THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.
(By Intercollegiate Press News Service)

SALEM TO ELECT STUDENT BODY OFFICERS

Salem College—Election of officers of the Student Self-Government Association for the coming year will be held on Monday, March 21st,
the Monday before the Easter holidays begin. The Student Council has submitted the names of the two girls it considers
the best-fitted candidates for president, Misses Sarah Boren, of Greensboro, and Gertrude Coble, of Burlington. Other names may be added
on petition to the council signed by 20 students. Excitement prevails, suspense is in the air; opinions are al-

One of the best-known ways of torturing one’s wife is to take company home to dinner unexpectedly. Judge Blank was
in the habit of doing this, and on one occasion he received a very neat little lesson from his wife.
The judge had arrived home with three legal friends, and that day the larder was unusually empty. His wife preserved
her equanimity, however, and managed somehow to get up a rather skimpy meal. But when the dinner was over, she
said, “Gentlemen, I wish to say one word. You have dined today with the judge. Will you do me the
honor of dining tomorrow with me?” The point was quickly appreciated, her invitation cordially accepted, and the next day they
all sat down to a dinner worthy of such an accomplished hostess—Boston Evening Transcript.

Reversal of Form.
Young Daughter—But, mother, I’m old enough now to wear short skirts!—New York World.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get
into such a business selling more than 137 Watkins Products direct to farmers if you own auto or team or
can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52 years
in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co. Department
C, Winona, Minnesota.

Davidson College Glee Club.

SPRING TERM OFFICERS INSTALLED IN BOTH LITERARY SOCIETIES

“Resolved, That the U. S. Should Adopt Some Form of Sales Tax,” Was the Subject Debated in Both

Phi Society.
March 3—Regular Debate.
Affirmative.
J. I. Knight
A. S. McIlwaine
R. M. McGirt

Negative.
C. W. Robinson
J. H. McRainey
E. N. Peeler

Extemporaneous Debate.
J. C. Wool
D. W. Roberts

A week ago last Thursday night, in the Phi Society, the officers for the spring term were installed after the
regular program. The president announced the subject for debate as “Resolved, That the United States should adopt some form of
sales tax.” The affirmative, led by McCain, defended the issue on the grounds that this would be more economical; that
this would equalize taxation; and that other countries have found it to be satisfactory. Fricker led the negative in opposing
a sales tax because: the present system is adequate; this tax would be unfair to the consumer; the existing system
hits the rich in proportion to their wealth. The decision was two for the negative.

In the extemporaneous debate Hadley Hilt argued that it was best for all concerned to leave the light on all
night. But Ralph Freeman proved conclusively that this was a bad policy both economically and psychologically. W. C. Smith gave
a running sketch of military training at Davidson from his Freshman year down to the present time. “The Race Problem
in the South,” by Henry W. Grady was very well delivered by J. L. McLean. After reports from retiring officers,
C. K. Brown was installed as president for the coming term. In his inaugural address he expressed his appreciation to
the society for the highest honor in the gift of the society, and also his determination to maintain the standards
set by the retiring officers. As soon as a few business matters were attended to, the society adjourned.

Eu. Society.
The regular meeting of the Eu. Society was somewhat delayed Saturday night on account of the movies and was not
called to order until 10 o'clock. The first part of the meeting was taken up in the installation of officers
for the third term, being the first exercise of this kind to be carried out under the new laws of
the present constitution. The vice-president escorted the incoming president, A. M. Mitchell, to the chair, where the oath of office
was administered by the retiring president, J. R. Boulware. Mitchell then made a short inaugural speech and the new officers
took the platform.

The question for debate, “Resolved, That the United States should adopt some form of sales tax,” was upheld on the
affirmative by W. C. Carr, J. W. Long and J. W. Cooper; and on the negative by W. T. Elliott,
C. F. Teag and F. L. Fraser. The debate showed good preparation by all of the speakers but very little
convincing argument was brought out on either side. The judges decided in favor of the negative.

The president announced that the Junior class had requested that every member of the society attend the Junior Speaking and
also the reception to be given in the gym Saturday night. Two medals are given each spring by the society.
The Essay medal is given to any member writing the best original essay. The Fresh-Soph Debater's medal is open only
to Freshmen and Sophomores and is given to the winner of the Fresh-Soph debate. Both of these contests will be
held in the near future and ye mighty orators and wielders of the pen would do well to keep them
in mind.

SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS JOINT MEETING WITH BOOKLOVERS’ CLUB

Ladies of Town Serve Refreshments to Literary Organization of the College.

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity and the Book Lovers’ Club held a joint meeting last Tuesday night in the Civic
League Hall. The literary program was carried out by members of Sigma Upsilon. Original poems were read by W. P.
Cumming and D. L. Mahood. D. M. Chalmers read several letters from a former Davidson student to a friend. These
letters gave a striking picture of Davidson College as it was in the earlier days of its existence. Prof. E.
J. Erwin read an interesting paper on the tendencies of modern poetry, givingAs examples, the poems that won first prizes
in a national contest held recently. J. M. Gaston read a short story. After the literary program, delightful refreshments, consisting
of a salad course, sandwiches, and coffee, prepared by members of the Book Lovers’ Club, were served. Music was furnished
throughout the evening by an orchestra composed of Miss Hattie Thompson, pianist; D. R. Freeman, cornet; C. E. Cunningham, violin,
and W. S. Buchanan, saxophone. This meeting, the first joint meeting of the two organizations, was a most enjoyable one,
and it is hoped that another will soon be arranged.

Up-to-Date Wedding Gifts.
“Well, what sort of wedding presents did you get, girlie—the usual assortment of berry spoons and pickle forks?”
“Not on your esteemed life. I got a sack of potatoes, four frozen fresh eggs, a peck of onions, and
a Liberty bond.”—Louisville Courier-Journal.

A little girl had been taken to church for the first time, and she was somewhat surprised by the general
style of the building, which was quite unlike anything she had previously seen.
“Whose house is this?” she asked.
“It is God’s house,” her mother answered.
The child took another critical view of the building.
“It is a very nice house,” she finally soliloquized. “We have never called here before."—Sel.

“Well, well,” said the pompous doctor, “and how has our little one been in the interim?”
“Oh,” replied the anxious mother, “she hasn't complained of that at all; it’s her stomach that pains her today.”—Ex.

Salem's “most modern convenience” is an A-1 tea room, which is appropriately called “Ye Orange Candle Waffle Shop.” In structure,
this shop is a cottage typical of Revolutionary days. The cool buff color of the inside walls blends with the
deep brown shade of the doors, and the dainty orange curtains and brown draperies at the windows are in perfect
harmony with the color scheme. The fire burning on the tiny hearth, with cozy green-covered box seats on either side,
beckons to each passerby. The shop is open every afternoon for two hours and until 10 o’clock Saturday night. Delicious
waffles, tea with buttered toast, hot chocolate with pure cream, and coffee, are found on the regular menu, but there
are “extras” Saturday night.

WAKE FOREST TO DEBATE THREE COLLEGES THIS SPRING
Wake Forest.—Wake Forest will debate three colleges this spring—Davidson, Baylor University, and Mercer University. The first of these series of
debates will be staged with Davidson and will probably be held in Raleigh or Greensboro, having as the subject, “Resolved,
That the United States should cancel the loans made to her allies during the Great War,” Wake Forest upholding the
negative. The second debate, with Baylor University, will be held in Chattanooga, Tenn., before the Southern Baptist Convention, and has
as its query, “Resolved, That presidential and vice-presidential candidates of the several parties should be nominated by a national direct
primary,” with the affirmative being maintained by Wake Forest. The last of the debates will be with Mercer and held
at Macon, Ga., with a question of “Resolved, That American industries should adopt the closed shop.”

UNIVERSITY SUMMER SESSION PROSPECTS GOOD
Chapel Hill—Recent developments justify the belief that the summer session, beginning June 21st of this year, will be a very
successful one. Mr. Walker, director, is at Harvard on leave, but will return in time to assume his former duties.
Carolina’s baseball schedule for 1921 includes a three-day stay in Gotham and games with Georgetown, V. M. I., Maryland, Fordham,
N. Y. U., C. C. of N. Y., and Swarthmore, besides a game with Virginia and several games with the
North Carolina colleges: Wake Forest, Trinity, State, Davidson, and Guilford.

CHURCH LEAGUE SECRETARY TO VISIT N.C. C. W.
Greensboro—Dr. Richard Wallace Hogue, Executive Secretary of the Church League for Industrial Democracy, spent March 6th, 7th, and 8th at
the N. C. College. He delivered three lectures and conducted conferences with individual students.

GUILFORD RAISES ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION FEE
Guilford—At a recent mass meeting of the young men, the annual fee of the Athletic Association was raised from five
to ten dollars. A delegation from Erskine College, Due West, S. C., including the president of the college, visited Guilford
last week to inspect the college dormitories.

Mary Garden, world-famed opera and movie star, recently said in regard to prohibition: “I hope the whole world goes dry.
Prohibition is a good thing for this country, and it will be a good thing for the world. I mean
it.”

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is
also a Public Notary and at your service.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lightning-like rapidity of service makes distance no disadvantage. Our prints represent the highest in photographic art. No extra charge for
glossy finish.
GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co., - - Atlanta, Georgia

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music, and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL-- NONE TOO LARGE
WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE
THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
L. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
A. G. BRENIZER, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
I. A. HENDERSON, Vice-President
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provide the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
