THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921

UNIVERSITY FRESHMEN
(Continued from page 1)

...of the field, but the last time the ball rested on the two-foot line when the final whistle sounded. Lake received a perfect pass from Crawford and romped over the white line for the last touchdown. The passing of Crawford was nothing short of spectacular; time and time again this athlete hurled the pigskin into the arms of a waiting end or back. Crawford's passing was the prettiest seen in many a moon. Moore ran the team in excellent shape, while Raker and Harris could be counted on for gains any time. McLaurin and Ballard showed that they are promising backs. Lake and Richards looked good on the wings and very few Fresh ran around them. The line was like a stone wall, Knight, Hamer, and Cox being the main supports. Grey looked good in the center position, while Hodgin played a nice game at guard.

Norman Shepard, of the '20 Davidson Varsity, refereed the game and did a nice job of it.

Gastonia Game.
Last Friday morning the Scrubs journeyed in automobiles to Gastonia, where they battled with the proteges of Coach Armstrong. The game started at 4 o'clock at the Fair Grounds just outside of the city. The speed and off-tackle plays, mixed with well-executed passes, enabled the Scrubs to walk away with the large end of a 34-0 score.

After the first ten minutes of play, Davidson was never in danger. The High School lads started a great offensive after receiving the ball on the kickoff. Passes from Hord to Falls and Garmise were very effective, but the Wildkittens rallied and took the offensive. Overton, passing from behind his own goal line, shot a beautiful pass to Moore, which netted 30 yards. From this time on the Scrubs were never in danger. The Scrubs were penalized several times for offsides and holding, but this only made the Wildkittens wilder. The field was extremely "heavy" and dusty, the dust rising from it as smoke from a battleground. This prevented much speed by either side; but the work of Baber and Jacobs stood out for the Gastonians, while the end runs of McComb, line plunging of Woods, and passing of Overton stood out for the Scrubs. The several passes from Overton to Phillips at critical times showed up exceedingly well.

After the game, the members of the squad were entertained in several homes. After supper, a reception was given at the High School in honor of the visiting team, which was enjoyed and appreciated by all.

Gastonia (0). Position. Davidson (34)
Ratchford, B. .......... LE .......... Phillips
Lowry (C) ............. LT .......... Briggs
Johnson ............... LG .......... Lewis
Young ................. C ........... Moore
Gann .................. RG .......... Pare
Underwood, C. ......... RT .......... Woods
Underwood, C. H. ...... RE .......... Smith
Hand .................. QB .......... McCombs

Score by periods:
Gastonia ............... 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson ............... 7 0 14 7—34

Substitutions—Gastonia: Parker for C. H. Underwood, C.; H. Underwood for Parker, Rutter for Parker, C. B. Moore for Baber, Baber for C. B. Moore, H. Ratchford for C. E. Underwood, C. Marshall for Grigg, Boyd for Johnson, Jacobs for Garmise, Collecta for Jacobs, Glenn for W. Smith, W. Smith for Glenn, Davis for Glenn, Johnson for Boyd, Bigger for Baber. Davidson: Robins for Overton, Overton for Robins, Roddy for Moore, Weeks for Young, Ford for Lewis.

Officials—Referee: Sims (U. N. C.); umpire: Julian (Davidson); head linesman: Keenler (Tenn.)
Time of periods: 12 minutes.

In the September issue of The Guaranty News, there is an article by Leopold A. Chambliss, '18, on the Literature of Fiduciary Activities. The Guaranty News is published by the Guaranty Club of New York, which club is composed of officers and clerks of the Guaranty Trust Company of New York. Chambliss has for some time been connected with this firm and he seems to be making good.

Rev. J. W. Lafferty, 1883, has recently removed to Rome, Ga., from Port Gibson, Miss.RRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRRARRRKK

STETSON SHOES

THE STETSON SHOPS, Inc.
NEW YORK CITY

A full line of samples. Not for two days, or three, but all the time.

Here every week a verse of

“Away we step with joy and pep
With ease and comfort too
For it’s good for one’s ‘sole’ to take a stroll
On the road of ‘THE STETSON SHOE’.”

W. J. COOPER
JAMES McCUTCHEN
WATTS

“The Stetson Road.”

Why Is Iron Magnetic?

A horse-shoe magnet attracts a steel needle. But why?

We don’t know exactly. We do know that electricity and magnetism are related. In dynamos and motors we apply electro-magnetic effects. All our power-stations, lighting systems, electric traction and motor drives, even the ignition systems of our automobiles, depend upon these magnetic effects which we use and do not understand. Perhaps if we understood them we could utilize them much more efficiently. Perhaps we could discover combinations of metals more magnetic than iron.

The Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company investigate magnetism by trying to find out more about electrons and their arrangement in atoms. X-rays have shown that each iron atom consists of electrons grouped around a central nucleus—like planets around an infinitesimal sun. X-rays enable us to some extent to see into the atom and may at last reveal to us what makes for magnetism.

This is research in pure science, and nothing else. Only thus can real progress be made. Studies of this kind are constantly resulting in minor improvements. But some day a discovery may be made which will enable a metallurgist to work out the formula for a magnetic alloy which has not yet been cast, but which will surely have the properties required. Such a result would be an achievement with tremendous possibilities. It would improve all electric generators, motors, and magnetic devices.

In the meantime the continual improvement in electrical machinery proceeds, in lesser steps. These summed up, constitute the phenomenal progress experienced in the electrical art during the past twenty-five years.

General Electric Company
Schenectady, N. Y.
General Office

Real Cold Weather is Not Far Off

You Will Need a Warm, Stylish Overcoat

When you are ready you will find it here. The man who knows where to go for his clothes—who knows where he can choose with confidence and assurance that his purchase will be right, is headed for this store.

Suits - Hats
Overcoats - Shirts
Raincoats - Sox, Etc.

Make This Store Your Headquarters

BROWN'S Inc.
34 South Tryon
The Home of Kuppenheimer Good Clothes

PARKER-GARDNER CO.

Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records

We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN

New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store.

An Unusual Display at $35 $40 $45

Featuring the new 1-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes

HATS - FURNISHINGS - SHOES

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N.C.

SUCCESS

Many college men are going into Life insurance as a profession and are making good. The Southern Life and Trust Company is a Southern institution, operating in Southern territory. The Multiple line of this Company will enable you to tie up with a going concern and get you fitted into the line of work to which you will be best suited. Write us.

Southern Life and Trust Company
A. W. McAlister, President
Arthur Watt, Secretary
H. B. Gunter, Third Vice-President and Agency Manager
Capital $1,000,000.00