THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1921.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

An Eye Opener.
The day wore on.
What did it wear?
The close of day.

Bill Cooper to Bugs Robinson: “Bugs, you are a math stud, eh?”

Bugs: “Yes.”

Bill: “Well, why won't a size 15 collar go on over a size 7 hat?”

From appearances Sunday morning, the Paper Hangers’ Union held meetings in Georgia, Watts, and Rumple.

“Press Forward, Davidson,” was the cry heard from a certain Sophomore at a recent football game.

White’s Studio representative trying to sell Frank McLeod a dozen pictures:

Frank: “I haven't any use for a dozen pictures.”

Rep.: “Well, you can put them up in the stable and let the mule bray at them.”

Red Baker goes to a barber shop to get an egg shampoo and scorched omelet odors could be noticed for
a mile.

Soph. “Alkali” Jones noticed standing when the Fresh were told to sing at the P. C. game.

Special.
Slink Black goes to Bug Lab.

Corp. Hughes: “Jaybird, how do you keep your hands so smooth?”

Jaybird Butler: “I sleep in my gloves.”

Corp: “Do you sleep in your hat, too?”

John G.: “I’m looking for something to do.”

Matt McC. (leaving the scene): “Well, you can’t do me.”

“I have a fearful headache,” she complained.

“I have heard of aching voids before,” he cruelly remarked.

Foolish Questions.

What size collar does a neck of land wear?

How long is a string?

How high is up?

Why is a duck?

How far is near?

How many steps are there in the stairs?

The following was heard at a certain boarding house:

“What have we got for breakfast?”

“Hash.”

“Good, we haven’t had any since supper.”

As a closing number, Mr. Buster Lung will render that little song, “It’s a mean old doggie that won't scratch
his mother’s fleas.”

Well Read.
Prof. Erwin: “Mr. Wright, have you read Romeo and Juliet yet?”

Soc.: “No, sir; I haven’t read Romeo yet but I have read Juliet twice.”

What happens when two Fords meet? Dodge Bros.

The Greek III class gave Dr. Harding a half-holiday Friday.

A book agent from Huntington, W. Va., visited Mr. Harold Covington for the weekend.

Rod: “Is that a player piano?”

She: “No, the pianist is so modest he is hiding under the soft pedal.”

“Cab” Garrett was heard referring to a cash register as a Jew piano.

A young man in Charlotte was heard to say as a policeman entered, “Here comes Little Boy Blue.”

We would like to know if:

You can call a Georgia undertaker a Southern planter?

You can call a pillow a knapsack?

You can say that a young man who marries an heiress has a capital wife?

You can call a mail carrier’s uniform a suit of mail?

On last Saturday evening many of the young people of Davidson spent a very enjoyable evening in the home of
Miss Virginia Shoemaker at a birthday party given by Miss Shoemaker, assisted by Mr. P. D. Miller, of the Senior
class.

A Gateway—Electrical

By a forty-foot gateway bounded by two brick pilasters and ornamental lamps, but it is unlike any other gateway in
the entire world.

For back of it is the General Electric Company’s main office building, accommodating 2300 employees. And just next door is
its main laboratory with the best equipment for testing, standardizing, and research at the command of capable engineers. Then down
the street a mile long—are other buildings where thousands of electrical products are made by the General Electric Company’s workers.

Through this gate messages and representatives from a score of other factories and over fifty branch offices come and go
every hour—an endless chain of coordinated activities carrying on and enlarging the scope of over a quarter century’s work for
the betterment of mankind.

What a story this gate would tell, if it could, of the leaders of the electrical industry and of ambassadors
from other industries and institutions—and from foreign lands. The story would be the history of electric lighting, electric transportation, electrified
industrials, and electricity in the home.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
GOOD MORNING

Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner—vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor—peculiar to
real North Carolina cooks—served in home style.

Meal Hours
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8

Every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart

New Central Hotel
Second Floor

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits

Designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by
this store.

An Unusual Display at
$35 $40 $45

Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home

Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

LIFE INSURANCE—A PROFESSION

The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to
real success in life insurance salesmanship.

Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”

Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C.
