THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Bailey, J. C. King, A. D. Ogden, D. H. Bitzer, R. Lacy, T. A. Ormond, A. C. Cooper, W. J. Long, C. G. Phillips, J. W. Cunningham, H. C. Mahood, D. L. Sprunt, J. Davidson, R. F. Mitchell, A. M. Summers, A. Gamble, W. A. Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D. Jones, J. R. Lowrance, D. W. Wool, J. C. Matthews, E. A. Nash, J. S. Curry, C. H. Long, C. Wool.

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

“To be trusted is sometimes a greater compliment than to be loved.”

Do not forget the New Junior Speaking. Each man in the student body is a part of this occasion, and it is up to him whether this new style speaking shall be in vogue hereafter.

It is said that the interest of the students in the Open Forum indicates whether a publication is a live one or not. Constructive criticism is welcomed at all times.

FIVE DAY WORK WEEK.

“In Ye Goode Olde Days” several years ago, the weekly schedules of classes of the Davidson students were graced by the presence of one holiday per week, on Monday. There are many among us who would be gratified indeed if the faculty would see fit to readopt this plan instead of the full six-day week in recitations in force at present. The week as it is now is just one day after another with the same work all the time, with no let-ups and no holidays, as Sunday would hardly be classed as such. Many students have a full day of four classes and lab on Monday and in order to prepare for them Sunday night at least must be devoted to that purpose. That is probably one explanation why the old custom of visiting the homes of the faculty Sunday night has fallen off so in recent years. Sunday must be used for study the same as any other day. To be sure the first period on Monday is vacant, but who can properly get up a full day's work in one period? What a sense of contentment and satisfaction could be ours if we knew that at least one day of the week could be our own with no classes or work of any kind to do. It would provide a time for more fellowship and social activities among the students and we could get together and know each other as we cannot do now, when the other fellow has to be working if you do not. But you say it would throw that work on other days and would therefore be undesirable. It may be that it might put an additional class or two or three on other working days, but that would not be an insurmountable hardship. The average American works only when pushed to it, and if we had a little more work on other days it might prove an inspiration to better work and better marks. If we only have a class or so to prepare for the next day, we are very apt to let them slip till the last minute and probably never touch them at all. But if we are confronted with the task of getting up four tickets we will do it and do it right. The average student’s schedule is not so hard but that it could hold an additional class or so on some of the proposed five working days without undue strain.

Read the exchanges in the Library. Requests are being made of all the college publications in the South by the University of Richmond to send delegates to Richmond in April for the purpose of organizing a Southern Intercollegiate Press Association. The object of the Association is to raise and maintain the standard of Southern College publications. The movement is a significant one and will doubtless accomplish great results. Richmond University is to be praised for beginning such a needed undertaking—Richmond Collegian.

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.
(By Intercollegiate Press News Service)

ELON SENIORS PRESENT CLOCK AND BELL SYSTEM TO COLLEGE.
Elon College—The class of ‘21 has presented to the college a modern clock and bell system. The parts have arrived and a great part of the work of installation has been done. All of the electrical work is being done by the Senior Physics class. The system is electrically operated. The master clock is in the Administration building; smaller clocks and gongs are in each dormitory. A very large gong will be placed in the summer house on the campus. The historic college bell will not be used hereafter except on Sundays and for irregular occasions.

DR. W. H. FRASER ACCEPTS QUEENS COLLEGE PRESIDENCY
Queens College—Dr. W. H. Fraser, of Belhaven College, in Mississippi, has accepted the presidency of Queens College. He will arrive in June to take up his duties. Dr. Fraser is a well-known educator in the South and will be heartily welcomed at Queens. The ministers and elders of the Presbyterian churches of Charlotte and vicinity entertained the Queens College faculty Thursday evening, February 24th, in the parlors of the First Presbyterian Church. Queens was represented by three students at the Student Volunteer Conference at Trinity the weekend of the 25th.

On last Tuesday afternoon Coach Metzger gathered his Gamecocks together for the first spring practice. About 25 men responded to the call and the number is increasing daily. Included in the list are several new men who promise to be mainstays on the 1920 Gamecock eleven. As several old men will not return to the University this fall there will necessarily be some changes in the old line-up. By reason of this early training Coach Metzger is being able to train some very valuable material to take the places of the stars who are passing out. The results of the practice so far are very gratifying and the possibilities of turning out a winning eleven this fall are becoming greater each day. Practice will continue daily for the next two or three weeks.—Gamecock

Furman University loses one of her star backfield men in Lee Rhame, who has recently been appointed to the United States Naval Academy. Rhame's appointment becomes effective early in June and the fast halfback will not be able to feature in the Purple Hurricane’s anticipated successful season of 1921.—Furman Hornet.

We were riding on a street car the other day,

GUILFORD WINS DOUBLE VICTORY IN DEBATESGuilford College—On February 19th, the Guilford College debating teams won a double victory in a dual debate with Hampden-Sidney College. The question debated was, “Resolved, That, waiving all questions as to transportation, the Federal Government should own and operate all the coal mines in the United States, constitutionality granted.” Guilford upheld the affirmative. Its representatives secured a two to one decision in the debate at Guilford, while the team debating at Hampden-Sidney won a unanimous decision.

We are glad to see Davidson putting out a wrestling team. Every new enterprise means another step toward a Greater Davidson. The support of the students should be given unreservedly to the men composing this team.

S. H. Bradley has gone to his home in Sumter, S. C., after spending two weeks in the infirmary here on account of rheumatism. George McCutcheon accompanied him as far as Charlotte.

It is growing to be the popular custom at many institutions to grant Easter Holidays. We do not care for this to be of long duration so far as Davidson is concerned, but we do want Easter Monday as a day of rest from classroom work.

The exercises held in honor of George Washington were a success both as to the address and musical program. Above all else, however, the occasion clearly demonstrated to everyone that the College Band is a live and up-to-date organization. The popular impression of the quality of the band gained from its showing on the drill grounds is not a fair one. Under the leadership of D. R. Freeman, this musical organization has reached the point in its development where it can render first-class selections in a manner that reflects only honor upon the director. Too much credit cannot be given Mr. Freeman for his untiring efforts in making the band worthy of the name of Davidson. It is an organization that means much to our college in ways too numerous to mention. It is the best “pep rouser” on the campus, and as such, it should have our whole-hearted support.

A CHALLENGE.

The time has come when it is necessary that definite steps should be taken by right-thinking students regarding the modern dance question. No longer is the ballroom a place for innocent recreation, but it has deteriorated into a rendezvous where “polite society dissipation” is at its premium. It has almost reached the point of becoming one of our absorbing social problems. Not only is drinking running riot, but what is worse, many girls, frequently half-dressed, are engaging with partners still under the influence of liquor in those modern dances conducive to impure thoughts and sensations. We tremble to think of the inevitable results. It is our belief, to speak it plainly, that a decent girl cannot afford to attend dances where such practices are permitted. Parents, especially the mothers, do not seem to sense the peril concealed in this amusement in its present state of degradation. Should not the college men of America then rise to meet the issue? Has our ideal of womanhood and manhood reached the point where we no longer consider modesty as essential? Surely this cannot be. Our duty, therefore, is plain. It should be our high purpose not to countenance or gaze with indifference upon the evils of modern dancing, but to do all in our power to elevate this amusement to a refined plane. In this way, we can render a great service in maintaining the American standard of clean manhood and pure womanhood. Davidson College happily does not have to contend with this form of recreation on her campus, but we do know that some of her students are like other people in that they attend dances when at home or elsewhere. It is to these that we make the appeal that they enlist in the fight to raise dancing to its former standard of decency. This should be the common cause of the college men of America, for in their hands is an influence and power that can accomplish this great service for our present-day society. As true Southern gentlemen, the students of Davidson can only enlist on the side of decency and modesty.

Every man on the campus appreciates the work of the “Y.” Especially is this so when it comes to the “Y” moving pictures. The pictures this year have been exceedingly good; it is a pleasure to fork out the necessary “two bits.” But here of late, an annoying practice on the part of some has grown up. The promiscuous noises made by the small-town boys are referred to. They do not seem to be open to suggestion in this matter, for they continue despite the protests of those in charge. The simplest way to cut short their career of noise would be to refuse them admission. But that would be uncharitable and very few of the fellows would favor such a course except as a last resort. The only other feasible remedy is almost as simple—don’t turn on the lights between reels, for it seems that the few minutes of light put new life into them. Were you ever in a cinema theatre where the lights were turned on at periodic intervals? Hardly. Why then, is there need of doing it here? Of course, for a while, several of the more hard-headed of the students will call for lights, but if no attention is paid to them, they will soon subside. How about it, fellows? The “Y” is giving us the best pictures that are put out; are we to let our enjoyment of them be endangered when a simple little remedy will right matters? If by chance the darkness does not phase them, sterner measures are in order.

There are 1,176 higher institutions of learning in the United States. This list includes all the universities, colleges, professional schools, colleges of agricultural, mechanical, technological and mining science, normal schools, theological seminaries, and junior colleges.

A writer on hygiene subjects declares that a young man should kiss a girl either on the right or left cheek. As there seems to be some uncertainty as to the proper cheek to kiss, most young men will continue to hesitate between the two.—Ex.

She—“Why did they call a foul on our man?”
Escort—“For holding.”
She—“Tee hee; he’s just like the rest of the Furman men.”

The Civic League has appointed Thursday, March 3rd, as clean-up day.

EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE PRICES
4c 5c 6c 6c
Developing any size roll 10c
We use glossy paper unless otherwise requested.
Cash with order or work will be mailed C.O.D.
Send negative for sample print free.
Vest Pocket 2 1-453 14 2 1-224 1.2 4 1-436 1.2
Charlotte Photo Company

Every tobacco tastes better in a WDC Pipe. Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected French briar makes it so. Add to this the super craftsmanship of the Demuth workers, and you'll not wonder that we claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any good dealer.
Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES