THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

WILDKITTENS AND CLEMSON SCRUBS TIE HERE 7-7.

The Wildkittens brought the 1921 football campaign to a fitting close by outfighting and outplaying the Clemson Reserves in a hot and interesting game last Saturday. The count was 7-7 when Meb Long ended the fracas, an appropriate finale to a season of more than the usual number of deadlocks. The showing of the “All-Americans” seemed to please Coach Grey, who with the student body saw the Kittens in action for the first time. The Kittens convinced one and all that there will be no dearth of Varsity material next year.

Doped to lose, the lighter Presbyterians upset all prophecies in a manner that has become a habit with Davidson teams this year. Although the field was muddy the backfields managed to keep their feet well and to gain consistently. Crawford’s tossing of the wet spheroid was only equaled in its accuracy by the skill of Hendrix and Richards in bagging the spirals. De Armon and Crawford demonstrated that they have an abundance of drive and McAllister’s work in backing up the line was little short of superb.

Clemson’s touchdown came after a sweeping end run by the lightning-fast Turnipseed, and indeed this is the only way in which they could hope to tally. For the Kitten forward line knew their jelly and sure strutted it. Within their 10-yard border they often threw for losses the powerful Emanuel who starred against Centre and threw a scare into Georgia Tech by scoring a touchdown on a line play.

Davidson’s score came on the first play of the second quarter. Regen’s long arms got in the way of a punt and a series of line plays soon carried the ball to the 3-yard line, from which McAllister squeezed his way through center for a touchdown. Captain Richards accommodated by hooting goal.

The short fourth period, although devoid of scoring, proved to be the most interesting of the game. Early in this frame Zeigler blocked a punt and recovered on Davidson’s 16-yard line. A pass gave Clemson first down on the 5-yard mark. Four line plays produced but four yards and the ball changed hands. Not satisfied with this for a thrill, Turnipseed started another by fumbling Regen’s punt, Richards recovering. Hendrix ticked off 14 and 20 yards on two sallies around end, and the Kittens soon had the ball on the 2-yard mark. But Clemson held and they failed to score.

Turnipseed and Emanuel proved to be the two best ground gainers for Clemson, while Harvey and Vinekley played the best games in the visitor’s line.

The line-up:

FINAL FOOTBALL CONTEST LOST.
(Continued from page 1)

brought the ball to midfield. McFadden punted out of bounds on Furman’s 20-yard line.

Second Quarter.

McManaway gained 20 yards on exchange of punts and it was Furman’s ball on her 41-yard line. Rhame’s 18-yard run and a trick forward pass good for 25 yards soon resulted in another touchdown. The scrub backfield was sent in and they showed up well. In the short time remaining they advanced the skin to Furman’s 20-yard line only to lose the ball on downs. McManaway punted out of danger as the half ended.

Third Quarter.

Davidson received and drove well into Furman’s territory. McManaway intercepted a pass and punted to the Wildcats’ 30-yard line. Another spurt again carried the ball to midfield, and McFadden, forced to punt, dropped a beauty on Furman’s 6-yard line. The Hurricane then worked its way 94 yards for a touchdown. The Davidson line fought gamely under their goal-posts but Waters scored on fourth down. Davidson again received and returned to midfield where Rhame intercepted a pass just before the quarter ended.

Fourth Quarter.

Furman’s sustained march of 54 yards produced another touchdown and McLeod kicked his fourth goal. The scrub backfield went in and again received the kick-off. They seriously threatened the Purple goal line, planting the ball on the 5-yard line. Just when a touchdown looked certain Rip Major set them back five yards for being offsiders. Undaunted they again drove the ball to the 4-yard mark. On fourth down a pass to Schenck was made and Furman took the ball on her 20-yard line. McManaway’s punt went over Long’s head and the ball rolled to the 26-yard line. Passes brought the ball to Furman’s 30-yard line, and a punt gave the oval to the Baptists on their 3-yard mark. Long fumbled a punt and Furman recovered only to punt again just as the game ended.

Line-up:

Davidson: Position: Furman:
Bradley --------- LE --------- Davies, C.
Buyck ----------- LT --------- Davis, S.
Sanford --------- LG --------- Brice
Hammett --------- C --------- Fields
Maner ----------- RG --------- La Far (C)
Wolfe ----------- RT --------- Clarke
Faison ---------- RE --------- Rives
McManaway (C) --- QB --------- Schenck
Foteat ---------- LH --------- Shepherd
Rhame ---------- RH --------- Moore
Waters ---------- FB --------- McFadden

Score by quarters:
Davidson 0 0 0 0 - 0
Furman 7 7 7 7 - 28Scoring—Touchdowns, Poteat (2), Waters (2). Goals from touchdowns, McLeod (4). 

Substitutions—Davidson: Erwin for Moore; Bethea for Schenck; Long for McFadden; McAllister for Shepherd; Allen for La Far; Sorrells for Clarke; Schenck for Davis, C.; Hamer for Clark; Sorrells for Allen. Furman: Howard for Buyck; Cox for Lanford; Dobson for Hammett. Referee: Major (Auburn). Umpire: Walker (Davidson). Time of Quarters: 15 minutes.

SPECIAL TRAIN CARRIED SUPPORTERS TO FURMAN

Thanksgiving morning bright and early the student body was awakened by the ringing of the bell, indicating that it was high time to get ready to make the trip to Greenville for the Furman game, via the special train. The sun was just beginning to make its appearance in the eastern skies when the boys began to rush for the station after hearing the whistle of the monster engine which was to carry them to THE GAME of the season. Stopping at the little store on the corner for a cup of coffee, a sandwich, etc., they continued their way and found seats in the cars which were waiting.

Promptly at seven, the special began moving in the direction of Charlotte, but as many of the boys were seen sprinting across the campus it was decided to wait a few minutes for these tardy ones. At last we were off! It seemed scarcely a space of ten minutes or so until we had reached the Queen City, where the train stopped for a few minutes to take on more passengers from that point. Then we were off again, this time speeding along the main line of the Southern towards our goal. We halted a few minutes only at Gastonia, taking on a few passengers from that point.

The time was spent by those on board in many and varied ways. Some chose to harmonize, whereas some played “set back” etc., others of the studious class chose to study, and the remainder followed the band to the rear car where it played almost without stopping from Charlotte to Greenville. Arriving in Spartanburg, it was necessary for the special to wait for a short period of time. Cheer Leader Story promptly mounted the engine, and all of the Wildcat supporters gathered around him and under his leadership yelled their heads off almost for their team, not forgetting in their enthusiasm, however, to give three “Hi-s” for Spartanburg. After the yelling came the singing of O! Davidson. Then some of the thoughtful ones found some chalk and marked up the coaches so that all outsiders would know of the “Wildcat Special.”

When the train reached Greenville, a rush was made to get tickets to the game, then everyone hurried (Continued on page 7)

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486

Davidson (7) Position Clemson (7)
Richards (C) RE Finckley
Williams RT Emanual
Davis RG Seigler
McIlwaine C Neely
Gourley LG Harvey
Clark LT Hollis
Shepherd LE Deeter
Ray QB Williams
McAllister RH Robinson
Crawford LH Turnipseed

Touchdowns: McAllister, Turnipseed. Goals: Richards, Robinson. Substitutes: Davidson, Cox for Hamer. Clemson, Hallahan for Ray; Emanual for Zeigler; Warren for Turnipseed. Referee: Long (Carolina); Umpire: White (Davidson); Linesman: Christenbury (Davidson); Time of quarters: 15 minutes.

221 W. Trade St.
Central Hotel Cigar Stand
Selwyn Hotel Cigar Stand
Joe D. Smith, Mgr.
The Observer
B. R. Cates, Manager

Printing and Engraving
Incorporated
33 South Church Street
Printing House Building
Charlotte, N. C.

HATS
Designed Especially for DAVIDSON MEN
Red and Black Lining with a Small Red and Black Bow Inserted in the Bow of the Band
MELLON’S

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Delicious and Refreshing
Mrs. Mable B. Deveraux, Mgr.
East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works

Fraternity Stationery
Come in and look it over.
ART SHOP
EVERSHARP PENCILS
Also Plain and College Seal Stationery
WAHL FOUNTAIN PENS
MAKE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Postage prepaid on Mail Orders
W. I. VAN NESS & CO.
21 N. Tryon
Phone 744
Orders taken for engraved visiting cards

W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

YOUR FURNISHINGS!
Where do you buy them?
We can fill your needs at POPULAR PRICES
A. Pittle
Opposite the Southern Mfg. Club
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
Fall Sports
Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium
Outfitting: Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. You know them.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Phone 902