THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921.

In the country in all probability, and had not much difficulty in disposing of Heizer in the match immediately preceding this one. After a rest, he came back to the mat to meet Carter, who entered crippled as a result of an injury to his shoulder received the night before at Washington and Lee. However, “Nick” deserves much credit for his work and the fine spirit which he displayed. It was nip and tuck, Carter losing the decision by a scant four seconds. Then upon resuming the fray, both were so exhausted that fight was impossible and “Nick” was forced to succumb by a fall. The heavyweight match was the last number on the program and was the culmination of the evening's entertainment. C. M. Clarke endeavored nobly to throw his man, but failed and was himself subjected to it in two minutes and a half. Though losing the match, “Jap’s” charges are to be commended for the fight which they put up. With more training and experience, they should hold their own against all comers.

Mr. J. A. Brady, of Statesville, spent Wednesday night on the hill as the guest of Mrs. L. Brady. He has just returned from Japan on a visit to his son, Rev. Harper Brady, ‘12.

“Bob” Jones, ‘13, spent this past week visiting his brother, Guy Jones.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY,
AGENTS FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Established 1878
A. & Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Inside Information on Delegation Movements.

Roxie Shaw forgot he was on his way to the Laymen’s Convention and purchased his usual whiz-bang. Going to a drug store in Greenville for refreshments, Pierce Ormand chose a ‘Beautiful Doll,’ Johnnie Curry ate a ‘Perfect Love,’ and Danner Mahood, not to be outdone, ordered a Jinrickshaw. The soda-jerker scratched his head for a moment, and suddenly seized by an inspiration, he phoned for a Ford. Roxie Shaw consumed a ‘G. W. C. Dream,’ and is reported to have spent a restless night. Tom Lowry and D. Moody Chalmers indulged in “Heavenly Hash” and later amused themselves and townspeople by playing leap-frog with a trash can on Main street.

A motion was made, seconded, and thirded that the delegation take in a picture show. Joe McCaskill volunteered to lead the way to a good one which he had seen the week before. Following Joe, the delegation took in the show of his selection, namely, ‘Silk Hosiery.’ Joe saw the picture through three times and only left then because the show was over for the night.

Going to his temporary abode for a few hours rest in the arms of Morpheus, Pierce Ormand was greeted by a vivacious young canine. The result of this unexpected meeting was that Pierce spent the night, not in the arms of Morpheus, but in the cross-arms of a friendly telephone pole. Pierce claims he wasn’t treed. Maybe not, but he was poled anyway. “I often spend the night up a telephone pole,” explained Pierce when questioned. “I find the night air so refreshing.” Pierce at least found his lodging house; he has that much on Senator Culbreth who strolled the streets and tells us that there is not much to be seen in Greenville when it's dark.

Charlie McCaskill discovered a park while rambling around. He volunteered to show it to the delegation. Everyone enjoyed going through the cemetery as much as possible, and all agreed that they didn’t want to park in Charlie's park.

Roxie falls in love; when, where, and how nobody knows. The effect on Roxie was that he mistook himself for a gay young butterfly and behaved accordingly. He flitted daintily down Main street in a fruitless search for nectar. Roxie’s antics were arrested only in time to keep from being arrested.

Returning to Davidson, Jimmy McKeldin and Jitney Seizer, who had been convinced that they were black with sin, tried to enter the negro coach. Timely interference on the part of other members of the delegation averted this catastrophe. Only after a mirror was produced from Rooster McFadden’s vanity case could these gentlemen be convinced of their error.

Franklin Fricker behaved very well throughout the trip. Only once did it become necessary to administer correction.

Let’s Hope So.
Culbreth—“Colonel X will be buried this afternoon.”
Fricker—(excitedly)—“Is he dead?” This Week's Bone. Joe McCaskill—“Some old farmer said M— was a prize-winning wrestler.” No, Joe, Farmer Burns is not a rustic. Don't Horse Yourself. Syllabuses is just as correct as Syllabi. Laugh With Us. Dwight Chalmers:—“and he tells all kinds of jokes like, if all the autos were one big auto and if all the little pigs were one big pig.” We Would Too. Dwight Chalmers said that if he lived there he Woodleaf too.

Among those students going to sleep in chapel last Sunday were: Rusty Alexander, Tink Taylor, Fred Smith, Guy Jones, Chas. McCaskill, Bill Roberts, Jazz Brown, Dick Richards, Junebug Price, Sam Story. (The faculty names were censored.)

Brain Work. Sgt.-Mjr. Cooper gives ‘Right Squads’ from column of squads.

Society. Mr. J. Eris Cassell of Rock Hill is again a visitor on the Hill. Mr. Cassell is a co-ed at Winthrop College. The second-hand book man has come and gone. Watch out for the ‘lost’ notices in chapel.

But It’s Only a Local Freight. Mickey McCoy emits voluminous snores. Prof.—“Someone seems to think this is a Pullman car.”

Congratulations. Burney speaks to Woodleaf audience. During his discourse, he refers to “we parents.”

Agreed. T. B. Clyburn affirms that he will never go bear hunting for fear that he might find one.

CAMPUSISMS. Charlie Tuller is spending a few days in Atlanta. Jim Sprunt attended the Laymen’s Convention in Greenville, S.C., held last week. Eris Cassell spent the weekend in Rock Hill, and Bob Davidson in Chester. “Nappy” Davis has just returned from a wedding, held in Winston, in which he officiated as usher. B. M. Hamer, as usual, spent the weekend off the hill, and “Izzie” Thames journeyed down to Converse last Friday. Pitts Douglass, “Hard-rock” Shaw, Charlie Vance, “Sprat” Bailey, and McGeachy went to Statesville last Saturday. As they tell it, the train left them and they had to walk back. Sam Burgess and Jim Spillman spent last Sunday afternoon in Cornelius. Those who added their names to the ledger of the Infirmary last week were: McIlwaine, Doggett, H. M. Morris, E. H. Tufts, George Mauze, R. J. Knight, Harry Wyman, Harry Sample, L. D. Elkins, and Julius Barr.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS DR. MOORE. The Ministerial students were fortunate last Sunday evening to have with them Dr. Moore, who spoke to them on the advantages derived from Theological Training. He told of the congeniality of seminary students and the fellowship that exists there, giving as his reasons that all were there for the same purpose in their hearts, and preparing for a calling that was above all. He impressed upon them the fact that if one ever heard the call of the ministry, never to depart from it. If he did, he was stepping down. He explained very thoroughly what was taught in the seminary and advised the boys by all means to take full advantage of the courses offered in the seminaries and prepare themselves to be ministers indeed. He further showed the folly in trying to combine collegiate work along with the work in Theological institutions, as one did not have time to do both and they would miss the full value of each.

For nearly a century, Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information, address The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President, Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary, Columbia, S.C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO. Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records. We send records on approval. Write for special service plan. Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE. A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS. All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable. W. McK. FETZER, Chapel Hill, N.C. J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director, Davidson, N.C. WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG.

A COMPLETE LINE OF SPRING CLOTHES. Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves. THE TATE-BROWN CO., CHARLOTTE.

PROGRAM. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, March 17th, 18th, and 19th. OVERTURE Academy Orchestra, Direction Charles H. Shonland. PATHE NEWS. ROLIN COMEDY. PAUL GEORGE, A Kitchen Musicale. AVIS BENNETT AND GEORGE LEE, “Vaudeville Etiquette.” BOBBY BROOKS AND LOUISE PHILSON, “Personality.” CHUNG WAH FOUR, China’s only Quartette in Harmony. GREAT COBAN AND COMPANY, Wonder Workers From the Land of Cherry Blossoms.