12 ———— PARENTAGE AND HOME LIFE BIG HELP TO WILSON (Continued from page 3)

call was accepted and he served this church for about twelve years. His work in Augusta covers the exciting and tragic period of the Civil War and the hardly less trying years immediately following that unhappy struggle. The Wilsons identified themselves with the cause of the Confederacy and it was in Dr. Wilson’s church that the Southern Assembly was organized in 1860. He

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

Dr. Harding narrated a bit of unpublished history about Dr. Wilson. When he came to live in North Carolina, as pastor at Wilmington, he was not long in winning popularity in the Synod, at which thing one does not wonder, if all of his utterances were as neat and as pleasing as this compliment he paid the Tarheels when on one occasion he was called on for a speech. He said that living first in Virginia and then later in South Carolina he had been taught to believe that the upper strata and lower strata of territory, embracing these three states, was very rich and worth while, but that the intermediate strata—well, it was a composition of quite inferior character, fibre of much coarser type,—but that, since he had gotten into the midst of this intermediate layer and sampled its quality, he had reached the conclusion that his former information was nothing short of mis-information and that Mr. Wilson for his assistance.”

At the end of the year he was elected corresponding secretary for the ensuing term, and on June 19, he was appointed one of eleven to “attend to fixing up the hall.” On May 22 and 29 he was excused from the meetings because he was ill. Five other absences appear, two of which were excused. He himself was elected stated clerk of this body in 1865 and filled the office for nearly forty years, the length of his period of service being in itself a proof of the ability and efficiency with which he performed the duties involved.

Dr. Wilson’s pastorate in Augusta was marked by an ever-increasing popularity, influence, and power as a preacher, presbyter, man of letters and citizen of distinction. His home was a center of culture and refinement and here were often entertained the most prominent figures in the pulpits, seminary professorships, and councils of the Southern Assembly; not to speak of other guests of high standing in state and church. Professor William E. Dodd gives a very graphic and engaging, and at times diverting picture of the life of the Wilsons in Augusta. The several social strata to which the pastor must tactfully accommodate his life, the handsome church building, with its stately elms without and its quiet family pews and carpeted aisles within, the stalwart Calvinist Dr. Wilson with his strict Sabbath views and practices, his imperative and compelling family altar, his fear and dread lest his children—Woodrow among them—might not prove to be of the elect, and his steady and unceasing effort to train the boy into a life that by its uprightness and correctness would make it clear that he was among the chosen, and further still this preacher's home, the gathering place of the great men of the new Southern Assembly, Dr. James Woodrow, the noted scientist, his brother-in-law, Dr. Thornwell, Dr. B. M. Palmer, Dr. Adger, Dr. Moses Hoge and others, are all features of the picture that Dr. Dodd’s facile and vigorous pen presents.

Dr. Wilson was called to Columbia Theological Seminary in 1870 to fill the chair of pastoral and evangelistic theology, a work for which he was admirably fitted by natural gifts, personal aptitudes and tastes and by general scholastic attainments. He, however, remained at Columbia for only four years, accepting a call to the First Church, Wilmington, N. C. This was his last pastorate but not his last work. After laboring in Wilmington for quite a period of years, he accepted an appointment to the chair of theology in the Southwestern Presbyterian University, at Clarksville, Tenn., and taught in this institution until increasing infirmity of years compelled his resignation.

In the early ’90s Dr. Wilson went to Princeton to live with his son, Woodrow Wilson, who had recently been elected to the chair of jurisprudence and politics in Princeton College. Here he died in the eighty-first year of his age. His body was laid to rest in the Presbyterian churchyard of Columbia, by that of his wife, whose death had occurred some years earlier.

Dr. Wilson was very generally recognized as one of the brilliant and scholarly preachers of his day. The writer has been told by his father, Rev. Dr. E. H. Harding, who knew Dr. Wilson rather intimately and loved him for his many fine qualities, that gifts of heart and of mind, courtliness of manner and beauty of speech, all united to make his personality attractive and pleasing in high degree. Dr. Harding was under his instruction when Dr. Wilson was teaching mathematics at Hampden-Sydney and he states that Dr. Wilson’s profundity of knowledge was past his fathoming as a student. He says that one of the delights of his college days was hearing Dr. Wilson preach from time to time. His fine presence, handsome face, dainty, beautiful rhetoric and nice phrasing were most engaging and winsome. The young student thought and continued to think when he heard him in later years that it might be said of Joseph Wilson as Dr. Johnson said of Goldsmith—“he touched nothing that he did not adorn.”

“On May 20, 1915 (the annual fete day of Charlotte, N. C.) Mr. Wilson was the orator. The day was to be filled with delightful functions for the presidential party, but he asked to be excused after a while.North Carolina, placed between Virginia and South Carolina, was very much like a slice of delicious ham between two pieces of bread—the ham was easily the best part of the whole sandwich.

D. WOODROW WILSON WAS WELL PREPARED.
(Continued from page 1)

Enlarged, enriched, but with the same philosophical, political, religious, and theological horizon. This is the place to say that Scotch Theology and life do not have that narrow and illiberal puritanical excommunication of all good worldly things which marked the extreme type of iconoclastic British Puritanism. To illustrate, John Knox appreciated the claims of beauty, money, social position, and, when at the age of fifty he got ready to marry a second time, he selected a rare and beautiful and youthful heiress—cousin to Mary, Queen of Scots; and she brought him youth, beauty, money, social standing; and mutual love crowned their union as long as life lasted. Beauty, grace, the wise use of all earthly good gifts as well as science and truth reign at the colleges of Davidson and Princeton as well as at the University of St. Andrews and Edinburgh—and the influences of Davidson and Princeton were in absolute harmony with his Scotch heredity and the teachings of his father’s study and classroom.

He studied law for two years at that famous seat of culture and catholicity, the University of Virginia, and if anything were needed to give breadth and amplitude of horizon to the discipline, which had been somewhat denominational and largely ecclesiastical, Jefferson’s famous foundation gave the additional scope and range of view. Then followed several years of specialization in the study of the philosophy of Society and the State at Johns Hopkins, under the tuition of the famous teachers which the gifted Gilman had gathered there. But his character had received its set; his intellectual and cultural tastes had been fixed when he went for professional and post-graduate study to the renowned schools at Charlottesville and Baltimore; and there is a singular and inner affinity between the heredity which on so many occasions he has most gratefully acknowledged, and his training and education which in most respects was almost identical with that which his Scotch forbears had received at St. Andrews or Glasgow or Edinburgh. Davidson and Princeton are modeled after St. Andrews, the oldest of the Scotch universities. His heredity and education were not antagonistic, but co-partners well-mated and lovingly matched.

COLLEGE HISTORY TELLS OF WILSON’S DAYS AT DAVIDSON
(Continued from page 3)

sen,’ and the same evening he made a ‘select speech’ and was fined 20 cents for ‘improper conduct in the hall.’ Other fines recorded are: 10 cents for sitting on the rostrum, 10 cents for failure to return a book on time, and 10 cents for talking. On April 25, Mr. T. Wilson was appointed ‘to inscribe the names of our alumni in a book to be purchased for this purpose,’ and for this work he was given a vote of thanks. This fact and a later entry give evidence of his standing as a scribe. “The chairman of the committee appointed to copy off into the new con- 

Hood Brick Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
The largest manufacturers of Shale products in the South. We have over 100 different kinds of face brick, hollow building tile, roofing tile, floor tile, mortar colors, and terra cotta. Build your air castles with brick and make them real.
C. W. GILCHRIST
Sales Manager

ACADEMY
VAUDEVILLE PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 15, 16, 17,
OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
PIERCE and GOFF
Artistic Musical Entertainers
SIMPSON AND DEAN
in ‘You Can’t Fool Me’
HARRY B. LESTER
in a Protean Comedy
‘SALL BY HIMSELF’
McCORMACK AND IRWIN
in ‘Accents and Nonsense’
ADROIT REVUE
A Musical Comedy Miniature, With Billy LaVar and Girls

“After Every Meal”
WRIGLEY’S
Get Your Clothes Cleaned
The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
See their agent:
W. Yonan
12 Chambers
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
FIVE CENTS.
The Flavor Lasts!