Watch Wilson Issue Out For Class Football

SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 9, 1921. No. 14

John B. Ratto Delights in Fine Impersonations
Second Lyceum Attraction is Highly Pleasing to All in Attendance.

SENIOR CLASS LAUNCHES PLAN TO HELP ATHLETICS
Old Newspaper Tells of Chambers in Early Days

The Senior Class on Monday morning voted to establish a permanent alumni loan fund in order to enable athletes to
attend school here who would otherwise be unable to do so. Coach Grey put the proposition before the class and
every man voted to contribute ten dollars a year for five consecutive years after graduation. An effort will be made
to have 1,500 alumni make the same contribution which will in five years make a total of $75,000. A Davidson
Alumni Association will be formed with an alumni secretary located here at the college, whose duty will be to keep
in close touch with the alumni by sending them monthly bulletins or letters. If this plan is fully carried out
there will be many athletes who will be enabled to come to Davidson by borrowing money from this fund who
would otherwise have to go to some institution where he would be paid for playing college football or baseball. Davidson
has never made a practice of this. With the hearty backing and co-operation of the alumni, athletic teams can be
put on the field which will give the old school a standing in athletics throughout the South that will be
even greater than in former years.

John B. Ratto, impersonator, presented an excellent program in the second number of the Redpath Lyceum Course Friday night in
Shearer Hall. The program was varied with plenty of life and fun. At no time during the entertainment was there
a lull and the audience kept guessing what might be the next performance. Mr. Ratto started the program with a
humorous and tongue-twisting monologue of an Irishman who wanted to go to Morrow today. Following this bit of fun was
an impersonation of an “ole timey” country-man, which was especially good. The next character was a very strict and religious
old minister who went to a football game in which his son played. This impersonation proved beyond any doubt that
preachers are just as human as anyone else. Probably the best character portrayed was that of a poor prisoner who
had just returned from the penitentiary and was arrested again. In his plea to the judge for justice, some of
the ladies were seen to bring out their handkerchiefs, so perfect was the impersonation. Another character presented was that of
an Italian, which showed the customs and habits of that race. The last number was a series of historic characters,
including King Peter of Serbia, ex-President Poincare of France, King Albert of Belgium, Lloyd George, ex-President Roosevelt, General Foch, General
Pershing, Woodrow Wilson, and Uncle Sam. These impersonations were exceptionally good and showed that Jno. B. Ratto is a genius
in his art.

D. ROCK HILL “Y” SECRETARY SPEAKS HERE NEXT SUNDAY.
Robert E. Mell, the Y. M. C. A. secretary at Rock Hill, will speak at the service next Sunday night.
He is an enthusiastic member of the Pocket Testament League and may speak on that subject. Mr. Mell graduated from
Georgia Tech, and shortly after joined the Aviation Corps of the army, in which he served as an observer during
the World War. For the last four years, he has been the secretary at Rock Hill. Older students may remember
that Mr. Mell led the singing several years ago when Dr. A. S. Johnson, of Charlotte, held protracted meetings here.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS
Students Preparing For Class Football Classic

Although the regular football season is over, the ardent devotees of the gridiron sport are whipping classmates into shape for
the class football classic. Plans which have been in the course of formation for some time at Davidson have finally
materialized and two new literary societies have been formed, with the purpose of extending to every man in college the
opportunity for training.

The following extract written by one of the editors of the North Carolina Presbyterian (of which the Presbyterian Standard is
the successor) of Fayetteville, N. C., February 1838, written by Rev. Dr. McNeill in the year 1858, will be of
interest at this time:

“That which attracts the visitor's notice now more than anything else is the edifice (Chambers Building) which is now in
the process of construction, five feet high and ready for the floor. When the building is finished it will be
one of the largest, handsomest, and most convenient in the land. Through the politeness of Mr. Schofield the contractor, we
learned the dimensions and the cost. The center building is 80 by 170 feet, including portico, which is 30 by
80. The columns of the portico are 45 feet high and 6 feet in diameter. The two wings are 107
feet in length, 60 feet in width. Three stories high, 35 feet. The center building is 55 feet high. The
first story of the latter has 6 large recitation rooms, the second story has the chapel and library rooms. The
chapel is 80 feet square. In the two wings are to be 60 double rooms 25 by 18.6. The corridor
through the wings is 8 feet wide and through the center building is 20 feet. According to the contract, the
building is to be finished by July, '50 and the contractor hopes to have it ready for occupation by students
next January. The whole cost will be $80,000."

Prof. Wm. L. Porter Makes Fine “Y” Address
Subject of “The Path of Life” Helpfully Discussed Last Sunday.

With Prof. Wm. L. Porter as the speaker, the “Y” service of last Sunday proved to rank among the best
of the year. When Dr. Fraser of Queens College could not come because of illness in his family, Professor Porter
willingly agreed to take his place. Basing his talk on the words “Thou wilt show me the path of life,”
Professor Porter made a strong appeal to the men to cease drifting aimlessly and to form some definite purpose in
life. Then it was shown how to go about finding that purpose. All people are anxious to know what the
future holds in store for them. However, their many efforts to read ahead are without avail, unless they have a
dependable guide. In the adventure of life, we can have that guide if we will only believe “Thou wilt show
me the path of life.” It has been the experience of the world over and over again that those who
seek a crown of success by way of the primrose path of pleasure always meet with death. It is certain
that all self-directed lives lead downward, while those directed by a higher power lead upward.

Polity Club Discusses Disarmament Conference
Wallace Moore and Russell Read Papers—Open Meeting Planned For December 13th.

The Polity Club held its regular meeting in the History room Tuesday evening, November 20th. Two papers were read and
discussed: “The Armaments Conference and How it Affects Great Britain,” by H. K. Russell and “The Armaments Conference and How
it Affects Japan,” by Wallace Moore. Russell explained the reasons for Japan’s suspicion that she is being discriminated against in
the 5-5-3 ratio and in the United States immigration laws. Then in a masterly way he discussed the issues which
Japan has at stake.Stake all God-directed lives lead upward. Join the conference. But with science, many other things beckoning a
man, how is he to know which one to follow? The correct decision may be arrived at. In the first
paper, Russell showed that ‘Great Britain must depend on her navy for her support; her very life itself depends upon
the position which she now holds as mistress of the sea. Upon geographic conditions, from personal experience and observation, and
concrete reasons and so the program committee announced the program for the next meeting, “A Miniature Armaments Conference.” England, by
answering these questions: What am I able to do? What do I want to do? What should I do? Look
at the need and God will point out the path to follow. God has a plan for your life. The
question is whether or not you will find that plan. THOU WILT SHOW me the path of life. The foundations
of granite are already laid.

Moore, in his paper, gave the economical reasons. After a discussion of these papers, the committees have announced opportunities to
see the wearers of the pigskin organizations, and constitutions and bylaws are being drawn up. For class football is on
tap. The cleated shoes, headgears, and other gridiron garments are making one last appearance before retiring in favor of basketball.
Last year, owing to the unfavorable weather, but one class game was played. This year, with the permission of the
weatherman, it is hoped that a full schedule can be run off. Although the dates have not been definitely arranged,
it is probable that the first game will be played Monday.

One society will be composed of men from the State of North Carolina who desire to enter into the work
of public speaking. The officers elected for this society are: W. M. McLeod, president; K.P. Brown, vice-president; W. Z. Bradford,
secretary; L. Z. Burney, treasurer; C. Douglas, first supervisor; G. M. Morrow, second supervisor. The other society will be composed
principally of men who hail from states other than North Carolina. The officers are: J.P. Price, president; W. A. Gamble,
vice-president; W. M. Cox, secretary; J. C. Bailey, first critic. Other officers have not been elected.

The formation of these two organizations is looked upon as an advance step in the literary work of the college,
and indications are that great success will be achieved. Many men who have heretofore been entirely out of literary society
work have placed their names upon the rosters of the new organizations.

Alumni Cooperation For Athletics Inaugurated
Definite Plans Made at Annual Meeting of Charlotte Chapter.

At the annual meeting of the Charlotte Chapter of the Alumni Association, held last Friday night in Charlotte, a movement
was launched for the organization of a general Alumni Athletic Association having as its purpose the promoting of athletics at
Davidson. The election of officers for the year was held, resulting in the following men being chosen: M. Brevard McDowell
as president, to succeed Dr. Reid Lafferty, who served as toastmaster at the dinner, and Dr. Oren Moore as vice-president.
Dr. W. J. Martin spoke on “The Relation of the Alumni to the College.” In the course of his speech,
he gave a vivid picture of the conditions at the school and how the faculty and students were handicapped as
a result of the loss of Chambers building. But he concluded his talk with a brighter picture, that out of
the ruins of old Chambers would grow a better building.

Doctor Martin’s address was followed by short speeches from members of the faculty and prominent alumni, who gave expressions of
loyalty to Davidson and an increasing need for better cooperation among the alumni in securing more athletes, better equipment, and
increased endowment for the institution. Among those who spoke were Dr. W. J. Martin, Prof. W. W. Wood, Dr. J.
M. Douglass, Coach Grey, Mr. R. A. Dunn of Charlotte, Mr. R. J. M. Miller, Jr., Dr. Oren Moore, Dr.
John Peter Monroe, Dr. Hamilton McKay, and Dr. A. A. McGeachy of the Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte. After the speeches,
the Wildcat quartet added much to the pleasure of the occasion by rendering several pleasing selections. The chapter had as
its special guests of the evening, this year’s football letter men. At this time, the election of officers for the
year was held.

Miss Margaret Adams, a popular teacher in the city school, has gone to Rock Hill Wednesday for an operation for
appendicitis. Miss Madge Potts is substituting for her in the fifth grade.

WHAT'S DOING.
Thursday—7:45 p.m., Phi and Eu Societies.
8:00 p.m., New Literary Societies.
Saturday—2:15 p.m., Alice Brady, in “Little Italy.”
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1:00 p.m., Christian Endeavor Training Class.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p.m., Doctor Hood's Bible Class.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Monday—7:00 p.m., Bible Class Leaders’ Meeting.
Tuesday—6:45 p.m., Fresh Eu Society.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Bible Classes.
Thursday—New Davidsonians Arrive.

The singing of “Drifting” by Sorrels, Buchanan, Crane, and Allison added to the effectiveness of the service. The meeting was
led by J. Sprunt. Allison, as song leader, was as efficient as ever. A fortnight of work, then Santa Claus!
