4 The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL.............................................Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS....................................Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND........................Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE........................................Assignment Editor
R. DOUBLES........................................Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN...............................Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL...............................Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE................................Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP....................................Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS..................................Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. HILL..................................................Social Editor
M. GASTON, JR...................................Literary Editor

REPORTERS:
King, A. D.
Lacy, T. A.
Long, C. G.
Mahood, D. L.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Morris, H. M.
Lowrance, D. W.
Ogden, D. H.
Ormond, A. C.
Phillips, J. W.
Sprunt, J.
Summers, A. C.
Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C.
Bailey, J. C.
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.
Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.
Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS............................Business Manager
Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG........................................Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL........................................Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Well, it has happened—Plenty of Junior Speaking and no rain. The ratification of the League of Nations by the Senate
would not cause us any surprise after such a blessing. The passing of basketball ushers in the diamond artists, and
we wish the best of luck to Coach Hengeveld in this year’s team.

The arrival of hosiery on the campus Friday was a sight to gladden the hearts of many. Yes, we are
only referring to the hose used in connection with Phi Hall fire.

Is your idea of college a place where you receive everything and give nothing in return? Let this be your
training grounds for a life of unselfish service, and begin now by serving your fellow students and college.

IT HAS long been a matter of conjecture to us exactly what was the purpose of the water plugs on
the campus when there was no hose anywhere around. Last Friday demonstrated how essential a good supply of fire hose
is, and we would urge that the college take steps to remedy this deficiency. The students are always willing to
fight a conflagration large or small, but to do it rapidly and efficiently there must be the adequate first fighting
equipment. A few tin buckets would not be very effective against a large blaze. The Phi Hall blaze carries a
lesson that should not be disregarded.

The spring styles surely added much to the picturesqueness of the campus during the past few days. That Davidson has
good dramatic material was again demonstrated in the excellent presentation of the two plays last Saturday night. No one not
actively connected with the Dramatic Club realizes the credit that is due Professor Erwin and his wife for their untiring
efforts in making this new feature of our college life a brilliant success. They have devoted much of their time
and energy in directing this organization, and we take this opportunity to thank them in the name of the Davidson
student body for their splendid work.

HATS OFF TO THE JUNIOR CLASS.
The long sought for ideal Junior Speaking has been achieved. The Class of '22 by making this possible has established
a name for itself that will long be remembered by the present students of Davidson College. The social spirit of
the occasion was excellent as is attested by the large number of non-fraternity girls that were present as well as
the general democratic atmosphere of the whole campus. Too much praise cannot be spoken of the Class that could accomplish
this one feat alone. The forensic exercises, reception, and program as a whole were well arranged and executed. A new
movement has been initiated with great success, and we commend to the rising Junior Class that they follow in the
paths of their older brothers in bringing this plan into vogue.

CAN WE REMEDY THE DEFECT?
Each passing athletic season again reveals the most noticeable fact that there is something seriously wrong with our cheering at
various contests. Davidson men are not lacking in school spirit, so this is not the cause. Some have advanced the
reason that there is too much of the Calvinistic strain in our students for them to give vent to their
feelings by loud vocal demonstrations. But again we do not believe that this is the real excuse. The trouble as
we see it is the lack of an efficient leader, and to overcome this defect we offer the suggestion that
each year the letter “D,” suitably marked, be given in order to create competition for this position and thereby achieve
better results. Other up-to-date colleges have made this a custom, and the results in their improved cheering is ample proof
of the success of the scheme. There is no reason why Davidson should be sobehind in this expression of college
spirit, and we offer to the Athletic Association our suggestion as expressed above.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

that will appeal to all who are interested in good drama.—Orange and White.

EXCHANGES.

Of the four new tennis courts to be constructed by the College Tennis Club, two have just been completed and
are now opened to the use of the members of the club.

The annual carnival of the University of Tennessee was held Friday night, March 4th, at the auditorium of the Knoxville
High School. There were stunts lasting five minutes each by each fraternity, sorority, and organization. Numerous vaudeville acts were interspersed
to add to the gaiety and frolic. In addition to an individual prize for the best comedian, handsome loving cups
were awarded to the fraternity, sorority, and club which was adjudged as presenting the best stunt in its class. —Orange
and White.

BLUE CO-EDS.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room. Velvet Joe says, “Some girls ought to wear speedometers instead of wrist watches.”—Tiger.

Mel Trotter Holds Evangelistic Services at Washington and Lee.

The nationally known Grand Rapids Evangelist, Mel Trotter, is conducting a series of evangelistic services on the Washington and Lee
campus. He is assisted in the services by Dr. C. F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro,
N. C., and Alumnus of W. and L., and Mr. Homer Hammontree, Director of Music.

A MIDNIGHT GAME.

The football game was over;
Before the parlor grate
A man and a maiden were lingering
Rather late.
They talked of punts and passes,
Things which were rather tame,
Till Cupid put on his nose guard
And butted in the game.

He lined that couple up
Then made them toe the mark;
Soon he had them going
With a scrimmage in the dark.

As they sat there in silence
In their new found bliss
Theisman thought the scrimmage
Ought to end with a kiss.

Thereupon he tried one,
An amateurish affair.
Then he lost it on a fumble
And instead it hit the hair.

The next he landed on her ear,
And the maid did shyly say:
“You are penalized for holding, Jim,
Likewise for off-side play.”

Fiercely he tried another,
This time succeeding fine,
For he made a touchdown
On that warm red five-yard line.

As they sat there in silence,
Communing soul and soul,
The parlor door swung open,
And father kicked a goal. —Ex.

New Tennis Courts and Bleachers for Wake Forest.

New bleachers for the Wake Forest baseball field are now under construction and it is hoped that they will be
available for use by the time baseball practice gets in full swing. They will have a seating capacity of six
hundred.

Read a story about a bunch of Illinois co-eds forming a club and pledging themselves not to go with any
boys who smoked or chewed tobacco. The boys then organized a club pledging themselves not to date with girls who
wore knee-length skirts and went to dances minus their corsets. As a result, nobody has had a date in that
burg for a month.

A NEED.

The Davidsonian is acknowledged as the best college newspaper in the South. But it cannot remain so if other colleges
teach the students journalism and Davidson fails to give her students this assistance. We have a very helpful course of
one year in Elementary Law, so why can’t we have either a whole year or even a half-year course in
newspaper writing and editing? For a whole year’s work, this course could cover the ground thoroughly, taking up every conceivable
form of newspaper reporting, and even taking up some time with the technique of putting a paper together.

But discussing this matter will get us nowhere at all unless the men most interested in the matter get together
and show that a one-year course in journalism is really needed and wanted by the men in college doing newspaper
work. Who will start the ball rolling?

Homer.

Mark these words, they all will flop sooner or later.

SPOKEN DRAMA TO BE REVIVED AT TENNESSEE.

Under the direction of the new dramatic club, local talent is soon to resume its place behind the footlights. On
the evenings of March 19th and April 2d, there will be presented at Tennessee Hall six one-act plays. These plays
have been carefully selected and are such that will appeal to all who are interested in good drama.

“The question is not what is the world coming to, but when it's coming to it.” —The Vanderbilt Hustler.

What man doesn’t like his pipe? There’s nothing whets your smoke desires like seeing a good pipe lying around. Because
you know that in it is the only real smoke satisfaction. Your appetite will be doubly whetted if it is
a WDC, because in WDC Pipes all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar is brought out by
our own special seasoning process. Then, too, WDC Pipes are good to look at. The designs are pleasing and workmanship
perfect. You'll agree with us that our craftsmen are accomplishing their purpose—to make pipes that are without peers in all
the world. Ask any good dealer. Be sure and look for the Triangle trademark. It’s a guarantee against cracking or
burning through.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
