THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 27, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

D. R. FREEMAN LIKES THE LIFE AT UNION SEMINARY

Dear Friend:

Was glad to hear from you. I used to be long on correspondence, but I am living in a place now where I find my correspondence gradually dwindling. So before it dwindles out completely I will send you a little message. I have been under the keen pressure of “somethin’ doin’” all the while since coming here. To begin with: the spirit of this place is work, as I have never known it before. Not that you go to it as one compelled to; but as I say, the spirit of the place is “work,” spelled with capitals, and I’m glad to say I’ve caught it. It is contagious. The slacker is not tolerated, or in other words, he’s not here. He knows this is no place for him.

I could write you many pages on the joys, privileges, opportunities, and blessings of this place, but I can’t paint the picture in its true colors. Anyway, you'll be here next year, and I'll tell you now, by way of anticipation, you have something to look forward to. I have found, since coming here, like the Queen of Sheba visiting Solomon, that the half had never been told.

Right now we are in the midst of the lectures by that master of oratory, Wm. Jennings Bryan. Man, they are wonderful; he’s wonderful! He'll be here all this week. In all we'll have nine of his lectures.

K. B. McCutchen and I are rooming together. We have a suite of three rooms—a bedroom each and a large roomy study. He has a trombone and we often get together. We find our musical tendencies will bring us into much service. I hope to actually be instrumental in organizing a small band or orchestra during my sojourn here. Not this year possibly but by next year when we have some more of the old guard from D. C. up. The D. C. men compose about half of this student body: 42 out of a possible 95.

One of the many phases of the mission work the students do here—the most novel is the street preaching on Saturday afternoon downtown—right on Broad street. That is where K. B. and I are in demand. Bishop McClure and his baby organ, my cornet, K. B.’s trombone and a Miss Heath, of the A. T. S., who plays a saxophone. We draw the crowd and four or five fellows preach to them (at different times, however) about ten or fifteen minutes each. I could enlarge on this work, but time fails me.

Oh, you'll be glad when you get here. Everything is so delightful—the Christian fellowship, and everything. Write again whenever you can.

Sincerely,
D. R. FREEMAN.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Dr. J. M. L. Rogers, ’13, recently returned from Korea, was at Davidson to see the Wofford game. For the present he is located at 202 N. Brevard St., Charlotte. The health of Mrs. Rogers is greatly improved and Dr. Rogers hopes to return to Korea next year.

W. F. Carter, '76, was on the hill last week.

W. W. Carter, ’21, is located in Portland, Me., and is working for the Equitable Life Insurance Company.

Locke White, ’13, who has been pastor at Blacksburg, Va., will sail in December for China. He will be in Davidson on the 6th or 13th of December and speak at the “Y” service.

Lloyd Bray, ex-’22, is a prominent student on the campus of Elon College, being managing editor of the college paper and a member of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet.

W. T. Bitzer, ’14, is helping Dr. Sweets to collect money in Virginia and West Virginia for college education.

H. T. Lilly, ’18, is Instructor of English at McCallie School.

H. Boykin, ex-’24, is in Wake Forest studying law.

D. S. Epps, ex-’21, is recovering from a severe sickness in Kingstree, S. C.

Hon. Josephus Daniels, after a social call on ex-President Wilson, '77, last week, in which only casual topics were discussed, states that Mr. Wilson is greatly improved in health.

Rev. J. F. McKinnon, '80, of Rutherfordton, N. C., has been engaged by the session of the Fort Mill Presbyterian Church to supply their vacant pulpit for part of the present month.

Rev. J. W. Stokes, ’94, is recovering from a six weeks’ stay in the hospital, which produced severe anemia.

FIRST LYCEUM NUMBER HERE TUESDAY FOR NOVELTY

The appearance of the Novelty Four, in Shearer Hall, Tuesday evening at 8 o'clock, will initiate the winter and spring entertainment course, which will be afforded the students and townspeople of Davidson, by the Redpath Lyceum Bureau. The Novelty Four is composed of four young men who have had wide experience on the Lyceum and Chautauqua platform and who are well recommended by the management. They present a program of exceptional quality and variety, which will consist of orchestral and individual instrumental numbers, quartet numbers and readings. The program will be full of life and selections will be of such a variety as to please the entire audience, ranging from the witty and humorous readings and ballads to the more classical and artistic selections.

The local management of the Lyceum announces that the course will be of unusual talent and that special care has been exercised in the selection of the various numbers, so that the very best of entertainment might be secured. Season tickets are on sale at White Drug Company and Henderson’s Jewelry Store.

FIGHTING WOFFORD TEAM. (Continued from page 2)

for a touchdown. Schenck kicked goal. D. C. 14, Wofford 0.

McFadden kicked off 35 yards to Carmichael who returned to the 46-yard line. Nomingo substituted for Gibson. Carmichael made 1. Nomingo fumbled and recovered for a 2-yard loss. On a cross buck Carmichael lost a yard. Nomingo punted to Davidson's 40-yard line. Schenck made 3. McFadden to Black gained 25 yards. Moore made 9 at right tackle. Schenck made 4. Bethea fumbled and recovered. Davis lost 4 on an end over play. McFadden passed to Schenck for a touchdown. Schenck kicked goal. D. C. 21, Wofford 0.

The all-Americans go in for the varsity. Erwin kicked off 50 yards to Carmichael, who returned to the 33-yard line. Thompson made 1 and then passed to Carmichael for another yard. Crawford broke up a pass to Carmichael. Schenck kicked goal. D. C. 73, Wofford 0.

After Kingman had kicked off out of bounds, Nomingo kicked off 20 yards to Clarke who returned 3. Moore made 35 yards at left end. Long made 15 at right end. Brown made 5 around left end. Brown made a touchdown at right end. Schenck kicked goal. D. C. 80, Wofford 0.

Long kicked off 50 yards to Nomingo who returned 30. Kingman no gain. Mallory for Black. Nomingo failed at center and his pass was incomplete. His punt was blocked but Coleman recovered on Davidson’s 35-yard line. This was the only time that Wofford had the ball in Davidson’s territory. B. Carmichael no gain. Nomingo fumbled and recovered for 2-yard loss. Pass incomplete. Nomingo punted over the goal line. Moore traveled 55 yards around right end. Long added 1. Schenck made 5 and Brown made 4. Boggs in for Brown. Davis 5 yards around end. Nomingo punted 15 yards to Crawford. Moore took 10 yards and a touchdown for Davidson. Shepherd hit right tackle for 2 and Erwin took 25 yards off right end. Shepherd failed to gain but Hendrix stepped through left tackle for 25 yards and a touchdown. Shepherd kicked goal. D. C. 87, Wofford 0.

Long kicked off 55 yards to Nomingo who returned 27. Ball on 32-yard line. A pass was incomplete. Erwin went around right end for 40 yards for another touchdown. The interference on this play was perfect. D. C. 94, Wofford 0.

Mr. Rawls Howard, '17, of Tarboro, N. C., spent Monday on the campus.Davidson men there this year are: H. B. Brown, ’20, Instructor of English and History; J. R. McKeldin, ’21, Instructor of Spanish, and J. Eris Cassell, ’21, Instructor of Latin and Physics.

Rev. B. L. Coleman, ‘06, has transferred from Roswell, Ga., to Millboro Springs, Fla.

Alumni at Game.
Among the alumni who were at the game Saturday were: Capt. Reed R. Morrison, ‘02; C. Arch Cannon, ’04; I. P. Graham, ’08; Joe Johnson, ’01; A. L. Fosque, ’20; E. P. Nesbitt, '17, and C. K. Brown, ’21; Coit Robinson, ’10.

ADVANCE ON RICHMOND GAME
The Davidson Wildcats journey to Richmond Saturday, where they meet the strong Richmond University eleven on Stadium Field. From all indications, the Spiders have a very strong aggregation this fall, and the Davidson warriors are going to have a mighty hard time if they wind up on the right side of the score.

The Richmond eleven held the University of Virginia scoreless in two periods, and the game finally resulted in a 4 to 0 score in favor of the Charlottesville team. Several weeks previous to that, the Wildcats were defeated by the same eleven 28 to 0. This perhaps looks bad, but Virginia scored in the last seconds of play against the Carolina eleven. This is going to make the Wildcats fight all the harder. Also, it will be a big honor for Davidson to defeat Dobson’s men, who beat the Catholic University 14 to 10, and held the heavy V. P. I. team so well, besides puzzling the U. of Va. by their great defense. Although the Davidson Varsity will be outweighed eight pounds to the man, Coach Grey’s Wildcats can make up every pound with fight. The men are in tip-top shape after their frolic on Sprunt Field last Saturday, and have the confidence and old-time pep. Fur is going to fly when the Red and Black meets the Red and Blue. But keep your eye on the Davidson Wildcats.

Comparative Statistics of Davidson Wildcats and Richmond Spiders.
Davidson. Wt. Pos. Wt. U. of R.
Black 155 LE 155 Rucker
Davis 170 LT 166 Carleton
LaFar 170 LG 186 Booker
Brice 163 C 187 Bethel
Long 165 RG 185 Johnson
Clarke 181 RT 160 Klevesohl
Faison 155 RE 175 Reams
Schenck 149 QB 133 Fowill
Moore 129 LH 150 Jones
McAlister 135 RH 150 Ziegler
McFadden 153 FB 170 Snead

Davidson. U. of R.
Average weight end to end 163 155
Average weight tackle to tackle 170 166
Average weight of backfield 150 176
Average weight of team 163 155

JUNIOR-FRESH GAME.
When the Juniors met the Fresh in the basketball series Friday night, both teams were determined to win. When the whistle blew, they started off with a dash and as both teams were in mid-form, it was uncertain at first which would be victors. Soon, though, the Juniors were able to jump ahead of the hard-fighting Fresh, by their superb passing. The Fresh were unable to stem the tide in the second half and when the whistle blew, the fast Junior five had won 38 to 21. The line-up follows:

Juniors. Position. Fresh.
Houghton (0) Staley (10) Forward
Brake (0) Mitchell (2) Forward
Mauze, C. (13) Anderson (7) Center
Toney (4) Morrison (2) Guard
Covington (12) Koenig (0) Guard

Subs—Mitchell for Beall; referee: Coach Hengeveld; scorekeeper: Gene Mauze; fouls: Staley 2 out of 4, Anderson 1 out of 1, Mauze 3 out of 4, Brake 1 out of 2. Stars—Juniors: Covington and Mauze; Fresh: Staley and Anderson.

SOME OF THE WONDERS OF THE WORLD
It is seldom that men become engrossed in a discussion of women’s clothes. The garment must be extreme in some way, either in size, color, texture, or shape to attract more than a passing glance. But men, like all other rational animals, love to see beautiful clothes, even though they are designed for women. I had an opportunity, a short while ago, to see some of the beautiful clothes in the ladies’ department of Ed. Mellons. One article that I was especially struck with was a fur coat, the softest of fur, smooth, slick, and shiny, with a gorgeous silk lining. But since the selling price of this coat was $950, I did not care to buy it—just yet. Another thing was a suit of silk pajamas, an exact copy of the suit worn by the leading lady in a performance at the Winter Garden last year. The two suits were designed by the same artist. Ed. Mellon’s buyer bought this suit to be used for display only. Still another article of rare beauty was a satin slipper with a jeweled buckle. It just seemed to me that this slipper was entirely too pretty to be put on the ground by any foot. To enumerate all the pretty things there would take too much space. However, this will help you to realize, fellows, that Ed Mellon’s is no small place. They handle everything in wearing apparel from Boy Scout shoes to silk hats, from overalls to Prince Alberts.

WRIGLEY'S FIVE CENTS
The Flavor Lasts!

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves

We want your business and you need our service.
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS, CANDIES, PICKLES, SANDWICHES, and everything.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Carmichael made 2. Ball goes over.