THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

EXHIBITION GOLF MATCH PLAYED ON LOCAL LINKS

An exhibition match to promote the playing of golf at Davidson was played on the Davidson golf course Friday afternoon
of last week. Those playing in the foursome hailed from Charlotte and are as follows: Mr. Goebel, professional at the
Charlotte Country Club and known as the “Long Driver”; Mr. Laxton, amateur champion of the state; Mr. Brem and Mr.
Porter. The match was a success in every way. There were about a hundred students out to watch the game
and they saw some excellent playing during the afternoon. There will probably be more golfers on the course this week
than there have been in the past, due to the excellent golf they have seen.

The features were the long drives and low scoring of Mr. Goebel and the consistent playing of Mr. Brem. The
other two members of the foursome played good golf and were only a few strokes behind the leaders. Mr. Goebel
was the outstanding player of the foursome, making a 35. This score ties the record of the course. Only one
hole was played badly and if this had been better the record would have been lowered by several strokes. As
it is, Mr. Goebel’s playing was nothing short of spectacular. The individual scores are as follows: Goebel 40 and 35;
Laxton 41 and 40; Brem 38 and 42; Porter 42 and 42.

ON THE GRIDIRON

LEXINGTON HIGH LOSES TO D. C. SCRUBS 7-0

The Davidson Scrubs added another to their long string of victories when they defeated Lexington High School last Friday afternoon
7-0. As the score indicates, the game was unusually close. The Lexington team was greatly strengthened by the playing of
Ripple and Eberhart in the line, while Grissom led the offensive with several nice runs. Ripple and Eberhart are old
N. C. State stars. Grissom was a letter man at Guilford for four years. He saved the Hi team several
times by his punts.

The Scrubs played the usual clean and aggressive game on the offensive while even the mighty Ripple could not open
holes in the defense. The only tally came in the last period when McComb made a nice run through the
entire Lexington team for 25 yards and a touchdown. Several blue sweaters were left on the ground when they tried
to check the “Rough Red.” After this counter, the Wildcats received the kick-off and were marching down the field for
another score when the whistle stopped them on the 30-yard line.

At the first kick-off, Regen kicked to Grissom who returned five yards. The Scrubs held for downs. Grissom kicked to
Overton who returned three. The ball went back and forth the entire quarter, neither side threatening to score. The quarter
ended with the ball in possession of L. H. S. on D. C.’s 40-yard line. The second quarter was a
repetition of the first, ending with the Wildcats in possession of the ball on their 30-yard line.

At the beginning of the second half, Grissom kicked off to Roddey, who returned about five yards. The third quarter
was again a seesaw, neither side having the advantage. At the end of this period, the ball was D. C.’s
on Lexington’s 40-yard line. It was near the end of this frame that McComb, sub for Woods, got loose for
his touchdown.

For Lexington, Grissom was the outstanding star, making most of their gains, while Smith played a good end. It is
hard to pick individual stars for the Wildcats, the entire team played consistent ball with teamwork and interference the outstanding
features. But Young and Regen were the most conspicuous in the line, while Raker and Ballard made steady gains in
the backfield and McComb starred in the brief period that he was in the game.

Line-up:
Lexington Position Davidson
Peacock --------- RNS --------- Roddey
Ripple ----------- L. T. --------- Regen
Eberhart --------- R. G. --------- Lowry
Farabee ---------- C. ----------- Briggs
Eberhart --------- L. G. --------- Fears
Lewis ------------ L. T. --------- Young
Smith ------------ L. E. --------- Phillips
Leonard ---------- Q. B. --------- Overton
Grissom ---------- L. H. --------- Woods
Boe --------------- R. H. --------- Ballard
Raker ------------ F. B. --------- Raker

Substitutions: Davidson, Smith for Ballard, McComb for Woods, Ford for Robbins for Smith.

Still hilarious over last Saturday’s victory over N. C. State, the Wildcats will embark Saturday on the Winston Special, with
hopes that will not be waned until Carolina is scalped and the “tar” extricated from the Tar Heels. With a
3-3 score with N. C. State, Davidson stock has soared and when that Red and Black machine is out to
fight and looking mean on the 12th, the odds will be even, and if stock continues to soar, the odds
will be with the Wildcat team. N. C. State beat Carolina 7-0, but Carolina since then has defeated V. M.
I. 20-0 and University of Maryland 13-6, thus strengthening confidence in themselves and giving a much more favorable outlook for
the Tar Heel aggregation. A better team than State, was a few inches short.

D. STATE AND WILDCATS STRUGGLE TO 3-3 TIE

(Continued from page 1)

The dashing runs of Schenck presented a combination that State couldn’t stop. If figures are taken as a basis, Davidson
outplayed State in every phase of the game. Davidson made 147 yards from scrimmage for 11 first downs, while State
made 127 yards for nine first downs. Each team attempted fifteen passes, the Wildcats nabbing nine for a gain of
an even 100 yards, while the Wolfpack completed six for a gain of 46 yards. McFadden bested Faucett in kickoffs
and showed the way to Park in punting.

The game in detail:

First Quarter.
McFadden fizzled his kickoff and Ellerbe received it. He immediately fumbled when Clark hit him like a ton of bricks,
La Far recovering. An exchange of punts was followed by a sensational pass on the fourth down, McFadden to Schenck,
netting 25 yards. Moore sliced 10 yards and a first down off right end. After making a first down on
passes, State lost the ball on downs. Several line plays, a 15-yard pass to Schenck and a nifty punt by
McFadden put the ball on State’s 20-yard line as the quarter ended.

Second Quarter.
State punted, Moore making a nice return to State’s 48-yard line. Moore then skipped through the line for 21 yards
and several line plays carried the ball to the 10-yard mark. Shepherd then dropped back to the 25-yard mark and
used his enlightened toe to advantage, placing the ball squarely between the uprights. The rest of the quarter was occupied
in exchanges of passes.

Third Quarter.
Faucette kicked off and McFadden was soon forced to punt. State then started a drive for a touchdown but it
ended abruptly when Faucette fumbled, Schenck recovering. An exchange of punts kept the ball in midfield until the period ended
with Schenck intercepting a pass.

GREAT PEP MEETING HELD PRECEDING STATE GAME

The livest, loudest pep-meeting of the year was held in Shearer Hall Friday night in anticipation of the N. C.
State game at Charlotte the following day. There was a larger number of boys there than usual, and all of
them were armed with paddles and sticks with which they ruthlessly tormented the backs of the seats. There was a
loud deafening roar of paddles,Yelling, whistling, and stamping that preluded, and filled up the intervals between the yells. Story, Price,
and Knox, after they had given a few of the regular yells and had sung “O Davidson,” put their heads
together and thought up two new ones. One, O D-a-v-i-d-son, repeated three times with the first two syllables of the
word drawn out and the last one stressed, followed by team repeated three times in quick succession. A second yell
was given by having one side of the room yell Hi Wildcats, the other, Hi Cats, then the whole room
came in on Hi, Hi, Hi, Wildcats, Wildcats, Wildcats. The pep stirred up the student body at this meeting and
to the team by the former’s cheering, was, no doubt, a great factor in making the team fight as never
before.

Fourth Quarter. McFadden punted, Davidson recovering when Moore intercepted a pass. The Wildcats soon had the ball in position for
a try at goal but Shepherd’s attempt was unsuccessful. State marched straight down the 25-yard line then Faucette kicked a
neat field goal, tying the score. With but five minutes of time left the Wildcats made their final stab for
victory. Receiving the kick-off, a series of passes soon had the ball on State’s 5-yard line. Running plays failing, Shepherd
dropped back to the 20-yard mark for a third try at a place kick. But a State linesman broke through
and the attempt was unsuccessful. The game ended with the ball in State’s possession in her own territory.

Davidson (3) Position N. C. State (3)

Field... Wild
Brice... Ellerbe
Davis... Moore

“Blood and Sand,” Ibanez; “Galusha the Magnificent,” Lincoln; “The Brimming Cup,” Canfield; “Old Plantation Days,” Rutledge; “Chair on the Boulevard,”
Merrick; and “While Paris Laughed,” Merrick.

State: Baker for Ellerbe; Johnson for Hill; Strong for Holland.

LIBRARY NEWS

The Library has acquired several new books during the past two weeks. Among them are papers of the late Dr.
R. A. Shewtake and children are visiting relatives in Gastonia.

LITERARY NEWS

NEW LITERARY SOCIETY FORMED MONDAY NIGHT

The Eumenean Literary Society at its last meeting concluded a most heated discussion on the matter of forming a new
society by passing resolutions in which it assumed a friendly attitude toward any new society that might be organized, and
voted its good will to such of its members as might desire to withdraw for the purpose of entering the
new society. It should be understood, however, that the Eumenean Literary Society is neither sponsoring nor organizing a new society
but simply assuming a friendly attitude and expressing a wish to cooperate with any new society that may be formed.
This new society, if organized, will not be a part of the Eumenean Literary Society but a separate and distinct
organization. Honorable discharges, together with a full transfer of credits from the Eumenean Society, will be given to those men
who may wish to become members of the new society. The new society will also be allowed the use of
the Eumenean Hall until some permanent arrangements in regard to a regular place of meeting can be made.

The debate for the evening was called off in order to allow more time for the discussion of the formation
of a new society. Declamations by W. M. Heston, A. C. Wildman, and K. E. Luckie comprised the only part
of the regular program. These declamations were well delivered and were thoroughly enjoyed by the audience.

Those interested in the formation of a new society met in the Eumenean Hall Monday night and decided to form
a new organization. Tentative officers were elected: President, J. P. Price; Secretary, W. Arnett Gamble; Secretary, M. R. Doubles. It
was decided to meet on Thursday nights at nine-thirty, the meetings to be held for the present in the Eumenean
society hall.

PHILANTHROPICS CHOOSE THIS YEAR’S MARSHALLS

A short, but well-prepared program in the Phi Society last Thursday night was followed by the election of Marshalls for
this year and the discussion of a plan for forming a new society; the latter submitted by Taylor. The question
for debate as announced by the President was: Resolved: That in the recently averted railway strike the employees were not
justified. Baldwin and J. P. Booth upheld the affirmative, claiming that the strike would not have been justified from a
legal standpoint, from an economic standpoint, nor from a moral standpoint. For the negative, F. S. Johnston and E. D.
Brown defended the threatened move of the employees on the grounds that the railways were run economically enough at present
and any move in this direction ought not to hit the employees first, and that more system in railway management
would remedy the situation. The decision was two for the affirmative.

In the extemporaneous debate, R. H. Brown attempted to prove that a course in music should be established at Davidson.
But the arguments of McGeachy prevailed over the oratory of Brown and the decision of the judges was two for
the negative. This closed the regular program of the evening and the Marshalls for this year were elected. T. A.
Freeman was elected Chief Marshall, and the other Marshalls elected were J. F. Clarke, J. H. McKeithen, L. A. Wooten,
and J. W. Baldwin. L. A. Taylor, chairman of the Committee on Division, read the Agreement of Division which was
accepted by the society. Wool, Wooten, and Burney, members of the Committee on Division, urged that the men back with
all their energy either society they entered. This committee was continued as an Equalization Board to keep the division as
nearly equal as possible and at the same time not have any man dissatisfied.

FRATERNITIES INITIATE FIVE ADDITIONAL MEN

Since the opening of school five men have been initiated into the different fraternities on the hill. R. C. Brake
and F. K. Toney have been initiated by Sigma Alpha Epsilon. J. D. Steed has been initiated by Kappa Alpha.
B. M. Hamer has been initiated by Kappa Sigma. R. W. Holmes has been initiated by Beta Theta Pi. H.
F. Northrop has been pledged by Pi Kappa Alpha.

NOVELTY FOUR BEGINS THE LYCEUM SCHEDULE

The Novelty Four presented the first number of the Redpath Lyceum course last Tuesday evening in Shearer Hall. A splendid
program was presented, consisting of orchestral and individual instrumental numbers, quartet numbers, and readings. The program began with an overture
of exceptional quality and feeling. This was followed by various numbers which made the Novelty Four live up to their
name, for anything was performed from the making of a rag picture to a one-arm recital. Van O. Browne was
easily the favorite of the four, being a wonderful impersonator and a gifted artist in music. He was especially entertaining,
when as Shylock, he played in the first scene of the fourth act of Shakespeare’s popular play, “The Merchant of
Venice.” As a Hindu prince, he was able, beyond any doubt, to do miracles, through his magic prowess. Besides his
ability as an impersonator, Browne was gifted in the use of the accordion, with which he played several popular pieces.

The quartette numbers were full of both humor and classics. Among the numbers rendered were: Carry Me Back to Old
Virginny, Nellie Gray, Home Sweet Home, and a recital with words by Kipling. The program was closed by an orchestral
number of the latest and “jazziest” jazz, with the use of the saxophone, piccolo, violin, and piano. The unique costumes
used were a feature of the entertainment.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON INITIATES THREE MEN

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity initiated three new members last Friday night. They were: L. A. Wooten, ’22; W.
S. Buchanan, ’23; and J. B. Sloan, ’23. The initiation was a live one, followed by an informal feed. Gamma
Sigma Epsilon is an honorary chemical fraternity, only students who have shown an interest in the subject and made a
grade of 85 or more for four consecutive terms are eligible for membership. The work on the hall is about
completed. The interior has been painted, the curtains hung, and furniture put in, and a library will soon be added.

S. D. Brice, ex-21, is playing end on the Selma, Ala., Y. M. C. A. football team. Last fall he
was a star forward on their basketball team which was recognized as one of the best in the State.

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed
service. Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE SPORTSMAN
5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248
