THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 18, 1921.

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future.

For information address,
The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President
Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary
Columbia, S. C.

Established 1878
A. B. Feiting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3406
221 W. Trade St.

Spring Fever has been a visitor on our campus for the past few days. Everybody tried to make his stay
as enjoyable as possible. Old S. Fever is well-known by many of our alumni who will no doubt be interested
to learn of his continued activity (or inactivity) about the Hill.

One James R. might explain the why and wherefore of those empty hair-tonic bottles which roost in close proximity.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas
218 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00
to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing
through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Write for a Catalogue, Prices and Terms
“THE WORLD'S BEST”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Music Warehouses
209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

You Betcha. We love the ladies—when we get a chance.

And Talk for a Month. Let two women meet who use the same patent medicine—and you have friends for life.

Societyites must like to talk better than they like to eat. Last week they announced the meeting time as 6
p. m.

Number Nine Georgia advertises college calendars at one-half price. Looks like a case of bankruptcy.

Greetings! Mr. J. Eris Cassell, of Rock Hill, is spending a few days in our midst.

This Week's Bone. Secretary Fricker of the Polity Club sends out notices that “the History Room will meet in the
History Room at 6:45."

No, Susie, a bank teller isn’t an information clerk.

Well, Well! Alabama Long Number 2 says that a private should address an officer in the fourth person.

Horsed! Fresh—“I want a match!” Sam Story—“I’m your match!" Fresh—“But I want a match with a head on it.”

Who'd a Thunk It? Shavetail Cooper gets shot on military! I mean partner, old Bull was butchered.

We don't know what some folks have heads for—not for ornaments we are sure.

Thanks, Mabel. The following has been received from an awfully good-looking girl at Flora Macdonald College. (We know she’s good-looking
for she writes such a lovely hand.)

Mr. Peanut Parcher:
Dear Sir: We beg to submit the following information: If you wish to play tennis and find you have no
equipment, stamp on the floor and you will have a racket; punch your roommate and lo!—the balls.
Yours truly,
(Signed) Contributor.

The method is good—we worked it, but it’s awfully hard on roommates.

Yea Bot Some one ought to start an agitation to get the government to stock the campus and main street
with fish. Fact! A distinguished Junior remarked that the only way anyone could get a day off at Davidson was
to tear a leaf off the calendar.

Easy, Gertrude. Such anonymous valentines as the following might easily be conceived of...as starting an ugly ripple on the placid
waters of a contented love affair. “Aw! come off your high horse. You're not the only fellow in the world!”
“Don't think I'll throw my heart at you or beg for yours, unfeeling sir! Just let this little fact sink
through: I also am particular!”

Our stenographer is sick—our office boy has struck. Good-day.

Coaching of ‘Doc’ La Far and ‘Jap’ Cumming is progressing nicely. ‘Doc’ urges others to come out for the team.

The military department is running an opposition to the track team. A dozen or so hopeful young aspirants were out
for practice Saturday afternoon: hours 2 to 6.

Prosperity now reigns in Antioch, the town from which Bill Hodgin hails. The town commissioners have recently sold bonds for
the purpose of installing new martin gourds.

INTERNATIONAL POLITY CLUB HEARS DISCUSSION ON THREE NATIONS

The speakers at the meeting of the International Relations Club last Tuesday night were: T. M. Lowry, who gave a
thorough and well-prepared discussion of the present Irish question. A. C. Sumners, who chose as his subject, “Clemenceau.” Mr. Sumners
gave an interesting sketch of Mr. Clemenceau’s life and works. J. R. Jones read his entrance thesis in which he
discussed the “Ethnical background of Mexico.” An informal discussion of problems presented by the speakers followed their presentation to the
club.

The program for the next meeting, which will be held in the History Room, on February 22nd, at 6:45 p.m.,
was announced by C. K. Brown, chairman of the Program Committee. A good meeting is in store, and all members
are urged to be present. The program is as follows:
“Pan-Americanism and Mexico,” by J. Eris Cassell.
“Commercial Mexico,” by J. R. Boulware.
“Progress of Mexico Towards a Stable Government,” by J. M. Gaston.
“Entrance Theses,” by H. White and J. P. Price.
“Current Events,” by W. H. Miley.

SALESMAN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address THE LENOX OIL AND PAINT
CO., Cleveland, Ohio.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get
into such a business selling more than 197 Watkins Products direct to farmers if you own an auto or team
or can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52
years in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co.,
Department C, Winona, Minnesota.

Kodak Finishing
EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE
PRICES
Vest Pocket 4c
2 1-4 x 3 1-4 5c
2 1-2 x 4 1-4 6c
4 x 6 1-2 6c
Developing any size roll 10c
We use glossy paper unless otherwise requested. Cash with order or work will be mailed C. O. D. for negative
for sample print.
Charlotte Photo Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
BREVARD, N.C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes, and classes. Excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys.
Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, - Chapel Hill, N. C.
J. M. MCCONNELL, Associate Director, Davidson, N. C.
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

Director Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready
The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, Feb. 17th, 18th, and 19th
OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
NIPPON DUO
Versatile Enterprises from the Orient
WILLIAM YOUNG AND CHARLES WHEELER
Bachelors of Music
KENO FABLES AND WAGNER
In “TOY FANTASY”
“The Speaker of the House”
MILT COLLINS
In “The Patriot,” an Extra Added Attraction
The Act Extraordinary
Charles B. Middleton and Leora Spellmeyer Present Their Western Comedy, “LONESOME LAND”
