FE Ormond-_----- _ Bibteinilw. | J 2 4 The DAVIDSONIAN . Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association NI FOUNDED
BY CLASS OF '15 “The Livest Wire on the Hill” * Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. 7
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy;
$2.00 the Collegiate Year. All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon
Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. .-- Editor-in-Chief - «4 =. ..Managing Editor Assistant Managing
Editor Assignment Editor ..---Athletic Editor Alumni Editor Exchange Editor J. M. Richards . W. A. Gamble, Jr... H OW. Smith
K. F. Davidson-- -— H. McKeithen..- _ BP. Price... - - ...Forum Editor {. Rk. Doubles- - -. Campus Editor
: tr. YM CLA. Editor r Sprunt._- .. . Social Editor .--Literary Editor Publicity Editor D. MW. Ogden, Ir..--- W.
J. Cooper . REPORTERS’ Fle ton, W. OM. he SIC Jone.) RB hing, \ D Luwov, TN Lone, C G
Mahood, 2. 1. Mate OTT Ci,U B ALanse, te LA Motehell WooM Morris, FEM. Phaitip. AWW, ‘TImller, C D. Wall
all DR Wridima., \ ¢ Wilda. CT, RE Thitzer, R. Hradiord, WZ. Calhoun, M. P. ton, WOM . vnaglas yb.
Dliott, WoT Fewell, kd. Crac.. JS. BUSINESS DEPARTMENT: hes. CURRY . “+: Business Manager bh. T. Waolialh —_. \ 1
Ro we, Manager W. 5. Shepard Yt Buamne - Manner CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: J. C. WOOL... wee eee cee ee ..-.
Circulation Manager HW. WK. Kissell . Not Careulaven Manages C bz. Taller Lee wae Asst. Cirenlation Mamasner Assistants in Circulation
Dept. S C kan I. C Henderson Watt Metain Ko. Price Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.
“The soul of all improvement is the improvement of the soul.” D This week marks the last issue of The
Davidsonian before Commencement. We wish the entire student body success with examinations, and urge that you all stay for the
graduating exercises. We are hoping to see more of our alumni here for Commencement this year than ever before. There
is no other way of keeping in touch with your Alma Mater so effective as an occasional visit to her
campus. uD li we must lose baseball games. may it always be to a team like the one which represented
Citadel here last Monday. The Cadets put up a classy brand of baseball throughout the game and yet displayed the
kind of sportsmanship that is hard to equal. They were the first visiting players who have been big enough to
stand during the playing of “O! Davidson!” This courtesy was appreciated and will not soon be forgotten by any Davidson
man. I er Davidson Club came into existence on our campus, Its membership included every student of the college and
it adopted as its motto the well known slogan, “A Bigger and a Better Davidson,” The ke A BETTER_DAVIDSON. Two
years ago this spring the organization known as the Great- THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921. | Open Forum FRESHMAN EMANCIPATION.
When our coach suggested last fall that the whole student body provide sweaters for the football team as a willing
gift instead of requiring the freshmen to give them, he thereby gave expression to one of a series of ideas
which should take hold on every college man, ideas based on the principle that every man in college should be
considered as a real part of the college and that no one set of men should be made the part
of every unkind of arrogant whim of another set. We are told that hazing is not nearly so bad at
Davidson as it used to be, and we are willing to believe it. If it is becoming less of an
evil it must be due to a growing realization that it is an improper practice. Then, why not abolish it
altogether? Why not recognize that a Freshman is a human being and treat him so? Why not fully emancipate him?
Domination over freshmen is an indication of smallness of caliber. Frequently the Freshman is a better man morally and intellectually
and a cleaner man physically than the upperclassman who tries to show him what college is. The upperclassman who tries
to show him what college is, and once in the world away from the environment that protects the so-called “college
spirit,” would crack under the stress of the very things he makes the Freshman do. The writer does not advocate
putting freshmen in all offices of honor and responsibility, though frequently there are freshmen capable enough to fill them. He
does advocate a rational attitude toward the new men on the campus. Domination over freshmen is almost always unkind and
unbrotherly. Hazing the Freshman and requiring him to do things just because he is afraid of the system and what
he feels will bring down upon him punishment if he refuses to act the way one Davidson man should treat
another and should be beneath the participation of men who claim to be of a type that Davidson stands for.
The Freshman pays just as much for his year’s work as any other man and frequently more because the opportunities
to make money are largely limited to him. The Freshman’s problems are greater than any other man because he is
just learning college ways of study and life and is away from home probably for the first time in his
life. Domination over Freshmen is injurious, not physically here but to the things the man should come here to accomplish.
Freshman class work is without question hard to nearly every man. When he is disturbed in the evening and night
by beatings and prayer meetings, when he is required to run errand after errand his time is taken from what
his parents are paying their money for him to get. The Freshmen on our campus are not given as fair
a chance to make good as we upperclassmen should help them to have; Davidson has a distressingly large percentage of
men to drop out after starting here and a large part of the trouble is due to the men not
being able to get started right. Domination over the Freshmen is not the proper way to make a man of
him. ale per cla first part of this purpose at least has been attained. Whether we have, (the noble PURPOSE
| which the upper: realized the second is a matter for discussion. Of the fact that we have upperclassmen see
the college authorities taken great steps forward in some particulars there can be no doubt, but have we not lagged
behind in others, and if so where should the blame be placed? This is a question which should receive the
earnest attention of every man in college. A year of college work has slipped by as if it were only
a few days. For some of us it is the last to be spent at Davidson; for the rest there
remain one, two, or three years of life on the old campus. It is to this latter class especially, that
this editorial is directed, for it is you who will make the history of Davidson during the next few years.
Whether we realize it or not, each one of us has an important role to play in the life of
the college. Davidson must either be better or worse for our sojourn here. There are some who will argue that
this is not a true statement that the course of affairs here is determined by a few prominent students. This,
however, is not the case. However big a man or a body of men may be, they can accomplish nothing
without your support. A leader must have followers before he can accomplish anything. The attitude of the student body is
almost always reflected in the actions of its officers. Last Sunday night witnessed the inauguration of a new president and
cabinet of the Y.M.C.A. Within the next few days the newly elected student body president and student council will take
the oath of office. That these men are capable of leading us toward the attainment of A Better Davidson has
already been shown, else you would not have selected them as your officers. The question is are they to have
their hands tied by a lack of support, or is the student body going to back them in their efforts
for the right. Is Davidson to be better or worse next year? The responsibility lies with you. What are you
going to do about it?help make a man of him (and plenty of Freshmen need such help), he can do
this in many better and more lasting ways. He can make him a better man physically by taking him for
a run to the gullies or around the track or teaching him tennis or taking him out for football or
baseball or to the gym. If he desires to make him a better man morally and spiritually he can take
him to the Sunday morning Bible class or to the “Y” Service or to the many other religious services available,
and teach him the errors of improper conduct. If he desires to make him a better man intellectually he can
show him how to study some of the college subjects and help to create proper conditions for studying. If he
desires to increase his college spirit he can show him what a real man Davidson makes and can explain the
principles for which Davidson stands before the world. The rising Soph class last spring took action that they would refrain
from hazing. A number did refrain but another (Continued on page 5)

SOUTHERN INTERCOLLEGIATE NEWSPAPER ASS’N. FORMED

Representing their respective newspapers, delegates from the leading colleges of the South convened last weekend at Richmond, Va, and organized
the Southern Intercollegiate Newspaper Association. The convention was held under the auspices of the "Collegiate,” which is the weekly edition
of the University of Richmond. The “Davidsonian” was represented by Doubles. The object of the association is to draw the
collegiate newspapers into closer touch with each other, and to convene each year to discuss the problems which face the
promotion of college journalism. The northeastern colleges have had such an organization for some time and it has proven a
big asset. This is the first attempt to organize colleges throughout the South, and from the enthusiastic beginning, prospects for
a glowing success along journalistic lines are indeed bright.

The first event of the opening day, Friday, 22nd, was the election of a temporary chairman. Mr. Leck, Editor-in-Chief of
the “Collegiate” of University of Richmond, was elected. Mr. Leck was the prime factor in getting the delegates from all
over the South together, under the auspices of his paper. Mr. Winn, of the “OP” publication, was elected clerk of
the convention. Dr. Boatwright of the University of Richmond delivered the address of welcome and was responded to by Mr.
Parker of the “Lopes,” the University of North Carolina periodical. The committees necessary to carry out the work of the
convention were then appointed. Mr. Cotton of Tulane was nominated chairman of the committee on organization. Mr. Doubles, of Davidson,
was appointed chairman of the Resolutions Committee. Mr. John Stewart Bryan, secretary of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, delivered the
opening address at the convention. His talk centered around the fact that the newspaper was the greatest source of publicity
in the world, and the editors of these publications held the reins of public sentiment in their hands. Following this
address, there was a round table discussion concerning the business departments of college newspapers. For an hour, such discussions as
the securing of advertisements, the extension of circulation, the organization of business departments, etc., were indulged in by the delegates.
The morning session adjourned, and the delegates ambled across the spacious University of Richmond campus and guided their steps toward
the Westhampton Woman's College, where a refreshing luncheon was served by the students of that institution. During the afternoon, an
automobile tour of Richmond was taken. Chief among the incidents on this, was the inspection of a press in action.
The delegates had the pleasure of watching the Times-Dispatch run off its afternoon edition. Even though the Gods of Aqua
threatened to pour forth in all their violence, the several scores of delegates assembled around the festive board Friday night
at the banquet. After a delightful pursuit of the delicious food, those present had the pleasure of hearing two most
efficient journalists and speakers. Dr. John W. Cunliffe, director of the Columbia School of Journalism, presented journalism from its theoretical
viewpoint. Following him was Dr. Douglas Freeman, editor of the News-Leader, and premier journalist and orator in the State of
Virginia. He dealt with the practical side of journalism, and expressed his view that the college newspapers were bringing up
the type of editors that the city newspaper has long needed.

The second day's program opened with a spirited talk by Frank M. Dobson, noted coach of the University of Richmond.
Coach Dobson praised the work of the college publications and told how they, and only they, were responsible for putting
the college athletic teams into the prominent place which they should hold in sportdom. He also cautioned sports writers, that
before attempting to write up a contest of any kind, they should know the inside working of that sport. This
day’s round table discussion dealt with the paper, editorially and technically. Problems concerning the style of editorials, the type of
headlines, the heading of departments, advantage of cuts, etc. were discussed in detail. (Continued on page 5)

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Why Not Think?

It is a little thing to do, just to think. Anyone, no matter who, ought to think. Take a little
time each day from the minutes thrown away, spare it from your work or play, stop and think! You will
find the men who fail do not think! Men who find themselves in jail do not think. Half the trouble
that we see, trouble brewed for you and me, probably would never be, if we'd think! Shall we journey hit
or miss, or shall we think? That is not to go along by guess, but rather to ourselves confess, it
would help us more or less if we'd think.

The Varsity and Yale cricket elevens are to meet a combination team from the high schools of Oxford and Cambridge.
The combined Cricket Club, through the influence of Finlay, president of the international board, James Vee, captain and Crimson leader,
and captain of the American team. The baseball teams of Yale University, Logan, has arranged the greatest tour of American
universities that a Japanese team has ever taken. The team will arrive in San Francisco on April 8th and tour
the country, meeting both Harvard and Yale. At present the squad is getting into shape in Hawaii.

If Norma Dare with eyes of Mountain Dew and hair of Golden Glory should pin Three Feathers in her hair,
and Four Roses in her belt, and should run like White Lightning down through the hold of Golden River, I've
to get a Blue Ribbon for her Old Kentucky Corn, would Budweiser? H. W. ‘20. N.C.

The Press Congress of the World is to meet in Honolulu October 4-13. The editors of the province are showing
much interest in it. W. I. Farrington, editor of the Honolulu Star Bulletin is chairman of the general congress committee
on program and entertainment.

Gleeful Co-Eds Seek to Vamp Poor Fresh.

A new thing will soon appear “under the Chapel Hill sun” as the girls, or in other words the Co-Eds
of this institution are going to organize a glee club. The initial members met last Tuesday night, April 5th, for
the purpose of organizing the club. The idea is to get together and learn some short courses and to make
at least one public appearance this year. After the organization has been completed as far as possible and some practice
has been had, the club plans to endeavor to entertain the Freshmen, i.e. gentlemen of the first year class, in
chapel some lazy spring morning when the student committee in charge of chapel arrangements finds that convenient.

If you don’t feel just right. If you can't sleep at night. If you moan and sigh. If your throat
is dry. If you can't smoke or drink. If your grub tastes like ink. If your heart doesn’t beat. If
you've got cold feet. If your head's in a whirl.— Why don't you marry the girl? —Tiger.

Only one per cent of American men are college graduates, yet from this one per cent have come 55 per
cent of our Presidents; 69 per cent of the justices of our Supreme Court; 54 per cent of our Vice-Presidents;
62 per cent of our Secretaries of State; something like 90 per cent of our ministers, and most of our
scientists, philosophers, and statesmen. So in all nations, it is the highly trained men who really shape the destinies of
nations, because they point the way in which the people follow. —The New Era.
