THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921.

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

Established 1079
A. A. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
313 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 348
221 W. Trade St.

BOTH SOCIETIES BEGIN REGULAR WORK NEXT SATURDAY
Phis Held Session as Usual Last Week—Eus Idle.

Program for Eumenean Society, December 15th.
Debate: Resolved, That the attempts of labor unions to control the labor market operate in restraint of trade just as much as the trusts do.
Affirmative: W. T. Elliott, C. D. Tuller, W. A. Gamble, Jr.
Negative: T. L. Fraser, H. M. Morris, G. B. Sorrels
Oration: J. C. McCaskill

Philanthropic Society.
Program for Thursday, January 13, 1920 (Note Change of Date.)
Debate:
Affirmative: W. Smith, D. W. Roberts, J. P. Booth
Negative: M. Dunlap, J. L. Knight, R. M. McGirt
Extemporaneous Debate: C. G. Long, J. F. Clark
Oration: J. A. Poteat

The Phi Society started the New Year with a large attendance and livewire speeches. With the oratory of Freeman, Query, and Murdock McLeod, and the humor of “Bugs” Robinson, the evening was very well spent. The president announced the subject for debate as, “Resolved, That the pardoning power in the state be vested in five men instead of in the Governor alone.” Ralph Freeman discussed the question from the economic standpoint in that the Governor takes up too much time when left to do the job alone. He also called attention to the fact that sentiment may be a more powerful factor with one man than with five men. On the rebuttal, he attacked Hill’s speech pretty severely. Hadley Hill, first for negative, based his arguments on unbroken customs and mercy for those condemned. C. G. Brown, speaking second for the affirmative, called attention to the fact that this was a burden which should be removed from the Governor's shoulders. Query then delivered a speech full of oratory and pathos showing how unnecessary this five-man commission was. L. P. Burney, with little chance for preparation, made a “noble effort,” according to the critic. He emphasized very forcibly his colleagues’ points. W. K. McKain, last for the negative, brought out the fact that precedent showed the present pardon system had not been abused except in a few isolated instances and was therefore acceptable. The decision was two for the affirmative. Charles W. Robinson stated the subject for extemporaneous debate as, “Resolved, That solid geometry should be an entrance requirement at Davidson.” In a very clear way, he showed that this was properly a high school subject, and besides, one loses a whole fall term by...

DR. HOOD ATTENDS CONFERENCE DURING HOLIDAYS
Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Psychology, has had a busy Christmas recess, spending the first part of the holidays at Northwestern University, Evanston, Ill., where he was formerly director of the School of Salesmanship. From Evanston, Dr. Hood went to Chicago, where he attended a meeting of the Psychological Association, and then proceeded to New York, where he represented Dr. Martin, who was prevented from attending the meeting of the Association of American Colleges. Though a busy Christmas, this must have been a pleasant one for Dr. Hood and his family, in the meeting of friends and the renewing of former acquaintances. They returned to Davidson on Monday, January 11.

LIBRARY NEWS
Many new books have been added to the library recently. Probably the most important, however, are those of fiction. This new addition includes the following:
The Long Chance—Peter B. Kyne.
Mary Marie—Eleanor H. Porter.
The Eldest Son—Archibald Marshall.
The Purple Heights—Marie Conway Oemler.
The Valley of Silent Men—James Oliver Curwood.
The Prairie Mother—Arthur Stringer.
The Devil's Paw—E. Phillips Oppenheim.

THE 1921 QUIPS AND CRANKS.

Make weather like this seem like a balmy springtime. They are comfortable and attractive, and they cost less money than an Overcoat.
Carolina Sporting Goods Company
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN
5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon) Phone 3248

If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it.
Brady Printing Company
The College Printers
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P.M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

(Continued from page 1)

Lord, I have been giving short weight in my store,” or “I have been flirting with the milliner,” every man and woman in the church would listen with bated breath. Now if you have any clever hunches or suggestions to claim that the Annual this year will be radically different, but all the claims that we make will be underestimated, as we know that the final test is the acid test. When you examine this book you are going to say, “The Management Told the Truth.” Of course, there are going to be a number of interesting humorous features in the joke section that will be almost as exciting as what Deacon Smith could say if he would. To tell them here would spoil a good thing. Wait until the book is out.

Perhaps some of you are wondering why there is such an urgent call for money at this time of the year and it is only right that you should know. We are letting our cash on hand and funds available stand as a guaranty for our printing and engraving contracts and we must have the money in hand to do this. Now, don't think that I am going to rave about the high cost of living, or loving, or shine, for though all that enters our new home, designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven thousand square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results. When in Charlotte we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer on printing problems that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
C. S. MATTHEWS, Agent

“The House of Service”

Write for Catalogue, Prices and Terms

Fred Smith, for the negative, showed that students coming from cities like his would be conditioned in every case if solid geometry were required upon entrance. Both men came back strong on the rebuttal with ridicule of each other's pet points. The decision was two for the affirmative.

Murdock McLeod delivered a very instructive oration on the vast undeveloped resources of Mexico. The Society voted to change the time for meeting from Saturday night to Thursday night to take effect at once, so that the next regular meeting will be Thursday night, January 13, 1921.

NEW STUDENTS.

Miss Annabelle Readling, Cornelius.
Mr. R. L. Hall, 14 Chambers.
Mr. B. L. Team, 12 South Cottage.
Mr. E. P. McCaskill, 16 Chambers.
Mr. J. D. Steed, Smith's.

Dr. and Mrs. Grey gave a family house party during the holidays. Among those present were Mrs. J. M. Query, Mr. Chas. Grey and family, and Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Grey.

C. M. McCaskill.