FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

E. CASSELL............................................. Editor-in-Chief
J. M. RICHARDS.................................... Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND................................. Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE............................................. Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUB........................................... Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN............................... Alumni Editor
C. McCASKILL.................................... Exchange Editor
R. BOULWARE.................................... Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP...................................... Campus Editor
D. W. ROBERTS.................................. Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL............................................. Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.............................. Literary Editor
R. McILWAINE................................... Photographer

CLUB REPORTERS:
Bailey, J. C.
King, G. D.
Ogden, D. H.
Bitzer, R.
Lacy, T. A.
Ormond, A. C.
Cooper, W. J.
Long, C. G.
Phillips, J. W.
Cunningham, C. E.
Mahood, D. L.
Sprunt, J.
Davidson, R. F.
Mauze, G. W.
Summers, A. C.
Gamble, W. A.
Mitchell, A. M.
Tuller, C. D.
Morris, H. M.
Wool, J. C.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS............................ Business Manager
E. A. NASH........................................ Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY....................................... Assistant Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
.......................................................... Circulation Manager
.......................................................... Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“He who lives more lives than one,
More deaths than one must die.”

It would seem that the athletic coaching system of our college is adept at training its coaches along matrimonial lines. Congratulations to Coaches Grey and Hengeveld.

We admire the man who, when he learns that he is wrong in his beliefs and plans, has the courage to acknowledge it.

The athletic coaching system of our college seems to be skillful in training its coaches along matrimonial lines. Congratulations to Coaches Grey and Hengeveld.

We hear that third floor Watts has been turned into a dancing pavilion by the inhabitants thereof. The reaction of the World War has hit Davidson with stunning force.

WATCH YOUR STEPS.

Much has already been said concerning the students making paths across the campus. The short cut from Rumple was made in spite of these protests, and now it seems as if there is soon to be a new one from Chambers to Shearer Chapel. We fail to understand the students who will deliberately mar the beauty of this campus. They cannot offer a good reason for making this new path. It is hard to believe that it is being done because the students are so anxious to get to their classes. Thoughtlessness is the only excuse that we can possibly see, and sometimes we believe this is worse than none. The new path is now becoming very noticeable, and the only remedy is to desist from this practice immediately. The appeal is made direct to every man that he consider the direction of his footsteps in order that our campus may not be dissected by numerous paths.

We hesitate to speak in a criticizing manner of the “D” Club, for we recognize that this is composed of those men who have done much for their college. It is our belief, however, that wrong tactics are pursued along a certain line. It is immaterial to the student body what treatment an initiate receives at the hand of this organization, for everybody knows that things will not be carried too far. What we do believe should be changed is the attitude of this club to outsiders. We are behind them when it comes to making any student give a yell for the wearers of the “D” and we have no sympathy for the man who will refuse to render this honor to the men who fight for him on the athletic field. He needs something to wake him up. Aside from this, we do not think the “D” Club should go, and a promiscuous use of the harsh methods now employed is to be condemned. What has been said above is by way of constructive criticism, for if this practice is continued, the influence of this honorary organization will be seriously impaired.

AN OPPORTUNITY FOR DECISIVE ACTION.

To become a leader in the world, the college student must sooner or later make his decision as to his life’s work. Unless he does this, his career is sure to be a constant changing one, marked by an ever-waning sphere of influence. To say it more plainly, the tendency is that he will become a “drifter” in the great affairs of life.

The choice of one’s life work is no easy task. For most of us, it takes careful, persistent consideration and thought plus an abundant amount of faith to see us successfully through the most important task that befalls the lot of man. Realizing how essential it is for a man to find his proper place in the world, our Y. M. C. A. is promoting the Life Work Conference to be held here the latter part of this week. Full information concerning this meeting has already been given elsewhere. We would only add that this should be a golden opportunity for many to settle that burning question once and for all. The leader is fully capable of the duty that lies before him. Play fair with yourself, men, and give Dr. Thompson the chance to help you on to a life of real service for others.

GO TO IT.

It is a very easy matter to stand on the side-lines and criticize, but it is a very different affair to take off your coat and take a man’s part in the struggle. The Student Council has had to experience the unpleasant situation of being in the fight and having many on the sidelines criticizing. They know that they are making mistakes and not doing all they should, but they are trying to remedy them and would appreciate and welcome any helpful, constructive criticism. So, all that is said in this article is not in any way critical but is thrown out with the hope that it will help in bettering conditions on the campus. The writer is not a member of the Council.

The Student Council should be the leader of the many student activities on the campus. Each man on that body has been chosen to his place because his fellow students trust him and believe that he best exemplifies those things which they stand for. The role of the Council is not merely that of a police force, to see that the laws and constitution of the Student Government are carried out, but it should ever be to lead in new movements which would be for the betterment of the college and of the individual student. They should make it clearly known to all that they are only standing for those things which are for the best interest of Davidson.

There are a great many matters in which the Council could and should take immediate action, but the eight that stand out most prominently are:

(a) Start having bi-weekly meetings of the Council as called for by the Constitution of the Student Government. There may not be legislative and judicial matters to be decided at each meeting, but these gatherings can be well spent in discussing and planning for the future policy and conduct of the men on the campus.

(b) Discuss and formulate plans whereby a higher standard of scholarship will be required on the campus. The startling figures given out by the faculty show that entirely too many men are failing in their work. What is the cause, lack of study, lack of grey matter in the brain, or what? The main cause is lack of incentive. To pass his work with one or two points to spare is the ambition of entirely too many. A tradition should be implanted here, whereby the man who does not pass his work is frowned down upon, whereby every man will be expected toAt least pass the majority of his tickets with a fair grade. Then the man who comes here will see that it is up to him to study and cannot do otherwise.

(c) Work for closer co-operation between the faculty and student body. In any college and university, there is bound to be friction, though at Davidson we do not find much and yet there is a good bit at times. Each is misrepresented to the other. The Council should act as the go-between and do away with this misunderstanding as much as possible. All matters from the students as a whole to the faculty should go through their hands, and vice versa.

(d) Vivify and enlarge the Honor System. Each man on the campus should be made to feel that he is on his honor to act as a gentleman while he is here, and if he breaks a ruling of the Student Body he is at the same time breaking to a greater or lesser extent his own personal honor. The Honor System works well with regard to reviews and examinations, but its field should be widened and deepened.

(e) Take some definite stand on the conduct of a student “off the hill.” Is a man violating the Constitution when he goes to a dance in Charlotte and gets drunk? Up to this time, no definite statement has been made and there is a mist hanging around the whole affair which should be cleared up.

(f) Formulate and enforce some methods by which all unnecessary noises on the campus after supper will be done away with. The time after supper is devoted to study and should be barred from outside disturbances. How can a man do any hard, concentrated studying when across the way a victrola is playing or some fellow is learning to pick a mandolin? Under the old constitution, there was a clause covering this, but it was left out of the revision and certainly should be reinserted.

(g) Put the Damage Committee on a working basis. There is entirely too much needless breaking and injuring of college property going on. Men will casually throw an apple through a window light, knowing that it will be paid for by the general damage fee and will not come out of his pocket. This, too, must be placed under the Honor System. Each man must feel that he is bound to report any damage to the Damage Committee so that they can see that the cost of repair falls upon the breaker and not upon all the students. This is the only fair and right way to handle the situation.

(h) Enforce the Freshmen regulations. Why was it that only 90 men were present at the Randolph-Macon debate, when the whole class was expected to be there? This and other matters should be looked into. It is against the Constitution for a Freshman to carve his initials in any public place, and yet it was done this year to the knowledge of the Council and no action was taken. There is a big work ahead to be done, but it must be done if we wish to press forward, and it is to the members of the Student Council that the students look for leadership. Let those at the helm guide aright and the rest of us will follow gladly.

P. J.

We Want 6 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

WHY NOT?

The faculty has put the R. O. T. C. in the curriculum here and has made the attendance on its classes compulsory. There are more men taking the classes than any other ticket on the hill. Yet the schedule committee made no provision for it in their schedule for this year. Over 300 men have to turn in a list of their vacant periods and the best they can do is take the class at a very inconvenient period. Most of the tickets have two or three optional periods so why not the R. O. T. C.? If the R. O. T. C. is here to stay it should have the same consideration that the other college tickets have.

We Want 8 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

CHRISTMAS AT DAVIDSON.

The Yuletide festivities at Davidson were by no means neglected. The dozen or so students who remained on the campus gathered themselves together in South Cottage, where they spent their time in profitable ways. Some played tennis, some read and some hunted assiduously, and some took excursions to Charlotte and Mooresville. A few went visiting, and it is reported that some even studied. Each night a student body meeting was held for the election of officers. The lucky fellow who had fallen heir to the greatest quantity of “feed” during the previous 24 hours was always elected president.

On Christmas eve the Sunday School Christmas exercises were held in Shearer Hall and were well attended. Dr. John Moore and Dr. Richards, with the true Christmas spirit, did much toward enlivening the holidays by entertaining the young people of Davidson at their homes. The Davidson Orchestra, under the supervision of Mrs. Lingle, gave a party on New Year’s eve which was enjoyed very much. At 12 o'clock p.m., December 31, 1920, the College bell and Methodist Church bell united their melodious tones in announcing the beginning of what we all hope and intend shall be the most successful year Davidson has ever known.

Most of the college papers are finding it necessary to reduce the size of their publications for an issue or two after the holidays. The Richmond Collegian, however, is putting out the same high-class publication that she has been doing all the year. The last issue carries a well-balanced front page, very little advertising, and a great deal of news.

University of North Carolina.

The Tar Heel, of the University of North Carolina, is now publishing a four-page, six-column, semi-weekly. The preliminaries for the Penn debate have been held, and C. T. Boyd, C. D. Beers, and T. C. Taylor have been selected to represent Carolina in this forensic contest. These debaters will meet Pennsylvania at Chapel Hill, January 22.

Wake Forest College.

The enrollment of the spring session at Wake Forest has fallen off slightly, due to the depressed financial condition of the country. The prospects of the spring term are, however, very bright. The department of Philosophy has been extended, until now a total of six courses is offered in this department, enabling students to specialize in this work.

University of Tennessee.

Dr. H. A. Morgan, President of the University of Tennessee, was slightly injured last Friday afternoon, when he was struck and knocked down by an automobile as it entered a Gay Street garage. Professor W. W. Lewis, professor of Spanish at Tennessee, is planning an extensive tour of Europe, the coming summer. He is to be accompanied by a number of University students, who are interested in obtaining facts concerning French and Spanish life.

A total of 106 Cornell students has been found guilty of fraud in their June examinations by the Committee on Student Affairs.

A four-year course in agricultural journalism, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science in agriculture, has taken its place among the other collegiate departments of Iowa State College.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Rev. R. M. Phillips, 1913, of Pittsboro, N. C., has accepted the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at Glenn Springs, S. C., recently vacated by Rev. T. A. Beckett, 1912.

Rev. John Richards Hay, 1910, was married to Miss Sarah Craig at Chester, S. C., on Wednesday, December 29, 1920.

L. C. McAskill, 1919 is now with Home Light and Power Company, at Hartsville, S. C. Coker College is also at Hartsville; “Mac” likes his location.

We Want 980 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

Men prefer the pipe to any other form of smoking. There’s comfort, contentment, real satisfaction and economy in a good pipe. WDC Pipes give you this, and more. A special seasoning process makes the genuine French briar bowl break in sweet and mellow, at four nearest dealer’s, at your price. WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK, WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MAKERS. Pick a good shape.