THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

LITERARY NEWS

—————

FRATERNITIES HAVE MANY GUESTS AT SENIOR SPEAKING.

Among the many visitors on the hill during the past week, the following were guests of the different fraternities:

K. A.
Miss Martin, N.C.
Miss Elizabeth Brown, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Lila Walker, St. Augustine, Fla.
Miss Lulu Stockard, Raleigh, N.C.
Miss Kate Page, Pinehurst, N.C.
Miss Virginia Loving, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Jefferine Arthur, Columbia, S.C.
Miss Georgia Harris, Spartanburg, S.C.
Miss Victoria Earle, Kroft, N.C.
Miss Eloise Davidson, Spartanburg, S.C.
Miss Myrtle Malerus, Spartanburg, S.C.
Mrs. W. J. Martin, Davidson, N.C.
Mrs. J. M. McConnell, Davidson, N.C.

SAE
Miss Margaret Pugh, Lexington, S.C.
Miss Ruth Hunter, Lexington, S.C.
Miss Harriette Hughes, Laurens, S.C.
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Thompson, Mooresville, N.C.
Miss Emily Maye, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Laura Tillett, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Faith Price, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Helen Molkey, Lancaster, S.C.
Miss Rachel Willington, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Miss Dell Henderson, Winston-Salem, N.C.

BOII
Miss Dorothy Powell, Charlotte, N.C.

BACHELORS
Miss Margaret McCully, Anderson, S.C.
Miss Katherine Hargrave, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Lillian Johnson, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Helen Gaddy, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Sidney Caldwell, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Georgiana Caldwell, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Putt Dudley, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Mary Howe, Belmont, N.C.

LIBRARY HAS RECEIVED SEVERAL NEW VOLUMES.

The cataloging of 300 books given to Davidson last spring by Mr. F. B. McDowell, 1869, has just recently been
completed. The library is considerably strengthened by this generous gift. While many of the standard books are duplicates of what
the library has, with the increasing number of students duplicates will be needed more frequently than heretofore.

During the past week the library has received direct from the publishers, a six-volume set, The Business Men’s Commercial Law
Library. The author is Dr. Albert S. Bolles, lecturer on Commercial Law and Banking at Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. This
handsome set of books comes to the library as a donation from Mr. J. C. Harper of Winston-Salem.

Another gift of the week was "American Principles" by Dr. Lowe, New Orleans.

TWO PROFESSORS ENJOY A WEEK-END DEER HUNT.

“Come, doctor,” said the lawyer to the physician recently, as the strains of a song which he had heard last
spring kept ringing in his ears, “A-hunting we will go.” Ah, you have guessed it! This compact was formed between
Prof. A. Currie and Dr. Wilson MacConnell. Dropping his weighty volumes of Blackstone, Professor Currie heaved a sigh of relief
and contentment and prevailed upon Doctor MacConnell to lay aside his saw, axe, etc., leave the iodine and pills in...

MITCHELL COLLEGE GIRLS.
(Continued from page 1)

Mary Hamiter; Korea, Miss Lelia Kistler; China, Miss Lucile Miller; lina colleges, making a deep impression at each. It was
through the efforts of L. P. Burney that it was given here. The great interest taken in it at Davidson
was shown...

CHAMBERS BUILDING EMPTY
(Continued from page 1)

Hall brought the faculty and student body into a meeting which cemented their friendship and during which the fighting spirit
of the Davidson Wildcats was brought forth with vigor. Speeches inspiring an undying loyalty to Davidson were made by various
members of the faculty and the student body. The fire-stricken students were received with open arms by their fellow-students, patronizing
in other dormitories, by the faculty in their homes, and by the townspeople. Practically all of them were soon fixed
up in their new quarters and possessed with a determination to...

Loss from Fire Cannot Always be Averted, but Indemnity Against Loss Can be Secured

McALISTER CARSON, Manager
Independence Trust Company
Insurance Department
Phone 3940

With students, faculty, and alumni, the destruction of the historic old Chambers building and its rare contents, we are happy
to be the agent for a number of large Fire Insurance Companies and other Davidson property, whose losses will be
paid promptly to assist in carrying out the already formulated plans for a “Greater Davidson.”

The fire was the most spectacular ever seen in this section of the country. The heart-pine timbers cut from our
virgin forests over 60 years ago burned with great fierceness and brilliancy. The glare in the sky was seen by
persons living many miles away. The proximity of Mooresville and Davidson made it possible to secure the aid of the
fire apparatus of that town. Mayor J. O. Walker, of Charlotte, over the telephone and offered to send help immediately,
but...

Miss Katherine Newson, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Margaret Overton, Salisbury, N.C.
Miss Nellie Peck White, Rock Hill, S.C.
Miss Dena Thompson, Salisbury, N.C.
Miss Emile Snyder, Salisbury, N.C.
Miss Marion Ramsey, Salisbury, N.C.
Miss Gilden Wylie, Lancaster, S.C.
Miss Jessie Matthews, Calhoun, S.C.
Miss Edith Gilchrist, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Mary Nelson, Lenoir, N.C.
Miss Helen Young, Asheville, N.C.
Miss Margaret McCaulay, Rockingham, N.C.
Miss Elizabeth Rountree, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Miss Esther Ifird, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Miss Mary Bradham, Newbern, S.C.
Miss Mildred Little, Greensboro, N.C.
Miss Mary Harrison, Lenoir, N.C.
Miss Katherine Armstrong, Greensboro, N.C.
Miss Virginia Abbott, Charlotte, N.C.
Miss Adele Lee, Macon, Ga.

...further delay to Raeford, where they...the chief nurse,” and the building was so far gone it was deemed useless. Students
prevented the two barracks and the biology laboratory and armory, located a short distance from Chambers building, from catching fire
by dashing buckets of water on the roofs.

The fire came as a sad close to the most successful Seniors Week in the history of the college. On
Thursday morning, even though there was “beaucoup pleuie,” at the sound of the huntsman’s horn they started off in their
1920 Egg-beater twin-two and flivvered away. On passing through Pinehurst they heard much commotion and upon questioning one of the
inhabitants of said “petite ville” they learned that the Wildkittens and N.C. State Freshmen were meeting in mortal combat. “By
all means stop this motor and let us take unto ourselves a seat in the grandstand where we may take
cognizance of this mighty struggle,” said they. Alas, the game ended by Davidson’s squad being defeated.

Setting out once more on their journey, with hopes that they might have better luck in their project than the
Wildkittens, they reached Raeford ere nightfall, and took up their abode there. After taking much rest during the night they
were off to the hunt early Friday morning. Although the day’s hunt was rather unsuccessful in a way, they saw
three deer, but curses, the deer saw them first and sped away with the fleetness of the wind!

Doctor MacConnell returned on Saturday, but Professor Currie stayed until Monday, making an address to the Men’s Club of Raeford
on Sunday afternoon.

However, I have found a solution for this. I have a man coming with the latest styles in Ready-made Clothing
as well as Made-to-Measure. A representative of the U.S. Woolen Mills will be in my room at 3 La. Tuesday
afternoon and Wednesday, December 7th and 8th, with Suits and Overcoats that anyone will be proud to wear and with
prices that all of us can reach. Come over and look at this line. Time—December 6-7, Place—3 La. (Adv.)

Among the older Davidson alumni who came up during the fire Monday morning were R. M. Miller, Baxter Davidson, and
Mayor Walker, of Charlotte, and Dr. B. O. Clark, of Salisbury. Alumni noted on the Hill for Senior Week were:
John Gaston, '21; J.P. Taylor, ’21; Pat Gilchrist, ex-’22, and Joe Crayton.

Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N.C.
Agents Exclusive Cleaners
Nunnally, Hollingsworth and
Mary Garden Candies
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor,
peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.
Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel
Second Floor Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Get Your Clothes Cleaned
The South’s largest
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men

We have had Ikeys of every description on the Hill this Fall, by the packed audience and the intense silence
in which all eagerly listened, Mexico, Miss Agnes Moore; Japan, Miss Margaret Morrison; Africa, Miss Louise Chester. Miss Elizabeth Kirk
represented the mountain girl and Miss Lula Mae Smith the Christian student. Miss Mary Gilliland, the director of the pageant,
deserves quite a bit of credit for her faithful and energetic work. Although the girls had only ten days in
which to practice, she had them so well trained that not the slightest mistake occurred.

This pageant was written by the N.C. C. W. Volunteer Band. It has been given in several North Carolina locations.
