THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

DR. HOOD’S SUNDAY SCHOOL LESSON FOR DECEMBER 4
(Read Acts 28:1-16).

1. In our last lesson we saw how Paul acted under trying conditions of panic and in this we see
how he acted when he came ashore.
(a) Paul busied himself helping to get things comfortable.
(b) The incident of the viper shows Paul’s nerve, as we may say, in contradistinction to courage. We may regard
his escape from injurious or mortal consequences, as miraculous, or as owing to his presence of mind.

2. How Paul behaved under temptation to accept worshipful homage.

3. The effect of the incident of the viper upon the inhabitants of the island.

4. We also are struck with the kindness of the people. Just as men would treat shipwrecked crews today, we
find them doing so in the case before us.
(a) Kindness of the common people.
(b) Kindness of the official class. Compare and contrast with today.

5. Final landing in Italy and the ending of the long journey at Rome.
(a) Paul’s reception.
(b) Special mark of favor.

WORK IN INDIA DISCUSSED BY VOLUNTEER BAND SUNDAY

The regular meeting of the Volunteer Band was held in the gymnasium on Sunday morning, the topic for discussion being
“The Work of the Church in India.” The most interesting feature of the meeting was a talk by J. C.
Wool on the work of Mr. Higginbottom, a great agricultural missionary. Mr. Higginbottom graduated at Ohio State University, became professor
of Economics at a Hindu University, and was later made the head of the agricultural department of India. His motto
was: “Give us this day our daily bread,” and he spent his life in giving bread to the people of
India. On account of a limited amount of time, all the business of the week, the election of officers, and
the approval of the constitution, was postponed until the following Sunday.

MASON FIELD IN ATLANTA FOR REGIONAL “Y” COUNCIL

Mason D. Fields left on Thursday for Atlanta to attend the annual meeting of the Southern Regional Council of the
Y. M. C. A. This council is composed of students and student secretaries from all the Southern States and meets
in Atlanta each year to decide questions of policy, finance, and program, for the Southern Collegiate Associations. The plans for
Blue Ridge are also discussed and outlined at this meeting. Dwight Chalmers, being the only secretary in a denominational college
in the South, is also a member of this council, but was unable to attend this meeting. W. N. Hicks,
president of the Y. M. C. A. at N.C. State, is the other delegate from North Carolina. Bland Roberts, who
spent two days here last week, is retiring president of the Council. Fields will make a report of his trip
to the Y Cabinet upon his return.

MISS DOROTHY FINLAYSON ENTERTAINS OFFICERS OF “C”

The evening of November 22nd saw a delightful entertainment given by Miss Dorothy Finlayson, sponsor of C Company, to her
officers. The sponsors of the other companies of the R. O. T. C. were also present as well as the
captains of the other companies and the battalion officers. The principal occupation of the evening was that of card playing,
and many and interesting were the games played. Miss Eloise Martin won the greatest number of games and was awarded
the prize. Besides this, other forms of entertainment claimed their share of attention. At the conclusion of the evening, delicious
refreshments, in the form of fruit punch and cake, were served. The whole occasion was one of enjoyment to all
concerned and the officers of Miss Finlayson’s company declared that with such a sponsor “C” should lead them all.

Interesting Lecture Is Given at Meredith College.

Raleigh, N. C., No. 22 (Meredith)—On Monday evening, November 21st, Prof. Edgar J. Banks, noted archaeologist, lectured to the faculty
and students ofMeredith on “A Thousand Miles Down the Tigris River.” The lecture was well given and illustrated at intervals
by slides of the scenes visited by Professor Danks. “Hack” Murray, ex-’21, and his bride were here from Nashville, Tenn.,
to spend the weekend. Miss Laxton, of Charlotte, was the guest of her uncle, Professor Erwin, for the weekend.

Hittorf or Crookes Tubes: How Were X-Rays Discovered?

Sir James Mackenzie Davidson visited Professor Roentgen to find out how he discovered the X-rays. Roentgen had covered a vacuum
tube, called a Hittorf or Crookes tube, with black paper so as to cut off all its light. About four
yards away was a piece of cardboard coated with a fluorescent compound. He turned on the current in the tube.
The cardboard glowed brightly. Sir James asked him: “What did you think?” “I didn’t think, I investigated,” said Roentgen. He
wanted to know what made the cardboard glow. Only planned experiments could give the answer. We all know the practical
result. Thousands of lives are saved by surgeons who use the X-rays.

VAUDEVILLE PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2, 3

OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
ORNA AND PARTNER
Novelty Cyclists
FLORENCE BRADY
The Personality Girl
LEWIS & NORTON
“Touring from Coast to Coast,” A Satire in Four Acts.
BROOKS & MORGAN
A Hilarious Comedy Offering.
DAN FITCH’S AFRICAN OPERA
“IN TWO SCENES”
Attraction Extraordinary
Scene 1--The Opera
Scene 2--The Land of Old Black Joe.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45. Featuring the new 1-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes.

HATS, FURNISHINGS, SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists.

Later on, one of the scientists in the Research Laboratory of the General Electric Company became interested in a certain
phenomenon sometimes observed in incandescent lamps. Others had observed it, but he, like Roentgen, investigated. The result was the discovery
of new laws governing electrical conduction in high vacuum. Another scientist in the same laboratory saw that on the basis
of those new laws he could build a new tube for producing X-rays more effectively. This was the Coolidge X-ray
tube which marked the greatest advance in the X-ray art since the original discovery by Roentgen.

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music, and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
218 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N.C.

Thus, scientific investigation of a strange phenomenon led to the discovery of a new art, and scientific investigation of another
strange phenomenon led to the greatest improvement in that art. It is for such reasons that the Research Laboratories of
the General Electric Company are continually investigating, continually exploring the unknown. It is new knowledge that is sought. But practical
results follow in an endless stream, and in many unexpected ways.

General Electric Company
Schenectady, N.Y.

SUCCESS
Many college men are going into life insurance as a profession and are making good. The Southern Life and Trust
Company is a Southern institution, operating in Southern territory. The Multiple line of this Company will enable you to tie
up with a going concern and get you fitted into the line of work to which you will be best
suited. Write us.

Southern Life and Trust Company
HOME OFFICE
GREENSBORO, N.C.
A. W. McAlister, President
Arthur Watt, Secretary
H. B. Gunter, Third Vice-President and Agency Manager
Capital $1,000,000.00
