2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

SPANISH CLUB IS TO GIVE REWARD FOR SPANISH WORK

At the semi-monthly meeting of El Club Español last Tuesday night, it was voted by the members of the club to give a suitable reward to the Freshman making the highest grade in Spanish 1 for the year. It is hoped by the club and Professor Fleagle that the Freshman members of the Spanish 1 classes will show an increased interest in their work in Spanish and make an effort to win the reward.

Messrs. Cunningham and Doubles, of the Davidson chapter, installed the Beta Alpha Chapter of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity at the University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla. The following members of the E. K. Chemical Club at that institution were initiated as charter members of the chapter: Messrs. F. R. Weedon, A. Crago, K. W. Schwartz, H. M. Massey, D. E. Williams, O. M. Berg, R. P. Perkins, C. E. Morgan.

On Thursday and Friday of this week, D. Golden Quill Serves as Incentive for Reporters

SENIOR SCHOLARSHIP PLAN WAS QUOTED INCORRECTLY

Plan for Loan Fund Not Presented to Seniors in Way Reported.

Through error, the write-up of the alumni loan fund plan reported in last week’s paper as having been launched by the present Senior class exceeded the actual facts in the case, and The Davidsonian is glad to make correction. In the first place, information is given that the first paragraph was in error as no definite action on any matter was taken. Coach Grey merely presented some propositions to the class to see what they thought of them, intending that definite decision, if reached at all, should come later. In the second place,

JOHNNY ADAMS IS ELECTED ASST. BASKETBALL MANAGER

Sigma Upsilon Promotes Work in Literature Here

Last Monday after chapel at a meeting of the Athletic Association, Johnny Adams was elected assistant manager of basketball for the coming season. The others who were nominated by the Athletic Council for this office were: J. D. Bernhardt, D. H. Ogden, R. P. Alexander, S. R. Sloan. The election was necessitated by the resignation of H. H. Smith, who, after he had been elected manager of football for next year, felt that he had more than he could do, and resigned.

Class Football Holding At- Honorary Fraternity Has Good Men in Membership.

The Sigma Upsilon is an honorary fraternity which fosters the appreciative study and original creation of literature by college men. Incidentally, it encourages work for the college publications, and it brings the leading literary men of the campus together in a social way. There are at present 21 chapters of Sigma Upsilon, scattered all through the Southland and as far west as Utah and Oregon. These chapters are administered by a general council of which, as

This is the third chapter to be installed. Foreseeing the need of an honorary organization of this kind in the smaller institution, the fraternity was founded at Davidson in January, 1920, by L. P. Good, M. A. Siske, and M. R. Doubles. Since that time, the local chapter has become greatly strengthened by the initiation of honor chemistry students and today the organization at Davidson is the livest function of the chemical department. It has been a great aid in assisting the department to establish the newly installed change of curriculum and today is bending all efforts to the maintenance of a high standard in these. The honor men of the upper two classes, who compose the fraternity’s membership, are assisting materially in setting straight the men beginning chemistry in their many problems, and as a result, the enrollment in this department is today the largest in the history of the college. The second chapter was installed at N. C. State College, Raleigh, N. C., in February, 1921, and since then has flourished exceedingly. The chemical faculty at this institution also see the great help it has been in inducing interest in the department and they are enthusiastically supporting the work. The chapter is very much alive and is accomplishing great things in its line of work. The installation of the third chapter at this time, at the University of Florida, marks an epoch in the life of the organization. It is now ranked among the honorary scientific fraternities and from now on will hold an important place in this field. The fraternity is the only one of its type. The other two large fraternities are limited to institutions where an extensive research department is maintained and they also include other branches of science in their membership. Gamma Sigma Epsilon is rapidly filling in the breach and is bringing to the leading universities the proposition of its honorary scholastic fraternity. Many of the South’s leading institutions have taken the matter up and are in active communication with the fraternity and it seems only a matter of time before the order will flourish throughout the South.

Rev. W. L. Boggs, father of W. L. Boggs, Jr., was on the hill Saturday in the interest of the Presbyterian Standard.

Sojourners at the Infirmary during the past week were: J. R. Beall, H. L. Johnson, F. C. Thames, and Frank Shaw.

Pat Robson, ’19, who has been teaching in the Darlington School, Rome, Ga., is expected home Saturday to spend the holidays with his mother, Mrs. C. B. Robson.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Christmas Greetings to all my children

Seven Quills Awarded Each Year to Members of Club.

The Order of the Golden Quill was founded in 1920 to give recognition to the faithful reporters who had made possible the phenomenal growth of the reportorial part of The Davidsonian in that year. When the constitution of the Reporters’ Club was revised in 1921, it was provided that seven men should be chosen for this honor each year by the managing editor and the president of the Reporters’ Club, the awards being made at Junior Speaking. Only members of the Reporters’ Club are eligible. Seven more men were dubbed Wearers of the Golden Quill in 1921, and one or two honorary wearers were accepted, among whom was Dave Roberts, the real founder of the order. It should be understood that this order is not a fraternity, such as Sigma Upsilon or Delta Pi Kappa, but is based entirely on merit and is organized on much the same basis as the “D” Club.

COACH HENGEVELD TRAINING PROSPECTIVE WILDCAT FIVE

Two of Last Year’s Men and Many Likely Contenders Out.

As a culmination of the most successful class basketball season in the history of Davidson, 30 men answered the first call of Coach Hengeveld last week for varsity practice. Although no games will be played till after the Christmas holidays, the atmosphere is saturated with the “Old Wildcat” basketball enthusiasm and it is evident that the Wildcat varsity this year will be one that will uphold past records. Captain Pat Crawford is the most conspicuous man on the floor, and it will be around this stalwart guard that Coach Hengeveld will develop his “lightning” squad. The only other letter man who will occur, it is certain that Nappy will constitute a unit of the ’22 quintette. It would be impossible to attempt a forecast of the line-up. Price, Ormond, Mallory, Ballard, Boggs, DeArman, Gentry, George Mauze, and others, are showing up especially well. Work till Christmas will be elementary, but vital to the success of the team, and every effort is being made by Coach Hengeveld, assisted by John Schenck, to work the men into shape. It is evident that the team will be light in weight, but the system which Coach has up his sleeve will function so as to best offset this handicap.

MANY NEW BOOKS RECENTLY RECEIVED BY THE LIBRARY

The Davidson College Library has recently received the following books: Lombard Street, by Bagehot; Omoo, by Melville and Moby; Dick, by Melville; Half Hours, by Barrie (four plays); Mirrors of Washington, Mirrors of Downing Street, and Life of Queen Victoria, by Strachey; and Her Father's Daughter, by Porter. The College Library is filled with good books both for pleasure and information and is a good place to spend vacant periods. Miss Shaw is always ready and glad to help anyone who comes to her.

V. C. Hoye and Dunbar Ogden visited friends at Mitchell College Saturday night.

Coach’s suggestion was not that a loan fund for athletes be established but graduating in 1922 and other graduates to provide the necessary assistant coaches for the Wildcat teams. It was suggested that if more than enough for this purpose were raised, such excess might be used as a nucleus for a general loan or scholarship fund, not for athletes only but forany men needing such loan. 

MR. R. E. MELL SPOKE AT Y. M. C. A. LAST SUNDAY

Fifty Men Signed Covenant of the Pocket Testament League.

Mr. Robert E. Mell, of the Rock Hill Y. M. C. A., conducted the last “Y” vesper service. By request he spoke on the same subject that he used here last year, “The Pocket Testament League.” His song service and his own vocal solo added much to the success of the meeting. His address was begun in a rather unusual, yet successful, manner. He called for several voluntary testimonials from members of the Pocket Testament League who have been helped by membership in it. Enthusiastic responses were made by I. Baker, Ed Cunningham, W. W. Moore, Dwight Chambers, J. P. Price, and C. D. Tuller. 

After this, just what is meant by the Pocket Testament League was explained. In order to secure membership in it the following must be signed: “I hereby accept membership in the Pocket Testament League by making it the rule of my life to read at least one chapter in the Bible each day, and to carry a Bible or Testament with me wherever I go.” This is not a pledge, but a resolve, an intention, a purpose. 

Mr. Mell divided all Bible readers into four classes. First, are those who seldom take their Bibles from their trunks; second, are those who place their Bibles out on a table where company can see them; third, those who care enough to occasionally read their Bibles; fourth, those who eagerly study God’s Word. Only those in the latter class are on the road to true Christian joy and happiness. Five essentials for living a victorious Christian life were given. First is making a complete surrender to Christ; second, reading the Bible every day; third, daily prayer; fourth, tithing; fifth, being constantly at work for Christ. The first and last three of these are dependent on the second. 

In answer to his appeal for members for the League 50 men signed up after the meeting. Twenty-two ordered small, limp leather bound pocket-size Testaments. Dwight Chambers will gladly order Testaments for any others who desire them.

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE FOR COMING SEASON

February 1—Wofford at Davidson.
February 2—Clemson at Davidson.
February 4—N. C. State at Davidson.
February 7—Trinity at Durham.
February 8—N. C. State at Raleigh.
February 9—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
February 10—Elon at Elon.
February 13—Trinity at Charlotte.
February 15—Elon at Davidson.
February 16—University of S. C. at Davidson.
February 18—Guilford at Davidson.
February 21—Clemson at Clemson.
February 22—Wofford at Spartanburg.
February 23—University of S. C. at Columbia.
February 27—Wake Forest at Davidson.

Good Games Staged on Sprunt Field During Present Week.

Junior-Fresh

The fast Junior eleven defeated the Freshmen in the opening game of the class football series 7 to 6. The game was scrappy and hard fought throughout as the score indicates, both teams showing flashes of drive and a strong defense when the opposing team was within striking distance. The Freshmen scored when Anderson intercepted a pass and ran for a touchdown. The fighting Juniors, taking the ball under their own goal post, drove the ball the whole length of the field, Tucker going through a hole made by Allen for the Juniors’ counter. The broken field running and passing of Dick Richards was good, his end runs being largely responsible for the drive which ended in victory for the Juniors.

Line-up:
Juniors. Position. Fresh.
Moore RE Hastie
Allen RT Lewis
McCutchen RG Alexander
Grey C Bowden
Alexander LG Bethea
Roddey LT McCuen
Richards LE Tucker
FB McComas

Senior-Soph

The Senior football machine swung into action by romping away with the Soph team to the merry tune of 28 to 0. The underclassmen put up a game fight throughout, and held the heavy Senior team scoreless the first half, but weight finally told, and Luke Erwin, the speedy Senior half, ran wild in the latter frame. The Erwin to Erwin forward passing combination was more than the Sophs could handle, the brothers being responsible for two touchdowns by this route. Myers and “Cap” Garrett were the “bearcats” of the Soph defense, while Overton also looked mighty good.

Line-up:
Seniors. Position. Sophs.
Hamer RE Chipman
Ford RT Cox
Myers C Morrow
McLeod LG Young
Overton LT McClain
Garrett FB Stead

Soph-Fresh

In a game filled with thrills, fumbles, and a mixture of every type of football, the annual clash between the Sophs and the Fresh held on Wednesday ended in a 14 to 14 tie. The Fresh opened with a brilliant attack, and shoved across two touchdowns in the first period. Before the half ended, however, the upperclassmen had evened the count, Fenton and Ives going across the coveted mark. Myers and Cox were the big men in the line for the Sophs, while Bowden and Alexander were the mainstays of the Freshmen’s defense in the line. Hendrix and Hunt made several pretty runs.

Line-up:
Soph. Position. Fresh.
Ives LE Hastie
Cox RE Bowden
Fenton RG Alexander
Briggs LG Bethea
Young LT Hinton
McClain C Anderson
Stead QB Hendrix
Overton RH McComb
DeArmon LH Robbins
Garrett FB Hunt

WHAT’S DOING.

Saturday—7:15 p. m., Movies.
Sunday—10 a. m., Volunteer Band.
1:00 p. m., Christian Endeavor Training Class.
1:30 p. m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p. m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
4:30 p. m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p. m., Y. M. C. A. Service.
Tuesday—6:45 p. m., Fresh Eu Society.
Wednesday—1:30 p. m., College Closes for Christmas Holidays.
4:15 p. m., Homeward Bound!