THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

The Wildcats staged a ‘wonderful comeback against Richmond, via the ozone route.’ Eighty-five yards for a touchdown isn't a bad net gain for three passes in the last two minutes of play.

D. C.

The Varsity and the two Scrub teams piled up a total of 76 points last week.

D. C.

Now for some figures. Don't skip them for they are interesting. The following shows just how little comparative scores may be relied on:

N. C. State, 7; Carolina, 0.
Carolina, 7; S.C., 7.
S.C., 21; Clemson, 0.
Center, 14; Clemson, 0.
Center, 6; Harvard, 0.
Result: N. C. State, 21; Harvard, 0.
Harvard, 21; Pa. State, 21.
Pa. State, 28; Ga. Tech, 7.
N. C. State, 21; Randolph-Macon, 0.
Result: N. C. State, 12; Ga. Tech, 0.
Result: Randolph-Macon, 21; Ga. Tech, 0.
Trinity, 6; Randolph-Macon, 0.
Elon, 0; Trinity, 0.
Result: Elon, 14; Ga. Tech, 0.
Ga. Tech, 70; Davidson, 0.
Result: Davidson, 0.
BUT—
Davidson, 87; Wofford, 0.
Wofford, 20; Elon, 7.
Result: Davidson, 101; Elon, 0.
Result: Davidson, 115; Ga. Tech, 0.
Ga. Tech, 69; Furman, 0.
Result: Davidson, 184; Furman, 0.

The man who said figures didn’t lie must have lived before football was invented.

Wildcats

Following is a list of the ten men scoring the highest number of points in the first round of the class basketball series:

McConnell 55
Ormond 53
Mau 52
McGuire 50
Bregman 48
Bolt 47
Staley 45
Brakven 43
McBride 42
Angonsoll 40

D. C.

There are four undefeated teams east of the Mississippi. In no game have they been scored on:
Sewanee, 172; Opponents, 0.
Wisconsin, 133; Opponents, 0.
Navy, 127; Opponents, 0.
Chicago, 94; Opponents, 0.

D. C.

Southern colleges undefeated by any Southern team are Center, Georgia, Ga. Tech., Sewanee, Vanderbilt, W. & L., Virginia, N. C. State, and South Carolina.

N. C. State Saturday

DAVIDSON GOLFERS DEFEAT SALISBURY

(Continued from page 1)

but they were outclassed in playing, as well as being unaccustomed to the course. As Salisbury defeated Davidson earlier in the season, last week’s score makes the record even. Salisbury is anxious for another match on their course, and seem to feel certain that they can again defeat the Davidson team. The following are the scores of the individuals on Davidson's team:

Bachman, first round, 41; second round, 5 holes, 24.
Gracey, first round, 44; second round, 5 holes, 22.
MacConnell, first round, 7 holes, 40.
Wood, first round, 43; second round, 7 holes, 34.
McGill, first round, 52; second round, 7 holes, 42.
Robinson, first round, 57; second round, 7 holes, 42.

R. M. Williams, ’96, of Greensboro, N. C., was elected general manager of Barium Springs Orphanage at a recent meeting of Synod, but has not yet signified his acceptance of the position.

RICHMOND UNIVERSITY TIED

(Continued from page 1)

which Zeigler returned to the 35-yard line. After gaining two first downs Richmond had to kick and booted the ball behind the line. Davidson's ball on their own 20-yard line. After two attempts at line plays McFadden kicked. The ball seesawed in the center of the field until Towill intercepted a Davidson pass and carried the ball to her 40-yard line. Straight line plays and off tackle carried the ball to Davidson's 16-yard line. Three downs netted 11 yards and Zeigler, on an off tackle play, carried the ball over for the first score of the game. Zeigler kicked goal. Score: Richmond 7, Davidson 0. Richmond received the kickoff and ran the ball to midfield, where the Wildcat defense stiffened for the first time and the Baptists were forced to kick, the ball going outside of Davidson's 28-yard line. Quarter ended.

Coach Grey sent in an entirely new backfield. Bethea and McFadden went in for Moore, Erwin, Shepherd, Hendrix, Davis, and Schenck. The ball seesawed in midfield until Richmond opened up with a terrific drive and carried the ball to Davidson's 11-yard line. Here they met a stone wall, however, and the ball went over on downs. The Wildcat machine, with fighting blood up, proceeded to march up the field and without being stopped advanced the oval to Richmond's 14-yard line. On first down Shepherd gained five yards through the line. Erwin added three more and with two downs to make two yards, a pass was called which fell behind the line uncompleted and it was Richmond's ball on their own 20-yard line. This was the last chance either team had to score during the half.

Second Half.

Changing the Davidson backfield again, Coach Grey sent in the former quarter again. Receiving the kickoff, the Wildcat warriors marched down until within the shadows of the Richmond goal and then lost the ball. Richmond kicked to midfield and again the Red and Black machine drove its way toward the goal. The whole quarter was played in Richmond's end of the field and the quarter ended with the ball in Davidson’s possession on her opponent’s 16-yard line. On the first play attempted, a wide end run, Davidson lost eight yards. Failing to gain on the next play, a pass was called which resulted in a 20-yard run, McFadden to Schenck, for a touchdown. Schenck kicked goal. Score: Davidson 7, Richmond 7.

Richmond received the kick and Snead returned the ball to his own 40-yard line. The Spiders carried the ball to the Davidson 26-yard line but failing to gain it went over on downs. Schenck was thrown for an eight-yard loss and McFadden punted to Jones, who received the ball on his own 46-yard line, but was downed in his tracks. Jones made 11 yards off tackle. Fray and Mahaney made it first down. Ball on Davidson's 33-yard line. Richmond was offside and penalized five yards. Mahaney circled left end for 20 yards. Ball on Davidson’s eight-yard line. Mahaney gained five yards through the line. Fray duplicated. Mahaney circled right end for a touchdown. Snead kicked goal. Score: Richmond 14, Davidson 7.

Two minutes 15 seconds to play. Davidson chose to receive. Schenck received the kick on his own 16-yard line and returned to the 33-yard line. One off-tackle play from a kick formation netted 10 yards. Ball on Davidson’s 43-yard line, one minute 30 seconds to play. Shepherd shot a pass to Moore good for 21 yards and placed the ball on Richmond's 36-yard line. The stands were in an uproar and amid pathetic entreaties from its own student body to “Hold—Hold” and the cry for a touchdown from the Red and Black section, Schenck called for a fake. He received the ball and started around right end with the Richmond defense.swerving toward him. Quick as a flash McFadden cropped back, the ball from Schenck and before anyone could figure what had happened he had completed a perfect pass to Moore halfway down the field to the left sideline. Sidestepping one tackler and outrunning another, the midget Wildcat ran across 20 yards for a touchdown, saving the whole game. Schenck kicked the goal. Score: Davidson 14, Richmond 14. With only 30 seconds to play, McFadden booted the oval to Richmond's five-yard line. After one play the whistle blew. Score by quarters: Richmond 0 7 0 7—14, Davidson 0 7 7 0—14.

COLLEGIATE PRESS ASS’N. (Continued from page 1)

to act as a medium of criticism (constructive) of progress within the community and promote a program of progress; to direct the students’ reading to other sources; to characterize the peculiar foibles of the college campus in a spicy and harmless way; to serve as a training ground for enhancing the work of those looking forward to journalism; and to articulate to the faculty and student body the students’ sentiments, opinions, and desires, toward the end of moulding the public opinion that guides the institution and student life.

ACADEMY VAUDEVILLE PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 4, 5
1. OVERTURE
2. PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
3. THE THREE LAMAZE BROTHERS - Comedy Gymnastic Act
4. LUCILLE and COCKIE - “The Human Bird”
5. ROGER GRAY and COMPANY - “The Traffic Cop”
6. THE ELM CITY FOUR - Singing Comedians
7. HALL, ERMINE & BRYCE - “A Night on Broadway”

Professor Lindeman urged that work on the college newspaper be regarded as an integral part of the college work, and suggested that the editor-in-chief should be given credit in English for two semesters and the assistant editors for one semester. At the close of Professor Lindeman’s address, the delegates were guests of the Quill Club at an informal reception in the Carolinian Literary Society hall.

Saturday Morning.
Friday brought forth only a continuation of the many attentions and kindnesses of the evening before on the part of the N. C. C. W. members of the Press Association, but in even greater abundance than before. At 9:00 a.m. business began in the Adelphian Society hall, at which time Professor Leonard B. Hurley, of N. C. C. W., made a splendid talk on the “Field of the College Magazine.” Following this, there was a very helpful and inspiring talk by Lenoir Chambers, of The Greensboro Daily News, on “The Organization of a City Newspaper.” This talk alone was easily worth the trip to the convention. Then came reports of the secretary, treasurer, and representatives of each college. Each representative gave an account of problems and progress connected with its publication. Davidson was here given great prominence when it was announced that The Davidsonian was the only publication that had faithfully and regularly carried out the publicity department of its paper. Each paper promised to not be delinquent in this matter in the future and also voted thanks to Davidson’s publicity editor for his work. Under the head of general business, many plans were discussed to further the progress and overcome the problems of each paper. Davidsonian methods were unanimously chosen as the most worthwhile.

Saturday Afternoon.
The delegates enjoyed a delightful automobile ride Saturday afternoon. Several cars were provided and the city of Greensboro and its beautiful residence parks and the surrounding industrial villages were viewed. Slick Cornelson persuaded one car owner to let him sit at the steering wheel. Returning from the drive, the delegates were taken to Lindly Park, where the N. C. C. W. Athletic Association was having their annual picnic supper out on the hillside, and at which supper the delegates were guests. Bonfires spotted the hillside and seven hundred students populated it. The person who did not get enough from one of those bags of food was surely possessed of a large appetite.

Saturday Night.
On Saturday night The Carolinian entertained the delegates at a delightful banquet at the Y. W. C. A., planned in the form of a Hallowe’en party. The table and lights were attractively decorated for the occasion with place cards, verses, and Carolinian menus arranged in true journalistic style phraseology. Miss Anne Cantrell, president of the association, proved a toastmistress of rare repartee. Short speeches of welcome were made by Miss Marie Bonitz, president of the N. C. C. W. student body; Miss Emeline Goforth, editor-in-chief of The Coraddi; Miss Virginia Terrell, editor-in-chief of The Carolinian; and Miss Helen Dunn Creasy, editor-in-chief of the N. C. C. W. Annual. Harold McKeithan, of Davidson, responded on behalf of the visiting delegates. At the close of the banquet, Miss Virginia Terrell, of N. C. C. W., submitted the report of the executive committee. Several revisions to the constitution were passed. It was decided that the second vice-president should serve as publicity agent for the association. This office being vacant, Miss Frances Boyd, of Queens, was chosen to fill it. The banquet brought to a close the wonderful time all the delegates had enjoyed.

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH (Continued from page 1)
His footman is by noting the comparative dignity of the two. The footman has acquired all of the dignity from the time of William the Conqueror, while the lord is jolly, charmingly cordial, and brimful of pleasantness. The guests were each introduced to the King and Queen. Doctor Smith had quite a lengthy conversation with King George and spoke of him as a man with a charming personality. Doctor Smith closed his lecture, saying that he had come to the conclusion that the British Empire was never any greater in unity, loyalty, and self-confidence. The massive dignity and reserve strength of England is remarkable and any man in the United States that hates Great Britain is driving a dagger into the heart of our great Western Christian civilization. If the friendship, the warm co-operation, and the joint leadership of Great Britain and the United States ever drift apart then there will never be any hope for the aforesaid civilization.

The Addressograph was certainly fortunate in securing the services of C. J. Matthews, ’21, the financial wizard of last year. He is making a wonderful record in the business. His quota is six points a month, and in one day only he made five points.

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed service. Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248

Clothing & Furnishings
We Cater to The College Man who hasn’t too Much Money
Popular Prices
Special Showing of Suits and Overcoats $30-$35
A. PITTLE
Opposite Southern Mfg. Club.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.