THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

TWO MOVIES WERE SHOWN HERE DURING LAST WEEK

REV. CALVIN L. STEWART TAKEN FROM HIS FRIENDS

Rev. Calvin L. Stewart, 1877, died at his home in Pelzer, S. C., November 9th. He was born in Laurens County, South Carolina, and was a graduate of Davidson College in 1877, and Columbia Theological Seminary in 1880. He was ordained by the Presbytery of Enoree in 1881 and was pastor of the church at Piedmont, S. C., until 1895. In connection with his work at Piedmont, he supplied the church at Pelzer, S. C., from 1888 to 1896, when he was called to give his entire time to the church at Pelzer. He continued to serve this church until his death, a continuous period of service extending over 33 years. He was a man of sterling worth and preached the Gospel of Christ in simplicity and power and was greatly beloved by his people.

MARRIAGES

Mr. and Mrs. William Oliver Barrett announce the marriage of their daughter, Olivia, to Dr. Edwin Harper Linfield, on Friday, the 25th of November, 1921, at Lexington, Miss.

James T. Maddrey, '15, is wearing a broad smile now. James T. Jr. arrived last Saturday, November 20th. He has already reserved a place in the Davidson Class of 1943. Maddrey is one of the leading alumni of Winston-Salem, N.C.

BIRTHS

ALL DAVIDSON TEAM (Since 1914)

By Eugene Mauze.

First Team
King, '18
Hammett, '21
Grey, '18
Crouch, '18
Brady, '21

Second Team
Younger, '19
Anderson, '15
Meniaeters
White, '17

FACTS AND FIGURES ON CHAMBERS BUILDING

(Continued from page 1)

The building contains 72 sleeping rooms, five classrooms, three laboratories, the beautiful commencement hall, and the room long used as the library and which now houses the neglected museum. It faces the west and the village, and its front walls are ivy-covered. Sixty years of usage has added to the dignity of the stately edifice which bears its given name. It is a noble monument and has been for generations the center of college life and activity. Here have been formed Davidson customs and here her traditions have grown.

The Trustees’ record states that the building cost in round numbers $81,000.00. The stone pavement under the portico was presented in 1885 by Rev. J. W. Davis, of China (1869), who superintended the laying of the stone. The original walnut doors were replaced in 1912 by handsome plate glass doors, a gift from the class of 1907, under the leadership of Fred Leroy Blythe. Recitations were held first in the building on January 6, 1860, and on the 9th the first faculty meeting was held there. On February 6th it was decided to hold all religious services in “the new chapel,” which means the present Commencement Hall, but there was soon a return to more convenient if older quarters. For its protection, there was a regulation that there should be no spitting on its floor. No lighted cigars could be carried to its cupola. On April 5th there passed an edict to the same effect.

PLANS FOR NEW AND BETTER CHAMBERS

(Continued from page 1)

Two picture shows were one of the features of Senior Week. “Experience” was shown on Wednesday night and “After the Show” came on Friday night, just after six of ’22’s orators had eased their bosoms of their messages to humanity.

In “Experience” Richard Barthelmess as Youth did some good acting. Kate Bruce, as Youth’s mother, was good also, but was forced to overact terribly. “Experience” is taken from George V. Hobart’s morality play. There is rather too much morality and too little play.

In “After the Show” the acting of Charles Ogle stands out most prominently. The main theme of this play is the struggle in the heroine’s heart between the different sorts of love. The love that protects finally wins, but it is only after a hard battle with the love that desires.

Dr. Martin has labored incessantly since the first alarm of “fire” was sounded. He publishes the following note to the Alumni:

The old Chambers building is a total loss, but your old college is much alive. I wish you could have been present at the “pep meeting” at 10:30 a.m. the morning of the fire. Every man was determined to go to work, make the best of the situation, and have this the best year in our history in spite of the inconveniences. Through such an experience the students will gain infinitely more than they will lose. Of course, the loss will more than be made good—dormitories first. A heating plant, class and laboratory buildings must be provided. The loyal sons of Davidson will supply the money, and much will be needed—how much we cannot say just at this moment. A committee has been appointed with power to get the campaign started among the alumni and friends. A new dormitory and heating plant is ordered at once. The securing of experts to advise about rebuilding Chambers, in the same outer shape, if practicable, but the interior remodeled to suit modern educational demands, has been authorized. Plans will be secured as rapidly as possible. The money is the thing. Davidson College must not do otherwise.Effect that all than advance. The fire must be a SS Howell, 715 Sa rs ad McKay, 16 occupants of rooms should pay for [New Point of departure for greater HERE AND THERE eee MC lackle ‘99 transoms and windows broken and things. We are distressed but we AMONG THE ALUMNI Walker, ‘19 Schenck, ’21 the occupants of a floor were to pay AT Not cast down, We fight through pone ea 120 Ind Kees! 17 for the breakage of the hall windows. The bursar wailed, almost from the beginning, that “it is useless to put glass in the windows of the long halls!” Flowers, ’20 Johnson, Left Halfback Fullback 23 Burns, ’19 Walker, ’18 Miss McGhee, of Charlotte, was the guest of Mrs. A. Currie during the past week.

TWELVE SENIORS DELIVER (Continued from page 1) Fred Thompson, ’21, and his bride were on the Hill for the weekend noble ideals. He made his point strong that as a man thinks in his heart, so is he. We carry on. Yours in Alma Mater Bonds, Wm. J. Martin, President.

When In Charlotte visit Warren’s Service Barber Shop Chamber Commerce Bldg. W. 4th. St. Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C. WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS L.A. ELLIOTT SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS I've got all the supplies for them FRUITS CANDIES PICKLES SANDWICHES “an’ everything” Established 1873 A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co. Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty Street BALTIMORE, MD. Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, NY. Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

Dr. A. Freeman made a strong appeal for a better school system for this country. He pointed out the fallacy of a democracy adopting the very undemocratic system of Germany. He showed good preparation and a thorough knowledge of his subject. He took as his title “Eventually, Why Not Now?”

I. B. McGukin, speaking on the subject, “The Tree Wavings of Life,” pointed out in a forceful manner that the little things of life are what really make a man. If we get by the little things, the larger things will take care of themselves.

“Burden Bearers” was the subject of G. N. Neel’s oration. This excellent subject was well handled. The burden bearers of civilization, according to this interpretation, are the fathers and mothers of men. He made a special plea for more credit for the fathers who bear the heavy burdens silently.

T. H. Patterson used as his subject, “His Bugle Calls.” He pointed out some of the good wars had brought and the way it had advanced civilization. He made his finest appeal for a lasting peace now and gave the bugle call on a higher plane.

J. C. Wool, using as his subject, “My Country and Myself,” made an appeal for an intelligent military program for this country.

The last speaker was W. W. Moore, who took as his subject, “The Making of a Man.” He showed good preparation and made an excellent speech. On the whole the speeches were good and showed a variety of subjects which pleased the audiences. They were conspicuous for the absence of the usual sermons delivered at this time.