R. O. T. C. NEWS. Lieutenant Johnson during the holidays left us and is now with the 11th Infantry at Camp Jackson, in Columbia, S.C. Sergeant Champ was detailed as color sergeant to a company in the same camp. Sergeant Ryan remains at Davidson and has been promoted to a warrant officer. He has charge of the duties that were Lieutenant Johnson’s. Corporal Otis D. Cameron has arrived to take charge of the armory. He has had four years of service in the regular army and served overseas in the late war for nearly a year. His native state is Arkansas, made famous by Thomas W. Jackson in his tale about his experiences on a slow train through that state. Corporal Cameron will no doubt give his native state other fame in his stay here as Davidson is the incubator for the government. Almost all the soldiers who come here rise in rank before they leave. Major Hearn is building a rifle range out back of the sixth green on the golf course. The work is slow on account of the dampness of the ground but it will soon be completed and the members of the R. O. T. C. will get a taste of what the real thing is in warfare. To get a long range it is necessary to shoot over a road but as this is not much traveled it will not be dangerous.

TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN: The following letter has been received by Dr. Martin and is hereby published for the benefit of the R. O. T. C. Battalion.

HEADQUARTERS FOURTH CORP AREA
Fort McPherson, Ga.
December 27, 1920.

William J. Martin, Ph. D.,
President, Davidson College,
Davidson, N. C.

My dear Dr. Martin:

The Corps Area Inspecting Officer who recently inspected the R. O. T. C. Unit at Davidson College spoke in high terms of the work that is being accomplished at your institution. The excellent morale of the Unit and the interest in the work displayed by its members, and the precision at drill were especially noted. The degree of military efficiency obtained by your institution indicated the zeal of the Army personnel and your strong personal co-operation and assistance by members of the faculty, all of which is absolutely essential for the success of the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. The need of an additional officer at your institution is appreciated, and every effort is being made to find a qualified officer who is available for detail with the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps. It affords me pleasure to have the opportunity to express my satisfaction in the work being accomplished and my hearty appreciation of the interest and co-operation of yourself and members of the faculty.

Very truly yours,
(s) J. F. MORRISON,
Major General, U. S. A.
T. G. HEARN,
Major Infantry, U. S. A.

DEATH OF JOHN B. MALLARD COMES AS SHOCK TO FRIENDS
Was Promising Young Artist in Employ of the Presbyterian Standard.

It was with deepest sorrow and regret that old Davidson men everywhere, and present students who knew him, learned on December 28th of the death of John B. Mallard, ex-’18. Death came as the result of an operation following long suffering of appendicitis. He was born in Rock Hill, S. C., 1895, but reared in Lincolnton, N. C. He received his education at Davidson College and Washington and Lee. Then he entered the First Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe, from which he was graduated as a second lieutenant. Soon he was “sent across” and served the whole period with the Fifty-second Pioneer Infantry. Returning to the States, he began work with the Presbyterian Standard, September 1, 1919, as a commercial artist. While overseas he published illustrative sketches under the title, “With An Artist in the A. E. F.” This little book won him much renown as an artist. His ability with the brush while in college here was portrayed by his sketch of Woodrow Wilson on Chambers building. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his wife, to whom he was married in July, 1918, and to his father and mother, Mr. and Mrs. John Mallard.

PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN
ATHLETIC OUTFITTERS
The Macamac Company Agents
The Hoover & Smith Co.
New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.

WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
THE COMMISSARY
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Have these old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
28 Watts
They will look new

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
JAKE MARTIN, Agent
At the Powerhouse

CLASS FOOTBALL.For the past few years, class football has been eliminated for various reasons. Last year, each class was represented by a team; practice had begun and everything was moving smoothly when the “flu” came, and the schedule had to be canceled. This year, it is hoped that no such epidemic will visit the campus. There is abundant material in each class, and the men who were not fortunate enough to be awarded letters will have an excellent chance to star in these games. Looking over the prospects of the respective teams, it seems that there is going to be a “battle royal” for the championship. No team is going to have an easy time winning the title. Class games are not played solely for the purpose of determining which class is the winner, but also to promote good feelings among the classes and to develop varsity material. The teams have elected their managers, and a schedule will soon be made out and published. Practice will start at once, and everyone is urged to come out whether he has had any experience or not.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921.

STATE VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE TO BE HELD AT TRINITY, FEB. 25-27

The members of the local Volunteer Band are looking forward to the annual conference of the Student Volunteer Union of North Carolina, which will be held at Trinity College, Durham, N. C., February 25, 26, 27. The program of the conference this year will include several new features. Among them will be an exhibit of posters and articles from mission fields. R. R. McIlwaine of the Davidson Band has charge of the exhibits, and every Volunteer is looking forward with interest to the surprises which he is planning to pull off at the conference.

Among the speakers for the conference is Dr. Egbert W. Smith, Executive Secretary for Foreign Missions in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Dr. Smith will have a message that will be an inspiration to every delegate, for he has an intimate knowledge of the mission fields and their needs.

In preparation for the Deputation work of the local Volunteer Band, each Volunteer will make a talk before the Band for friendly criticism, so they may be ready to answer any call for missionary speakers and may be ready to answer any question in regard to missionary activities throughout the world. For the present, the Band will hold its meetings at the church each Wednesday evening at 6:30, and every member is urged to attend every meeting.

Hoop-la!!! The “Y” is going to open the Social Center again. This time for good. The first room on the right as you enter the Gym is to be opened this week as the Social Center, instead of the large room on the left of the Lobby. This room will be well heated. It will have a player piano, possibly a Victrola with up-to-date records galore, besides checkers, magazines, and college exchanges to help a fellow forget that the “pink” or “blue” did not show up at Mr. Cranford’s establishment, or that the Profs shot him, or that the people back home have a corner on the money market. It’s a go, Fellows. Put the Center on your daily program, and keep old Uncle Gloom away.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service. He wants your business.

LIFE INSURANCE--A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary for real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of its Size
The Commercial National Bank of Charlotte, N. C.
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
A. G. BRENIZER, President
R. A. DUNN, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready
The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter, garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
218 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.