THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 4, 1921.

States for 1922 are four billions of dollars according to Secretary of the Treasury Houston White.

You Tell 'Em, Sister.
In Psychology we learn that memory is a faculty. Won't it be nice when Faculty is a memory? — Wo-Co-Ala
News.

Resolved: We are going to quit knocking the laundry. The laundry is so considerate that it won't even knock the
spots in our clothes and we think it the part of good sports to lay off.

Do Say.
Now You're Talking.

Temper Him.
"I lay down the Law," said Frank as he stretched himself out on the bed.

They call it Junior Speaking—but it’s mostly whispering.

There are a lot of hard Freshmen about, but none harder than Steele.

As Clear As Mud.
"Schoolboy Is Stabbed." — Headline Washington Evening Star.

Listen.
Bride to Hubby—"Cuss all you want to but never say darn."

The man had just informed the Pullman Agent that he wanted a Pullman berth.
"Upper or lower?" asked the agent.
"What's the difference?" asked the man.
"A difference of 50 cents in this case," replied the agent. "The lower is higher than the upper. The higher
price is for the lower. If you want the lower, you'll have to go higher. We sell the upper lower
than the lower. In other words, the higher the lower. Most people don’t like the upper, although it is lower
on account of being higher. When you occupy an upper you have to get up to go to bed and
get down when you get up. You can have the lower if you pay higher. The upper is lower than
the lower because it is higher. If you are willing to go higher, it will be lower."
But the poor man had fainted. — Charlotte Observer.

We Can't Get Along Without—
those who say, "I had a good joke for you, but I've forgotten what it was."

Weather Forecast.
Unprecedented downpour predicted for Davidson and vicinity on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.

Tune Up.
Life is a sweet old song—if you don’t get off key.

And speaking of Junior Speaking—that’s a good excuse for taking a bath.

It’s Spring. Young man watch for your Fancy.

Accept Our Compliments.
James Boulware sure has an exquisite taste for poetry. Pick up the marbles, Jim, you win.

R. O. T. C. Special.
Attention! Present Arms! Fall-In! Sounds good, doesn’t it? Wonder if it will work?

Of Course.
Headlines—"Poultry Raising Attracts Youths."
You bet your life it does.

This Week's Bone.
Fresh Carr in Eumenean Society: "The required revenues of the United States for 1922 are four billions of dollars according
to Secretary of the Treasury Houston White."

The air is composed of molecules. They constantly bombard you from all sides. A thousand taps by a thousand knuckles
will close a barn door. The taps as a whole constitute a push. So the constant bombardment of the air
molecules constitutes a push. At sea-level the air molecules push against every square inch of you with a total pressure
of nearly fifteen pounds. Pressure, then, is merely a matter of bombarding molecules. When you boil water you make its
molecules fly off. The water molecules collide with the air molecules. It takes a higher temperature to boil...water at sea-level
than on Pike’s Peak. Why? Because there are more bombarding molecules at sea-level—more pressure. Take away all the air pressure
and you have a perfect vacuum. A perfect vacuum has never been created. In the best vacuum obtainable, there are
still over two billion molecules of air per cubic centimeter, or about as many as there are people on the
whole earth. Heat a substance in a vacuum and you may discover properties not revealed under ordinary pressure. A new
field for scientific exploration is opened. Into this field, the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company have penetrated. Thus
one of the chemists in the Research Laboratories studied the disintegration of heated metals in highly exhausted bulbs. What happened
to the glowing filament of a lamp, for example? The glass blackened. But why? He discovered that the metal distilled
in the vacuum, depositing on the glass. This was research in pure science—research in what may be called the chemistry
and physics of high vacua. It was undertaken to answer a question. It ended in the discovery of a method
of filling lamp bulbs with an inert gas under pressure so that the filament would not evaporate so readily. Thus
the efficient gas-filled lamp of today grew out of a purely scientific inquiry. So, unforeseen, practical benefits often result when
research is broadly applied.

General Electric
General Office Company
Schenectady, N.Y.

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
BREVARD, N.C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six
boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, - - Director
Chapel Hill, N.C.
J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director
Davidson, N.C.
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready
The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand
Clothes, Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, March 3rd, 4th, and 5th
OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
JESS AND DELL
“The Human Puppets” Present a Unique Novel Oddity
EMANUEL ROMAINE’S “THAT TRIO,” Vaudeville’s Sweetest Singers
BILLY LYTELLE AND GIRLS
With Mabel Dillon in a Novelty Musical Review
BERT STODDARD
“The Forgetful Teacher”
ANITA DIAZ MONKEYS
Darwinian Demonstrators of Fun
