4

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '1

"The Livest Wire on the Hill"

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Monday. Articles received from an unknown
source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
M. RICHARDS
Assistant Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Athletic Editor
Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL
Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE
Forum Editor
J. M. DUNLAP
Editor
D. W. ROBERTS
Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL
Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR.
Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE
Official Photographer
CLUB McKEITHAN, J. H. OGDEN, D. H. ORMAND, A. C. SUMMERS, A. C. WOOL, J. C.

REPORTERS:
BAILEY, J. C.
GAMBLE, W. A.
BITZER, R.
COOPER, W. J.
CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
DAVIDSON, R. F.
LONG, G.
MAHOOD, D. L.
MAUZE, G. W.
MITCHELL, A. M.
PHILLIPS, J. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS
Business Manager
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY
Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG
Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL
Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We have heard that some of our students are beginning a prosperous New Year as each one is to receive
three hundred and sixty-five letters from a single individual.

Hard work is an excellent remedy to rid yourself of that homesick feeling.

A REGRETTED NECESSITY.

ORDINARILY our college and its various student activities are unaffected by the changes occurring in the country around us. This
spring sees an exception to this rule in that the great financial depression is affecting our weekly publication, forcing us
to reduce the size of our paper. It is now a well-known fact that a publication must pay its expenses
from its advertising revenue, and at this period of business stagnation it is almost impossible to secure new advertising to
replace those contracts expiring the first of this year. For this reason, we find it necessary to cut the size
of the paper to six pages for the time being, with the expectation of restoring it to its regular size
in four or five weeks. Our business manager is now actively engaged in trying to contract new advertising, and as
soon as conditions warrant we will return to eight pages. We assure our readers that we are exerting every means
to maintain the standard of our publication, and ask that you kindly bear with us during this emergency.

WELCOME TO OUR NEW "Y" SECRETARY.

A need that has been acutely felt by our student body during the past fall has now been eliminated by
the acquisition of Dwight Chalmers, '20, of Charlotte, N. C., as our new "Y" secretary. In times past the student
president of this organization was sufficient to fill the requirements, but with an enlarged number of students this plan is
no longer feasible. We cannot speak too highly of the work accomplished by the present president of the Y. M.
C. A., for by his diligence and faithfulness he has shown that he has done all that could be expected
of a student still in college. We take this opportunity to welcome Secretary Chalmers back to his Alma Mater in
his new role, and to assure him that he will have the unqualified support of every man on our campus.
Our new secretary needs no introduction to the old men, but for the benefit of the freshmen we would like
to say that he is a man's man. His record during his four years at Davidson adequately proves this statement
as Secretary Chalmers was a leader in athletics, scholarship, and religious activities. He is of a kindly and sympathetic nature
and will be a real friend in time of need. Dwight, as we have always known him, will do his
part. Surely there is not a man who will not back him in his new work. With both parties doing
their share we can see nothing but a bright and successful future for our Y. M. C. A.

WHAT SHALL IT MEAN TO US?

New Year resolutions are generally referred to in a joking manner. Notwithstanding this, however, there is not a better time
to halt and take stock of ourselves, and in every instance, we will find we are lacking in many essential
things. This being the case, is this not the proper time to revitalize our lives with higher ideals, expressing these
in the form of resolutions to be placed in practice in the coming year? We do not mean to state
any definite resolutions that should be adopted by the students of this school, but we would like to suggest three
things which, if properly executed, would mean much to Davidson College. Could we not decide that beginning with this term
we will do our utmost to promote a more harmonious feeling than ever before among the students of this campus?
In scholarship also there is much room for improvement, for there were too many failing to pass the required work
last fall. And also in the New Year that is before us could we not strive to better the Christian
atmosphere of our college by refraining from any practice that is not worthy of a gentleman. Let each student then
make this one of his resolutions for the year 1921: "To be a friend to every man on the campus;
to be faithful in my college duties, and to live daily in such a manner as to reflect credit upon
the institution loved by so many."

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921.

and write some yourself. You may not be quite as good as Sidney Lanier, but you can at least try.
What the Magazine needs is the whole-hearted support of every loyal Davidson man to make it the best Magazine in
theSouth. We have the management, but it cannot do everything. Let’s get busy, fellows, and instead of killing the Magazine
by our neglect, make the next issue a 60-page issue, one that we will all take pride in reading and
letting other folks read.
McM.

SUNDAY STUDYING.

On the examination schedule for the fall term of 1920, there were examinations for morning and afternoon on both Saturday
and Monday. Besides this, tests and regular recitations come on Saturdays and Mondays as often as on other days, thus
leaving us Sunday as the only day on which we can do our more thorough studying and parallel reading. Monday
is the day on which we take re-exams, again affording us an excellent opportunity for Sunday studying. How many Davidson
students, if at home, would study on Sunday? And yet it seems that in order to lengthen school one day,
we must study our lessons on Sunday, the one day in the week when we want to rest and some
of us want to turn our minds from our studies to the work of the Master. One of the rulers
of France failed utterly when he tried to make everyone work nine days and rest on the tenth, and his
failure came because the people and the beasts of burden gave out, exhausted physically. But men can stand even less
of mental strain than physical exertion. In spite of this fact, we are trying to believe we can cram for
exams all seven days of the week. Even if our bodies are the temples of the Creator, yet we have
no right to add to the worldly part of our temples any more than we have a right to haul
in brick and build a church on the Sabbath. If we must do mental labor on the Sabbath, why can’t
we play golf, tennis, or baseball also on the Sabbath? Both forms of exertion are meant to build up the
man.

Open Forum
DUM TACIT CLAMAT.

There was a time when The Davidsonian was a pamphlet published weekly by a few men here on the campus.
Today it is by far the best college paper in the South, and it not only represents the work of
a good management, but the wholehearted support of every man in the student body. Heretofore our Annual has been a
publication representing the work of a few men, but this spring the Quips and Cranks will represent the support of
every Davidson student. We are proud of the two publications mentioned above and we have a right to be, but
what about the college Magazine? How many copies of this publication have you sent to the folks at home? You
bought extra subscriptions to The Davidsonian because you are proud of it and you wanted the folks at home to
know all of the news of the campus. You bought extra copies of the Annual because you were proud of
it and because of the old friends and traditions it brings to mind, but did you buy a single extra
subscription to the Magazine? How many men have you heard criticize the Magazine since school started in September? It is
a small publication. The last issue had only 20 pages and three of those were taken up with advertisements. True,
it isn’t a paying proposition, and the manager has to be a good business man to make ends meet, and
even then most of the time he doesn't succeed, but whose fault is it? Every man in the student body
is to blame. The Magazine should be a good representative of the literary talent of the students of Davidson College,
but all of us will agree that it is not. How many short stories have you written for the Magazine
or how many poems have you written? Don't criticize the publication. If you don’t like the short stories or don’t
think there are enough of them, get busy and write one that you like. You say that you are not
an author. Maybe so, but remember: Rome was not built in a day. If you don’t like the poetry, get
busy Esse Quam Videri.

Mrs. Hearn, the mother of Major Hearn, has been visiting her son.

Read the exchanges in the Library.

UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND PRESIDENT RESUMES DUTIES AFTER ILLNESS

Dr. F. W. Boatwright, president of the University of Richmond, has resumed his duties after an eight weeks’ absence from
the desk. He has completely recovered from a dangerous operation and is gradually catching up with his back work.—Richmond Collegian.

“A little of this will go a long way,” said the giraffe as he swallowed a pint of moonshine.”—Ga. Cracker.

Baylor University, in addition to six intercollegiate debates, has scheduled one intercollegiate contest for the co-eds only. The opposition will
be furnished by the women of Baylor College.—Intercollegiate News Service.

SUCH IS LIFE.

“Oh, Joe,” she said on greeting me, In tones of great alarm; “I heard that in the football game You'd
broken your left arm.” I calmed her tender groundless fears With vehemence and haste, And just to prove the arm
was sound I slipped it ‘round her waist. So resting close beside me, she Smiled sweetly in my face, “That's
great,” she said, “not broken, Nor even out of place.” —Ga. Cracker.

We often hear the remark that some woman is “dressed fit to kill.” Probably out to make a killing.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone 25-W
CORNELIUS, N.C.

AMERICA is fast becoming a pipe-smoking country. Every year more and more men are realizing the comfort, the satisfaction, and
the economy of the pipe. And by natural selection, more and more men are smoking WDC Pipes. This is not
chance. It is because WDC Pipes offer the utmost in pipe value. Honest French briar, seasoned by our own special
process makes WDC Pipes break in sweet and mellow. Coupled with that is a self-governed body of pipe makers whose
sole object is to fashion pipes which are without peers in all the world. And it has been accomplished. Ask
any good dealer.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
