THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 13, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

The Tech game is the one Davidson would rather lose than any other, but it is also the one D.
C. would give more to win. Tech, from 1915 through 1920, played 52 games, won 45, lost 5, and tied
2. Her total score for the 52 was 2,265 points against 142 for her opponents.

—Wildcats—

North Carolina teams had hard luck with their opponents this last week. In no case did they come out victorious
over their opponents from other states. Yale 34; N. C. 0. Penn State, 35; N. C. State, 0. V. M.
I, 20; Wake Forest, 0. William & Mary, 12; Trinity, 0. Lynchburg, 15; Elon, 7. But the blow that killed
father came from Atlanta.

—Wildcats—

Wake Forest hasn’t won a game yet. Keep up the pep. We don't want them to until after next Saturday.
It is hard to get a line on Wake Forest through comparative scores. They held Tech to 2 points, but
they did the same thing last year, and although their score against the Engineers was lower than Davidson’s, the Wildcats
won by three touchdowns.

—Wildcats—

Coach Black’s All-Americans certainly are the stuff. They held Monroe to a tie, although the Monroe team averaged as much
as our Varsity. The other All-American squad uncorked over the strong Shelby High team.

—Wildcats—

Ohio State, winner of the Western Conference championship for the last two years, bowed before Oberlin, last Saturday by a
margin of a touchdown. Oberlin is a small co-ed school in Ohio with a smaller student body than Davidson.

—Wildcats—

Notre Dame lost to Iowa State 10-7. This was the first defeat of the Catholics in two years.

—Wildcats—

The tennis tournament will be concluded this week. Several intercollegiate matches are planned for this fall on the local courts.

—Wildcats—

Class basketball is now in full swing. Get out and root for your team. The Fresh put up a good
fight against the Sophomores, but the better teamwork of the Sophs was too much for them.

—Wildcats—

Davidson will have to put up plucky fighting to take the match from Wake Forest Saturday. The Baptists seem to
be in good form this year and are not letting the leading teams heap up too much against them. Wake
Forest’s star end, Heckman, is showing up well as quarterback this year and is heading some good gains, especially in
passes. Taylor showed up well in the line against V. M. I. last week and Fulton displayed great skill especially
in the defense. The probable line up for Wake Forest will be: Left end, Bowden. Left tackle, Moss. Left guard,
Lee. Center, Taylor. Right guard, Pierce. Right tackle, Martin. Right end, Westerhoff. Quarterback, Heckman. Right half, Armstrong. Fullback, Fulton.

Considering these comparative scores it may look as if Wake Forest is going to roll up a considerable score against
Davidson. Wake Forest 0, Ga. Tech 42. Davidson 0, Ga. Tech 70. But look for a moment at last year’s
record: Wake Forest 0, Ga. Tech 42. Davidson 0, Ga. Tech 76. Wake Forest 7, Davidson 27. This is the
opinion of the Atlanta Journal: “While the score would seem to indicate that Davidson was weaker than both Wake Forest
and Oglethorpe, such is not the case. Davidson simply met the splendid Tornado at top speed. Davidson has a team,
a better team in our opinion than either Wake Forest or Oglethorpe despite the bigger score piled up against her.”
This year Wake Forest has met V. M. I, falling before them with 20 to 0. Carolina was also able
to gain 21 points. From this, it is evident that the scrap Saturday will be a snappy one. Special trains
are being arranged to accommodate the student body going to support the Wildcats.

SOPHS DEFEAT FRESHIES IN BASKETBALL OPENER

The class basketball season opened with a rush Friday night, the Sophomores defeating the Freshmen 27 to 22. The game
was witnessed by a large crowd, who were treated to a fast and snappy contest. The Sophs opened up with
some classy passing, and soon had several baskets before the Freshmen were able to locate the hoop, and although the
Fresh fought hard, they were never able to head the upperclassmen. The half ended with the Sophs leading the Fresh
by a 12 to 11 score. In this period the second-year men missed many shots, and it was only by
clever passing and floorwork that they were able to keep a one-point margin over Coach Crawford's men. Both teams came
back in the last half determined to win, but before the Fresh could settle down, the Sophs had tossed in
four field goals. Right here the new men’s defense stiffened, and the play from this point was about equal with
both teams missing an equal number of open shots. McConnell was the high point man of the evening, ringing up
four field goals. McPherson was strong on the defense, breaking up many passes. For the Fresh, Beall was the star,
playing an excellent floor game besides registering two goals from the floor. Staley also showed up well for the underclassmen.

Summary:
Sophs (27) Position Fresh (22)
McConnell, C. (13) - RF - Staley, C. (6)
McBryde (6) - LF - Covington (0)
Myers (0) - C - Anderson (4)
McPherson (0) - RG - Beall (4)
Charnley (2) - LG - Vann (6)

Substitutes: Elkins (4) for Charnley, Morrison (0) for Vann.
Scoring—Field Goals: McConnell 4; McBryde 3; Elkins 2; Myers 1; Charnley 1. Fresh: Staley 2; Beall 2; Anderson 2; Vann
0; Mitchell 1. Foul Goals: McConnell 5 out of 12; Staley 2 out of 6; Vann 2 out of 6;
Anderson 0 out of 1. Officials—Referee: Price; Scorekeeper: Richards.

LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL BOYS DEFEAT CHARLOTTE HIGHS

The Davidson High School Wildkittens hooked up with the Charlotte lads last Saturday, and when the final whistle blew, the
Wildkittens had mauled and clawed their way to an overwhelming victory, letting down the Charlotte lads at the small end
of a 46 to 0 score. Charlotte received the kick-off and ran it back ten yards, and then made first
down on a long end run to mid-field. They failed to gain. Their punt was blocked but they recovered and
were penalized five yards for offside. They punted and on the first play, Wells, Davidson’s left half, ran around left
end sixty-five yards for a touchdown. Gray kicked goal. After that, Charlotte never threatened to score and the ball was
in Davidson's possession most of the time. The game was spectacular for the long runs by Davidson, and Grey's kick-offs.
The longest run of the day was made by Grey, who ran back a punt seventy yards for a touchdown.
Wells contributed to the score by making three touchdowns after runs of sixty-five, forty, and forty yards. He made another
run for thirty yards. Thompson and Arbuckle also pulled off some long runs of from twenty to thirty yards. The
other touchdowns were as follows: Grey 2; Arbuckle 1; and Riggs McConnell who caught a twenty-yard pass from Grey and
ran five yards for a touchdown. Grey kicked three goals after touchdown. Joe McConnell started in the line for Davidson.
Greer, Craver, and Elms did some fine playing for Charlotte.

R.O.T.C. UNIT PLANS SPECIAL STUNTS FOR ARMISTICE DAY

On Armistice Day, November 11th, one of the important features will be the military program. Special stunts, in the form
of drill movements, will be exhibited by the different units of the battalion. Each company will present its own stunt
in competition with the other companies. Each squad will present its movements against other squads. These features are intended to
be somewhat exaggerated so that they may prove to be of more interest than the ordinary drill maneuvers. Each company
will have sponsors, who will be expected to preside, in some measure, while each presents its feature. During the intermission
of each company, the members of the organizations will enjoy the company and presence of the young ladies. Upon the
close of these exercises, judgment will be passed upon the best company that has presented their feature most perfectly and
upon decision the sponsor for theThe winning company will be presented with the colors, as a token of the honor
which they hold. The company winning this honor will retain it for a period of three months, at which time
a decision will be made again. At the close of the program, the American Legion will have a barbecue prepared
for the pleasure of all.

DIRECTOR McGEACHY NAMES GLEE CLUB’S FINAL ROSTER

The Glee Club is starting out with prospects for a very bright year, and, with D. P. McGeachy directing, it
looks forward to one of the best years it has had. Not only has the Glee Club a fine list
of singers, but Frank Northrop, who is in charge of an orchestra, promises some good music from that source, while
J. D. Bernhardt and his guitar club will furnish one of the best parts of the program. It starts its
program for the year with a concert at Huntersville Friday, October 21st, and has plans for going to Flora Macdonald,
Raleigh, and Winston-Salem the second week in November. No further plans have been made, but we are sure that these
five places will be furnished with high-class entertainment. The Glee Club will not only carry out its programs as a
Glee Club, but will aid the Dramatic Club in both singing and instrumental music. McGeachy is now working on some
snappy songs for the minstrel that is to be given November 10th, and these will make up a very good
part of the program. On the whole, the outlook for the Glee Club is bright and prosperous, and they are
looking forward to one of the best years they have had.

A very large number of students were out for the Glee Club this year, and it was necessary to make
several eliminations. Below is a final list of those picked as the best in the school:

Pianist: H. F. Northrop.
Violinist: R. A. Groves.
First tenors: C. V. Brown, C. W. Robinson, H. N. Myers, and W. G. Baker.
Second tenors: J. R. Earnest, W. A. McClain, J. M. Adams, R. L. McLeod, J. H. McKeithen, and C. G.
Swain.
First bass: W. S. Buchanan, J. W. Philips, O. J. Allison, and W. T. Jones.
Second bass: A. V. Gibson, J. D. Bernhardt, J. D. Maxwell, and D. P. McGeachy.

DAVIDSON SCRUBS TIE HIGH SCHOOL ELEVEN AT MONROE

(Continued from page 1)

and was forced to punt. Davidson took the ball down the field and Boggs made a touchdown. Phillips failed at
goal. Monroe received and the game ended with the ball in the middle of the field.

Davidson. Position. Monroe.
Moore .......... LE .......... Deere
Snyder .......... LT .......... Sarge
Summers ........ LG .......... Curlee
Gibey .......... C .......... Dees
Swain .......... RG .......... Beasley
Hodgin .......... RT .......... Austin
Overton .......... QB .......... Fairley, Z.
Ballard .......... LH .......... Gaddy
Boggs .......... FB .......... Lemmond

Substitutes—For Davidson: Smith for Boggs, Young for Cox; for Monroe: Cason for Gaddy, Laney for Lemmond, Williams for Beasley, Williams,
S., for Curlee, Williams, B., for Wiggs. Referee: Austell.

LITERARY NEWS

PHI SOCIETY ARGUES WEST VIRGINIA MINERS’ STRIKE

The regular meeting of the Phi Society was held last Thursday night and was full of pep and interest. The
first gentleman on the affirmative, Wooten, announced the subject as, “Resolved, that the West Virginia Miners were justified in striking.”
Wooten then gave a brief history of the present trouble, bringing out facts in proof of the justifiability of their
actions. His colleague, Mr. McGirt, showed that the operators were breaking the laws much more than were the miners. For
the negative, Messrs. Russell and Brown argued that the miners were not in any way justified in the means they
used to obtain their end, and therefore the end was not under these conditions a worthy one. The decision was
unanimous for the negative.

W. K. McCain delivered a very interesting oration on actual conditions in Mexico today. He gave a clear picture of
the impressions a visitor would get in a Mexican city the size of Charlotte. The regular program was closed with
an extemporaneous debate between Messrs. Lacy and Wood on the question: “Resolved, that students who graduate from the literary societies
be given a half-year's credit in the English department.” The decision this time was two for the negative. Messrs. E.
B. Crow, J. D. Bernhardt, and J. R. Abernathy were elected to membership, Crow to the Junior society, and the
other two men to the Senior society.

PHI FRESHMAN SOCIETY

The Philanthropic Freshman Society meeting Monday night was one of the liveliest so far, full of pep the whole time
with lots of spirit and fight shown by the debaters. A great deal of enthusiasm was shown by several of
the speakers, which proved to be contagious, spreading over the whole audience. The subject was, “Resolved, that the West Virginia
Miners were justified in their recent uprising.” Owing to the absence of three of the debaters, Northrop, Roberts, and Byerly,
substitutes were asked to fill their places, in response to which Holtshouser volunteered to serve on the affirmative and Austin
and Ray on the negative.

The affirmative was led by Wharton, who depicted the miners as being oppressed by the operators and rising to throw
off the oppression. His debate was dignified and well thought out. Smith led the negative and drew a splendid picture
of the numerous benefits provided by the mine owner for the miner. The second speaker of the affirmative, Thomas, presented
the miner's side, arguing that the strike was the only weapon the miner had to use. Holtshouser completed the argument
for the affirmative and did much to tear down the points of his opponents. In an animated denunciation of the
miner and his treatment of the operator, Austin greatly strengthened the defense of the negative. He was followed by Ray,
who summed up the arguments of his colleagues. The critic spoke well of the meeting and commended the speakers for
their logical and well-thought-out debates, and also on their delivery.

EU SOCIETY ADJOURNS IN DEFERENCE TO REVIEWS

The regular meeting of the Eu Society was curtailed on account of reviews and re-exams being at hand. The meeting
was opened with a prayer by McGukin and Scripture reading by the president. The roll was called and the minutes
read. The society decided to change its hour of meeting from 7:15 to 7:30, since some of the members work
in the boarding houses and are unable to be on time at the earlier hour. Patterson announced that he was
ready to receive the money of any members so inclined. The society voted to adjourn on account of overhanging reviews
and because of the absence of those on the program. The society adjourned to meet next Thursday at 7:30 p.m.

27 TO 6

(Continued from page 1)

Touchdowns—Davidson: Crawford 1, Moore 1, Harris 1, Brown 1; Shelby: Anthony 1. Substitutes—Davidson: Lowry for Alexander, H., McLaurin for Harris,
McCombs for Crawford. Shelby: Cook for Anthony, Huffman for Auten, Grigg for Connor, Thackston for Rudasill, McKee for Cook, Weathers
for Cook. Referee: McMurray, N. C. State; umpire: Mitchell, N. C. State; head linesman: Washburn, N. C. State.

GOLF - BASKETBALL - TENNIS

Tennis Rackets Restrung Quickly

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed
service. Send racket by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon)
Phone 3248

What about that fall suit that you failed to order earlier in the season? It’s not too late yet for
us.

Schloss Bros. & Company
Baltimore

Alex Taylor
All-Wool Sweaters
Prices Right - Satisfaction Guaranteed

Bill Goodman’s University Boot Shop
Shoes for Every Occasion

Printing and Engraving of Every Kind
Standard Prices
Full line of Fine Stationery---Plain, College Seal, Fraternity
“If we haven’t got what you want, we'll get it on short notice”

The Davidson College Commissary
