THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 14, 1921.

STROUSE & COMPANY

Of Baltimore will give their Spring display Friday and Saturday, 14th and 15th, showing a complete line of “ALL-WOOL” fabrics.
Good Suits for $25.00. Be sure to get measured on the above dates. Suits can be delivered any time in
Spring.

THE GREATEST REDUCTION IN PRICE IN YEARS

THE MACAMAC COMPANY

BASKETBALL PRACTICE BEGINS.

(Continued from page 1)
getting last year. Several of this year’s Fresh team are among the candidates also.

Altogether the prospects for a winning team are very bright and it is with the greatest hopes that we look
forward to a successful season on the indoor court.

LARGE ATTENDANCE AT FIRST “Y” SERVICE OF YEAR

Dwight Chalmers Begins Work by Delivering Thoughtful Speech.

Dwight Chalmers, the new Y. M. C. A. Secretary, gave the first talk of the year at the “Y” service
on Sunday night. His principal themes were “Consecration” and “Sincerity to Purpose.” In an informal manner, he discussed his topics
with his audience and elaborated his themes by many striking examples and quotations.

He urged that we all have a “central purpose in life which we stand for and let every other purpose
be tributary to it.” As a helpful suggestion, as to what the central purpose should be, “Consecration to Christ” was
given as a model on which to work. “Trust God with everything,” Chalmers urged, “and each new day will be
a new victory for the true Christian.”

The thought of sincerity to one’s fellow men was then emphasized.

Too much credit cannot be given to those members of the College Band, who kindly offer their services to the
“Y” every Sunday evening. Under the direction of D. R. Freeman and Huston White, they add greatly to the interest
and devotion of the services. This week the Band Cornet Quartette played “Hark the Herald Angels Sing,” with variations. A
vocal quartette sang a well-known evangelistic hymn. One of the most appreciated musical numbers was a Saxophone duet given by
W. R. Booth and Stuart Buchanan.

Dave Roberts conducted the meeting, and as chairman of the Devotional Committee, promised many good speakers this term.

Mrs. Agnes Douglass and Mrs. Grace James spent the holidays with Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglass.

Mr. Malcolm Rumple, of Cleveland, O., spent Christmas at Davidson.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young visited friends in Concord during the holidays.

Mrs. William Minter, of Austin, Tex., was a visitor here to her son this week.

“AT THE POWERHOUSE”

Re. Kore unrd from the wood Certainly shipped or not shipped that Inc. Bacon Amid and I for His shining
panty up Row Ginnie. a Rua NintReast Canny Casts St Aunt yesterday. And a riot started before we squared up
to the vemsow Atiak! Listen, ofc full pup, ay rales short!

Bhak Ninn, lead guide, while unpacking, found such a fowl on the Ot set pt Nixon swore an Indian- plir-Comuck!
Just wouldn’t be pacified! Phar leew rooting for Chmabs, Aunce November IVs. Refreshuma flavor, or mild Aw @ Cigantlé aw
Camely prnde! (fete, ARak ww OK. ow Rat). te rvour Juaw ow what dew Nixon do but for wid Rin
Camoe and disappear. ants the depths of te Tught!

(Uout Hue tis mouning There vay © Asar Auch As he swam Luter heard un the wild woods! St was
Nixon Ayellung tite a doubledeckod. Full .Us000! That fid fad Crossed the Care, picred apy a Ail and feat itte
a Cittle way-bnex Atore. whee fie got die Goes out of fed. and made tain Come aorace) wits aft ihe
Romete, Re fad* Ths sede ANioked, Cite av acey— but, Blhak always geto shat after! It Ke tn, actos Od,
hour were ad filed uate mien of Raman Mividesss ond Camel Covtoitmont WEI! get game!

Peter-think of dutaing. upp 0» funeh, of ComeLesin the depths of haines domsest Avo! Gs att At ww all ovir
the W.S A! Low eur out of fwd whew you Suro Camels! Ce, od Rub, Ive spote= as Te Cook
puts it!

Back wm New Lov — welt — Sewn!

How never wan Auch Auovtiineby or Cod
