2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 9, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Open Forum Religious News With Other Colleges

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

A BURNING SHAME.

No right-thinking student can be other than proud of the strong, splendid men on the Davidson faculty; no one can fail to be moved by the courageous way in which our college president and his helpers are tackling the problems brought about by the fire. The members of our faculty are older and wiser men than the students and yet there are some things that have been earnestly pleaded for in these columns in the past which if realized would perhaps have saved Chambers. One of these was the concrete plea for an adequate fire fighting equipment, operating without which has been termed by old friends of the college a “very short-sighted policy.” Another was the plea that the better be stressed rather than the bigger in the college development along several lines—housing, classrooms, teaching force, etc.

Despite these things one fire after another in the immediate vicinity of the campus, and one in the Philanthropic society hall on the campus, have been allowed to pass without driving home their lessons, until our beautiful historic Chambers has been swept away. With insufficient hose, practically no pressure, and a water supply that soon gave out, the students stood helplessly by and saw their rooms burn with such of the personal possessions as in the rush to save themselves they had to leave behind, the value of this personal property alone being more than adequate fire protection would have cost.

Few of us thought before the fire that we would ever miss the old chapel bell, but now that we have to listen for bugle calls instead there are not many who would not be glad to hear its familiar tones once more.

Owing to the fact that last week's Davidsonian was two days late in appearing on the campus this issue will contain but four pages. A return to its accustomed size will be made next week, however.

The first issue of the Davidson College Magazine for the college year of 1921-22 is unusually attractive both in appearance and in content, and its editors are to be congratulated on their success in this too much neglected phase of our campus life.

From the number of candidates who answered the first call for basketball practice, it is evident that there will be a hot race for places on this year’s varsity five.

In other words, our growth has been a superficial one of late. Yet, even now in the talk of a money-raising campaign to overcome the loss of last week and carry us forward we hear of new dormitories in addition to the Chambers replacement, with the idea—judging from the past—of enrolling even more than 500 students, and, with it all, no talk of fire protection. We hear that Davidson is to be prepared to take care of more men when there are already more here than are really prepared for college and more than can be assimilated and can be taken care of properly.

In spite of these considerations, however, these men are not receiving the proper support from either students or townspeople. Shearer hall was hardly half filled for the performance of Mr. Ratto last Friday night, although the entertainment he presented was one of the best ever seen at Davidson.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

RICHARD S. P. PRICE Forum Editor
W. T. POLK Editor-in-Chief
J. S. CURRY Managing Editor
H. H. SMITH Asst. Managing Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
A. C. SUMMERS Alumni Editor
W. J. COOPER Publicity Editor
McKEITHEN Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Pres. E. D. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
GRAY, J. S., MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., HESTON, W. M.
BRONSON, M. P., JONES, J.
COX, W. M., ELKINS, L. D.
KNOX, W. I., ELLIOTT, W. T.
LACY, T., MAUZE, E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
Asst. Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

THE LYCEUM COURSE AT DAVIDSON.

Among the several forms of amusement enjoyed at Davidson, perhaps none is more pleasant or profitable than that found in the Lyceum numbers which are presented here from time to time. In former years it was customary for the Y. M. C. A. to undertake the task of providing for these entertainments, but for some reason this practice was eliminated from the list of activities supported by that organization. Since that time it has been only through the efforts of a few enterprising individuals that the student body has been privileged to enjoy these programs.

In doing this these men have rendered their fellows a service which few on the campus appreciate at its real value. Not only have they been furnishing a means of recreation to the students, but they have done so at a price within the reach of all, and at the same time they have steadily improved the quality of the talent which has appeared here. This last fact in itself should be sufficient proof that the Lyceum is not being presented here only for the personal profits of those in charge.The remaining programs are better attended than the last, it is certain that the quality of our lyceum numbers must be lowered in the coming year. Surely it is to the interest and with the of the student body to see that the present high standard of entertainment is maintained.

With another professors and thus be brought in line with the ideals that have made Davidson. It is difficult even with five hundred men to keep up the standard of Davidson in the old days when the strong men of our Church and country were developed here. Yea, it is not only difficult but it is not being done. With more than five hundred the situation is such a system would mean more money is needed and the personal liberty of the students, and the subject was dropped. Now that the loss of our main dormitory has reduced us to such crowded quarters, there is unquestionably a need for some concerted action on the part of the students to make study easier, and the inmates of Rumple have set a splendid example for the rest of the student body. These men have come together and entered into a gentlemen’s agreement that between the hours of 8 and 11 at night there will be no unnecessary visiting or noise in Rumple. This will make it possible for those who desire to study to do so without fear of disturbance, while their less studious neighbors will have little excuse left for idleness. This is the first attempt of the kind to be made at Davidson and it will be watched with a great deal of interest by both the friends and enemies of the plan. Whether it will prove a success or not is yet to be seen, but at any rate the Rumpleites have shown a splendid spirit, and one which their fellows can well afford to emulate.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms 150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brushed aside and the books opened for God keep Davidson College in town secured and filled, in a seemingly frantic effort to increase the enrollment.

VOLUNTEER UNION CONVENED IN CHARLOTTE ON SATURDAY.

Last Saturday afternoon and Sunday the third district of the North Carolina Volunteer Union held a conference at Queens College. Representatives were sent by the Mitchell, Lenoir, and Davidson bands. Then, of course, the entire Queens band was present to liven up things. Davidson was represented by Bitzer and Cunningham. W. W. Moore and J. P. Price, who were in Charlotte on a deputation, also attended the last part of the conference. The purpose of the conference was to stimulate friendship and co-operation between the bands of this district. Interesting and profitable discussions were made on the value of volunteer band deputation work and on how to go about establishing bands in colleges where there are none. The conference was really a get-together meeting where common problems and plans were discussed. On Sunday evening the delegates went to the A. R. P. Church to hear Moore and Price speak. North Carolina was divided into three districts at the last state convention. Miss Myrtle Williamson, the president of this district, is also president of the Queens Y. W. C. A. and Volunteer Band.

Needed badly at Davidson, but more students are not needed and more will weaken Davidson's usefulness, even though we might have two hundred professors and twenty dormitories. God bless Davidson’s splendid faculty and God give Davidson the means to make her equipment what is necessary, in the way of dormitories, classrooms, laboratories, professors, athletic equipment, and fire protection, to properly take care of her present number; but from trying to outstrip in numbers any other college trying to train all the young men in our Church in one college, which would mean such an increase in numbers that Davidson would not be Davidson but some new thing devoid of the close fellowship and the high ideals of life and scholarship which Davidson in the days gone by.

Guilford Dramatic Club to Offer French Comedy.

Guilford College, N. C., Nov. 30—“The Art of Being Bored,” a three-act comedy of French life will be given by the Dramatic Club, Saturday evening, December 3rd, in the auditorium. The business management is in the hands of the Y. W. C. A. as the proceeds will be given to that organization.

Junior-Senior Debate at Elon Won By Juniors.

Elon College, N. C., Nov. 29.—The annual linguistic combat between the Junior and Senior classes was staged here last Wednesday evening in the college auditorium when representatives from the classes of '22 and ’23 met on the public platform to debate the query, Resolved: “That Historically, Morally, and Economically Disarmament by International Agreement is Now Imperative.” Those upholding the affirmative were Messrs. L. J. Perry, W. B. Wicker and Miss Irene Golf, from the Junior class. Those supporting the Negative were Messrs. J. D. Messick, R. S. Rainey and Miss Mary Miller from the Senior class. The Judges rendered a two to one decision in favor of the affirmative.

Guilford Clubs Within State Are to Celebrate.

Guilford College, N. C., Nov. 30.—Friday, December 2nd will be observed as Guilford Day by the different County Clubs throughout the state. Banquets are being planned by some of these clubs, as a means of reviving the Guilford spirit. Students and faculty are co-operating with the clubs in making the day a success.

Dramatic Entertainment by Literary Society.

Elon College, N. C., Nov. 29.—The Philologian Literary Society of Elon College gave its annual public entertainment here on the evening of Thanksgiving Day. A cast of talented comedians and actors from the Philologian society presented to a large audience the comedy entitled “The Morning After.” This society has been noted in the past for its successful entertainments but many of those who enjoyed the two hours and a half of fun and laughter last evening declared that the program was even better than former programs given by the society.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. You know them.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faul, Mgr.
18 E. Trade St.
Phone 902

YOUR FURNISHINGS! Where do you buy them? We can fill your needs at POPULAR PRICES.
A. Pittle
Opposite the Southern Mfg. Club
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.