THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921

The Peanut Parcher

Dear Readers:

It is not the object of the Peanut Parcher to parch the peanuts on the campus, but to put in print a few fits of humor that throw themselves around the premises of our Alma Mater. So your earnest cooperation and help is solicited by this section of our Weakly.

'Tis So.

It is rumored that a fire insurance company has been organized on the hill to safeguard against all forms of conflagrations.

Prepared.

Prof.—Mr. Mauze, how are you getting along with your parallel work?
Mose—Doctor, I have secured a page in the book up at the library.

Solutions.

Visitor, watching one of the boys run the hurdles: "Say, why don't they move those things from in front of that boy? And now he carries a gun, so he can run?"

He is Right.

Porter—Say, boss, can't I brush you off?
Bricker—No, I will get off in the usual way.

Fresh Steele has bought a medicated brick for his team.

Bill Hodges was all for the fun,
He kept all the girls on the run,
Old Winston's the town for tobac,
But there's one thing that she seems to lack,
With Jeff at the head of the pack.

Spasm the Fourth.

Now Tubby's heart had a soft spot
For sweet Agnes Scott;
She told him she loved him,
Then turned 'round and shoved him,
So the poor boy is really upset.

Prize Bone.

There will be a free picture show tonight; there will be no admission at the door.

Roommates.

Carr is from Bainbridge, y'know,
The town where he left the side show.
They had on his booth,
"Right here is the proof
Of the old missing link," donchano.

C'est Tout.

Some are born fools, some achieve foolishness, and others have the Parcher thrust upon them.

Cutey.

Girls may come and girls may go
But our Sisses stay with us forever.
Djer-Kiss.

A Warning.

Storm signals were raised on the campus last week as torrents of water burst forth from the third floor of Watts.

Clyburn—"Dew, do you see this mark on my shoulder?"
New—"Yes."
Clyburn—"Well, it ain't CHALK."

FIVE FITS.

Spasm the First.

We are all very sorry to hear that Cop Vilas David Johnson has joined the convict gang.

DID YOU SEE HIS BROWN AND WHITE STRIPE SOCKS SATURDAY NIGHT OLD BOY?

Till Mars's old paw
Gave him one in the jaw.

Spasm the Second.

Wall Street News Discouraging.

Stock in the Senior Class ball team dropped several points today when it was learned that Gloom Walker would be the mainstay on the pitching staff.

Fact is: boys all make noise,
But they don't have the poise.

While Eating.

Some of the boys were talking about eating yeast cakes while sitting at the dinner table at Mrs. Brady's.
Mr. Helper—Say boys, it's no use to eat yeast cakes; it won't make you any better bred.

Spasm the Third.

With Apologies.

There was a young Fresh from Charlotte,
Who learned to play ball in a trot;
He thought he would take
And a D he would make,
But a paddling is all that he got.

What did Nero play while Rome was burning?
"There will be a hot time in the old town tonight."

What Makes the Firefly Glow?

You can hold a firefly in your hand; you can boil water with an electric lamp. Nature long ago evolved the "cold light." The firefly, according to Ives and Coblentz, radiates ninety-six percent light and only four percent heat. Man's best lamp radiates more than ninety percent heat. An English physicist once said that if we knew the firefly's secret, a boy turning a crank could light up a whole street.

Great as is the advance in lighting that has been made through research within the last twenty years, man wastes far too much energy in obtaining light. This problem of the "cold light" cannot be solved merely by trying to improve existing power-generating machinery and existing lamps. We should still be burning candles if chemists and physicists had confined their researches to the improvement of materials and methods for making candles.

For these reasons, the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company are not limited in the scope of their investigations. Research consists in framing questions of the right kind and in finding the answers, no matter where they may lead. What makes the firefly glow? How does a firefly's light differ in color from that of an electric arc, and why? The answers to such questions may or may not be of practical value, but of this we may be sure—it is by dovetailing the results of "theoretical" investigations along many widely separated lines that we arrive at most of our modern "practical" discoveries.

What will be the light of the future? Will it be like that of the firefly or like that of the dial on a luminous watch? Will it be produced in a lamp at present undreamed of, or will it come from something resembling our present incandescent lamp? The answers to these questions will depend much more upon the results of research in pure science than upon strictly commercial research.

General Electric Company
General Office, Schenectady, N.Y.

University,

As the Parcher goes to press it's all in a mess. So it's up to you fellows to lend us your aid and make it only the best.

Some Game.

Gaither—Say Sam, how are the Seniors?coming out? 

Sam: -The Fresh have us to nothing, Gaither. Looks like they are snowing the Seniors under. 

Sam: No, we have not been to the bat yet - fine.

THE FORUM (Continued from page 4)

pert violated their own resolution. Let the present rising Soph class determine that henceforth they will treat the Freshmen as they would have been treated last fall, and let the other upper-classmen respect the provision of our Student Body Honor System Constitution that “no student shall engage in hazing.”

Democrat

THE PASSING OF C. J.

Commencement this spring will mark the passing of an unusual student, one who has been “knocked” (and some of us worthy probably) but one who, when money matters were requiring attention, was called on to bring in the kale. The personality of Carl Jackson Matthews has been wrought into the college commissary and all three of the publications: Annual, Magazine, and Davidsonian. After a lapse of two years, the commissary was started again by him in the fall of 1916 and built on a real business so that though new in other hands, it is one of the real things on the campus. After two years during the period when no Magazine was published, the ING? was resumed in toto largely at the organization of C. J., who took hold as business manager. While there was some loss in the first year of resumed publication, the start last year has led to the really excellent Magazine which the present Magazine men have put out. In the spring of 1918, C. J., though not officially connected with the Annual, secured as much advertising for it as the business manager and his three assistants. This present year he has, as advertising manager, also helped in getting the advertising for Quips and Cranks. His work on the Annual in 1918 led to his appointment as assistant business manager of The Davidsonian, and in the spring of 1919, he was elected business manager. The paper was soon increased from a four-column paper to a five-column eight-page paper, and large ads were secured for it. The slogan “The Livest Wire on the Hill” was started and C. J.'s push was put into the paper. The circulation was increased from 1,200 to 1,800 and with the fine work of the editors, we now have a paper we can be proud of. Financial matters in connection with the paper could be better, but the paper is a real asset to the college and getting in better condition all the while, and much of its present usefulness is due to the energy and long hours of work put into it by the recently retired business manager. C. J. came to Davidson in the fall of 1915, dropped out two years, and is leaving this year. His name will long be remembered on the campus. May we have many other hustlers to work for the interests of old D. C.

Erastus.

SOUTHERN INTERCOLLEGIATE NEWSPAPER ASS’N. FORMED (Continued from page 4)

The committee on organization made its report and submitted a constitution and by-laws. After a few changes, the constitution was adopted as presented by Mr. Cotton, of Johns Hopkins. A. L. Doubles, of Davidson, made the report of the committee on nominations and put the following names before the convention, all of whom were accepted as read: for president, Mr. Leck, of the “Collegiate,” University of Richmond; for secretary and treasurer, Mr. Garst, of the same paper; for vice-president, Miss Wells, of the “Sun-Dial,” Randolph-Macon Woman's College; Mr. Denmark, of the “Emory Wheel,” Emory; and Mr. Deitch, of the “Orange and White,” University of Tennessee.

After the finish of a few minor points of business, the convention adjourned and was entertained by the University of Richmond-Catholic University baseball game.

OFFICERS FOR RISING SOPH CLASS ELECTED

At a meeting of the Freshman class, the following men were elected as officers for the coming year: A. M. Hillhouse, president; E. S. Faison, vice-president; J. W. De Armon, secretary and treasurer. The student councilmen have not yet been elected.

JUNIOR FOOTBALL TEAM ENJOYS INFORMAL FEED

Ice cream, cake, oranges, bananas, peanuts, chewing gum, ‘n everything were present in the greatest abundance at the recent football banquet of the class of ‘22. If these victorious athletes had been keeping training for six months, they would have been amply repaid by this magnificent array of “eats.” And every one of them seemed to have been keeping training for this special occasion. Sam Story especially showed an extraordinary capacity for ice cream. Of course, one of the main ideas of the celebration was to have a good time and everybody present soon became a groaning witness to its success. But perhaps the most important purpose of the banquet was to establish in the bunch the determination to put out a winning team next year. The success of this purpose remains to be seen, but is absolutely undoubted in the minds of those who were present.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone 25-W
CORNELIUS, N. C.

R-A New Narrow
ARROW COLLAR
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc.
Troy, N.Y.

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte
Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED
They will look new
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
Agency At the Powerhouse