6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

JAMES ERNEST THACKER

Among the clergymen who have graduated at Davidson, there is none better known than Dr. James Ernest Thacker, ‘90. Dr.
Thacker was born in Columbia, Mo., on December 14, 1869. He took his A.B. degree at Davidson, graduating with the
class of 1890. He then went to Union Seminary in Richmond, Va., where he graduated in 1893. In March 1894,
he married Miss Addie May Dixon, of New York. Miss Dixon is the sister of Thomas Dixon, the famous novelist.
Dr. Thacker was ordained to the Presbyterian ministry in 1893. His first pastorate was in Oxford, N.C., which pastorate he
held from 1892-96. Then he held for one year a pastorate in Louisville, Ky., from which place he went in
1897 to the Second Church of Alexandria, Va. In 1900, he went to the Second Church of Norfolk, Va. He
held this pastorate until 1909, when he was chosen Assembly Evangelist of the Presbyterian Church in the United States. Dr.
Thacker has just begun evangelistic services in the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. He is a man of pleasing personality
and a forcible speaker. He has held successful meetings in practically every Southern State. The series of meetings in Charlotte
will close Sunday night, October 16th.

Dr. Charles Alphonso Smith, head of the department of English at the United States Naval Academy, was the principal speaker
at the convocation exercises of the University of Virginia, September 29th, when the present session of the institution was formally
opened. Dr. Smith was for a number of years a member of the University of Virginia faculty and is recognized
as one of the foremost educators of the South. His brother, Henry Louis Smith, formerly president of Davidson, and now
president of Washington & Lee, will lecture here soon concerning his trip to England this past summer.

H. T. Lilly, ’18, is applying for the Rhodes Scholarship for the State of Kentucky. This summer he made an
extensive tour of Europe. He spent two weeks in England, visiting London, Oxford, Stratford-on-Avon, Warwick, and the English Lake District,
which is closely linked up with the lives of Wordsworth, Arnold, Coleridge, Ruskin, and Southey. From England, he went to
Holland, then to Belgium, France, Spain, and Italy, spending on the whole a very enjoyable summer.

Earnest Beatty, ’21, enters Columbia Theological Seminary this fall.

Rev. J. E. Hemphill, ’07, has been instrumental in forming a new church in the Oakhurst section of Decatur, Ga.
Rev. Mr. Hemphill is evangelist for the Atlanta Presbytery and is a great power in Christian work in that section.

Dr. D. P. McGeachy, '96, held during the summer a very successful meeting at Steele Creek, N.C. Dr. McGeachy is
pastor of the church in Decatur, Ga. His son, D. P. Jr., is a senior here in college.

Mr. S. W. Dendy, a P.C. graduate, field secretary of Christian Endeavor for the Southeastern States, is a first cousin
of H. B. Dendy, ’19, of Columbia Theological Seminary.

A recent marriage of interest to the alumni was that of Dr. W. L. Davidson, ex-’16, of Chester, S.C., to
Miss Nell Purvis, of Timmonsville, S.C. Dr. Davidson is a World War veteran and a prominent dentist of Chester. He
is the uncle of R. F. Davidson, of the Junior Class.

Joe Neisler, ex-’22, had charge of his father’s booth in the Made-in-Carolinas Exposition in Charlotte. With his winning smile, he
was no doubt a good drawing card.

Gene Lewin, ex-'23, is a movie operator in Charlotte.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Among the alumni who were on the hill for the P.C. game last Friday were: J. M. McBride, ’16, who
was en route for Union Seminary; J. W. Thompson, '11; W. C. Neel, ’19; N. Y. Pharr, ’19; Coit Hunter,
’19; D. C. Shaw, ’21; O. C. Williamson, ’18; W. B. Chandler, '07; R. K. Matthews, ’98; R. C. Hamer,
ex-’13; H. W. McKay, ’06; R. W. McKay, '17; D. M. Douglass, ’96; J. C. McMasters, ex-’21; H. E. Ruff,
’05; and R. T. L. Liston.

E. M. Alexander, ’21, is teaching in the Gulf Coast Military Academy at Gulfport, Miss.

J. H. Miller, ’19, and W. H. Cullum, ’19, are rooming together at Harvard this year.

T. Henry Wilson, ’20, of Gastonia, N.C., is studying in the Harvard Business School.

A. B. Curry, Jr., ’06, who is with Dr. Campbell White’s Bible School in New York City, has recently published
a book entitled “Jesus and His Cause,” which is being widely used by Bible classes this fall.

Wm. J. Love, ’20, is in the cotton business in Columbus, Miss.

MILITARY HAPPENINGS

Four hundred and fifty men of the Fifty-first Artillery, with eight six-inch rifles, eight eight-inch howitzers, 40 tractors, and 30
trucks, under the command of Major McCaskie, encamped at Davidson last Wednesday night. Early Wednesday afternoon, a warlike rumbling that
loudened into a mighty roaring took possession of the town as big caterpillar tractors pulled into town dragging their long-barreled
dogs of war. Guns and tractors were pulled to the campus side of Main Street and were strung out practically
throughout the full length of the town. The officers’ quarters, repair truck, and two rolling kitchens were parked in the
grove opposite the post office as this was the most centrally located point in the line. As soon as they
had gotten supper, most of the men went to work to wash as much road dust off as possible with
a basin full of water. Others in the mechanics’ section spent some time repairing their machines, while quite a number
sought the movies, pool room, and other places of amusement which our city does not possess. Davidson’s Main Street gave
the appearance of a very large city with soldiers, students, and spectators, all trying to get around at the same
time. After satisfying their curiosity, the soldiers retired to make their bunks beneath the tarpaulins that covered their guns. Among
the six-inch rifles was one used in France which is said to have fired more shots than any other gun
manned by Americans. She is known as “Dixie Girl,” and her record is around 1,400 shots. The Fifty-first saw service
in France and has a splendid record. Late Thursday morning, a visitor to Davidson would never have guessed that a
regiment of artillery had stopped in the town. For these men upheld two traditions of the American soldier. They behaved
as gentlemen while here, and they left their camping ground cleaner than they found it.

Hugh Orrell, of Knoxville, Tenn., a member of the advance guard of the Fifty-first Artillery, now moving from Camp Jackson,
S.C., to Camp Eustis, Va., was accidentally killed here last Wednesday afternoon when he and another soldier were caught between
two heavy army trucks. The detachment had halted here for the noon-day rest, and when the order to resume the
march was given, the driver of one of the trucks, instead of moving forward, threw the gears of his machine
into reverse and moved unexpectedly backward upon the truck in his rear. Orrell and his companion were standing between the
two trucks. The second man, whose name could not be learned, was only slightly injured.

In the next few weeks, sponsors will be elected by the battalion and each of the companies of the R.O.T.C.
These sponsors are to be...Selected from the young ladies of the town and are to be present at each special
parade or ceremony. On each battalion function day, they are to come to the parade ground in cars decorated with
the company colors. Each company is to decorate the car in which their sponsor rides, and it is proposed to
make this decoration competitive. This plan has been inaugurated at all of the larger R.O.T.C. units, including Georgia Tech and
Auburn, and has been proven to be a very helpful addition to the life and interest of the unit.

Capt. Julian H. George, the new addition to the local unit of the R.O.T.C., is a graduate of the University
of Virginia. He saw service with the Eighth Division in France, where he was seriously wounded. Having, by this time,
fully recovered from his injuries, he has been appointed to the Davidson unit.

The volunteer squad of guards at the recent P.C. game rendered very efficient service in keeping the sidelines clear. The
squad was under the command of Lieutenant Cooper and consisted of 15 men.

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Sophia Richards took charge of Miss Richardson’s class in the local Graded School Saturday afternoon when Miss Richardson left
for a weekend visit to her home in Mocksville. Miss Eloise Martin spent the weekend in Charlotte visiting Miss Cora
Harris. Mrs. Shaeffer, of New York; Miss Redding, of Huntington, W.Va.; Miss Lillian Floyd, of Charlotte; Misses Elizabeth Douglas and
Corinne Bailey, of Clinton, S.C.; Miss Agnes Moore, sister of Spratt Moore, and Miss Sara Workman, of Rock Hill, S.C.,
were visitors on the day of the P.C. game. Miss Corinne Bailey, of Converse College, and Mrs. C.M. Bailey, of
Clinton, S.C., visited Miss Eloise Martin last week to see the P.C. game. Dr. and Mrs. Brenizer, of Charlotte, and
their little son, Addison, were visitors of Mrs. Brenizer’s parents, Dr. and Mrs. Harding, last Sunday. Miss Jeanette Strickland, Mrs.
Hengeveld’s sister, is still enjoying her visit in Davidson. Miss Mary Thompson has returned from the Georgia Baptist Hospital, where
she has been in training for the past few months, and is rapidly recovering from an operation for appendicitis which
she recently underwent. William Black has had the misfortune of getting his leg broken in football practice at Fishburne Military
Academy, where he began his football career this fall. Sam Black, of the local High School football team, has recently
recovered from an attack of malaria. Miss Sara Thompson is still confined to her bed with malaria, but is expected
to be out soon.

Sunday was Sunday School Rally Day and the church was practically filled with young people. At the election of officers
for the coming year last Sunday afternoon, the local Christian Endeavor Society elected J.C. Wool, president; Miss Newtie Deal, vice-president;
Miss Nina Holt White, secretary, and W.H. Moore, treasurer. Captain and Mrs. Ellis are now living in the home of
Mrs. Worth, which they will occupy during the winter. A new officer has been added to the military force, Capt.
Julian H. George, of Charlottesville, Va.

Visitors on the hill for the P.C. football game Friday: Mr. Harry Hamer, S.C.; Mr. G.B. Wells, S.C.; Mr. George
Brauney, N.C.; Mr. Hugh Eikelburger, S.C. Among those sick during the past week were Mrs. Pettingill and Mrs. Cliff, the
aunt of Mrs. Arbuckle. Mrs. Cliff had a severe fall, dislocating her shoulder. Mr. Frank Crawford, Sumer, S.C.; Mr. John
C. McMaster, S.C.; Mr. B.W. Romefelt, Winston-Salem; Miss Lillian Floyd, Charlotte; Mr. Jack London, Charlotte; Mr. Sam McDonald, Charlotte; Mr.
James Stafford, Charlotte; Miss Virginia Loving, Charlotte; Miss Augusta Rose, Charlotte; Mr. Neal Y. Pharr, Charlotte; Mr. John Jamison, Charlotte;
Mr. Dick Kendrick, Charlotte; Mr. T.W. Hawkins, Charlotte; Miss Ellen Victor, Charlotte; Mr. F.W. Currie, Fayetteville, N.C.; Miss Doris Caldwell,
Charlotte; Miss Georgiania Caldwell, Charlotte; Miss Strickland, Waycross, Ga.; Mr. J.M. Gaston, Lowell; Mr. A.B. Clark, Charlotte; Mr. A.M. Nord,
Charlotte; Mr. George Ivey, Charlotte; Mr. Hutch Ham, Charlotte; Mr. W.C. Neal, Charlotte; Mr. L. Dotson, Statesville; Mr. Frank Grier,
Statesville; Miss Virginia Henkle, Statesville; Miss Lila Henkle, Statesville; Miss Lois Rogers, San Antonio, Tex.; Mr. R.T.L. Liston, Jacksonville, Ala.;
Mr. J.M. (‘Possum) Dunlap, Charlotte; Mr. and Mrs. C.H. Roseboro, Cleveland, N.C.; Dr. and Mrs. B. Fleming, Cleveland, N.C.; Mrs.
Chapin, New York City; Mr. John Gilbert, Statesville; Mr. James Alexander, Statesville; Mr. James Anderson, Statesville; Miss Agnes Moore, Rock
Hill, S.C.; Miss Sara Workman, Rock Hill, S.C.; Miss Lucille Smoak, Rock Hill, S.C.; Mr. J.H. Miller, Rock Hill, S.C.;
Mr. Joe Miller, Jr., Rock Hill, S.C.; Mr. LeConte Mackey, Charlotte; Miss Sarah Adelaide Mayes, Charlotte; Miss Margaret Maxwell, Charlotte;
Mr. B.R. Underwood, Charlotte; Mr. Joseph Choate, Charlotte; Mr. Roy Austin, Charlotte; Mr. Joe Crayton, Charlotte; Mr. C.R. Buckner, Clio,
S.C.

LIBRARY NEWS.

To those who appreciate the value of standard literature, the Library has some very pleasing information to give. The Library
has recently made several very important additions to its shelves, one being the “Social Problems of Porto Rico,” by Dr.
Fleagle. Dr. Fleagle’s book is a very interesting discourse on the social problems of Porto Rico, emphasis being placed on
those of the rural districts. Dr. Fleagle, formerly dean of the University of Porto Rico, now a member of our
faculty, first published this book in 1917, after being a resident of the country for 10 years. This fact makes
it very valuable as a source of information as well as of pleasure. The other acquisition is the library of
Mr. Richard N. Tiddy, donated through the generosity of Miss Sarah Tiddy, of Charlotte. These books, which are now being
unpacked, will add materially to the Library.

RECORD OF MATRICULATION BROKEN AGAIN THIS FALL

Davidson has again broken her matriculation record. For the past few years, she has been doing this each September, but
never before has the enrollment reached the number of 508. This, of course, includes the two co-eds who are attending
Davidson this fall. A few men have found it necessary to withdraw, as is always the case. The accommodating of
over 500 students has been made possible by the generous way in which many old men have agreed to take
in a third roommate. As soon as the new dormitory is erected, this will no longer be necessary. Five hundred
is said to be the ideal size for a college student body. It is large enough to participate in all
the inter-collegiate athletics, yet not too large to prevent the students from knowing each other and making of themselves a
big group of real friends.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.

SHOES FURNISHINGS

We are ready in this line
Army Shoes
Dress Shoes
and Tennis Shoes

We also have a good line of FURNISHINGS:
Knox & Barnette

WRIGLEY’S
“After Every Meal”
FOR FIVE CENTS
The Flavor Lasts!

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves
We want your business and you need our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS
CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES
“an’ everything”

Established 1873
A.H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.
