THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

I came to Colgate.
They sold me
Two hymn books,
A chapel seat,
A radiator and
Shower bath space.
They took my check
And laughed at me.
But I fooled ’em—
I had no money
In the bank.
—The ‘Targum.

SALESMEN WANTED—Get busy. Keep busy. Is your job unsafe? Is it permanent? You want a lifelong business. You can get into such a business selling more than 137 Watkins Products direct to farmers if you own auto or team or can get one; if you can give bond with personal sureties. We back you with big selling helps. 52 years in business; 20,000,000 users of our products. Write for information where you can get territory. J. R. Watkins Co., Department C, Winona, Minnesota.

THE RALEIGH

Give a Push. Old Time is slipping by—let him slide! Listen, Charlie. It is to be hoped that Charlie McCaskill doesn't try any more great miracles on us.

Oui, Oui! The Reporters’ Club has entered an objection to the indiscriminate use of “we” in this column. WE aren’t a bit surprised that they object to getting the blame.

J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

In spite of the fact that Mgr. McCaskill announced there would be “no admission” for students at the movies, a good many seem to have gotten in. Who is the dazzling blond?

Established 1873
A. B. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Second Class Matter, Anyhow. Information from Mitchell College reveals the fact that Horatorio Burney writes such long letters he can’t get them in an envelope, so he rolls them up like a newspaper and sends them for one cent. You can’t beat brains!

Fact? The English IV students are rejoicing over the latest addition to the college curriculum—the Eng. IV laboratory.

Huh? There may be nothing new under the sun, but what’s wrong with the idea of anchoring the stray end of your watch chain with a fish-line sinker?

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart

BY J.M. DUNLAP

The force of gravity would do well to confer with Happy McFarland and be convinced that we still have it with us. Happy rolled off the third deck the other night—he knows!

Juniors Hold Forth. Sanders looked to the Stars and Tufts told of The Hidden Territory. While Price tried to tame the Wildkittens, McIlwaine illustrated The Amateur Photographer. Cunningham tried to show he was The Greatest Man in America, but McGuikin went him one better since he was The Greatest Man in the World. Taylor, who discoursed on From the Chin Up, was also bettered by Spencer, who spoke on The Complete Man. Horton explained The Modern Dance and Lowrance came in with The Final Squeeze. While Bailey unwound his Business Possibilities, Cornelson wound up his Thread. Jones, who is still unmarried, contemplates Divorce, but R. H. Shaw asks Who? Parks elucidated on The Might of Little Things, such as if, which was proposed by Nash. Richards called us A Nation of Fools and Freeman answered That is the Man! The speeches were Cast into The Melting Pot and McKeithen lamented over the Fallen Idols. The Sixth Sense of Hanrahan enabled him to have Bitzer’s Optimism, but Doubles wanted to know Why? and Curry asked What Next? Clyburn, however, was wise enough to Prepare for the Crisis, and J. R. Jones called that Efficiency. Gosh! if it wasn't for Ormond’s Creed of Courage what would we do?

Paddle Your Own Canoe.

Thornton Whaling, President

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas

For nearly a century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary, Columbia, S. C.

and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

BREVARD, N.C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athleticsports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable. W. J. McCONNELL, McK. FETZER, Chapel Hill, N. C. Director Davidson, N. C. WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

Autumn Apparel Exhibits Ready of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. An R. O. T. C. sergeant calls attention to an oversight in this column last week. Besides Private Business, Corporal Punishment and General Nuisance, should be mentioned Major Offenses, who is also prominent in military circles. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

Not So Worse. And even at that Bobbie Long, of Glee Club fame, can console himself over the fact that it was celery and not onion tops which composed his banquet.

Same—Only Different.
Prof.—"And what were they noted for, Mr. Cassell?”
Eris—“Thinking!”
Prof—“Just right; they were very artistic.”

A. P. Ormond—“We've been discussing what the college has done for the Literary Societies—and it hasn’t done a thing!”

Who is the dazzling blond?

What Next? Groundhog Miller went to the auction sale Saturday and bought a pair of baby shoes and some curling irons.

Biff—Bang! A prominent music critic of Davidson recently got the following off his chest: “Some musicians play by note, others play by ear, but Houston White plays by main force.”

Referee Chalmers, of the Checker Tournament, reports great enthusiasm over this, the greatest of indoor sports, with but one exception. This exception—slinging old Taurus—is a great favorite of the students, a number even excelling at the sport. Maybe someone can start a tournament in this before long.

Experience—A Good Teacher. Those who dispute the existence of a rather efficient scheme, don't you think; making the ditches of wet weather serve for the walks when it’s dry, and vice versa?

Aspersions. C. K. soliloquized, “Well, I'm a monkey’s uncle!” Crack wanted to start a fight.

Special. Scribbling for The Davidsonian never did pass a ticket.

Horsed—by Himself. Fresh Walthall is growing younger as time goes on. He says he was 18 on his last birthday and will be 19 in a little over a year.

Senior—“Seniors aren’t what they used to be.”
Soph—“Goodness no! They used to be Sophs.”

Wow!
Soph—“Where’s your cap?”
Fresh—“On my knee!”

This Week's Bone. Cassell, standing in a room in Rumple as lights blink—“You know I can always tell whether it is Joe McCaskill or I who winks the lights. I give them a big wink,” said Cassell, “but Mac always gives two or three short ones.”

Who is the dazzling blond? (Watch for him next week).

In a list of subjects suitable for a short story handed in to Eng. V was included “The Modern Dress.”

Actress at Keiths—"If anybody wants to kiss me say coo-coo.”
Bob McLeod—“Coo, coo, I’m a buzzard.”

Henry Myers (at Asheville Store)—“Have you any dress shirts?”
Israelite Clerk (sizing him up)—“Want about a dollar shirt?”

PROGRAM
The new season sees changed conditions, models newer, smarter garments more skillfully tailored, faultless in pattern and color. Society Brand Clothes, Bobbs and Dunlap Hats; French, Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.

THE TATE-BROWN CO. CHARLOTTE

Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Feb. 24th, 25th and 26th
OVERTURE Academy Orchestra Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
ALFRED POWELL AND JOAN VERNIE Assisted by Adele—In a Live Wire Singing and Dancing Revue
BETTY BOND In “BONDED SONGS” by Alex Gerber
CLEVELAND AND DOWREY In A Satire on Present Day Conditions
EDWARD AND GEORGE GUHL “Two of a Kind”
BILLY AND GRACE BOHN “Just a Rehearsal”