THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

LITERARY VALUE OF BIBLE DISCUSSED AT “Y” SERVICE

“The Bible as a Literary Masterpiece” was the subject of Professor Erwin’s talk at the “Y” last Sunday evening. After
stating that the Bible was taught in many colleges today only for its literary worth, Professor Erwin showed that such
teaching was justified, first, because of its value as history. By citing instances he showed that the Bible was not
the history of Israel alone, but that it was an account of the history of mankind from the beginning of
the world down to the era of Christ; a record of civilization.

Leaving the historic worth of the Bible, Professor Erwin turned to its literary value. After mentioning that the stories of
creation and of the flood were very similar to stories of those incidents in other languages, he said that in
addition to this the Bible contained a great biography and drama in the book of Job. It also contains almost
every other form of literature: the oration, in Paul’s speech on Mars Hill; the short story, in the books of
Esther and Ruth; and the world’s only great religious poetry in the book of Psalms.

The last topic that Professor Erwin took up clearly showed the influence of the Bible on the English language. He
told of how, being translated by divines, none of whom were prominent scholars, it is recognized as being not only
the greatest Book in the world, but the greatest translation of any book. Translated at a crisis as it was,
the Bible became the constant companion of every Puritan and it obtained its hold on the English people at that
time, for then the Puritans were coming into power, led by Oliver Cromwell, and they have been in power ever
since. The Bible became the literary model for great writers from that day to this; Bunyan copied its style; in
it Milton found his inspiration, and even in this age Lord Dunsany admits that he tries to copy the style
of the King James version. Professor Erwin said that today there is even a rhetoric based on the Bible and
finally “that throughout the world the Bible is recognized as The Book.”

The service was closed with a cornet solo by George Dupuy and a prayer by Professor Erwin.

The S. & W. Cafeterias Charlotte are catering to you

SHOES FURNISHINGS

We are ready in this line Army Shoes Dress Shoes and Tennis Shoes We also have a good line of
FURNISHINGS Knox & Barnette

NEW YORK CAFE

We serve the best and Freshest Meats on the Market. "LOOK US OVER" STREET MOORESVILLE, N.C.

FOUR COLLEGES VISITED BY SECRETARY D. M. CHALMERS

Last week Dwight Chalmers, acting Y. M. C. A. secretary for North Carolina, made short but interesting trips of one
day each to N. C. State College, Wake Forest, Trinity, and Carolina.

With A. S. King as secretary, N. C. State has a strong “Y.” Possibly its strongest feature is its Bible
Study classes. The attendance at these is excellent, averaging about 90 percent of the student body. At Wake Forest five
lively B. Y. P. U. Societies are doing quite a bit of the work which would ordinarily fall on the
“Y.” The social program there is a very active one. Last Monday a trainload of “beauties” from Meredith College spent
the day at Wake Forest, it being observed as Social Day. Although Trinity has no Bible Study classes, the morning
watch, which is well observed, proves to be beneficial. With a budget of $6,000, and a “Y” building being erected,
Carolina expects to do some good work this year. Her first deputation team will be sent out tomorrow. Both Trinity
and Wake Forest are planning to secure secretaries for next year.Plans to erect a “Y” building soon. One of the
first things that Dwight noticed at Wake Forest was the Charlotte Observer account of the Wake Forest-Davidson football game on
their official bulletin board with the words, “Please do not remove” underneath. It is hoped and believed that Secretary Chalmers’
trip will not only stimulate the organizations which he visited to undertake greater things, but that the local “Y” will
be benefited by new ideas which he received from them.

HALO HALLOWE’EN CELEBRATION

The old town of Charlotte surely turned out. She cast cares to the winds, donned her costumes and ran rampant
last Monday night. The celebration around the square reminded one of the Davidson Snake Dance there about one year ago.
Next Saturday we are going down five hundred strong and pull a similar celebration. What do you say?

I want here to mention a few things for you to bear in mind, fellows, while you are in Charlotte
Saturday. Ed Mellons has just gotten in a new line of Hats and Caps. These are of a different shade
from anything you have seen there so far this season. Those Knox caps in gray tweed with the plain or
pleated back are surely classy. They are about the nicest things I have seen anywhere this season. While you are
in Charlotte you will have about two hours to kill before the game. Go to Ed Mellons which is just
off the Square on West Trade street and ask to see those caps and hats. It will not cost you
a cent to look at them and Mellons are the sort of folks who want you to look at their
stuff and tell them, frankly, what you think of it. —Adv.

Get Your Clothes Cleaned
The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
See their agent: W. Yonan
12 Chambers
The Ben Vonde Co., The best Dyers in the South

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C

CHARLOTTE POLLYANNA CAFETERIA

GOOD MORNING
HERE you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner---vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor---peculiar to
real North Carolina cooks---served in home style.

Meal Hours
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices
Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor

Fraternity Stationery
ART SHOP
Come in and look it over.
EVERSHARP PENCILS
Also Plain and College Seal Stationery
WAHL FOUNTAIN PENS
Orders taken for engraved visiting cards
MAKE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFTS
Postage prepaid on Mail Orders
W. I. VAN NESS & CO.
W.S. HENDERSON JEWELER
21 N. Tryon Phone 744

NONE TOO SMALL -- NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00
