*The DAVIDSONIAN*
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.
All articles must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Monday night. Articles received from an unknown source
will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
H. S. RICHARDS

Managing Editor
Y. P. ORMOND

Assistant Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
S. DOUBLER

Athletic Editor
Alumni Editor
McCASKILL

Exchange Editor
BOULWARE

Forum Editor
DUNLAP

Campus Editor
J. ROBERTS

Y. M. C. A. Editor
HILL

Social Editor
GASTON, JR.

Literary Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
King, A. D.
Ogden, D. H.
Lacy, T. A.
Ormond, A. C.
Long, C. G.
Phillips, J. W.
Mahood, I. L.
Sprunt, J.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Summers, A. C.
Morris, H. M.
Tuller, C. D.
Lowrance, D. W.
Wool, J. C.
Bailey, J. C.
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.
Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.
Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS
Business Manager

E. A. NASH
Assistant Managers

J. S. CURRY
Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

This week ushers in the baseball season in full strength. The team needs your support, so do not fail them.

We welcome the Christian Endeavor delegates to our campus.

The Sunday afternoon band concert was greatly enjoyed during Junior Speaking. What is to prevent this becoming a custom here
during the spring months?

A Davidson gentleman is always courteous to his elders and superiors.

A PARTING WORD.

This issue marks the last efforts of the present Staff to serve the readers of our publication. It has been
a pleasure to have attempted to bring to you the kind of paper that you desired, and if we have
failed in our task it is not because of the lack of earnestness and zeal on the part of the
editors and their assistants. While troubles unforeseen caused us to reduce the size of our publication, yet we have tried
in every possible way to maintain its standard of quality. And so it is with a sense of regret that
we now relinquish our work to our successors, knowing that for some of the editors it means the end of
a college career in which they have tried to serve their institution. We are glad to have had the opportunity,
and in parting take the privilege of wishing to our friends the best that life can bring them.

WHICH IS MY CLASS?

It has been interesting to note the discussion being waged at present in some papers as to whether a college
course really pays. There can be no doubt that many students fail to achieve the best results of a college
education, but it is our firm belief that this is the fault of the boy and not of the college.
For the boy entering college there are several paths that he may pursue, and the nature of the path that
he selects will determine whether his college education is to be a failure or success. As we see it there
are four classes or types of men in college; namely, the men who come to college for pleasure or because
it is a matter of style; the men who come solely for athletics; the men who come only for study,
and lastly the men who come to serve as well as to receive. Just at this time in the middle
of present-day civilization it is more important than ever that college men choose wisely their class, for their choice determines
whether they are to become leaders in the world or are to sink into obscurity. The man who comes just
for pleasure is fairly sure to develop into a “human parasite” who never does anything worthwhile. The man who comes
just for athletics, because of the glory and excitement attached thereto, is liable to seek the worldly life. The man
who comes just for study is heading for a selfish career because of his oversight of his fellowmen. But the
all-round student is the man to whom the world is looking to be her leader because of his high ideals
and ambitions to spend his life in service for others. No one can make this choice for you. It is
a straight personal matter for each student to decide for himself, and we would urge that each man be careful
in his college career which must of necessity determine his future life.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1921.

ABSENCE REGULATIONS.

The new absence regulations—are they more suited to a high standard college than to a junior college or preparatory school?
When a man comes to college he should come of his own free will and with the purpose of seeing
how much work he can do, not how much he can get out of. In other words, the man who
comes to college should not only handle his own financial matters, but he should be responsible as well for his
college life. The college trains the man for his position in life. If the man in college has not responsibility
thrust upon him, when will he get such training? Every man in business must certainly have enough responsibility to handle
his own problems. Can someone be always handling his affairs for him? Many of the men in colleges today; that
is, in many colleges, are comparatively young and certainly cannot be as responsible as the older men. Their check comes
in regularly from home. They keep no account of their expenses. This is all done for them, thereby relieving them
of all responsibility. Not only are his finances handled for him, but his class-room work and attendance in class are
all handled by college authorities. This is all very good for the young man—the prep school boy. Such a man
as this is not prepared for college and should not be there. Which man is going to get the most
out of college life—the man who handles his own affairs, or the man who has someone else handle them for
him? The country has not adequate facilities for offering a higher education to all her youth. All colleges are crowded
to overflowing with many applications waiting. This being the case, why should not those most worthy of, and who really
want to get an education, be selected first? Bringing the matter home, is Davidson the kind of college a hard-working
responsible student—the one who amounts to most in life—really wants? Does this type of student need strict absence regulations to
force him to attend classes? The majority of students at Davidson are of this hard-working type; in fact, that is
Davidson's reputation. Strict rules and regulations are no doubt just the thing for a few, but should the majority have
to suffer for the few? Are there not enough applications to fill Davidson full and to overflowing with the more
responsible type of student? Why then, should Davidson not make rules to accommodate this type of student and let the
others seek a junior college or preparatory school where they will feel more at home?

“Responsibility.”

INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATING TEAMS CHOSEN IN FINAL CONTEST.

The old walls of the Phi Hall echoed and reechoed with floods of oratory on Friday afternoon when eight men
hotly contested for a place on this spring’s debating teams. Four men were chosen by a preliminary contest in each
society and the final elimination was held Friday in the Phi Hall. The query was: “Resolved, that the United States
should cancel the loans made to her allies during the Great War.” The affirmative was upheld by A. P. Ormond,
R. Bitzer, J. F. Clark, and L. A. Taylor; whileThe negative was upheld by J. M. Dunlap, P. D. Miller,
C. G. Long, and W. A. Gamble, Jr. The judges decided in favor of Bitzer, Dunlap, Ormond, and Gamble; with
Miller and Taylor as alternates. The judges were Dr. McConnell, Dr. Shewmake, Prof. Wood, Prof. Currie, and Prof. Erwin. The
four winners will make up the two debating teams to represent the college in contests against Wake Forest and Mercer.
The Davidson-Wake Forest debate will be held in Raleigh on April 15, and the Davidson-Mercer debate will be held in
Spartanburg on April 20. The subject for both debates will be the same as used here Friday, and Davidson will
argue the affirmative side in both cases. Bitzer and Gamble will compose the team against Wake Forest; Ormond and Dunlap
against Mercer.

Mr. R. L. Douglass, Brother of Drs. J. L. and J. M. Douglass, and prominent lawyer of Chester, S. C.,
spent the weekend in Davidson with his brothers.

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

University Organizes Band—All Beverages Blacklisted.

Chapel Hill—Mr. J. Y. Jordan, of Asheville, a law student here and formerly in consular service at Brest, has just
organized a fourteen-piece band for the “Hill.” Mr. Jordan has had some experience in this line and his organization will
be in shape by the time of the first game of the season, March 23. The psychology department here is
carrying on an extended experiment with the children in the high school here as subjects. The test deals with intelligence
and is similar to one carried out by Dr. Chase here several years ago. The results will be compared with
those found at the earlier test.

“Fats” Hanby, who achieved distinction as guard on this year’s basketball team and also showed up well as tackle on
the gridiron, has been chosen captain of the basketball team for next year. Hanby was ineligible for basketball last year,
but prior to that time he played with Wake Forest, where he made quite a record. The student council has
decreed with great solemnity that absolutely no beverages shall be imbibed when the fair damsels wander up to the “Hill”
next week for the terpsichorean feats. In fact, they say that any man appearing at a dance who even smells
as if he wanted a drink will be shipped thereupon “without benefit of clergy.” The opinions of the council were
set forth by Mr. Bailey Lipfert, who says furthermore that every man is a councilman and that the system must
reach a status where a man will report his own roommate without compunction.

A whale skeleton 55 feet long has been recently unearthed on the banks of the Tar by Mr. Sam Lee
of the geological department and is being sent to Chapel Hill.

Georgia Tech has at last secured permission from the faculty to publish a comic magazine, and the first issue of
the “Tornado” will appear in a short time. The Editor-in-Chief is J. E. Briggs, Jr., and the Business Manager is
R. E. Beamon, Jr.

The “Auburn Five Thousand Dollar Club,” composed entirely of present and former women students of the Alabama Polytechnic Institute, was
organized March 3, for the purpose of raising $5,000.00 to help equip Smith Hall and a Domestic Science Department for
women students. Plans have been formulated for raising the fund and the money is to be in the hands of
the committee at an early date.

Sherwood Eddy, foremost leader in the study of student social and religious problems, who will conduct a series of meetings
here beginning Tuesday night, will be the speaker at the University Hour in Cabell Hall, at 12 o’clock on Tuesday,
March 22. Mr. Eddy's subject for this meeting will be, “The Challenge of the Present World Situation.”

“In 1876," remarked the old man, “girls wore dresses down to their ankles. In 1900 they came between the ankles
and the knees. In 1920 they came to their knees.” “Oh, Lord,” prayed the old man, “won't you let me
live about ten years longer.”

Upon the beach she held my hand. I let my soul-felt pleadings flow; I coaxed, I begged, I swore, but
yet— That doggone crab would not let go.
—Punch Bowl.

Devereaux Players at Wake Forest.

Wake Forest—The famous Devereaux players gave two performances before delighted audiences here on Monday, March 14. Rostand’s “Romancers” was the
matinee offering. It is a very pleasing play and the splendid work of Miss Zinita Graff and Mr. Ford made
it doubly attractive. At the evening performance, the captivating play, “Daniel Druce,” was presented in a manner that delighted a
large audience.

Taking as his subject “War Declared,” D. R. Hodgin, representing Carolina, won first place in the second annual contest of
the Southern Oratorical League held here Friday night, winning over representatives of five other Southern universities. Johns Hopkins University won
second place and Kentucky took the third honors.

Well, Well!

Conversation in the drug store:
Drug Clerk—“Do you want a narrow man’s comb?”
“Venus” Edmundson—“No, I want a comb for a stout man with rubber teeth.”

Junior-Senior Prom and Tennis Tournament at Salem.

Salem—The spring tennis tournament played during the past week confirmed our belief that Elizabeth Zackery is the champion tennis player
in school. The Westbrook trophy cup was presented to her by Dr. Rondthaler at chapel service Thursday morning. May 7
is to be an important date here. The reason is that the “Junior-Senior Prom” will be held at that time,
and men will be allowed in our midst.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE BAND

Love Secret.

Mary had a little calf, She was ashamed to show it. And Mary hoped with all her might Her beau
would never know it. She always took the greatest care To keep it under cover. But a mouse ran in
the room, Now Mary’s lost her lover.

(Continued from Page 1)

movies had it not been for the timely intervention of a “cop” on Pack Square. Thomas Meighan was there filming
a feature picture, and it seems that “Willie P.” was anxious to be included as a member of the cast.
About 6 o'clock each one presented himself at the college and was escorted to the dining room. The boys say
this was some treat, to eat a meal with so many of the fair sex around. It seems that K.
B. McCutcheon framed up with one of the young ladies, for when train time came around the next morning, K.
B. discovered that his instrument hadn't been sent with the others. A lively chase with old Father Time ensued, in
which “K. B.” was successful. Arriving in Lincolnton Saturday afternoon, the boys were met by automobiles and taken to the
different homes for supper. This last performance was by far the best of the three, being given in the High
School Auditorium. After enjoying a social hour with the young ladies of the town, the organization left in autos bound
for Davidson, arriving here at 11:59 p.m. Saturday night. Those so fortunate as to make the trip were: Dupuy, Nesbitt,
Beck, McCutchen, Hill, Walker, Booth, Love, Johnson, Sheffer, Hollingsworth, DeLorme, White, Buchanan, and Director Freeman.

The Good Old Days.

“There are no more enterprising young men. Why, I remember when it was a common thing for a young man
to start out as a clerk, and in a few years own the business.”
“Yes, but cash registers have been invented since.”

Late to bed and early to rise, That’s the way with these college guys.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)

tionals, special music, address by Rev. Daniel Iverson, of Charlotte. Probably a stereopticon. Sunday, 2 to 5—Song service, devotionals, one-minute
reports of best work done by the societies, address by Southern States Secretary C. F. Evans, conference on methods by
Mr. Evans and Field Secretary Wilson. Sunday, 6:45—Model Christian Endeavor prayer meeting. 7:30 to 9:15—Song service, devotionals, address, closing consecration
service.

Among the visitors at the ball game Saturday afternoon were, Mr. and Mrs. A. M. McDonald, Mrs. J. C. McDonald,
and Miss Kathryn McDonald, of Charlotte; guests of S. H. McDonald, '24.
