FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON LIFE WORK CAMPAIGN BEGINS TONIGHT

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 21, 1921. No. 15

FRAZER HOOD TO DIRECT THIS TERM’S GLEE CLUB

Due to unavoidable circumstances, the Glee Club was not able to begin work till recently, but all lost time has
been made up by the extra efforts during the last few days. Mrs. Hood, who has had considerable experience in
training college musical organizations, and who is a very talented musician herself, has kindly offered her services in rounding into
shape the raw material which has responded to the call for musicians. Almost all of last fall’s club and a
few of the new men are trying for places in the organization. The latest music available, both classical and popular,
has been obtained and from this a very entertaining and interesting program will be selected. The club is practicing five
nights a week and will soon have their program completed. An additional feature which should add to the many numbers
will be a stringed orchestra, consisting of mandolins, guitars, banjos, and violins. The manager, C. J. Mathews, states that the
club has already secured a number of engagements in nearby cities of this state and that plans for an extended
southern trip into South Carolina and Georgia are well under way. This trip alone will be a worthy reward for
all the weary practice hours. With the abundant talent and the excellent director, the Glee Club promises to be the
best in many years.

‘We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.’

Excellent Basketball Schedule Arranged by Manager Miley

Nine Games to be Played on Hill—Three Trips Arranged for Team

Davidson will open her 1921 basketball season on January 25, playing the Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte on that date. The
schedule for this year is an unusually good one, providing for 18 games, nine of which are to be played
at Davidson. This is quite an improvement over the schedules of former years, which usually called for only four or
five games on the home court. Three trips will be taken by the team, one into Virginia, and two into
different sections of North Carolina. The schedule for the season is as follows:

January 25—Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte.
January 28—Guilford at Davidson.
January 29—N. C. State at Davidson.
February 2—University of Virginia at Charlottesville.
February 3—Elk’s Club at Lynchburg.
February 4—Washington and Lee at Lexington.
February 8—Elon College at Davidson.
February 10—University of Florida at Davidson.
February 11—Citadel at Davidson.
February 16—Elon College at Elon.
February 17—N. C. State at Raleigh.
February 18—University of N. C. at Chapel Hill.
February 22—Open at Davidson.
February 24—Charlotte “Y” at Davidson.
February 26—Clemson at Davidson.
March 1—Guilford at Greensboro.
March 2—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
March 3—Wofford at Charlotte.

‘We Want 80 Students Next Year. Begin Now.’

Valparaiso University, Indiana, has reorganized, selected a representative board of trustees, elected a new president, and is out for a
million-dollar endowment. This marks a new epoch in a remarkable school.

Lewis Schenck is Popular Captain of This Year’s Five

He is Playing His Third Year as Varsity Guard on Davidson Court

The Wildcats’ 1921 basketball team is unusually fortunate in their selection of captain. Lewis Schenck has well demonstrated his right
to this position in many hard-fought games. His career as a basketball star commenced with his freshman year, when he
was a substitute on that long-to-be-remembered team, featuring Coach Hengeveld and George King, which met with such phenomenal success in
the Carolinas and Virginia. During his sophomore year that old adage, “You can’t keep a good man down,” was vividly
illustrated. Lewis played stellar ball at guard throughout the whole season and held down his position in a way that
brought back happy recollections of the days of Al Reese. Unfortunately for Davidson, Lewis was hurt in the first game
of the season last year and was consequently unable to play the remainder of the games. His loss was seriously
felt by the team, a handicap which was very hard for them to overcome. It can be easily seen from
his past history what is to be expected from him in the future and all may rest assured that he
will pilot the Red and Black quintet to many a victory during the approaching season.

‘We Want 8 Students Next Year. Begin Now.’

Drs. Grey and Harding attended the meeting of the American Physiological Association in Baltimore.

‘We Want 90 Students Next Year. Begin Now.’

Dr. Moore McConnell and family spent the holidays in York, S. C.

‘We Want 90 Students Next Year. Begin Now.’

The Christmas season brought with it many joys for all, especially to the home of Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake in
the form of a bouncing boy.

‘We Want 900 Students Next Year. Begin Now.’

Stricken Freshman (to pretty co-ed): You are the breath of my life, Caroline.
Blushing Co-ed: Oh, really? Then —Mississippian.

Coach Grey Brings Message to Students

Discusses “The Powerful and Lasting Influence of Personal Example”

When Coach Grey had finished his address before the Y. M. C. A. on Sunday night there could have been
no doubt in the minds of any who heard him as to why the Wildcat team struggled with such splendid
spirit and morale during the season just passed; for with a real man as leader, a man whose ideals and
principles of action are such as those held by Coach Grey, results could not well be otherwise. Taking as his
subject, “What kind of an example are you setting for your fellow students?” Coach discussed the powerful and lasting influence
of personal example upon one’s associates. There are as a whole three general classes of men from this viewpoint:

(1) Those who openly set a bad example for and have an evil influence upon others.
(2) Those who are just strong enough to keep from doing wrong, yet are unable to help others to the
right.
(3) The man who sets a good example, who stands firmly for the right, and who is a power for
helping others.

The true example of the Christian believer is the manly man, the man with plenty of action; who is not
just a good fellow, but a human good fellow with a helpful attitude toward others; who stands firm for all
that is right. Everyone admires the man who stands resolutely for some definite principle, whether that principle be for the
best or not, but the man is both liked and admired who stands for the best that there is in
life. The fellow who stands fast for his principles, and whose principles are right, has a powerful influence over his
associates, and can do measureless good if he will only take advantage of his opportunities. So great is this force
of example that if two-thirds ofthe students of this institution would make good examples of themselves, and try to lead
others to the right, the forces of evil would have no show whatever on the campus. This is a serious
duty and a great privilege, and knowledge of the fact that the influence of example is a powerful one should
be a strong deterrent to wrong actions. The devotional part of the service was conducted by “Buck” Currie, assisted by
O. J. Allison, '24, who gave a well-selected solo; and by Buchanan and Booth, who gave a saxophone duet. The
attendance was exceptionally good and shows that the “Y” services are gaining favor among the students.

We Want 90 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

WHAT, WHEN AND WHERE.

Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Literary Society; 8:00 p.m., Life Work Conference begins; Dr. W. T. Thompson, Leader, Shearer Hall.
Friday—8:00 p.m., Second Address by Dr. W. T. Thompson.
Saturday—6:45 p.m., Eu Literary Society; Movies: Wallace Reid in “The Dancing Fool;” 8:00 p.m., Second show.
Sunday—10 a.m., Bible Classes. 11 a.m., Dr. W. T. Thompson at Presbyterian Church. 3:30 p.m., Davidson College Sunday School class
at Presbyterian Church; Dr. Frazer Hood, teacher. 6:15 p.m. Last Address by Dr. Thompson at “Y” Service.
Tuesday—Davidson vs. Charlotte “Y” in Charlotte.

Much Interest Manifested in Coming of Dr. Thompson
Conferences and Personal Interviews to Occupy Four Days of His Stay on Campus

“Tolly” Thompson arrived today and will open Davidson’s first “Life Work Conference” tonight at 8 o'clock. Everyone in the student
body is interested in the question, “After college what?” and if any man could help a person answer that question,
that man is Dr. W. T. Thompson. Practically every member of the Junior and Senior classes has already made arrangements
for a ten-minute interview with Dr. Thompson, and the rest are rapidly filling up the few open dates left. In
addition to the personal interviews, he will speak on Thursday and Friday nights at 8 o’clock. He will occupy Dr.
Richards’ pulpit Sunday morning at 11 and will complete the conference with a final talk in Shearer Hall, Sunday night
at 6:15 o'clock. His subjects will not be confined to preaching and teaching, but will include business life, law, engineering,
and other very practical and real forms of life work. The music will be in keeping with the high order
of the addresses. A special “Y” quartet has been organized. A “Y” orchestra will be on hand, in addition to
the band that has helped in the meetings all fall. Special selections will feature each service. If you haven't your
interview already lined up, see Flynn Long about it. Don't forget the floor prayer meetings tonight and throughout the week
at 10 o'clock. With “Tolly” Thompson and your help the “Life Work Conference” will be a lively and happy occasion.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

VISITORS ON THE HILL.

Visitors of the Kappa Alpha Fraternity on the hill last Sunday were: Mrs. M. R. Marshall, Mrs. W. S. Lee,
and Misses Martha Lee, Faith Price, Virginia Whitlock, and Virginia Loving, of Charlotte; Miss Cary Harrison, of Gastonia, and Mr.
Henry Wilson, ’20, of Gastonia. J. C. McMaster, ex-'20, of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity, one of our former football stars
was a visitor Saturday afternoon and Sunday. Other visitors were Mr. Squire Wilson, of the class of ‘20, and Mr.
C. H. Pierce, of the class of ‘05.

We Want 80 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

Mrs. Hood and daughter, Katista, spent the holidays in Memphis, Tenn., visiting friends.

Basketball Squad Put Through Hard Practice
Hot Fight Being Staged for Positions on ’Varsity—Number of Candidates Cut to 20

For the past two weeks the gym has been the scene of much activity. With the return of all the
men from the holidays, basketball practice has taken on a new aspect, and the squad is being fast rounded into
shape by Coach Hengeveld. The season will open next Tuesday, when the team will meet the Charlotte “Y” in Charlotte.
Between now and that time all the kinks should be smoothed out and the old Red and Black quint should
be moving easily. In order to get the best result out of the material on hand, the squad has been
picked and much time is being spent by Coaches Hengeveld and Grey, assisted by Chalmers, last year’s captain and guard,
in perfecting the workouts. The Varsity squad is now composed of Roberts, Schenck, J., Romefelt, Schenck, L., Shepherd, W., Davis,
Crawford, Ormond, A. C., and Doubles. The remainder of the squad is composed of Ormond, A. P., Mauze, Price, King,
Hunter, Alexander, Toney, Brake, McConnell, McDonald, Pitts, DeArmon, and McPherson. The line-up as yet is quite shaky and changes will
probably be made before the opening whistle next Tuesday. Scrimmages have just begun, and much interesting dope is to be
seen which did not develop during the light practice held heretofore. The team will be well balanced this year and
there is no reason why this season should not produce the best five seen in action here in years.

We Want 50 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

Student Body Shows Gratitude to Football Players
Sweaters and Gold Footballs Presented to This Year’s Letter Men

The fact that the “D” is one of the most prized possessions, and one which every true Davidson man desires
to wear, was shown in a meeting of the Athletic Association, by the applause of the students when their heroes
of the gridiron came forward to receive their tokens of esteem and honor. Dr. J. Moore McConnell made the speech
of presentation of letters and gold footballs, showing that the record of the Davidson teams has been largely due to
the work of old Davidson stars as coaches, as well as to the “do or die” spirit of the players
themselves. In awarding the monograms and gold footballs, Dr. McConnell stated that the “D” stood as much for determination as
for Davidson. Captain Hammett, who was chosen by ten Southern coaches for the All-South Atlantic, was presented in addition to
the letter and football, a gold watch and chain in appreciation for his wonderful work. The following men received the
rewards for their valiant service on this year’s Wildcat gridiron team: McCaskill, D. Hammett, D. LaFar, D. Rothefelt, D. Brady,
D. Douglas, D. Davis, D. Cassell, D. Shepard, N. W., D. Schenck, D. McFadden, D. Bethea, D. Shepherd, W. S.,
D. Moore, D. Faison, D.

It’s Not Too Early to Begin Work For a BETTER DAVIDSON Next Year.
