THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921

Alumni News

DR. MOORE DESCRIBES DAVIDSON IN EARLY 70s

Tells of the Condition of Athletics at That Period.

Dr. W. W. Moore, while on the hill a few days ago, in an interview with a Davidsonian reporter, gave
a description of Davidson as it was when he attended the institution. In 1874, the year of Dr. Moore's entrance
here, the University of North Carolina was closed on account of some political mix-up. Hence the student body of Davidson,
as the leading college of the state, was swelled to the unusual number of a hundred and forty. Sixty men
composed the Freshman class; however, Dr. Moore relates, only 12 “came under the pole” at graduation time. The faculty was
then composed of seven professors, among whom were Colonel Martin, father of Dr. W. J. Martin; Dr. Hepburn, later president,
and Dr. Thornton, now professor of applied mathematics at the University of Virginia.

The athletic equipment of Davidson, according to Dr. Moore, was made up of a baseball diamond at the south end
of Chambers, a horizontal bar, and the south wall of Chambers, made use of in a game called ball-alley, very
much like our present game of handball. Their rather limited equipment led to the use of the first-floor hall of
Chambers building as a recreation center. A favorite sport was the driving of a wooden ball with shimmey sticks along
this hall. On one occasion the wooden ball struck a student on the ear, and his death resulted.

A high plank fence surrounded the entire campus and was crossed by a stile just behind the Eu Society hall.
It was over this stile that the boys climbed on their way to Helper’s Store (the forerunner of Jew Elliott’s).
Of course, the trees on the college grounds were young at this time and there was no means of lighting
the campus when old Sol laid off the job.

Since Dr. Moore’s college days, the entire plan of the college grounds has changed. Instead of the chapel being the
center and the entrance to the campus being at the south, all improvements and buildings at present are grouped around
Chambers and the entrance to the campus is from the west.

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

The entire community was deeply saddened when the announcement of the death of Mr. Dozier A. Lynch, ‘10, which occurred
at Edgefield, N. C., on March 5th, was heard. Mr. Lynch was born February 9, 1889, and graduated from Davidson
College in 1910 with high honors. After leaving Davidson, he entered the law department of the University of North Carolina
and at the close of his Junior year there he decided to take the Senior year in law at the
University of South Carolina. While in his Senior year at South Carolina, he accepted a position as private secretary to
Judge Woods. Mr. Lynch was known as a very diligent student, being especially noted as an orator.

Early in the spring of 1912, Mr. Lynch became a victim of tuberculosis and spent three years in a private
sanitarium in Asheville and later went to Fort Stanton, New Mexico, where he has since resided. Two weeks ago, Mr.
Lynch went to Edgefield from Fort Stanton to visit his mother and died there at about 12 o'clock on March
5th. Mr. Lynch’s many friends who were students with him will be shocked to hear of his death, especially since
it was caused by tuberculosis, for he had such a strong constitution while at Davidson. Our warmest sympathy goes out
to those who survive him—his mother, Mrs. Kate Lynch; and his two brothers, W. C. Lynch, of Edgefield, and W.
E. Lynch, of Rowland, N. C., in their bereavement.

More than 60 Davidson men were recognized among the delegates at the Laymen’s Convention in Greenville last week, among them
being Lacy McAllister, '20, and R. C. Long, a brother of C. G. and F. V. Long. Among the Davidson
alumni living at Greenville and especially interested in the success of the convention were: H. T. Mills, '06; J. W.
McNeill, '04; L. A. Mills, ’07; R. I. McDavid, '06; W. R. Cely.‘07; “Steve” Walker, '17; Jack Black, '20; and
F. K. Spratt, '04. Sam Burney Hay, '16, is a student at Columbia Seminary. John Blanton Belk, ex-'17, was a
member of the Columbia Seminary Quartet which added so much to the pleasure of the Laymen’s Conference at Greenville. W.
A. Goodman, '97, spent the weekend at Davidson, coming especially to hear the lectures by Dr. Moore. John M. Wolfe,
'97, was here also. He is now in the offices of the Southern Power Company, in Salisbury. Dr. Martin, having
been sick for several days, went to the hospital in Salisbury last Sunday. J. Edwin Sanders, '20, is now teaching
school in British Columbia. His present address is 1597 N. Hampshire Road, Oak Bay, Victoria, B. C. B. F. Quigg,
'09, is now superintendent of the schools of the city of Rome, Ga. James Stough, ex-'18, former Davidson star, who
managed the Cornelius team in the County league last year, has signed with Little Rock and left Charlotte last week
to report for spring training. He will play either first base or one of the outfield positions.

Camel Cigarettes

DR. EGBERT W. SMITH A DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS Is Now Secretary of Foreign Missions in Southern Presbyterian Church.

Egbert Watson Smith, '82, was born at Greensboro, N. C., January 15, 1862. His parents were Rev. J. Henry and
Mary Kelly Smith. He received his A.B. at Davidson College in 1882 and graduated at Union Theological Seminary in '86,
only six years later. Davidson honored him with the D.D. degree. Dr. Smith married Miss Mary Wallace, of Franklin, Tenn.,
April 15, 1891. He was ordained into the Presbyterian ministry in '86 and became superintendent of evangelical work in the
N. C. Synod in '91. He was called to the pastorate of the First Church in Greensboro in '93, which
position he occupied 12 years. After leaving Greensboro he went to Louisville, Ky., and was the pastor of the Second
Presbyterian Church of that city for a period of five years. In 1911 Dr. Smith was called by the General
Assembly to take charge of the Secretaryship of Foreign Missions of his Church, and which position he still holds. In
all the positions Dr. Smith has held he has served faithfully and well. In 1901 he published his book, “The
Creed of Presbyterians,” which has attained a widespread popularity among the churchmen of this country. Dr. Smith is one of
the most illustrious of all Davidson's alumni, and we are watching eagerly for further achievements resulting from this great man’s
efforts. Dr. Smith has two brothers, both alumni of Davidson, that are equally prominent in the religious and literary world.
They are Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, head of the English Department at Annapolis, and Dr. Henry Louis Smith, ex-president of
Davidson, and now serving in that capacity at Washington and Lee.

White’s Meat Market BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED Phone 25-W CORNELIUS, N.C.

New Central Hotel In the center of the theatre and shopping Thoroughly modern and up-to-date Where Courtesy and Service is
the motto Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Camels are such a revelation in quality! COMPARE Camels with any cigarette in the world at any price and you
will realize how unusual and delightful they really are. And then, too, you will better understand why Camels are universally
smoked throughout the nation! Camels were created to be the finest cigarette ever made both as to quality and the
enjoyment they provide. They were made to excel in refreshing flavor and wonderful mellow mildness any cigarette you ever smoked—and
they do! Your taste will prove that! You'll keenly appreciate the smooth, much-desired delightfulness that comes to you from Camels
expert blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos—and—Camels freedom from unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste and unpleasant cigaretty odor! And, it’s
real satisfaction to be able to smoke Camels as liberally as you like because they never tire your taste! R.
J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED They will look new The Ben Vonde Co. The best Dyers
in the South Agency At the Powerhouse

Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.
