‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS
Births, Marriages and Deaths.

Mr. and Mrs. W. T. Witt, ’16, of Birmingham, Ala., announce the birth of William Tazwell Witt, Jr., on September
14, 1921.

Rev. and Mrs. R. A. McLeod, ’09, announce the birth of a son, Randolph Alexander, Jr., on September 19, 1921.

Jim Witherspoon, ’20, is a student of the rising middle class at Union Theological Seminary, and has been for the
summer assisting the pastor of the Glade Valley, N. C., Presbyterian Church.

H. B. Dendy, ’19, now a member of the senior class at Columbia Seminary, rendered during the summer most excellent
evangelistic service at several places in Asheville Presbytery.

Paul C. Meng, ’21, is preparing for the ministry at Hartford Theological Seminary, Hartford, Conn.

Tommy Hawkins, ’20, was on the hill last week and indulged in a little tennis. He is taking his second
year of law at Carolina.

Last Tuesday, Lewis P. Good and M. A. Siske, both M.A.’s in ’20, spent a few hours on the campus
before going to Johns Hopkins for their second year of medicine.

W. R. Cely, '07, of Greenville, S. C., attended the Made-in-Carolina Exposition last week and made a short visit to
Davidson.

Rev. Donald W. Richardson, of Nanking, China, has lost his only son, Donald, Jr., a boy of 13 years of
age. Mr. Richardson is spending his furlough in Richmond, Va.

H. B. Fraser, ’18, married on September 15, 1921, Miss Clarinda Caldwell, of Bartow, Fla.

Geo. B. Hoyt, '16, has a new arrival at his home named Betsie Patterson.

L. H. Smith, ’12, was married on September 24th to Miss Phyllis Page, of Charlottesville, Va. They will make their
home in Easley, S. C.

J. B. Woods, '18, is doing interne work at the Richmond Hospital, of Richmond, Va.

James P. McNeill, Jr., '17, received his M.A. and L.L.B. at the University of South Carolina last year.

Rev. J. T. Gillespie, ’17, is now located at Bryson City, N. C. Mr. Gillespie was graduated from Columbia Theological
Seminary and married in May of this year.

G. N. Morris, ex-’24, is farming at his home near Marion, N. C.

R. McGill Palmer, ex-’24, is taking an engineering course at the University of Tennessee.

J. H. Spragins, ex-’22, graduates this year at Arkansas College.

Dr. J. McLain Rogers, '13, and Mrs. Rogers are returning from Korea. Dr. Rogers has had charge of a hospital
at Soonchun, Korea, but is forced to return on account of his wife’s health.

H. E. Wyman, ex-’22, and Doc McConnell, ’20, are studying medicine at the Medical College of Charleston, S. C.

S. S. Oliver, '96, is preaching in Fincastle, Va. He is the father of S. E. Oliver, '24.

E. R. Boney, ’20, is working in the post office of Kinston, N. C.

Henry Britt, ex-’20, is farming near Marion, N. C.

J. D. Spragins, Jr., ex-’22, took his A.B. degree at Arkansas College and is now in college working for his
M.A. degree.

W. B. Carr, ex-’23, and E. C. Hammond, ex-'24, are attending Georgia Tech this fall.

H. I. Coffey, ’20, is in the furniture business in Lenoir, N. C.

H. White, '21, is now Professor of Modern Languages in Tech High School, Atlanta, Ga.

N. W. Shepherd, ex-'23, is spending the week here.

N. P. Baba, ’21, is at the University of Pennsylvania studying medicine.

Furman C. Long, ex-’22, is connected with the Standard Oil Company, Charlotte, N.C.

H. A. Hill, ’21, is tutoring in private families “among the Four Hundred” on Fifth Avenue, New York City.

R. C. Clontz, ex-’21, is now pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Cornelius, N. C.

H. C. Hamilton, ’20, was on the hill last week.

Dr. D. M. Douglas, ’95, president of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, will motor up to Davidson Friday for
the game.

G. I. Kirkpatrick, ’07, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Lillington, N. C.

J. Sam Mitchener, ’09, of the State Board of Health, was in Charlotte last week to witness the “Made-in-Carolina” exposition.
His recent article on Diphtheria Antitoxin has attracted considerable attention among medical men.

A. L. Fosque, '20, is now located at Mount Holly, N.C.

Alfred E. Scarborough, ’15, is a prominent planter in Eastover, N. C.

W. A. Watt, ’01, of Thomasville, Ga., has expressed the hope,In a letter regards, D. R. LaFar, R. Bitzer, R.
J. Knight, and R. M. Brice. Juniors: Allen, Sheppard, Adams, Davidson, Gentry, and Crawford. Sophomores: Faison, Harris, and DeArmon. This
committee will hold a meeting sometime in the near future to discuss a set of rules and regulations that will
apply to the Freshman Class in general. A few of the rules to be considered are: Freshmen are to wear
Fresh caps at all times, except when taking part in some form of athletics (golf excepted), or when wearing an
R. O. T. C. uniform; they shall be required to learn college yells and songs and to sit in a
body at athletic games (unless with guests); and they shall not make themselves conspicuous by giving yells for their class
or by painting their numerals about the campus or town. It is also understood that the age-old tradition of Freshman
meekness is not to be broken by any member of this particular class. The Vigilance Committee members have the right
to report to the Student Council any disorderly student, who will be dealt with as seen fit by that body.

YEAR OF WORTHWHILE WORK (Continued from page 1)
Cadet 2nd Lt., J. F. Clark, Cadet 1st Sergt., J. P. Burnhardt. Officers of Company “D”: Cadet Captain, P. D.
Miller. Cadet 1st Lt. J. C. Wool. Cadet 1st Lt. D. P. McGeachy. Cadet 2nd Lt. L. T. Horton. Cadet
2nd Lt., W. J. Cooper. Cadet 1st Sergt., W. A. Gamble.

DR. FRANK BROWN (Continued from page 1)
ick Hall, organist of the same church. The songs were collected in the mountains of western North Carolina, Professor Brown
securing a number of them on a searching expedition this past summer. Despite the threatening weather, a large, representative audience
heard Professor Brown in his first lecture to a Davidson assemblage. After the lecture had been finished the local chapter
of Sigma Upsilon gave a delightful reception at the S. A. E. hall, Dr. Brown and Mrs. Pharr being the
honor guests. Dr. Brown is a member of that fraternity having joined at another school, so the remarks he made
were of especial interest to the members. Mrs. Pharr rendered several vocal selections, which added much to the enjoyment of
the guests. Delicious refreshments were served, which completed the program of the meeting.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

A New NARROW COLLAR
Peabody & Co, Inc.
Troy, N.Y.

“pep.” support. thing missing. Are you interested in Old Davidson? If you are you can’t afford to let your interest
lag. Take The Davidsonian. If your interest has lagged you need to stir it up and begin to live again.
Take The Davidsonian! You can’t be a Davidson booster, as all loyal Alumni are unless you know what the old
college is doing. Are you “on your toes” when there is a big football game? Can you defend the name
and fame of the college when others are puffing their colleges? If you can you are already a subscriber. Renew
your subscription! It is The Davidsonian. Subscribe Today!

Times are hard; money is getting tight; all because a Davidson Democrat no longer heads our government. In view of
the above facts, The Davidsonian is an economic necessity to all Davidson men. I enclose my check for $2.00. I
need The Davidsonian and will let you hear more from me if I fail to get a single issue. Wishing
the Old College a most successful year, Yours very truly, T. C. STONE.

Have You Subscribed to the Davidsonian?
You need The Davidsonian’s news and The Davidsonian needs your support. Without the support of the Alumni there could be
no Davidsonian and what would Davidson be without The Davidsonian? If Not Why Not?

Another Has the Old Longing for His College Days to Come Back and Writes Thus:
Business Manager
Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.
My Dear Sir:
I enclose check for $10 for one year’s subscription to The Davidsonian, and the balance to help you pay out
of debt. You need not apologize for keeping the Alumni reminded of the needs of the Old College. We are
all interested, but forget her in the rush of our own personal affairs.

Gentlemen:
I. I wish to subscribe to The Davidsonian for one year. (Subscription check enclosed for $2.50).
II. Please enter my subscription for The Davidsonian for term 1921-22. I am a member of the Davidson Athletic Association.
(Subscription check enclosed for $2.00).

Signed
Address
(Note. Make all checks payable to The Davidsonian)

RUSH YOUR SUBSCRIPTION. FILL OUT THIS COUPON AND MAIL WITH YOUR CHECK TODAY.
