The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All applications to be in the hands of the Managing Editor before Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will
not be published.

E. CASS. --- Editor in Chief
CHA! - Managing Editor
ROS Flatt - Managing Editor
A. R. De Mille - Editor
J. W. MORET THEN - Alumni Editor
C. McCASKIL - Exchange Editor
ROP - Campus Editor
W. ROBERTS - Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL - Social Editor
J. M. GASTON - Literary Editor
R. R. McILW. - Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
King, A. D.
Ogden, D. H.
Lacy, T. A.
Ormond, A. C.
Long, C. G.
Phillips, J. W.
Mahood, D. L.
Sprunt, J.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Summers, A. C.
Morris, H. M.
Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C.
Lowrance, D. W.
Bailey, J. C.
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.
Cunningham, C. E.
Davidson, R. F.
Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager - C. J. MATTHEWS
Assistant Managers - E. A. NASH, J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager - C. H. LON
Assistant Manager - J. C. WOOL

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

It is gratifying to know that the student body as a whole does not approve of so much confusion during
the time that students should be at work. It is the duty of every man to see that the recent
resolution passed to this effect is kept to the letter.

Are you serving your college in such a way that if you left tomorrow, the whole school would feel the
loss of your influence and help in making Davidson better?

Recently we suggested that the student body would no doubt like Sunday afternoon band concerts. No reports having been heard
to the contrary, we believe that the students are in accord with such a plan. But to have regular campus
concerts there should be a comfortable band stand. Such a structure would not cost a great amount of money, and
this could easily be the Seniors’ solution of their class gift. This would be a donation that would not serve
just as an ornament, but one that would be really useful. Talk it up, men of ’21.

The report that Davidson is to have a rifle team to engage in intercollegiate matches only goes to show that
our R. O. T. C. is on the job.

In one or two of the recent basketball games the conduct of the students has not been all that could
be expected of Davidson men. Any college of real merit always plays the part of a gentleman to the visiting
team under all circumstances. Whether or not our opponents give grounds for hissing is to be disregarded. They are our
visitors on our courts, and this being the case we, if we are true gentlemen, will refrain from any hooting
and hissing remarks. Just because they do something that is not right offers no excuse for us to use the
same means in offsetting their unfair tactics. We believe in giving our team the right kind of support, but we
want to see it done by rooters, not hooters. Our basketball games have been too rough this year, but we
will dismiss this with just a word. It is due to the fact that a competent referee has been lacking.
Not every man can referee satisfactorily; it is almost an art in itself. For this reason it is imperative that
an efficient official be secured to handle the remainder of the games on the home floor.

FACULTY VISITING.

In every college the students necessarily miss the uplifting home influence. There is absolutely nothing on the campus that can
adequately take its place. The various organizations are helpful of course in training the students along intellectual and Christian lines,
but in all of these activities the masculine element rules. For the ordinary boy to cultivate that charm of manners
and courtesy characteristic of Southern gentlemen there must of necessity enter into his life the elevating influence of a mother.
The only place in our little college world wherein we may receive the benefit of such influence is in the
homes of the faculty. There can be no doubt of the sincere interest in the welfare of the students on
the part of the faculty members and their wives. They are always glad to open their doors to the boys
of Davidson College and deem it a privilege and a pleasure to have this opportunity of bringing to them just
a touch of home life. In years past the students always availed themselves of this opportunity, but with the growth
of the college this custom seems to be dying away. And the college boy is the loser! The faculty has
nothing to gain from this Sunday night visiting; it is the student who derives the benefit. Forget the idea that
to go to the home of a faculty member is “bootlicking.” No sensible fellow will ever accuse you of such
a purpose. Why not begin again this custom, for the students have everything to gain and nothing to lose.

Open Forum

EXAMINATIONS, WHEN?

There has been agitation for and against examinations coming in January instead of December, as has been the custom. Will
those who want exams in January look at some of the results. First, the demoralization of examinations when we have
started work after the Christmas holidays. The days which the Seniors will have off, who average above 85, the grade
which exempts them from term examinations, will do them little good at this time. Besides everyone knows that examinations are
in a way demoralizing. Why not have this demoralization at the same time as Christmas holidays? Second, who wants exams
hanging over the joys of Christmas holidays, and not know when he starts to work the first of January whether
or not he has successfully passed the fall term’s work. Third, have you thought how much extra work the absence
committee would have if it were not for exams just before Christmas? Think! What one of us would not like
to have our holidays of reward just before Christmas; have an exact result of the fall term’s work before we
start to work again; have the work run continuous from January to May without the eight days’ break for exams;
and who wants the absence regulations complicated more?

Boaz.

A STUDENT BUILT DORMITORY.

In these days of hard times building a dormitory seems to be a far-off possibility. The million-dollar campaign of last
year netted a great many pledges but very little cash. If someone could suggest a way for the students themselves
to build one without directly paying a cent he would be laughed at. But it is possible, nevertheless, and not
so highly improbable either. Suppose that the 150 students in the upper two classes were taking the R. O. T.
C. course. This would be at the rate of $15 a month for each student, which the government pays in
the advanced course, $2,250 a month, or $20,250 in a nine months’ year. In three years a dormitory as good
as any of the present ones could be built. The college gives equal credit for the R. O. T. C.
with other college courses. There are two hours of classes and three of drill. The class work is not any
more than other tickets.of equal credit, and what science on the Hill does not require at least three hours a
week? Then the uniform is free, which saves about a hundred dollars a year in clothes. We all talk about
love for old Davidson, but when it comes to practical talk about really helping her, what are you going to
do about it?

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.
By the Collegiate Press News Service.

Salem College, Feb. 12—There is a movement on foot at Salem now to exempt Seniors from examinations in any subject
in which an average of 80 percent has been made during the entire semester. This movement has been approved and
passed by the student council and is now in the hands of the faculty.

Salem College, Feb. 12—Never has there been such a grand resurrection of old clothes, “short-ends-of-wool,” odd shoes, false hair; in
fact, of everything apparently useless, as is now in progress at Salem College. The spark of enthusiasm that kindled this
unusual movement was the inspiring, enlightening talk on Sunday night by Miss Elizabeth Bailey, a graduate of the University of
Illinois. About a year ago, while visiting in western North Carolina, Miss Bailey became so interested in the great need
for education in that section of the State that she volunteered her services as a teacher in the graded school
at Crossnore, Avery County. She clearly pictured the illiterate, uncivilized state in which these mountain folk live and told us
of specific instances in the everyday lives of these “Sixteenth Century People” that seemed almost impossible in these modern times.
The one school at Crossnore was started eight years ago by Dr. Mary Martin Sloop, sister of Dr. Martin, president
of Davidson College. She and her husband are in charge of the school, assisted by ten graduate teachers whose salaries
are paid entirely from the sale of old clothes. The mountain girls and boys are ready, waiting, and anxious to
buy the old clothes we consider “out-of-style,” and feel just as much “bedecked” in our cast-aways as we would feel
in a gown “made by Lucille” or a tailor-made suit. This is a needed, noble work here in our own
State and well deserving of all the help we college boys and girls can give it. Come! Join Salem in
excavating your old clothes, pack them up and send them to Mrs. E. H. Sloop, superintendent, Crossnore, N.C. Boys! Don’t
think you're excluded—old cravats, shirts, shoes; in fact, anything is most acceptable.

University of North Carolina, Feb. 12—The Carolina Playmakers on Friday and Saturday nights, February 11th and 12th, presented three new
folk plays at the playhouse. These were “The Miser” and “The Old Man of Edenton,” by Paul Greene, of Lillington,
and “The Vamp,” by W. A. Royall, of Goldsboro. The auditorium was packed and the plays were well received by
the audiences at both performances. The first play presented was “The Miser,” a tragedy of domestic difficulties resulting from the
conflict of farm and mill. The second of the series of plays was “The Vamp,” a comedy skit dealing with
the heart havoc caused at a fraternity dance by a pretty baby vamp. “The Old Man of Edenton” was the
final part of the program. The play dealt with the great love of the old man for his leprous wife,
for whose sake he sacrificed his reputation and became a figure of ridicule and suspicion.

University of North Carolina, Feb. 12—Prof. Charles H. Grandgent, head of the Department of Romance Languages at Harvard University, has
just completed a special intensive seminar course in “Dante, His Period, and His Relation to Human Thought,” under the auspices
of the Committee on Degrees with Distinction of the University. This work was open only to certain advanced students in
the Division of Languages and Literatures who had done several weeks of intensive reading in preparation for the seminar. Professor
Grandgent is the fifth lecturer to come to the University to conduct special intensive courses in some highly specialized field.
While in Chapel Hill, Professor Grandgent spoke to the Philological Club, and also gave a public address in Gerrard Hall
on the subject of “Inspiration: Poetic and Divine.”

WIRELESS AT AUBURN.
Auburn has a modern wireless station in use every night now. The station is licensed by the government as an
Experimental Radio Station, embodying certain special privileges. The Auburn station has been heard for a distance of 2,500 miles, its
call is 5XA, and is working for and boosting Auburn all the time in its own wireless way—Orange and Blue.

ACH, THESE REFORMERS.
When the hootch is gone forever,
When to cigs we say good-bye—
When the girls no longer fool 'em—
Then—ye gods—please let me die!
—Old Gold and Black.

WDC Pipes
The thing with men. WDC Pipes men relax, fagged brains are relieved. The specially seasoned genuine French briar breaks in
sweet and mellow. It will not crack or burn through. The WDC triangle on the bowl is your guarantee. Ask
any dealer.
Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

Read the exchanges in the Library.

TULANE ERECTS WIRELESS.
The Tulane Hullabaloo is the latest member of the Intercollegiate News Bureau. Tulane now receives news reports from the colleges
and universities of the country every night by wireless. The station has been under construction for several days and is
near completion. The sending and receiving rooms are in the Y. M. C. A. building and the aerial has been
strung between the water tank and the Academic Dormitory.

His pledge: “You can put me down for $300; if I can’t wring that much out of the cold, cruel
world above a decent living within the next five years I might as well quit.”—College Topics.

GREENSBORO LOSES HIGH SCHOOL PRINCIPAL.
Mr. D. R. Price, principal of the Greensboro High School, has resigned his position to enter the field of religious
education. The school gave a farewell banquet in his honor and the faculty presented resolutions stating their appreciation of his
work, and wishing him success in his new field.

Examination is the absence of things hoped for and the substance of things forgotten.—“High Life.”

SEWANEE SELECTS COACH.
The Athletic Board of Control of Sewanee University has selected John P. Nicholson, Director of Athletics, and has outlined plans
for the improvement of athletics at the University of the South. Sewanee has in the past used the “hand-to-mouth” policy
in athletics, employing a coach for one team for one season. They have come to realize that some system in
the coaching was necessary, and that the coaching must be correlated under one head, and that this head must necessarily
be an “all the year man.” Nicholson has been coach at S. M. A. for the last two years, and
has turned out championship teams. He is a close student of football, an able track coach, and well acquainted with
baseball and basketball—The Sewanee Purple.

VIRGINIA RAISES MONEY FOR GYM.
The first night’s canvass for the $300,000 gym for the University of Virginia netted $44,398 in pledges. A law student
who will hang out his shingle in June, left the following remark in writing his pledge: “You can put me
down for $300; if I can’t wring that much out of the cold, cruel world above a decent living within
the next five years I might as well quit.”—College Topics.

FACULTY RULES ON DANCES AT UNIVERSITY.
The Administrative Council of the Faculty of the University of Virginia, at a recent meeting passed the following resolutions: “Be
it resolved by the Administrative Council, that no dance shall be given within the University grounds or within the neighborhood
of the University, by any student organization or any group of students or any individual student, until they or he
shall have secured a permit from the Committee on Public Celebrations having charge of such affairs."—College Topics.
