THE PAVINSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1921.

THE CODE OF A GOOD SPORT.

1. Thou shalt not quit.
2. Thou shalt not alibi.
3. Thou shalt not gloat over winning.
4. Thou shalt not be a rotten loser.
5. Thou shalt not take unfair advantage.
6. Thou shalt not ask odds thou art unwilling to give.
7. Thou shalt always be ready to give thine opponent the shade.
8. Thou shalt not underestimate an opponent, nor overestimate thyself.
9. Remember that the game is the thing, and that he who thinketh otherwise is a mucker and no true
sportsman.
10. Honor the game thou playest, for he who playeth the game straight and hard wins even when he loses.

—Hugh S. Fullerton, Sporting Editor of the New York “Evening Mail.”

S. O. S. Wathall sends out call for help. The ill-treated Sophomore has a charge of assault and battery against
a squad of Fresh.

Mental Activities.
Soph— I know what you drew.
Junior— A spade.
Soph— How do you know?
Junior— I saw you spit in your hand.

In the Future.
Plenty of subject matter was available for the 1990 Peanut Parcher Sunday night, when the lights on the campus went
out. The place of intensified conversation was between Georgia and Watts.

Sesame.
Bobbie Long with girl on Cupulo: “Can you see the Mammoth Cave from here?”
His Girl— “Yes, if you will open your mouth.”

Vamp.
The bouncing baby vamp Mason Field returned to the Hill Monday. The ladies in Virginia are crazy about him.

Charlie’s Eye Deal.
Whence the black eye, Bob?
Bobbie Long: “Oh, I went to a party last night and was struck by the beauty of the place.”

Hard Luck.
Crown Prince, our weather vane, nearly drowns as cloud passes over.

Not Many, We Hope.
Dora Ford: How many men do you think I will make unhappy when I marry?
Miss Lottie— It all depends on how many you marry.

New Central Hotel Visitors.
Johnnie Walker and the Haig brothers will give a concert in Charlotte soon. The student body is cordially invited to
attend.

Poor Eyes.
Slink Black is troubled with color blindness as he held hands with a nice black five minutes before he realized
his predicament.

Try This.
If no one else will stick to you— try a leech.

THE WOMAN GOD CHANGED HOLDS ATTENTION AT GYM
“The Woman God Changed,” featuring Seena Owen, was shown in the gym Saturday night as the weekly Y picture. The
picture, a cosmopolitan production, was far above the average movie, emphasizing both splendid acting and a real plot. The story
of how an evil woman can change by love to a true Christian was graphically shown.

This Saturday the Y will put on “The Affairs of Anatol,” one of the latest Paramount specials.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone 25-W CORNELIUS, N. C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves
We want your business and you need our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTSWallace Reid, third objective includes getting a list of REGISTERED PHARMACISTS. Fairbanks, Bill Hart, Bebe Daniels,
and others will graduate from Rowan county high schools next spring, sending each man a letter, and, if possible, sending
some member of the club to each school. This will take a good bit of work and to see that
this and the other objectives are met, the following officers were elected: L. A. Taylor, president; J. B. Hickson, Jr.,
vice-president; E. N. Peeler, secretary; S. R. Sloan, treasurer.

The club has 15 members this year, an increase of three over last year, and hopes to still further increase
the number next year.

Because of the added expense of this all-star picture, the admission will be 20 and 30 cents. Special credit is
due to Johnny Curry for his efforts in bringing this super-production here.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles. FRUITS, CANDIES, PICKLES, SANDWICHES, and everything.

A DOZEN DON’TS FOR DAILY DUTIES
Don't argue with the inevitable. The only argument available with an east wind is to put on your overcoat.
Don't waste your feelings. Feelings are too rich cream to be skimmed for nothing.
Don't be too patient. “Once in a while,” said Uncle Eben, “a man compliments himself on having patience when he’s
simply too lazy to make a kick.”
Don't pack up worries. You can get them anywhere as you go along.
Don't let your stream of life be a murmuring stream.
Don't use a pile driver to pin on a bow of ribbon.
Don't measure success by accumulation, for this measure is false.
Don't talk over “prevailing conditions.” Just make friends with your luck.
Don't fail to love your neighbors, yet pull not down your hedge.
Don't kill yourself with unnecessary work. There was once a New England woman whose epitaph read, “She hath done what
she couldn't.”
Don't leave the sky out of your landscape.

ROWAN COUNTY CLUB MAKES PLANS FOR DEFINITE WORK
The Rowan County Club held a very lively meeting Saturday night in 78 Chambers. After a feast on more substantial
things, a “feast of reason and flow of soul” followed. The club discussed plans for the coming year, including getting
a list of registered pharmacists and sending letters to graduates of county high schools.

ED MELLON’S is a college man’s store. Just because you look at a line of shirts or try on a
suit of clothes there, it’s no sign that you must buy it. They are anxious for you to know what
they have. “Most courteous and best-trained clothing salesmen in the Carolinas.” “On Trade Near Tryon.” —Adv.

Mr. Spencer Kerr, of Baltimore, spent the weekend on the hill. He was an aviator in Italy during the war.

LIFE INSURANCE -- A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple lines of insurance provides the equipment necessary for
real success in life insurance salesmanship. Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE --- GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL -- ONE MILLION DOLLARS
