-~.-Chemical Company, of Mount Holly, N.J.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

DAVIDSON IS PROUD OF DR. BEN R. LACY

Dr. B. R. Lacy, ‘06, was born in Raleigh, N.C., in August, 1886. His family is well known in North Carolina history, his father being state treasurer and his grandfather having been president of Davidson College from 1855-61. His father married Miss Mary Burwell, of a prominent family, and of this union there have been seven children, two sons and five daughters. The other son, T. A. Lacy, is a senior in college.

Dr. Lacy graduated from the Morson and Denson Preparatory School of Raleigh and in the fall of 1902 he entered Davidson College. He made a letter as end on the football team his last year and played on the basketball team several years and managed it in his Senior year. He was a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

After graduation in 1906 he taught school in Decatur, Ga., for two years. Then in September, 1908, he went as a Rhodes Scholar to England. He studied over there three years and then came back and in 1911 entered Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va. He studied there four years, taking the three-year course and then accepting the Hoge Fellowship for another year’s work. In the early summer of 1914 he took a trip to Palestine and came back through Europe, being caught in the rush of war preparation.

From 1914 to 1917 he was assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh, N.C. On July 13, 1917, he was commissioned chaplain with the rank of captain in the First North Carolina Field Artillery. Then on August 5, 1917, when this regiment was mustered into the Federal Army he was recommissioned by President Wilson. The command became the 113th Field Artillery of Thirtieth Division and trained at Camp Sevier from September 15, 1917, to March 19, 1918. It served overseas from May 26, 1918, to March 19, 1919. Captain Lacy served in the engagements at St. Mihiel and the Argonne, and in the defense of the Woerve and Toul sectors. He was cited for bravery in administering first aid while under shell fire. He was discharged April 15, 1919.

In May, 1919, he married Miss Emma White, daughter of the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Raleigh. In the same month at the commencement of Davidson College the degree of D.D. was conferred upon him. He accepted a call to the pastorate of the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., which pastorate he still holds. Dr. Lacy will be the principal speaker here on November 11th for the Armistice Day program.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

William Holt Oates, ’15, has become associated with Brevard Nixon, in offices 102 and 102½ Law building, Charlotte, N.C., for the general practice of law. Oates has had several years’ experience as a lawyer, having practiced in Jacksonville, Fla., for a number of years prior to the world war; and was judge advocate while in France with the American army. He is the son of Robert M. Oates, of Hendersonville, and a grandson of the late W. E. Holt, and the late David W. Oates. He is a class and fraternity mate of many of the younger members of the Charlotte bar, having completed courses both at Davidson and the University. While in college he played on both Davidson and Carolina football teams, and was a leader in all athletic sports. During the war he was lieutenant of Company A, 102nd Infantry, Twenty-Sixth Division, under General Edwards, and saw seven months’ active front line service in France prior to his capture at Chateau Thierry. In this decisive engagement he led his company two and one-half kilometers inside the German lines, was wounded, gassed, captured and reported as killed in action. Of the 250 men in his company only 35 survived Chateau Thierry.

W. T. Dunlap, ’19, and A. L. Foscue, ’20, are working for the Piedmont Electro-Chemical Company. Both of them were ardent students of chemistry while in college. In fact, Dunlap’s friends at one time decided to move his bed over to the laboratory. In addition to the knowledge gained here, Dunlap has specialized in chemistry for one year at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

J. M. Dunlap, ’21, brother of W. T. Dunlap, ’19, is teaching mathematics at the Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy of Port Gibson, Miss.

Ralph Kiser, ’21, is in the insurance business in his home, Charlotte, N.C.

C. K. Brown, ’21, the brainiest man who has been here in recent years, has found it inadvisable to follow his plan of working on a Ph.D. degree at the University of Virginia, but is now in business at his home, Cleveland, N.C.

J. M. Gilmer, ex-’22, narrowly escaped death in a train wreck some days ago. As it was his back was injured severely and it may affect him for life. The car in which he sat turned over twice. By a strange chance the boy sitting next to him was uninjured except for a few scratches.

G. D. Sample, ’20, is teaching Latin in the Greenville High School, of Greenville, N.C. He is principal of the school and is enjoying his work very much.

Rev. C. G. Lynch, ’12, of Charlotte, N.C., has moved to Wilmore, Ky.

Natt T. Wagner, ’04, is vice-president of the Mortgage Trust Company, of St. Louis, Mo.

Rev. R. M. Tarleton, ’14, of Charlottesville, Va., with Mrs. Tarleton and the children, visited relatives here last week.

H. A. Scott, '16, is now located in Geddings, Tex.

W. C. Frierson, ’18, is in Princeton Theological Seminary.

Rev. R. L. Whittington, '15, has recently transferred from Forest City, N.C., to Alexander City, Ala.

Classmates of C. E. Rankin, ’17, may address him at 531 W. 113th street, N.Y.

Rev. D. T. Caldwell, ’14, may be addressed at 1115 S. Fifth street, Wilmington, N.C.

J. R. Marton, Jr., is a Senior at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, West Somerville, Mass.

Dr. C. R. F. Beall, '18, is in public health service in Atlanta, Ga.

J. C. McCaskill, ’21; Houston White, ‘21, and Lump Richardson, ’14, were on the hill last week.

Bob Miles, '11, is acting as “Y” secretary at Auburn in addition to his regular pastoral work until a new secretary arrives.

J. S. Brown, '21, is studying medicine at Tulane University, New Orleans, La.

A. P. Ormond, ’21, is at Emory studying medicine, and Lavens Thomas, ’18, is there studying in the Theological Seminary.

W. J. Rudge, ex-’24, is at Trinity this year.

Davidson men at Carolina are: Alexander, ex-’22; Moore, ex-’22; Norman Shepherd, ex-’23, and T. B. Mitchell, ex-’20.

Wm. C. Oates, ’12, of Charlotte, has formed a partnership with Brevard Nixon in the law business. Mr. Oates will be remembered as an American soldier who was forced to spend a period in a German prison.

Alumni News.

Of the many Davidson alumni who were at the N.C. State game in Charlotte last Saturday, the following names were obtained by the reporter: P. B. Carwile, ’20; Coit M. Robinson, ’10; H. B. Craig, ’16; Joe Johnston, ’01; Harry Ruff, ’05; E. S. Currie, '12; W. C. Brice, ex-’20; J. C. McCaskill, ’21; Houston White, ’21; R. D., ’19, and F. P. Hall, ’20, of Belmont, N.C. From Gastonia there were: F. L. Smyre, ’00; H. A. Query, ’07; R. M. Jackson, ’12; A. T. Cashion, '17, and J. Leon Adams, ’02. Those present from Charlotte were: Dr. Y. W. Faison, '06; M. C. A. Carson, ’13; L. H. Wilkinson, '13; W. H. Neal, ’17; Collie McDonald, '15; G. E. Wilson, ’10, and E. Q. Pharr, '13. Others present were: H. B. Yates, ‘15, and Lump Richardson, '14, both of Greensboro; Maude Finley, ‘18, of Wilkesboro, N.C.Tom Fetzer, ’07, of New York City; I. P. Graham, '08, of Coolemee, N. C.; Dr. Sam Mitchner, ’09, of Raleigh, N. C.; Dr. Mary M. Sloop, ’97, and Dr. E. N. Sloop, ’97, both of Crossnore, N. C.; Jake McEwen, ’14; J. C. McMasters, ex-’20; C. K. Brown, ’21.

PROGRESS ON “QUIPS AND CRANKS” IS ENCOURAGING

When the Davidsonian reporter visited the different members of the Quips and Cranks staff, he found them all optimistic over the prospects for a good annual this year. Of course, it’s a little early to say just what’s what, but Rod Shaw, the Editor-in-Chief, stated that all the departments were getting well underway with their work. The personal histories are nearly all in and almost all the senior write-ups have been completed. D. L. Mahood, in charge of the literary department, stated that some of the class histories and poems had been written. He asks that anyone having any short poems of campus interest, turn them in to him as soon as possible. Johnnie Curry is hard at work on the “Wildcat Weekly” which is to be the fun department of the annual. He also requests that anyone having a good joke or story turn it in to him. This is a very important department of the annual and this year it is hoped to make it better than ever. McIlwaine reports that the art work is almost complete. There are a number of good artists in school this year and they have gotten up some clever drawings. Ray Doubles will have a top-notch Athletic department. The staff decided to dedicate this year’s annual to our mothers and especially our “College Mother,” Mrs. Robson. The faculty again this year approved the giving of three dollars by each student to help meet the expenses of publishing the annual. The engraving is to be done by the Bureau of Engraving, Minneapolis. With the cooperation of all, this year’s Quips and Cranks will be one of the best yet.

FORTY-EIGHT HONOR ROLL MEMBERS IN LOCAL SCHOOL

Forty-eight Davidson Graded School students secured coveted positions on the honor roll for the month of October. The list of those making an average of 90 or more on all subjects, as given out by Principal A. L. Currie, is as follows:

First Grade—Virginia Cathcart, John Douglas, Phifer Erwin, Dorothy Griffith, Frances Grey, Marguerite Hagar, James Small.
Second Grade—Sarah Johnston, Thelma Washam, Mary Withers, Walter Brown, James Withers.
Third Grade—Lula Fisher, Mildred Kusur, John B. Caldwell, Stamey Crews, Marsh Fisher.
Fourth Grade—Gertrude Abernathy, Meta Brown, Kathleen Hurd, Z. K. Justice, Jr., Christine Mooney, Edith Morrow, Alda Sloop, John Thompson.
Fifth Grade—Elizabeth Thompson, Burnette Overcash, Susie Jackson, Oscar Crews, Daisy Caldwell.
Sixth Grade—Adele Arbuckle, Alice Jane Fleagle, Jane Leighton Richards, Sarah Withers, James Caldwell, Greenlee Lilly.
Eighth Grade—William White, William Hall.
Ninth Grade—Howard Arbuckle, Robert Thompson, Sara Barnette, Letitia Currie.
Tenth Grade—Katherine Porter, Nina Holt White, Sophie Richards, Thomas Hamilton.
Eleventh Grade—Louta Mooney, Mary Torrence.

BASKETBALL CONTESTS HOLD ATTENTION OF ALL STUDENTS

(Continued from page 1)

The line-up follows:
Staley (13) — — — — — — — Elkins (2)
Beal (4) — — — — — — McConnell (3)
Forwards
Anderson (C) (8) — — — — McBride (2)
Center
Koenig (0) — — — — — — — Myers (4)
Morrison (2) — — — — — — — Charnley
Guards
Fouls: Morrison 3 out of 6; McConnell 3 out of 4.

Championship Contest Grows More and More Interesting.

Senior-Junior Game.

Wednesday night the Senior quintet, last year’s champions, lost their second game of the season to the tune of 36 to 16 in a vain attempt to down the promising Junior crew. The game was fast and hard-fought throughout but especially so during the second half. Time and time again Referee Chalmers was forced to call fouls on both sides. When the first half ended the score stood 12 to 10 in favor of the Juniors. The Seniors came back with a rush in the second half and tied the score but from then on they were hopelessly outclassed. As soon as a Senior forward would attempt to shoot, a Junior guard would be on him and invariably would break up his shot. In all, it was the Junior’s night and cheer leader Crawford kept up the pep of the Junior supporters throughout the entire game. It would be hard to name the individual stars of the evening but for the Juniors, Mauze outshone his teammates. He was a wizard at finding the basket, his long shots and uncanny accuracy in shooting fouls counting for a goodly number of the Junior points. Houghton also played a good game. For the Seniors, Ormond, Doubles, and Price showed up well. The line-up and score was:

Juniors (36) Seniors (16)
Houghton (10) — — — — Ormond (2)
Brake (4) — — — — Doubles (10)
Mauze (12) — — — — Giese
Freeman (0) — — — — Covington (8)
Price (2)
Neal (2)
Substitutes: Seniors, Tufts for Freeman.
Fouls shot: Juniors, Mauze 6 out of 8. Seniors, Ormond 0 out of 4.
Referee: Chalmers.

Senior-Fresh Game.

The Senior five defeated the Freshmen in a hard-fought game Friday night by the score of 41 to 29. The upperclassmen went into the fray determined to even up the count, as the Fresh defeated them in their previous encounter by one point. The victory put the Seniors again in the lead for class basketball honors, but the three other class teams are still fighting hard, and the present standing may be upset before long. However, the Seniors at present look like the best bet for carrying away the coveted honor. The first half was fast and hard-fought, but the guarding was close, and not until the last few minutes were the Seniors able to forge ahead by several baskets. But from the opening of the last half to the final whistle, Captain Ormond’s men played a classy brand of ball which kept the Freshmen puzzled and soon the upperclassmen had piled up enough points to put them out of danger. Here the Scrubs were put in, the Freshmen took on new life and the encounter almost developed into a “battle royal,” but the time was too short for them to do serious damage. Ormond was the chief point-getter of the frolic, paving the way with six field goals, besides playing a classy floor game. Neal's shooting was nothing short of spectacular. For the Freshmen, Beall tossed seven through the hoop from the field with Staley as next high man.

Line-up and summary:
Position. Seniors (41) Freshmen (29)
Ormond (13) Staley (9)
Doubles (6) — — — Beall (14)
Cornelson (2) — — — Anderson (6)
Price (8) — — — Koenig (0)
Neal (12) — — — Morrison (0)
Field goals: Beall (7), Ormond (6), Neal (6), Staley (4), Price (4), Doubles (3), Anderson (3), Cornelson (1).
Fouls: Ormond one out of five. Staley one out of six. Anderson 0 out of three.
Scorer: Bill Mauze.

Discrimination. Hays requests criticism of his management of the P. O. Department. Burleson got it without asking.—Greenville Piedmont.

The war was over in 1918, but evidently no one thought to notify the Poles and the retailers—Brooklyn Eagle.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves
We want your business and you need our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
CANDIES PICKLES SANDWICHES “an’ everything”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

For the first year
“After Every Meal”
Referee: McConnell.