THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 8, 1921.

Mrs. C. R. Harding leaves the last of this week for New York, accompanying her daughter, Mrs. Brenizer, of Charlotte.

Kodak Finishing
EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE
PRICES
4c 5c 6c 10c
Vest Pocket 2 1-433 1-4 2 1-224 12 41-426 12
Developing any size roll
We use glossy paper unless otherwise requested.
Cash with order or work will be mailed C. O. D.
Send front negative for sample print.
Charlotte Photo Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

TAYLOR
Quality Equipment
TENNIS. GOLF. BASEBALL. TRACK. CAMP.
ALEX TAYLOR & CO., Inc.
26 E. 42nd St., New York

The Macamac Company
Agents
The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY COLLEGE JEWELERS
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.

WATCHES, CLOCKS, and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

BASEBALL
GET INTO IT WITH SPALDING EQUIPMENT
BATS, BALLS, ETC.
A.G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Have these old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JANE MARTIN, Manager

Christian MINISTERIAL AND VOLUNTEER BANDS HEAR SEMINARY DEPUTATION
Columbia Men Give Interesting Talks at Joint Meeting of Volunteer and Ministerial Bands.

Last Sunday afternoon a most interesting and helpful joint meeting of the Ministerial and Volunteer Bands was held, at which
four of the students from Columbia Seminary spoke. After having prayers and the Scripture reading, the quartette rendered a beautiful
selection, “In the Garden.”

The first speaker was Sam Hay, of Davidson's class of 1915. Choosing as his text Matt. 9:37-38, “The harvest truly
is plenteous, but the laborers are few: Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth
laborers into his harvest.” He cited as two instances of the ripe harvest the results of two deputations sent out
by Columbia Seminary. The first was that of work done at Camp Jackson, at which 18 out of the 30
men present at one meeting gave their hearts to Christ; the second was the organizing of a Volunteer Band of
40 girls at Chicora College, as a result of the prayers and labors of Columbia students. He also spoke of
the 1,100 pastorless churches in the South. His talk was closed with a strong appeal to work and pray that
the Lord might send forth laborers into His harvest.

The central theme of the talk of Mr. Barber, one of P.C.'s former star athletes, was our assurance of an
eternal heavenly home. We have the promise, “Let not your hearts be troubled. In my Father’s house are many mansions...”
while those who are out of Christ have no such promise. It behooves us therefore to seek to win them
to Christ.

Frank Yandle, a former Davidson student and graduate of the Moody Bible Institute, using as his text 2 Tim. 2,
gave the following two rules which should govern every Christian worker: the right motive should govern every service. Consider the
widow’s mite. Second, our services should be rendered with clean hands. He concluded his talk by giving the famous poem,
“The House by the Side of the Road.”

The last speaker, D. C. Stogner, ‘20, gave a brief account of the religious work that is being done by
the Columbia Seminary boys in cotton mills, jails, hospitals, and similar places where help is especially needed.

DOUG. FAIRBANKS IN “DOWN TO EARTH” FURNISHES THRILLS

“Down to Earth” featuring Doug Fairbanks took Davidson by storm Saturday night. Doug takes charge of a sanatorium and his
fresh air cure meets with amazing results. On the outbreak of a fake small-pox scare, arranged by Doug, they slip
on board his private yacht and set sail, presumably for New York. All of the invalids with their various ailments
are cast upon what they suppose is a desert island but which in reality is one situated very near a
thriving town. Socially speaking, Doug is estranged by the castaways but with the shortage of food they soon come around.
Within a month the secret is discovered but the invalids, thanks to the outdoor life and the exercise prescribed by
Doug, have regained their health. A delightful love story is skillfully woven into the plot which as usual ends to
the complete satisfaction of all parties concerned.

During the intermission, the quartette from the Columbia Theological Seminary sang several popular selections which were enjoyed immensely by all.

COLUMBIA SEMINARY DEPUTATION (Continued from page 1)

for their help in the Bible classes, mission study classes, and for the splendid music furnished by the quartet. All
feel that their visit has been a great blessing to the campus, and that many life consecrations to Christian service
will be the result of their coming.

Miss Lelia Kristler, of Mitchell College, spent the weekend with Miss Barnes.

First, Activities

The attendance at the mission Sunday Schools was unusually good last Sunday, the grand total in attendance being 58 points
higher than that of the week before:
Pupils Teachers
Cornelius .................. 99 6
Shearer .................... 90 8
Brawley’s ................. 53 5
Caldwell ................... 53 5
Oak Grove ............... 19 6
Cowan’s School .......... 6 1
Mill ......................... 42 4
Total ....................... 361 35

Several of the college Bible classes Sunday morning were conducted by the seminary men, and their talks were a great
inspiration to the fellows who were fortunate enough to meet with them.

WITH THE OTHER COLLEGES.

Chapel Hill—The Spring German Wednesday night concluded the dances for Easter and the consensus of opinion is universal that the
dances were the best ever experienced here and that the girls were one vast harmonious effect. The dances were given
in Bynum Gymnasium as usual and the Weidemeyer orchestra ofHuntington, W. Va., did the playing. The Carolina Playmakers leave on
a State tour immediately after the presentation of the next series, to occur late in April. “When Witches Ride” by
Miss Elizabeth Lay, “The Miser” by Paul Greene, and “In Dixon’s Kitchen” by Wilbur Stout are to be presented. The
budding actors will be absent from May 9 to 14, and in their tour, Greensboro, Winston, Durham, Raleigh, and New
Bern will be visited and also probably Goldsboro.

The portrait of James C. Dobbins, Secretary of the Navy in Pierce's cabinet, which hangs in the Phi Assembly Hall,
is one of the most valuable paintings in the state. The Navy department made an attempt to secure the picture
some years ago, in fact offered a large sum for the picture, but the authorities refused to sell.

The Building Committee of the Board of Trustees met recently and formulated plans for the building program to begin in
the early summer. The Steele dormitory and the new laundry will be ready for use by the opening of the
fall term, and the new structures will be well under way by that time.

Dave Roberts Receives Honorary Membership in Golden Quill Order.

The Wearers of the Golden Quill have recently requested the Davidsonian staff to bestow upon Dave Roberts membership in the
Golden Quill Order. This honor comes to Roberts as a recognition of the services he has rendered as originator of
the organization. The Quill Wearers at their last meeting appointed A. D. King to consider the matter of a suitable
emblem. At present, King has before him a number of suggestions which have been offered.

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Letitia Curry broke her arm on Tuesday evening of the 29th. She was immediately taken to the Statesville Sanatorium
to receive medical care and attention.

Misses Margaret McLaughlin and Margaret Bell, students of Agnes Scott, spent the weekend with Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle.

Miss Nina Holt White entertained Saturday evening in honor of visiting girls. Miss Mary Young spent the weekend in Morganton.
Mrs. W. R. Grey is in Hendersonville visiting Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Grey, former residents of Davidson. Miss Mary M.
Davis, of Pisgah Forest, joined Miss Sarah Lingle’s house party Saturday.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson gave a party last Friday evening at the home of Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Jackson, in
honor of Miss McLaughlin and Miss Bell, from Agnes Scott, guests of Mrs. Arbuckle, and the Misses Parker, guests of
Miss Sarah Lingle during the Easter holidays. The rooms were prettily decorated with ferns and flowers of the season. Five
small tables were attractively arranged in the living room, which proved to be the center of attraction. A different game
was played at each table. Progress was the motto of the evening, and after having tried their hands at one
game for a while, the guests were required to progress to the next table. After all had played Hearts, etc.
to their heart's content, activities ceased, and Miss McLaughlin sang a number of popular songs, rendering them in a most
attractive manner. Following the vocal selections of the evening, a delicious ice cream course was served by Miss Finlayson, assisted
by Miss Lingle, and the Misses Parker.

Mrs. and Miss Etlinwood will arrive soon for a month's visit to friends in town.

Mrs. W. D. Vinson, Miss Maude Vinson, and Mrs. Baskerville motored to Salisbury last week on a visit to Mrs.
Depuy, the latter's sister.

Is That So?

A fair informant of ours says that worry is the least of her worries.

Irate Customer—“I just bought a battery and I can’t get a current out of it.”
Salesman—“Did you have it charged?”
Customer—“No, I paid cash for it.”—Ex.

Little boy—“Can I go through this gate?” politely inquired a very stout woman.
“I guess so, madam—a load of hay went through a while ago.”—Ex.

Large oaks from little acorns grow,
Large aches from little toe corns grow.

Columbia University is now the largest educational institution in the world, having a registration of 35,000 students.

To call a girl a lemon,
Is to make her awful sore,
But to treat her like a lemon,
Makes her love you all the more.—Ex.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
Kodak prints represent the highest in photographic art. No extra charge for high finish.

GOODHART-TOMPKINS CO., DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Our Specialty: Prescriptions Compounded by Registered Pharmacists

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music, and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President
H. M. VICTOR, Vice-President
O. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

HOME OFFICE--GREENSBORO, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL -- NONE TOO LARGE
WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE

THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

LIFE INSURANCE--
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line insurance provides the equipment necessary to real
success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number.”
Write to the SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY

CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS
