Y. M. C. A. BOARD OF CONTROL PLANS TO SECURE GOOD MOVIES

The movie show on Saturday night has become so important in the campus life of the students at Davidson, that it would be greatly missed if discontinued. Some good pictures were shown in the fall and the management promises even better ones this spring. All the pictures signed for are new 1921 releases. The list includes some super-specials and it is planned to have a two-reel comedy with these. The cost of these new pictures is of course more than that of the old worn-out ones. To meet this extra expense it was thought best to charge the students 10 cents admission. When the big pictures are shown the admission will be a little more. Another added feature is the new method of making announcements. Slides have been purchased and by means of these the announcements will be thrown on the screen. Also, the carpenters are working on new benches to accommodate the crowds.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

MANY STUDENTS MAKE USE OF Y. M. C. A. SOCIAL CENTER

The Y. M. C. A. has reopened the social center as its first step in the new year’s work. And it’s some social center, too! The first rooms on the right as you enter the “Y” building are now equipped as a combination reading and recreation center. Not only home-like furnishings and big easy chairs are to be found there, but a player-piano and a Victrola as well as games and magazines. A carrom board has been ordered to supplement the games already at hand. Beside the exchange publications, four periodicals will appear on the social center tables: the Saturday Evening Post, Colliers Weekly, Judge, and the American. Three of these magazines come out weekly, so there'll always be a new story awaiting the men at the “Y.” Pennants decorate the walls of the room, and brightly colored hangings drape the front window, while a blossoming narcissus on the center table adds the finishing touch to its attractiveness. Already the students are taking advantage of the pleasures offered by the “Y” center, and it is hoped all will use it frequently.

We Want 66 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

UNIQUE SERVICE HELD BY CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS

Plan of “White Triangle Meeting” Used—Subject of “Self-Control” Discussed.

The Christian Endeavor meeting on Sunday afternoon was led by the efficiency committee of the society. There were three leaders and three classes of participation on the topic, “Self-control,” had been arranged for: answers to questions, comments on selections given, and talks on subjects assigned. The songs were in groups of three, only the third verse of each being used, and the prayers were in groups of three. In the section of the meeting given to general participation by the members, a large equilateral triangle was placed before the society and as each Endeavorer took part he or she hung a small white triangle on the large one. When all of the small triangles had been placed, the motto of the meeting, “Be ye temperate in all things,” was spelled out by the triangles. The committee leadership of this meeting was the first of a series of meetings to be led every second Sunday by the various committees of the society.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

PLANS TAKING SHAPE FOR STATE VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE

More Than 150 Delegates Expected to Assemble at Trinity on Feb. 25.

Plans are taking shape for the Student Volunteer Convention at Trinity College, February 25-27 which promises to make it the best ever held in this state. There will be a hundred and fifty delegates, boys and girls, from all over the state. The boys will room in the college dormitories, but the girls will be entertained in the homes of the townspeople. All the delegates will take their meals together in the college dining hall, either before or after the regular college meal hours. The management's idea is that each delegation will assemble itself at its own private table and partake of its nourishment in a very sedate and dignified manner, but—O boy! Rev. S. M. Erickson, one of our foremost missionaries to Japan will make one of the addresses. Plans are also underway to have one meeting at which foreign students studying in this country will make appeals for their own lands. There will be no regular convention session Sunday morning, but the delegates will attend the church services in town, at which missionaries of that denomination will probably speak. A convention handbook, something similar to the one used last year is being prepared and will be presented to each delegate. Everything possible is being done for the comfort of the delegates. Expenses will probably be only about ten dollars.

We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

BIBLE CLASS TO BE TAUGHT BY POPULAR PROFESSOR

Beginning with next Sunday, Dr. Fraser Hood will teach the Men's Bible Class at the Sunday School. This class was fairly well attended during...the fall and, under the excellent leadership of Dr. Hood, it should be very popular this spring. Football men will remember that Dr. Hood conducted the regular Church service the Sunday before college opened in the fall, so his ability along this line is unquestioned. Sunday School meets every Sunday afternoon at 3:30. All the men are expected.

We Want 5 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND STUDENTS ADMITTED TO BAR

Out of 85 applicants to recently appear before the State Board of Law Examiners, only 42 left qualified to practice law. Among those 42 successful law aspirants were 17 men from the T. C. Williams School of Law, of the University of Richmond.—Richmond Collegian.

STUDENTS URGED TO SHOW MORE INTEREST IN BIBLE CLASSES

Let’s have everybody out for the mission study classes next Sunday! The meetings start at 10 o'clock, and last for half an hour. The subject for the next lesson is “What Manner of Man Is This?” It is a study of comparative religions. Be up and ready when that 10 o’clock bell rings. Don't make the leader on your floor rout you out of bed. The showing for last Sunday was very poor. Half the floors had practically no class at all. These are the statistics for last Sunday:

Floor Teacher No. Present
1 N. W. Ch.—C. K. Brown 3
2 N. W. Ch.—C. N. Morrison 5
3 N. W. Ch.—E. H. Tufts 8
1 S. W. Ch.—D. R. Freeman 8
2 S. W. Ch.—J. R. McKeldin 10
3 S. W. Ch.—J. E. Cassell 0
1 Ga.—C. M. McCaskill 3
2 Ga.—A. D. King 7
3 Ga.—J. R. Walker 3
1 W.—J. P. Taylor 4
2 W.—R. F. Davidson 9
3 W.—D. W. Roberts 8
1 and 2 E. R.—F. V. Long 10
3 E. R.—J. P. Price 5
1 and 2 W. R.—J. M. Richards 5
3 W. R.—C. G. Long 5
Louisiana—J. K. Price 0
Library—P. D. Miller 3
N. Barracks—J. C. McCaskill 9
S. Barracks—R. Bitzer 9

Honor class, first and second floor East R. Total, 104.

We Want 80 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS RE-OPEN.

Because of the bad weather last Sunday, some of the students were unable to go out to the rural Sunday Schools. Considering the bad weather, the attendance was excellent at some of the schools, though, as is shown by the following report:

Brawley, no report.
Caldwell, no report.
Cornelius, 61 present; 2 teachers.
Mill, 54 present; 6 teachers.
Oak Grove, no report.
Shearer, 10 present; 4 teachers.

We Want 8 Students Next Year. Begin Now.

LAST MONTH’S NEWS.

(Little items of interest which happened in December, but were too late for the last issue of The Davidsonian.)

The Literary Societies had their annual debate. The Eus represented by Miller, Bitzer, and Mitchell were overwhelmed by the brainwork and mouthwork of the three Phi men, Roberts and the Long brothers, and had to taste defeat. The Orator’s medals were captured by C. G. Long and P. D. Miller.

Dr. H. P. Verner, well-known explorer and discoverer, gave an extremely interesting account of his work to the students. He told of narrow escapes from baboons and of hair-raising experiences with the wild animals of Africa. Dr. Verner has made many notable discoveries in the botanical world.

Two of the class of ‘24 tried to display their Nimrodic prowess but were rather unsuccessful and being unable to find any game, they cut off their nose to spite their face by shooting themselves in the feet. Jack Hunter and M. H. Sutton both had firearms to accidentally go off in their possession and wound their lower extremities.

The congregation at the Presbyterian Church were especially fortunate in having the opportunity of hearing Paul Kanamori, the noted Japanese evangelist. He told of the work that he has been doing and of the great ambition of his life, to personally, either through the spoken or written word, present the cause of Christ to every one of the sixty million of Japan.

The Volunteer Band was busy in its deputation work. Dave Roberts and Bitzer went to Gastonia and spoke in two of the churches there, while Weeks and Price spoke at the Second Presbyterian Church in Mooresville.

On December 15th, under the leadership of Major Hearn, two hundred and seventy-five new I. D. R.’s were written. It is understood that the War Department will take the best of these and compile new Drill Regulations from them.

Shoes
Puttees
Raincoats
Mackinaws
Blankets
Riding Breeches
Wool Shirts
Socks

FRIDAY 21st Watts
SATURDAY 22d Watts

New and Reclaimed Army Goods of All Descriptions

COOPER-ROGERS

POPULAR PRICES

EVER-STICK PATCHING STICK and STAY STUCK

“If you want it off, do not put it on”

Specially prepared for Inner Tubes, Rubber Boots, Coats and Hats---anything made of rubber. Ask your dealer for Ever-Stick. If he can’t supply, send 50c in stamps and I will send you a package by mail postpaid.

J. S. WINGO
Wholesale Accessories
Spartanburg, S. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING For College Students Is Our Specialty

Lightning-like rapidity of service makes distance no disadvantage. Our prints represent the highest in photographic art. No extra charge for glossy finish.

GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co., Atlanta, Georgia

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA

Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories