2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

Twelve Seniors Deliver Fine Set of Orations
Oratory Flows Freely as Seniors Hold Audiences Spellbound.

Senior Speaking was revived with the old-time pep last Friday night at 8:00 o’clock when Dr. Shewmake led six brave Seniors on the stage in Shearer Hall. After Dr. Arbuckle had opened with prayer, the eloquence of Bitzer, Taylor, and Knight, combined with the flowing oratory of Miller, Summers, and Clark, held the audience spellbound.

QUEENS COLLEGE PRESIDENT TO SPEAK AT “Y” SUNDAY

Dr. A. M. Fraser, president of Queens College, will speak at the local “Y” services next Sunday at 6:15. Dr. Fraser came to Queens last August and his progressive spirit has already made its impression on both Queens and the city of Charlotte.

While at Belhaven College, in Mississippi, Dr. Fraser made a reputation throughout the South as a speaker and Christian worker. Since coming to Charlotte he has been much in demand, having addressed the Rotary Clubs, several churches, and other gatherings; also he has entertained several picnic parties.

Ralston Bitzer, in pleading for renewed interest in literary societies, showed the various ways in which a student is educated by being an active member of either one of the literary societies. In closing his speech he called attention to the fact that the most prominent Davidson alumni had been active members of the literary societies.

Davidsonian To Publish a Woodrow Wilson Edition
World-famed Son of Davidson to be Honored With Special Edition Just Before Christmas.

The staff is planning a special issue of the Davidsonian to come out December 20th. This will be known as The Woodrow Wilson issue. The entire front page of the paper will be devoted to this, the most illustrious of our Alumni.

Dr. Thornton Whaling, who was associated with Mr. Wilson in their student days at Davidson, has been asked to write a sketch of Mr. Wilson’s student days, as seen by one of his classmates, and follow this up with a running resume of the great man’s career.

KAPPA ALPHA FRATERNITY AWARDED BELK TROPHY CUP

In 1911 Mr. W. H. Belk, of Charlotte, gave to the fraternities on the hill a handsome trophy cup, to be awarded each year to that fraternity whose class average for the entire undergraduate membership of the chapter is the highest for the year. The successful fraternity retains the cup until won in a succeeding year by another, and the first fraternity winning it ten years retains the cup permanently. Thus far Kappa Sigma has won it three years; Beta Theta Pi, four years; Sigma Alpha Epsilon, one year; and Kappa Alpha three years. The award goes to Kappa Alpha this year, completing her three years. The averages for 1920-21 are as follows:

Final Football Contest Lost to Furman Team
Special Trainload of Students See Wildcats Lose 28-0.

The ‘One Bad Day’ that Davidson football teams seem doomed to have each year, struck with all its devastating force in the Turkey Day Classic with Furman and the Hurricane swept away a 28-0 victory. Davidson had hoped to win, but failed. Many are the explanations given for that failure, but they may all be summed up in the statement: The team had gone stale.

The inevitable letdown after the soul-rending ties with Richmond, State, and Carolina was sure to come. As a result, the line charged a fraction of a second too late, the backs were slow in starting, and the team was generally off form. The Furman team, on the other hand, was in the pink of condition and played a fast, snappy game from start to finish.

Dr. Fraser’s experience with young people and particularly with students makes him a desirable visitor at Davidson, and a worthwhile meeting is expected. It is hoped that the hall will be crowded to the limit.

“The Soul of America,” J. F. Clark made plain to us, is not in the things people see but in the deeper recesses of the hearts of each and every one of us. As the real powers of Congress are in the committee rooms and as the society girl is not the genuine woman she may later be, so is the Soul of America found only in what is ordinarily hidden and may only reveal itself in crises.

The Anglo-Saxon is, according to J. I. Knight, “the Standard Bearer of Civilization,” as it is a race refined from a mixture of all races. The qualities of courage, piety, and love of liberty have especially fitted this race to be the leading race of the world.

Just at this time there was an intermission, when J. R. Earnest with a guitar, and R. A. Groves with a violin, furnished excellent music.

As the Chattahoochee River flows out from the hills of Georgia, so has a steady stream of men, the very framework of the nation, flowed out from the hills. P. D. Miller, in speaking on this subject quoted Lanier’s “Song of the Chattahoochee,” and showed that the qualities possessed by the river were also the possessions of the men who came out of the hills.

Mule Curry and P. D. Miller, the battery for Coon Hollow, and the best colored operator on earth, whose part was taken by B. L. Team, piped a clog dance in the second act. The best part of the musical numbers were the selections of the Wildcat Quartette, which was called back four times.

The third act depicted the marriage formalities of a Roman household in burlesque. The part of the Roman parent was filled by Bill Bogart, and Bob McLeod acted the coy, bending daughter. The tall and stately husband’s part was filled by W. G. Raker whose overbearing disposition was evident in his “Fie! Fie! on you!”

The scene of the fourth act was laid in the wireless room of the best colored operator on earth whose part was taken by B. L. Team. W. J. Cooper, who officiated as parson in this act, united Malinda and ‘Speedy Jagnes, the operator who thought he was sinking at sea, over the wireless. The most interesting part of this act were the messages to celebrities on the campus from their friends on the sinking vessel.

The last act of the program consisted of a pantomime, The Shepherd in the Distance. The story told of the love of the daughter of the Vizier for a shepherd and how, after many difficulties, the shepherd and his princess eloped. The action of the play was governed by the musical director of the act who tapped the drum at regular intervals. O Davidson by the entire cast constituted the finale.

A great deal of praise is merited by those who contributed their time and efforts in the staging of the minstrel. Professor Erwin, who has devoted his time and efforts in developing it, is to be congratulated on the result he has attained. E. V. A. Nash is due hearty thanks for his financial management and general supervision.

Saturday Morning.

The last section of Senior speeches came off Saturday morning at 10:30. All the speeches showed preparation and good thought on the part of the men who delivered them.

C. G. Brown, using for his subject “As a Man Thinketh,” presented a fine appeal for clean thinking and (Continued on page 8)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS
All together, sons of Davidson, PUSH!Electrical effects and W. K. McCain, who as stage manager did much in arranging the settings. S. C. Fain of members of the faculty and their orchestra rendered music which was thrillingly tempting; to the many youthful devotees of the terpsichorean art. B. S. Hanrahan are due thanks for constructing the tables used in the first act, and credit is due to M. C. Dew and his assistants, W. J. Cooper and Allan Hurd, for the management of the lighting effects. Especial thanks are due to Mrs. E. J. Erwin and Mrs. Bogart for the costumes used throughout the show.

Kappa Alpha 83.29, Pi Kappa Alpha 81.09, Beta Theta Pi 80.86, Kappa Sigma 79.15, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 76.87.

Mitchell College Girls Present Fine Pageant Missionary Appeal “In the Name of the Cross,” Excellent.

Last Sunday at the “Y” service, an interesting and impressive missionary pageant, “In the Name of the Cross,” was given by 13 young ladies from Mitchell College. The regular Sunday evening church service united with the Y. M. C. A. in the “Y” services, and special meetings. Raised curtains revealed a bare stage with only a white altar and cross in the center. Christianity, represented by Miss Lois Owens, who was clothed in a draped white robe and wore an ivy wreath, entered and challenged America to go and teach all nations, and promised her aid. America immediately accepted the challenge and promised to give any needy country whatever aid she could.

Various heathen nations entered one at a time and pleaded for America to send them the Bread of Life. South America, bound in Catholicism, asked that she be sent Christian workers. Mohammedan Turkey called for missionaries in order that she might learn to practice the golden rule instead of bloodshed. Far away India, where as a result of the teachings of Hinduism there are twenty-seven million disgraced widows, pleaded that Christ, her only hope, be sent to her. Korea asked that America, who thinks more of dogs than Korea does of women, send her the Gospel. China urged that she be sent missionaries. Our neighbor Mexico pleaded that she also be taught about the true God. Then one of our own land, a mountain girl, made an earnest appeal that the mountain work of America be not neglected. Japan called for teachers in order that she might learn to worship God instead of idols of wood and stone. The dark continent, Africa, asked that she be lighted up by the love of Jesus.

America, realizing that wealth, fame, power, nor anything except Christianity will suffice the need of these countries, made an urgent appeal for volunteers to proclaim Christ throughout the world. A Christian student entered and volunteered herself and challenged all American youth to seriously consider work on the foreign field. Christ whispers, “I gave my life for thee, what hast thou done for me?” Probably the most impressive part of the program was the singing of appropriate songs throughout the pageant from behind the stage by Miss Elsie Coffey. Miss Marion Moore, who had a U.S. flag draped over her right shoulder and under her left arm and represented America, acted her part well and was one of the chief factors in the success of the pageant. Those representing the different countries were dressed in fitting costumes. They were: South America, Miss Margaret Holebrooks; Turkey, Miss Fay Thompson; India, Miss (Continued on page 6).

Contrary to the general impression, Furman did not “hopelessly outclass and sweep the Wildcats off their feet.” In fact, Davidson showed a marked superiority over Furman in her ground-gaining powers. The Wildcats clawed their way over the length of the gridiron three and a half times, 354 yards to be exact, while the Hurricane could only lug the swineskin 293 paces. However, the Greenville crew used all but 25 yards in its touchdown-producing machine, while a cog in the Little Electric Machine was missing and the entire Presbyterian yardage was wasted.

Schenck was the outstanding spark producer of the Wildcats. He again played the dual role of quarter and end, filling both positions most acceptably. He was a main factor in all the Davidson attacks, and on several occasions seemed touchdown-bound, once taking the ball to the 4-yard line. Bethea also played a great game, his off-tackle drives bringing back his wonder work in last year's game. Erwin contributed the longest single gain of the day when he bagged a 40-yard pass. La Farr, Sorrells, and Faison were demons in the line, often pulling down the Baptist back behind the line. McManaway, Rhame, McLeod, and Bradley, as expected, played the best games for Furman.

First Quarter.

Following an exchange of punts on which Furman gained ten yards, McManaway, Rhame, and Poteat carried the ball 65 yards for a touchdown. The same fake that was successfully employed on South Carolina carried the ball over. Davidson received the kickoff and (Continued on page 3).

WHAT’S DOING.

Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi and Eu Societies.
Friday—8:00 p.m., John B. Ratto, Impersonator, at Shearer Hall.
Saturday—7:15 p.m., Justine Johnston, in “Hearts to Let.”
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1:00 p.m., C. E. Training class.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p.m., Dr. Hoots Bible Class.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Monday—7:00 p.m., Bible Class Leaders’ Meeting.
7:15 p.m., Junior Phi Society.
Tuesday—7:00 p.m., Junior Eu Society.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Bible Classes.