THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

of others, and this the writer had seemed to fail to do. Chemical—you’re right in some points, but wrong in
others. We admire you for your frankness, we condemn you for your narrow view, your destructive rather than constructive criticism,
but most of all for your lack of true sportsmanship by hitting a man when he is down, Physical.

D. Fall in Line.

To the Editor of The Davidsonian:

When I first read in a New York paper of the burning of Chambers building, I was stunned. I felt,
as many Davidson alumni felt, that the heart of the old campus had been burned out. Chambers was more than
a great, imposing edifice; she was a symbol of the noble traditions, memories, achievements, ideals and hopes of Davidson. To
lose her is to lose a friend no amount of money can restore.

Upon second thought, I felt sure that Davidson would meet this disaster with characteristic indomitable spirit. Fire cannot destroy the
soul of a great man or the soul of a great college. Today has come the issue of the Davidsonian
telling of the superb spirit in which students and faculty met the situation. Your courage and faith is thrilling and
I know that Davidson men everywhere are united with you in a deeper loyalty than ever to the college and
in the determination to build a greater and better Davidson. You can count on the men of 1915, (and alumni
of other years will say the same thing), to do all in our power to help.

When I told a certain Southern friend here at Yale about the fire and about the student assembly while the
fire was yet burning to begin planning for a new Chambers, he said, “That’s Davidson! You would expect nothing else
from the college which deserves our general loyalty and devotion.”

Frank W. Price, ’15.

D.

STETSON SHOES

D.

WILSON MADE THE CAMPUS AT PRINCETON DEMOCRATIC

Elevated the Position of Men Working Way Through College.

Woodrow Wilson, during his term as president of Princeton University, was responsible for many improvements in the equipment and organization
of the school, but probably his greatest work, and the one which has made the most lasting impression on the
environment and life of the students, was the manner in which he broke down the aristocratic spirit which dominated the
Princeton campus.

When Wilson was called to office as president of Princeton he found it truly a “rich man’s college” and he
set himself to change this unfortunate condition and to destroy the barriers which surrounded the wealthy cliques, so that a
poor man might be able to meet his classmates on an equal footing. It was said in those days that
if a fellow was not in the best of financial condition it was far better for him to go elsewhere
to school. The stiff fight that Wilson put up against such a spiritIn college is one of the finest things
in his entire career and is one which will stand forever in the minds of all Princeton alumni. Today, according
to statistics gathered by Secretary V. Lansing Collins, 27 percent of the Freshman class are working part or all of
their way through college, and an almost equal number of the newcomers are being aided materially by the university itself.
From these few facts, it may be easily seen that Wilson wrought a fundamental change in the life on the
Princeton campus and one that will stand the test of time.

The way you are carrying on through such difficulties and planning bravely for the future will inspire all Davidson graduates.
We will respond to your confidence in us and will rally to rebuild Chambers, a New Chambers which shall continue
the finest traditions of the past, for which many may be truly thankful. A striking analogy may be drawn between
Princeton, as it is today, and Davidson. In both colleges, there exists a true democratic spirit, absolutely essential to the
welfare and harmony of the students, and making possible a greater future for all.

A good assortment of GIFTS OF JEWELRY ARE GIFTS THAT LAST: WATCHES, RINGS, BROOCHES, and COLLEGE SEAL JEWELRY. Give an
Eversharp Pencil or Parker Fountain Pen as a Gift.

HEADQUARTERS FOR CHRISTMAS CARDS
W. S. HENDERSON, DAVIDSON, N. C.

It Pays to Trade at Ivey's Department Store
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brown Insurance & Realty Co.
T. B. BROWN, Pres.
JNO. D. BROWN, Sec’t.
FRANK R. BROWN, Treas.-Mgr.
Real Estate, Real Estate Loans, Insurance

ONE BRAND - ONE QUALITY - ONE SIZE PACKAGE
All our skill, facilities, and lifelong knowledge of the finest tobaccos are concentrated on this one cigarette—CAMEL. Into this ONE
BRAND, we put the utmost quality. Nothing is too good for Camels. They are as good as it’s possible to
make a cigarette. Camel QUALITY is always maintained at the same high, exclusive standard. You can always depend on the
same mellow-mild refreshing smoothness—the taste and rich flavor of choicest tobaccos—and entire freedom from cigaretty aftertaste.

And remember this! Camels come in one size package only—20 cigarettes—just the right size to make the greatest saving in
production and packing. This saving goes straight into Camel Quality. That’s one reason why you can get Camel Quality at
so moderate a price. Here’s another. We put no useless frills on the Camel package. No “extra wrappers!” Nothing just
for show! Such things do not improve the smoke any more than premiums or coupons. And their added cost must
go onto the price or come out of the quality. One thing, and only one, is responsible for Camels' great
and growing popularity.
