THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1921.

THE RALEIGH

Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3860
221 W. Trade St.

Established 1873
A. S. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Brady Printing Co.
The College Printers
If you want good printing and quick service, Brady is the man to do it
STATESVILLE, N. C.

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers.
Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN.
Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up.
Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H. C. Larzelere, Prop.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
Double Guarantee, Free Tuning
Write for Catalog, Prices and Terms
“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO”
And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO
Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged
Tuning, Repairing and Moving
JOHN W. POST & CO.
Established Warerooms
209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.
Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News, Va.

The Peanut Parcher goes on record as being opposed to any distinctive attire for the Seniors. Any person with only
mediocre intelligence can tell a SENIOR even if he wears no badge of office. Look at his bearing, his dignity.
See the strut of confidence and the look of pride. Need a derby and cane? No, he needs chloroform.

It takes a snow to show up the children on the campus. We believe that if snow was meant to
be snow-balls it would come that way.

Take Your Base!
“Strike one, and out!”
“That’s not baseball!”
“Naw—that’s matches.”

It is reported on good authority that our friend, McRichards, caught a certain freshman and administered cutaneous stimulation to the
point of pain. Mac seems to be getting rather hard in his old age.

More Appropriate.
Phi. Literary Society stages an extemporaneous debate on, “Resolved, that Davidson should have a chair of music.” That may be
all right, but we rather favor a stool.

“You have the drop on me,” soliloquized the egg on the floor after taking in the situation, “I’m broke.”

Son, They Didn’t Count ’Em.
J. M. Barr (getting home for Christmas holidays): “Wilkinson won’t be here until tomorrow. He had to take a ‘Bug’
examination.”
Barr’s little brother: “Did they find many on him?”

Yea, Verily.
First Junior: “I’m just naturally busted! I’ve been living on faith for the last month.”
Second Junior: “I’m worse off than that. Nothing but hope has kept me going.”
Fresh: “Huh! I’ve got you all skinned. I haven’t worried at all, and I’m still living high on charity.”

He’s a Bird!
Henry Patterson tells the English V class that he intends to write his short story about civil war times. “A
young Confederate officer,” said Henry, “is to be the heroine.”

And Fido Went Hungry.
Freeman gnawed all the meat off his “bone of contention” in the debate last Thursday.

Parliamentary.
Red Smith: “Mr. President!”
Mr. President: “Mr. Smith.”
Red Smith: “May I approach the treasurer?”
Mr. President: “The gentleman may—if the motive is proper.”

Suicide.
Parks: “You all know what politics is.”

Mosquito Breeches From Elephant Pants.
We sent a sheet to the laundry and got a handkerchief back. The shrinker

This Week’s Bone.
McKeithen: “It seems to be coldin the hall. "Is the furnace broken again?" Pres. Long: "Do I hear a motion
to that effect?"

There's No. R. F. D. The Chamberites seem to purchase Ray-action. A chemist of skill, investigate! Answer this quiz of
mine, I think I know what Carbonate, But where did Iodine? —The Peanut Parcher.

O. Mr. Peanut Parcher, In answer to your call, I'll say that I saw Iodine With Ethyl Alcohol. —Ray.

Eggsactly!

J. C. B.: "Why is a bleeding finger like an absence card?" P. D. Q.: "Caused by a cut."

John Choate says that there are two great interests of college boys—mail and female.

Casting Aspersions. Chas. Tuller to Bascom Sorrells: "When you play that trombone you look like the missing link playing the
lost chord."

Two noble representatives of the Soph class have made a discovery of great geological importance, namely: that all types and
species of hard rocks are to be found in Mooresville—at night.

Joe McCaskill in the military science class passes out the information that battering rams figured in the fall of Jericho.

Horace Mitchell, to a Georgia Peach: "Dearest, I'm not trying to deceive you. I’m not two-faced." The Peach: "I know
you are not, for if you were you'd surely wear the other occasionally."

We are not socialists, but we do believe in a redistribution of wealth—we are broke.

Listen! Fresh Carr defines a kiss as "An undefinable thing, but a glorious feeling, a compact transaction, a superb taste,
an unforgettable event, a little thing involving much." We guess Carr knows—we don’t.

Accidents Will Happen. Sam: "The laundry left just one button on my shirt." Bill: "It didn’t intend to."

Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

White’s Meat Market BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED Phone 25-W CORNELIUS, N.C.

New Central Hotel In the center of the theatre and shopping district Thoroughly modern and up-to-date Where Courtesy and Service
is the motto Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte Frank Gregeon, Mgr.

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and
efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive
Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

Make weather like this seem like a balmy springtime. They are comfortable and attractive, and they cost less money than
an Overcoat. - - Carolina Sporting Goods Company EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOORS MAN 5 West Fourth Street (Just Off Tryon)
Phone 3248

OUR NEW HOME Designed and built with definite ideas of what the home of a printing plant should be. Seven
thousand square feet of floor space, for the convenience and facilities necessary to planning and producing printing that gets results.
When in Charlotte we shall be glad to have you stop in to inspect our new home, or to confer
on printing problems that may confront you.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD PUB. CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. C. J. MATTHEWS, Agent

PROGRAM Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Feb. 3rd, 4th and 5th

OVERTURE Academy Orchestra Direction Charles H. Shonland

PATHE NEWS Educational Comedy

CLETA AND DOROTHY McKENZIE The Personality Girls

FRANK BROWNE Knight of the Hammers

WALTER LEROY, EMILY LYTTON and COMPANY In "NEIGHBORS"

BIG CITY FOUR The Sweetest Singing Quartette in Vaudeville. Web, Rover, Lambert and Scanlon

PETET TROUPE Risley and Tumbling Experts
