Junior Speaking — THE DAVIDSONIAN A BETTER DAVIDSON ADDRESSES FOR Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 11, 1921.

Junior Speaking Celebrated on Campus by Unprecedented Round of Activities
Largest Number of Visitors in Years Present for Oratorical Exercises of Junior Class—Dramatic Club and Musical Organizations Add Much to Pleasure of the Occasion—General Reception Held in Gymnasium Saturday Night

Fair weather, fair maidens, well-delivered speeches, musical and athletic attractions, and a splendid reception occupied the students and a large number of visitors from last Friday through Sunday, and marked a new day in Junior Speaking on Wildcat Hill. Great credit is due the officers and members of the Junior Class for the splendid way in which they arranged and carried out the interesting plans.

Oratorical Exercises.
At 7:30 o’clock Friday night and again at 10 o'clock Saturday morning eight aspiring Juniors spoke in Shearer Hall for the Junior Orator's medal. All the other members of the Junior class had been eliminated at the semi-finals held several weeks ago. According to the ancient custom, the exercises Friday night and Saturday morning were opened with prayer. Dr. J. W. Moore offered the invocation Friday night and Dr. Wool of Charlotte on Saturday morning. At the Friday night hour, a pleasing musical program served to enliven the monotony, but for some reason, the orchestra was absent from the morning exercises. As yet, the committee of judges has made no announcement as to the medal and “rep” winners. The committee has promised that a complete list of the awards will be available for the next issue of the “Davidsonian."

The consensus of opinion has it that J.-C. Bailey of the Eumenean and J. H. McKeithen of the Philanthropic made the best speeches Saturday night. Bailey spoke on “Home Ownership” and McKeithen on “Fallen Idols.” E. B. McGukin of the Eumenean, speaking on “The Greatest Man in the World,” contrary to all expectations, did not speak on Woodrow Wilson but on “he who serves.” The judges would not be amiss if they favored him rather than one of the men mentioned in the first instance. It appears that G. N. Neel of the Philanthropic and J. P. Price of the Eumenean made the best speeches Saturday morning. Neel spoke on “The Inevitable Choice,” while Price entertained with “The Wildkittens: a Type.”

In addition to those already mentioned, the following men spoke: from the Philanthropic Literary Society, J. I. Knight on “The South as a Man Maker,” W. K. McCain tickled the risibilities with “From Rib to Ribbon,” W. W. McLeod thoughtfully discussed “The South and the Black Veil,” L. A. Taylor on “From the Chin Up,” J. C. Wool envisioned “America and the World,” and L. A. Wooten discussed “Visual Education.” From the Eumenean Literary Society, R. Bitzer on “Optimism,” C. E. Cunningham preached a familiar “Philosophy of Life,” P. D. Miller eulogized “Woodrow Wilson: the Idea,” and J. M. Richards arraigned us as “A Nation of Fools.”

GLEE CLUB CONCERT.
One of the most enjoyable features of Junior Speaking was the concert given by the Davidson College Glee Club last Saturday afternoon. The program consisted of 13 numbers and was given in a pleasing manner. Such popular selections as “Tell Me, Little Gypsy,” “Broadway Rose,” “Dry as a Camel’s Tonsils,” “Margie” and “Our Castle of Dreams,” made a big hit with the audience. The “Wildcat” Jazz Orchestra turned loose some jazzy harmony, full of pep which caused even the oldest persons present to sit up and pay attention. Sugarfoot Gaffney and Lightnin’ Rod Jones next appeared on the scene of action and held the attention of each one present from the beginning to the end of their dialogue.

Blaze in Phi Hall Causes Excitement
Prompt Work of Students Saves Ancient Building From Destruction
Mooresville Fire Truck Brings Relief

Real “Fire” was on the campus last Friday morning. The conflagration did considerable damage to the roof and eaves of the Philanthropic Literary Society Hall. It is supposed to have started from a defective flue in the French classroom. The whole student body, together with the faculty, turned out to give their aid. Ladders and fire-hose seemed to be non-existent on the campus when they were most needed. Some of the boys succeeded in finding two ladders, however, and with these and a few fire extinguishers, they began to fight the increasing flames. Later, a bucket brigade was formed until a fire hose was rushed up from one of the mills. Dr. Lingle proved to be the “coolest” man in the crowd. While watching the fire eat its way towards his classroom, he announced to the crowd that his French II class would take the next four pages. The three “fire-chiefs” were Mr. Jackson, Dr. Arbuckle, and Dr. J. M. McConnell. They proved to be experts on giving directions on how to use a fire-extinguisher. A record run was made by the Mooresville fire department truck, but when they arrived, the students had already extinguished the flames.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF INTERCOLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION APPOINTED
President J. Eris Cogswell of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association has appointed the following as the executive committee, of which the First Vice-President of the Association, Miss Marie Edgerton, of the Salemite, is the chairman, by virtue of the provision in the Constitution that the First Vice-President shall be chairman of the executive committee. Daniel L. Grant, Editor of the Tar Heel, Claude F. Moser, Editor of Trinity Chronicle, Miss Myrtle Williamson, Editor Queens Blues, Miss Evelyn B. Brider, Editor Meredith Acorn, and Miss Sadie Jenkins, Editor of Greensboro College Magazine.

During the intermission, “Jap” Cumming entertained the audience by doing several difficult stunts and also showed his power of jiu-jitsu in knocking out his stage helper. The program was concluded by the singing of “O Davidson,” by the entire club. The concert was the best that has been given this year which showed the results of thorough and careful training.

PLAY BY DRAMATIC CLUB.
The Dramatic Club of Davidson College made its debut at Junior Speaking (Continued on page 8)

Miley, Captain and Twirler of 1921 Nine Is Now Playing His Fourth Season for Davidson
Great things are being looked forward to from this season’s Wildcat nine, under the leadership of Captain Bill Miley. This lad has tossed the old pill on Red and Black teams for three years, and will round out a quartet in this his Senior year, if all goes well. “Old Smiling Apple Plug” played in the outfield his Fresh year, taking a turn or two in the box also. His Soph year found him on the regular twirling staff, but a bad arm which developed in mid-season kept him out of the fray for the remaining games. Last year, however, found the “Old War Horse” in prime condition and heaving the apple, with plenty of stuff on it. His most notable feat was in the affair against Elon, when he let the sluggers fromThe Christian college down without a hit in nine innings. Bill handles himself with plenty of form and puts out a rare brand of pitching ability. He plays a steady and cool game and should make the Wildcats a capable leader.

SEVEN DAVIDSONIAN REPORTERS AWARDED THE GOLDEN QUILL

Seven members of the Reporters’ Club were presented with the coveted golden quill last Saturday night during the intermission of the plays. Dr. Currie presented the quills with a short speech, explaining the nature and purpose of the Reporters’ Club and the difficulties confronting one who would express himself with the pen alone. He also explained that the golden quill is given each year at Junior Speaking to certain members of the Reporters’ Club who have done the best work for the Davidsonian that year, the number receiving the honor each year not to exceed seven. Those receiving the quill were A. M. Mitchell, W. J. Cooper, A. D. King, A. C. Ormond, J. C. Bailey, R. Bitzer, and W. A. Gamble. These seven men were asked to come up in front of the rostrum and each was given a golden quill with the wish that they have the same success in the future that they have already had.

Basketball Team Ends Successful Season by Winning Two Games Out of Three Last Week

Wofford and Winston “Y” Succumb to Wildcats’ Attack—Guilford Combination Proves Too Strong On Their Home Court—Crawford and L. Schenck Do Great Work for Red and Black

Guilford Game. On the Guilford College floor last Wednesday night the Quaker quintet nosed out the hard-fighting Wildcat team for a 27-25 victory. It was the last game of the season for Guilford and they played one of the best games of the year.

Davidson Comes Third in Race for State Basketball Honors

Bill Roberts and John Schenck Lead in Scoring — Several Games Lost by Close Margins

With the final blow of the referee's whistle in the Winston “Y" game last Friday night, the curtain was rung down on this year’s basketball season. For eight solid weeks of grueling practice and playing, the Wildcat quint has once more placed the fair name of Davidson among the worthies, and has set up a record which does justice to its Alma Mater. Saturday night, Dr. J. M. Douglas awarded the six players and managers with that coveted emblem of service, commonly recognized as the “D.” Those to receive this honor were L. B. Schenck, captain, D**; B. W. Romefelt, D*; W. W. Roberts, D*; J. Schenck, D; C. R. Crawford, D; C. M. Davis, D; S. W. Miley, manager's D. The team played 16 games during the season, 11 of which were intercollegiate. Five of these 11 were won, by scores with plenty to spare. Of the six lost, three were by scores of three points and less, while the largest score rolled up against the team was that of University of Va., 47 to 23 victory. The summary of the season looks as follows:

Durham “Y” 41, Davidson 16.
Charlotte “Y" 32, Davidson 24.
Guilford 14, Davidson 51.
N. C. State 13, Davidson 45.
Un. of Va. 47, Davidson 23.
Elks Club 37, Davidson 23.
Washington and Lee 31, Davidson 28.
Elon 25, Davidson 38.
Un. of Fla. 26, Davidson 45.
Elon 30, Davidson 19.
N. C. State 29, Davidson 28.
Un. of N. C. 37, Davidson 20.
Charlotte “Y” 11, Davidson 55.
Guilford 27, Davidson 25.
Wofford 34, Davidson 35.
Winston “Y” 25, Davidson 34.

Opponents 459; Davidson 509.

Bill Roberts, crack forward on the quint, led the point scorers with a total of 241 tallies. Bill is undoubtedly one of the best forwards in the state and will probably land an all-star berth. Johnnie Schenck, with 104 points to his credit, is second on the list. His chief contribution to the team was in his lightning-like floor work. Johnnie is an able man on his feet and is a terror to the opposing offense. Pat Crawford, husky guard, was next in line with 80 to his credit. This lad was a bulwark of strength on the defense, and his ability to get up the floor for an open shot was remarkable. Romeo Romefelt at center contributed so. He played a consistent and aggressive game and contributed greatly on the defensive. Suffering an injury (Continued on page 2)

It was a close contest throughout, first one team taking the lead and then the other. This advantage changed hands nine times during the conflict. Toward the end, until the last few seconds, the Quakers had a fair lead, but the Presbyterians came back and were caging the spheroid steadily until but one scant goal separated the totals of the two teams. The final whistle cut short their desperate efforts and left the score 27-26 for Guilford. The outstanding work for the Wildcats was done by Roberts and Schenck, while the Frazier brothers performed in brilliant fashion for the Quaker outfit. The line-up:

Davidson Position Guilford
J. Schenck .......... W. Frazier R. F.
Roberts .............. Lindley L. F.
Davis ................ Newlin C.
Crawford .......... Cox R. G.
L. Schenck ........ J. S. Frazier L. G.

Referee: Stuart. Timekeeper: Stockard.

Wofford Game. In a rather slow and listless game, the Wildcats triumphed over the Woffordites by one lone point on last Thursday night. The Red and Black machine overcame a handicap of six points in the last half and during the closing minutes of the game the “pep” which the spectators had failed to deliver during the first part of the game burst forth, each team being exhorted by its supporters to put the game on ice by shooting a field goal. However, the game passed into history with the score 35 to 34 in favor of the Presbyterians. The followers of John Wesley started the scoring when Hecklin tossed the sphere through the hoop. When the whistle blew for the end of the first period the scoreboard showed that Wofford led 17 to 11. During the rest period between the halves the old “Wild- (Continued on page 2)

WHAT, WHEN, AND WHERE

Thursday—6:45 p.m. Phi Literary Society.
Friday—9:00 p.m., Reporters Club Meeting.
Saturday—12:10 p.m., First Series of Otis Lectures, by Dr. W. W. Moore, Shearer Hall.
3:45 p.m., Baseball, Varsity vs. Scrubs.
6:45 p.m., Movies.
9:00 p.m., Eu Literary Society.
Sunday—10:00, Bible Study Classes.
11:00 a.m. Sermon by Dr. W. W. Moore.
3:30 p.m., Davidson College Sunday School class at Presbyterian Church.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
7:30 p.m., Last series of lectures by Dr. Moore.

HATS OFF TO THE JUNIOR CLASS