THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 11

Open Forum — BIGGER OR BETTER?

No one would attempt to minimize the fine efforts of those who have been working for “a bigger and a better Davidson,” efforts which have already begun to bear fruit. However, there are many still on the campus who feel with the alumnus who wrote in last week's Forum, that the “better” side should be given more stress than the “bigger” who feel that already Davidson is getting too large in numbers to maintain the old Davidson usefulness. There is a fable told of a frog that tried to grow as big as an ox and burst because such a growth was unnatural.

Three vital points of improvement are making an insistent call for the attention of all concerned in the development of the College. First, is a crying need for a better plant. Half a hundred students are living under tar paper roofs, in rooms with only paper walls to shut out the various sounds, these abodes veritable fire boxes. These same men have to go some hundred yards to get to the showers. A number of students are having to live “out in town,” off the campus. The infirmary is a frame building whereas this one building of all others should be of brick. The “Y” building is not adequate either for our own use as to movies, lounging room, showers, and so on, or for the entertainment of visiting teams and the friends of the large number of students who do not belong to the fraternities. The bleachers at the athletic field have no protection overhead and no rendezvous for the players. Even as they are they need repairs and are too small to hold the crowds. The tennis courts are like bowls, bordered with grass that has crept inside the double court lines, and even at that there are only two courts, enough for each student to play about two afternoons during the college year. Men come here from high schools which have laboratories better equipped and more closely co-ordinated with the classroom work than they find here. The teaching force is too small and the classes, therefore, too large.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

E. CASSELL - Editor-in-Chief
M. RICHARDS - Managing Editor
ORMOND - Assistant Managing Editor
PRICE - Assignment Editor
R. DOUBLES - Athletic Editor
McKEITHEN - Alumni Editor
McCASKILL - Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
M.C. A. Editor
ROBERTS - Social Editor
M. R. REPS - Literary Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Bailey, J. C. King, A. D. Ogden, D. H.
Bitzer, R. Long, C. Ormond, C.
Cooper, W. J. Mahood, D. L. Phillips, J. W.
Cunningham, C. E. Mauze, G. W. Sprunt, J.
Davidson, R. F. Mitchell, A. M. Summers, A. C.
Gamble, W. A. Morris, H. M. Tuller, C. D.
Jones, J. R. Lowrance, D. W. Wool, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS - Business Manager
E. A. NASH - Assistant Manager
J. S. CURRY - Assistant Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LONG - Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL - Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A companion is but another self.”

On the face of things the first trip of our basketball team was not a success, but we must remember that some of the strongest teams in the South were played. Everybody is proud of a fighting team, and that is just what ours is. The spirit shown in the close contest with Washington and Lee evidences this fact.

The report of the committee in charge of the Famine Relief Fund is discouraging to say the least. This is a question that a thinking student cannot lightly disregard, and we would like to urge that our men reconsider this matter in a serious manner. If proper thought is given this question there is no doubt that Davidson College would subscribe the amount asked. It is not our policy to dictate, but we would like to suggest that it is imperative that each man give his share of two dollars. It may entail a sacrifice, yet the greater the sacrifice the greater will be that inner satisfaction of helping your fellowmen. Shall we allow Davidson to be a quitter in the great movement now being backed to the limit by other American institutions?

As long as time lasts there is one date in the history of America that should always be remembered. This is the 22nd of February, the birthday of the great Father of our country. Ever since the death of our illustrious Washington this day has been commemorated by suitable exercises throughout our nation. At such a time as this in the welfare of our nation, when there are so many misapprehensions as to the future, a day spent in discussion of those high ideals that characterized Washington might easily bring a clear understanding of the solution of the many problems now facing our country. For this reason then can not Davidson set aside February 22nd, for a day of patriotic exercises consisting of a band concert, speeches, etc. Is the student body in agreement with such a plan?

Other colleges are preparing to communicate with each other by wireless daily in order that interchange of college news may be quickly made. We have a wireless operator in our college. Who will take the initiative in making an effort to secure finances to set up a wireless plant?at Davidson. THE NEW PRESS ASSOCIATION 1921. have to be supplied in church and chapel to seat the present overflow. Second, a closer examination of prospective students would be well worth while. We might profitably send out a man or men not only to secure students but to investigate the moral, athletic, and academic record of each and every man and avoid the kind that will never make real Davidson men. We would like to see all our friends have an opportunity to come under the Davidson influence, of course, but Davidson is not a reformatory and no boy or parent should be allowed to try to make it one. Third, the creation of a stronger sentiment for proper study conditions, adequate preparation for classes, and for protection of the Freshmen from the triers who take up their time and prevent their getting started right in their studies is needed. This sentiment should be promoted by the student body government. Regulations should be made and enforced with a kind but unslacking zeal. In spite of these needs we love old Davidson. That love makes us jealous of her future: whatever promises to make her future brighter we want to see accomplished; whatever will weaken her we want to see avoided. We want to see efficiency always kept ahead of extension. Let all the friends of the College work for those things which will make Davidson bigger in influence by making it better in equipment—in the improvements planned and the others needed—and in students and in student life. Davidson's reputation has not been made by thousands of mediocre men gone out from her doors, but by a comparatively small number of real Davidson men. May we never depart from our determination to keep Davidson's standards as high as those cherished for her by that splendid body of our forefathers, stalwart in body, in mind, who first gave Davidson to America and the world to help them in their onward march toward efficiency and noble living. Excelsior.

“Prices may be coming down but they have all got their parachutes with them.”

Read the exchanges in the Library. Wake Forest students have organized a Booster’s Club, whose purpose is to kick the knocker and boost the booster. About fifty men under the leadership of Dr. Poteat as an alumnus, met a few days ago and frankly and openly discussed some of the existing evils relative to college spirit, and proposed remedies. The re-establishment of freshmen rules was heartily advocated as a means of abolishing hazing; the promotion of respect and co-operation with the student government was pledged; utter contempt and disregard for the habitual knocker was adopted as a means of putting an end to such individual's obnoxious practices; a better fellowship as expressed by friendly greetings when students meet on the campus was urged; athletics received its full share of consideration; in general, boosting was adopted as the policy of all Wake Forest men. The policy was then presented to the students and they adopted it whole heartedly. There is now at Wake Forest a booster’s club, the membership of which includes every man on the Hill. —Old Gold and Black.

Furman University is inaugurating a student government to take the place of the old supervision method of the faculty. The Blue Stocking of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina advises to please let them go on. Remember that a student government is an Honor System. The things that this can stand for are unlimited, according to what the conception of what honor is—The Blue Stocking.

The Columbia University baseball team will play the Waseda University team of Tokyo, Japan, in New York next spring.—Utah Chronicle.

A need long felt in college circles throughout this State has been filled. The North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association is now a living organization, and has entered upon an era of service which all hope will be successful in every way. Too much credit cannot be given Editor Daniel L. Grant of The Tar Heel and his colleagues who have made such a thing possible. Every college in the State is indebted to these men for taking the initiative in such a movement. Their courtesy in inviting the delegates to meet at Chapel Hill should be greatly appreciated, and our publication takes this opportunity to thank them in the name of the Association. The interest manifested in forming this Association was gratifying, and the inspiration derived from the meeting must inevitably be reflected in the improved standard of the various papers and magazines. It is the long needed tonic to really lift all the college publications up from a kind of disinterested plane on which this special phase of college activity has been resting. A critical period, however, is facing this new and untried organization. To be the source of power and influence that it should it must be backed to the limit by every college in the State. Without this co-operation the Association is doomed. After such a bright beginning, we urge that every editor concerned give his time and talents in establishing the Association on a firm basis in order that this end may be achieved. The publications of Davidson College gladly enlist their all in this cause.

Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow’s peace of mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than true if it’s a WDC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multiplied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack. Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your way to pipe-happiness.

DON’T take a fellow’s pipe. Take some other possession. WM. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS