THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 16, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

FOOTBALL SEASON SUMMARY AND INDIVIDUAL WRITE-UPS

Wildcat Warriors Deserve Much Credit for Splendid Work.

The Season.

When the referee’s whistle ended the Furman game, it rang down the curtain on Davidson’s twenty-fourth football season. Some of
those twenty-four have been more successful than the one just closed; teams of other years have outshone that of this
season. But the followers of the Red and Black have just cause for pride in their 1921 gridiron eleven.

Adding up the results, we find that the Wildcats have won three, tied three, and lost four games this season.
On the face of it, it appears to be only mediocre. But when we remember that all the games tied
were with teams considered to be stronger than ours and that from a moral standpoint they may be classed as
victories, the matter is seen in a new light. And one of the defeats will go down in history as
the eighth wonder of the world.

F. M. Simmons, leading football authority in the state, in picking his all-state team awards three places to Davidson men.
Captain LaFar, Moore, and Schenck were the men honored, while S. M. Davis, McFadden, Shepherd, and Faison were also in
the running. To Coaches Grey and Black too much credit cannot be given. They have worked tirelessly and deserve a
large portion of praise due the team for their great work. The season was hardly over before Coach Grey began
laying plans for next year. Nine letter men are expected to report for practice next fall and several of this
year’s subs seem ripe for a step into higher circles.

Capt. D. R. LaFar
Guard, D**

By his wonderful work this season Doc has proven himself to be the right kind of a leader. Playing his
third year of varsity ball he has shown himself to be the peer of all the guards in the state.
Down in the muck of the line where there is no duty but that of duty well done, he has
been the rallying point for the entire team. He was on the sidelines in three games, with a bad knee,
but he made a lasting impression on every team he played against. Doc has not announced his plans for next
year but every Davidson man hopes fervently that he will return next year and help carry the Red and Black
to higher heights before he hangs up his moleskins and cleated shoes for the last time.

Captain-elect J. S. Moore
Halfback, D**

“That 130-pound, elusive, slippery, whirling, ‘laggy’ little fellow of Hugh Grey’s Wildcats who to tackle by one leg is not
enough to stop.” Spratt is the most brilliant of the first magnitude stars in the local pigskin firmament. He is
the longest individual ground gainer on the team and in addition, backs up the line with the best of them.
His sensational flying tackles bring back the days when Tiny Graham cavorted around on Sprunt Field. While his specialty was
ticking off yardage around the flanks, Spratt could hit the line with the force of a six-inch gun and dodge
his way through a broken field like a Killinger. His work in the Wake Forest and Carolina games alone was
enough to win him undying glory. To look at him one would never take him to be a phenomenon in
strength or endurance, but in two years he has never been knocked out, despite the many mass heaps that have
been piled on him.

J. A. Schenck
Quarterback and End, D**

John Schenck was the third member of the team to win a place on the all-state eleven. He had the
double duties of playing end and quarter but proved himself equal to the task. During the period that Doc LaFar
was out of the game he also acted as captain. In his role of quarter, he always seemed to know
just which play to call. He could hit the line like a torpedo overcharged with T. N. T., and was
an excellent open field runner. Simmons in commenting on his work says: “As an offensive end Schenck stood alone.” He
could diagnose a play instantly, get down under punts instantly and swoop up a free ball like a hawk. His
70-yard run following a recovered fumble in the Elon game was the longest made by any Wildcat during the year.

S. M. Davis
Tackle, D**

While not of the spectacular type of player that the grandstand is quick to applaud, Davis proved himself to be
one of the most consistent linemen produced at Davidson in some time. Although not heavy, he is strong and aggressive;
his experience together with his hard charging has made him one of the most feared men in the line-up. In
the P. C. game his knee was injured and he was out until the Wofford game. The team took on
new life with his return and played the best games of the season. His work in the Virginia and Richmond
games was particularly brilliant. With the possible exception of Floyd and Weathers, of State, there is no better tackle than
Davis in North Carolina, and with the experience and weight gained this year he will surely make all-state next year.

J. M. McFadden
Halfback, D**

A harder worker than Rooster is not to be found on the team this year. At the beginning of the
season, he spent three weeks in a Charlotte hospital, voluntarily undergoing an operation in order to be in shape for
the season. He cannot be too highly commended for his spirit and sacrifice. Adept at line-smashing, Rooster’s skillful work in
the passing and punting departments won for him the well-deserved berth on the all-state second team in the accompanying pick.
Without detracting from the wonder work of Schenck and Moore in receiving the swineskin, the skill and accuracy of the
passer deserve more credit than is usually given them. Always good, McFadden’s punting at times was little short of phenomenal.
He also brought his educated toe into action on several occasions in drop-kicking. Rooster is another Senior, but we hope
the call of the gridiron will be strong enough to bring him back for one more season.

R. M. Brice
Guard, D

After three years of hard work, Brice was finally rewarded for his labors this year by winning the coveted monogram.
Although handicapped by injuries in several games, he has been the most dependable of all the linemen. He is a
hard, low charger and deserves a world of credit for his great work throughout the year. Always a great defensive
man, Brice has this year developed into a good offensive player as well. His determination and fight have at last
placed him in the honored group of football letter men. George is the most versatile lineman on the squad, being
equally at home at center, guard, or tackle. His strong point is his defensive work and atThis phase of the
game few or none can equal him. His Tarzan-like strength and fight make him a most dangerous man. Buscom had
everything that the occupant of this most scientific and important position should possess: shiftiness and offensive and defensive intelligence. He
stood out in the guard position like a butte in a desert land. He was impregnable to assault and himself
a real battering ram.

Faison End, D*
Faison throughout the season has been a whirlwind player, a driving engine in smashing interference and a pestilence to the
opposing tackle. When on attack and downfield he was an accurately aimed thunderbolt. He had every phase of wing play
at his finger ends and may be regarded as one of the best ends in the state. Faison’s strong point
is his defensive play. He knows how to use his hand in fighting his way to the man with the
ball. In addition, he has the unusual faculty of sensing a play as soon as it gets under way. He
and Schenck make up about the niftiest pair of flank men seen here since the days of King and Walker.

M. D. Field Center, D
Mason, the tall, hefty center of Hugh Gicy’s fighting red machine, earned his right to a letter by his great
passing and defensive work. Although handicapped by a bad knee, which kept him out of several games, his work stamped
him as a great center. He is an accurate passer and his work in leading the backfield on end runs
borders on perfection. His knee was hurt in the Wake Forest game and he was out until the State game,
when he showed his real class, completely outclassing his opponent. In the Carolina contest, while playing the game of his
life, he was again injured and didn’t get back in the fray till the Furman encounter. All Davidson supporters are
looking forward to seeing him in action next year without the jinx under which he has labored this year.

C. M. Davis End, D
Nappy ran wild on the Wildcats’ left flank this season and pulled down the coveted monogram just as surely and
as easily as he pulled down the passes which Rooster shot to him. On the defensive, Nappy changed places with
Schenck and played in the backfield. He did his work as a defensive as well if not as spectacularly as
he did on end. Near the end of the State game when it appeared as if a pass was to
fall incomplete, Nappy appeared from nowhere and grabbed the elusive pigskin for a long gain. With Nappy and Dias back,
both flanks will be well guarded and the Wildcat forward passing attack will be still more formidable next season.

C. M. Clarke Tackle, D
Clarke, the heavyweight of the Wildcats, played a steady game at tackle. Seldom did the opposing backs gain over him
and often he broke through, throwing the runner for a loss. He often coupled up with Sam Davis and took
the opposing guard for a ride. His work in the Wofford and State games deserves special mention.

W. S. Shepherd Fullback, D*
Flowers had his Burns, Black had his Cassell, and Moore has his Shepherd. When it comes to running interference, Gig
stands out above any in the state. Many an end run has gone for 15, 20, or 25 yards because
he piled into the end like a ton of bricks, bowling him over like a ninepin. He is also a
terror at plowing through or backing up a line, still further carrying out his resemblance to Buck Burns. Who knows
what next fall the Atlanta Journal may write of him as it did of Burns in 7-3: “The great little
fullback dashed on and completely ran over Barron (Strupper).” Shepherd also deserves his place on the second all-state team and
stands an excellent chance of stepping into the higher rank next year.

G. B. Sorrells Tackle, D
Another man whose everlasting determination, together with his brute strength, combined to make him a sure hard tackler and a
real battering ram. He enabled the Red and Black machine to get off to a flying start in the State
game, hitting the receiver of the kick-off like a ton of bricks, another Wildcat recovering the ensuing fumble. Playing his
first year on the varsity, he was the running mate of Sam Davis on the other tackle position and this
pair proved themselves the equals of any who faced them. Time after time Montague opened up great gaping holes in
the mighty State line and against Carolina he held like a stone wall. Davidson is fortunate in that Montague has
two more years to play.

GENERAL SURVEY OF STATE SEASON IN FOOTBALL WORK
Dope Bucket Upset All Along the Line in the Scores Made.
The characteristic feature of the football season just passed has been the number of times the dope bucket has been
turned over. We find it in our own season, as in the Wake Forest, N. C. State, and Furman games.
We find it in Carolina football, as Trinity’s 17-0 victory over Wake Forest and Carolina’s victory over Virginia, and it
is found in football all over the country. A few statistics of the season might be interesting. At Davidson during
the season just passed, the Wildcats made the largest number of points in proportion to their opponents of any season
in the past three years.

1921
Davidson 165
Opponents 121

1920
Davidson 95
Opponents 153

1919
Davidson 122
Opponents 139

John Schenck proved the principal point scorer for the Wildcats, netting 53 points. The individual point scores were as follows:
Schenck 53
Moore 21
Erwin 19
Hendrix 18
McFadden 12
Shepard 9
Bethea 9
McAllister 6
Brown 6
Lake 6
Black 6

Not only in points scored did the Wildcats of ’21 outrank their opponents, but in first downs also. Davidson made
137 or an average of 16 7-9 per game for the nine games whose records were available, while our opponents’
first downs reached 105, or an average of 11 2-3 per game.

COMMITTEE ANNOUNCES MEN CHOSEN FOR SENIOR “REPS”
As a result of the exercises of Senior Speaking, held during the recent Senior Week, the committee of judges, headed
by Doctor Arbuckle, has announced the four Seniors winning “Reps” for commencement. They are: E. B. McGukin, whose subject was
“The Tree Warnings of Life;” P. D. Miller, with “Out of the Hills;” G. N. Neal, on “Burden Bearers;” L.
A. Taylor, on the great question, “Who’ll Put the Lid On?” C. G. Brown was alternate. He had as his
subject “As a Man Thinketh.”

Misses Letitia and Lucy Martin Currie, daughters of Prof. A. Currie, spent the weekend with friends in Salisbury.

Football Equipment For Every Sport
The Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. Our goods are known. A. L. Faul, Mgr.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Phone 902

Fall Sports
Basketball
Volleyball
Gymnasium Outfitting

Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment.
