4 The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '19

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. E. CASSELL ------------------------------------ Editor-in-Chief
J. R. WOODS ------------------------------------ Managing Editor
A. P. ORMOND ------------------------------- Assistant Managing Editor
J. P. PRICE ------------------------------------ Assignment Editor
M. R. DOUBLES ------------------------------- Athletic Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN ----------------------------- Alumni Editor
J. C. McCASKILL ----------------------------- Exchange Editor
J. R. BOULWARE ----------------------------- Forum Editor
M. DUNLAP ------------------------------------ Campus Editor
B. W. ROBERTS ------------------------------- Y. M. C. A. Editor
H. A. HILL ------------------------------------ Social Editor
J. M. GASTON, JR. ---------------------------- Literary Editor
R. R. McILWAINE ---------------------------- Official Photographer

CLUB REPORTERS:
Bailey, J. C.
King, A. D.
Ogden, D. H.
Bitzer, R. L.
Lacy, T.
Ormond, A. C.
Long, Phillips, J. W.
Cooper, W. J.
Mahood, D. L.
Phillips, J.
Cunningham, C. E.
Sprunt, J.
Mauze, G. W.
Davidson, R. F.
Mitchell, A. M.
Summers, A. C.
Gamble, W. A.
Morris, H. M.
Tuller, C. D.
Jones, J. R.
Lowrance, D. W.
Wool, J. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. I. MATTHEWS ----------------------------- Business Manager
E. A. NASH ------------------------------------ Assistant Managers
J. S. CURRY

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. W. McDONALD ----------------------------- Circulation Manager
Sam C. McADAMS ----------------------------- Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

LAST Sunday at church during the final prayer the rustling made by the students in putting on their overcoats was so noticeable as to disturb the solemnity of the service. We do not believe in a religion of long faces and long prayers, but we are convinced that quietness should be maintained during such services. There is no need of all this rush, for dinner is not served for some time afterwards. Consider the effect of your actions on other people and decide to do the right thing.

The Glee Club seems to have been gleefully received everywhere on the recent trip. We are glad to learn of the splendid success of this organization as it is only another means of letting the outside world know what Davidson is.

Some enterprising student ought to open a safety pin shop. There is a great future for such a business on the campus since the laundry “debuttoner” is still working overtime.

WE NEED A WIRELESS STATION.

There is no disputing the question that any up-to-date college is seriously considering the installing of a wireless station. Several of the larger institutions, such as Virginia, Auburn, North Carolina, and others, are already equipped and are using this means to scatter broadcast the daily news of their colleges. It is an excellent plan to put the school “on the map.” The Orange and Blue of Auburn expresses it thus: “Our plant is working for and boosting Auburn all the time, in its own wireless way.” Our publication would gladly undertake the installation of such a station were it not for a matter of finances. To overcome this difficulty we would suggest that the Physics Department of our institution take this matter under consideration to be used in connection with its electrical course. In this way it can serve a double purpose and be a great asset in many ways. The practical operation of the wireless offers no obstacles as we have a radio man of several years’ experience in college. We trust that the Dean of the Physics Department will soon become actively interested in this matter.

THE NEW JUNIOR SPEAKING.

Junior Speaking for this year is hailed with greater joy than ever before for two reasons. The first is that there will not be the agony of long public exercises entailed upon both speakers and hearers. The second reason is the stand that the Junior Class is taking to rejuvenate the social activities held at this season. This body of students is to be congratulated upon this move that is so essentially democratic in its purpose and scope. The social life of our campus is by far too limited, and it is high time it is being taken from the hands of the few and put into the hands of the many. To ensure the success of this new plan there must be the cooperation of every student on the campus. No individual organization can afford to run counter to this movement. The fraternity and non-fraternity men must remember only that they are Davidson men united in giving to our campus a season of social life that will bring wholesome pleasure to all. Every man has been cordially asked to invite a girl to the forensic exercises to be the guest of the Junior Class. The more the merrier, and greater will be the success of the New Junior Speaking.

Open Forum
J. R. Boulware, Editor.

“AN ODE TO THE GIRL.”
(By one of the Boys).

Little girl, you are so small,
Don’t you wear no clothes at all?
Don’t you wear no shimmy shirt?
Don’t you wear no “petti skirt?”
Justyour corset and your hose— Are those all your underclothes? Little Girl, you are so slight When I see you in the light. With your skirts cut rather high, Won't you catch a cold and die? Aren't you 'fraid to show your calf? It must make the fellows laugh. Little girl, what is the cause? Why your clothes all made of gauze? Don't you wear no undervest When you go out fully dressed? Do you like those peek-a-boos 'Stead of normal underclothes? Little girl, your 'spenders show When the sunshine plays just so. I can see your tinted flesh Through your thinnest gown of mesh; Is it modest do you s'pose, Not to wear no underclothes? I can see way past your throat To a region most remote; 'Taint my fault, now, don't suppose, Why not wear some underclothes? Little girl, your socks have shoals Of those tiny little holes; Why you want to show your limb I do not know; is it a whim? Do you want to catch the eye Of the fellows passing by? Little girl, where is the charm In your long, uncovered arm? And the "V" behind your neck— Is it for the birds to peck? Little girl, I tell you those Are not as nice as underclothes.

Little girl, now listen here: You would be just twice as dear If you'd cover up your charms— Neck, back, legs and both your arms. I would take you to some shows If you'd wear some underclothes; But no lover—goodness knows— Wants a girl "sans" underclothes. Little girl, your mystery, Loving charms and modesty Are what makes us fellows keen To possess a little queen. S'pose I wore some harem pants, Or no shirt like all my aunts, Or a ringlet through my nose— They'd arrest me, don't you s'pose? I must wear a coat of mail, Clothed from head to big toe nail; I must cover up my form Even when the weather's warm.

CHECKER TOURNAMENT NOW IN PROGRESS

Considerable interest is being manifested in the progress of the checker tournament. When the call went out for movers of the red and black discs, 25 men responded and since Monday the elimination contests have been taking place each afternoon in the "Y" room at the gymnasium. In the preliminary contests three out of five games have been necessary to keep in the running, but in the semi-finals and finals it will be four out of seven. The committee in charge are: W. P. Nesbit, J. C. McCaskill and H. E. Lewis. It is a little early to pick the winners but Lewis, O. E. Massey, Norman, Shepard, Nesbitt, and Steel are each attracting followers who say little but look wise when "champion" is mentioned. Checkers have become quite a favorite this spring, giving horse-shoes a close race for popularity and the college best will be an honor well worth possessing. Announcement of the finals will be made next week.

On last Tuesday Mrs. Hearn entertained with an afternoon tea in honor of her friend, Mrs. Watson.

VANDERBILT TO VOTE UPON THE FEE SYSTEM

The Student Council of Vanderbilt University is attempting to have the students pass a Student Activity Fee similar to the blanket fee used here at Davidson. The proposed system which they wish to put before the Board of Trustees is a fee amounting to fifteen dollars, which is apportioned among the various student activities —Vanderbilt Hustler.

AGNES SCOTT ESTABLISHES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB

Agnes Scott College has established a branch of the International Relations Club. Miss Hearon is the supervisor of the club and it is made up of members of the History 9 class. Already the club has arranged for two speakers, Bishop Nicholai, of the Greek Orthodox Church, is to speak on Serbia, March 3rd, and Prof. William Kimball, of Smith College, will speak on the Mexican situation, March 30th.

TED SULLIVAN HERE TO HELP COACH WAKE FOREST TEAM

Ted Sullivan, famous lecturer on baseball, and veteran of the diamond, is coming to Wake Forest and is planning to spend a month helping Coach White put out the best baseball team that ever went forth from this institution —Old Gold and Black.

STUDENT VOLUNTEERS OF VIRGINIA MEET

The Annual Convention of the Student Volunteers of Virginia was held this year at Roanoke College, Salem, from the 18th to the 20th of this month. —The Ring-Tum Phi.

We notice that State College is sending a chicken judging team to the National (Continued on page 5)

Don't take a fellow's pipe. Take some other possession. Because wrapped up in his pipe is a fellow's peace of mind, his relaxation, his contentment. This is more than true if it's a WDC Pipe, because then a good smoke is multiplied many times over. Our special seasoning process takes care of this by bringing out all the sweetness and mellowness of the genuine French briar. Just you go to any good dealer and select several good shapes. Put them in your rack. Smoke a cool one every time, and you'll be well on your way to pipe-happiness.

Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST PIPE MANUFACTURERS