THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 20, 1921

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

DR. HOOD’S BIBLE CLASS ORGANIZED LAST SUNDAY

At the organization of Dr. Fraser Hood’s Bible Class last Sunday, J. C. Wool was elected president; T. L. Fraser, vice-president; and H. H. Smith, secretary and treasurer. Dwight Chalmers had charge of organizing as Dr. Hood was absent in Greensboro. Dr. Pettengill taught the lesson and led the discussion. It was decided that the offerings of the class would be kept separate from the rest of the Sunday School collection and would be used for some special purpose. It will probably be used to support an orphan at Barium Springs, as this, being near Davidson, will lend a more personal touch. The attendance will be boosted and the record attendances of last year are hoped to be obtained. Every member is on the attendance committee to enlarge the size of the class.

BIBLE CLASS ATTENDANCE SHOWS FURTHER DECLINE

The record of the Wednesday night Bible classes shows that attendance has dropped from 295 on September 28th to 205 last week. Ninety were absent, and the first number makes it plain that hardly over half of the total number of students were present at the first meeting. Perhaps this decrease is due to the fact that Thursday is a full day for many, and some students feel that they cannot spare even 30 minutes from their studies. If this is true, it would be advisable to change the time of the meeting, which may be shifted to another night with advantage to all. A list of the various classes with the number present at each follows:

Misha White .......... 25
Louisiana ............ 12
Gooch ............... 18
Watts (1) ............ 10
Watts (2) ............ 10
Watts (3) ............ 10
Rumple (1) ........... 0
Rumple (2) ........... 12
Rumple (3) ........... 10
S. Barracks (1) ...... 0
S. Barracks (2) ...... 5
S. Barracks (3) ...... 9
N. Barracks (1) ...... 7
N. Chambers (1) ...... 17
N. Chambers (2) ...... 22
N. Chambers (3) ...... 12
S. Chambers (1) ...... 12
S. Chambers (2) ...... 16
S. Chambers (3) ...... 13

R.O.T.C. COMPANIES PRACTICE ARMISTICE DAY MANEUVRES

All companies in the battalion composing the Reserve Officers’ Training Corps unit of Davidson College are now working on the stunt drills to be given on Armistice Day. Each company has its own plans for the day. These plans are not to be known by the public or by the other companies until they are seen enacted on the field at the given date of November 11th. The companies have selected their colors, but they also have not yet been announced by the officers in charge.

MINISTERIAL BAND'S FIRST DEPUTATION OUT LAST WEEK

The Ministerial Band, on Sunday, October 16th, sent out its first deputation. Henry Patterson, R. Bitzer, and T. A. Lacy went to Huntersville and there conducted services in the Old Hopewell Church. Both morning and evening services were well attended, especially by the young people. The morning service was led by Bitzer in a very unique way. He stated the question: “Resolved, That every young Christian not providentially hindered should give full-time Christian service,” and in true debater’s style he proved that the ministry was the best field for this service. Patterson closed the morning service by showing the great need of ministers, and what a great life-work is open in this field. At the evening service Bitzer, by means of blackboard charts, showed just what our church is doing. The service was closed by Patterson making a personal appeal to all present in behalf of the ministry. The Ministerial Band plans three more deputations for the near future: one to Monroe, one to Harrisburg, and one to the A. R. P. Church at Huntersville. This is the first year the Ministerial Band has ever done any deputation work, and the fact that their first services were well attended is a great encouragement to them.

On last Friday and Saturday, Secretary Dwight Chambers was in Canton, N.C., attending an Older Boys’ Conference. There were five prep schools represented and Chalmers had charge of the discussion of Y. M. C. A. methods. On Wednesday and Thursday of this week, the local secretary is doing some work at Elon and Guilford for the State Y. M. C. A. committee. Next week he will be at Trinity and Wake Forest and at State College and the University. After this, he hopes to be able to spend more of his time at Davidson.

SENIORS PLAN FOR SENIOR WEEK, NOV. 25TH-28TH

Ye Seniors, stop, look and listen! There is a great day in store for you, not far ahead. Beginning November 25th and extending through November 28th, there will be one of the greatest occasions ever held at Davidson College. This occasion is going to be known as “Senior Week.” It has never before been even dreamed of at Davidson, but without a doubt, it will eclipse the grand Junior speaking events of last year. The program has been skillfully worked out and promises to have a thrill in store for almost every minute of the time. On Friday morning, the Glee Club will make its first appearance before the public. Under the able leadership of D. P. McGeachy, it has indications of being the best in the history of the college. Friday afternoon, the “Wildkittens” will battle with the Clemson second team. The Kittens have a history that can’t be beat and the Clemson team is very confident, so the struggle promises to be full of fight. Saturday morning, the carefully prepared program of the Dramatic Club will be given together with Senior speaking, the faculty having made the whole day a holiday. Major Hearn and the other officers seem pleased with the way in which the new men are learning to execute the manual of arms. With just a week or so more of drilling, it is certain that the Davidson College unit will be as neat in appearance and as precise in the execution of orders as any in the state. Many of the faculty were also over on the sidelines Saturday. One of the most striking events of the occasion will be the Senior reception Saturday night. The girls will remain on the hill over Sunday. Dwight Chambers, with his able committee on arrangements, will...assist in securing rooms for visitors out in town. The reception rooms at the Gymnasium will be decorated and used as faithfully as they were last year.

18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
Fall Sports
Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting.

Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. You know them.

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faul, Mgr.
Phone 902

With Other Colleges
(By N.C. C. P. A.)

N. C. C. W. Plans Alumnae Building.
Greensboro, N. C., Oct. 12—At a meeting of the Alumnae Association of the North Carolina College for Women on Founder’s Day, plans were approved for the construction of an alumnae building which will be a modern structure of three stories with adequate facilities for lodging, club meetings, meals, etc. Construction of the cafeteria will begin at once and the entire structure, estimated to cost $100,000, is expected to be completed by commencement.

“Queens Blues” Staff Aids College Library.
The Better Library Movement which was instituted last year by the “Queens Blues” staff is progressing splendidly. The library was cleaned and re-arranged by the Freshman class and the Kappa Omicron Honorary Society has taken it in charge as there is no librarian. The Kappa Omicrons are planning to card catalogue the library soon.

Freshman At N. C. C. W. Organize Their Class.
Greensboro, N. C., Oct. 12—Under the supervision of members of the Junior class, the largest Freshman class in the history of the college, the membership of which numbers over 500, assembled in the college auditorium Saturday, October 8th, for the purpose of organizing. The election of class officers was accompanied by an enthusiastic demonstration of class spirit. By a big majority vote, Ruth Wilson, of Dover, N. C., was elected president of the class.

Community Hut To Be Erected At Queens.
Charlotte, N. C., Oct. 17—The student body is planning the construction of a Community Hut on the campus. It is to be a large, rustic one-room cottage, to be used as a club room, Y. W. C. A. council meeting house, home economics, tea room, Kappa Omicron, Phi Beta Chi meeting place and headquarters for the “Queens Blues” and many other organizations.

Queens College Extends Honor System.
Charlotte, N. C., Oct. 17—The student council has been busy getting the Honor System installed and in working order. All of the boarding students have signed pledge cards, which carry the system into the classroom as well as on the campus and in the dormitories. Similar pledges will be signed by the day students within the next week.

MARSHAL FOCH TO BE AT REUNION OF THIRTIETH.
Head of Allied Armies to Meet With Old Hickory Veterans in Nashville, November 4th.

Marshal Ferdinand Foch, chief of all the allied armies in the great final drive to victory, will be in Nashville, November 4th, to attend the opening day of the third annual reunion of the Old Hickory Association, veterans of the Thirtieth Division.

It is also probable that Admiral David Beatty, hero of the Battle of Jutland and the chief of the British Navy, will attend the reunion. Definite acceptance has not been received from Admiral Beatty, however. Besides these distinguished visitors, General Pershing, eight of the 12 Congressional Medal of Honor men of the Thirtieth Division will also be guests of the Old Hickory Association. Four other Medal of Honor men of the Division fell on the field of battle.

The eight living holders of the medal, who are expected at the division reunion, are Calvin J. Ward, Morristown, Tenn., Sergeant James E. Karnes, Knoxville, Tenn., and Sergeant Edward R. Talley, Russellville, Tenn., all of the 117th Infantry; Sergeant Richmond H. Hilton, Westerville, S. C., Lieutenant John H. Dozier, Rock Hill, S. C., Sergeant Garey Evans Foster, Inman, S. C., and Corporal John C. Villepigue, Camden, S. C., all of the 118th Infantry; Sergeant Joseph B. Adkinson, Atoka, Tenn., 119th Infantry.

Reduced railroad rates of one and one-half fare for the round trip to Nashville have been offered to members of the Old Hickory Association. Tickets will be sold on the certificate plan. Certificates may be gotten from Frank P. Bowden, Knoxville, Tenn., Secretary of the Association, or from headquarters at Nashville.

TOWN NEWS.
The Book Lover’s Club met last Friday with Mrs. J. L. Currie. Interesting papers were read by Mrs. W. R. Grey, Mrs. Hood and Mrs. Hamilton.

Mrs. W. R. Grey left on Monday for a visit to her daughter, Miss Elizabeth Grey, who is in training in the Presbyterian Hospital, New York City.

Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle left Friday for Roanoke, Va., to visit Mrs. Lingle’s sister. Mrs. Lingle will spend the week there, while Dr. Lingle will go to Tarboro, N. C., to attend the Synod of North Carolina.

William Black, who was hurt in a football game in Lewisburg, W. Va., is at home as a convalescent.

R. J. Hursey, owing to eye trouble, has temporarily left the hill.

STATIONERY
A full and complete line of Eaton, Crane and Pike Co’s. Linen Lawn and Highland Linen writing paper

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this line
Army Shoes
Dress Shoes and Tennis Shoes
We also have a good line of FURNISHINGS

Knox & Barnette

Mrs. F. L. Felker and Miss Sue Mock spent the week-end with their uncle, Mr. John Mock, of Charlotte.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
75 Chambers

Get Your Clothes Cleaned
The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
See their agent: W. Yonan
12 Chambers

The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South

We serve the best and Freshest Meats on the Market.
“LOOK US OVER”
MAIN STREET
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

NEW YORK CAFE
Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies

Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

This Space Reserved for Piedmont Theatre service.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., Writes Insurance
He wants your business. He represents only the best companies and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your