oO

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

SPECIAL OFFER

To those purchasing Suits at THE TRAYMORE TAILORING COMPANY'S opening

HIGH PRICES CUT TO PIECES
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, 25th and 26th

THE MACAMAC COMPANY
AT THE POWERHOUSE

WAKE FOREST TO HAVE SUMMER SCHOOL
Tennis Team Organized With J. C. Kesler as President.
(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Wake Forest, Feb. 19—Following the organization of a Wake Forest Tennis Club, four new courts are being constructed on the track field which was originally built for courts. All students are eligible to membership of the club upon payment of the three dollar fee, which entitles the payee to all privileges of the club during his residence at Wake Forest. J. C. Kesler was elected president of the club and J. L. Memory manager.

At a recent meeting of the faculty committee on the Wake Forest Summer School, details apropos of that project were worked out. Dr. William Louis Poteat is president of the Summer School; Prof. H. T. Hunter, director; Mr. E. B. Earnshaw, registrar; and Miss Campbell, of Meredith College, dean of the women students. The school will open June 14th and close July 27th. It was decided that the faculty of the Summer School would be chosen from those of Wake Forest, Meredith, and Oxford Colleges. Courses will be offered in about every college department, and those which are required by the State Board of Education for North Carolina teachers, and also eleventh grade work will be given so that high school students will be able to remove conditions for college entrance—Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest College.

TRINITY TO DEBATE RICHMOND AND SWARTHMORE.
(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Trinity College, Feb. 17—At a recent meeting of the Trinity College Inter-Collegiate debaters and the faculty advisor, it was decided that the team personnel arrangement for the forthcoming debates is to be as follows: Trinity affirmative team against Richmond negative, at Richmond, March 5th, and Swarthmore negative at Swarthmore, March 18th: H. E. Fisher (captain), Samuel M. Holton, and Jay L. Jackson. Trinity negative team against Richmond affirmative, March 5th, in Craven Memorial Hall: George D. Harmon (captain), Dwight Ware, and Claud Grigg; Trinity negative team against Emory, April 2nd (tentative), John H. Small (captain), Henry Sprinkle, and Hugh Leffler.

Each of these teams will discuss the same query, and definite announcements as to the Harvard debate, the query and dates for both the preliminary and the final contests will be published as soon as these arrangements are completed.—Walter W. Turrentine.

You’ve said it all when you say “Camels!”

But—if you tried to tell the world what Camels have done for you, you couldn’t find half enough glowing words in the dictionary.

When you smoke Camels you get all the joy of Camels' remarkable blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos and you get Camels' superb mellow mildness and refreshing flavor—the most appetizing, most satisfying you ever puffed from any cigarette in the world at any price!

And, no matter how liberally you smoke, Camels never tire your taste! And, what’s more, they leave no unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste nor unpleasant cigaretty odor!

Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Winston-Salem, N. C.