The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before All Articles tiny. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Alumni Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Official Photographer

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Ogden, D. H.
Ormond, A. C.
Phillips, J. W.
Sprunt, J.
Summers, A. C.
Tuller, C. D.
Wool, J. C.
King, A. D.
Lacy, T. A.
Long, C. G.
Bailey, J. C.
Bitzer, R.
Cooper, W. J.
Cunningham, C. E.
Gamble, W. A.
Jones, J. R.
Mahood, D. L.
Mauze, G. W.
Mitchell, A. M.
Morris, H. M.
Lowrance, D. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
C. J. MATTHEWS - Business Manager
E. A. NASH
J. S. CURRY - Assistant Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. H. LON - Circulation Manager
J. C. WOOL - Assistant Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

“A friend may well be reckoned the masterpiece of nature.”

A NEW STUDENT, who enrolled here after leaving another school, was heard to remark that the only big trouble with Davidson was that you could not make others believe how good she is. That is what we call true Davidson loyalty and spirit. And it is just this that the members of the Greater Davidson Club must have in order to make our school bigger and better. Put your shoulders to the wheel, men, and make things move.

The aftermath of rains and snows is a dreaded thing on our campus due to lack of substantial walks. Cement, or even gravel, walks would add much to the beauty of our campus as well as to the convenience of the students. Of course, it is absurd to think of a complete system of walks being laid at one time, but by adding a little year to year it could be gradually accomplished.

We sometimes wonder what some students consider the ultimate purpose of an educational institution. Judging from a certain increasing class it would seem that they believe college to be a camouflaged recreational establishment. Our suggestion to these is that they should change their attitude, for college was not founded for a winter resort.

The last three games indicate that our quint is gaining in offensive strength in every contest. We are proud of our fighting five, but there is danger in too many overwhelming victories. Self-confidence can easily be the disastrous ruin of any team.

And at last the Glee Club is really materializing into a live organization. Much credit is due to Mrs. Frazer Hood for her faithful and efficient assistance. There is no reason why Davidson should not put out as good a musical organization of this kind as any other college in the State. Men with any talent at all should lend their aid as a real Glee Club is good advertisement for any school.

How would the students like Sunday afternoon concerts this spring by our band?

The recent snow has apparently awakened a spirit in our students of breaking window panes. If the money required to remedy these damages were used for famine relief, many pains of the starving could be alleviated. The Superintendent of the College grounds has just informed us that over five hundred dollars will be needed this year to cover only the damages of this nature. Where is the Damage Committee? It is outrageous that such a practice as this should be countenanced. It is not only a waste of money, but not fair that all have to suffer the loss caused by the perverted sense of fun of a few.

BACK TO THE OLD WAY.

It is not our desire to be Bolshevistic in our attitude toward the finer arts, but we do believe that the time has come when the ban should be put on all the student musicians, especially those would-be musicians, who make it their habit to practice after eight o'clock at night. For some reason this clause was omitted in the revision of the Student Body Constitution last spring. This, however, should be no check on a provision again being made to cover this matter.

We personally know of many boys on the campus who are complaining that so much noise and confusion (they include the musical renditions in this classification) is detrimental to efficient study. That they are right in their contention is plainly seen by all reasonable thinking men. The remedy is just as plain. Definite action should be taken by the Student Council to relieve the campus of this nuisance. Such proceedings will mean an amendment to the Constitution, but if brought before the student body it would be overwhelmingly ratified.

EXEMPTION FOR ALL?

When Dr. Martin read the honor roll it seemed that the regulation for exemption of Juniors and Seniors from term examination if they made above 85 on their daily and review grade, had increased the number on the honor roll. This exemption from term examination has raised the grades of Juniors and Seniors, would it not help the grade of the whole student body? This is not intended to lower the average required for exemption but does favor the application to the whole student body. The figures in last week's Davidsonian show that the general average of the fraternities was 78. The fraternities are not below the average in scholastic standing. By making this application, to be benefited by it the average standing would have to be raised. That is to say the average student would have to put out more work than he has been doing, but would he not gladly do it for the reward. Too many are contented with simply a pass, would they not work harder for a higher goal with a reward. Something in reach of every student and in finding he can make this average strive for the honor roll the nearer to perfection.

C. F.

—We Want 10 Class Reunions in 1921—

A WORD FROM AN ALUMNUS.

To whom it may interest: students, faculty, trustees, or mere alumni. I am following the advice of a wise father to an aspiring lover: “My son, do not express yourself until you can hold in no longer.” It was not with a feeling purely of pride that we heard last fall of the record-breaking attendance at Davidson. Nor does the slogan We Want 500 Students Next Year. Begin Now. appeal to us as it once might have. Five years ago our slogan was: A Bigger and A Better Davidson, but the time has now come, we feel, when, for a few years, the first half had better be left off.

But, it will be urged, the larger the college, the greater its renown, the wider its influence, the more real and extensive its service. Yet this is not altogether true. What reputation Davidson has came not because of her size, but because of the quality of her scholarship and sportsmanship, and the spirit that pervades her campus. The institutionsin the United States that enjoy the most enviable reputations and exert the greatest influence, are not the largest. Can you reckon the influence of the colleges of North and South Carolina from the numbers of students that attend them? What is the measure of the service of a college? Is it not her effect upon the average student's mind and character plus the influence of that student on his home community times the number of students at the college? Now it would be fine to increase the numerical factor, but we must be careful lest in so doing we diminish the other less tangible elements. Consider what Davidson will have to pay for continued increase in numbers. It is a common complaint at present that the Davidson spirit is not what it used to be. How can it be the same with four and a half hundred men on the campus as it was with only three hundred? Men cannot know each other so well. In place of the unity, there comes the tendency to clique formation. There passes away that intimate contact between the faculty members and the student. Indeed it has so far passed already that many students, who have never felt the wholesome influence of such a relationship, scoff at it. And unless some new source of material wealth is discovered, Davidson's equipment is apt to remain on the ragged edge of inadequacy. Since leaving Davidson, two years have been spent at each of two large institutions. (It is not a large experience to draw conclusions from, although as large, probably as that of many readers of this article.) And we must confess that we have found nothing in them that we could wish for Davidson, which can be in any way attributed to the size of the university—not even strong athletic teams. On the other hand, many disadvantages of large size have been strongly impressed upon us. Mere size is spectacular, but intrinsically it is of little value. We could wish to see Davidson for the next two or three or four years limit the size of her student body to four hundred. We believe that if she made this fact known, she would hereafter be able to choose the best of an increasing number of applicants. We believe that many of the purposeless and unhelpful students that infest every student body would be eliminated, and their places taken by others more worthy. We believe that the quality of the average student would be bettered, and that the true Davidson spirit would be more powerfully felt. We believe that more than forty percent of the Freshmen would graduate, and that the individual training of those graduates would be better. And we believe that in the aggregate Davidson would increase to no small extent her service to the South, and to the world. Phil Price, '17. Baltimore, Md.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 4, 1921. | Open Forum | EXCHANGE

Read the exchanges in the Library.

VANDERBILT ALUMNUS TO LECTURE TO STUDENTS ON RELIGIOUS WORK.

Fletcher Brockman, International Secretary of the Y. M. C. A, and one of Vanderbilt's well-known alumni, will speak to the students of Vanderbilt in the university chapel Monday under the auspices of the local Y. M. C. A. Mr. Brockman will lecture on all phases of religious work. —The Vanderbilt Hustler.

College Girl (home on vacation)—“Oh, father, why didn’t you tell me you had those benches painted? Frank and I sat down on one and Frank got paint on his trousers.” —The Vanderbilt Hustler.

They say the Emory boys are wrinkling their noble brows because the Martha girls are wearing silk hose and pumps out in the snow. The mystery is: Where do their minds run? Why can't they meet our eyes with smiles and not be so downcast? —Martha’s Mirror.

Washington and Lee observed Founder’s Day in commemoration of General Robert E. Lee. Exercises were held in the chapel on Wednesday morning, January 10th, the speaker being Dr. S. C. Mitchell, head of the department of history at the University of Richmond. In a short introductory speech, President Smith gave a few interesting facts concerning General Lee’s connection with this institution, and spoke of his sacrifice in giving his service to Washington College when he could have had a princely salary with idleness and luxury elsewhere. Robert E. Lee rode into Lexington on a borrowed horse with forty dollars of borrowed money in his pocket, to take up his work as president of Washington College for a salary of $1,500 a year. —The Ring-tum Phi.

Austin College is hoping to endow itself with oil. A big gusher, flowing about 3000 barrels daily, has been brought in at a distance of about six miles from a tract of land owned by the college and it is hoped that this will increase the value of the land enough to secure a suitable endowment fund for the college. —Kangaroo.

All fraternities at the University of Arkansas have decided to give up their formal dances during the current session on account of the bad financial conditions prevailing in the South at present. —U. of Arkansas Weekly.

It has been definitely announced that Tulane University will not have a Varsity baseball team this year. —Hullabaloo.

“A San Francisco man brought suit for divorce, objecting to his wife bringing a pet lion to bed.” Gee! Some husbands are certainly finicky! —Helena Independent.

Here lies in peace Sylvester Stew. He learned to make his own home brew. —Ex.

It was a beautiful moonlight night, and they were taking a stroll along the beach.
She: “Does the moon affect the tide?”
He: “No, dearest, only the untied.” —Exchange.

Dormitory Regulations.

Students wishing to do a little driving will find a hammer and nails in the closet.

If your light goes out, take a feather from your pillow, that’s light enough.

If you are fond of athletics, lift the mattress, and see the bed spring.

If you get hungry try a roll in bed.

If you want a janitor wring the towel.

If you want to write a letter you'll find a sheet on the bed.

Don’t worry about paying your room rent. The dormitory is supported by the foundation. —Ex.

The Doggone Truth.

I’ve been a good fellow
Earned all I spent;
Paid all I borrowed;
Lost all I lent.
I once loved a woman,
That came to an end;
Get a good dog boys,
He's always your friend. —Red and Black.

Mess Hall Repartee.

Hollingsworth: Will you pass the catsup?
Windham: I don’t see any cats but here are some delicious dogs.

Who'd a Thunk It?

Fresh Bible students are told that in all probability the golden candlesticks were made of solid silver.

A fresh says that the Soph class had better give Dick Richards a guard as Dick might be permanently injured by himself and comrades who are skilled in slinging a wicked snowball.

IF you would know real smoke contentment, just you smoke a WDC Pipe full of your favorite tobacco. Then you'll know what a real French briar is, and what the Demuth seasoning will do to make it break in sweet and mellow. Ask any good dealer to show you a variety of shapes, then pick yours.

W. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES