THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 11, 1921.

Christian Activities

These classes will meet every Sunday morning at 10 a.m.; further information in regard to them will be announced later.

INTERCOLLEGIATE PROHIBITION ASSOCIATION UNDERTAKES BROADER CIVIC PROGRAM

SALESMAN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address THE LENOX OIL AND PAINT
CO., Cleveland, Ohio.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.

The fool hath said in his heart, "There is no God."—Psalm.

MEMBERS OF JUNIOR CLASS PRESENT REPORT OF VOLUNTEER CONVENTION

Last Sunday’s “Y” Service Devoted to Talks by Price and Cunningham.

A very pleasant innovation was formed last Sunday by the presence of a large number of young ladies at the
Y. M. C. A. meeting. One of them, Miss Dorothy Patterson, from Queens College, sang a delightful solo, accompanied on
the piano by K. B. McCutchen. After the Scripture reading by Chalmers, J. P. Price and Ed Cunningham, both of
the Junior class, spoke of the Student Volunteer Convention at Trinity College, and of the messages this convention brought.

The enlarged program will include such problems as conditions of labor, especially child labor; vice and gambling, immigration, and Americanization.
Especial emphasis will be put upon the coming year which was outlined by the General Secretary at the meeting of
the Board of Directors of the Intercollegiate Prohibition Association in Chicago on December 20th, and which was unanimously approved by
the board, will make the association from now on practically an intercollegiate civic association. Indeed, some favored changing the name
to “Intercollegiate Civic Association,” as more clearly defining the present work of the association, but it seemed best to others
to keep the name which has been known for over twenty years. A committee was appointed, however, to consider the
matter and report at the next meeting.

PERFECT PRINTING PLATES

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

The greatness of God is the true rebuke to the littleness of men.

DELIVERED
Phone 25-W
CORNELIUS, N.C.

Kodak EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE PRICES 4c 5c 6c 10c Vest Pocket 2 1-413 14 2 1-224 1-2 4 1-436 1-2 Developing
any size roll We use glossy paper unless otherwise requested. Cash with order or work will be mailed C. O.
D. on negative for sample print Charlotte Photo Company CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A New Narrow ROW COLLAR Given, Peabody & Co., Inc., Troy, N.Y.

New Central Hotel In the center of the theatre shopping district. Thoroughly modern and up-to-date. Where Courtesy and Service is
the motto. Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte. Frank Gregeon, Mgr.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED They will look new. The Ben Vonde Co. The best Dyers
in the South. Agency At the Powerhouse.

White’s Meat Market BEST FRESH MEATS

The greatness of Christ is the true rebuke to the littleness of Christians—Dean Stanley.

He that will deserve the name of a Christian must be such a man as excelleth through the knowledge of
Christ and His doctrine; in modesty and righteousness of mind, in constancy of life, in virtuous fortitude and in maintaining
sincere piety toward the one and the only God, who is all in all —Eusebius.

DR. W. W. MOORE TO DELIVER LECTURES HERE ON MARCH 12 AND 13.

PRESIDENT OF UNION SEMINARY TO DELIVER FOURTH COURSE OF ADDRESSES ON OTTS FOUNDATION.

On Saturday and Sunday, March 12th and 13th, Rev. Walter William Moore, D.D., LL.D., '78, president of the Union Theological
Seminary, will be in Davidson to deliver the fourth series of lectures on the Otts Foundation. Dr. Moore will give
his first lecture in Shearer Hall just before the dinner hour on Saturday, the second at the regular Sunday morning
service in the church, and the third and last at the evening hour.

The Otts Lectureship was established in 1893 by Rev. J. M. P. Otts, D.D., LL.D., and provides for the delivering
and publishing of series of lectures at Davidson College in defense of Christianity against current heresies, especially such as may
seem directed against the foundations of the Christian faith. The first course was delivered by the founder, under the title,
“Unsettled Questions;” the second on “The Atonement,” by Rev. Robert L. Dabney, D.D., LL.D.; and the third by Rev. J.
B. Shearer, D.D., LL.D., concerning “Modern Mysticism; or the Covenants of the Spirit.” Dr. Moore comes to deliver the fourth
course after ample and thorough preparation, and it is with the highest hopes and expectations that the faculty and student
body look forward to his coming. He is one of Davidson’s oldest and most distinguished living alumni, and she is
justly proud of him.

ROOMS IN GYMNASIUM BEAUTIFIED FOR USE OF VISITORS.

During the three days of Junior Speaking there was no more attractive or popular place on the campus than the
Junior reception rooms at the Y. M. C. A. Since there was no place for the Junior class to entertain
their guests, the “Y” offered its rooms as reception halls. The Juniors certainly proved their ability as decorators. It was
noised about over the campus that never before had pennants, banners, and other like articles, been used to produce such
beautiful and comfortable parlors. At almost every hour of those eventful days the sound of happy voices and pleasant strains
of music were brightening this part of the campus. From all appearances the Junior reception rooms were a great success
and added much to the pleasures of the speaking of the class of ’22.

TWO MISSION STUDY CLASSES BEGUN UNDER AUSPICES OF VOLUNTEER BAND.

One of the great demands of many Davidson students will soon be answered with the launching of two mission study
classes. This is the first of the many mission activities to be expected on the campus as a result of
the Student Volunteer Conference in Durham last month. One of these classes will be a study of Industrial Missions and
the other of Medical Missions. The former will use the text-book “Ancient People at New Tasks,” by Willard Price, and
the latter “Medical Missions,” by Lambeth. Major Hearn will conduct the class in Industrial Missions, but the leader of the
other has not been decided upon.had brought to them. Price told of the call of a dying world, showing the
great need in the Foreign Field. He showed the great opportunity for leadership and for pioneer work. Christ expects us
to go, and we must do it unless there is some reason we can present to Him for not going.
He closed with an incident from the Great War in which a soldier mortally wounded while rescuing another said that
it was worth it all for the comrade had said he had been expecting him. The whole world, he said,
is expecting us. Cunningham opened his remarks with a brief review of the conference, discussing the various speakers. He said
that he had been impressed with the needs brought out. For instance, Atlanta would have only one doctor and one
nurse if it were in China. He said that the life of service is the happiest in the world, quoting
Livingstone’s declaration: “Sacrifice? I don’t know what sacrifice means.” He also quoted one of the speakers of the conference, Dr.
Caldwell, when he said, “I would not give one year of my life in China for all the millions my
partners made in business.” He closed by showing that God has promised to be with us and strengthen us in
all our tasks upon the field. The service was concluded very appropriately by a quartette of four of the delegates,
Beck, Jones, Buchanan, and Cunningham, who sang the convention song, “I’ll Go Where You Want Me to Go.”

FOURTEEN DAVIDSON STUDENTS ATTEND LAYMEN’S CONVENTION

Fourteen delegates representing the college left Tuesday morning to attend the Laymen's Convention of the Presbyterian Church being held in
Greenville, S.C. They were accompanied by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, who was instrumental in planning the trip, and by Dwight
Chalmers. Some of the principal speakers on the program were: Dr. H. L. Smith, Dr. J. Campbell White, and Dr.
Arbuckle. The money to defray the expense of the trip was very generously given by Mr. C. E. Graham, of
Greenville. The following students attended the convention: J. C. McCaskill, T. M. Lowry, J. M. McFadden, A. F. Fricker, C.
M. McCaskill, J. B. Sizer, D. C. Shaw, J. S. Curry, J. R. McKeldin, A. P. Ormond, J. M. Dunlap,
H. B. Culbreth, G. M. Morrow, and D. L. Mahood. The Davidson delegation returned this afternoon.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Pupils. Teachers.
Brawley’s 38 4
Caldwell 63 6
Cornelius No report.
Cowan's 10 2
Mill 19 2
Oak Grove 16 3
Shearer 8 4

The University of Washington is the first in the United States to engage in an international debate. On January 21st
they met the University of British Columbia, Canada. The University of Washington was included in the recent itinerary of the
debate team from Princeton University, which met seven different Pacific coast institutions on the forensic floor.

Political duties of citizenship and the needed fundamental respect for law which is now at such a low ebb. A
special feature of the meeting was the report of Mr. Harry S. Warner, who had just returned from his eight
months’ tour of European universities as special commissioner from the I. P. A., in response to urgent requests from leaders
over there. “I come home,” he said, “tremendously impressed by three facts: First. The presence in most of the European
countries of at least a small group of very earnest and sincere students who are seeking in one way or
another to solve their alcohol problem. Second. The great eagerness of these people for definite, reliable information, actual facts, about
American prohibition, the factors back of it and the actual results. Because of widespread liquor propaganda they are now receiving
a tremendous volume of false and doctored reports proving the failure of American prohibition. Third. That we in America have
a strategic opportunity right now to serve the world by sympathetic aid and cooperation with our fellow students in Europe
who are with us in this great cause.” Upon his return, Mr. Warner takes up again the work of General
Secretary which he had had for twenty years, and Mr. Mark R. Shaw, who has been serving in that capacity
during his absence, will continue as Associate General Secretary.

CHICAGO MAN TO DELIVER MCNAIR LECTURES AT CAROLINA

Letz Quartet Makes Great Hit With Students.

Chapel Hill, Feb. 20—The Letz Quartet, an organization of national repute in the world of music, performed here Tuesday evening,
February 15th. They tendered selections from some of the world’s most eminent composers and played in a very skillful and
attractive way. The quartet was secured through the efforts of the music department and the fortunate layover of a day
in Greensboro explains the enticement of such an aggregation to Chapel Hill. The hearty and abundant applause manifested by the
audience gave proof of the cordiality with which the concert was received.

The McNair Lectures, provided for in a University fund and devoted to the discussion of the scientific religious clash, were
delivered by Prof. Paul Shorey, one of the foremost classical scholars of America and a member of the faculty of
the University of Chicago. The lectures, which are delivered every winter by some close student of the subject, dealt this
year with the specific subject, “Plato’s Relation to the Religious Problem.” There were three lectures in the group, beginning Friday,
the 18th, and extending through today. The daily subjects were: Friday, “Plato and the Irreligion of Pseudo-Science;” Saturday, “Plato and
Natural Theology,” and Sunday as a final lecture, “Plato and Ethical Religion.”

The Carolina Glee Club has invaded eastern North Carolina, carrying a company of 25 men. They will play in Wilson,
Rocky Mount, Washington, Tarboro, New Bern, and will return to the Hill the 26th.

PLATEMAKERS FOR THE DAVIDSONIAN

ALEX TAYLOR & CO.
The Macamac Company Agents
The Hoover & Smith Co.
OFFICIAL FRATERNITY and COLLEGE JEWELERS
615 Chestnut Street
Philadelphia, Penna.
WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY
Full Line of Pennants
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.
THE COMMISSARY

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JANE MARTIN, Manager
