*THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 15, 1921.*

We still have two more cracks at N. C. State and in each of these games the Wildcat pill-tossers will be out for revenge.

—Wildcats—

Buck Currie clouted one in Charlotte that looked good for two hassocks, but the speedy N. C. State center fielder pulled it down.

—Wake Forest—Monday—

The tennis team leaves tomorrow to take on Lenoir College at Hickory. Under the tutelage of Tom Spence, one of last year's stars at the game, both the singles and doubles teams show marked improvement.

—Elon—Tuesday—

Last Friday most of the Red and Black ball club journeyed down to the Queen City to see the Athletics and the Phillies play. According to some of the witnesses of that game, the Major League players aren’t in our class.

—We Want 'Em Both—

Last week was a busy time on the collegiate diamonds of the Carolinas, there being played about 20 games. Below are some of the results:

University of N. C. 4, Maryland 1.
University of N. C. 3, Florida 1.
University of N. C. 4, Wake Forest 3.
N. C. State 4, Elon 6.
N. C. State 5, Maryland 5 (10 innings).
N. C. State 3, Davidson 0.
Wake Forest 12, Wofford 3.
Wake Forest 1, N. C. State 0.
Trinity 8, Wofford 1.
Trinity 6, Florida 2.
Trinity 3, Maryland 2.
Auburn 12, Clemson 1.
Georgia 8, Furman 5.
Cornell 2, 4; Virginia 1, 3.

—Wildcats—

This is the forerunner of the announcement of a contest to provide a real Davidson yell. The lack of such a yell is self-evident and any man who knows a good yell or can think up one that has pep and punch behind it will be doing the college, and especially the athletic teams, a real service. The athletic department of The Davidsonian is going to offer a suitable prize for such a yell in order to add a further incentive for its production. See this column next week for a more detailed announcement but in the meantime get busy.

—Go Get 'Em Wildcats—

That Murray of N. C. State is good cannot be doubted. At the end of the present season, he is to go to the Yankees for a try-out in big time.

—Wildcats—

Georgia University has an enviable record in baseball this year. So far they have played 12 games, winning 11 and tying one. They have met the most formidable teams in the South and will have a good claim for the S. I. A. A. championship.

—Back the Team—

The following is the schedule of collegiate baseball for the coming week in the Carolinas and neighboring states.

April 15th:
South Carolina vs. Wofford at Columbia.
Clemson vs. Newberry at Clemson.

April 16th:
N. C. State vs. Guilford at Greensboro.
W. and L. vs. Johns Hopkins at Baltimore.
Wofford vs. Newberry at Spartanburg.

April 18th:
Davidson vs. Wake Forest at Davidson.

April 19th:
Davidson vs. Elon at Davidson.

April 20th:
Trinity vs. N. C. State at Durham.
Wake Forest vs. Wofford at Spartanburg.

April 21st:
University of N. C. vs. Guilford at Chapel Hill.

H. M. Askew, 1900, one of the officials of the Southern Bell Telephone Company, Atlanta, Ga., was on the hill last week. Mr. Askew is secretary and treasurer of the Atlanta Alumni Association. One of the first things Mr. Askew wanted to know was: “When does Davidson play Tech?” He said that the Atlanta boys are planning to give the Davidson team a banquet. Mr. Askew is of the opinion that there is scarcely any other team that Tech prefers playing more than Davidson.

- Athletic News -

Wildcats Battle Elon to 11-Inning Draw, 4-4

Crawford Sends Game Into Extra Innings With Three-Base Clout—Miley Pitches Superbly

Elon College, April 11—With the score standing four to two in favor of Elon in the ninth inning, Crawford, of Davidson, drove the ball into right field for a three-bagger, scoring two men ahead of him, and sending the game into extra innings. Darkness at the end of the eleventh frame ended the contest with the score still tied, four to four.

The Elon-Davidson game on Comer Field today was the best exhibition of baseball yet witnessed by the Elon fans this season. Snappy plays lent interest from beginning to end. Each team used two pitchers during the game. Brown, of Elon, again drove the pill far above centerfield for a circuit of the bases.

Davidson tallied first in the initial frame. Hodgin, first up, was safe on Johnson’s error, advanced to third by Cassell’s sacrifice, and crossed the rubber on Brown's infield hit.

Elon went the Presbyterians one better in their half of the first inning, counting twice. Brown was safe on Cassell’s error, and advanced to third on Cheek’s two-base hit. Clark followed with a hit to left field, scoring Brown and Cheek.

A. & E. WINS (Continued from page 1)

of the scratch variety, Zackary beating out both of these. Norwood's circuit wallop in the sixth was their first clean hit. It was also the first time that State had succeeded in getting the ball out of the infield.

Zackary opened the contest by beating out a hit and he continued on to second on a sacrifice. But he was left stranded there when the next three men went out in order. He reached second in the same way in the sixth. But this time Norwood came through with a line drive over short. Cassell jumped but couldn't reach it. Shepard almost had it but it took a bad bound and went on its way rejoicing. So did Norwood who arrived at the home dish just before the ball.

State's last run was, like the others, of the lucky variety. Costelloe drove a high fly to left that Hodgin seemed ready to absorb; but the wind got a chance at the ball before Billy did, so Billy didn’t have a chance at all. The ball finally came to rest just inside the foul line. Costelloe drew up at second but galloped to the third post when Hodgin threw wild to third. Murray hit one down the third base line and Costelloe counted.

Davidson has two more chances at State this year and each Wildcat is out for some of that sweet revenge. Saturday’s game was a hard one to lose and the next two may be hard to win; but the Cats fight best when the odds are against them. GO GET ’EM WILDCATS.

Box score:

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Hodgin, lf 4 0 0 0 0 1
Cassell, ss 4 0 0 0 0 1
Brown, rf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Crawford, 1b 4 0 0 0 0 0
Shepard, cf 2 0 0 0 0 0
Wrenn, c 3 0 0 0 0 0
Johnson, 3b 3 0 0 0 0 1
Ratchford, 2b 3 0 0 0 0 0
Currie, p 4 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 27 0 0 0 0 3

State AB R H PO A E
Zackary, 1b 4 1 1 0 0 0
Kirkpatrick, rf 1 0 0 0 0 0
Norwood, cf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Johnson, 3b 4 0 0 0 0 0
Costelloe, lf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Redfern, ss 4 0 0 0 0 0
Murray, p 4 0 0 0 0 0
Blue, 2b 2 0 0 0 0 0
Carson, c 2 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 29 3 3 0 0 0

Summary: Stolen bases—Brown, Kirkpatrick. Sacrifice hits—Kirkpatrick 2. Two-base hit—Costelloe. Home run—Norwood. Bases on balls—off Currie 2. Struck out—by Murray 10, by Currie 3. Time of game—1:35. Umpires—Kolseth and Earl.

Brown's homer for Elon came in the third with two down and the bases empty. Miley, for Davidson, relieved Shepard on the mound at the beginning of the fourth, and though Elon threatened to score in this inning, they were finally held. Davidson's second tally came in the fifth, when Ratchford singled, was advanced to third by Andrews’ wild pitch, and Brown later drawing a pass filled the bases. Crawford was then handed a walk and forced Ratchford in for a run. Perry relieved Andrews at the delivery station at this point.Juncture of the inning, making Sheppard hit an easy grounder which retired the side without further scoring. Elon came back with a lone score in their part of the fifth. Perry hit safe, and Newman was hit by a pitched ball. Perry made a start for third, the ball being relayed via second and heaved wild from that station, Perry coming home. Ratchford, of Davidson, was placed on second in the ninth by Brown's error. Currie, hitting for Hodgin, advanced him to third, but he was cut off there. Then Crawford clouted his three-bagger, evening up the score. The tenth and eleventh frames saw the batters for both sides go down in one, two, three order, and darkness ended the game.

Box score:

DAVIDSON.
abr hpoa e
Hodgin, lf 2 2 2 4 1
Currie, lf 2 0 0 0 0
Cassell, ss 5 1 1 2 5 2
Brown, rf 5 1 2 1 0 0
Crawford, 1b 4 0 1 16 0 0
Sheppard, p-cf 5 0 0 0 2 0
Wrenn, c 5 0 1 13 4 0
Johnson, 3b 5 0 0 0 3 0
Freeman, cf 1 0 0 0 0 0
Ratchford, 2b 5 1 1 1 3 0
Miley, p 3 0 2 0 3 1
Totals 44 4 9 33 21 3

ELON.
abr hpoa e
Newman, 1b 4 0 1 17 0 0
Brown, cf 4 2 1 3 0 1
Cheek, 3b 5 1 3 0 4 0
Clark, lf 2 0 0 0 0 0
Marlette, ss 5 0 2 3 6 0
Johnson, 2b 5 0 9 2 5 1
Underwood, c 4 0 9 5 0 0
Albritton, rf 4 0 0 1 0 0
Andrews, p 1 0 0 0 2 0
Perry, p 3 1 0 0 2 0
Totals 40 4 8 33 19 2

Score by innings:
Elon 201 010 000 00—4
Davidson 100 010 002 00—4

Summary—Three-base hit: Crawford; home run: Brown; sacrifice hits: Brown, Cassell; struck out: by Andrews 1, by Sheppard 2, by Miley 7, by Perry 2; base on balls: off Andrews 2, Perry 1, Sheppard 1; passed ball: Wrenn; hit by pitcher: Miley 1 (Newman); umpire: Henderson.

STUDENTS URGED TO ATTEND R. O. T. C. SUMMER CAMP.

It is hoped by the officers of the R. O. T. C. unit that a large number of men, who have not yet signified their intention to attend the summer camp, will sign up in the near future. At the present time there are over 50 men signed up. If a large number of Davidson men attend the camp, it is probable that a platoon of Davidson men can be formed. All kinds of teams are to be organized in the camp, and it would boost and advertise Davidson to have a good representation at the camp.

EU SOCIETY.

The election of officers for the fall term of 1921 will be held at the Eumenean meeting Saturday night. At this time the Valedictorian and Respondent for the Commencement exercises will also be chosen.

PHI SOCIETY.

April 14—Regular Debate
Affirmative:
G. M. Hodgin
W. G. Houck
Negative:
J. W. Baldwin
J. L. Parke
W. G. Johnson

Extemporaneous Debate
W. K. McCain
W. M. McLeod

Declamation
J. P. Booth

Oration
S. M. Query

The meeting of the Phi Society last Thursday night was both lively and interesting, especially in the extemporaneous part of the program. In the regular debate the subject was: “Resolved that the United States should adopt President Harding's plan of making a separate peace with Germany.” Debating this query were Morton and Robinson for the affirmative, and McLeod and Johnson for the negative. The affirmative based its arguments on the following points: First, that peace is more profitable to us than war; second, that we owe our allies no moral obligation; and third, that we have nothing to lose and all to gain by making peace at once. The negative opposed this proposition on the ground that we have a moral obligation to France which must not be broken; because the whole country won't back up Congress in making a separate peace; because we would lose our prestige among the present world powers. The decision of the judges was unanimous for the negative.

The critic announced the query for the Extemporaneous Debate: “Resolved, that the boarding houses at Davidson should serve breakfast to students in bed.” Taylor and Neal for the affirmative gave glowing pictures of the benefits and comforts which such a system would afford. But Hill and McKeithan showed very conclusively that this would be detrimental morally, physically, and financially. These arguments won the unanimous decision for the negative. J. W. Baldwin closed the literary program by a declamation, “Mother and All She Means to the World.”

Gloves at your fl & W. Fourth St. Anything you want in baseball gloves and bats. Our gloves run from $2.50 to $12. Hundreds of bats at from 90 cents to $3.50 each. Give us CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co. EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN (Just off Tryon)

DAVIDSON DEBATING TEAM MEETS WAKE FOREST FRIDAY

Davidson’s debating team left today for Raleigh where they will engage in a debate with the team from Wake Forest on the evening of April 15th in the auditorium of Meredith College. The question that is to be debated upon is: “Resolved, That the United States should cancel all war loans which our allies owe us.” The men who will represent Davidson on the affirmative side of the argument are Rolston Bitzer and W. A. Gamble as principals, with P. D. Miller as alternate. In the debate 50 minutes will be given each side. This will be divided up so as to give each debater not more than 20 minutes for his main speech and not more than seven minutes for his rebuttal. Davidson has debated Wake Forest three times, in 1910, 1911, and 1914, winning the first debate, losing the second, and winning the third. It is reported that Wake Forest has an excellent team this year but the representatives from Davidson left confident that they would win out in the forensic struggle. This makes the second intercollegiate debate that Davidson has taken part in this year, winning easily the first one, which was held here last fall with Randolph-Macon. On the 29th of this month another team from Davidson, composed of J. M. Dunlap and A. P. Ormand, with L. A. Taylor as alternate will journey to Spartanburg to encounter Mercer College in a debate there.

GOLF TOURNAMENT NEXT WEEK ON LOCAL COURSE

The Davidson golf course will be the scene of much excitement next Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, for the Spring Golf Tournament begins then. All pill-swatters and would-be-golf hounds will enlist in the ranks, from which will be chosen a representative team for the college. Several matches are to be played on the Hill this Spring and everyone is urged to come out and try his luck and skill, for the four winning the tournament will compose the team. Last Saturday Drs. McConnell and Arbuckle, Prof. Wood and Houston White went to Salisbury where they succeeded in tying the match, one team winning and the other being defeated. However, they succeeded in showing them we are still awake and alive. The winning team was composed of Dr. J. M. McConnell and Houston White. They defeated a team composed of the Salisbury Club champion and a professional.

Phone 9248