Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 2, 1921.

White’s Meat Market
Johnson’s Barber Shop

THE PEANUT PARCHER

F. K. Toney, Left Guard.
Frank was a bulwark in the Junior defense, holding his man scoreless in one game and playing a steady and consistent game. His teamwork was marked and his spirit always prevailed.

W. E. Covington, Right Guard.
As floor guard “High” served his squad well. Not only did he put up a good game on the defense but his accuracy in finding the basket greatly augmented the score of his teammates on more than one occasion.

RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor
CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this Historic Landmark
Army Shoes Dress Shoes and Tennis Shoes
We also carry a good line of FURNISHINGS

JAKE MARTIN, Manager
Knox & Barnette

THANKSGIVING DINNERS
Many a “Turk” lost the “key” to its gobble just as it was about to give thanks for one bright sunny morning the Christian’s sword in the form of an axe brought destruction to these Ottomites. When the peace conference was called, not to the surprise of any, he was given the place of honor, he was placed in the center of the assembly room surrounded by the fruits and grains of the other conquered nations such as Greece and the Duchy of Cranberry.

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district
Thoroughly modern and up-to-date
Where Courtesy and Service is the motto
Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte

FIVE CENTS

---

Note: The text has been cleaned up for readability while preserving the original meaning and punctuation.Some of the boys who ventured back in the building after she was very nearly gone were able to escape. When he woke, his bill was over four dollars. He would nod his head too often.

Davidson certainly a treat and enjoyed by all.

Pat McGeachy asked the "Peanut Parcher" to announce that he saved a suitcase and a pair of pajamas but has been unable to locate his cape on the Wheatstone bridge, this feeble manner endeavoring to show their appreciation.

Frank Gretson, Mgr.

(Continued from page 3)

Sam Story rushed into the physics laboratory and was able to save the toothbrush away in search of something to fill the aching void.

How the time was spent by the boys except for watching the game would be almost impossible to say. Suffice it to remark that the hours soon flew past and the hour of nine had arrived. The return trip was rather uneventful, most of the fellows choosing to get in a little sleep. And soon all were back at the starting point. Our team had been beaten, but those who saw it fight had only a higher regard for it, rather than feeling downhearted over the loss of the game.

Everything for QUALITY—nothing for show. THAT’S OUR IDEA in making CAMELS—the Quality Cigarette. Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! It’s the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes fresh and full-flavored for your taste.

B. L. Team escaped from Chambers by swimming out in the waves. But Gamble escaped by means of the alternating current. Thus he dodged all obstacles in his way.

Knox—Why did Tally run out with only one shoe?
Bascom—"He got the right one."

WHO’S WHO ON JUNIORS’ FIGHTING BASKET MEN

G. W. Mauze, Captain, Center.
It was largely due to this member of the Junior Quintette that the class championship now rests in the hands of his classmates. George is one of the best defensive centers that has been seen in Davidson class basketball in years, and he justly earned the rank of all-class center.

R. C. Brake, Right Forward.
In more than one game Pete was the center of attraction, making nigh impossible shots from all parts of the floor. He is a valuable asset to his team and too much credit cannot be awarded him for his service during the class series.

E. E. Houghton, Left Forward.
Although this is the first year that Edgar has entered into the spirit of class basketball, he played a spectacular game. His bank shots, even under the handicap of close guarding, were remarkable.

How old would Crown Prince be if he were 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighed 200 lbs?

Why does “Pete” Brake?

Silence, please, while Slink Black chews the weeds.

Can you call a mail carrier’s uniform a suit of mail?

1922 Calendars are Here. We will Canvass your Room this Week and Next. The Right Christmas Present for the Home Folks.

McKEITHEN & SORRELLS

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N. C.