THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

THE PEANUT PARCHER
With Apologies to Longfellow’s Paul Revere.

Listen, fellows, and I'll tell to you
Of the cold, hard ride of the seventy-two.
It happened on a Friday night in November,
A date all who were there will long remember.

When they started out there were eighty and more,
After a six-mile walk some were tired and sore.
As they lay by the road, side by side,
Moans and groans were heard far and wide.

As they lay there shivering, suddenly appeared a light,
And the “Prince Albert Special” hove into sight.
Of the eighty and more who wanted to ride
Twelve weary souls failed, and loud were their sighs.

In one empty box car about thirty-five sat,
They sat quiet, and shivered, some chewed and spat,
Through cinders, and cold, and the whistle’s screech,
They waited restless ‘til Barber’s was reached.

They stumbled around and found their way
To the cars that would put ’em in Winston next day.
An open box car was easily found,
And sixty-eight crowded in and around.

After a two hours’ wait on the hard, knotty floor,
In the old box car which was minus a door,
The train started on puffing away,
And they landed in Winston at the break of day.

All afternoon on the left and the right,
This was heard, “I’ll take the ‘special’ home tonight.”
So ends the tale of the “Seventy-two,”
And the long cold ride I said I'd tell you.

On the Glee Club Trip.
Bob—Well, boys, this is Hamlet.”
Fresh—I wonder if I can get an egg omelette here?

At the Special Saturday Night.
“Say, Speedy, why didn’t you go to Winston today?”
Speedy—“I am financially embarrassed.”

A Monthly Test.
Professor, after putting up the monthly examination questions, asked:
“Now, gentlemen, do any of these questions bother you?”
Soph—“No, sir, Doctor, but the answers do.”

“This old world we are living in
Is mighty hard to beat.
There’s a thorn in every rose,
But ain’t the roses sweet.”

Fresh Moomaw asked a cop at the Winston game,
“Why didn’t they turn on the heat?”

The Crown Prince, he is awful thin,
In a contest with Slim Jim he would surely win.
His legs are so long
That for half a song
He could wrap around forty-one men.

The Song of Six Pence.
I dreamed a dream and then awoke.
I laughed because 'twas funny:
I dreamed that I had written home
And hadn’t asked for money.

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this line
Army Shoes, Dress Shoes, and Tennis Shoes
We also have a line of Knox & Barnette

Ask P. D. Miller about the schedule of trains. He never gets them mixed.

Just the Reason.
Snag Bailey doesn’t use tobacco because if he buys it, it costs too much.
And if he bums it he fills his pipe so full it won’t draw.

If the dogs barked at night would the Chesapeake bay?

What has become of the old-fashioned girl who used to write her friend at Davidson every now and then?

One of the boys at Winston wanted to know where all that cold wind was last July.

Here’s to the land of the long-leaf pine,
Where the wind doth blow, and the moon shine.
—Home Brew.

McAlpine wanted to know where the Pullman porter was on the “Prince Albert Special.” He wanted his bed made up.

In Bug Lab.
Slink—What’s that you cut off, a grasshopper’s jumping leg?
McGukin—No, it’s a crowbar a grasshopper carries along with him so he can move box cars so he won’t have
to jump over them.

Knox, after settling his bill at a local shop, said to the owner, “Well, I will be back in the
morning to get the deeds and titles to your place.”

This Week's Prize Bone.
Bevo Davis wired ahead to Barber's Junction for reservations on the Prince Albert Special.

John K. Price thought he was in the swamps of Louisiana when he saw an alligator in the fountain at
the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

J. P. got lost in the revolving doors in the Zinzendorf and got on a cheap drunk before he could
get out.

The peanuts that have been turned out from the parcher recently have either been raw or over-cooked. Please help us
remedy this matter.

Jones (to Fresh McIver)—“Why didn’t you come up to my room when I told you?”
Fresh McIver—“I came at three sharp.”
Jones—“I told you to come at a quarter of twelve.”
Fresh McIver—“Well, isn’t three a quarter of twelve?”

D. Stetson Brogues
Sayit with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub

The Observer
B. R. Cates, Manager

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS DR. HOOD ON “MAIN STREET”

Unusual interest was shown in Sigma Upsilon’s meeting of Wednesday, the 9th. “Main Street,” one of America’s most famous modern
novels, was the subject of a very interesting paper by Dr. Fraser Hood. The psychology of the various characters of
the book was presented. The paper provoked an unusually long discussion on the part of the fraternity. The fraternity is
itself writing a book which it hopes to publish. At this meeting Ray Doubles read the second chapter, which proved
to be thrilling and well written. James Sprunt also gave an interesting book review. The fraternity hopes, with the aid
of the faculty and the Book Lover's Club, to get Vachel Lindsay, one of America’s leading present-day poets, to speak
to the student body in the spring.

D. Stetson Brogues

CONFIDENCE

Confidence has wrought many miracles. Together with faith, it forms the strongest thread in the fabric of civilization. Confidence in
God has healed the sick and given sight to the blind. Confidence in the engineer enables us to ride carefree
in railway trains. Confidence in our fellowmen makes possible philanthropic work, our great banking institutions, and our manufacturing enterprises. Confidence
in man works its wonders before our eyes every day. Without confidence and faith civilization would be impossible.

Confidence in the clothing dealer touches the college man perhaps as vitally as anything else. When we buy a suit,
hat, overcoat or pair of shoes it is very gratifying to know that we are dealing with a clothier who
stands back of his goods, for only a small percentage of us, from lack of experience, are able to detect
a flaw in clothing. Fifty years of honest dealing has won for Ed. Mellons the confidence and faith of thousands
of young men in the Carolinas. If you deal there you need not worry about the style or wearing quality
of your purchase. They stand back of every article they sell. They are enabled to do this by handling only
the Stein-Block, Hart, Schaffner and Marx, and Hickey-Freeman suits; Edwin Clapp and Thompson Bros. shoes; Knox and Stetson hats. Ed.
Mellons, largest men’s furnishings in the Carolinas, “On Trade Near Tryon.”

Dr. W. J. Martin returned Saturday from a business trip to New York and left again Monday for Jacksonville to
attend the meetings of the Florida Synod there this week.

Warren’s Service Barber Shop
Chamber Commerce Bldg.
W. 4th St.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
Charlotte, N.C.

ACADEMY VAUDEVILLE PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 18, 19

OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY

JESSE SUTHERLAND
A Unique Aquatic Novelty

THE BANJOYS
Don Stanley, Minnetta Lea, Madelyn Hale
“A Musical Marmalade”

THE COMEBACKS
Minstrels as They Were and as They Are

Del and GIBSON
“Just Vaudevillians”

MORACK SISTERS
Variety Girls De Luxe

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35 to $45, the new 4-button sack model in
novelty tweeds and ideal HATS, FURNISHINGS, SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN Co.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

SUCCESS
Many college men are going into Life Insurance and are leading in Southern States territory. The Multiple line of this
Company will enable you to get fitted into the line of work to which you will be best suited. Write
us,
Southern Life and Trust Company
HOME OFFICE GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McAlister, President
Arthur Watt, Secretary
H. B. Gunter, Third Vice-President and Agency Manager
Capital $1,000,000.00
A going concern and
