THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1921.

"THE HOUSE OF SERVICE"
Double Guarantee, Free Trial, Liberal Selling Plan, Guide for Sale, Prices and Helpful Terms.

Just a word concerning this department. It is the desire of the Davidsonian to fill this column with nothing but "Campus Personals." We want to keep exchange jokes entirely out if possible, but the lack of material makes it necessary to fill in sometimes. In this connection, we hope that the students will co-operate with us and turn in all suitable "Peanut Parcher dope" to the Campus Editor. Thanks.

Some Elections.
Among other officers elected in the recent Junior class voting were:
Janitor—"Bugs" Robinson.
Mascot—"Tiny" McAlpine.
Chief Cook—"Wilkes" Booth.
Golf Caddy—"Corp" Hughes.

When requested if plurality would be used in the election, one of the wise members of this distinguished class—namely "Slick" Cornelson—immediately inquired what the gentleman’s initials were. Hard luck George.

The Student Council was farsighted enough to recommend an alternate among the number of candidates put up for next year's Student Council. Must have anticipated some drunks in those who were to be elected.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Fresh Luckie receives the following card among his morning’s mail last Monday:
Pleasant Hills, Ala.
Sick?——Sympathy.
Dead?——Regrets.
Engaged?——Congratulations.
Married?——Best Wishes.
If none of these, why don’t you write?
Aw-gwan Luckie, why don’t you write to the poor, lonely girl.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Correspondence.
Tuller puts out a bid to commencement, and in return receives a wedding announcement from the lady. Sad-but-true,—Charlie.

Spring.
P. C.-Henderson writes home to get permission to go barefooted.

A Good Lawyer.
"Bobbie" Long—Gosh, but I slept good last night.
Charlotte's Erwin, M.—You ought to,—you lie well.

Extra! Extra!
Fresh Smith—What science do you take?
Fresh Yonan—Military Science.

With the Wildcats—North Carolina Trip.
Unable to put the lights out in his lower berth on the Pullman, Sim Wrenn hangs his socks over the bulb. Effective extinguisher—?

Shepard leaves his shoes on outside of berth and porter shines them up during the night. Next morning Shep hunts all over the car in an effort to recognize his understanding. Don't you ever shine 'em up Shep?

Newsbutcher makes great day’s sale of book entitled "A Hundred Ways to Win a Kiss." Eris Cassell buys half a dozen.

Manager Jim Boulware has a hard time buying newspapers on ice.

Coach—Why didn’t you hold that runner on third.
Ratch—I couldn’t Coach, a bug flew in my eye and I couldn’t tell him.

Freeman gets beaned on the dome for free transportation to first. He immediately gets the swell-head over his hit.

Last but not least, Cop Johnson got the ends of the Pullman mixed up. Horrors!

The Selwyn Hotel
FIRE PROOF
Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building.
H.C. Lareelere, Prop.

Ed Pinaud.
Tubby Woolfolk—Do you know Hazel?
John Gaston—Which-Hazel?
Tubby—Hazel-Nut.

A Track Man.
Professor—Please take your feet down Mr. Galloway, the class would like to see the problem.
J. K—Does this cigar offend you Knox?
Knox—No, I have worked in a livery stable for the last five years.

The Peanut Parcher

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President.R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S. C.

It slipped, it fell, it hit, and rolled,
It stumbled, it bounded, it skidded and strolled,
I looked, I sought, but my work was vain,
For I have lost my collar button again.

Style.

P. D. Miller told Gamble and Bitzer at the Yarborough in Raleigh that if he had a phone call they would find him down on the Vaseline floor reading.

VICTORY OVER CAROLINA

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

(Continued from page 2)

the contest. This diminutive second-sacker kept up the fast pace he set during the North Carolina trip. A free ticket and a long double to the left field fence was his contribution out of four trips to the plate. In the field his glove absorbed seven grounders and one fly. In the last five games he has clouted the pill for an average of .412 and fielded .970. Atta boy! Pee-Wee.

After two were gone in the second, Ratchford looked over four wide ones and swiped second when Morrison wasn’t looking. Freeman came through with a timely bingle to center and Ratchford counted. Jeannette had some trouble with his back and Freeman’s hit went between his legs. Freeman headed for home but Hunter flagged him down at the hot corner. Erwin ended the stanza by whiffing.

Davidson's fast tally came after two big ones were gone in the ninth. Barnette, pinch hitting for Freeman, lashed a savage double to left. Currie did what pitchers aren’t supposed to do and hit to right, and Barnette read the welcome sign on home plate. Billy Hodgin ended it by bouncing to Johnson.

The Baptist’s four tallies came in one big cluster in the third. Cassell lost Morrison's grounder, Johnston walked and Stringfield came up. Cassell’s rival for All-State honors “put his weight” against one of Buck’s benders and dented a slat in the center field fence for three bases. Jeannette grounded out to Erwin and Stringfield stuck to third. Ellis brought him in with a hit to left and pilfered the keystone sack. Duncan beat out his second infield hit. On an attempt at a double steal, Wrenn’s throw to Cassell got the fast Duncan yards off second. But Jake aimed his return at the moon (and nearly hit it) and Ellis’ spikes dented the rubber.

CAMP SAPPH
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, Chapel Hill, N. C.
J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director Davidson, N. C. Director

A COMPLETE LINE OF SPRING CLOTHES
Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

Davidson
abr hpoa e
Hodgin, lf 4 0 0 2 1 0
Brown, rf 3 0 0 0 0 0
Cassell, ss 4 0 0 3 3 2
Crawford, 1b 3 9 0 1 4 0 0
Wrenn, c 4 0 0 4 2 0
Ratchford, 2b 3 1 1 3 1 0
Freeman, cf 3 0 1 0 3 1
Erwin, 3b 3 0 0 0 1 0
Currie, p 4 1 0 3 0
Miley, x 1 0 0 0 0 0
Barnette, xx 1 1 0 0 0 0
Totals 33 2 4 27 17 3

Wake Forest
abr hpoa e
Stringfield, ss 4 1 1 1 0 0
Jeannette, cf 4 0 0 2 0 1
Ellis, 2b 4 1 1 1 0 0
Duncan, 1b 4 0 2 1 1 0 0
Johnston, lf 3 0 2 2 0 0
Ragsdale, rf 4 0 1 2 0 0
Kesler, 3b 4 0 0 1 0 0
Morrison, c 4 1 0 7 1 0
Johnson, p 3 1 0 3 0
Totals 34 4 8 27 10 3

Thursday, Friday and Saturday, April 21st, 22nd and 23rd

OVERTURE
Academy Orchestra
Direction Charles H. Shonlan

PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY

BETH CHALLIS AND EDDIE LAMBERT
In “THERE YOU ARE”

HENRY GARLAND
Who Sings and Talks

CHARLES OLCOTT AND MARY ANN
Attraction Extraordinary. Mr. Olcott's Original Travesty, “A Comical Opera in Ten Minutes”

NEIL AND O'BRIEN
A Dark Town Wedding

PATTERSON TRIO
In Aerial Novelty

Score by innings:
Davidson 010 000 001—2
Wake Forest 004 000 000—4

Summary: Two base hits—Johnston, Ratchford. Three base hits—Stringfield, Johnson. Sacrifice hit—Johnston. Stolen bases—Stringfield, Ellis, Hodgin, Ratchford. Earned runs—Wake Forest 2; Davidson 2. Left on bases—Wake Forest 5; Davidson 5. Struck out—by Currie 3; by Johnson 3. Base on balls—off Currie 1; off Johnson 4. Time—1 hour, 40 minutes. Umpire—Blackwell.