© 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12 noon Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: A. RICHARDS
Managing Editor: R. I. R.
Assignment Editor: A.
Social Editor: A.
Athletic Editor: A.
Literary Editor: A.
Alumni Editor: W. BR.
Publicity Editor: J. H. McKEITHEN
Exchange Editor:

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
S. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
W. Z.
T. M. MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
CALHOUN, M. P.
W. CUNNINGHAM, C. E.
T. AL.
ELLIOTT, W.
MAHOOD, D. L.
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, E.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL, Business Manager
E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD, Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
DOUBLES, Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department:
RUSSELL and C. D. TULLER
S. VAIN
B. C. HENDERSON, Asst. Circulation Managers
W. McCAIN
R. L. PRICK

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

'Tis a wise freshman that knows his own fresh cap.

Every man in the student body should be on hand to help give the team a good send-off when it
leaves to invade the Old Dominion tomorrow night. Don’t be a slacker.

If an early start is any sign of success, this year’s Quips and Cranks should be a world-beater. The editors
have started early and the photographic work has been practically completed almost before we realized that college had opened.

The fact that there have been more than forty members of the freshman class to volunteer as Davidsonian reporters speaks
well for the spirit of that class.

The change of time for Bible classes from Sunday morning until Wednesday night seems to be a welcome one, and
there is no good reason why every man in college should not support the “Y” by attending one.

Patronize our advertisers.

THE COLLEGE BOY’S JOB

For what purpose does a boy go to one of our higher institutions of learning? This is a question which
would seem to be easy of solution, and most of us would readily answer that he goes to improve his
mind and prepare himself for success in later life by his studies there. Such an answer would undoubtedly be correct
as to the purpose for which a man should attend college, but a glance at the campuses of today would
cause serious doubt as to how many college students really entertain such a purpose.

The modern student seems to consider his books as a matter of secondary importance, which should occupy but little of
his time and thought. They are necessary evils, with which he must maintain a speaking acquaintance in order that by
hasty cramming he may squeeze by on his examinations, and in the course of four years win a diploma, but
which furnish him with no real cause for concern. The diploma is his sole object and the acquisition of any
learning in the process of obtaining it matters little. His only fear is that his studies may somehow interfere with
his enjoyment of college life.

The blame for this attitude toward his work may be at least partially attributed to the changes which have taken
place in college life within the last twenty years. New activities have come to occupy a large share in the
work of the student. Intercollegiate athletics, work on the student publications, Y. M. C. A. activities, and social organizations furnish
good and seemingly necessary reasons for neglecting his scholastic work. And surely no one would deny the value of these
activities. Each has a peculiar merit of its own and contributes somewhat to the making of a better and abler
man, yet each if indulged in to excess may prove of far greater harm than benefit. The problem is to
assign to each one of them its proper place in college life and proper share of the student’s time.

No open-minded person would urge that a boy bind himself down to a ceaseless grind of study. To do so
would serve only to produce a mind developed out of all proportion to the physical being and the social instincts.
The fact remains, however, that studies should take precedence over all other college activities. The benefits derived from the latter
are many, but they are not such as can be had only at college. Life offers other opportunities equally advantageous
for experience in these lines, but at no other time will such an opportunity come for the study of books
as is found in college. It is for this pursuit of learning that the colleges were established and this pursuit
constitutes the real task of the college boy.

The college boy who neglects his studies for other affairs can be considered as nothing less than dishonest—dishonest to his
parents in that he is spending their money for nothing; to his country in that he is losing an opportunity
for making himself a more useful citizen; and to himself in that he is taking four of what should be
the most valuable years of his life and literally throwing them away.

Open Forum

IN RE: LITERARY SOCIETIES

Within the last two weeks there has been considerable discussion as to the desirability of establishing one or more new
literary societies at Davidson. In some quarters the discussion has gone so far that the proponents of one of the
new societies have selected a name for their young hopeful. The advocates of the new idea have marshalled a considerable
array of facts to support them in their contention; facts that are apparent to every observant man on the hill.
A brief summary of these facts would be informing and for brevity’s sake will list them: (1) That the present
societies are unwieldy; (2) That there is a lamentable lack of competition between the existing societies; and (3) That the
lack of real competition for new men acts as a blighting influence from the very start, i.e., if you are
from Georgia and want to belong to a literary society, you should join the Eumenean, you have no choice.

It is a lamentable fact, however, that having proceeded so admirably to a certain point, the advocates of the new
societies are at a loss as to how to proceed; torn between conflicting councils of surprising multiplicity and variation, they
are standing still. To a careful and impartial observer there are only two courses of action open; either new societies
in fact as well as in name, or co-ordinate branches or sections of the existing societies, must be established. The
idea of “associated” or “friendly” societies is at once inconsistent and abhorrent.

To proceed with a discussion of the first course of action as outlined above. It is appealing—to some. To it
will bring the honor of being remembered as among the founders of a new society; to others—or should we say
from others—it will take away the honor of belonging to one of the historic societies, but more of that anon.
These same men are inconsistent, however, on one point: they insist on retaining some connection with the mother society; which
view is inconsistent with their ultimate intentions and abhorrent to the existent societies. It would seem that the only honorable
and at the same time consistent course would be one somewhat as outlined below. In brief: Such as think there
is need of societies new in name to withdraw from the old societies, form new societies, that would be independent
of all existing societies and all geographical lines, vote themselves such credits as they see fit and then proceed to
compete with the old societies in all inter-society competitions. If they do not want to hold to the old names
their endeavor becomes at once personal and in no way an affair of the now existent societies; wherefore the old
societies should not only proceed to put a stop to seditious discussion within their halls but should proceed without delay
along some such lines as are laid down in the next paragraph.

To proceed with a discussion of the second and honorable course of action, the two societies now existent here date
from the founding of the college. Tradition they have and an honorable history. To them, in no slight degree, clings
that air of romance that we are wont to associate with the historic.‘past’ and that we sincerely revere in our
more philosophical moments; in short ‘soul,’ something that it takes years to acquire and is never acquired by many similar
institutions. Back in the homes of many of their present members hang yellowed parchments that declare that some father or
grandfather or uncle was a graduate of the Eume- can or the Philanthropic. Perhaps it does not always blaze with
a consuming passion, but the desire is there in every breast to emulate their forbears. The present societies owe a
sacred debt to these men and to those that will come after them to enable them to accomplish that end.
There is only one way in which they can discharge that obligation and that is by the establishment of co-ordinate
sections or branches of the existent societies. The adoption of either of the above courses of action would vitally affect
the student body. It is the duty and at the same time the privilege of that body to use its
tongue and its pen.

G. Q. III.

D. W. Roberts, '21, and W. H. Miley, Jr., ’21, are members of the faculty in Westminster Preparatory School, near
Rutherfordton, N. C.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

STUDENTS’ BIBLE CLASSES HELD WEDNESDAY NIGHTS

This year Davidson has changed the hour of meeting of its Bible classes from Sunday morning to Wednesday night. On
this night at 9 o'clock the bell will ring and on every hall in school the students will gather for
a few minutes consecrated to the study of God’s Word and for discussions concerning the religious and moral problems that
confront every man in school, whether he be Freshman or Senior. Topics that vitally affect the spiritual growth and development
of all Davidson men and which all have to face daily will be treated in a Christian-like and practical way.

The change in the time of the meetings was largely due to the example set by Georgia Tech. Her Bible
classes are known all over the South for their high percentage of attendance and general efficiency, a large part of
which is attributed to the fact that their weekly meetings are held at a convenient time. Dr. J. L. Douglass
has taken charge of the teacher's class, composed of about 40 men, which meets just prior to the regular classes
on Wednesday evening. This fall the Book of Acts is to be studied, so every man has a text-book which
he is expected to use, and use diligently. We hear of the “Davidson Spirit” on the athletic field and in
other phases of college life, so let’s put some real life and vim in our Biblical study this year and
push Davidson to the forefront in Southern Bible class circles.

RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOLS HAVE GOOD OPENING ATTENDANCE

Local Christian Endeavor Welcomes the New Students.

The Y. M. C. A. Rural Sunday Schools started off with an unprecedented rush this year. According to the attendances
of the initial meetings the prospects are for one of the most successful years in their history at Davidson. These
Sunday Schools are run by the students under the supervision of the “Y” and any new men who have had
experience or wish to take part in Sunday School work may help by giving their names to any of the
superintendents named below. The attendance and number of teachers at the various Sunday Schools last Sunday follow:

School and Supt. Pupils. T’ch’rs.
Oak Grove—Cooper -------- 25 4
Mill Chapel—Mr. Jackson -- 40 6
Gorrell—Glank --------------- 63 7
Shearer—Mellwaine -------- 35 2
Caldwell—Patterson No Report.

The Christian Endeavor Society gave the college boys a very warm welcome when they held a social in the Y.
M. C. A. Gym on Tuesday night, September 12th. The new Endeavorers present were introduced, after which games were played.
Later in the evening delicious refreshments were served. About 35 persons were present.

THREE SHIFTS IN STAFF OF PAPER FOUND NECESSARY

Several shifts in the Davidsonian staff have taken place since the opening of school. Johnnie Curry, who resigned from his
position as business manager, now fills the chair of Peanut Parcher editor, while Ray Doubles, who originally held this latter
office, is now the circulation manager, and J. C. Wool holds the business manager's place. When Johnnie Curry found it
necessary for him to give up the handling of the business end of The Davidsonian, all connected with the paper
realized what a loss this meant to the publication. A man has been found, however, who promises to do great
things with the paper's finances. This is J. C. Wool, new business manager. The election of Ray Doubles to fill
the position of circulation manager, Wool’s former office, rendered the Peanut Parcher vacant, and as a result Johnnie Curry now
edits that department.

The motor car of today is a splendid example of scientific progress. And yet careless pedestrians are continually spoiling its
delicate machinery with small pieces of themselves—London Opinion.

OPENING VOLUNTEER BAND DEPUTATION SUCCESSFUL

Ted Jones and Bill Beck returned Monday morning from Derita, where they went on a deputation for the Volunteer Band.
They report that this was the best deputation they have ever made as well as being also the first to
go out this year. These men spoke to a hundred and fifty at Mallard Creek Sunday morning and a hundred
and twenty-five at Nevins, Sunday afternoon, returning to Mallard Creek that night to conduct a meeting of the young people.
Here the men suggested organizing a Christian Endeavor Society, which met with a hearty response, and it is planned to
do this in the near future. The deputations from the Volunteer Band have always found a hearty welcome everywhere, and
it is planned by the band to send out as many as possible this year.

T. M. LOWRY ELECTED NEW PRESIDENT

Everyone regrets the fact that Leonard Dick was unable to return to college this year. His absence is keenly felt
on the campus by all of the old men. Dick's failure to come back made vacant the office of president
of the student body. At a meeting of the student council the following men were nominated for this office: J.
C. Bailey, M. Richards, J. M. McFadden, and M. Lowry. At a meeting of the student body held on Wednesday
of last week these nominations were approved and the first ballot taken. In this first vote McFadden and Lowry received
an equal number of votes, necessitating a second ballot. In the second ballot Lowry received the majority of votes and
was thereby elected to the office of president of the student body. We are sure “Bishop” will make us an
excellent student body president, and it is hoped that every man on the hill will lend him their loyal support.

Owing to the fact that “Bishop” Lowry found it necessary to resign as president of the Senior class, in accepting
the office of president of the student body, the Seniors called a meeting for the purpose of electing someone to
succeed him. The following men were nominated for this office: W. I. Knox, Johnnie Currie, J. K. Price, W. M.
McLeod, and E. B. McGukin. The result of the first ballot gave McLeod and McGukin the highest number of votes.
A second ballot was taken on Monday morning, electing McGukin to this office. McGukin, or “Guke,” as he is known
to us, is a friend to everybody on the campus. His ready smile always drives away the blues, and we
are all glad to see this honor conferred upon him.

DELEGATION FROM DAVIDSON

(Continued from page 1)

except one night; ask Sam Stony, or a certain K. P., if he is still alive. Major Hearn, Captain Ellis
and Captain Wetherby were three of the most popular officers in the whole camp, and every Davidson man was proud
to say, he is from my college. But they were equally happy over the record made by their protegees. Along
military lines, Davidson ranged fourth in our area, and had one of the highest averages made. Living up to her
name, she had three men on the company baseball team; Neel, Hursey, and Mauze; besides McGukin who was our track
man, placing in the broad jump. In boxing, Roberts was one of the big stars of the camp. Every time
the general inspected barracks, the Davidson quarters in charge of Lowry were given highest honors. Because every fellow worked hard,
they made a record for all of the men in coming years to shoot at, and one which is going
to be hard to beat.

“God hath not promised
Skies ever blue,
Flower-strewn pathways
Always for you.
God hath not promised
Sun without rain,
Joy without sorrow,
Peace without pain.
But He hath promised
Strength from above,
Unfailing sympathy,
Undying love.”
—Author Unknown.
