THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

The Misses Lois and Clara Smith spent the holidays with their parents at Davidson. Mrs. Lawson visited her son, George Lawson, ‘24, during the weekend.

ANNUAL MEETING STATE Y. M. C. A. HELD AT CHARLOTTE

The annual meeting of the North Carolina Young Men’s Christian Association was held in Charlotte on Tuesday and Wednesday of this week. The delegates were composed of all collegiate Y. M. C. A. officials of the State, and about one hundred men were expected. Davidson was officially represented by J. P. Price, C. E. Cunningham, and C. R. Crawford, the new “Y” officers for the coming year; Secretary Chalmers was also present and filled a place on the program, speaking on “Mission Study in Relation to the ‘Y’ Work on the Campus.”

The theme of the conference was “Enlistment for Life,” and the thought embodied in it was forcefully presented to every person present. Some of the speakers at the meetings were:

Rev. Henry Grady Harden.
Fletcher S. Brockman, formerly head of the “Y” work in China.
Hon. Josephus Daniels.
Dr. E. C. Lindeman, Greensboro College for Women.
B. G. Alexander and E. G. Wilson, International Secretaries.
Walter M. Wood, General Secretary at Philadelphia.

The meetings were permeated with a powerful spirit of optimism and hope for the coming months, and the convention as a whole was a great success.

FOUR “Y” DEPUTATIONS CONDUCT MEETINGS

Four more deputations were sent out by the Volunteer Band last Sunday. Ted Jones and John Parks went to Paw Creek, and Flynn Long and E. L. Hollingsworth to Unionville. Dwight Chalmers made a missionary address before the Y. W. C. A. at Flora Macdonald, and of course, it goes without saying that the trip was a very pleasant one for him. Julian Price spent the weekend in the home of Dr. L. L. Moore, of Taylorsville, father of W. W. Moore, '22. He conducted both the morning and evening services in Dr. Moore’s church.

The results from the work of these deputations are very gratifying, and the men concerned are to be highly commended for this service they are rendering in the interest of the young people of this section of the State.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR CONVENTION

(Continued from page 1)

This conference followed the sectional conferences on Junior and Intermediate work. The Sunday evening session began at 6:15 o'clock. This was a model Christian Endeavor prayer meeting and was extremely helpful to all. First, the Scripture lesson, which was appropriate for Easter, was read by Mr. Wilson. After this, several prayers were offered by the different members, and short, appropriate speeches made concerning the Scripture lesson. Next, Mr. Evans asked for some “I wills,” to see whether the convention would really mean anything to the members after it had ended. Several promises were given by different ones. The meeting closed with a message from the District President, Rev. C. G. Lynch, of Charlotte.

The convention then took a short recess, after which the closing session was held. This mainly was a consecration service, conducted by Mr. Evans, who made an appealing address on consecrating one’s life to the work of the Master.

The following resolutions were read and adopted by the convention:

Whereas, we as delegates to the convention of the Southern District of North Carolina Christian Endeavor, have enjoyed a pleasant and helpful convention at Davidson these two days, March 26 and 27, 1921;

Resolved, That we express our thanks for the following particular courtesies and all the other efforts put forth for our pleasure and benefit:

To the ladies of the town for the supper and social hour Saturday evening;
To the Davidson Athletic Association for their complimentary admission to the baseball game Saturday;
To The Davidsonian for its convention issue;
To the Davidson College Y. M. C. A. for the use of its rooms and its cooperation as to meetings;
To the pastor of the convention church, Dr. C. M. Richards, and his congregation, for the use of the church, and to Dr. Richards personally for his helpful devotional services and convention sermon;
To Southern States Secretary, Mr. C. F. Evans, Field Secretary Wilson, State officers Rev. C. G. Lynch, Mr. G. M. Beaty, and Mrs. W. H. Howell, and to Rev. Daniel Iverson, for their helpful addresses and conferences;
To the local convention committee for the very excellent way in which they planned and executed the plans for the convention;
To the people of Davidson and Davidson College students for their hospitable entertainment.

Carey P. Lowrance, Chm.
(Miss) Emma Lippard.
W. Arnett Gamble, Jr.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS HAVE GOOD ATTENDANCE

In spite of the fact that a good many of the fellows were away last Sunday, the attendance at the various “Y” Sunday Schools was up to normal, as is shown by this report:

Pupils. Teachers.
Brawleys .. .. .. 45 5
Caldwell .. .. .. 60 5
Cornelius .. .. .. 76 6
Cowan's School .. 10 2
Mill .. .. .. 27 3
Oak Grove .. .. 23 4
Shearer .. .. .. 62 4
Total .. .. .. 303 20

Special services were conducted at the Caldwell school, the Rev. J.W. Moore, of the Japan Mission, being the speaker of the afternoon. The address was both helpful and inspiring in nature, and was greatly enjoyed by all present. Mr. Moore has a number of personal friends in the Caldwell community, and these especially were delighted to have him back with them again.

OMNIPOTENT OPULENCE
(Continued from page 1)

looked like that busted pipe out in Main street last year, or like the D. C. fire department in rabid action. The whole world smelled like one big garage. OIL! I repeat it, sirs, OIL?! And talk about luck—it came in the very ace of being off college property; but it wasn't. No, I should say it was safe on college land by a dozen feet or more. And it was just as the very private oil of a very select institution of learning should be: it was as refined as they make ‘em. Nothing crude about that stuff. Why, it was super-oil! It would knock the zip spots right out of your vest, or the pips out of a ten of spades, just as you pleased. Just splash a couple of drops of it on your Wizard stock certificate, and presto! you had a brand new Pierce-Arrow all your own, with a big shiny chauffeur tipping his cap and inquiring, “Which way now, sah?” Departed underwear buttons! That was some stuff!

The college engineer hurriedly constructed a huge dam just east of the Sabine Farm; and now the college has a lake of pure gas. And the gusher is still gushing strong at the rate of sixty billion barrels per day (except Sunday—it doesn't run on Sunday.) And there were so many sales to Mt. Mourn and Derita and Jew Elliot that the jack rolled in something terrible. It piled up worse than absences in the old days. But Chambers has been converted into an impromptu shekel depository; and we aren't so swamped with coin as we were at first. It is going to be some job to blow all the kale. However, the Expansion Committee of the Faculty has been in conference with the leading financiers of the campus; and the future begins to look luxurious.

First of all we must have song books in chapel, and new pink numbers on the seats, and an automatic notice reader that will eliminate all the bush announcements. Then we are going to have the Selwyn Hotel moved up and run as a dormitory, with Sunday breakfast in bed. The Academy Theatre will also have its place in our midst, and will put on extra fine productions absolutely free gratis. There will be a marble swimming pool large enough for boat racing. The Yale Bowl is to be reproduced in exact replica, and used as the home of all horseshoe tournaments. Finest imported Turkish cigarettes will be distributed wholesale at all “Y” movie events, and Myer-Davis will furnish tunes to fit the pictures. There will also be a grand conservatory, where all mandolin fiends may resort for their orgies, and thereby conserve the nerves and tempers of all sane, peace-loving persons. There will be new doors in Chambers, and boiling water on Third Floor Watts for all Aqua Club demonstrations. The entire faculty has gone loco over the prospect of impending opulence, for it is rumored that salaries will be at least a billion a month in the future. And all the students who do not cut any classes or go to sleep in church during a single term will get a Locomobile and a perpetual gas ticket free. Those who are lucky enough to graduate will receive a bonus of ten million dollars for every hour overtime they put in getting their dip; and the engraving on the dips will hereinafter be done by a process of radium etching. Every time you send one of your cotton shirts to the laundry you will get in return a silk one with real diamond buttons. Oh, we are all just tickled wiggleless over the prospects! It is all so sudden—and so superbly swell.

There are thousands, yea, millions of other uses to which we shall put our surplus profits. But the best, as ever, cometh last: verily it is retained for the place of most honorable mention. Never again shall men read these columns, and remark: “The Davidsonian is generaled upon a system of deficit financiering,” for its coffers are, and evermore shall be, full to the overflowing.

“Now that’s all a lie.” But what else can you expect on this, the First Day of April, when lies are the chief rule of life?

Miss Helen Gibbs’ music pupils gave a recital Monday night in the Civic League hall. After their performance, they were entertained by Mrs. Moore McConnell in honor of her nieces, the Misses Margaret and Elizabeth McConnell.

Miss Ruth Henderson and two friends, Misses Maria Elliott and Helen Henly, spent the weekend with Mrs. Henderson.

Mr. Snapshot Says:
KODAK DEVELOPING
For College Students Is Our Specialty
Lightning-like rapidity of service makes distance no disadvantage. Our prints represent the highest in photographic art. No extra charge for glossy.

Atlanta, Georgia
GOODHART-TOMPKINS Co.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE
DAVIDSON, NORTH CAROLINA
Thorough Courses, Well-Equipped Laboratories

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Union Theological Seminary
W. W. Moore, D.D., LL.D., President

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL-- NONE TOO LARGE
WE WANT YOUR ACCOUNT REGARDLESS OF ITS SIZE
THE COMMERCIAL NATIONAL BANK
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, Vice-President
P. B. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
W. S. LEE, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
W. E. HOLT, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER A $1,000,000.00

LIFE INSURANCE A PROFESSION
The Southern Life and Trust Company's Training School for Agents and multiple line of insurance provides the equipment necessary to real Success in life insurance salesmanship.
Our Motto: “The largest service to the largest number”
Write to the
SOUTHERN LIFE and TRUST COMPANY
HOME OFFICE—GREENSBORO, N. C.
CAPITAL—ONE MILLION DOLLARS