THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 3, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

Major General William A. Smith, '64, of Ansonville, N. C., has been recently appointed commander of the North Carolina division, United Confederate Veterans. He succeeds General James I. Metts, who died recently. He was appointed to this high office by General Julian S. Carr, commander of the Department of Northern Virginia, U. C. V. General Smith is an unreconstructed rebel and though he lost a leg at Malvern Hill, he has never had cause to regret being a Confederate soldier. As a boy of 18 he enlisted with the Anson Guards, at Wadesboro, in June, 1861, and served with distinguished gallantry in every battle until July 1, 1862. On that day Malvern Hill was assailed by the Fourteenth North Carolina regiment, which had never before met defeat. In that unavailing charge General Smith fell, severely wounded. Edmund F. Fenton, a private in the Anson Guards, picked up the desperately wounded youth and bore him to the rear. Careful nursing kept him alive, but left him a cripple for life.

Starting in the mercantile business at Ansonville, General Smith paid close attention to his work and succeeded in becoming prosperous in later years. His parents were wealthy and he was given the best education possible. He came to Davidson and was making fine progress in the Sophomore class when in April, 1861, he enrolled as a soldier of the South. After his splendid record in the war he set himself to do equally as well in peace. After realizing a handsome fortune from his mercantile business, he closed out his store and entered the larger field of manufacturing. He became president of the Yadkin Falls Manufacturing Company and of the Eldorado Cotton Mills, and president of the Carolina Construction Company. He is one of the board of managers of Thompson Orphanage, and for eleven years he has been a trustee of the University of the South at Sewanee. He ranks high in Masonic circles and is a noted public welfare worker. He has also compiled and edited a history of the Anson Guards, the company of which he was a member.

General Smith’s acceptance of the new honor is contained in his first order, as follows:
"Lieutenant General Julian S. Carr has promoted me to the rank of major general and appointed me as successor to our lamented General Metts. Owing to bodily infirmities I hesitated to accept this distinguished honor, but yielding to your insistence I assume the command of the veterans of that great army."

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Burn, ’10, has advanced to the district managership of the Southeastern States of the Addressograph Company. His office address is 63 N. Pryor St., Atlanta, Ga.

Chas. Foreman, ’19, and his bride, motored up to Davidson last Saturday to visit old friends. Mr. Foreman is now with the Southern Power Company, Charlotte, N. C.

Prof. A. Currie, ’97, motored to Mooresville.

BELK BROS. CO.

Greatest Economy Clothing Sale

$250,000 worth of Men’s and Boys’ Clothing, Furnishings, Hats, Caps and Shoes in this, the most timely and unusual Sale since the War.

LOT NO. 1
Men’s and Young Men’s fine French back Worsted Serge and Cashmere Suits, made in regulars, young men’s, slims, stouts, long stouts and D. B. models. We sold these same suits for $49.50. Our today prices — $29.50 and $25.00

LOT NO. 2
500 Men and Young Men’s all pure worsted Serge and Cashmere Suits, made in single and double breasted models, values up to $30.00. Today’s price

LOT NO. 3
Men and Young Men’s and Students all wool Serge and Cashmere Suits, single and D. B. models. The very newest thing in patterns and material. Values up to $25.00. Special

MEN’S OVERCOATS, $19.95
One big special lot Men’s Overcoats, colors, black, brown and gray, made of Kersey material, made in medium and extra length, extra value. Special $19.95

Big lot Men’s Overcoats, made in all styles and patterns, at $9.95, $12.95 and $15.00

MEN’S HAND-TAILORED OVERCOATS
Men’s hand-tailored Overcoats, made by New York’s biggest and best manufacturers, including the new plaid back material at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00 and $39.50Another Davidson man, W. F. Mil-

MEN’S UNDERWEAR AND HOSIERY

500 dozen Men's Ribbed and Fleeced Lined Shirts and Drawers. Sale price 50c each.

Men’s $1.50 Egyptian Ribbed Union Suits. Special $1.00.

Men’s $1.00 quality Egyptian Ribbed Shirts and Drawers. Our Special Price 65c.

Men’s fine Spring Needle Ribbed and Fine Fleeced Shirts and Drawers. Special 85c, $1.25. Sizes up to 52.

Men’s fine Spring Needle Ribbed Union Suits, also Fleece Lined $1.25, $1.45, $1.95.

25 dozen Men’s Medium Weight Short-Sleeve, Ankle Elastic Union Suits. Special 98c.

Men’s Outing Night Shirts, at $1.00, $1.48, $1.98.

Men’s 50c first quality Men’s Sox, all colors. Sale Price 25c; 6 pair $1.50.

Men’s 50c Silk Plaited Sox at 35c pair; 3 pair $1.00.

Men’s Thread Silk Sox, all colors. Sale Price 50c.

Men’s 35c Sox, all the leading colors, at 25c; 5 pair $1.00.

Big lot Men’s Caps, just closed out at a big reduction, all the new shapes and colors 48c, 98c, $1.48, $1.98.

MEN’S FINE SHIRTS AT SPECIAL PRICES.

100 dozen Men’s fine Madras Shirts, made with French cuff. Special $1.00.

Men’s $1.50 Shirts, plain and fancy patterns, cut full and well made. Special 89c.

Also neat patterns with French cuffs and with extra collars, full made. Sizes 13 1-2 to 20. Our Special $1.50.

$3.00 value white Oxford Cloth College Boys’ Shirts. Special.

A Big lot Lion Brand Shirts, just closed out, beautiful patterns and fast colors, at $1.50, $2.00, $2.50 and $3.00.

Men’s Silk Shirts, made in the newest patterns.

MEN’S SHOES

We have just received a new and complete shipment of Bion F. Reynolds Shoes, all sizes and widths. Price $11.95.

Also a complete line of Ralston Shoes for men, all sizes and styles. Price $9.95.

One lot of Men’s tan and black English and blucher. Value $9.50 and $10.00. We are selling this at $3.95, $4.95, $5.95.

“One look at the prices and values we are giving during this Economy Sale,” will quickly convince you of the absolute truth of this statement. We will save $10 to $25 on every suit. Send us your mail orders and save money. We fill promptly.

BELK BROS. CO.
Charlotte, N.C.

state which furnished more troops to the Confederacy than any other state, of whom 42,000 never came back again, exceeding the loss of any two other states; and which was First at Bethel, farthest at Gettysburg and Last at Appomattox, General Smith was born January 11, 1843, on the banks of the Pee Dee River, at the old Helms homestead, which he

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298: JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent - J. W. Phillips

“After Every Meal”
WRIGLEY’S

Everything for QUALITY — nothing for show

THAT’S OUR IDEA in making CAMELS — the Quality Cigarette. Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! It’s the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper outside — secure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp over the end to seal the package and keep it air-tight. And note this! There’s nothing flashy about the Camel package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the smoke. Not a cent of needless expense that must come out of the quality of the tobacco. Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins on merit alone. Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness and their freedom from cigaretty aftertaste. Camels are made for men who think for themselves.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winston-Salem, N.C.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.

Johnson’s Barber Shop
The Home of Comfortable Hair Cuts and Shaves
We want your business and you need our service
RALPH W. JOHNSON, Proprietor

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS CANDIES PICKLES SANDWICHES “an’ everything”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.