THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1921

Alumni News

NOTE—To all the alumni everywhere: Due to financial conditions, the paper has been cut down to six pages. Next year
there will be eight pages with one page exclusively for the alumni. This is your page, and we want you
to contribute to it. Send us news about yourself or any alumnus that you know about. We want this page
to be as interesting as possible, and it is up to you to help us.

TO THE STUDENTS—If you know of any alumni and any news about them, give it to C. F. Wildman at
38 Chambers. He canvasses for news every week, but it is impossible to see everybody. Help us to make this
page an interesting one for our alumni. Mail all articles to the Alumni Editor, Box 68.

The alumni are reminded that the following classes are expected to have reunions at Commencement this year: '16, '11, '06,
'01, '96, '91, '86, '81, '76, '71, '66, and '61. Some man in each class is requested to volunteer his
services to write the members of his class and make arrangements for a class banquet. The college officials will be
glad to co-operate in making local arrangements. Sleeping space in dormitories, with bed linen, will be provided, and there will
be plenty of room for everybody. The members of the class of '01 will please correspond with T. D. Dupuy,
Greensboro, N. C., and those of the class of '11 with C. B. Craig, Laurinburg, N. C. Make your arrangements
to be on the hill during the days of May 29, 30, 31, and June 1, and bring your class
pep with you.

H. B. Craig, '16, spent last Saturday on the hill.

L. D. Wilkinson, '13, and Mrs. Wilkinson announce the birth of a son on April the thirteenth.

J. Harper Brady, '12, and his wife, now living at Susaki, Japan, have been blessed by the arrival of a
son, J. Harper, Jr.

Rev. J. B. Meacham, '01, is now pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church, Birmingham, Ala., having moved from Moultrie, Ga.

Rev. Chas. D. Holland, '10, of Hillsdale, Md., will have the sympathy of his many friends in the death of
his beloved wife, who passed away on March 8th.

Rev. W. A. Murray, '96, was elected a trustee of Davidson College at a recent meeting of Kings Mountain Presbytery.

Cosmo L. Walker, '17, one of the best football players Davidson ever had, is now associated with the American Export
and Import Corporation, Greenville, S.C.

J. H. Miller, Jr., '19, who was president of the student body in his Senior year, is now pursuing the
second year of his business course at Harvard University. His address is 10 Oxford St., Cambridge, Mass.

Mr. E. E. Howell and his wife, of Florence, N. C., have announced the engagement of their daughter, Mary Estelle,
to Jas. Thornwell Gillespie, ex-'17, of Effingham, N. C., the marriage to take place early in May.

Rev. W. M. Hunter, '93, attended the meetings of the Concord, Kings Mountain, and Wilmington Presbyteries to present the cause
of Synod’s Schools and Colleges, of which he is chairman, and Miss Hattie Thompson, of Davidson, treasurer.

Among the alumni of Davidson who attended the meetings of the Concord Presbytery at Mooresville, N. C., recently were Dr.
W. L. Lingle, '92; F. L. Jackson, '06; Dr. T. W. Lingle, '93.Dr. C. G. M. Richards, '92; J. C.
Story, '95; Ovid Pulten, '11; Dr. Asa Thurston, '05; Rev. B. C. Clark, '90; C. U. Voils, '08; S. A.
Ewart, '13; F. A. Barnes, '95; Dr. L. L. Moore, '89; J. W. Moore, '86; and E. D. Brown, stated
clerk. The commissioners to the General Assembly elected by the Concord Presbytery are Dr. W. L. Lingle and Mr. F.
L. Jackson. Dr. W. L. Lingle, the last moderator of the General Assembly, will preach the opening sermon. The General
Assembly will begin May 10th. Dr. H. T. Pope, '95, is a prominent physician of Lumberton, N. C., and is
associated with the Baker’s Sanatorium. P. Murphy McClean, ex-'18, is in business in Lumberton, N. C. Frank L. Nash, ex-'16,
is in the cotton mill business in Rosemary, N. C. C. B. Robson, '19, is a professor in McCallie School,
Chattanooga, Tenn. “Pat” was one of the gamest little football players ever seen on Sprunt Field. In mentioning the alumni
at McCallie last week, his name was unintentionally overlooked. Several alumni were seen at the Wake Forest game Monday, among
whom were Jack Holbrook, ex-'23; W. F. Hall, '20; and A. G. Oltman, ex-'21. J. M. Jamison, '20, of Charlotte,
was seen on the hill last week. LeConte Mackey, ex-'20, of Lancaster, S. C., motored up last week to see
old friends. News was received last week of the birth of a son, A. C., Jr., to A. C. Burns,
ex-'19, of Sumter, S. C. “Buck” was one of the greatest fullbacks in the history of Davidson and he also
rendered excellent service as catcher on the baseball team.

New Central Hotel
In the center of the theatre and shopping district

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED

Henry Reeves, '13, is doing evangelistic work in Soochow, China. Bob King, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Kingsport,
Tenn., has just completed a series of services in Charleston, S. C. Thoroughly modern and up-to-date. D. S. Henderson, Jr.,
'08, is with the Gibbs Machine Company of Columbia, S. C. His specialty is selling Paige cars. They will look
new. Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., '14, of Canton, N.C., is now in charge of the hospital in Soochow, China.

Make your headquarters with us when in town.

The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Frank Gregson, Mgr.
Agency at the Powerhouse
CORNELIUS, N.C.

J. B. Readling, Cornelius, N. C., writes insurance. He wants your business. Phone 25-W. He represents only the best companies
and has every facility for meeting your requirements. He is also a Public Notary and at your service.

SPUR - A New NARROW ARROW COLLAR
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, N.Y.

As a matter of fact, you'll swing into the Camel procession as easily and as delightedly as any of the
thousands of smokers who have found these cigarettes an absolute revelation in quality, in refreshing flavor, and mellow mildness. Camels
are unlike any cigarette you ever puffed. They are a creation — an expert blend of choice Turkish and choice
Domestic tobaccos. You will prefer Camels blend to either kind of tobacco smoked straight! Camels fit in with your cigarette
desires just one hundred percent! The satisfaction they impart to smokers is simply joyous. Camels will not tire your taste!
Camels leave no unpleasant cigaretty aftertaste nor unpleasant cigaretty odor. You'll prove out our enthusiasm when you compare Camels with
any cigarette in the world at any price!

R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Your first R-E-A-L cigarette pleasure sure as you are a foot high. And, Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed
packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.
