THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 1, 1921.

Talking About You, Sister!

We are told not to believe all we see—but, if some things we see aren’t so, then we have a more vivid imagination than we thought.

Peanut Parcher
BY M. R. DOUBLES

He Gets the Pup.

Ross Dunlap claims to be the biggest stud on the Hill. He made Good on Biology and he has never been to class and hasn't cracked a book. If anybody can beat that let him pipe up!

This Week's Prize Bone.

From the rostrum in chapel this week comes the following announcement: "All men going out for football next year in Dr. Sentelle’s classroom this afternoon at 2:30."

Misconstrued.

Dub Roddey, in relating his experiences on a floating ranch this summer, tells how he and three other negroes had to feed the animals each morning.

"Mac" Richards, after awakening suddenly from an afternoon snooze, inquires, very embarrassed: "Have I cut breakfast, why didn’t somebody wake me?"

More Fresh Brilliance.

This year’s Quips and Cranks is dedicated to “Dad;” but Fresh Ted Jones, inquisitive-like, don’t you know, inquired, “Dad who?” Enter cabbage heads.

Commenting further on this “tennis” mustache of Mitchel, Colonel Rogers says: "I don't mind hearing a man admit he is trying to grow a mustache, but to see him try to prove it."

They're Not All Dead Yet.

It seems altogether fitting that April 1st should witness the debut of the new Davidsonian staff.

A Lovely Scene.

We stood at the bars as the sun went down, Beneath the hills on a summer day. Her eyes were big, and tender, and brown, As sweet as the new-mown hay. Far from the west the faint sunshine Glanced sparkling off her golden hair, Those calm deep eyes were turned to mine, And a look of contentment rested there. I see her bathed in the sunlight flood I see her standing peacefully now. Peacefully standing and chewing her cud, As I rubbed her ears—that Jersey Cow.

—Ex.

Can You Answer?

Where can a man find a cap for his knee? Or a key to the lock of his hair? Can his eyes be called an academy, Because there are pupils there? What gems are found in the crown of his head? Who travels the bridge of his nose? Can he use, when shingling the roof of his house, The nail on the end of his toes?

Get This.

To call it the week-end is a misnomer, for that’s when we are going the strongest.

Who Was Moseley?

He was a young Oxford man, only twenty-seven when he was killed at Gallipoli. Up to his time, man had never seen the inside of an atom. He turned the X-rays on matter—not figuratively but literally—and made

The Concord Presbyterial is meeting this week in Newton. Several of the Davidson ladies will be in attendance at its meetings, namely, Mrs. W. R. Grey, president; Mrs. C. M. Richards, Mrs. C. H. Hamilton, Mrs. A. Currie, and Miss Mary Young.them disclose the skeleton of an atom just as certainly as a surgeon makes them reveal the positions of the bones of the body. Moseley proved that all atoms are built up of the same kind of matter. He saw, too, just why an atom of copper is different from an atom of gold. Atoms are built up of electrons. Each atom consists of a nucleus, a kind of sun, with a certain number of electrons grouped about it, like planets. Moseley actually counted the number of electrons of all the metals from aluminum to gold. When you discover what gold is made of or a new fact about electricity, you open up new possibilities for the use of gold or electricity. For that reason, the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company are as much concerned with the “how” of things—atoms and electrons, for instance—as they are with mere applications of the electric current. Hence Moseley’s work has been continued in the Research Laboratories, with the result that more has been learned about matter. How does water freeze? What is lead? Why are lead, iron, gold, and tungsten malleable? Such questions can be answered more definitely now than ten years ago. And because they can be answered, it is possible to make more rapid progress in illumination, in X-ray photography, in wireless telegraphy, and in electrical engineering as a whole. There would have been no coal-tar industry without the vast amount of research conducted in organic chemistry, and no electro-chemical industry without such work as Sir Humphrey Davy’s purely scientific study of an electric current’s effect on caustic potash and caustic soda. Sooner or later, research in pure science always enriches the world with discoveries that can be practically applied. For these reasons, the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company devote so much time to the study of purely scientific problems.

General Electric
General Office Company
Schenectady, N.Y.

For Nearly a Century
Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address, The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary Columbia, S.C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.

CAMP SAPPHIRE
BREVARD, N.C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS
All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable.
W. McK. FETZER, - Director
Chapel Hill, N.C.
J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director
Davidson, N.C.
WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG

A COMPLETE LINE OF SPRING CLOTHES
Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves.
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, March 31st, April 1st, 2nd
OVERTURE - Academy Orchestra
Direction Charles H. Shonland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
CLARE CARROLL in Song Characterization
WESTON YOUNG and COMPANY in “What's the Idea”—A Neat Farce With Five Capable Players
AMANDA GILBERT and COMPANY in Music and Song
CHARLES LEONARD FLETCHER, Artistic Delineator of Character Studies
NESTOR AND VINCENT, Offering a Unique Novelty