THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 10, 1921.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

Full House.
The hand I held I'll hold no more,
More beautiful than any I'd held before,
When I think it'll never again be mine,
I pine—
’Twas this: King, queen, jack, ten, nine.

Some Tribe.
Professor—“Mr. Brown, how many kinds of sheep are there?”
Vic—“White sheep, black sheep, Mary’s little lamb, and a hydraulic ram.”

Where Is She?
What has become of the old-fashioned girl that used to send candy to her friends at Davidson?

High Math.
Bob—“Say, Gibson, what have we for dessert today?”
Gibson—“Peaches.”
Bob—“Good, that means we have apricots tomorrow.”

“A rolling stone gathers no moss,” but certainly gets a good polish.
“A setting hen never grows fat,” but she enjoys a good long rest.

Pinky did not understand what his girl meant by saying, “It’s the little things that tell!” until she reached down
and pulled her little brother from under the sofa.

A Sick Man.
Awhile back McLaurin went down to the infirmary and asked Mrs. Robson for a couple of those P. C. pills.

Save the Water.
Consternation reigns on the second floor of Georgia as a result of Pecler’s taking a bath.

Small.
“What’s the matter around here?” said Johnny Adams after he had asked his nurse for water repeatedly, and had been
given a few drops each time. The nurse told him the doctor’s instructions were to give him things on a
small scale for a while. Johnny immediately replied, “Bring me a postage stamp, I want to read.”

What Has?
What has become of the old-fashioned boarding house that used to have hash once a day? They have it three
times a day now.

F. S. Johnston—“Are the Freshmen going to play tonight?”
Freshman—“Yes, the three-year-old Freshmen.”

The reason “Crown Prince” Young doesn’t drink grape juice has just been discovered. He is afraid some will mistake him
for a thermometer.

Hickson (to military professor)—“Doctor—”
Professor—“That’s what Enoch calls me.”

Freshman—“Weren’t those some eggs we had for breakfast this morning?”
Matheson—“FRESH!”
Freshman—“No, about three months old.”

Frank McLeod saw himself as others see him when the wild man was shown on the screen last Saturday night.

The Point.
Baldy Booth, seeing Sharpe carrying a new grate to his room, asked him, “Where did you get that grate?”
Sharpe—“That’s a great secret.”

Watch this column for next week's jokes.

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this season... Army Shoes, Dress Shoes, and Tennis Shoes. We also have a good line of
FURNISHINGS.
Knox & Barnette.

Slink Black, of football fame,
Was out on the gridiron making a name,
When from out of the air in an aerial attack,
There landed a pigskin on poor old “Slink’s” back.

Only a Matter of Time.
“What’s the use of worrying,” said the Freshmen after they had received their first Bible review papers.
“Nobody knows, and nobody seems to care,” said the same Freshman after hearing from home some time later.

“We will now have a cornet duet by Dupuy,” said Pat Miller. Pat was thinking of a duet of pennies
he had lost.

He Looked It.
“Are you the delegate to the Press Association from Oak Ridge?” asked someone at Greensboro as “Small Change” Hodgin stepped
off the train.

DRESS UP FOR SENIOR WEEK.
It is only about ten more days until Senior week. That, above all times of the year, is when we
wish to be dressed with distinction, for distinction in dress is the best means of expressing one’s individual personality. Distinction
has always been the keynote of fashion. Society is continually searching for it.

There are three features that make complete distinction in dress: a suit that perfectly fits your type of figure; has
superior wearing quality that holds its fit and style through months of wear; has easy flexibility. These three features you
get in every Hart-Schaffer-Marx suit. If you buy one of these you will have a suit that after months of
wear you can truthfully say “It is as good as it was when I bought it.”

Ed. Mellon carries a complete line of Hart-Schaffer-Marx clothes. You can find any style, any pattern, any size there. Ed.
Mellon’s caters to those men who appreciate true quality, and who have the perception of an artist which must be
the foundation of all becomingness in dress. Nothing is left to chance. They have suits in stock, at all times,
for every type of figure, yours is among them, whether you are fat or slim, long or short, in proportion
or out of proportion, they can fit you perfectly. They have special models created especially for college men that will
reflect your individual personality. A Hart-Schaffer-Marx suit, a pair ofBrogue shoes and a Knox hat would add greatly to your
distinction Senior week. Dressed in these you will be envied by your buddies and admired by all the “fair.” And
if you desire more complete perfection in dress, add to the above a Bates Street or Manhattan shirt, stiff collar
attached, and a knit tie. To repeat again what we have said in these columns before, “Just because you try
on a suit or hat, or pair of shoes at Mellons is no reason for your buying it.” They want
you to be perfectly pleased with your purchases.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES

BLANKETS TO BE PROVIDED FOR TEAMS

A much felt need is soon to be remedied in the gift by the student body to the Athletic Association
of blankets for our athletic teams. The student body voted to tax each man 50 cents, which will be enough
to obtain 19 large size blankets. Dr. J. M. McConnell has donated one personally, making 20 in all. These blankets,
to be black with a red 12-inch D, are extra heavy and will last for years. It is obvious that
they can be put to real service by the Wildcats, and will improve the looks of the team on the
field 100 percent. The student body is always behind the Wildcats, and this is one more tribute to those who
fight our battles.

FITZHUGH CLARK ADDRESSES MINISTERIAL BAND SUNDAY

The Ministerial Band held its regular weekly meeting in Shearer Hall on October 30th, at 1:30. After the devotional exercises
which were led by T. L. Fraser in the absence of the president, J. I. Knight, J. F. Clark made
a very interesting talk on the subject “Prophecies.” The talk showed much preparation on the part of the speaker and
was divided into two parts, the first part being devoted to the discussion of Daniel and bringing out the fact
that he was a prophetic historian. The second part of the discussion was based on the two-fold prophecy of Christ,
i.e., the fall of Jerusalem and the fall of the world.

When in Charlotte visit Warren’s Service Barber Shop
Chamber Commerce Bldg. W. 4th. St.

PIEDMONT THEATRE
Playing This Week
The Douglas Sisters
The Words & Music Co.
A NOVELTY SHOW
NEXT WEEK A NEW SHOW

Boys, when in Charlotte don’t miss visiting the Piedmont Theatre.

The Stetson road is a road of joy
That leads the whole world through
It’s an easy way for every day
If you wear THE STETSON SHOE.

Dancing pumps, authentic lasts.
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music (of course)
STETSON SHOES
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

VAUDEVILLE PROGRAM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 11, 12
OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
McLOUD and NORMAN
Modern Entertainers
EILEEN SHERIDAN
Comedy, Songs and Music
WALSH and EDWARDS
What Youth and Experience Produce in “A Symposium of Today’s Taste”
THE VOLUNTEERS
A Musical Novelty
“STEP LIVELY” With Mildred Rogers
A Modern Dance Cycle

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45 Featuring the new 4-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes
HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN Co.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
B. R. Cates, Manager

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
Charlotte, N. C.

SUCCESS
Many college men are going into Life insurance as a profession and are making good. The Southern Life and Trust
Company is a Southern institution, operating in Southern territory. The Multiple line of this Company will enable you to tie
up with a going concern and get you fitted into the line of work to which you will be best
suited. Write us.
Southern Life and Trust Company
A. W. McAlister, President
Arthur Wait, Secretary
H. B. Gunter, Third Vice-President and Agency Manager
Capital $1,000,000.00
