4 > THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

P. PRICE Editor-in-Chief
S. CURRY Forum Editor
C. BAILEY, JR. Managing Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
J. SPRUNT Social Editor
H. OGDEN, JR. Athletic Editor
W. J. COOPER Literary Editor
Alumni Editor
P. McKEITHEN Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BITZER, R., Pres.
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
RADFORD, W. Z.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V.
HESTON, W.
MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P.
IVES, J. C.
SMITH, R. H.
CALHOUN, M. P.
JONES, E.
ELLER, C. D.
COX, W. M.
JONES, R.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WIEBHAN, E.
MAUZE, E. H.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
C. W. L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department:
C. D. TULLER
P. C. HENDERSON
Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL.

Student Body spirit is unquestionably a good thing, but when it expresses itself by tearing up the benches in chapel during a pep meeting it seems to us to be decidedly misplaced.

The Armistice Day celebrations at Davidson were a great success, and those in charge of the program for the day are to be congratulated on the outcome of their efforts.

“You are the sculptor of your own existence. The goal you set is the model by which you work and the present is the clay with which you are ever working.”

In spite of the rules of the student body with regard to music on the campus during study hours there are some few who persist in this disturbance. It would seem that some step should be taken to enforce the law, and prevent those who wish to study from being annoyed in this manner.

What has become of the old-fashioned freshman who used to spend his time counting the days until Christmas?

THE WILDCATS.

DAVIDSON has long been proud of the reputation for pluck and gameness which her teams have won and maintained in many a hard-fought contest, but never has she had more just cause for her pride than today. During the past two weeks the Red and Black has met two of her oldest rivals on the gridiron, and each time the struggle has ended in a draw, yet no score can tell the story of those two games. On each occasion that band of eleven warriors met an opponent rated as at least two touchdowns its superior, and in each case that opponent was fortunate to leave the field undefeated. The result can be attributed to nothing but the fighting spirit of Davidson—that spirit which has rightly won for her team the name of Wildcats. One of the leading newspapers of the state has written of this spirit as being the best of any college in the South with the possible exception of Centre. The article was a tribute of which any team might feel proud, and was appreciated at Davidson, but in our opinion it did not go far enough. In the name of hundreds of alumni and students we say, “Hats off to the team which for sheer fighting spirit is second to none in the world—The Wildcats!”

CLASS BASKETBALL.

This week will witness the final games of the race for inter-class basketball honors. These contests have been attended with unusual interest this fall, and enthusiasm has reached a high pitch in the various classes. Never have larger crowds turned out to support their respective teams and seldom has more cheering been heard in Davidson’s gymnasium than during the past month. The rivalry that has been developed over these contests between the classes is undoubtedly an excellent thing for the student body in many respects, and yet it may be well to pause and consider whether it is not being allowed to go too far. So long as it tends to draw the members of a class into closer fellowship and better spirit it is certainly a thing worth encouraging, and it has undoubtedly served this purpose to a certain extent. When this same rivalry reaches such a pitch that it is the cause of genuine ill feeling and unsportsmanlike conduct between classes, however, it has gone too far. Neither of these troubles has actually existed on the campus as yet, but several times there have been serious threats of both. In view of this fact it behooves us all to see that our class spirit does not run to seed.

Open Forum

Wake Up Davidson.

It is said that James Whitcomb Riley is the only man to have had his birthday declared a legal holiday while he was living. And we all know that very few men are ever given full credit for their achievements until after death. It would be of interest to all Davidson men, both students and alumni, to read the following extract from the Raleigh News and Observer:

“Admirers of former President Wilson are planning to place a bronze tablet in his honor in the room he occupied at the University of Virginia. It is a most worthy undertaking, and it is surprising that it has not been thought of before. That room housed as a college student the greatest man in many ways that the United States has produced.”

Must this great man, the most distinguished alumnus of our Alma Mater, die without anything being done here for his memory and glory? We do not believe that Davidson men will allow such an oversight to occur. For, let us remember that this is the school at which he began his college career and here, in old Chambers, is a room which he also occupied. This situation seems to be a challenge to every man of Davidson to get to work and think of some way to honor our former President. Shall his achievements go by without a sign of recognition here? Shall his old room in Chambers continue to be only a room or shall it hereafter be designated as the room of Woodrow Wilson? If the latter should become the case, would it not be the spot of greatest interest in and around Davidson? Wake up, Davidson! Do something for the honor and glory of Woodrow Wilson. It will never cause regret!

Lux.

DR. WILLIAM H. WOODS TO READ POEMS HERE TUESDAY

In Shearer Hall, Tuesday, the 22d, at 7:30 p.m., Rev. Dr. William Hervey Woods, of Virginia, will give readings from his own poems which have appeared in The Century, The Atlantic Monthly, and other publications. Dr. Woods is a native of Kentucky and a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College and Union Seminary. For many years he was pastor of the Franklin Square Presbyterian Church in Baltimore. At the Centennial celebration of Union Seminary, in Richmond, in 1912, Dr. Woods read the poem for the occasion. A tour of colleges and universities of the South Atlantic States is being arranged for Dr. Woods by an alumnus of Davidson, Dr. D. P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga. The local committee on arrangements is sure the Davidson community will give Dr. Woods a hearty reception Tuesday evening.

GERMAN CLUB ORGANIZED AT HOME OF DR. PETTINGILL

On Tuesday night of last week the members of the advanced German classes met at the home of Dr. Pettingill for the purpose of organizing a German club. Before the organization of the club was undertaken, however, a delightful dinner was served, which was greatly enjoyed by all present.

Following the dinner the plans for the new club were begun.The name decided upon was Das Deutschen Verein. The officers elected were: President, John Schenck; Vice-President, J. P. Price; Secretary, W. L. Ramseur. The present membership is about 15. The club plans to meet every two weeks. The object of Das Deutschen Verein is not only for pleasure, but to study the German language and customs. The work of the club will be very interesting, as German literature, arts, and sciences will be taken up and carefully studied.

Mrs. T. T. Covington, Miss Emma Neal Covington, and Mr. Griffin, of Laurinburg, were guests of T. T., Jr. and H. O. Covington, on Friday. G. H. Cornelson, J. S. Curry, R. K. Shaw, F. J. Wright, and F. S. Shaw, were in Lexington Thursday attending the wedding of Fred Thompson, ‘21. With this fact in mind, it may be of interest to read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The Honor System.
The Richmond Collegian, in a further comment on the establishment of the Honor System at Lynchburg College, says that with real men a trial is all that is necessary. The Honor System would mean that every student is on his honor to uphold the integrity of the student body. Its value is unquestioned. Anyone who will cheat will lie or steal. The slovenly or careless student would have to improve. The dishonest student would have to straighten up immediately or get out. With the whole student body a vigilance committee to guard its honor, there would be no chance for the “crook” to “get by.”—The Critagraph.

In Other Colleges.
The prize orchestra, known as the Tar Baby Five, of the University of North Carolina, according to The Tar Heel, has been engaged by the excursion steamer Guy Semijal, which is carrying a group of Winston-Salem excursionists for a tour of the Mediterranean. The students and alumni of the University of Georgia have begun a drive for a million dollars, the purpose in view being the erection of a million-dollar memorial to the Georgia men who lost their lives in the war. There are now enrolled at the University of South Carolina, 575 students. Last year this time 515 were enrolled. By the end of the year everything points to the largest student body in the history of the institution. There are 86 Co-eds, 54 in the academic department, 15 graduates, 14 specials, and three in the law school. The enrollment of the law school is now 114. The Freshman class this year is the best-prepared class ever admitted to the university. Everyone was admitted on the minimum of 15 units. This should be a banner year for Carolina.

What is the Y. M. C. A. doing in the colleges? Virginia Tech had five hundred enrolled at her first meeting. This is typical of the other colleges in proportion to the number in school. Every Exchange received has boosted the “Y” as never before, whole columns being given over to the discussion of the plans for the coming session, etc. It is of interest to know that there are 1,500,000 members in this country with 300,000 organizations. — Richmond Collegian.

“What’s the matter with Jack, hasn't he the sand to propose?”
“Oh, yes; but he hasn’t the rocks to get married.”—Tartan.

He—“A fool used to blow out the gas.”
She—“And now?”
He—“He steps on it.”—Burr.

The Davidson-Cornelius Post Have Enjoyable Barbecue.
The Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion had as its special guest and speaker “The Fighting Parson,” Dr. Ben Lacy, of Atlanta, Ga. Dr. Lacy won for himself that name by his bravery and courage on the front. In the course of his speech he drew vivid outlines and pictures of the horrors of war and what the brave American soldier faced in Flanders. In the afternoon a big barbecue was enjoyed by all the ex-service men at the graded school. Dr. Lacy again paid a fine tribute to the dead heroes who fell in the last great struggle. As Dr. Lacy began to speak everyone bowed his head in silence and breathed a silent prayer to God in gratitude and thanksgiving for those who laid down their lives that America might live. After the speech everyone feasted together with the greatest enjoyment. Everything that was good to eat was there in abundance. Due credit must be given the ladies of the auxiliary for their splendid service in regard to it.

With Other Colleges.
Prominent in Politics at N.C. C. W.
Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 10—Miss Helen Fraser, of London, England, Coalition Government candidate for the English House of Commons, addressed the political science students of the North Carolina College for Women, Saturday, November 5th, on “The English Constitution and Politics.” A large number of the students attended the lecture delivered by Miss Fraser that night at the O. Henry Hotel, on “English Policies, Politics, and Personalities.” Miss Fraser spoke under the auspices of the Woman’s Club of which Miss Harriet Elliott, of the N. C. C. W. Political Science Department, is president.

Stunt Night at Meredith is a Huge Success.
Raleigh, N. C., Nov. 7—Meredith’s annual Stunt Night was held in the college auditorium Saturday night, November 5th, under the auspices of the Athletic Association. Stunt Night was established about eight years ago, and is an annual event at Meredith. Each class is allowed 15 minutes in which to present an entirely original stunt. After a few words of welcome from the president of the Athletic Association, four little, ragged, dirty newsboys came in yelling “Extra, Extra,” and distributed programs for the Senior stunt. This was a funny paper, presenting Slim Gym, Bringing Up Mable (the Freshmen), Katch ’em Rats, and Si Cology, replete with local color. Then came the Junior stunt, a two-act play, “Cave Man” Styff, showing how rough and ready methods may be applied to present-day situations. The Sophomore stunt, heralded by cut-out programs, consisted of a skit, “Little Green Newish.” The speeches of “Little Green Newish” were all in rhyme, something of which no other skit presented could boast. The stunt of the Freshman class represented an entertainment of famous “movie” stars by the faculty of Meredith. The actors and actresses all looked their parts, while the “take-off” of the members of the faculty was excellent.

New York Peace Society Official Speaks at N.C. C. W.
Greensboro, N. C., Nov. 10.—The International Relations Club of the North Carolina College for Women had as a speaker Tuesday, November 8th, Dr. C. H. Levermore, secretary of the New York Peace Society, who is sent out by the Institute of International Education to speak to the International Relations Club of the various colleges. Dr. Levermore spoke to the International Relations Club and History Department Tuesday afternoon on the subject of “After War, Reconstruction,” and on Tuesday evening on “Spiritual Reconstruction.”

WINSTON ALUMNI (Continued from page 1)
the guests of the alumni and turned the officiating chair over to Mr. John W. Moore. From that time until 9 o’clock, when the Davidson special set out for home, the courses were interspersed with talks from present Davidsonians and former ones. Much to the pleasure of everyone was the chief topic of discussion, that of making the banquet an annual affair in the hope of taking in the whole Davidson contingent that should be in Winston-Salem for the Davidson-Carolina game. Dr. J. M. Douglas, Mr. Jackson, Dr. J. W. McConnell and Major Hearn all made talks emphasizing the attraction Winston held for Davidson students and the hope that in the future even two games could be played in the Twin City. Many of the alumni present expressed themselves as being well pleased with the game and with the spirit and fight displayed by the Wildcats. Representing the students, Coaches Grey and Black, and Doc LaFar, Gig Shepherd and Spratt Moore made lengthy and flowing orations thanking the promulgators of the feast for their kindly benevolence in providing such a hearty repast. After running a course of four laps, each of which was interspersed with “smokes,” the banquet was adjourned for 1921, not, however, without giving “fifteen for Alumni.”