Speaking of Sports

Stiff opposition upon opening up this branch of sport resulted in two dropped matches; one to Washington and Lee, and
a second to V. M. I.

—Wildcats—

Results from the R.O.T.C. Rifle Range are encouraging and bring out the fact that we have some pretty good “gunmen”
in college. Finch, W. M., led the team with a total of 183 out of a possible 200 at close
range in four positions. His 48 out of 50, kneeling, featured. Martindale ran second with 179, and also scored 48
in the same event.

—Wildcats—

Interest in tennis is reviving again, now that the spring weather has made it possible for the racket-artists to work
up a good sweat. Work on the courts is well under way and the end of the week should find
about a dozen ready for use.

—Wildcats—

Followers of the little white pill, better recognized as the golf ball, are out on the links these balmy spring
afternoons, getting rid of some of the kinks in their arms, and the golf course is a scene of activity
these days.

—Wildcats—

The two girls’ basketball games during the past week stirred up quite a little interest on the hill. Mooresville High
trimmed the charges from Asheville by a 17 to 12 count. The lassies from the Blue Ridge fought hard, but
the breaks were against them and they lost a bitterly contested game. The Greensboro maids took the measure of the
Mooresville team, with the Western championship at stake, on Saturday night, by outplaying their heavier opponents in every stage of
the game. Captain Erwin’s cohorts played consistently, and were greatly aided by the stellar work of Miss Forsyth at guard.

—Wildcats—

If you are fond of athletics, after reading this column, lift up your bed mattress and see the bed spring.

—Wildcats—

On doit se faire connaître aux nouvelles concernant l’arrivée demain de M. Emile Villemin. Venez l’écouter et soyez-vous bien amusés
une fois.

—Wildcats—

Things are getting ripe around campus centers nowadays for that outbreak of pep and spirit which will burst forth next
weekend, when the Wildcat baseball season opens. Two games with Oak Ridge and one against the University of New York.

—Wildcats—

Things are being boiled down considerably on Sprunt Field and Coach has his men putting in the final licks before
the opening of the season. Jobs are by no means cinched and a hard fight is ensuing for berths on
the nine.

—Wildcats—

The track artists are working out hard under the direction of Coach Grey and last week participated in a cross-country
run.

—Wildcats—

College baseball opens up next week in the South and eager eyes are being turned toward the minute when the
“Ump” will yell out “Play Ball!”

—Wildcats—

University of N.C. in Winston on Easter Monday. Let's get right, Wildcats. Remember fellows—

The event—Davidson vs. U.N.C.
The time—Easter Monday.
The place—Winston-Salem, N.C.

Back the Special Train proposition.

—Wildcats—

DAVIDSON BAND LEAVES FOR THREE-DAY TRIP

The Davidson College Wildcat band left this morning on a three-day trip through the western part of the state. The
places to be visited are Montreat Normal School, Asheville Normal School, and Lincolnton. An excellent program of 14 selections has
been well arranged by Director Freeman. The Saxophone Quartette has been tuned up to the nth power, while Bill Beck
has Miss Lassus Trombone all dressed up in the latest spring styles for solo work. The band will return Saturday
night through the country via Fords and the bumpless highway between Jaybirdsville and Lincolnton.

Athletic News

The wrestling team ran into rather stiff opposition.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 18, 1921.

DR. W. W. MOORE (Continued from page 1)

Morning, at the chapel hour, in Shearer Hall. To give Dr. Moore time for his address the chapel period was
lengthened about an hour. The regular devotional exercises were conducted by Dr. Moore, who read the 19th Psalm as the
morning lesson. Dr. Moore was then formally introduced by Dr. Lingle, of the faculty. In answer to the applause that
greeted his rising to speak, Dr. Moore McConnell and Toney Star for Davidson. Winston High School team into their lair
with a score of 41 to 34. The game was exciting and spectacular throughout, both the “Hi” team and the
Scrubs playing a rough game, each side straining and putting all it had in it every minute of the game.
The game was played before a large crowd that appreciated the desperate battle and every goal by either side brought
forth unrestrained cheers.

The Scrubs got the jump on their opponents and during the first half started piling up the score at an
alarming rate, until at the end of the first period the scoreboard showed that the “Wildkittens” had 22 markers to
their credit while their opponents had been able to garner only ten tallies. In the last half the battle was
closer, Winston coming from behind and outscoring the Scrubs, but the big lead gained in the first half was not
to be denied and the final score showed the Presbyterians leading by seven points. This desperate last-minute rally of the
High School lads was very spectacular and they dropped the sphere through the ring enough times to make the score
look respectable.

McConnell played the best game for Davidson, tossing the ball into the basket no less than nine times during the
fracas. Toney, at center, played a good game finding the basket four times. The whole Winston-Salem team played good ball,
showing better form than they had displayed all season. Scheidt led the team in scoring with five field goals. Davis,
the diminutive guard, delivered the goods getting two field goals and seven fouls.

Summary:

Davidson Winston-Salem
McDonald (6) Wilson
McConnell (19) Sonnelly (7)in His own moral nature. His very mission implies His sinlessness, for he did “always those things
that please the Father,” although He freely offered salvation to others He was never concerned about Himself; He never confessed
a fault; never prayed for pardon. “The better a man is, the more keenly he feels his moral unworthiness; yet
here we have the most sensitive conscience ever known calmly asserting His spotless purity. The only possible explanation of such
a claim by such a person is that it was true.” Furthermore, Christ is the only sinless man, which one
fact places Him in a separate class, alone. He is perfect, and the only perfect example of the human race;
through the centuries the world has failed to produce His equal, yet man is a creature that ever advances. We
must agree with Gladstone that “Christianity is Christ,” and Christ is impregnable.

Facts of Christ's Character.
Sunday morning, in the village church, Dr. Moore spoke on “The Embodied Ideal.” Beginning with a description of Christ's lowly
birth and simple life as a plain every-day Galilean, he carried Him through the three eventful years of His public
ministry and ended with a graphic picture—that beggars description—of the scene on Olivet. Seemingly He was doomed to oblivion. Yet
today the sign of His cross and not the eagle of Rome stands as the symbol of world unity. By
His advent the world orients itself. His life has inspired countless hymns of praise, numberless works of art, books without
number have been written about Him and He Himself gave to the world much of its meagre knowledge on several
sociological and psychological questions. The religion of Christ has been the most potent influence in the purifying and elevating of
the world and it is all due to His character. The symmetry of His character is notable, “the even proportion
and perfect balance of all His qualities.” His character is free from the limitations of His age; it is universal,
“embodying the ideal of all ages, nations and temperaments.” Furthermore, Christ made supernatural claims for Himself that no mere man
could ever make. It is true that it is easier to consider Christ as a mere man rather than as
both divine and human. But it is not always the easiest hypothesis that is true; as witness, the complexity of
the universally accepted Copernican theory of the universe as over against the simplicity of the discarded Ptolemaic. Even so “the
highest conception of Jesus is necessary to explain the tidal movements of thought and feeling and the change of spiritual
climate wherever His religion goes.” “The higher conception of Christ is vitalizing, the lower deadening,” as witness the flourishing condition
of the orthodox churches which is in such strong contrast to the slothful decadence of the Unitarians. The natural and
logical conclusion is “that Jesus Christ was a divine being—that the Christian ideal was embodied in a person who was
God as well as man. It can never be outgrown or superseded.”

Comments on Modern Scepticism.
Sunday night, again speaking in the village church, Christ was further discussed as “The Moral Power of History.” Although seemingly
doomed to inevitable oblivion, Christ became the leader of all the real progress of the race. He alone has succeeded
in establishing a world-wide and eternal kingdom—succeeded where Constantine and Charlemagne and Napoleon failed. The principles that gave His religion
pre-eminence were: love, brotherhood, service. Over against them is the appeal of the modern philosophies, as an example that of
Nietzsche, to self-interest, with a super-man “developed by enslaving and crushing the weak. He is not subject to the laws
of morality.” In fact, a very barbarian. There is but one infallible test for all philosophies, their effects. Germany accepted
the doctrines of Nietzsche with open arms and today Germany is crushed, and despised of all the world. The appeal
of Nietzsche to the young man lies in his glorification of power. He has sought to charge that Christianity is
anaemic and incompatible with the manly virtues. But he is wrong, for “Jesus was the embodiment of power as well
as love.” “His ability to create great men proves Him divine; no other hero of history has this power. His
religion only is the religion of great personality.” To prove it, it is only necessary to call the roll of
the really great of history: Paul, Huss, Luther, Knox, the Covenanters, Washington, Lee, and Foch.

Conclusion.
The key of the situation is Christ. He is the impregnable center, He is the embodiment of the ideals of
the world, He is the great moral power of history. He is the keystone of the arch, the solution of
the problem of humanity.
