On “THE HOUSE OF SERVICE” Beubdle Guarantee, Free Tuning, Free Trial, Liberal Selling Plan. Write for Catalogue, Prices and Terms.

“THE WORLD'S BEST PIANO” And other standard makes and the incomparable AMPICO. Reasonable terms of payment can be arranged. Tuning,
Repairing and Moving.

JOHN W. POST & CO. Knabe Warerooms 209-211 W. Trade St., Charlotte, N.C. Stores also at Norfolk and Newport News,
Va.

Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES VICKS Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

THE RALEIGH Charlotte’s Best Cafe J. T. Matthews, Prop. Phone 36 221 W. Trade St.

Established 1873 A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co. Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry 213 N. Liberty Street BALTIMORE, MD.

The Selwyn Hotel FIRE PROOF Located in the heart of Charlotte, convenient to railroad stations, street cars, business and shopping
centers. Table d’hote lunches, 12:00 to 2 P. M.; EUROPEAN. Rooms $1.50 and up; with bath $2.00 and up. Our
system of artesian water flowing through the building. M. C. Lazarcere, Prop.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921.

Christian Activities OFFICERS INSTALLED IN IMPRESSIVE SERVICE J. P. Price, C. R. Crawford, and J. M. Richards in Y Meeting.

Practically the entire student body was assembled around the old well Sunday evening for the weekly “Y” service, the program
this time consisting mainly of the installation of new officers. Talks were made by J. P. Price, the new “Y”
president; C. R. Crawford, the new secretary and treasurer, and J. M. Richards, speaking for the new cabinet. Dr. Chalmers
had charge of the meeting. Cunningham, assisted by an instrumental quartet, composed of Buchanan, Freeman, Dupuy, and Nesbitt, led the
music.

With the sun slowly descending behind the Phi Hall, the service was appropriately opened by the song, “Day is Dying
in the West.” The new officers, with the students forming a semicircle before them, spoke standing under the large tree
to the east of the fountain. The new cabinet was seated at the front near the speakers.

J. P. Price, the newly elected “Y” president, outlined the plan of Y. M. C. A. work for the coming
year. J. P. fixed the goal of the “Y” as “Davidson for Christ,” and showed how this goal could be
obtained by observance of the motto “What Would Jesus Do?” The fact was then emphasized that Jesus was tempted like
as we are, yet without sin. He especially asked the students to show their cooperation by backing up the cabinet
next year and helping them in their respective branches of Christian work.

Pat Crawford recognized the work of the old administration and spoke of what the new officers intend to do. Even
as the Greater Davidson Club has made Davidson bigger, the Y. M. C. A., backed by the students, expects to
make it better.

Mace Richards made a striking appeal for Davidson men to go to Blue Ridge, and outlined the advantages there offered.
The ideal location together with the physical, social, and spiritual benefits there received make it worth while for any man.
But the main reason for the appeal to the students was that they could be of great service to the
“Y” on their return by learning at Blue Ridge the best ways of arousing new life and interest in its
work.

This is the first of several outdoor “Y” services to be looked forward to in the near future. With the
inauguration of the new administration, backed by the students to the man, one of the most successful and progressive years
in the history of the “Y” at Davidson is to be anticipated.

Y. M. C. A. BOARD OF CONTROL CHOSEN FOR NEW YEAR.

At a recent meeting of the Y. M. C. A., the board of control for the year 1921-1922 was elected.
The object of this board is to handle all of the business of the “Y” and all Christian activities of
the students. This board meets once a month to take care of any business or problems that arise. About $4,000
a year is handled by the “Y” board. This money is spent on the Hand Book, Fresh Reception, Sunday School
literature, the movies, and various other minor expenses. The board is made up of three faculty members and five students,
who are as follows: Dr. Arbuckle, chairman; E. L. Jackson, M. E. Sentelle. Seniors: J. M. McFadden, J. M. Richards,
E. H. Tufts. Juniors: J. D. Bernhardt, H. K. Russell, treasurer. Dr. Arbuckle was reelected for three years. E. L.
Jackson was reelected for two years, and Dr. Sentelle was reelected for one year.

VOLUNTEER BAND AND “Y” DEPUTATIONS SUCCESSFUL

Last Sunday Bill Crane and Buck Currie went to Charlotte by invitation of two of the churches there to speak
on missions. The pastors of these churches had heard of their great success at the Tenth Avenue Church in February,
and were so pleased that they wished to have the work duplicated in their own churches, if possible.

At the same time a Y. M. C. A. team, composed of Lewis Schenck, Rooster McFadden, and Birchie Romefelt, went
to Winston-Salem to work in the High School there in a two-day meeting. The campaign was planned by the local
Y. M. C. A. and High School authorities. Gordon Oltman and John Moore, both recent graduates of Davidson, being the
chief promoters. The trip was a great success in every way. The meetings were well attended and the messages of
the Davidson men were simple, clear-cut and effective, being characterized by that earnestness and very evident sincerity of purpose which
is the surest guarantee of success in work of this kind. The men are well pleased with the trip, and
hope that much and lasting good has been accomplished.

What's That?

First Queens Girl—Why did you let that Davidson student Councilman kiss you when you were up there?

Second Queens Girl—While at Davidson, you must obey the law.

LOUIS SCHENCK DIRECTS VOLUNTEER BAND SERVICE

The regular Volunteer Band meeting was held last Tuesday night at the usual hour, and was led by Lewis Schenck.
There were no prepared talks, but several members offered suggestions in regard to the work in hand, which were quite
helpful. Most of the time, however, was devoted to prayer. It was decided that all ought to unite in a
determined effort to really accomplish something for Christ here at Davidson. A real revival, such as has never been known
here before, is the end in view. Every day at 7:20 a. m. the morning watch is being observed at
the church. Anyone who feels at all interested is cordially invited to come and join with the Volunteers in this
important and helpful form of worship.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS KEEP UP GOOD ATTENDANCE

The attendance at the “Y” Sunday Schools last Sunday was good, there being a total of 278 present; 33 of
the college boys went.out. The regular meeting of Caldwell Sunday School was called off so that the members could attend
the annual graduation exercises at Flamersville. The report is as follows:

Present. Teachers.
Shearer... 8 8
Brawley’s . 52 3
Cornelius 53 5
Mill . 40 6
Oak Grove 4
Cowan's 5
Totals 33

SUNDAY MORNING CLASSES SHOW ATTENDANCE SLUMP

The attendance at the Bible classes Sunday showed a slight decrease over that of the week before, the total number
present in the dormitories being 101, at the Mission Study class, 30. All the groups report a very interesting and
helpful discussion of the topic "Who is the Hypocrite?" Major Hearn's class had a very instructive study of conditions in
the Philippine Islands. Next Sunday the classes will consider the question, "How Can We Meet Times of Supreme Testing?" and
the Mission Class will discuss India.

SUPER-SPECIAL PICTURE SECURED FOR TONIGHT

For Thursday night the "Y" management has secured another super-special, the "Prince Chap," featuring Thomas Meighan, the hero of "Civilian
Clothes." This is said to be Meighan’s best picture, and was obtained only through special arrangements by Charley McAskill. This
should be one of the best movies of the season, and it is hoped that every man in college will
make it a point to see it. The show will begin promptly at 7:30, and the admission will be 25
cents.

Above Par. Charlie McCaskill buys ten worth of stock in a pair of men’s pants, "For Men Only." J. P.
Taylor, E.

"ANNE OF GREEN GABLES" IS INTERESTING MOVIE

On last Saturday night "Anne of Green Gables," featuring Mary Miles Minter, was shown at the Gym, and was immensely
enjoyed by all. Anne Shirley is a resident of an orphan asylum and the majority of her years has been
void of any pleasure or amusement. Matthew Cuthbert, a farmer living several miles from the institution, agrees to take a
boy under his charge, and, upon going to the station to meet him, what is his surprise and consternation when
a whirlwind descends upon him in the form of a red-haired, freckle-faced girl who proves to be no other than
Anne Shirley. He is immediately attracted by the buoyancy of the child's disposition and is well content with the change,
but his old maid sister, Aunt Marilla, who lives with him, is not quite so easily satisfied with the turn
affairs have taken. Her shrewish tongue is quite an asset in making life miserable for Anne. This, however, does not
daunt the child's spirit, and many humorous incidents occur, due partly to the fact that she is mischievous by nature,
but mainly to her vivid imagination, which leads her into many and ridiculous entanglements too numerous to mention. The years
pass and Anne develops rapidly from a "weed into a blossoming flower," and soon becomes the belle of the small
village in which she lives. A delightful romance is woven into the narrative of the story which tends to enhance
its natural charm and appeal.

CAMPUSISMS.

H. G. Fenton spent the week-end at home in Mebane, N. C. Lloyd Bray, ex-'21, now a student at Elon,
was a delegate to the N.C. C. P. A. convention here last week. He is managing editor of the college
weekly. C. A. M. McCaskill went to Burlington, N.C. last week to attend an "On-to-College" meeting given by the local
high school. R. P. Jamison, G. O. Jones, J. A. Sizer, and O. E. Massey journeyed to Greensboro last week
for the Virginia-Carolina game. J. K. Abernathy spent the week-end in Mooresville with his parents. E. R. Watt is at
home in Reidsville, N. C., having his eyes treated. F. C. Thames spent the week-end in Spartanburg on an extensive
visit to Converse. Among the Charlotte visitors on the hill last week were Misses Henderson, Whitney, Fore, Helen Foil, Lemma
Sheppard, Sara Mayes, Virginia Love, Alice Buchanan, Mary Lee Nuchols, Louise Lee, Ruth Nuchols, Edith Gilchrist, Sara Keesler, Eileen Johnson,
Mrs. Johnson, Mayer, and Buchanan; Messrs. John Jamison, Lawrence Nuchols, C. H. Barringer, Oliver Rowe, George Adams, and De Conte
Mackey. Among the other visitors were: Mr. Phipps, of Gibsonville, N. C., father of J. R. Phipps; Miss Mildred Walker,
of Lexington, N.C. and Mr. and Mrs. C. S. Massey, of Waxhaw, N. C. I. M. Hamer, S. M. Wrenn,
and Ed Hamerick motored to Greenville for the week-end. I. O. Bernhardt spent the week-end at home in Lenoir, N.
C. Very few guests at the infirmary last week. Among these were: W. E. Crane, A. Beattie, B. M. Hamer,
and W. B. Dunlap.

CORNELIUS HEARS AND ENJOYS GLEE CLUB

On last Thursday night the Glee Club gave a very pleasing concert in the high school auditorium at Cornelius. The
club left here about 7:30, going in automobiles to the school. The boys did their best before a rather slim
and unresponsive audience. The absence of Fred Thompson as the black-faced comedian was keenly felt, but his understudy, "Kit" McKeithan,
did some splendid work. The quartet worked together and harmonized perfectly on their several selections, and were called back for
encores several times.

STATE UNIVERSITY BEGINS R. O. T. C. NEWSPAPER

"Extra! Extra! All about th’ R. O. T. C! Get your copy of the UTELLM!" We imagine—and we have a
good imagination—that such a cry can be heard on the campus of the University of North Carolina. The University R.
O. T. C. is publishing a little paper containing local and foreign news of interest to the members of the
R. O. T. C. The paper is known as the UTELLM, and is published weekly, two editions having been published
to date. At present the staff consists of one man, the Printer’s Devil, Mr. F. C. Shepard. Each week a
new member is to be added to the staff. This member being the winner of the weekly contest for articles
submitted to the paper for publication. When the staff is complete there will be six members. The motto of the
UTELLM is: I HIT-’EM HARD! Scattered through its columns are jokes, most of which pertain to R. O. T. C.
Good luck, UTELLM!

TENNIS. GOLF BASEBALL TRACK. CAMP

ALEX TAYLORS Inc. 26 E. 47th St. New York The Macamac Company Agents

The Hoover & Smith Co. OFFICIAL FRATERNITY and COLLEGE JEWELERS 616 Chestnut Street Philadelphia, Penna. WATCHES, CLOCKS and JEWELRY Full
Line of Pennants W.S. HENDERSON, Jeweler Davidson, N. C.

BASEBALL GET INTO THE GAME WITH SPALDING EQUIPMENT GLOVES, MITTS, BATS, BALLS, ETC. Catalogue is now ready, It's yours for
the asking. A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

THE COMMISSARY

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent 23 Watts D. W. ROBERTS

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY Phone 298
