4 e The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘19
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
10 Cents per Copy; $2.00 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor before 12:00 Noon on Tuesday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. M. Richards..................Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Athletic Editor
Alumni Editor
Exchange Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Publicity Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Mahood, D. L.
Mitchell, W. M.
Mauze, G. W.
Morris, H. M.
Fewell, Ed.
Phillips, J. W.
Gracy, J. S.
Tuller, C. D.
Heston, W. M.
Mauze, E. H.
Ives, J. C.
Walthall, D. B.
Lacy, T. A.
Wildman, A. C.
Cox, W. M.
Wildman, C. F.
Bitzer, R.
Cunningham, C. E.
Jones, J. R.
King, A. D.
Bradford, W. Z.
Calhoun, M. P.
Elliott, W. T.
Long, C. G.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. S. CURRY..................Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
J. C. Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

We are glad to welcome the delegates of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association to our campus. We know that their stay will be both pleasant and profitable for us, and we trust that it may prove so for them.

Spring football practice is a new thing at Davidson, but the results of this spring's work would seem to foretell that it will henceforth be an institution here. From the looks of things on Sprunt Field last Saturday, there should be no lack of material for next fall’s Wildcat eleven.

NEEDED, A YELL.

UNDER another department of this week’s paper there appears the offer of certain prizes for the best new yells submitted by any Davidson student. If you have not read this article, turn to the athletic columns on page two and see for yourself what terms are laid down. Such a contest affords not only an opportunity, but a challenge to every red-blooded man in the student body. We are all proud of our Davidson spirit, that indefinable something that draws us together in a common love of our college. We believe that it cannot be surpassed or even equaled in any other college on earth—and yet in one respect we have fallen far behind our sister institutions. We refer to the cheering at our games. One of the main reasons for this defect is the absence of any distinctive and snappy Davidson yells.

Several years ago the call was issued for a college song. The result was “O Davidson,” that tune which brings every Davidson man to his feet with fresh enthusiasm and courage, and which compares favorably with any college song in the country. The composing of such a bit of music proves that we have the necessary ability in our student body. The question is, have we enough love of our college to get down and rack our brains for the needed yells?

WHY NOT?

For some years it has been customary for the students of Davidson to present their Varsity football players with sweaters. That these men are worthy of such recognition, and far more too, for their work, no one would think of denying, and there is not a man in college who grudges them this token of his esteem. Yet why should the men of our other teams receive no honor? They too are giving their best for us, and we cannot fail to recognize their efforts. Why should we not also provide both basketball and baseball teams with sweaters?

It has been suggested that the students voluntarily agree to pay admission to one game of each sport held on the hill. Twenty-five cents a man from each of our four hundred and fifty students would more than buy sweaters for every letter man. It would be easy to start with this spring by charging for admission to our last game with N. C. State. Surely there is no one who would refuse to give a quarter for this purpose, and we believe that the student body will gladly agree to such a plan.

Officials of Vassar College tonight announced that the registration list for the class entering in September, 1925, has been closed, four years and seven months in advance of entrance. Vassar admits about 230 students as Freshmen each year, and already 500 have regularly applied for admission in 1925. There are at present about 5,000 names on the advance enrollment lists, including children registered by their parents at birth. —Mt. Holyoke.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 22, 1921.

Open Forum

BACK CHEER LEADER.

Why is it that the Davidson student body, taking them as a whole, do not support the athletic teams as they should, with special reference to cheering at contests? We have the hardest fighting teams of any college that we meet. We have the best teams for the size student body in the whole country, and as to the spirit of our athletic teams and student body I only need to quote the words of one of the best-known coaches in the state: “I would rather for my sons to have the ‘Davidson Spirit’ than the combined knowledge of the faculty of the University of North Carolina.”

Our teams are always fighting against odds and it is only the fight and spirit of Ole Davidson that carries them on to victories over teams that have twice our number to pick from as well as numerous coaches and costly equipment. For a long time we have suffered for the lack of a competent cheer leader. We can complain of that no longer, as we now have a man that will work and put everything that he has into the job just as any true Davidson man will. Now are we, the student body of Davidson College, going to lie down on the job or are we going to back him to a man?

Some of the upperclassmen, in fact a great many of them, seem to have the idea that when a “pep” meeting is called it is only meant for Freshmen. It is not meant for Freshmen any more than it is meant for upperclassmen, and that means you. If you are too good, or think you are, to get down and yell when a good play is made or when the team is needing every bit of strength and energy it has along with your support, then you are not a fit representative of a Davidson student body and this is not the place for you. Davidson doesn’t need you, and the best thing to do is leave. What we need is a student body of red-blooded American boys that are willing to support her teams win or lose, and not a bunch of modern lounge lizards that are willing to brag on a team when she wins and call it OURS, and then when it loses go off and run the coach, players, and the whole college into the ground, saying this is the sorriest place in the world, the rottenest team I have ever seen, and so on, till a good night of study is lost.

Now fellows, let's get behind our teams and show them that we are willing to help in every way, for we are. At a baseball game let's all sit together and when Sam calls for a yell, let's give it with every ounce of strength just as those fellows out there on the field are doing.

Don't be a slacker! If you aren't a good enough man to make a Varsity team, then show everybody that you are a good enough man to support one.You are the best supporter that that team has and in this way show that you are proud of your team (for it is a team to be proud of) and willing to back it to the last out. Fellows, we lack material here for our teams, but what we lack in men let's make up in spirit. Altogether—everybody—all the time pull for our team just as hard when it loses as when it wins.

DEBATE TEAMS PRIMING FOR SPRING BATTLES

Who's going to be the champs in the 1st class baseball series? The Juniors ran off with the basketball honors but from all appearances, they will have to do some steady work if they expect to be victorious in baseball also. The Fresh and Sophs expect to show all comers a lively time and the Seniors (though seriously interested in diplomas at this time) are expected to be out in full force. At separate meetings during the latter part of last week, the classes elected the managers and captains for the coming class baseball series. The Freshmen and Senior classes failed to elect captains—leaving that to the judgment of the team. The elections were as follows: Manager Senior team, Sam Brady; Junior team, George Cornelson; Soph team, Bascom Sorrells; Fresh team, A. M. Hillhouse. Frank McLeod and “Mickey” McKay were elected captains of the Junior and Soph classes, respectively. As yet no schedule has been arranged.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

LOVELY SCENE.

We stood at the bars as the sun went down,
Beneath the hills on a summer day.
Her eyes were big, and tender, and brown,
Her breath as sweet as the new-mown hay.

Far from the west the faint sunshine
Glanced sparkling off her golden hair,
Those calm deep eyes were turned on mine,
And a look of contentment rested there.

I see her bathed in the sunlight flood,
I see her standing peacefully now.
Peacefully standing and chewing her cud,
As I rubbed her ears—that Jersey Cow.

—Ex.

COLLEGE LIBRARIES.

In the libraries of all the universities, colleges, and technical schools of the country there are 20,234,734 volumes. Higher institutions in New York lead with 2,470,185. States following closely in order are Massachusetts, 2,168,323; Illinois, 1,603,670; Pennsylvania, 1,382,418; Ohio, 1,248,190; and Connecticut, 1,205,300.

THE LOVERS’ LAMENT.

Be she went?
Am she gone?
Are she left I all alone?
Oh cruel fate, you is unkind
To take she fore and leave I hind!
She must surely come to me;
For I cannot go to she.
What has went and parted we?
Alack! It cannot was!

LIFE.

First Episode
How do you do? Glad to meet you!
Second Episode
Isn't the moon bright?
Third Episode
Smack!
Fourth Episode
Honor and obey!
Fifth Episode
Da: Da: Da:
Sixth Episode
Where in sam hill’s dinner?—Ex.

Students registering in the new course given in aviation at the University of Illinois must first gain their parents’ consent. The University has taken such action to safeguard itself against complications in case of accident.

In May the University of Virginia will celebrate the centennial of its foundation and hopes to receive at that time $3,000,000 as a birthday gift from its alumni and friends.

REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS OFFICERS AND NEW MEMBERS FOR COMING YEAR

At the regular meeting of the Reporters’ Club on April 8th, the officers of the club were elected for the coming year. The nominees for president were men of the rising Senior class, being, in order, Bitzer, Cunningham, and Lacy. After counting the vote Bitzer was found to have been elected to pilot the Reporters’ Club during the coming year. The election for vice-president was then gone into and G. W. Mauze was chosen to fill this position. H. M. Morris was elected secretary-treasurer.

Each year a list is submitted by the Davidsonian staff of such students regularly reporting for the Davidsonian during the year drawing to a close as have made a record of not less than 95 percent in faithfulness in turning in write-ups on assignments given and not less than 90 percent in punctuality in turning in write-ups by the time specified; also a list composed of men regularly reporting for the Davidsonian and who have fulfilled the above requirements, made up of not more than one suggestion from each member of the Reporters’ Club. From these lists, Reporters’ Club members are chosen. In accordance with the above requirements, the following students were elected at the last meeting of the Club: Mauze, E. H.; Gracy, J. S.; Wildman, A. C.; Fewell, E.; Bradford, W. Z.; Elliot, W. T.; Walthall, D. B.; Ives, J. C.; Calhoun, M. P.; Wildman, C. F.; Heston, W. M.; Cox, W. M. Under the direction of the new president and his assistants, the club should make even more lively the “Livest Wire on the Hill.”

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Ervin, who has been critically ill with pneumonia, is steadily improving.
Mr. F. L. Jackson spent a part of last week in Lumberton, N. C.
Miss Sarah Lingle spent the weekend at home.