THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

F. S. Justice, ex-'23, is located in the drug business with his father in Hendersonville, N. C.

Bingham McKee, '18, is still at Bingham’s School, in Asheville.

A. C. Wood, '20, better known as “At” to baseball and basketball enthusiasts, is now in the lumber business at Asheville, N.C.

It was with great happiness and pride that news was recently received that Jamie Fowle, '18, had been awarded the Hoge Scholarship at Union Theological Seminary. This is the highest honor given a candidate for a degree at Union.

Roy Perry, ’16, who is now working with Parks-Cramer Company, in Charlotte, was on the hill last week. He has a baby girl three weeks old, of which he is very proud.

A. J. McCuen, ex-'22, is now teaching school at Mint Hill, N. C.

R. D. (Dove) Hall, '18, was a welcomed visitor on the hill last week.

Mr. Murray, father of A. J. Murray, ‘24, spent the week-end with his son.

Dr. James P. Matheson, '99, who spent a year in France with the Base Hospital No. 6, will revisit France this summer to see how the country has progressed in its reconstruction work. Dr. Matheson was a major in the Medical Department.

Rev. B. Frank Pim, '14, of Jonesboro, Ga., with Mrs. Pim, spent Wednesday at Davidson.

M. R. Long, ex-’10, is making during the current month an exhibition of 33 oil paintings and pastels at Raleigh, N. C. The exhibition is under the auspices of the Art Department of the Women’s Club.

Rev. Thos. H. Watkins, ’98, is Synodical Evangelist in Arkansas.

Messrs. Graham McDonald, '18; M. A. Siske, ’20, and G. F. Weber, ex-'18, are combining work with the Goodrich Company and studies at the University of Akron, Ohio. Mr. Weber entered a Senior oratorical contest recently, winning the honors and $40 in gold.

Carl Cathey, ‘20, who is engaged in bridge construction work in Robeson County, spent the week-end at Davidson with his parents.

GUILFORD COLLEGE BEGINS CONTESTS AMONG COUNTY CLUBS

(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Guilford College, Feb. 5—The continuation committee of the County Clubs met Saturday morning, February 5th, in the office of President Binford to discuss the awarding of prizes to the winners in the contest among the students for the one who writes the best representative story of the good qualities of Guilford. The first prize is to be ten dollars. The second, five dollars. The ten one-dollar prizes will be given for the next best stories. The County Club which has the highest percentage of papers will receive five dollars. These papers are to be in the president’s office by 9 o'clock February 21st. This committee decided that to carry on the work more efficiently among the different county clubs it would be best to organize a federation of the clubs with two representatives from each county club.

During the past semester the college purchased a moving picture machine, also a stereopticon. These machines add a great deal to the regular Lyceum Course given each year.

DR. WM. ALPHONSO WITHERS

DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB

DAVIDSON HEARS WITH REGRET OF DR. HEPBURN’S DEATH

Was First Professor and Then President of This Institution in the ‘70s.

Press dispatches told this week of the death on Monday, February 10th, at his home in Ohio, of Rev. Dr. A. D. Hepburn, for a number of years first a professor and then president of Davidson College, both of which offices he filled with marked distinction and acceptability to students and trustees alike. Dr. Hepburn was born in 1830 and was therefore in his 91st year. For some time past his eyesight had been very poor, but his mind, it appears, remained clear practically to the end.

His life and work at Davidson is recalled here very vividly and most pleasantly by the older members of the present faculty and by the people of Davidson, the latter knowing him best possibly in an official capacity as preacher in the college chapel or church. He came to Davidson as Professor of Rhetoric and Logic in 1874 and continued his work as professor through ‘85. He was elected to the presidency in ‘77. His work as a teacher and preacher was marked by fine scholarship and all the other graces that naturally accompany this in a person of refined and cultured tastes and earnest Christian character. He was a man that left his impress upon all who came within the range of his influence and was regarded by his students as the very prince of teachers and lecturers. He was the author of a Rhetoric and illustrated in his lectures, in his sermons and in all of his literary work how admirably fitted he was for its composition and for the exposition in the classroom and on the platform of its rules.

Dr. Hepburn is survived by his wife, who was a daughter of the late Dr. McGuffie, of the University of Virginia; by his only daughter, Miss Etta Hepburn, and by his son, Dr. Charles M. Hepburn, who is a man of note both as an author and lecturer in law and in matters of public polity.

PLANS FOR GREATER TECH UNDER WAY

Plans are now well under way for the Great Tech Campaign (Ga.) to be conducted April 20th to 30th, and encouraging reports of progress are received almost daily. Last week pledges of a million and a half dollars were announced toward a five million dollar goal which has been set. Businessmen of New York, headed by Ivy Lee, have agreed to provide a million dollars if Georgia will raise the remainder—The Technique.

“God must love flunkers—He made so many of them."—Ex.

Has Held Many Positions of Honor in Both Educational and Business Activities.

The subject of this sketch was born at River View (near Davidson), N. C., May 31, 1864. He was the son of William B. and Sarah L. Withers, and spent most of the earlier years of his life in this vicinity with them. In 1879, when but 15 years old, he entered Davidson College, from which institution he graduated with the A.B. degree in 1883. Two years later he received his M.A. degree from Davidson, and was a fellow in chemistry at Cornell University, 1889-90. On June 11, 1886, he married Elizabeth Daniel, of Raleigh, N. C. She died August 20, 1905, and he was married the second time to Miss Pescud, of the same city, July 29, 1909. He was assistant chemist, 1884-88, chemist since 1897, and acting director, 1897-99, at N. C. Agricultural Experiment Station. He was Professor of Chemistry, 1889, vice-president, 1916, and director summer school 1917, at N. C. State College of Agriculture and Engineering.

Dr. Withers has not only been a leader in the educational world, so to speak, but has always been at the forefront in all business activities of the Capital City and of the whole State. He has been first vice-president City Bank of Raleigh since 1917; State Chemist of N. C. 1897-98; a member of the executive committee National Pure Food and Drug Congress of 1898, and of N. C. Agricultural Society 1898. He was author of N. C. pure food law 1899, and chairman of the committee on pure food legislation of American Agricultural Colleges and Experiment Stations from 1899 to 1903. He was president of N. C. Section of American Chemical Society 1901-02. He is a member of the Society of Chemical Industry, N. C. Academic Sciences, N. C. Literary and Historical Society, Chi Phi, Sigma Xi, and Alpha Chi Sigma fraternities.was a director in Chamber of Commerce, Raleigh, N. C., 1915-18, Y. M. C. A. of that city 1914, a member of N. C. Council of Defence 1917, a member of the executive committee of local chapter American Red Cross. Dr. Withers is a Democrat, Rotary (President 1917-18), Presbyterian, member of N.C. S. S. Association 1914, Grand Commander K. T. of N. C. 1896, Grand High Priest R. A. M. 1897. These are just a few of the many honors and positions that this great alumnus of Davidson has attained. He is one of our best, and his Alma Mater is proud of him. Davidson wishes she had many more such characters to call son.

RECEPTION GIVEN DAVIDSON GLEE CLUB
(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Queens College (Submitted by Queens Blues)—The Davidson Glee Club is to give a concert at Queens on Monday night, February 14th. After the program, a reception will be given in Burwell Hall to the members of the club. Student government is pending at Queens. The question is now in the hands of a faculty-student committee elected by the student body. As this is felt to be a progressive step for the college, the entire student body is anxiously awaiting the report of the committee. Miss Elizabeth Bailey, of Crossnore, N. C., gave an interesting talk at Queens on Tuesday night, February 8th. She pictured the illiterate condition of the people in the mountains of North Carolina and asked that old clothes be sent to Crossnore. These will be sold and the proceeds used to carry on the educational work in that section.

PERFORMS AT SALEM
Salemite Moves Into New Quarters.
(By N. C. Collegiate Press Service)

Salem College, Feb. 21—The Easter spirit is being keenly felt at Salem in the form of “Lenten Organ Recitals” given each Thursday afternoon in Memorial Hall by Dean Shirley and assistants. It has long been the custom to have these recitals, and they are looked forward to each year by people of the entire community as well as many who come from nearby towns. “The Salemite” has recently caught the spirit of spring as well as the “wander lust.” Consequently, “it” has wandered into new quarters which have been cleaned, pressed, and dyed in honor of their new occupants and are now ready for use. Amid such cleanly inspiring surroundings, we expect great achievements on the part of the literary editors—so keep your eyes open and follow closely the contents of the “Salemite!”

Quite a treat to the people of Winston-Salem and to Salem girls was the concert given by the Davidson College Glee Club on Tuesday night, February 15th. The numbers were well selected and showed good training combined with remarkable talent. The program was nothing if not varied, ranging from “near classical” musical selections to the jazziest of modern jazz; from acrobatic exhibitions to the most comical minstrel act. The Junior class, which was instrumental in getting the Glee Club to visit Salem, feels fully repaid and wishes to extend to the boys a cordial invitation to return next year.

SCREEN VERSION OF “THE JUCKLINS” SEEN HERE LAST SATURDAY

Last year the students of Davidson had the pleasure of hearing the novelist, Opie Reed, deliver a lecture at Shearer Hall. Mr. Reed was then lecturing for the Redpath Lyceum Course. Last Saturday night we had the pleasure of seeing one of Mr. Reed's novels pictured on the screen. The play begins by showing the modest abode of the Jucklins, situated in —— County, N.C. Mr. Jucklin, whose favorite pastime is “fighting roosters,” much to the disgust of Mrs. Jucklin, is an “honest to goodness” North Carolinian. His daughter, Guinea, is engaged to a member of one of the richest families in the Carolinas, the Langsfords. Alf, the son, is in love with Millie, also a Langsford, but due to his station in life he seems to have no chance. Millie is also engaged to Dan Stuart, another “hound,” against her wishes. The appearance of Monte Blue as Bill Hawes, a teacher from Alabama, causes much excitement in scholastic affairs. Suffice it is to say that the school has had but four teachers in four months and hopes to get rid of the new teacher as quickly. However, he conquers the boys in many encounters and his life is threatened. Guinea, endangering her life, brings the sheriff and they capture the Ames family, who were bent on killing the new teacher. Dan Stuart has insulted Millie Langsford in Alf’s presence. Alf, vowing vengeance, kills him and is put in prison. The coroner's inquest proves that Dan died from heart failure. Due to this, Langsford breaks his engagement with Guinea, much to her happiness. Millie, who was always in love with Alf, surrenders to him, and Guinea “flees to the arms” of the school teacher. Mr. Jucklin pits his roosters in a “fight to the death” and buries them in Mrs. Jucklin’s best lace curtains.

J. D. Coxe, ex-'23, of Red Springs, spent the weekend on the hill.

TOWN NEWS.

Mrs. Louis Price, of West Virginia, has been visiting her daughter, Mrs. W. W. Wood. Miss Sarah Jones, from Winthrop College, has been visiting Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell. Ladies of the faculty entertained on Tuesday evening after the band concert in honor of the band. Dr. Wilson McConnell was the representative of the faculty, while Major Hearn represented the R. O. T. C. Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood spent the weekend with relatives in Salisbury. Miss Margaret Overton, of Salisbury, was a visitor on the hill last weekend. Misses Elizabeth McLure, Polly Dunlap, Louise McFadden, and Grace James, from Winthrop College, were guests of Prof. J. L. Douglas last week. J. D. Coxe, ex-'23, of Red Springs, N. C., was a visitor on the hill for several days last week. Cart Cathey, ‘20, is spending a few days at Davidson, visiting his parents. The college was represented at the Infirmary last week by McCallum, A. S.; Bradley, H. S.; Hersey, R. J.; McCloy, J. D.; Lake, W. J.; Gentry, E. T., and Gaston, J. M. Dunbar Ogden spent the weekend in Charlotte with friends and had an operation performed on his shoulder. Other visitors to the metropolis were J. C. Wool, Grady Brown, and Z. V. Bradford. F. W. Smith, '22, spent several days in Davidson, returning to his home in Mooresville Saturday afternoon. He promises us another visit soon. Taylor, J. P.; Nash, E. A.; and Davis, S. M., spent the weekend in Winston-Salem, Nash and Taylor visiting their parents, Davis visiting some friends.

EXCHANGES
(Continued from page 4)

National Chicken Fanciers Convention. We aren't acquainted with the object of this organization, but if they deal with the kind of chickens we have in mind, we certainly would like to rate in on that judging contest —Old Gold and Black.

The old-fashioned girl used to stay at home when she had nothing to wear.—Ex.

How doth the gentle laundress,
Search out the weakest points,
And always scrape the buttons off,
At the most strategic points.
—Ex.

WOTTA BREAK, WOTTA BREAK!

Jinks and Jenks met for the first time in years. After falling upon each other’s necks and chorusing the usual “Howzza-boys?” Jinks undertook to be polite and conversational. “And how,” he inquired with a show of interest, “is Mrs. Jenks standing the heat?” Jenks regarded him suspiciously. “How'd you know she was dead?” he demanded.—Am. Legion Weekly.

“Chrvgssaerneuenalfinajunjuarisiguejack” is Eskimo for “I love you,” and at the same time is a reasonable explanation of why the Arctic nights have to be so long.—Ex.

“How cheering it is to see a $4 pair of shoes marked down from $20 to $17.98.”