Everybody Go to Charlotte! 
THEDAVIDSONIAN
For A Better Davidson
Ask a Girl For Senior Week!

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 3, 1921. No. 9

Collegiate Press Association Is Royally Entertained at N. C. C. W.
Fifteen Publications Send Delegates---Mahood, Cornelson, McKeithen and Gamble Represent Local Papers---Next Meeting at Wake Forest in April.

From last Friday evening until just before midnight Saturday, the young ladies of the North Carolina College for Women, at Greensboro, acted as hostesses to the representatives of fifteen of the seventeen college publications which are members of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, and to the Meredith College newspaper, received as a new member of the association. Miss Anne Cantell, Editor-in-chief of The Carolinian, the weekly newspaper of N. C. C. W., and president of the Press Association, was ably assisted in the entertainment by her own staff and reporters and by the general secretary of the association, Miss Emeline Goforth, of the N. C. C. W. Magazine, the Coraddi. These were supported enthusiastically by the thousand young ladies of the college. The delegates were furnished their meals in one of the two immense dining halls, and the sensation of being outnumbered at the ratio of five hundred and fifty to six or eight was a peculiar one for the young men in attendance.

Friday Evening.
In a few well-chosen words, Miss Cantrell welcomed the association’s largest convention and bade the delegates work and be merry. Prof. E. C. Lindeman, of the N. C. C. W. faculty, spoke on the “Function of a College Publication.” He quite fulfilled the three requirements which he said should obtain in speaking to a specialized audience, that of knowing the subject spoken on, stating the authority for statements made, and speaking in terse and precise language. His was perhaps the most helpful of the whole splendid list of contributions to the program. Professor Lindeman called to mind the four types into which college publications are classified: the humorous paper, as the Tar-Baby of the University of North Carolina; the literary magazine; the technical journals, as the Cornell Agriculturist; and the newspaper, weekly or daily. He then gave ten functions of the newspaper type: to chronicle college events of timely interest; to assist in creating college spirit; to promote self-expression; to elevate the standards of composition, serving as an entity in itself and not catering to or imitating the city newspaper; to create in the minds of the students an interest in state, national, (Continued from page 2)

REV. LOCKE WHITE SPEAKS AT “Y” HERE NEXT SUNDAY
Rev. Locke White, pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Blacksburg, Va., who is under assignment to China as a missionary, will be the speaker of the evening at the “Y” services Sunday. He will have for his subject, “A Young Man’s Purpose.”

Mr. White graduated from Davidson in the class of '13, with high honors. He made the honor roll for three years, was one year captain of the Varsity basketball team, and was a member of the track team. He was also prominent in other circles, being at one time president of the Phi Society and a member of the “Y” cabinet.

Mr. White is much admired and liked by the V. P. I. students, among whom he has done active work. It is with pleasure that Davidson will hear one of her favored and favorite alumni.

Doctor Henry Louis Smith Tells of European Travel
Former Davidson President Delights Local Audience With Tales of British Nobility and Other Experiences.

On last Monday evening, Dr. Henry Louis Smith, a Davidson alumnus of national repute and at present the president of Washington & Lee University, delivered a lecture on “Glimpses of English Life,” which proved both instructive and humorous. Dr. Smith was sent over to England last summer by the State of Virginia to make an address at the unveiling of the statue of Washington which was placed in Trafalgar Square, in the heart of the city of London. This statue is a replica of the famous Houdon statue in the capitol at Richmond. The Legislature of Virginia voted to present this replica to the British government in commemoration of the hundred years of peace between the United States and Great Britain.

Dr. Smith’s party consisted of nine persons. They sailed for England last June and returned to the United States the first week of August. While in England, the members of the party were the official guests of the British Government. Dr. Smith spoke in most glowing terms of the great hospitality of the British Government. There is a separate division of the Department of the Interior known as the Hospitality Division. This division is under the supervision of Conway Davis, who spends $2,000,000 yearly in the entertaining of Great Britain’s official guests.

The American guests were housed in London’s best hotel, where everything for their comfort was luxuriously supplied. Three automobiles and four chauffeurs were placed at their disposal. One of the chauffeurs arranged a daily schedule of drives. Every morning each member of the party was supplied with a mimeographed copy of that day’s entertainment, including every happening from early morning until midnight. Special receptions were given in honor of the party from Virginia by the King and Queen, the Crown Prince, the Lord Mayor of London, Lady Astor, and Lady Markham. In addition to these, theatre parties, garden parties, a boat trip up the Thames, a luncheon given by the Government, at which seventy of England’s most notable characters were present, a luncheon by the English Speaking Union, and a stately excursion through Hampton Palace and Westminster Abbey, all go to show Great Britain’s great hospitality and deep appreciation of the gift of the statue.

The nobility of England made a very pleasing impression upon Dr. Smith. He had expected to find in the nobles only a settled state of dignity, but he soon discovered that such was not the case. One way of distinguishing a lord from

Davidson Golfers Defeat Salisbury on Local Links
Three Good Matches Played—Salisbury Desires Return Match.

On Tuesday afternoon of last week, October 25th, the Davidson golf links was the scene of an interesting match between the Salisbury and Davidson golf teams. Davidson took two of the three matches. The tournament started promptly at 2 p.m., and continued until 6 p.m. Large galleries attended each match, and keen interest was shown by everyone present.

Salisbury sent over six of their best men, and these were made up into teams composed of two men each. The six Davidson players were Dr. MacConnell, Professor Wood, McGill, Robinson, Pachman, and Gracy.

The first match was that of Yeager and Carter, of Salisbury, against McGill and Robinson, of Davidson. The next team were Palmer and Witherspoon, of Salisbury, versus Dr. MacConnell and Wood. Gracy were the stars for Davidson, while

Richmond University Tied By Wildcat Machine 14-14
Davidson’s fighting Wildcats on last Saturday snatched victory from the in the last minute of play. for a total of 67 yards and torn and left the final outcome

University Freshmen and Gastonia Lose to Scrubs
Two Davidson Teams Make Good Scores, Winning 28-0 and 34-0.

The undefeated Davidson Scrubs added another scalp to their belt by defeating the heavy Carolina Freshmen team by the merry score of 28 to 0. Are the second string men the stuff? Just let one watch them romping around some time with the old pigskin tucked away, and he will wonder no longer why no high or prep in this state is able to take their measure.To fighting crowd with the old-time Wildcat spirit, it will do your eyes good to watch them in action. They fashion, Gracey and Bachman from Davidson, O'Connell and Professor Wood, of Davidson. If you want to see some beautiful playing, it was done during the course of the afternoon. All teams matched up well and showed their skills. These moleskin artists in action buck the line in Varsity, pull fakes and end runs which would puzzle even Walter Camp, and their aerial attacks bewilder their opponents, just like the Doughboys did. The below played historical games on the defense, and Dr. MacConnell and Professor Wood both played steady games. Gracey played unusually well, making low drives normal, but his iron shots were above reproach, and he was also putting accurately. Bischoff, Kaiser, and Bachman made the Wildcats' fur ruffle every day on Sprunt Field, and they surely deserve every bit of credit coming their way because they are a game crowd and know how to fight.

Their game with the Freshmen last Saturday was played at Chapel Hill before the entire Carolina student body. It was hard-fought, but the Scrubs were fighting to uphold a reputation, namely, that no Davidson Scrub team has been defeated in five years. They outclassed the Freshmen in every phase of the game and the result was never in doubt. From the kick-off to the final whistle, the Scrubs were all fight and showed the large crowd an excellent performance of pre-college sport.

Executing the most spectacular flash of football strategy by a Wildcat eleven in many years, the Red and Black scored two touchdowns in the last quarter, the second one just before the whistle. Four aerial passes for sixty-seven yards were executed. Little Spratt Moore played the most spectacular game for the Red and Black. Furnishing the big thrill of the game, in the last minute of play he snatched a pass from Schenck and ran 20 yards down the extreme sideline for the tying score, eluding a Richmond back desperately clutching for him.

Coach Dobson's aggregation opened up with a rush, and before the game was well underway, had their opponents bewildered by the famous Tech shift. Opening after opening was made in the Wildcat line and the speedy Richmond backs plowed through for substantial gains time after time. However, Davidson's perfect aerial attack offset this. Passes of all descriptions were used to a wonderful advantage, and the Red and Blue were unable to fathom them at all. Also, Davidson had the advantage in the exchange of punts. McFadden and Erwin clearly outpunted Snead of Richmond and had their kicks better placed. Davis and Erwin were the only Davidson players to gain consistently around the opponents' flank, while Shepherd plowed through their line on numerous occasions. The McFadden to Schenck pass also completely baffled the secondary defense of the University lads. For the home team, Zeigler, Jones, and Fray appeared to carry the brunt of the offense. Towill played a wonderful game, throwing Wildcat backs for losses time after time.

Under ideal weather conditions, the two teams lined up amid much enthusiasm from the sidelines. The stands were crowded and the colors of both schools were very much in evidence. Davidson's defensive play was ideal.

SIGMA UPSILON GUESTS OF PROFESSOR AND MRS. ERWIN

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity had a delightful meeting at the home of Prof. E. J. Erwin Wednesday night, October 26th. The meeting was called at half after nine o'clock and an interesting program was carried out. 

The first part of the meeting was given over to the reading of the opening chapter of a novel, written by R. K. Shaw. The plan is for a member to write a chapter for each meeting and for it to be read and discussed at that time. In this way, a novel will be produced, unique in composition and varied in style. Dr. E. F. Shewmake then read a paper on “Dante, as a Poet,” and Professor Erwin read one on “The Structure of the Divine Comedy.” Both of these articles were highly appreciated. Pleasing refreshments were served by Mrs. Erwin near the close of the evening. This was the first meeting this term at the home of a member of the faculty, and with such surroundings, the Sigma Upsilon no doubt will continue its excellent work of previous years. Rolston Bitzer and J. H. McKeithen have been recently elected to membership in this fraternity and they will be initiated at an early date.

The final whistle blew, and the Scrubs were all fight, showing the large crowd an excellent performance of pre-college sport. The spectators were congregated in the center of the stands and gave the team a tremendous ovation when the opening whistle blew. Davidson kicked off, and the Freshman was dropped in his tracks. McFadden booted the oval outside. On his second trial, he gave it a far ride. The Scrubs chose to hold and forced a punt. Then began a steady march down the field which resulted in a touchdown, Baker carrying the oval over. The first quarter ended with the ball in the Scrubs’ possession on the Freshmen’s five-yard line. Boggs, who was showing up well, was knocked out in this period and had to retire from the game. In the second quarter, Harris went over the final white line for two counters, after Baker and Crawford advanced the ball down the field by pretty end runs. Harris’ plunging and Baker’s speed in galloping around the end were the main factors in the Scrubs’ three touchdowns in the first half. The Freshmen fought hard in the third period and by line plunging on the part of George advanced the ball to the Scrubs’ five-yard line. Here the giant fullback met a stone wall and the ball was Davidson’s. The Freshmen’s only chance to score was lost, and never again did they threaten. At the beginning of the fourth period, the aerial attack of the Scrubs completely bewildered the first-year men, and twice the Presbyterians carried the ball the length of the field.

WHAT’S DOING.

Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi. Society. Eu. Society.
Friday—8:00 p.m., Class Basketball: Seniors vs. Fresh.
Saturday—3:00 p.m.—Wildcats vs. N.C. State, Wearn Field, Charlotte.
Sunday—10 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
3:30 p.m., Dr. Hood’s Bible Class.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Service, Rev. Locke White.
Monday—7:15 p.m., Phi. Fresh Society.
Tuesday—7:15 p.m., Eu. Fresh Society.
8:00 p.m., Class Basketball: Juniors vs. Sophs.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Bible Classes.
Thursday—Davidsonians Come Again.

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS!