THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 25, 1921.

SALESMAN WANTED to solicit orders for lubricating oils, greases, and paints. Salary or Commission. Address THE LENOX OIL AND PAINT
CO., Cleveland, Ohio.

Christian Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C.

JETTON DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

White’s Meat Market BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED

PRESIDENT-ELECT HARDING ON RELIGION

When told of his nomination, Senator Harding said: “I can only pray the Omnipotent God that I may be worthy
in service.” Later he said: “I wish every man in America would attend church. I wish men would be as
interested in religion as they are in their own business. If the Golden Rule was applied to business we'd get
along with better understanding among the people.” Again: “We ought to have a reconsecration to morality in this nation. We
need a hardening of our moral sense.”

Phone 25-W CORNELIUS, N.C.

Kodak Finishing EIGHT-HOUR SERVICE PRICES 4c 5c 6c 6c 10c

VOLUNTEER BAND SENDS DEPUTATION TO CHARLOTTE

Buck Currie and Bill Crane spent Sunday in Charlotte on deputation work for the Student Volunteer Band. Sunday morning the
Pegram Street Presbyterian congregation heard these Volunteers on the “Call” and the “Personal Appeal of Missions.” In the afternoon they
spoke to the Christian Endeavor Society of the Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church, and that night to the regular congregation. Nearly
six hundred persons heard Currie and Crane on Sunday night, and they report that there was much interest shown among
the young people of both congregations.

EXCELLENT PROGRESS BEING MADE AT COLORED NIGHT SCHOOL CONDUCTED BY “Y.”

Vest Pocket 2 1-4x3 1/4 2 1/2x4 1/4 4 1/4x6 1/2 Developing any size roll We use glossy paper unless
otherwise requested. Cash with order or work will be mailed C. O. D. Send negative for sample print Charlotte Photo
Company CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The colored night school conducted under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. is making rapid progress. Starting with
a very few, the enrollment has been increased to 14. The main subject being taught is Bible, while courses in
Personal Hygiene, History, and Arithmetic are also offered. Dr. McConnell is to deliver a talk on “Personal Hygiene” Monday, the
21st. This the school is looking forward to with interest. The classes are held each Monday and Friday evening at
the Methodist Church. The periods are about 20 minutes, thus closing in about an hour.

Olven, Peabody & Co, Inc., Troy, N.Y.

New Central Hotel In the center of the theatre and shopping district Thoroughly modern and up-to-date Where Courtesy and Service
is the motto Frank Gregson, Mgr.

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED They will look new The Ben Vonde Co. The best Dyers
in the South Agency At the Powerhouse

Make your headquarters with us when in Charlotte

DISTRICT C. E. CONVENTION MEETS HERE IN MARCH

On Saturday and Sunday, March 26th and 27th, the annual convention of the Southern District Union of North Carolina Christian
Endeavor will be held in the Davidson Church. There are 50 societies in the 12 counties of the district and
a good number of delegates, both young men and young women, will be present. The convention will open on Saturday
afternoon and continue through Sunday evening. Rev. Chas. G. Lynch, of Charlotte, state and district president, spent a day recently
in Davidson, conferring with Dr. Richards and the Davidson convention committee. Matters relating to the reception and entertainment of the
delegates and to the program of the convention were thoroughly discussed. Because of the college being here, a strong effort
is being made to get more than the usual array of speakers used at the district conventions. These speakers, a
stereopticon lecture, and the snappy conference, will make a program that should prove interesting to the students and all the
young people of the town. Arnett Gamble, ‘23, is serving as chairman of the convention committee, with O. J. Allison,
’24, as vice-chairman and secretary. Miss Willie Henderson is to direct the securing of homes, and J. C. Wool, ’22,
with some teams of the intermediate boys will give the delegates the proper reception. Miss Frances Johnson will look after
program matters, and Miss Eleanor Moore the arrangements of meeting rooms and the decorations.

Activities LEADS PROFITABLE MEETING OF Y. M. C. A.

Mr. Hemphill, in a very helpful talk before the Y Sunday night, told his hearers something of the joys of
close union with Christ and of the blessings to be derived from it. Many people, he said, are afraid of
“holiness,” but the holiness as taught in the Bible is one of the greatest privileges which we, as Christians, can
enjoy. It was God’s original plan to dwell with His people, and it is still the ideal toward which we
should strive. Union with God will make us pure. When Christ completely fills our hearts there is no place for
sin there. Union with God will also give us power. Christ can give us mastery over our sins and shield
us from falling in our temptations. Finally, the life lived entirely in Christ brings peace, for we are sure that
we are doing His will and that we are protected by His guidance. It was because Paul lived his life
in such complete union with Christ, that God was able to guide him in his labors and bring him, against
his will, from Asia into Europe, and into the field of greatest service. A beautiful saxophone duet, “Whispering Hope,” by
Buchanan and Booth, added a great deal to the spirit and tone of the meeting.

MORE STUDENTS URGED TO ATTEND STATE VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE

Say, fellows, had you rather be on the inside looking out, or on the outside looking in? Now, if we
were speaking of a state penitentiary or a lunatic asylum, unquestionably you would prefer the outside; however, the thing that
we are interested in now is the Student Volunteer Conference which is to be held in Durham, N. C., during
this coming weekend. Representative students from practically all of the colleges of the State will be there, and those who
are on the “inside” in this case will be the ones to be envied. Davidson is to have about 15
men in her delegation, and the following names have already been turned in.in: Baba, N. P.; Beck, W. F.; Bitzer,
R.; Bradford, W. Z.; Buchanan, W. S.; Cunningham, C. E.; Moore, W. W.; Moss, H. O.; McIlwaine, R. R.; Price,
J. P.; Roberts, D. W.; Chalmers, D. M. At this time three vacancies are still open. The fellows are to
leave at noon Friday, as the meetings begin Friday evening, and will get back to Davidson Monday afternoon. Beck and
Buchanan are to help with the music, and from all indications at present the convention should be a great success.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS
The attendance at most of the rural Sunday Schools showed a noticeable falling off in attendance due to rainy weather,
but this is to be expected as all country roads are now in bad condition. Special services were held at
the Brawley School with Dr. Shewmake as the speaker. A good musical program was also given in connection with his
talk. The new school established at Cowan’s is progressing nicely and gives every indication of becoming one of the most
flourishing in the extension work of the “Y.” The following is the attendance:

School. Pupils. Teachers.
Caldwell .......... 54 5
Cornelius .......... 105 5
Mill ............... 49 3
Oak Grove No Report
Shearer ........... 57 7
Cowan’s School ... 15 6
Brawley's ......... 23 6

BLUFFING AND KNOCKING HOLD ATTENTION OF BIBLE CLASSES
There was a slight increase in the attendance at the Bible classes last Sunday and practically all the class leaders
report marked interest in the discussions. The topic of the last lesson, Bluffing and Knocking, was one which seemed to
appeal to practically everyone, and many lively debates were staged as to the evils of these habits. With more subjects
such as these the number of boys to give up that Sunday morning nap to take part in the discussions
should show a steady gain.

GLEE CLUB ENJOYS (Continued from page 1)
son had preceded the club on an earlier train and had a sufficient number of cars to convey the club
to the hotel. There being nothing to do before the performance, the Musical Wildcats decided to visit the movie show.
A serial and a comedy made up the program for the day, and now all the boys are wanting to
arrange to go back every Wednesday to see how the hero evaded the villain’s murderous attempts on his life. The
concert in Lexington was given in the High School Auditorium, which was crowded to the limits. The concert was greatly
enjoyed by the audience for encores were required for all numbers. A large number of the school children were present,
and the stunts by “Jap” Cumming were greatly enjoyed by them, as well as the older folks. At the conclusion
of the program here, those who were fortunate enough to secure “dates” with the young ladies went on their way
rejoicing, while the less fortunate ones went to the hotel immediately, and spent the night in the arms of Morpheus.

Thursday morning found the troupe on the train headed for the “Land of the Sky.” Everyone seemed to be full
of life and fun. Many amusing stunts were pulled off by the boys. McKeithan gave a splendid interpretation of a
blind man, receiving sufficient compensation for his labors to buy a stick of chewing gum for every member of the
club. McGeachy caused great excitement when it was learned he had found a lady who had never been kissed. See
him for further particulars. The entire trip from Lexington to Asheville was full of life, and although it was a
long one it did not become tiresome for this gay crowd of music-makers. On reaching Asheville the club found a
large number of the High School students awaiting them with automobiles which took them to the High School building where
each member was assigned to the home of one of the students. Too much cannot be said of the splendid
treatment of the boys in this city. The audience at the performance was not as large as it might have
been, due to an attraction at the city auditorium which drew the crowd.

Hendersonville was the place of the last concert; the club arriving there on Friday afternoon. Mr. Fred Justus, who is
well-known to the Davidson student body met the club at the train and accorded them a hearty welcome to the
city. The members of the club agreed that this last concert was the best of all. The Town Hall, where
the club held forth, was filled, both the main floor and the balcony. The boys say they couldn't help doing
their best when they had so many pretty girls right in front of them—these being the girls from Fassifern School.
At the conclusion of the performance the members of the Glee Club had the pleasure of meeting the members of
the senior class of Fassifern School, under whose auspices the concert was given. After the girls had gone the boys
dispersed in groups of twos and threes, going in various directions to spend their time in different ways. A quiet
night was enjoyed by the entire crowd, except McKeithan, who said he couldn't sleep for the ravings of Heinie Myers
about the pretty girl he had met.

The club returned home by way of Spartanburg, a private pullman being theirs from Spartanburg to Charlotte. They arrived on
the Hill late Saturday evening. Every member of the troupe expressed himself as having had a wonderful time. From Spartanburg
to Charlotte the boys enjoyed the private car which the conductor so kindly furnished them. Those making the trip were:
C. H. Long, C. R. Vance, W. H. Robinson, H. Meyers, F. N. Thompson, J. H. McKeithan, C. J. Matthews,
W. B. Carr, R. L. McLeod, J. H. Adams, O. J. Allison, J. W. Phillips, F. Law, R. J. Rudge,
J. D. Bernhardt, D. P. McGeachy, A. V. Gibson, Frank Northrop, W. P. Cumming.

THE COMMISSARY
Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent D. W. ROBERTS
23 Watts

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager
