THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 17, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

There are nine unbeaten teams in the North and West and only one in the South. They are as follows:

| College | Points | Opponents | No. of Games |
|---------|--------|-----------|--------------|
| Iowa | 131 | 22 | 6 |
| Nebraska | 199 | 21 | 8 |
| Centre | 236 | 6 | 7 |
| Cornell | 341 | 21 | 7 |
| California | 211 | 20 | 6 |
| Lafayette | 246 | 20 | 8 |
| Pa. State | 230 | 49 | 8 |
| Wisconsin | 140 | 10 | 6 |
| W. and J. | 141 | 33 | 7 |

—Wildcats—

Georgia, Georgia Tech, Vanderbilt, and Centre all can claim the Southern championship, but dope seems to point to Centre as
the strongest team.

—Wildcats—

The Davidsonian wishes to thank the Charlotte Observer for the correction they made in their account of the Carolina game.
Near the end of the first half, Carolina had the ball on Davidson's 2-yard line. Johnson carried the ball and
upon being tackled by Brice of Davidson, fumbled. Faison and La Far recovered the ball, making it Davidson's ball on
their own 2-yard line.

—Wildcats—

How the dope stands on Elon:
Elon 0, Trinity 0.
Trinity 17, Wake Forest 0.
Wake Forest 10, Davidson 7.
Looks bad but read on:
Wofford 20, Elon 7.
Davidson 87, Wofford 0.
These scores are easier on the eye.

—Wildcats—

The Turkey Day game with Furman will be the “Battle of the Century” according to dope.
Davidson 0, N. C. State 0.
N. C. State 7, Carolina 0.
Carolina 7, S. C. 7.
Furman 7, S. C. 0.
Ga. Tech 70, Davidson 0.
Ga. Tech 69, Furman 0.

The schedule for this week is as follows:
Friday:
Furman vs. Wofford at Greenville.
Clemson vs. Erskine at Clemson.
Davidson vs. Elon at Davidson.
Saturday:
Centre vs. W. and L. at Louisville.
Georgia vs. Alabama at Atlanta.
N. C. State vs. Wake Forest at Raleigh.

—Wildcats—

Big Knight, stellar performer with the discus and shot, was elected captain of the track team for 1921-22. Last year
was Knight’s first year on the track team but he soon proved to be one of the best weight men
in the state, winning first place in the shot put at the state meet.

The first and second All-Class basketball teams were picked by Coach Hengeveld and Captain Crawford.

First All-Class Team:
Forward—A. C. Ormond.
Forward—R. G. Brake.
Center—G. W. Mauze.
Guard—J. P. Price.
Guard—F. K. Toney.
Substitute: J. H. McConnell.

Second All-Class Team:
Forward—Doubles.
Forward—Doubles.
Forward—Staley.
Center—Anderson.
Guard—McBride.
Guard—Morrison.
Substitute—Houghton.

FRESHMEN AND SOPHS FALL
(Continued from page 1)

For the Freshmen, Beall outshone his teammates at forward, and Morrison played a steady game at guard. The line-up follows:

| Juniors (30) | Position | Freshmen (17) |
|--------------|----------|----------------|
| Houghton (4) | RF | Beall (4) |
| Staley (7) | LF | Brake (14) |
| Mauze, C. (10) | C | Anderson, C. (4) |
| Toney | LG | Morrison (2) |
| Covington (2) | RG | Koenig |

Foul shots: Mauze 4 out of 6; Staley 4 out of 5. No substitutes. Referee: Hengeveld.

WILDCATS ALL SET FOR ELON FRIDAY AFTERNOON

The last chance of most of us seeing the Wildcats in action this season will be tomorrow when the Davidson
eleven hooks up with the Elon Christians on Sprunt Field. Fur is going to fly for the Davidson machine cannot
be stopped because it has confidence and plenty of “pep.” Coach Grey has his warriors in tip-top shape for the
battle. The Elon eleven, while not looked upon as a formidable foe for the Red and Black, are sure to
give a good account of themselves and are going to make the Presbyterians work mighty hard before the afternoon is
over. The Davidson varsity longs for a chance to show the state that they have a better team than Wake
Forest. Since they cannot avenge their defeat at the hands of the Baptists this year, they are going to try
to do the next best thing. Elon and Trinity tied, Trinity defeated Wake Forest, and the Wildcats are going to
do their best to beat Elon because they have the old Davidson spirit and are going to fight.

NEW BLANKETS ADD TO THE COMFORT OF OUR WILDCATS

The Davidson College student body recently showed their appreciation of the noble way in which the Wildcat football team has
upheld the honor of Old Davidson by securing for them 19 new blankets. These blankets were a gift to the
Athletic Association and will be used by all the athletic teams. They are large black blankets, with a red, 12-inch
D, which makes them very attractive. The student body voted that each man should be taxed 50 cents, and this
sum of money was enough to obtain 19 blankets, and with the one which was donated personally by Dr. J.
M. McConnell, there are 20 in all. They were bought through the college commissary.

DAVIDSON AND CAROLINA
(Continued from page 1)

This brilliant back gained 79 yards, or more than half the 155 yards gained by the Davidson team from scrimmage.
In addition, two of his flying shoestring tackles brought down Johnson when it looked as though he was gone for
a touchdown. Schenck’s line plunges were like arsenic and dynamite. Five first downs were his neat total for the day.
In the firing line, the Red and Black front bulwark looked like a cool million dollars. But the trio that
furnished more than their share of thrills de luxe was composed of Faison, La Far, and Clark. Out on the
right flank, the dynamic Faison played the defensive game of his life. He seemed to play just right for Johnson,
his low vicious drives always smashing the interference, and often bringing down the runner also. Judging from their work Saturday,
La Far and Clark must have been fed up on ram meat seasoned with T. N. T. Johnson was Carolina.
This great protege of Bill Fetzer carried the ball on three out of every five plays, and seldom were his
twisting, whirling drives stopped without a gain. Kernodle, Prichard, and Blount also played great games.

The line-up:

| Carolina (0) | Position | Davidson (0) |
|--------------|----------|---------------|
| R. Morris | LE | Davis, C. |
| M. Kernodle | LT | Davis, S. |
| M. Pritchard | LG | Brice |
| Blount | C | Field |
| Poindexter | RG | La Far (C) |
| Jacobi | RT | Clarke |
| Cochran | RE | Faison |
| Lowe (C) | QB | Schenck |
| Johnston | LH | Reese |
| McFadden | RH | Shepherd |
| McDonald | FB | Moore |

Score: Carolina 0, Davidson 0.
Substitutions: Miller for Jacobi; Pharr for Gillon; Sorrels for Field; Long for Shepherd; Black for C. M. Davis.
Officials: Major, Clemson; referee, Sampson, St. Albans; umpire, Hodgson, V. P. I, head linesman, Hengeveld.

WILDKITTENS HAVE FINE TRIP TO WILMINGTON, N. C.

The best scrub trip of the season was taken by the Wildkittens when they journeyed to Wilmington last Friday to
meet the Wilmington Light Infantry. It was one of the closest games that the scrubs have played this year; the
official score being 3-0 for W. L. I., and, though slow at times, was very interesting. During the first quarter,
the ball stayed almost entirely in Wilmington’s territory; only once did the soldiers place the ball within the forty-yard line
of the Wildkittens. De Armon and Boggs made substantial gains through the line but the Light Infantry had a defense
for the passes and end runs of their opponents to such an extent that these were not executed with much
success until the second half. Once in the first quarter, the ball was advanced to Wilmington’s eight-yard line. Here a
tackle play, an end run, and two passes proved unsuccessful and the ball went over. Most of the second quarter
was played in mid-field. Toward the latter part of the quarter, Burnett punted the ball well into Davidson’s territory, but
the hard-fighting scrubs gained ten yards, seven yards, five yards, and five yards by line plunges. This ended the first
half. Both teams seemed to have profited by the rest between halves and came back with renewed strength and pep.
Mallery was replaced by Grey who played steadily for the rest of the game; Mallery taking end and Regen tackle
when McLaughlin, who had been playing a sterling brand of football, was knocked out. In the third quarter, after the
heavier Wilmington team had reached the Davidson 25-yard line, a pass was attempted which was blocked by Alexander and caught
by Hodgin who ran for a touchdown. Regen kicked goal. While the Davidson aggregation was preparing to kick-off to the
infantrymen, a conference was held between the referee, umpire, and the Wilmington players, from which it was decided that a
Davidson player was holding. As a result, the referee changed his decision and penalized Davidson 15 yards. Rather than quit
the game, the determined Wildkittens abided by the referee’s decisions. This placed the ball on...Davidson’s 20-yard line. The Wilmington team
was unable to advance the first two downs. On the third down, a pass was attempted which was grounded in
the end-zone. This should have been counted as a touchback, but by bad judgment, Wilmington retained possession of the ball.
Here, “Bo” Sheppard, the unrivaled star for Wilmington, stepped back and placed a drop between the uprights. This made the
score 3-0. The fourth quarter went to Davidson, but the Kittens were unable to score. Two passes were completed for
a total of 50 yards. But as darkness was fast approaching, the game ended with the ball about mid-field.

D. TEAM GETTING WIRELESS OUTFIT IN BETTER SHAPE

The college wireless outfit, which has been at a standstill recently in its functioning, is being repaired by the operator,
B. L. Team, who thinks it will be giving better service now. Team has dropped out of college for the
present and is teaching at Bethel. He will remain here on the Hill if possible and he intends to take
up his work again next fall. He is now installing a new system of comparatively recent discovery which eliminates entirely
the use of the battery which has been the trouble spot with the outfit here. No further change will be
required in the outfit as it is now, the only alteration being the doing away with the battery. For the
benefit of those interested in details, it may be said that this new system consists primarily of two “choke coils”
and a small “step-down” transformer and that a 110-volt current is all the required power. It is thought that play-by-play
reports of the game here Friday will be sent to Elon; although official acceptance of this offer has not yet
been received from Elon. Team is now in a position to give a greater part of his time to the
work at nights and is optimistic in regard to the success of a wireless outfit at Davidson.

LITERARY NEWS

NEW LITERARY SOCIETY IS FORMED FROM PHI MEMBERS

Twenty-eight enthusiastic former members of the old Phi Society gathered immediately after the meeting of the Phi Society last Thursday
night and effected the organization of a new society which will begin real work about December 1st. The temporary officers
are L.A. Taylor, president, L. P. Burney, vice-president, L. A. Wooten, treasurer, W. Z. Bradford, secretary. W. M. McLeod was
appointed chairman of a committee to select a name for the society and to attend to various matters. All students,
both upperclassmen and freshmen, who are interested in literary society work and who desire to become members of this society
may hand their names in to any of the officers or attend the next meeting of the society, which will
be called soon.

EUMENEANS ARGUE WISDOM OF FAR EAST DISCUSSION

The Eu Society held its regular meeting in the hall last Thursday evening at 7:30. The regular formalities of opening
were dispensed with, the president leading the devotional exercises with Mr. H. M. Morris. The usual program was carried out.
The subject for debate was: Resolved: That the Japanese policy in the East should not be discussed in the Disarmament
Conference. Those on the affirmative were H. M. Morris, G. E. Meeks, and T. H. Patterson. The negative was upheld
by S. C. Fain, T. L. Fraser, and R. R. Jones. The decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative.
The house, deciding on the merits of the question, voted in favor of the negative. The usual declamation and orations
were omitted.

EUMENEAN FRESH SOCIETY DEBATES RAILROAD STRIKE

The Freshmen Eumenean Literary Society held a very interesting meeting last Tuesday night a week ago. The subject of the
debate was: Resolved, That in the recently averted railroad strike, the employees were not justified in their demands. The affirmative
in speaking order were J. R. Briggs, J. F. Millhour, and P. M. Patterson; while W. C. Ramsey and G.
K. Taylor opposed them. The bulk of the affirmative argument was giving proofs showing why the employees’ wages should be
lowered, and illustrating the manner in which they were striking against the Government. The negative supported their side by pointing
out how Wall Street and newspapers were against the employees. The rebuttal was the most animated part of the debate.
Taylor of the negative and Milhour of the affirmative presented especially pointed and crushing arguments. Three judges, appointed from the
Freshmen, voted two to one in favor of the affirmative, and the majority of the house voted the same way.

POLITY CLUB ELECTS TINK TAYLOR AS NEW PRESIDENT

The last meeting of the Polity Club, on Tuesday evening, November 8th, was a combination business meeting and feed. Under
the head of “Election of Officers,” Tink Taylor was elected vice-president to succeed T. M. Lowry. The topic for discussion
was that of the Disarmament Conference now in session in Washington.

Leonard Dick, ex-’22, was greeting old friends on the Hill Friday and Saturday.

PHI MEMBERS HAVE REGULAR AND IMPROMPTU ARGUMENTS

The Phi Society held its regular meeting last Thursday night. There was a well-prepared program which was carried out with
plenty of pep. The subject for debate as announced was: Resolved, That the Disarmament Conference should not discuss the Japanese
policy in the Far East. The affirmative outlined the plans for the conference and showed that there would not be
time for consideration of this subject. The negative took the stand that this was an important matter and could not
be discussed better at any other time than at this meeting of all the really great powers of the world.
The critic announced the subject for the extemporaneous debate as: Resolved: That Davidson students be allowed to vote in all
elections concerning the town good. J. C. Wool, in upholding the affirmative made his arguments mainly on legal grounds. D.
P. McGeachy upheld the negative on the grounds that we already have a student government of our own, and that
we ought to make that 100 percent efficient and leave town politics alone, for we are only temporary citizens here.

Stetson Brogues

FRESH PHI SOCIETY GETS DOWN TO REAL SERIOUSNESS

A suppressed feeling pervaded the atmosphere at the Fresh Phi meeting and every participant put forward the very best that
he had, it being the last meeting of the year. The affirmative was led by Gracy in the question of
whether the Japanese policy in the Far East should be discussed at the Disarmament Conference. He pointed out that Guam
as a naval base would command the Pacific and that it is at this time being fortified. He had a
number of good points and stated them in a clear, concise way, then followed them up well, presenting one of
the strongest debates of the evening. Brown ably led the negative, showing that the discussion of the Japanese policy would
readily fit in with the Disarmament Conference and the disarmament would not be effected while the United States and other
countries were in ignorance of the plan of Japan. The affirmative was supported by Liles in a splendid manner. In
showing that the conference on disarmament was not the place for the discussion of Japan’s policy, he did a great
deal to strengthen his side. He had his debate well in mind and presented it clearly. Wharton closed the argument
for the negative. He told that President Harding wanted to accomplish the same end as the League of Nations, only
using a different means, i.e., that of the Disarmament Conference. That President Harding had included the discussion of the Japanese
policy in the conference and that his expert advisers thought that to be best, was indicative that it must be
the wisest course to follow. He also pointed out that this is the best time to discuss the Japanese policy.
He put some pep in his debate, delivering it with a great deal of ease and backing it up well
in his rebuttal. His was possibly the best debate of the evening. The judges decided in favor of the negative.
The critic gave some parting advice to the members of the society in which he urged them to diligently pursue,
and to always keep up their society work as something that they would never have cause to regret having worked
for.

Rackets Restrung

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed
service. Send rackets by parcels post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS Co.

EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN

5 W. Fourth St. (Just off Tryon) Phone 3248
