FIFTEEN - FOR Y SERVICE THEDA Vi. FOR A io BETTER DAVIDSON YSONIAN

Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 8, 1921.

Queens College Dramatic Club Presents Interesting Plays and Dances

Young Ladies Show Thorough Training and Real Dramatic Ability

On Monday night the Dramatic Club of Queens College gave an entertainment which will long be remembered by those having
the pleasure of attending. The entertainment consisted of two one-act plays, songs by Miss Margaret Clark, and a charming and
fascinating dance scene. A pageant showing the different seasons of the year was also given.

The first play, “The Happy Day,” was presented in elegant style and was enjoyed immensely. The story was that of
a young lady who was on the verge of matrimony. Several difficulties and obstacles thickly gathered and it seemed that
the marriage would have to be called off. Vast and expensive preparations were made, however, and everything was to be
“pulled off” in grand style. Unfortunately, at this point, a cousin of the bride’s mother comes upon the scene and
wants her daughter, a most accomplished young lady “in making quilts,” to have a part in the wedding. Just as
they were about to “squabble,” the bride rushes in with her husband, who was none other than Bob McLeod, of
Davidson. At this, Bob received a great ovation and the curtain fell.

The next thing on the program was some songs, which were notably rendered by Miss Clark. A “Little Pageant of
the Seasons” was then presented and showed fine expression and was beautiful in its simplicity. A unique and captivating dance
was then given by the equally captivating Miss Abbott. Her manner was so effective that she was called back for
a bow.

The last performance was a play, “Cicely’s Cavalier.” The scene was taken back in the time of the wars between
the Cavaliers and the Puritans. Miss Dorothy Powell, the heroine of the scene, was exceedingly admirable in her decision to
the cavalier whom she was forced to marry by her brother. The old Puritan minister was well characterized by Miss
Laurie Dowling. Everyone displayed wonderful talent and it is hoped Davidson will be treated again soon.

DELTA PI KAPPA INITIATES NEW MEMBERS.

At a meeting of the Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity last Wednesday, the following men were elected to membership: A.
P. Ormand, J. M. Dunlap, A. D. King, A. C. Ormand, J. C. Bailey, R. K. Shaw, and James Sprunt.
In connection with their initiation, these gentlemen attended the Queens College Dramatic Club entertainment on Monday night in rather unusual
apparel. King appeared as an English dude and Bailey as a corn-fed lass. Shaw’s role was that of Enoch, and
his gentle mate was A. C. Ormond. Sprunt, as a Bowery Jew, led in A. P. Ormand, another representative of
the fair sex. The rear guard consisted of Possum Dunlap dressed as a tramp, who distributed parched peanuts (to himself)
throughout the performance. These men were duly initiated into the literary portion of the sacred fraternity rites on Tuesday night.

Capt. Reid Morrison of Mt. Mourne was a welcomed visitor on the hill Monday as there are several boys here
who were with him in the service overseas; he also remained for the game.

Next Sunday the Y. M. C. A. will again hold a service conducted by students. This time the fifteen delegates
to the Greenville Laymen’s Missionary Convention will speak. If the fellows describe all the events which are reported to have
happened on this trip, the evening will not be lacking in “thrillers.” Such noted yarn-spinners as Hard-Rock, Rooster, Jitney, Senator
Culbreth, the McCaskill boys, and Franklin Fricker will be among the speakers. So without a doubt, the service will prove
both interesting and helpful. The following is the complete list of speakers: H. B. Culbreth, J. S. Curry, J. M.
Dunlap, A. F. Fricker, T. M. Lowry, D. L. Mahood, G. M. Morrow, J. C. McCaskill, C. M. McCaskill, J.
M. McFadden, J. R. McKeldin, A. P. Ormond, D. C. Shaw, J. B. Sizer, and James Sprunt.

TRACK TEAM CHOSEN IN TIME TRIALS LAST SATURDAY

For the first time in the history of Davidson, there were football, baseball, and track men in uniform on Sprunt
Field during the track trials for the coming meet in Raleigh. If one had gone inside the gymnasium, he would
have found a game of basketball in progress. The results of the trials, as a whole, were very satisfactory and
Coach Grey has every reason to expect that his “cinder squad” will do better against A. & E. than they
did Saturday. Denniston and Knight walked off with two events apiece, while Gentry got on the good side of three.

In the 440-yard dash, Captain Dick was easily the winner, crossing the tape in 54.2 seconds, just four seconds behind
the record set by Brice. Leonard deserves a great deal of credit for coming out winner in this event because
he had never run the four-forty before. Big Knight, in the discus throw and shot put, did exceedingly well. He
sailed the discus for 111 feet 2 inches, just three feet behind former records. In his shot put of 36
feet 2 inches, he was only three feet behind Grey’s record.

Denniston, in the 100-yard and 220-yard dash, showed great form. We are looking for great things from Denny at Raleigh.
He ran the one hundred yards in 10.6, followed closely by Steed and Dick at 10.7 and 10.8 seconds, respectively.
In the 220-yard dash, he was easily the victor, crossing the tape in 24.4, with Steed and Dick as second
and third.

Gentry was victor in the broad jump, javelin throw, and high jump. By throwing the javelin 134 feet, he set
a new Davidson record because this event has never held a place here before. In his running broad jump of
18 feet 11 inches, he was followed a close second by Parrish. He cleared the bar at 5 feet 5
inches for the winning high jump.

Galloway had the best of the 880-yard dash, by three seconds, over his older opponent. He rounded the track twice
in 2:10.5. McBryde, winner in the mile, shows great promise of many victories for old Davidson. He ran the mile
in 4:52, just 4.5 seconds higher than the record. Streibich lost to Erwin in the 120-yard high hurdles, Erwin making
the benches in 20 seconds flat, but then Streibich won the pole vault when he cleared the bar at 9
feet 9 inches. Bill Worth showed the best form of the afternoon when, working with the regularity of a machine,
he ran eight (Continued on page 2)

Series of Lyceum Attractions

“Last but not least” may be truly said about the concert given in Shearer Hall last Thursday night by the
New York Glee Club. This last number of our lyceum was certainly as good as, if not better, than any
of the preceding ones. The program was well selected and varied enough to suit everyone present. The soul is stirred
by music either to sadness or happiness. We were carried through all the stages of both and back again as
we sat there and listened to that quartette. The whole performance was enjoyed from the time they began with Tennyson's
“Blow, Bugle, Blow,” till the last strains of “The Lullaby” had died away. “It takes a heap of living in
a house to make it home” was the subject of a pianologue by the tenor, and we all began to
wish for that place as we listened to “The Same Old, Dear Old Place,” and “O, Mother Mine.” Their version
of “The Bass Viol” and parody on “The Old Oaken Bucket” were both very good. The negro dialect songs were
excellent and were well rendered. There were many who wanted more popular songs, but what they did give was fine,
as were the piano selections of popular music. Of the former, some of the best were “Tell Me Little Gipsy,”
and “The Old Fashioned Garden;” of the latter, selections from the musical comedy “Apple Blossoms.” Each of the quartette displayed
a musical ability toa marked degree, and furnished an excellent entertainment which was enjoyed by all present.

Good Trips Planned for Scrub Baseball Team
Wild Kittens to Have Several Games Away From Home

“Go get 'em Wildkittens,” expresses the feeling of everyone on the Hill toward the second string men who are largely
responsible for the success won by the Varsity in all forms of college athletics. Baseball is not an exception to
this rule either, so Assistant Manager McGeachy has been very busy for the past few days writing other institutions in
(Continued on page 2)

CALENDAR

Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi. Society meeting.
Friday—7:30 p.m., Movies: “Fatty” Arbuckle in “The Round Up.” 9:00 p.m., Bible Class Leaders meeting. 9:00 p.m., Reporters’ Club meeting.
Election of officers and new members.
Saturday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. N. C. State, at Charlotte.
Sunday—10 a.m., Bible Classes, chapter 176 3:30 p.m., Dr. Hood's Bible Class. 6:15 p.m., “Y” Service.
Monday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Elon, at Elon.
Tuesday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. U. of N. C., at Chapel Hill.
Wednesday—3:30 p.m., Baseball: Davidson vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.

FOURTH ISSUE OF MAGAZINE TO BE OUT THIS WEEK

The fourth issue of the Davidson College Magazine has already been sent to the press and is expected to be
out by the last of the week. This is an unusually interesting number on account of the humorous articles which
it contains; there is among these the feature article by Dr. Thornton Whaling on “The Seriousness of Humor.” Besides several
humorous articles, W. W. Carter and W. E. Miley have contributed short stories which are especially good. There are various
other short stories, sketches, and essays that help to make this an unusually interesting issue. There will be two more
issues before commencement, so there is plenty of time for those who have any literary ambitions to still burst forth
in flame. Credit will be given in the English department for any articles that are accepted by the Magazine.

Columbia Seminary Deputation Makes a Strong Appeal for Life Service
Quartette and Speakers Hold Students at “Y” Service

The deputation from Columbia Seminary wound up its activities on the campus with the “Y” service Sunday evening, and this
meeting has been pronounced one of the most beneficial to the student body of any held this year. Several men
decided to enter the life of service, and many more were started to considering the matter as a result of
the service.

The quartet, consisting of Messrs. G. Belk, J. B. Belk, Barber, and Yandle, rendered several selections, among which were “When
the Mists Have Rolled Away,” “Have Thine Own Way, Lord,” and “My Son, Give Me Thine Heart.” The opening prayers
were made by Messrs. S. B. Hay, a graduate of Davidson in the class of ‘16, and Frank Yandle, a
graduate of the Moody Bible Institute. The first speaker was Mr. George Belk, a distinguished alumnus of P. C., who
spoke of the needs and joys of the life of service. Mr. Belk graphically brought out the difference in his
mission at Davidson last year and now; then he was here with a football for S.C., but now with a
Bible for Jesus Christ. According to the speaker, the greatest game is not football but winning souls for God, and
the Church is looking to the men of Davidson and other colleges to play this game. Every man’s life must
be one of service but primarily it should be for Jesus Christ. As his last point, Mr. Belk brought out
the value of a human soul by the Bible quotation, “What shall it profit a man if he gain the
whole world and lose his own soul.”

Mr. J. B. Belk next spoke on the plan that God has for every man’s life. Mr. Belk said that
when he left Davidson he was “a ship adrift without a rudder,” but one day he learned that God had
a plan for him, and since that time he has been trying to follow it carefully. You may be doing
only small things, but how great would be the possibilities if you would yield to Him. Christ asks for the
right of way in your life. Will you yield to Him?

Mr. R. C. Clontz, the last speaker, presented the great opportunities that Gospel work offers and the call to service.
He outlined the needs of different countries and told how Davidson and other colleges must supply this need. The student
body is deeply indebted to these young men from the seminary (Continued on page 3)

ALL ABOARD FOR CHARLOTTE!
Wofford Defeated 11 to 8 in Loosely Played Game
Both Teams Hit Freely—Hunter Pitches Brilliant Three Innings

In the slowest game played on Sprunt Field in many moons, the Davidson Wildcats pounded out 16 hits for 11
runs and defeated Wofford. The game was a slow, drawn-out affair, taking two hours and a half to play, 26
hits being driven out and 19 runs driven in before Holcombe ended the farce by missing three of Hunter’s fast
ones. If Bill Shakespeare had been present he would doubtless have called the game “A Comedy of Errors.”

The one redeeming feature of the day's play was the pitching of Hunter for the Presbyterians. It was his first
college game, and he showed that he had the makings of a real pitcher in him. Only nine men came
to the plate in the two and two-thirds innings he pitched, and seven of these hit the air—and nothing else.
With his fast one working to perfection he had the Methodists completely at his mercy. More than once the ball
was in Wrenn’s big mitt before they could get their bats off their shoulders.

Wofford drew first blood in the second when they pushed one across on an error and a hit. But the
Wildcats came back in their half and counted three times on five hits and a wild pitch. Currie connected with
one for two sacks in this frame and two cats came home. Wofford got two and Davidson one in the
fourth. But the fifth was the big inning. Wofford jumped into the lead again on two errors with a sacrifice
hit sandwiched in between. In Davidson's half Cassell hit through short and Brown lived when Rhame booted his grounder. Crawford
filled the sacks when everybody ran away from his grounder. Shep came through in the pinch and brought two home
with a hit to right. Wrenn loaded the sacks on a fielder’s choice. (The fielder chose the wrong one). Pat
and Shep counted on Johnson's Texas leaguer. Hodgin reached first on an error. With all the bases populated and none
gone, Davidson looked ripe for several more runs, but Wrenn was caught coming home and Cop didn’t get to third
in time. Gross’ quick throw to second found Billy sleeping and the inning was gone into history. (Continued on page
5)

COWBOY SINGER TO VISIT DAVIDSON

A singing cowboy full of cowboy songs! At last we are going to have a chance to see whether or
not the movies and Zane Grey have been fooling us. Mr. John Lomax is a graduate of Harvard and the
University of Texas, and for many years has been a cowboy. He is visiting the colleges of the East, lecturing
and singing. His subject here will be “Cowboy Songs.” He gives in this lecture a picture of cowboy life, tells
cowboy stories, and sings cowboy songs. Harvard enjoyed him so much that they made him give a second program. At
Yale, where he entertained several months ago, they say his songs and language are still heard on the campus. At
the University of S. S. the students all said it was the best entertainment ever given in “that old chapel.”
Professor Reed Smith said, “The program was a rich mine of cowboy lore—his songs, wild stories of adventure, humor, pathos,
and philosophy of life—and every moment was interesting.” Mr. Lomax will give a free lecture at Davidson some time in
May.
