THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 6, 1921.

ATHLETIC NEWS

On the Gridiron

Revenge is sweet, but still we have only an even break with P. C. The first game between the two
institutions ended in a 0-0 tie. Last year P. C. took the long end of a 7-0 clash. This year
evened the honors.

—Wildcats—

“Tech in Atlanta.” Those fatal words have appeared on Davidson’s and many others' schedules during the past few years, and
in almost every case it has spelled defeat for Tech’s opponents. In 1917 the Wildcats made a name for themselves
by being the only team to score over one touchdown on the Golden Tornado that year. Since then they have
not done quite so well, but this year the Engineers will face a machine in every way worthy to bear
the name Wildcats, and the story may be different when the final whistle blows Saturday.

—Wildcats—

Get out Friday and give the team that same big old send-off. Kick over the pepper box and show ’em
we're backing them, win or lose, to the limit.

—Wildcats—

Furman continued her victorious beginning by adding Erskine to her string 63-0. Indeed, they will be strong opponents on Thanksgiving
day.

—Wildcats—

In intersectional contests last Saturday the North and South split even. The Middies swamped N. C. State, while Maryland took
a hard-fought game from Rutgers by a margin of three points.

—Wildcats—

Wake Forest, week after next, looms upon the horizon as a strong opponent. Heckman seems to be their “ace in
the hole.” He is versatile, being able to punt, pass, or run with the ball.

—Wildcats—

Carolina takes on Yale Saturday. The Yale team, yet, has not shown its usual drive and punch, so the North
Carolinians figure they have a good chance to plant the oval under Yale’s goal posts. Hope they will.

—Wildcats—

Class basketball starts tomorrow. The Soph and Fresh, natural enemies, will battle for supremacy on the court. The game should
be replete with thrills and good basketball.

—Wildcats—

Following is the bill of fare for Friday and Saturday.

Friday, October 7th
Clemson vs. P. C., at Clemson.

Saturday, October 8th
Centre vs. V. P. I., at Danville.
Furman vs. Georgia, at Greenville.
U. S. C. vs. Newberry, at Columbia.
Trinity vs. William & Mary, at Durham.
Tulane vs. Mississippi, at New Orleans.
V. M. I. vs. Wake Forest, at Lexington.
Virginia vs. Richmond, at Charlottesville.
W. & L. vs. Emory & Henry, at Lexington.

—Wildcats—

Lafayette tied a 6-0 can to Pitt last Saturday. The defeat of the Smoky City lads came as one of
the biggest upsets of football dope in recent years. With one minute to play, Pitt had the ball on Lafayette’s
one-yard line and in attempting a line buck on the fourth down lost nine yards. Pitt’s line must have been
nervous.

WILDCATS READY TO TACKLE GOLDEN TORNADO OF TECH.

As the fog horns of the press sound their doleful warning and the weather prophets of sportdom serve notice of
approaching “high winds,” the determination of the Wildcats mounts high and a strong defense is being worked out to withstand
the violent onrushes of the “Golden Tornado.” We are told that “Acolus” Alexander, a. his, untamed hurricanes for aia Coach
Wooly’s ire of the Tech whirlwinds, Moore (i) Shepherd 4 Ervin 3 Hendrix SEH Ai ene R SS Vee McAllister
Ivo Durant ae C1) Wilson soc. -.2-2sccncen-= 3° 6 Pearce *: a 3 2 swept from their feet in the
fury of the tornado. Coach Alexander is not hampered by the lack of either old or new material for the
shaping of his stormy eleven, and the scores of the past two games indicate that the Georgia Engineers will make
a record this year that will outshine that of all past seasons. The Wake Forest Baptists were subdued by the
Georgians and were forced to accept a 42-0 defeat. The same medicine was administered to Oglethorpe last Saturday, the final
count being 41-0. The old saying that “a team is as good as its substitutes” will place Tech in the
front ranks of grid teams of the nation. Their substitutes are many in number and their playing qualities are of
the superlative degree. In fact, to name the regular men, as the line-up, as yet, is a tentative affair. With
such men back in the harness as Dewey Scaroboro, Frank Ferst, Captain Judy Harlan, Red Barron, the Staton brothers, Jimmy
Brewster, Pinky Hunt, Jack McDonough, Dummy LeBay, Daddy Amis, Oscar Davis, Red Murphy, and Claire Frye, and numerous others, Tech
has no cause for worry over her grid chances with the teams of the South, and never were prospects brighter
to outrank her Northern opponents. The Wildcat spirit has never been dazed by the elements and though Coach Alex turns
loose a formidable, gusty blast, he will be met with that principle of the jungle, “fear nothing, and no one.”

DAVIDSON ELEVEN DEFEATS (Continued from page 1)

their 20-yard line. Durant punted to midfield where the ball remained until the half ended. On the third play of
the third quarter, Long tore up the whole line on a wild 18-yard dash over center. A little later he
punted over the Palmetto Presbyterian’s goal line. On the next play Hieldman fumbled, Brice recovering on the 20-yard line. A
few moments later Moore went over for the lone touchdown. In the last quarter Long intercepted a pass on P.
C.’s 42-yard line. The Wildcats soon had the ball on the 3-yard line but a pass to Black was wide
and was grounded in the end zone.

The line-up and summary:
Davidson POSITION P. C.
Faison RE Clowney
Clarke RT Kirven
Long, W. T. RG Barksdale
Brice C Miller
Hunter LG Williamson
Davis LT Bomar
Schenck, c LE Mason
Bethea Q Montgomery
Moore RH Wilson
Erwin LH Pearce
Shepherd FB Durant, c.

Time of periods, 12, 10; substitutions, Davidson, Field for Hunter, Black for Faison, Sorrell for Davis, Long for Erwin, Hendrix
for Shepherd, McAlister for Moore. P. C., Hiendman for Montgomery, Wade for Bomar, Wood for Pearce. Referee, Williams (Virginia), umpire,
“Rip” Major, (Auburn), headlinesman, “Dopie” Major, (Clemson).

D.C. P.C.
First downs 8 0
Yards penalized 80 0
Average kick-off 44 40
Average return 18 18
Average punt 38 29
Average runback 3 0
Passes attempted 14 10
Passes completed 4 3
Yards Gained On passes 76 30
On running plays 233 13
Totals 309 43
Yards Lost On running plays 18 9
Net total

DAVIDSON GOLF TEAM LOSES HARD GAME TO SALISBURY

“Fore!” Ping. Away the little white ball rides and so the play begins.

Place: Links of the Salisbury Country Club.
Time: 2:30 p.m., Saturday, Oct. 1st.
Characters: Wearing Davidson colors, Bachman and Charnley, Gracy and Professor Wood. Wearing Salisbury colors, Sigmon, Earle, Lloyd, Walker. Gallery of
one hundred.

The plot is exciting. For the first time the Salisbury Golf Club handed the lemon to the wearers of the
Red and Black. Playing aggregate score for the 18-hole match, the team of Sigmon and Earle took care of Professor
Wood and Gracy to the tune of 14 up on the 11th hole, while Walker and Lloyd were pitting away
their match with Charnley and Bachman 12 up on the 15th.

The match was of a class par excellence with Fresh Bachman for Davidson easily the individual star of the day.
Until some unlucky driving on the 12th got him into trouble, his playing was little short of sensational. The diminutive
golfer seemed possessed of an uncanny ability to drive for a trye, to approach in capital form and to putt
well. Although unaccustomed to the sand greens he showed up well and with more experience evinces promise of becoming a
real contender for college honors. Charnley, a beginner of two months’ experience, played a strong game, as did Professor Wood
and Gracy.

For Salisbury every man was a star, Sigmon showing up best. The work of his team was as regular as
clockwork and of the “never give up” variety. While the score would indicate a walkover for Salisbury, the matches on
the whole were unusually hard played and close. Under the coaching of Dr. Arbuckle the D. C. club swingers are
working for a comeback, when Salisbury stages a return match here the latter part of this month.

Scores of First 9 Holes.
Davidson: Bachman 50, Charnley 57, Professor Wood 51, Gracy 55.
Salisbury: Sigmon 44, Earle 48, Walker 46, Lloyd 48.

FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT NOW HOLDING ATTENTION

The preliminaries of the fall tennis tournamentThis week officially inaugurated what bids fair to be one of the most successful
years in the history of the sport at Davidson. The object of the tournament is to determine, by elimination among
the 31 applicants, the Varsity team, from which the college champion will be selected. With all last year’s team back,
the prospects are that a team will be turned out which will lead both Carolina and Trinity a merry race
for honors in the state tournament. By a new ruling, any man in the student body will be eligible to
compete for the coveted positions on the team. Previously, the four champions in the tournament definitely composed the team, but
this year, there will be a fifth man opened to challenge to the student body and who in turn may
challenge any member on the team. Finances will not be lacking to promote the game this year; for the faculty
has set aside $125 for the advancement of tennis. This money, taken from the blanket fee, will go for new
courts, nets, and improvements. “Red” Whitener, an ex-Trinity man, and last year’s state champion, is teaching at Cornelius, and it
is hoped that he will give some of his time coaching the team. As the grand culmination of the season,
the N. C. State Tennis Association, of which S. H. Bradley, of Davidson, is president, expects to run a state
tournament probably at Greensboro. Last year, Davidson finished third in this tournament, but this year she can be looked upon
as a strong contender for the state laurels. Following is a list of the entrants for the tournament: Cunningham vs.
Dunlap. Gretschmar vs. Ives. Bradford vs. Price. Myers vs. Davidson. Otmond vs. Staley. White vs. Luckie. Fraser vs. Jones, J.
R. Jones, W. T., vs. A. Bye. Morris vs. Wilkinson. Gamble vs. Moss, H. O. Keith vs. Patterson.

LITERARY NEWS

EU SENIOR SOCIETY ELECTS HENRY PATTERSON TREAS.

The Eu Society held its third regular meeting last Thursday night. Under the head of general business, Henry Patterson was
elected treasurer of the society for this year. The debate for the evening was on the subject, “Resolved, that the
air service should supplant the navy in the nation’s first line of defense.” The affirmative was upheld by Price, Sharpe,
and Miller, while the negative was defended by McGukin, Roberts, and Weeks. On the whole, the debaters lacked pep. Miller
was the best debater of the evening. His arguments were clear and to the point, and his rebuttal was excellent.
Neither side seemed to win a decisive battle, as the judges were two to one in favor of the negative,
while the house was on the side of the affirmative. The best part of the program came last. A declamation
by Walthall made even the strong men of the house weep. After this, D. L. Mahood, in a powerful oration
on “Painless Surgery,” froze the tears in his hearers’ eyes, brought forth by Walthall’s declamation, and caused their hair to
stand on end when he told of seeing a woman cut in twain with a crosscut saw and then brought
back to life without a drop of blood being shed or a shriek coming from the patient. In a second
oration, E. H. Houghton quelled the fears of the audience and brought it back to sane thinking again on the
broad and stupendous subject “Man.” The philosophy student proved that man is not “a beast of passions and jealousies,” as
some have called him, but is a sane and rational creature, made in the likeness, by the power, and for
the glory of the great Architect of the universe.

D PHI FRESHMAN SOCIETY

The Philanthropic Freshman Literary Society held its weekly meeting last Monday night at 7:15. The program included a debate and
a declamation. The subject for debate was, “Resolved, that under existing conditions the United States was justified in making a
separate treaty with Germany.” Those upholding the affirmative were H. M. Wells, T. B. Thompson, and J. C. Brown. Those
of the negative were Abernathey, Carr, and Brown. H. M. Wells opened the fight for the affirmative and presented a
very dignified and impressive argument. Brown represented the negative as the first speaker. He attacked vigorously the character of Germany,
showing that the separate treaty gave Germany too much power. T. B. Thompson now took the floor for the affirmative.
His logic was good and his principles sound. Mr. Carr followed Mr. Thompson and delivered a very good talk. He
also attacked Germany’s honor, but from a different angle and his line of thought was very interesting. J. C. Brown
was the third speaker on the affirmative. He argued from the point of view of business, showing the value to
the United States of the commerce which has again started, due to the treaty of peace which ended the state
of war and established trade relations. John Abernathey was appointed by the chair to take the negative, as one of
those at first appointed was absent. His points were well presented and held the attention of all. The rebuttals were
excellent and the refutations were snappy and to the point. The next thing on the program was a declamation by
Mr. Gracey, on “The American Patriot,” which everyone appreciated. Devotional exercises were held by Mr. Fleming and then the critic
made his report, instructing the new men in the art of speaking easily and criticizing their mistakes. The meeting was
then adjourned until the next regular time, Monday night, October 10th, at 7:15.

EU FRESHMAN SOCIETY

The Freshmen of the Eumenean Society met for the second time this year on Monday evening to discuss one of
the vital questions of the day: “Resolved, That under the existing conditions today the United States Government was justified in
signing a separate peace treaty with Germany.” The humor which the speakers evinced during the rebuttal, although of a rather
boisterous nature, relieved the monotony of the first speeches. Messrs. Beers, Hopkins, and Mitchell spoke on the affirmative, and Messrs.
Good and Moomaw upheld the negative. The third speaker on the negative was not present. The decision of the judges
was unanimously in favor of the affirmative. The vote of the house was practically unanimous in favor of the negative.
The critic advised that the subject for debate be studied more thoroughly by the Freshmen on future programs. The debate
was followed by three good declamations given by Messrs. Regin, Caldwell, and Purdy. Mr. Purdy’s delivery of “The One Hoss
Shay” came as a fitting ending to the program. By a vote of the society, the date of meeting was
changed to Tuesday night at 7:15. The fines for unbecoming position were decidedly less than those imposed during the last
meeting.

D. PHI ORATORS DEBATE ON NATIONAL DEFENSE ISSUE

Last Thursday night, immediately after the pep meeting in chapel, the Phi Society held its regular meeting. After the usual
preliminaries, the subject for debate was announced as “Resolved, that under existing conditions the United States was justified in making
a separate peace with Germany.” J. T. Knight and D. P. McGeachy defended the affirmative side of the question on
the following grounds: That international relations would be improved; relations between the two great political parties in America would be
improved; and that the world’s economic situation would be very much nearer normal. Following lines similar to those of the
affirmative, the negative opposed this proposition, claiming that it would be disastrous to the world’s economic condition, that our prestige
with our former allies would be destroyed, and that it would hurt our international relations generally. The decision was two
to one for the negative. L. A. Taylor gave an inspiring oration on “Who Lifted the Lid Off of Hell?”
He called attention to the extent of suffering and injustice throughout the world, and explained that the thinking college men
of the world were the only men who could remedy the situation. The closing exercises of the evening was an
extemporaneous debate between Henderson and Gibson. Henderson defended the query, “Resolved, that Davidson should establish a standard class in law.”
But the Webster-like delivery of Gibson won for him the unanimous decision of the judges.

We have one of the best tennis racket restringers anywhere in the country. We can give you quick and guaranteed
service. Send racket by parcel post.

CAROLINA SPORTING GOODS CO.
EVERYTHING FOR THE OUTDOOR MAN
111 W. Fourth St. (Corner of Tryon)
Phone 3248
