THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 25, 1921.

“THE HOUSE OF SERVICE”
The Double Guarantee, Free Tuning Plan
Write for Catalogue, Terms

For Nearly a Century Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control of the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its Faculty was never more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information address,
The Executive Office,
Thornton Whaling, President
Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary
Columbia, S. C.

BY J.M. DUNLAP

This is our last spasm. No, Violet wasn’t that kind of a dog.

Given Gratis. Inspired by ‘Crack.’

Being altruistic by nature we wish to submit the following advice to our successor. The following is the result of experience—we know whereof we speak.

1. Have your life insured—you may not be worth anything but you need not tell that to the agent.

2. Don’t jibe a professor under whom you have a ticket—that’s powerful risky business for he who laughs last laughs best. We recommend dips for both Seniors and Freshmen. Sheepskin for Seniors—creosote for Freshmen.

3. If you are now sending the Davidsonian to your girl cancel the subscription—at once. Get a standing excuse to leave college the day the Davidsonian comes out—and by all means use it.

4. In picking out men to horse size should take precedence over disposition—this rule has no exceptions.

5. Helper says that he doesn’t know the name of every fellow here, but he has made four Fetes so you’ll have his number.

6. Hit the commissary—then loaf.

7. If you have any hesitancy about using a joke—don’t use it.

8. Remember—discretion is the better part of valor.

For this hot weather take a swim in the tank. Get your tickets at the commissary. (adv.)

9. When you hear the column kicked just bear in mind that it’s being read—that's more than you can say for the rest of it. Also remember—the Davidson Shipping Board has not been dissolved.

10. And when you hear the column Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star.

We notice in the Charlotte Observer of March 15th, that Cecil Dew has gone in for poetry.

Preston (Willie P.) Nesbit found the knife while wandering through the spacious halls of the Swannanoa-Berkley Hotel about 12 o'clock last Friday night.

“Wow!” She (to F. S. Johnson) — “You're a lemon!”

Advocate of Reform. News article says, “Anti-Dumping Legislation to be rushed.” This is indeed timely for spring continues to draw nigh.

A COMPLETE LINE OF SPRING CLOTHES
THE RALEIGH
Charlotte's The Peanut Parcher favors some Anti-Dumping Legislation.

Frank—“If I'm a lemon, squeeze me.”

Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and DunlapHats; | Best Cafe Water-Throwing legislation. Drowning | She—“I mean you're sour and seedy!” French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts: | § | would be an appropriate punishment for Mark Cross Gloves. § this crime. Finis. teres PY We also have in mind Scngnenay | I with mingled testing of eet | = THE TATE-BROWN CO. and regret that this last manuscript is turned in. May we meet again some for the guys who think it humorous to throw burning cigarettes from the balcony on top of those in the pit at the picture show. Our motto: Let the punishment suit the crime. CAMPUSISMS. PROGRAM | Established 1673 Good old times are coming again to Davidson: Square dances and Virginia A Modern Parable. A Davidson student died. A. Bl. Felting Manufacturing. As is the case with all good students | reels! Jewelry Co. his soul was borne upward to the Pearly Gate. St. Peter came forth and | Pat McGeachy journeyed to Cornelius Manufacturers greeted him with a smile. Saturday on an advertising tour for the Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry “Welcome my good man,” said St. | week’s baseball games. 218 N. Liberty Street BALTIMORE, MD. Peter, extending his hand, “from whence haileth thou?” W. L. Roddy, Jack Brown, and J. S. Moore spent the weekend at home in Rock Hill, S. C. “From Davidson College,” replied the student. “Fine,” said St. Peter. “We have a large delegation of Davidson men here. Davidson men are always well qualified. I suppose that you, of course, have permission to be absent from college.” Thursday, Friday and Saturday, March 24th, 25th and 26th New track material showed up in the sprint to the fire last Thursday night. Watch out on Field Day. “No,” replied the student, bowing his Dwight Chalmers was off the hill last The Selwyn Hotel head with shame, “I could not get my week on a volunteer deputation to Catawba College, Newton, N. C. FIRE PROOF excuse in time. I died on short notice.” Direction Charles H. Shontand “What!” exclaimed St. Peter, “absent Among those going to Charlotte this Located in the heart without permission? An unpardonable past week were: C. J. Matthews, K. M. of Charlotte conven- sin! Down with you! There is no place Crawford, W. Z. Bradford, C. H. Boykin, ient to railroad sta- here for one who commits so heinous a S. H. McDonald, F. J. Wright, G. L. Irwin, J. A. Beaver, J. J. Stockard, H. H. tions, street cars, busi- crime.” ness and shopping cen- “But I didn’t have time,” explained the Massey, J. H. Sample, C. D. Tuller, John Adams, R. C. Brake, F. S. Shaw, E. S. ters. student, “I dropped dead.” “That makes no difference,” said St. Faison, M. P. James, G. H. Cornelson, Peter. “Law is law—down with you!” Ed. Hamerick, and J. A. McCrary. Table d'hote lunches, So the student sadly retraced his steps Among those taking short trips were: 12:00 to 2:00 P.M.; and descended into eternal torment R. L. Stowe, and R. H. Smith to Belmont; C. H. Boykin to Statesville; K. T. where he suffers always for his crime. Rooms: $1.50 and up; McCrary to Mooresville; H. E. Wyman with bath $2.00 and up. Haw, Haw. to his home in Estill, S. C.; and R. L. McLeod to Greensboro and Durham. Our system of artesian water flowing through the building. Johnie Grover, W. E. Crane, Ray Daubles, and Bobbie Long spent weekend in Statesville. New honorary fraternity at Davidson is proposed. Qualification for membership: Distinguished service in firefighting. R. O. T. C. Mitchell received a letter last week reading: “Here's a keen opportunity. Use it!” Inclosed was a safety razor blade. H. C. Larzelere, Prop. If we lived in Charlotte we don’t believe we would get off the train at Juneau and walk, but that is what they tell on D. R. Freeman.