THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 28, 1921

Alumni News

DAVID M. GASTON DIES AFTER LONG ILLNESS
Was Student Here During S. A. T. C. and Succeeding Spring.

DAVID M. GASTON. On January 19th, David M. Gaston, ex-'22, of Aberdeen, N. C., died in a sanatorium at Clifton Springs, N. Y. He had not been well since having an attack of influenza while at Davidson his freshman year, and from that time declined in health. For many months he had been very sick, and had fought with the great amount of will power that he possessed, to recover, but sickness had gripped him tightly.

David entered Davidson in the fall of 1918, and in a short time was one of the best known new men on the Hill. He was a shining light in scholarship, barely missing the honor-roll his first term. His talent for music was remarkable for he played the violin beautifully, had a splendid voice and ably rendered service in the church music. But it was in neither of these two qualities that David really stood out. He was a prominent figure at all times in all Christian activities. It was in the Christian Endeavor, Bible classes and mid-week prayer services that he seemed to pour his whole soul.

His health did not permit him to return his second year and he remained at home hoping to regain his strength so as to return the following fall. But his condition showed no improvement and the next spring he went to Charlotte, where he remained under treatment for several months. He seemed to improve and returned to his home last summer. Near the first of last November he had a setback and grew very weak. He then went to Clifton Springs at which place he died.

The writer knew him well and has never known a more perfect Christian character in every respect. His great hosts of friends here and elsewhere that he is known testify to his goodness. He is survived by his father, Rev. V. R. Gaston, ’92, mother, two sisters, and a brother. Our deepest sympathy goes out to these, his loved ones, in their bereavement.

—9000 for the Famine Sufferers—

HERE AND THERE AMONG OUR ALUMNI

George Howard, Jr., '18, of Tarboro,

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS RANKS HIGH AS BUSINESS MAN
Lawrence Shakleford Holt Has Done Much for Industry in North Carolina.

Lawrence Shakleford Holt was born in Alamance county, near Burlington, N. C., May 17, 1851. He was the son of Edwin M. and Emily Holt. He was educated at Dr. Alexander Wilson’s School at Melville, N. C., and at Horner Military School then at Oxford, N. C. After finishing his preparatory training he entered Davidson College in the fall of 1868. Young Holt was anxious to get into business and in 1868 went into a wholesale grocery concern in Charlotte. On April 2, 1872 he was married to Miss Margaret Locke Erwin of Burke county. He was an organizer in 1874 and for many years a director of the Commercial National Bank, of Charlotte. In 1877 he received from his father one-fifth interest in Alamance and Carolina Cotton Mills and became actively identified with the business. He built in 1883 with his brother L. Banks, the Belmont Cotton Mills of Burlington, N. C. With others, he purchased Altamahock Cotton Mills in 1884 (now Holt, Grant and Holt), The Lafayette (now the Aurora) cotton mills and the Hiawatha (now the Gun) cotton mills. He was an incorporator and director of Durham and Southern Railway Company, and an officer and member of many corporations. Chief among these is Lawrence S. Holt and Sons, of which he is the senior member. But his greatness in the business world is due chiefly to his far-seeing ideas to produce harmony between employer and employees. He is said to be the first manufacturer in the South, voluntarily to shorten the hours of labor, which he did in 1886 and again in 1902. His present address is Burlington, N. C.

REMARKABLE INTEREST SHOWN IN EU. SOCIETY.
Judges Decide That Movies Are Not Detrimental.

The regular weekly meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society held lastSaturday night was voted the best in many weeks. Many times during the debate the house was convulsed in laughter; all fully enjoyed the discussion and it is hoped that the society can again have subjects on the same order. The question was, “Resolved, that moving pictures are a menace to a community.” Those on the affirmative were Messrs. King, Wildman, Luckie, and Jones, R. R. Their opponents were Ogden, McCutchen, Jas, Toney, and Cox. E. E. Houghton was on for declamation and Jas. McCaskill delivered an oration. The debate was a regular “give and take” on both sides. Frank Wildman’s eloquent denunciation of the evils of such pictures as “The Scarlet Woman,” “The Virtuous Vamp,” and “Male and Female,” was indeed uplifting; while Ogden’s words on the good of Mack Sennett’s Bathing Beauties were certainly exhilarating. The negative attempted to prove that moving pictures are not a menace to the morals of a community nor are they a detriment because they improve the historical knowledge, literary taste, and scientific interests of people. The affirmative attempted to show the detriment rendered to the morals of a community. The decision both of the judges and of the house was in favor of the negative. The selection from Daniel Webster's “Speech of a Prosecuting Attorney” rendered by Houghton was delivered so forcefully that it was without criticism. Joe McCaskill in his oration suggested that hereafter there be at Davidson a financial manager of student activities as well as the regular student managers.

——$000 for the Famine Sufferers——

TOWN NEWS.

Dr. Frazer Hood attended a luncheon given by the insurance men of Charlotte last Monday evening. Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Potts have started housekeeping in the home of Miss Bona Potts, located on South Main street. Friends of Mr. W. A. Jetton are very glad indeed to see him able to be out again. Lieutenant Ellis and his family are heartily welcomed into the community. Miss Priscilla Hunt has the measles. Mrs. Alice Robinson gave a birthday dinner last Wednesday in honor of her mother, Mrs. Baskerville, who was seventy-five years old. Among those present were Mrs. Wharey, Mrs. Monroe, and Mrs. Violet Currie. Mr. T. S. Baskerville spent the weekend with his sister Mrs. Alice Robinson.

——$000 for the Famine Sufferers——

Have that OLD SUIT or HAT CLEANED or DYED They will look new The Ben Vonde Co. The best Dyers in the South Agency At the Powerhouse

Mr. Howard will go to the N. C. College for Women about February 1st, where he will teach and also act as principal of the Normal training school. Mr. Howard was for some time superintendent of Edgecomb county schools and as such made a splendid record in the consolidation of schools. Rev. J. S. Cousar, '14, now stationed at Okazaki, Japan, has been married to Miss Sarah Hansel. Because of the condition of his eyes, Rev. H. A. Scott, '16, has resigned his pastoral work and will train in engineering at Georgia Tech in the hope that he can do foreign work in this line. Rev. C. S. Matthews, of Bristol, Va., has removed to Shelbyville, Ky.

——$000 for the Famine Sufferers——

VISITORS ON HILL.

Mr. and Mrs. Bogart, of Greensboro, N. C., parents of Wm. Bogart, '24, were visitors here last Sunday. Dr. D. P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga., visited his son D. P. McGeachy, Jr., '22, last weekend. Mr. and Mrs. J. K. Wright, of Charlotte, parents of J. K. Wright, Jr., were visitors here last Saturday afternoon.

But, consider all that Camels offer you! Any one of Camels many points of absolute superiority makes them a delight to the most fastidious cigarette smoker! But, consider all that Camels pass you:— Unequalled quality—the wonderful Camel blend of choice Turkish and choice Domestic tobaccos—a flavor as distinctive and refreshing as it is appetizing—smooth mellow mildness never before attained in a cigarette—freedom from any unpleasant cigaretty odor! And, when you compare Camels with any cigarette in the world at any price, you will note that Camels never tire your taste, no matter how liberally you smoke. Camels are sold everywhere in scientifically sealed packages of 20 cigarettes for 20 cents.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO. Winston-Salem, N. C.