GET: CONQUER FLORIDA CITADEL TERCELY | HE: t. Why Aber i i a | q ’ FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. VIII. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 11, 1921. No. 18

Eleven Colleges Represented at First Meeting of N. C. Press Association

Next Meeting to be Held at Davidson in April—J. Eris First President of Organization

The first meeting of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Press Association was held in Chapel Hill on Saturday, February 5th, at
the invitation of the University Tar Heel. Eleven of the leading colleges in the State were represented and the roll
call showed delegates from 16 college publications. The Davidson delegation consisted of J. Eris Cassell, Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian; Carl
H. Long, Editor-in-Chief of the 1921 Quips and Cranks; D. L. Mahood, Exchange Editor of the Davidson College Magazine, and
John M. Gaston, Literary Editor of The Davidsonian.

Afternoon Session.

The afternoon session was held in the Y. M. C. A. cabinet room of the University. Dr. Chase, President of
the University, addressed a word of welcome to the delegates. Dr. C. E. Graham, head of the History Department of
the University, spoke of the possibilities of such an association, and commended the originators of the project for their interest
in starting such a movement. The business of the meeting was devoted largely to discussions and the organization of the
association. Daniel L. Grant, Editor-in-Chief of the Tar Heel, was elected temporary chairman, and D. L. Mahood (Davidson), temporary secretary.
It was decided that the general activities of the association should be: (1) The exchange of interesting news items; (2)
Contests for magazines; (3) Contests for newspapers; (4) Semi-annual conferences for the general discussions of journalistic matters.

Banquet.

At 8:30 o'clock the convention met again to partake of an excellent banquet given by the Tar Heel at the
“Cabin.” The table was beautifully decorated and the menu was excellent. D. L. Grant acted as toastmaster. J. Eris Cassell
(Davidson), chairman of the Convention Committee, made a full report and a constitution was adopted. C. H. Long (Davidson) extended
an invitation to the association to hold its next meeting in Davidson. This invitation was unanimously accepted.

The election of officers then took place and terminated as follows: J. Eris Cassell (Davidson), President; Miss Marie Edgerton (Salem),
First Vice-President; Carroll W. Weathers (Wake Forest), Second Vice-President; D. L. Mahood (Davidson), Secretary; Miss Anne C. Fulton (N. C.
C. W.), Treasurer. At intervals the University quartette gave some college songs which were well appreciated. Professor Hibbard, of the
Journalistic Department, gave a talk on the seven major points of college journalism. Tyre C. Taylor (Carolina), fresh from the
glories of the Pennsylvania debate, spoke of the editorial problems of the monthly magazine.

Representation.

The colleges represented were the University, Davidson, Trinity, Wake Forest, State College, Guilford, Elon, North Carolina College for Women, Queens,
Meredith, and Salem. Davidson awaits the pleasure of entertaining this group.

The infirmary last week was well inhabited most of the time. Those who were unfortunate or maybe fortunate to be
there were: W. A. McLean, E. H. Brown, Dwight Mosley, R. M. McGirt, J. C. Junkin, Frank McLeod, K. Cornelius,
E. S. Faison, M. P. James, R. M. Palmer, H. M. DeLorme, S. H. Bradley, B. M. Hamer, C. M.
Clark, G. W. Lawson, S. H. McCallum, W. S. Legare, W. E. Crane, J. J. Stockard, Guy E. Weeks, and
F. C. Thames.

Many Men Respond to First Call for Track Candidates

Squad to be Built Around Nucleus of Eight of Last Year’s Team

Already the “Knights of the Cinder Path” have started their course of training in hopes that they may help uphold
the “Honor of old Davidson” in competition with the track squads of the other colleges this spring. When the first
call for track men was issued a large number responded, varying in size from the small lean dash men to
the big husky weight throwers. With such an abundance of material Coach Grey will be able to turn out a
team which should carry off the laurels wherever it goes.

Coach has several men who have already proven their worth when it comes to leggin’ it around the old oval.
Leonard Dick, last year’s half miler, is captain and manager of the team and is in prime condition. He will
be counted on for at least one first place in every meet. “Bill” Worth, of mile and two mile fame,
has announced his intention to add to the total number of points that will be rolled up in the several
track frays that have already been arranged. Fricker and Sprunt will also be out trying to bring home the bacon.
In the dashes Denniston and Luke Erwin will be fighting it out along with several freshmen of prep-school reputation. In
the field events McLeod and Gentry are the only letter men back, and Coach will have to develop several of
these mountain-like “fresh” to help them.

A meet with N. C. State has already been arranged for April 8th, to take place on the Hill. Meets
with Washington and Lee, Clemson, and South Carolina are pending and negotiations with these three colleges will, in all probability,
be completed within the next few days. The State meet at Chapel Hill will be held on May 7th, and
arrangements are being made for the team to journey up and let the other schools take the second and third
places.

1921 BASEBALL SCHEDULE.

Date | Team
March 24 | Univ. of New York
March 25 | Oak Ridge Institute
March 26 | Oak Ridge
March 28 (Easter Monday) | Univ. of N. C.
April 4 | Wofford
April 9 | N. C. State
April 11 | Elon
April 12 | Univ. of N. C.
April 13 | Wake Forest
April 14 | N. C. State
April 18 | Wake Forest
April 19 | Elon
April 23 | Citadel
April 25 | Furman
April 26 | Clemson
April 27 | Wofford
April 28 (pending) | Univ. of S. C.
May 2 | N. C. State
May 4 (pending) | Trinity

New Plan Adopted at Last Sunday’s Vesper Service

Cassell Elected

Students Take Charge of Meeting—F. V. Long and C. K. Brown Deliver Forceful Speeches

The Y service of last Sunday evening was one of the best of the session, and was conducted entirely by
the students. The two addresses of the evening were made by F. V. Long and C. K. Brown, both members
of the Senior class. A beautiful violin solo by Buchanan added much to the program.

Basing his remarks on II Timothy 2:3, Flynn forcefully showed the power of love and loyalty to Christ. During the
war France and Great Britain combined their forces for the supreme struggle, and many gave their lives on account of
love of country. When we entered Davidson as students we made her standards our own, and we must stand up
for and live up to them. We, however, when we accepted Christ, became members of another army; when we accepted
Christ He accepted us, and we came under His standard. Are we loyal? Peter and Steven and Paul had to
suffer for their loyalty to Christ, and we may meet the same danger, but we must prove true. We cannot
adopt the slogan, “Safety First,” and holdOur ground. Love and loyalty to Christ demand nothing less than that we live
for Him and for others. "The positive side of the true Christian life" was the thought presented by C. K.
Man. In the judgment, man will be held accountable not for a few evil deeds that he may be guilty
of, but for the multitude of right deeds that he failed to do. Thus, there are two sides to life,
the positive and the negative. With Jesus, the negative side was that He did not engage in sinful deeds, the
positive that "He went about doing good." Men might be compared to mirrors, some being effective reflectors of the light,
some defective. Far too many are defective, and there are two great reasons offered: (1) Self-satisfaction, one of the most
powerful enemies of true Christian living; (2) Morality without religion. A mirror in a dark room cannot reflect; it must
be exposed to the light. So the human being, even though he be moral, can never be an effective reflector
unless he comes in contact with the light and love of Jesus Christ. And so it is our duty and
our privilege to try to develop the positive side of the Christian life; to open our hearts and minds and
do our best, so that when we are gone it may be said of us, "He went about doing good."

Team Finds Going Hard in Three-Day Trip Through Old Dominion
University of Virginia, Elks’ Club, and Washington and Lee Too Much for Wildcats—Roberts and J. Schenck Do Best Work for
Davidson

On Wednesday, the Davidsonian basketball five invaded Virginia, determined to add several more scalps to their string after their defeat
of N. C. State and Guilford. But the lads from the Old North State fell before the onslaughts of the
University of Virginia to the tune of 47 to 23. The battle at the Fayweather Gymnasium was much closer and
harder fought than the score would indicate, and it was not until the last whistle that the Wildcats let the
Virginians rest in peace. Not until the Presbyterians had to play on the defensive, because of Captain Hatcher's wonderful shooting,
did the Virginia varsity begin to forge ahead and roll up a large score.

SENIOR ORATORICAL CONTEST TO BE HELD
University of Va. Game.

NEXT TUESDAY NIGHT

On the night of February 15th, in Shearer Chapel, the following Seniors will exercise their oratorical powers on these subjects:
N. P. Baba: The Land That God Forgot.
C. G. Brown: Purpose.
J. M. Dunlap: Sheep.
D. R. Freeman: Ideals.
A. F. Fricken: Industrial Representation.
H. H. Hill: Choosing a Vocation.
J. C. McCaskill: Saving the World.
A. M. Mitchell: The Blending of the Blue and the Gray.
C. N. Morrison: Moving Pictures.
A. P. Ormond: The Soul of the Union.
S. M. Query: The Test of the Labor Unions.

From these men, the four best and two alternates will be chosen, the winners to contest during Commencement week for
the Senior Oratorical medal. These men have chosen to make speeches in preference to writing a thesis.

February Number of Magazine to Appear Soon
Short Stories to Feature Next Issue

The February number of the Magazine is ready and goes to press this week, the management announces. This is to
be a general issue containing a number of good short stories, as well as essays, poems, and exchanges. Among these
will be the following: A Dog Story, by K. G. Tucker; A Story of College Life, by J. C. McAskill;
A Business Story, by James Bernard; the second of "Tales of the New Order," by Jan Alex Czuczox; an article
on North Carolina History, by L. A. Taylor; and another on "Walter Malone, the Southern Poet," by Elmer Hewitt. A
new and original negro story, by Gospero Buckingham, begins with the following words:

"All you niggers clear out," came the shout once more. A drowsy son of Morpheus rolled his eyes at the
proprietor of the restaurant and enquired soothingly: "Is you talkin' to me?"
"Is I? Who you think I'se talkin' to, huh? Do hit looks like I's talking to dat lamp post on
de corner?"
"No, hit don't zackly look dat way. Wouldn't nobody ever 'scuse as black a thing as you is of talking
to a light post. I kinder thot you wuz talkin' to some of dem monkeys out to de ostrich farm,
hit 'ud be mo' lakly."
"Nigger, who is you——?"

But only Gospero Buckingham can finish the fates of this contrary and troublesome visitor. You will find it in this
month's magazine.

(Continued on page 3)

Virginia opened the game by scoring a field goal and a moment later added another. Davidson had not found themselves,
and Virginia was going good but seemed to be missing a number of baskets. At this stage of the game,
the Wildcats hit their stride and soon tied the score by several long throws by Schenck. Roberts soon put the
Presbyterians in the lead by caging two beautiful baskets. For the next ten minutes, scoring was about equal although Virginia
gradually forged closer, until Sexton, Virginia's big center, located the basket and soon put the University lads ahead with some
remarkable shots. Both teams were passing wildly but Virginia seemed to be able to locate the basket much more frequently
than the North Carolinians. The half ended with Virginia 22, Davidson 12.

The Wildcats came back in the second half with the good "ole" Davidson fight and with beautiful teamwork and shooting
nearly overtook the Virginian’s lead. But Captain Hatcher soon began caging shots from every angle, followed by his teammates. The
final whistle blew with Davidson fighting hard, but the Virginians were making every shot count. Schenck and Roberts were the
chief point-getters for the Wildcats, while every man for Davidson fought to the last. The Virginia College Topics said, "The
sportsmanship and fight of the Davidson men is to be commended."

Summary.
Line-up:
Davidson (23) Position Virginia (47)
R. Roberts (11) L. F. Carrington (12)
Romefelt (2) R. F. Sexton (16)
Crawford C. Appleman (2)
L. Schenck (capt) R. G. Hawkins

(Continued on page 2)

WHAT, WHEN AND WHERE

Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Literary Society. Election of officers.
8:00 p.m., Basketball: Davidson vs. University of Florida at Davidson.
Friday—6:45 p.m., Leader's Group Discussion Class.
6:45 p.m., Reporter's Club meeting.
8:00 p.m., Basketball: Davidson vs. Citadel, at Davidson.
Saturday—7:00 p.m., Movies: "Burglar Proof." Admission 5 and 10 cents, one show.
8:00 p.m., Eu Literary Society.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Bible Study Classes.
6:15 p.m., "Y" Service. Special music by "Biddle Quintet." Address by Dr. H. L. McCrory, President of Biddle University.
Tuesday—8:00 p.m., Senior Oratorical Contest.
