THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 29, 1921

Alumni News

REV. EDW. J. HERTWIG PASSES TO HIS REWARD

Rev. Edward J. Hertwig died last week after an illness of several months. A tumor on the brain, which became
aggravated about a week ago, was the direct cause of his death. Rev. Mr. Hertwig was the pastor of the
Presbyterian Church of Statesboro, Ga., and had held a pastorate in Winston-Salem, N.C. He graduated at Davidson and then at
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. His death is much to be regretted since he was but 30 years of
age and had just entered upon his best period of service. He is survived by a wife, three small children,
three brothers, two sisters, father, and mother. Mr. Hertwig was born and reared in Macon, Ga. His wife was a
Macon girl, and his parents and one brother still reside in Macon.

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH
GREAT ALUMNUS AND FORMER PRESIDENT

The subject of this sketch was born in Greensboro, N.C., July 20, 1850. His father was Rev. J. Henry Smith
and his mother was Mrs. Mary Kelly (Watson) Smith. His brothers are Charles Alphonse and Egbert Watson Smith, both graduates
of Davidson and both of national reputation. Dr. Smith received his A.B. degree from Davidson in 1881 and his A.M.
in 1888. He attended the University of Virginia from 1886-87 and 1889-90, receiving his Ph.D. in 1890. He married Miss
Julia Lorraine Dupuy, of Davidson, N.C., August 4, 1890. He was professor of physics at Davidson from 1887-1901 and president
of the college from 1901-1912. In July, 1912, he accepted the presidency of Washington and Lee University and has held
that position ever since. He was president of the N.C. Teachers’ Assembly in 1888 and president of the Association of
Virginia Colleges in 1909. He is a member of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, director of the
American Society for Broader Education, member A.A.A.S., North Carolina Academy of Science. He is also a member of the Phi
Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, and Phi Delta Theta fraternities.

BASEBALL GAME OF 46 YEARS AGO

Mr. R.M. Miller, of Charlotte, has sent the following score of a game played on March 9, 1873, between the
“Senior Nine” and the “College Nine.” He says: “I think it will prove of interest to present-day ‘fans’ and serve
to call to mind some of those who participated in the game, their college days of 46 years ago.”

Senior Nine
Players. Runs. Outs.
Purwell, 1b 4 4
Palmer, ss 9 2
Naird, p 4 3
Walker, lf 2 4
Whitehead, cf 4 3
Horner, 2b 2 2
Burst, 3b 3 3
Sprunt, c 3 3
Dixon, rf 2 3
Totals 27

College Nine
Players. Runs. Outs.
Phillips, c 1 4
Miller, cf 5 1
Battle, lf 1 3
Leckey, p 1 3
Lapstey, 1b 3 3
Foard, 2b 3 2
Glenn, 3b 2 3
Rumple, ss 3 2
Vance, rf 1 3
Totals 20 24

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS HONORED

The State of Virginia has prepared a statue of Gen. George Washington for presentation to England. The unveiling and presentation
will take place in London the latter part of June, and President Henry Louis Smith, ‘81, has been invited to
make the address of the occasion. Dr. Smith will leave America on his happy mission on June 10th. Though Dr.
Smith is a native North Carolinian, Virginia has shown her usual good judgment in selecting the best speaker within her
bounds for this graceful and religious occasion.

ALUMNI NEWS

Rev. W.M. Sikes, ‘01, of Waynesville, N.C., has been seriously sick with pernicious anemia, and will spend several months on
a farm in the hope of restoration.

Rev. D.W. Dodge, ‘10, of Wilton, S.C., has been made Moderator of the Annual Conference of the Congregational Churches of
the Carolinas in session at Asheville, N.C.

Rev. D.C. Young, ‘15, was installed as pastor of the Wilmore Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, N.C., last Sunday.

Rev. E.S. Jones, ‘10, of Chester, S.C., was recently married to Miss Rachel Auld, of Elberton, Ga.

Rev. D. Mall, ‘10, was on the hill for a few minutes last Sunday night.

J. Laban Miles, ‘00, is still living in Dallas, N.C. Mr. Miles’ class claims the honor of laying out the
circular walk on the campus. Some time ago he sent to Davidson the original drawing of the walk as it
appears today.

An approaching marriage that ought to be of interest to the alumni is that of Miss Nona Laura Taylor, of
Shreveport, La., to Geo. M. King, ‘18, of Bristol, Tenn. George was an all-Southern end on the team that beat
Auburn and held Georgia Tech to a close score.

Dr. G.W. Gignilliat, ‘15, is an instructor in English at Annapolis. He averaged out for four years here. He took
his Ph.D. degree at Harvard.

At a recent meeting of the Mecklenburg Presbytery, C.G. Lynch, ‘12, and J.W. Moore, ‘80, were elected Commissioners to the
General Assembly. Other Davidson men who are reported to have attended the recent meeting of Mecklenburg Presbytery are W.E. Furr,
‘01; A.L. Little, ‘20; I.M. Walker, ‘07; L.E. Wells, ‘95; M.F. Sentelle, ‘94; C.H. Rowan, ‘18, and F.A. Barnes, ‘05.

T.G. Tate, ‘10, of Badin, N.C., recently received a call to an important church of Nashville, Tenn.

ALUMNI IN GASTONIA

R.A. Love is a prominent cotton mill manager.

F.L. Smyre, ‘00, is treasurer and manager of the Smyre Manufacturing Company, and other mills in the same city.Adams is
the owner of the Adams Drug Company. Dr. C. E. Mclean is a physician there. Dr. W. B. Hunter, who
was a captain in the army, is the county welfare officer. Hugh A. Query is the editor of the Gastonia
Daily Gazette. His editorials are frequently copied in the Charlotte Observer. R. M. Jackson is with the Citizens National Bank.
R. C. Long, brother of Flynn and “Chal” Long, is the pastor of the Loray Presbyterian Church. S. A. Robinson
is a prominent shoe merchant and an active participant in the church and city organizations. K.P. Hall of Belmont, N.
C., is the county superintendent of education and has an office in Gastonia. His work has attracted attention all over
the state. Ted Cashion, now living in Gastonia, spent the weekend at Davidson. W. N. Julian is connected with the
Cramer and Loray Mills.

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. Lingle to Open Camp for Girls. Mrs. Thomas W. Lingle and Miss Mary Davis will open Ivy Hill, their
camp for girls, at Pisgah Forest this summer on June 30th. The camp will continue through August 27th. The opening
season of this camp has every prospect of being a success under Mrs. Lingle and Miss Davis, who are experienced
campers. This year 60 girls can be accommodated. They will be housed in comfortable wooden buildings and in the large
Davis home. Woodcraft, swimming, tennis, basketball, and other activities will occupy the recreation hours, while courses of study under expert
supervision will also be provided.

The Davidson graded school closes May 5th. There are no graduates in the graduating class this year. Mrs. John Paisley
and son, W. Porter Paisley, have recently been visiting relatives in town. Mrs. Paisley is the mother of Mr. John
Paisley, Jr., who was the first Davidson man killed in the World War. Little entertained the literary address at the
graded school commencement. Dr. T. W. Lingle preached the baccalaureate sermon. Dr. Martin returned Thursday from an extended trip through
New England in the interest of the college. Mrs. Martin returns from Ohio this week. Dr. Arbuckle spent the weekend
at Athens, Ga., with friends. Friends of Mrs. E. G. Firwin are greatly pleased to hear of her steady recovery
from a severe attack of pneumonia. Miss Katherine Potts entertained at a little informal party at her home last Wednesday
evening. Miss Winifred Potts, who is teaching in Kannapolis, spent the weekend in Davidson with her mother, Mrs. W. A.
Potts. Miss Laura Etta Smith, also a teacher in Kannapolis, came home with Miss Potts for the weekend.

DR. J. M. DOUGLAS TALKS ON ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION ELECTIONS

Dr. Douglas Makes Interesting Talk. At the meeting of the student body for the purpose of electing an assistant baseball
manager, Dr. J. M. Douglas made a very interesting talk. He emphasized the need of picking a good man for
the position of assistant manager. He pointed out the fact that if the manager resigned by reason of some other
job, the assistant was automatically elected to take his place. The nominations were made by the executive committee of the
Athletic Association and were made purely from the viewpoint of their business ability. Dr. Douglas expressed gratification over the fact
that the managers and assistants elected for Davidson teams have always been capable in every way. He also expressed the
wish that as many students as possible go down on the “Wildcat Special” and back the team in the Queen
City. M. R. Doubles was elected assistant manager to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of J. P. Price.

Carolina is the wagon, State College is the horse; Wake Forest is the driver, And Davidson the hoss.

Professor—Where was Greek spoken? C. J. Matthews—In Greece, sir. Professor—Correct, and where was Albanian spoken? C. J.—In Albany.

F. W. Smith and F. P. Morton took a trip to Greensboro last week.

For nearly a century, Columbia Theological Seminary has been training men for the Gospel Ministry. It is under the control
of the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, with a membership of 89,000 communicants. Its faculty was never
more complete and efficient than at present. Many improvements to the plant are contemplated for the near future. For information,
address The Executive Office, Thornton Whaling, President, Hugh R. Murchison, Executive Secretary, Columbia, S.C.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records. We send records on approval. Write for special service plan. Parker-Gardner Co.,
Charlotte, N.C.

CAMP SAPPHIRE, BREVARD, N.C.
A SUMMER CAMP FOR BOYS. All kinds of athletic sports, swimming, boating, mountain hikes. Study classes. An excellent table. An
experienced Councillor for every six boys. Give your boy a chance. Make his summer profitable. W. McK. FETZER, Chapel Hill,
N.C. J. M. McCONNELL, Associate Director, Davidson, N.C. WRITE TODAY FOR CATALOG.

A COMPLETE LINE OF SPRING CLOTHES
Society Brand Clothes; Dobbs and Dunlap Hats; French Shriner and Urner Shoes; Manhattan Shirts; Mark Cross Gloves. THE TATE-BROWN CO.,
CHARLOTTE.

PROGRAM
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, April 28th, 29th, and 30th
OVERTURE: Academy Orchestra, Direction Charles H. Shouland
PATHE NEWS
ROLIN COMEDY
CARNEY AND ROSE in “LOST—A HUSBAND”
COUNT PERONNE, Baritone, and TRIN OLIVER, Soprano
FRANCIS RENAULT in “FANTASTIC REVUE”
JUNE MILLS AND CO. in “A TON OF PEP”
JEROME AND NEWELL present “A CHINESE CHORUS”
