Nine Rahs! Charlotte! THE DAVIDSONIAN Wildcats! Tornado! FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON. Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 5, 1922 No. 3

STUDENTS INSPECT MADE-IN-CAROLINA PRODUCTS MONDAY

Made-in-Carolinas Exposition Features Davidson Day

To one who lived in the Carolinas, the “Made-in-Carolinas” Exposition was a thing of which one could be justly proud; to one who was not a resident of one of these States, it was a thing to be admired—another product of Carolinian ability and boosting power. From beginning to end there was substantial evidence to prove that the brains and energy of Charlotte’s best men were behind the whole thing. Upon entering the hall, Davidson, representing as she does, 17 States of the Union, looked upon an array of products that any two States would be proud to claim. Things were going at a mile-a-minute rate, and it was impossible to get a good look at everything. Down four long aisles, with booths on both sides, there was represented, from Carolina makers, almost everything that we find on the market today. All kinds of Carolina raw materials were represented as finished products, made by Carolina labor, in Carolina mills.

The exhibits were housed in a fine two-story brick building. The first floor was completely taken up with six long rows of booths. The second floor had a few exhibits, but was mainly taken up with the large auditorium. At the auditorium, voicing the same spirit that was shown and expressed at the Chamber of Commerce luncheon, the speakers from Charlotte impressed upon Davidson their interest in and desire to help the best old college in the East or West. Doctor Frazer, of our “sister college,” as he expressed it, of Queens, began the program in his usual manner, leaving everyone in high spirits. Those following him expressed again and again a note of welcome to and interest in Davidson. The talks were pleas for Davidson to regard Charlotte as its guardian city; they seemed to be calls from a newly-awakened Charlotte, a Charlotte that we had not known before. She seemed to say that she had just roused herself to the opportunity for making everlasting friendship with those here at Davidson, and was begging Davidson to give her the chance to make it good. The representatives of Davidson, on the other hand, expressed what the whole student body felt—that Charlotte that spoke through those men was a new city, that had realized what Davidson meant to her when she saw the Presbyterians there “en masse,” as her guests. The orchestra and singers were beyond reproach. It swayed the audience as it willed. From the softest, most restful pieces to the stirring strains of Dixie, they were masters of whatever they chose to present. After the program in the auditorium was closed, the visitors again swarmed through the aisles on the lower floor, to make a final (Continued on Page 5)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Saturday means Tech and “fight”—let’s fight 540 strong!

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA BILLS FIVE REPRESENTATIVE MEN

On Monday, September 25, the local chapter of the Omicron Delta Kappa honor society held its opening meeting for the year. This is a national organization and the key of this fraternity, representing membership, is one greatly prized and coveted. The election of new men was taken up at this meeting and those receiving bids are recognized as men of leadership on the campus. The following have received bids: G. B. Sorrells, W. S. Shephard, H. H. Smith, W. J. Cooper, D. H. Ogden, R. L. McLeod, and W. S. Buchanan. The present members are: Dr. W. R. Grey, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. C. M. Richards, Mr. F. L. Jackson, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. W. J. Martin, F. W. Hengeveld, H. M. Grey, L. W. Dick, R. F. Davidson, S. M. Davis, and C. R. Crawford. —D.

FRESH DEFEATED BY SOPHS IN ANNUAL BASEBALL GAME

Under Classmen Outplayed by Older Brothers

In the Fresh-Soph baseball game last Saturday, the superior headwork and better teamwork of the Sophomore outfit gave them an 11-7 victory over the Freshmen. The game was full of thrills with many spectacular plays on both sides. The Soph supporters cheered lustily as Anthony took the mound. The first two men were easy outs, but Kugler got a walk and managed to score on a passed ball. The first three Sophs up failed to register and not a man reached first. In the next frame, however, the Sophs came back and annexed two tallies, giving them a one-run lead, while the Fresh were held scoreless. In the third inning, Laird replaced Potts as pitcher. Robbins, the first man up, let him in on the fact that he is playing a real team, garnering a long three-bagger. Robbins scored on a passed ball through Carson. In the next two innings, the score seesawed somewhat, but the end of the fifth saw the Sophs with a three-run lead, the score being 7-4. In the sixth inning, the Fresh came back with a rally. Carson doubled, Laird walked, and both scored on Buck’s single. Long, the next man up, flew out to right field, but Kugler sent a high bounder over second, bringing in Buck and tying the score. In the latter half of this frame, Daughton, who replaced Laird, held the Sophs scoreless, fanning three men. The lucky seventh proved to be a jinx for both teams as neither scored. The eighth, however, changed things considerably with three tallies for the Sophs and zero on the Fresh side of the score. For the Fresh, all three pitchers hurled excellent ball, while Kugler was easily the star of the infield. The hitting of Vance and Buck added much to the effectiveness of the Fresh team. Anthony pitched good ball for the Sophs, while the fielding of Simpson at short and Brice at center was good. Robbins and Morrison did good stick work, the former with a three-bagger and two singles out of five times up.

Umpires—Boushee and Richards. —D.

Don’t ask a wise man for free advice; if he’s wise you won't get it. —D.

A Tip

Advice to bachelors—Flirt with the girls who use the lipstick, but marry one who can push a broomstick. —The United Shield.

CITY OF CHARLOTTE THROWN OPEN TO DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Student Body Claimed Queen City En Masse

On last Monday, October 2, the student body and faculty of Davidson College were tendered a day's reception by the city of Charlotte. Those in charge of the affair exerted themselves in every way to make the day a success and there are 500 Davidson students to witness to the fact that their effort was by no means a failure. The well-arranged and interesting program was carried out from beginning to end. The students left Davidson immediately after chapel Monday morning in the automobiles that Charlotte had secured to carry them to the Queen City. At about 10 o'clock they arrived in the heart of the city and were then taken on a tour of sight-seeing to the principal points of interest. All assembled at the post office at 11:30. Here there were several photographers, who took pictures of the entire assembly. They first photographed the faculty and then the student body. After this ordeal, a parade formed and the students marched through the principal streets of the city four abreast and forming a line three blocks long. After marching for a time, all went to the Chamber of Commerce building where a most delicious luncheon was served.

BANQUET FEATURES DAVIDSON VISIT IN THE QUEEN CITY

Chamber of Commerce Spreads Royal Feast for College Visitors

The spirited parade through the city terminated at the new home of the Chamber of Commerce on West Fourth Street where a most enjoyable luncheon was served by several young ladies to the 570 visitors and citizens. At the luncheon, an interesting speaking program was carried out, the keynote of nearly every speech being “closer relationship” between Davidson and the Queen City.Mr. V. J. Guthery, president of the Chamber of Commerce, presided over the luncheon and Rev. A. S. John spoke the invocation. Mayor "Jim" Walker was the first speaker and he proved very interesting to the boys, turning over the city to them for the day and declaring that the policemen were asleep and that the recorder had "gone fishing." He recounted some amusing tricks played on the faculty at Davidson when he was attending school there and announced his intention of "getting even" with the faculty on Davidson Day. President Guthery followed Mayor Walker with a few words of welcome to the boys and characterized the Davidson students as Christian gentlemen of a high order. Vice President Bland, of the Chamber of Commerce, spoke of his impression of the student body, declaring it to be an optimistic one. Mr. Bland looked towards the early completion of the Charlotte-Davidson road, now under construction. Mr. H. P. Harding made an interesting talk. He was greeted with warm applause when he declared: "I wish I were president of Queens College for 15 minutes; I would declare a holiday so that you might spend the afternoon on the campus." Mr. Harding gave interesting facts on the growth of North Carolina in the past 20 years and his speech was one of very cordial welcome to the visitors. Then Mr. W. A. Reynolds, of the Southern Cotton Oil Company, emphasized the "Closer Relationship" idea and advised the boys to wear their college colors when in town so that the people of Charlotte may know they are Davidson boys. Dr. Martin, president of the college, highly praised Charlotte, declaring that when requested by parents over the country to inform them of Davidson’s surroundings he would invariably declare Charlotte the best city in the State and in the South. He spoke of the Davidson students as the finest of the Made-in-Carolinas products. Dr. Martin went into detail about the business value of the location of Davidson so near Charlotte. Next, D. H. Ogden, Jr., the president of the Davidson student body, made a lively talk on the business relations of Davidson and Charlotte and voiced the appreciation of the student body for the royal feast spread by the Chamber of Commerce for its college visitors and for their hospitable spirit. He called attention to the recent gift of a bell by Mr. Brevard McDowell, a Charlotte man. Following this, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, made a talk, showing the business side of the "Closer Relationship" idea. The most energetic of all the speakers was Mr. C. O. ("Booster") Kuester who has been the main backer of the Davidson Day and who worked out the plans for the gala occasion. He had as his assistant, Mr. J. A. Lockhart, who made a short, but very "peppy" talk. Promptly at 2 o’clock the students assembled outside for the march to the Exposition hall to see the wonders of the Carolina mills.

SIGMA UPSILON TO TAKE IN FIVE NEW MEN

The chapter of the Sigma Upsilon fraternity held its first meeting of the year Tuesday, September 26. Several plans were made for the year and many things are hoped to be accomplished. Practically the entire meeting was devoted to the discussion and election of new men. Bids have been extended to the following men, in recognition of their literary ability: E. T. Woolfolk, W. S. Buchanan, H. M. Morris, H. K. Russell, and D. H. Ogden. The present members include: Dr. M. F. Sentelle, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Dr. Frazer Hood, Prof. E. J. Erwin, R. Davidson, Ed. Fewell, T. L. Smith, and W. J. Cooper.

DAVIDSON SUFFERING FROM SEVEREST DROUGHT IN YEARS

Lack of Water a Serious Problem to College

There is one word that expresses the condition of the Davidson campus and that word is DUST. The mere fact that there has been no rain since the Glorious Fourth is bad enough in itself but to the negative lack of water has been added the very positive presence of beaucoup dust. Dust inches deep in the paths, dust rising in clouds from the roads and so thick on the football field that the players can scarcely see each other and the spectators have no chance at all. With just a little encouragement the wells would go dry altogether but nobody seemed to think well of the scheme they have not carried it out yet, although there is no telling what they would do if sufficiently provoked. Aside from minor troubles like having the water fail when you are half shaved, or finding that there is not enough for a shower when you have just been out trying to improve your muscular force, the lack of water has caused a corresponding lack in the education of the Freshmen. It is stated on good authority that there are no less than 179 who have not learned how to throw water in a paper bag simply because there has not been enough water to be used for that purpose.

BLUE STOCKINGS OUTPOINT WILDCATS BY LONE MARKER

Clinton Scene Proved Fatal for Coach Grey’s Men

In the closest game of the year the Wildcats were nosed out by P. C. Friday afternoon by a one point margin, the Bluestockings winning, 8-7. The game was as hard fought and as evenly matched as the score indicates. Neither team was able to gain consistently through the opponent's line. The South Carolinians gained most of their ground by sweeping around the Wildcat flanks for long gains. A safety and touchdown accounted for the Bluestocking’s eight markers, while Spratt Moore gained six points for the Wildcats by bucking the P. C. line and Gig Shepherd's toe added another point. Although the Wildcats kept the ball in P. C. territory during the greater part of the game the final punch was lacking and the Red and Black team was unable to push over a second counter. Twice when the Wildcats were knocking at their opponent's goal the Palmetto Presbyterians intercepted forward passes, one of these paving the way for their touchdown. Hendrix received the kick-off and the Wildcats soon carried the ball to P. C. territory. Shepherd outpunted Hindman during this quarter pushing the Bluestockings back to their 10-yard line. Here the thin Red line proved its worth by breaking through and blocking Hindman’s punt, recovering on the six-yard line. Just as the whistle blew for the quarter Spratt carried the ball over. Gig added one point by kicking goal. Score—Davidson, 7; P. C., 0. During the second quarter the ball see-sawed in midfield. P. C. was forced to punt and Hindman booted the ball behind Davidson's goal line. Davidson's ball on her own 20-yard line. Davidson was penalized 15 yards for holding. The foul was committed seven yards back of the line so the penalty put it two yards behind the lines. The ball was put in play on the 18-inch line between the goal posts. The pigskin was purposely grounded behind the line for a safety. Score—Davidson, 7; P. C., 2. The ball was put in play on the 30-yard line. Shepherd punted well into P. C. territory. The Bluestockings then started a series of sweeping end runs which carried the ball to Davidson’s 10-yard line. There decisively (Continued on Page 6)

What’s Doing

THURSDAY, OCT. 5.
Davidsonian arrives, 3 p. m.
Eu Society, 7:30 p. m.
Phi Society, 7:30 p. m.
Pandemic Society, 8:30 p. m.

FRIDAY, OCT. 6
Chautauqua, afternoon performance, 3:30 p. m.
Chautauqua, night performance, 8.

SATURDAY, OCT. 7.
Wildcats vs. Ga. Tech at Atlanta.
Chautauqua, afternoon and night.

SUNDAY, OCT. 8.
Volunteer band, 10 a. m.
C. E. Training class, 1:15 p. m.
Ministerial band, 1:45 p. m.
Sunday school, 3:30 p. m.
“Y” service, 6:15 p. m.

MONDAY, OCT. 9.
Chautauqua, last day.

TUESDAY, OCT. 3.
Bible class, leader’s class, 9 p. m.
Metrophilian Society, 7:15 p. m.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4.
Bible classes, 9 p. m.

WHERE’S THAT WILDCAT SPIRIT, FELLOWS?