Speak, Juniors, Speak! THE DAVIDSONIAN Baseball Prospects Bright FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH
10, 1922.

Local Man Elected Leader of State Volunteer Union
Guy E. Weeks, of Junior Class, President for Coming Year.

The eleventh annual conference of the North Carolina Student Volunteer Union was held in Greensboro, N. C., at N. C.
C. W., last Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, March 3-6. Of the 200 delegates, who represented every college in the state,
32 were from Davidson. The whole conference was a huge success in every way. Much of this success was due
to the whole conference being pervaded with a spirit of earnest prayer. Several excellent speakers were on the program.

Registration.
Upon arriving, the delegates were assigned to various homes throughout the city, where they were royally entertained while not at
the college. Dinner and supper were served in one of the two large N. C. C. W. dining rooms. For
several reasons, this dining room proved to be of especial interest to Davidson delegates.

Friday Night.
Cordial addresses of welcome were given by Dr. W. C. Jackson, of the N. C. C. W. faculty; Dr. S.
B. Turrentine, president of G. C. W.; and by Dr. H. C. Sprinkle, representing the churches of the city. The
chief speaker of the evening was Dr. H. E. Spence, professor of Religious Education of Trinity College. Using as his
subject “The Day of the Lord,” he made a strong appeal for life service.

Saturday Morning.
An open meeting was held in which the aims and objectives of the volunteer movement were discussed. With Miss Beatrice
Segsworth leading the discussion, the purpose of the movement was summarized as follows: (1) To awaken and maintain among all
Christian students of the United States and Canada intelligent and active interest in foreign missions; (2) To enroll a sufficient
number of properly qualified student volunteers to meet the successive demands of the various missionary boards; (3) To help all
intending missionaries to prepare for their life work; (4) To enlist the aid of all future full-time Christian workers by
knowing, praying, paying, and going.

Mr. Bland Roberts, traveling secretary of the National Volunteer Union, outlined several books, which are of especial interest to Volunteers,
after which Dr. D. P. Anderson, of Korea, in an interesting way told of his work there. He gave a
vivid description of the religious revival in Korea and made a strong appeal for the work there.

Saturday Afternoon.
Dr. P. C. DuBose, of China, vividly contrasted present conditions in China (Continued on page 6)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS
Speeches, Juniors! Learn the Warm Up, Pitchers!

Queens Girls Entertain With “The Twig of Thorn”
Class in Expression Win the Hearts of Good House.

One of the most successful and delightful entertainments given here this year was a play given by 18 young ladies
from Queens College, on the evening of Friday, March 4th. This drama, entitled “The Twig of Thorn,” is an Irish
play, of which it has been said, “No one can touch, ever so lightly, the old traditions of Ireland, without
falling under the spell of their magic.” The cast were members of the class of expression at Queens. This Irish
fairy play was rendered much to the satisfaction of everyone present, portraying clearly some of the customs, superstitions, dress, and
vogue of a certain class of Irish people.

The story of the play is one of old Irish romance, in which Oonah, the heroine, leaves Dublin to live
with her grandmother, among peasant folk. There she becomes implicated with a “twig of thorn” and an attractive fairy, but
through the services of Aileel, the poet, and Aengus Arann, her lover, all turns out well. The cast of players
was as follows:
Oonah—Miss Meme Hampton.
The Grandmother—Miss Kathleen Long.
The Lover—Miss Elizabeth Finley.
The Poet—Miss Katherine Shuford.
The Priest—Miss Ruby Cain.
A Fairy Child—Miss Virginia Abbott.
Neighbors—Misses Howard, Crater, Norman, Morrison, Henderson, Powell, and Silverstein.

Misses King, Stone, and Brasington were the teachers in the party. The guitar playing of Miss Lois Rogers, behind the
scenes, was a feature of the event, as was the accompanying of Miss Brasington. One very noticeable feature of the
play was the ease and clear enunciation of the players, not a word being lost to the hearers. The giving
of the play here was made (Continued on page 5)

BAILEY AND HOUGHTON ARE TO DEBATE WAKE FOREST
From those who participated in the preliminary debate held in the Phi hall on the night of March 6th, E.
C. Houghton and J. C. Bailey, with W. A. Gamble as alternate and manager, were selected to uphold the honor
of Davidson College in the debate with Wake Forest in April. The subject of this debate is a question that
should interest every American citizen: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should own and operate the coal mines of the United
States.” The Davidson-Wake Forest debate is to be held at Queens College, in Charlotte, on April 7th. Davidson will uphold
the negative.

Those who upheld the affirmative in the preliminary debate were J. C. Bailey, S. A. Taylor, and E. E. Houghton.
The negative was upheld by W. A. Gamble, J. P. Price, W. M. Cox, D. B. Walthall, and Rolston Bitzer.
All of these men had strong arguments and their debates were well worked up. Doctor Richards, Professor Erwin, and P.
D. Miller acted as judges in this debate. So well prepared were the debaters that several ballots were necessarily taken
before the judges could reach a decision.

What Will Your Future Be? Hamilton Holt to SpeakHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Here on World Outlook Editor of The Independent to Visit Davidson, March 17th. On March 17th students and friends of
Davidson are to be given a real treat in the form of a lecture on “America and the World Outlook.”
This lecture is to be delivered by Hamilton Holt, present consulting editor of The Independent and Weekly Review, and a
man of international reputation. In 1909 Mr. Holt was made commander of the Order of the Sacred Treasure by the
Emperor of Japan. In 1918 he (Continued on page 6)

The! | What’s What About Our Basketball Contingent Inside Information on Men Who Made 1922 Record.

Pat Crawford (Capt). Captain Pat Crawford, right guard, leader of the best quint that ever sported the Red and Black
on the hardwood playground, is the state’s premier sugar-coated star guard. Playing every moment of every game, this bundle of
concentrated T. N. T. proved to be the most valuable player in the state. In spite of the fact that
he played guard, he tossed the leather agate for 46 ringers while the opposing forwards could gather but 33. Pat
is a hard worker, and although his play is at times a bit rough, it is clean.

George Mauze, Center Coach Hengeveld has developed “Ole Warhoss,” a product of “the wilds of West Virginia,” into a player
whose great work has attracted the calcium rays. He was the mainspring of the Poison Squad’s scoring outfit, causing the
ball to enter the realms of the meshes for 130 points. However, Warhoss was most valuable to the team as
a floor man. He was a veritable whirlwind on the hardwood and the plays that didn’t sport his initials were
few and far between.

A. C. Ormond, Left Forward Ormond also did his share in carrying the hod for the Wildcats this season, totaling
86 counters and playing a snappy floor game. This is his first year on the team and although rather shy
of poundage, he is one of the most difficult men in the state to guard. No matter where the ball
might be, he was right after it, and once in his possession it usually took a trip to the net.

J. P. Price, Left Guard Junebug was the big reason why the opposing teams made so few points this season.
He played a great game on sentry duty and many times repelled strong attacks on the Davidson goal. This India
rubber guard not only played a high-class defensive game but at times (Continued on page 4)

Randolph-Macon Beaten By Davidson Debaters Miller and McKeithen Secure Four to One Decision in Raleigh.

A team composed of P. D. Miller and Harold McKeithan, with D. H. Ogden as alternate, won for Davidson the
debate with Randolph-Macon, at Raleigh, by a decision of four to one. The debate took place in the auditorium of
Peace Institute, on the evening of March 3rd. The subject was: “Resolved, That Congress should provide for a Department of
Education under a secretary who shall have those duties and powers set forth in the Smith-Towner Bill.” Davidson defended the
negative.

For Davidson, P. D. Miller was the first speaker. He showed the evils of state control of education and the
need for improvement in educational organization. He also pointed out that our whole educational system is inefficient, ranking us below
many other nations in regard to illiteracy. Finally, he showed that we must search for a remedy for this bad
condition of educational affairs. He combined in an impressive manner that fiery oratory and logical arrangement of ideas which have
made him famous in the realm of debating.

J. H. McKeithan, dealing specifically with the Smith-Towner Bill, showed how it would remedy the present needs of education today.
He also pointed out in detail the evils which the bill would remedy. As in last year’s debate with Randolph-Macon,
Harold was especially strong on the rebuttal, utterly destroying his opponent's main points.

The Randolph-Macon team was composed of Messrs. Michael and Blackwell. The alternate was a freshman, George Hamilton, who has been
a well-known high school debater. Michael, the first speaker, pointed out in a logical manner that the bill is not
workable and would lead to political control of educational affairs. His colleague, an experienced speaker of oratorical ability, based his
main argument on the fact that the expense of a hundred million dollars entailed in the bill would necessarily raise
our tariff. This was the point upon which Davidson based her rebuttal, and utterly defeated this point.

The judges of the debate were Messrs. Walter Clark, of the State Bench, Judge Biggs, Judge Connor, of the Federal
District Court, Captain Ashe, (Continued on page 6)

* * * K WHAT'S DOING. * * *

Thursday, Mar. 9—Life Work Service, 7:00 p.m. Eu and Phi Societies, after service. Metrophilian and Pandeinic Societies 9:00 p.m.

Friday, Mar. 10—Life Work Service, 7:00 p.m.

Saturday, Mar. 11—Movies: “Saturday Night,” 7:15 p.m.

Sunday, Mar. 12—Volunteer Band, 10:00 a.m. C. E. Training Class, 1:00 p.m. Ministerial Band, 1:45 p.m. “Y” Service, final of
Life Work Campaign, 6:15 p.m.

Monday, Mar. 13—Mission Study Class Leaders, 9:30 p.m.

Tuesday, Mar. 14—Ibsen's play, Ghosts, featuring the Scandinavian players, Madame Hammer and Herr Fjelde, 8:00 p.m.

Wednesday, Mar. 15—Mission Study Classes; “Medical Missions,” 9:30 p.m.

WHERE WILL YOU BE IN TEN YEARS?
