¥ TWO WEEKS CAROLINA THE DAVI FOR A BETTER DAV sS> SS =: 'SONIAN WALLOP WOFFORD IDSON Vol. X DAVIDSON
COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. NOVEMBER 9, 1922

DEVEREUX ARTISTS SEEN IN ROMEO AND JULIET
Shakespearean Players Are Presented by Local Dramatic Club to Small Audience

On last Saturday night in Shearer Hall, Clifford Devereux and his company presented Romeo and Juliet. It was not played
before a full house; in fact, it was one of the smallest crowds that has been out to see a
play in several years. It is generally supposed that in the centers of higher learning, plays of the deeper sort
draw a large crowd, but out of a student body of 500 and the faculty and the people of the
town, there were scarcely 300 present. The indications are that the American people of culture are losing their taste for
Shakespeare as well as some of the other greatest writers of our language.

Those who did not attend the play missed one of the finest exhibitions of first-class acting that has ever been
staged at Davidson. Mr. Devereux is an actor of exceptional ability. He has that faculty of making the audience feel
every emotion of the character he is bearing, which is an inherent quality of every good actor. As Romeo, he
depicted the agonies of a star-crossed lover in a most vivid manner. Mr. Devereux has an exceptionally fine voice. Miss
Zinata Graf, Mr. Devereux’s leading lady, is a woman of more than ordinary beauty and personality, the possessor of a
most musical voice. As Juliet, she was beautiful and winsome. She brought out all the pathos of the part in
an unusually beautiful and realistic fashion. It was not hard to believe they were star-crossed lovers of two houses between
which existed animosity of long standing.

(Continued on Page Eight)

CHARLOTTE CAMPAIGN OPENS IN INTEREST OF CHAMBERS
Queen City Will Score Touchdown

Charlotte has witnessed many a Wildcat struggle. Eagerly has she followed with eyes of interest the fleet form of a
dashing feline, and how often has she cheered for a winning score! She glories in the spirit that puts over
a winning touchdown. On a miniature battleground erected at Liggett’s Drug store, in the heart of the Queen City, an
eager Wildcat has started a downfield march toward a $100,000 quota goal. In the hands of Davidson alumni and supporters
in the Queen City rests the fate of the cleated wearer of the Red and Black. Pledges and subscriptions amounting
to $10,000 are necessary for each 10-yard advance. The Charlotte fans are supporting the Wildcat and at the time this
article is being written there is every indication that the ball will be carried safely across the last white line
that means victory.

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, director of the campaign for the raising of funds to rebuild Chambers, has chosen an able corps
of pep leaders and workers to carry the Charlotte campaign over in fine style. The churches of the city will
be asked to furnish one-half of the $100,000 quota and the business interests will be solicited for the remaining half.
November 18th is the date set for the final reckoning and an effort will be made to secure the amount
in full by that date.

SERVICE
Mail service deluxe, ala Uncle Baxter, is the latest addendum to the list of public service corporations on the hill.
Uncle Baxter, under a special act of Congress, has installed in the heart of the campus a mail box for
the use of the students, the mail being collected before the departure of every mail train. Until Gamaliel Harding discovers
the fact that Baxter is a loyal democrat, and replaces him with a follower of the Bull Moose, the denizens
of Dormitory Row will be relieved of many weary walks to Mr. Cranford’s shop.

FRESHMAN TEAM IS VICTOR OVER OAK RIDGE INSTITUTE
Black Scores Two Touchdowns for Local Boys

Last Saturday on Sprunt Field the Davidson Freshmen triumphed over the Oak Ridge Institute by the score of 13-0. Both
teams played a good game, and the score does not show the real fight the Freshmen put up before they
subdued their lighter opponents.

Oak Ridge opened up the first quarter with a steady drive toward the Davidson goal line. A pass to Sherrill
made 20 yards, and although Oak Ridge lost the ball on a fumble, they soon recovered and advanced the ball
to Davidson’s seven-yard line. A touchdown seemed certain, but on the first play Anderson broke through and tackled Cole so
hard that he dropped the ball. MacDonald picked up the ball and ran 85 yards, being forced out of bounds
on the eight-yard line. Two drives by Black carried the ball over for Davidson’s first touchdown. MacDonald kicked goal.

The opening of the next quarter saw (Continued on Page Five)

STANDARD CLASS RING SOUGHT BY JUNIORS AND SOPHOMORES
Joint Class Committees Meet to Discuss Plan

During the past week the joint committee of the Junior and Sophomore classes, appointed for the purpose of selecting a
standard class ring, met with the salesman of the Herff-Jones Company, of Indianapolis, and selected two designs for the proposed
ring. One of these designs is similar to the D-shaped ring adopted last year by the class of ’22, except
that it has two wildcats placed in relief on each side of the “D.” The other design is a new
one which has an oval-shaped top with the Davidson College seal in the center encircled by the name, “Davidson College.”
This ring also has the wildcats on it. It is hoped that, when the salesman returns with the sample casts
of the two rings, the two classes will select one of the designs to be the standard class ring. If
this purpose is accomplished, then each class that graduates from Davidson will have a ring of the same design with
the exception of the class numerals, which will of course, be changed for each class.

The Juniors on the committee are J. D. Parish, G. R. Dupuy, W. M. Heston, W. Z. Bradford and Paul
Price, and the Sophomores are R. E. Boggs, H. B. Price, T. F. Staley and A. F. Martin.

SEVERAL REVIVAL MEETINGS ARE LED BY DOCTOR LINGLE
Brother of Local Professor Speaks Under Auspices of Y. M.C. A. on Religious Topics

The regular fall evangelistic services were held under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. during Wednesday, Thursday, Friday,
Saturday and Sunday of last week, led by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of the Union Theological Seminary faculty. Besides speaking
on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Sunday nights and at the chapel service on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Doctor Lingle held
a large number of personal interviews, addressed several groups and preached in the Davidson Presbyterian Church both Sunday morning and
Sunday evening.

Doctor Lingle used no sentimental preaching, but simply told the plain message of Jesus Christ. His mellow voice, blended with
his deep personality, together with the reality and directness of his messages, produced a lasting effect on his audience. He
secured results which can be secured only by those who have long walked close to God. Only the future can
tell just how much good has been done by his efforts spent here. Many feel themselves to be closer to
Christ and have a more definite purpose in life. The singing contributed its part toward the success of the meetings.
Mr. T. C. Carr, ’98, ofMooresville, directed the singing until Saturday, when he went to the First Presbyterian Church of
Mooresville to conduct the singing at the District C. I. Convention which was then in session. Buck Currie led the
singing on Sunday. Mr. Carr has had a wide experience as song leader. He is at present employed by the
Synod of North Carolina. The attendance was unusually large, about 90 percent of the student body attending the services. The
Senior class acted as the invitation committee on the first night, the Juniors the second, then the Sophomores, and the
Freshmen on the two following nights. Most of Doctor Lingle’s spare time was occupied by holding a large number of
20-minute personal interviews. These discussions related primarily to the problem of choosing the correct vocation in life. Not a single
student among the many who conferred with him entertained the slightest doubt that the life in which the greatest amount
of true service is rendered is the ideal life to live. The fraternity groups were addressed separately on Christian subjects,
dealing particularly with their work. Doctor Lingle’s principal talks are briefly given below:

CHAPEL SERVICES

On Thursday morning he spoke of the importance of attaining a strong Christian personality. The greatest personality of all, that
of Christ, can be approached only by constantly striving to develop the all-around man physically, intellectually, socially, and spiritually. The
text Friday morning was, “Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in Heaven.” God’s will
is being done by Davidson students only when they practice self-denial, the law of love, the golden rule, and the
law of service. There is no place for selfishness in a Christian’s life, but there is a large place for
service. On Saturday morning Christ’s teachings concerning the use of money were discussed. Wealth is a peril to one’s soul
when it is not used for God’s (Continued on Page Five)

No. 8

A PRECEDENT

East Dormitory boys have put one over, and the dormitory reception room is now a “popular spot” with them. A
victrola has been purchased and installed. Reading matter rivaling that of the library reading room has been accumulated and the
latest periodicals are on hand. Shooting his majestic male of the bovine kind is allowed and is a popular sport.
J. I. Weldon originated the idea, organized and headed the committee to raise funds, and put the proposition over. The
boys responded nicely and are now proud of their possessions.

DR. WALTER LINGLE DELIVERS SERMON AT SUNDAY SERVICE

Famous Alumni Fills Doctor Richard's Pulpit

The November Sunday morning sermon, Sth, was delivered by Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. Doctor
Lingle conducted a series of revival meetings in Davidson during the past week and practically every man in the student
body has been benefited by his messages. Doctor Lingle read as the Scripture lesson a portion of the third chapter
of Second Peter. He took as his text a portion of Second Peter, 3:18, and talked on the subject, “How
we may grow in Christian life.” God has a purpose for every life and this purpose is to make us
like His Son Jesus Christ. How can we (Continued on page eight)

LITERARY SOCIETY SPONSORS DESIGNATED FOR YEAR BOOK

Presidents Choose Young Ladies for Annual

It has recently been decided that the literary societies will be represented in this year’s issue of the Quips and
Cranks by sponsors, chosen respectively by the four presidents of the societies. This procedure on the part of the societies,
however novel and unexpected, need not be laid altogether to their charge, for it has been stated on good authority
that they were to quite an extent hoodwinked into the agreement by certain members of the annual staff. In fact,
one of the great four begged rather apologetically that it be made unmistakably clear to the public that it was
the annual staff who originated the idea, and that the societies were more or less the victims of circumstances. In
deference to the gentleman’s wish, this phase of the matter has been made plain, but there was in reality no
necessity for this apparent modesty on the part of those who had every reason to be delighted to proclaim to
the public that their societies were of sufficient importance to merit this additional recognition in the Davidson College Annual. The
sponsors for the literary societies are announced as follows: Eumanean—Miss Carolina Knowlton. Metrophilian—Miss Morrison. Pandeinic—Miss Elizabeth Thames. Philanthropic—Miss Margie Russell.

TECHNICIANS HOLD RED WARRIORS SCORELESS

Wildcats Carry the Ball for Ten First Downs—Fumbles and Erratic Pass Are Costly

To introduce Robert Long—that is, if Bobby needs any introduction, especially in Davidson. Bobby is that same young lad who,
some 12 months ago, cavorted on Sprunt and other fields, sporting the Red and Black. Saturday, however, he wore the
Red and White of N.C. State and he, with the help of kindly breaks, spiked the Wildcats’ artillery. Result—State, 15;
Davidson, 0. But cold figures do not tell the story of the courageous battle staged by the Wildcats—a battle against
overwhelming odds. After seeing two sure touchdowns for them turned into markers for State by the mere flicker of Lady
Luck’s hand, they turned loose a whirlwind attack in the last quarter that threatened to reverse the score. For the
first time this season Spratt Moore displayed his real ability in advancing the pigskin. Late in the game Spratt cut
loose in earnest and smashed and circled his way down the field. He wiggled and squirmed, side-stepped and pivoted his
way in his old inimitable style. Now that the Wildcat captain has struck his real stride, great things are expected
of him in the Carolina game. The Wildcats outclassed the Wolfpack (Continued on page one)

DEBATE WITH WASHINGTON AND LEE OPENS CALENDAR

Many Candidates Report for Service

On the evening of December 15, at Lexington, Va., Davidson will debate Washington and Lee University for the first time
since 1919. The question is, Resolved, That the United States government should cancel the debts to her European allies made
after April 6, 1917. Davidson will uphold the affirmative side of the debate. At a meeting, held after chapel last
Monday, it was decided to hold the society preliminaries on November 24th; the semi-finals, at which the team will be
picked, to take place on the night of November 27th. There were more than 20 men present at this meeting
and the prospects for turning out a winning team from such a large group are exceedingly bright. Professor Wagner spoke
a few words to the gathering and offered to help anyone in any possible way. This is the first time
since 1919 that the debating teams of the two schools have had a chance to meet. The debate, taking place
in the spring of that year, resulted in a favorable decision for the Red and Black. With Gamble, Ogden and
other debaters of experience, making ready for the fray, it is exceedingly probable that the chosen Wildcat pair will again
bring back the laurels to Davidson. The debating council was unable to secure the triangular debate with Wake Forest and
Trinity this year but has tentative plans for debating each of them. The council hopes that this will lead to
a triangular debate with these two colleges next year. The proposed debates with Wake Forest and Trinity will take place
some time during the spring term.
