THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

ATHLETIC NEWS

ALUMNI ASSIST COACH GREY ON SPRUNT FIELD

The alumni have shown that they are back of the Fighting Wildcat team by their actual presence and work on
the field before the game. Old stars who know the game from start to finish have contributed what they know
of Carolina’s style of play and have put pep, confidence, and fight in the team by their presence. Perhaps the
most natural-looking figure on the field during the past week was that of Jack Black, one of the greatest backs
Davidson has ever produced. His work was always spectacular. He was known everywhere as one of the greatest line plungers
of his day. Jack finished here in ’20 and has been located in Greenville since then. Greenville learned to respect
Jack in 1919 and seems to have kept all of this respect ever since.

Another figure of prominence was “Nuts” Graham, ’08. His fame lay in his speed and generalship, and his name has
come down as one of the fastest quarterbacks Davidson has ever had. Mr. Graham is valuable not only to give
the team the benefit of his football experience, but his ability to put pep and fight in a team is
unlimited.

Doctor Edgerton, of Columbia, was a very prominent figure on the field in Charlotte. It was impossible for him to
get here before the game but the fight he instilled in the team in Charlotte was evident. Red is another
character in Davidson football history. He was an all-state man when he was here, in the class of ’12, and
has been an enthusiastic Davidson fan ever since.

The Davidson student body and alumni want these men to know how much they appreciate their services.

D.

TED JONES SINGS SONG OF BATTLE IN CHAPEL

Once upon a time, in the days before the wicked Tar Heels had defeated the mighty Wildcats, there appeared one
day before the morning gathering of the Wildcats a man by the name of Ted Jones. This man was famous
for his great singing and had often come before the Wildcats to lead them in their religious songs. That morning,
however, instead of asking them to sing a religious song, he asked them to sing a song entitled “O Davidson.”
Now this song was never intended for use in a religious service, but was intended rather as a battle song
for the Wildcats as they went forth to their conflicts. However, the Wildcats did not hesitate to follow their leader
as he strayed from the straight and narrow path, but with great shouts of joy sprang to their feet. So
great indeed was their enthusiasm that their keepers, commonly known as the Faculty, were constrained to rise to their feet
and stand as they sang. With the whole power of their strong lungs, the husky young Wildcats roared through the
chorus of their war song to the end.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

On to Greenville—and Furman first such club since 1916.

WOFFORD FRESH LOSE TO DAVIDSON FRESH

Coach George’s Freshman team proved their ability as fighters when they conquered Wofford’s Fresh last Friday. The game was not
easily won but at times was very close. They deserve much praise, not individual stars, but eleven men who fought
to the best of their ability and who won a good clean game of football.

While Wofford was outweighed by Davidson they made up for it by their speed and ability to run plays, drawing
first blood by scoring a touchdown in the initial period with a long forward pass. This was the only tally
during this quarter, which ended with Davidson holding the ball on Wofford’s 30-yard line.

During the early part of the second quarter, the Wildkittens scored by intercepting a pass. The pass was blocked and
Thompson grabbed it for a touchdown. The try for point failed. From Wofford’s kick-off, Davidson marched steadily down the field
on a series of passes and end runs and the half ended on Wofford’s 35-yard line. Davidson resorted to these
tactics in the next quarter and, with a defense which Wofford was unable to pierce, gained with an uncanny determination
and scored their second counter. This ended the scoring for the day.

Black took care of the punting for Davidson and his spirals were covered in fine form by the rest of
the team, McDonald tackling several Wofford men almost in their tracks. Sappenfield received an injury while tackling on the three-yard
line.

Line-up and summary:

DAVIDSON (12) WOFFORD (6)
Baker (c) Haynesworth
Right Tackle
Pressly Right Guard
Durham Center
McDow Left Guard
Knotts Left Tackle
Creighton Left End
Rhame Quarter
McDonald Right Halfback
Gaston Left Halfback
West Fullback

Substitutions—Davidson: Williams for Sappenfield, Sappenfield for Williams, Thompson for Vance, Huie for Cox, Cox for Huie, Alford for McDonald, Johnson
for Alford, Cook for Johnson, Alford for Black.

D.

GASTON COUNTY CLUB ORGANIZES FOR ACTION

A Gaston County Club was organized. For the past five years, the number of Gaston and Gastonia men attending Davidson
has been small. However, with the opening of the 1922-23 session, 10 sons from Gaston were found. Officers were elected
and plans were laid for the work of the year. The officials are as follows: Robert L. Stowe, of Belmont,
president; J. B. Hall, vice-president; and M. R. Patrick, secretary-treasurer. Other members of the club include A. S. Anderson, of
Lowell; Ralph H. Falls, Charles K. Marshall, Jr., George W. Ragan, Jr., Ben U. Ratchford, Alfred S. Robinson, and Willie
T. Spencer. The last six named are from Gastonia. Mr. F. L. Jackson is also a member.

For SHOE REPAIRING See BLACK & KIMZY, 10 North Barracks

Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill. Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the Commissary.

MILLS SHOE CO. Statesville, N. C.

SOPHS ADD ANOTHER VICTORY TO THEIR BELT

Last Wednesday night the Soph basketball team upheld their unbroken record of victories this year by defeating the fast Concord
“Y” team. About 100 fellows succeeded in pulling themselves away from their studies and shelled out the necessary 15 cents
to see the game. The Sophs literally ran away from the Concord boys in the first 20 minutes of play.
Exhibiting a brand of basketball rarely seen in the best of varsity games, the five Sophomores, working as one man,
ran up a lead of 25-5 in this first half. Pete Mitchell couldn't miss a goal and rang the basket
no less than eight times. In the second half, the team slowed up considerably and scored only two field goals.
The scrubs were sent in for the last five minutes, and Concord took advantage of this opportunity to score, dropping
in four baskets. The game ended with the Sophs on top of a 29 to 15 score.

D.

COACH GREY ASPIRES TO GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP

Coach Grey, while in Raleigh, bought himself a golf club of exceptional quality and value. This club, being of true
workmanship, was guaranteed to knock a ball a distance of at least 250 yards at every stroke. Coach Grey thought
that with such a club, and with the pretty form and perfect follow-through which he possesses, that he could beat
anyone on the local links. But alas, poor coach was doomed to disappointment. Misfortune befell him the first time he
attempted to use his club during an important foursome. Coachhad obviously lost the “rules and regulations” because he was unaware
of the fact that, in order to send a ball through the air, you must first hit it. He, accordingly,
made a mighty swing and, with disregard to the ball, hit a nearby rock, which splintered his golf club and,
along with it, all hopes of ever becoming a golf champ.

SECRET ORDER APPEARS AS NEW ORGANIZATION

Last Thursday, Mr. E. I. Smith, ex-captain of the 1920 football team at the University of South Carolina, called a
meeting of all men who were interested in the Single Standard of Morals League of America. 131 men signed up
to back the movement. At this meeting, the following officers were elected: C. R. Crawford, president; Baker, W. T., vice-president;
Price, H. B., secretary; M. S. Beall, treasurer; and C. D. Regen, sergeant.

These men will form a nucleus around which the league will function until it gets on its feet. They will
take in, from time to time, groups of eight or 10 men. All the colleges in South Carolina have organized
branches of this league, but Davidson is the first one in North Carolina to organize. It is the purpose of
this league to promote higher ideals of pure morals among men in all the institutions of higher learning in America.
The organizers of this league decided to place it upon the secret order basis, thinking that for this reason the
movement will be more lasting and substantial.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT IS DELAYED BY TARDINESS

The tennis tournament, which was written up somewhat at length in the last issue of the Davidsonian, is being played
off with remarkable slowness. It seems that some of the entries consider the chance of defending Davidson as an honor
hardly worth exerting themselves to gain. The tournament has been going on for practically a month and just about half
of the matches have been played.

The only match played this week was a hard-fought one between Staley and Murray. Murray won, 8-6, 7-5, 6-4. Both
of these men are good players and will probably make the team, though one of them has been eliminated. It
was a case of two good men opposing each other and one had to be eliminated. Harry Price is waiting
to play the winner of the lower bracket, as soon as the entries get up enough energy to walk out
to the courts.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.

WELL TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT LATER
P.S.—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical experience behind every
pair.

R. O. T. C. Notes
By SAM BROWN

The battalion staged an attack on Wednesday, November 15th. The first objective was Doctor Grey’s farm. It was reached without
any casualties, the battalion marching to the position in column of squads. Although the danger was great, the morale was
high. The enemy fire was robbing the trees of their beautifully colored foliage and showering the men with twigs, but
through it all, the songs of the men rang out. Arriving safely at this point, the boys in khaki were
allowed a few moments to rest. Orders were issued by Major Cooper. The attack against the second objective, Davidson, and
incidentally the camping ground of the object of the whole attack, the water supply, was begun. The advance was made
in advance guard formation, the route being an untraveled road through rugged country.

The caps and neckties have arrived and have been issued. This will improve the appearance of the battalion 100 percent.
Try-outs for the rifle team will be held during the early part of December. The gallery range will be open
soon. Matches have already been arranged with Mississippi A. and M., University of Delaware, V. P. I., University of Tennessee,
and Northwestern University, while others are pending. The team promises to be better this year than last and it is
hoped that Davidson will put out a winning team.

Squad Competition

The competitive drill was held on November 8, at the regular Wednesday afternoon drill. The squads of each company were
taken out and drilled separately by their corporals. A committee of three graded each squad. In this way, the best
squad in each company was selected. On the following Wednesday, these four best squads were pitted against each other, with
the result of a tie between the squads from companies A and D. The corporal of the best squad in
Company D is W. C. Ramsay. L. H. Brice is the corporal of the winning squad from Company A. In
the final competition between these two squads, the one from Company A was decided the winner, although it was mighty
near being a tie again. This squad especially deserves its honor since Brice was not a full corporal, but only
acting as such. However, since then Brice has been made a corporal. The other members of the winning squad are:
J. J. Earnhart, Lewis Bachman, A. N. Sinclair, N. G. Anthony, W. C. Byrd, H. S. Rawson, and E. L.
Kennedy. These men will be issued insignia of special distinction as soon as possible.

FIGHTING SPIRIT SHOWN AT BIG PEP MEETING

The old Davidson spirit was very much in evidence last Thursday afternoon when the entire student body went out to
Sprunt Field to let the team know that they had wholehearted support. There were placards on the wire in front
of the bleachers bearing the Wildcat slogan, “Down Carolina!” The band was out and putting everything they had into that
old song dear to all Davidsonians. Yells were given for the college, all the players, and the coaches. The team
showed its appreciation by going through a snappy practice that would have made Fetzer and his Tar Heels tremble had
they been in the vicinity. The students stayed out until practice was over, giving yells, the band playing, and pep
flowing all over the field. The dope and the majority of the people were on Carolina’s side, but the fact
that their backs were against the wall, with a tough enemy in front of them, made the Wildcats really get
wild.

CLASS BASKETBALL

Junior-Senior

In a game featured by a close score and few fouls, the Seniors triumphed over the Juniors last Thursday night
to the tune of 19 to 18. The game was closely contested all the way, first one side taking the
lead and then the other. The Juniors led at the half when the score stood 12 to 11, but the
Seniors kept on with a dogged determination and nosed out the win in the final minutes of play. The crowd
was kept on tiptoes all the way and were well satisfied when the game ended. It would be hard to
say who the individual star of the game was, as the teamwork of both teams stood out prominently. Elkin for
the Juniors contributed a goodly number of points to their score by caging six baskets from the floor while Toney
was high point man for the Seniors. It looked as though the Juniors would win when they accumulated a five-point
lead in the second half, but three goals in the final minutes brought the Seniors to the top. It was,
by far, the most interesting game yet staged. The line-up and score follows:

Seniors: Bostick (6) Forward, Ray (2) Forward, Gentry (2) Center, Bradley (0) Guard, Currie (0) Guard.
Juniors: Elkins (12) Forward, Boushee (2) Forward, McBryde (4) Center, Curtis (0) Guard, Currie (0) Guard.

Substitutions—Seniors: Elliott for Gentry, Calhoun for Elliott, Richards (2) for Grey. Juniors: McConnell for Boushee.
