2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922

FOOTBALL TEAM ENJOYS THANKSGIVING DINNER

Thanksgiving night, after the football team had put up their good fight against Furman, they finished the season by having
a delicious four-course dinner served to them at the Imperial Hotel. It was an informal affair, but the team thoroughly
enjoyed it because of the fact that they were off training and that their work of the season was ended.
The menu was that of a regular Thanksgiving dinner. Places were arranged for 21 men. Among those present were Dr.
J. M. Douglas, Prof. W. W. Wood, Coach Grey, Coach Foster, and Mr. Jack Black, an alumnus.

DIXIE DOPE SEES GEORGIA TECH'S DEFEAT OF AUBURN

Davidson, N. C.
December 4, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The grid season of 1922 has just closed as far as the Wildcats are concerned with one of the hardest
fought and closest games of football ever seen on any man’s field. The Wildcats got beat Turkey Day, but they
played a great game and the Purple Hurricane, which thought that the Wildcats were going to be easy meat, had
to blow their fiercest gale to nose us out, 13-10. Thirteen might be called the Hurricane’s lucky number in that
Turkey Day battle. They scored 13 points which was just enough to nose out the Wildcats. When they got the
ball and marched down the field for their second touchdown, they carried the ball over on the 13th play! There
weren’t but 12 Furman players who got in the game, but Coach Billy Laval was the 13th man and he
counted most of all, so 13 had a lot to do with Furman winning.

The Wildcats didn’t seem to have any specially lucky number, but they stuck in there with ‘em all the time.
There was one curious thing about it, though. Nappy Davis decided to start specializing on nabbing a 23-yard pass for
a touchdown. You know, Joe, that the week before he carried the pigskin over the Fetzer machine’s goal-line. That pass
was for 23 yards and a touchdown. Against the Hurricane, Nappy pulled the same stunt. The ball was reposing peacefully
on the 23-yard line as in the previous contest and for the second time in as many games, the combination,
Brice to Hendrix to Davis, worked for a touchdown. Captain Spratt specialized a little also on receiving passes. His receipt
of one of Gig’s offerings went for 40 yards and from there Gig’s toe did the work and three points
were chalked up for the Wildcats.

Gig Shepherd was the whole show at times. You've heard how in the Carolina-Davidson battle of last year that “Red
Johnson was Carolina.” Well, the fellow that in speaking of this Thanksgiving encounter, said that “Shepherd was Davidson,” hadn’t missed
the road very far. If you saw Gig make a touchdown against Carolina three years ago, you saw another great
game, but it wouldn't be going too far to say you ought to have seen him Turkey Day. That boy
was twisting, sidestepping, and squirming his way through the Furman defense and when he broke through, he showed ’em all
a clean pair of heels. His dependable punting pulled the Wildcats out of several holes and held off the pile-driving
attack of the Baptists. His place-kick along through a schedule of second-rate Southern teams and had lost two intersectional contests
to Notre Dame and Navy. Auburn had downed Centre, Georgia, and Tulane and was doped to be about the best
in the South, but then Tech comes along and knocks all her championship hopes sky high.

Georgia Tech, Vanderbilt, and North Carolina, therefore, are the three that have a claim to the Southern championship. Vandy, by
virtue of victories over Texas, Tennessee, Georgia, and Kentucky, and a tie with Michigan, seems to be the best of
the bunch. Vanderbilt also shows the best defensive work, her opponents scoring only 16 points against her all season.

Alabama’s slaughter of Miss. A. & M., 59-0, Centre’s romp-away from South Carolina, 42-0, while V. P. I. and V.
M. I. were fighting to a 7-3 decision and Auburn was being beaten by Tech, makes the big points score
look about as follows:

Alabama—300, opponents, 75.
Centre—296, opponents, 52.
V. M. I.—291, opponents, 23.
Auburn—283, opponents, 49.
V. P. I.—262, opponents, 38.
Furman—242, opponents, 75.

Of course, Kings College leads them all with 498 points, but then King didn’t exactly play the same kind of
schedule that the others did. Clear titles to the State championship seem to fall in the following States to:

North Carolina—University of North Carolina.
Virginia—V. P. I.
Maryland—University of Maryland.
Tennessee—Vanderbilt.
Kentucky—Centre.
Florida—University of Florida.

In South Carolina, the fact that Clemson beat South Carolina who beat Furman, who in turn beat Clemson, ties things
up considerably, but the University has the best of the points in the triangle. South Carolina made 27 to 10
for her two rivals, Furman scored 27 to her opponents' 33, and Clemson got the short end of a 9
to 20 bargain. In Georgia, the fact that Tech beat the University of Alabama and Auburn who both beat Georgia,
seems to give the State championship to Tech, but goodness knows what would happen if the two played it off.
In Alabama, the only basis of comparison is the fact that Tech beat Alabama worse than she beat Auburn, but
after all, comparative scores don’t count. For instance, glance at the following circles. Who would have ever thought that Nebraska
would beat Notre Dame and yet they did. Syracuse beat Nebraska, 9-6. Penn State beat Syracuse, 21-14. Navy beat Penn
State, 14-0. Pennsylvania beat Navy, 13-7. Alabama beat Pennsylvania, 9-7. Ga. Tech beat Alabama, 33-7. Notre Dame beat Tech, 13-3.
And after all of that with about 70 points of comparative scores against her, Nebraska beat Notre Dame easily, 13-7.
Hence! vain, deluding comparative scores, until next year.

THREE MOVIES FEATURE LAST WEEK’S PROGRAM

There were three picture shows run last week for those who were not fortunate enough to be able to spend
the holidays off the hill. The first of these, “The Face in the Fog,” was a continual brawl from beginning
to end, featuring Lionel Barrymore and Seena Owen. The second, which was shown Friday night, was “The Young Rajah,” featuring
Rodolph Valentino, Wanda Hawley, and Charles Ogle. The late John Ames Mitchell, who founded and controlled “Life” for many years,
wrote a novel which he called “Amos Judd.” This novel was twisted around, cut up, and patched up until the
desired result, “The Young Rajah,” was produced. It was so badly mangled that the picture has very little likeness to
the novel. Although Valentino has a good part, he admits that it is one of the causes of hisRow with
the Paramount people. Judging this picture by the novel from which it sprung, one would have to admit that it
is a ludicrous attempt at adapting a novel. However, judging it merely by its merits as a picture, one might
say that it is an interesting production, and in parts quite exciting. Valentino is up to his usual standard in
this production. In fact, his acting in this picture is excelled only by that in “Blood and Sand.”

The third picture, “Thirty Days,” was shown Saturday night. This picture is slightly different from most of Wallace Reid’s productions
in that he is not so bold and is more timid than usual. The plot is fair and the picture
is quite amusing.

LIBRARY NEWS

Since the Davidson student body will have the privilege of hearing Doctor Grenfell in the early spring, the following books
concerning him will be of interest:
- Adrift on an Ice Pan.
- Down North on the Labrador.
- Down to the Sea.
- Harvest of the Sea.
- Labrador.
- Grenfell of Labrador.
- A Labrador Doctor.

In the New York Times, Theodore Ainsworth Green, of a committee to perpetuate the wonderful work of Doctor Grenfell, made
the following statement:

“The field of Doctor Grenfell’s work includes the northern peninsular of Newfoundland, comprising the districts of Green Bay and St.
Barbe, with a resident population of some 47,000 people, consisting mainly of the descendants of English, Scotch, and French pioneers,
who went there for the fishing; also the Canadian Labrador, comprising a stretch of nearly 300 miles of coast from
Natashquan to Blanc Sablon, in the Straits of Belle Isle, northward on Labrador (controlled by the Newfoundland government) to Cape
Chidley, where there is a population of some 3,000 or more, made up of the descendants of English and Scotch
fishermen, together with some Eskimos and Indians.

“During the summer months, the population of the Labrador is increased by thousands of fishermen and their families who live
on their schooners during the fishing season, and are mainly Newfoundlanders, Canadians, French, and Americans.”

WE’LL TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT LATER

“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.
P.S.—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical experience behind every
pair.

SOPHOMORES CHAMPIONS IN CLASS BASKETBALL

The class basketball season closed on the 28th of November with the Sophs having an undisputed claim to the championship.
The Juniors and Seniors were tied for second, while the Fresh trailed the upperclassmen in every game. Four games were
played off in one week to close the season before Senior speaking. The Seniors defeated the Freshmen, 33-20, in the
first contest, showing a form that they had failed to display earlier in the season. At no time did the
Freshmen prove dangerous opponents and Bostick and Toney kept their team in the lead at all times.

The Sophs gained the championship by defeating the Seniors, 39-22, in a fast and well-played exhibition of the court game.
It was the fastest game of the year and one of the most interesting from the spectators' standpoint. Mitchell and
Anderson, with 13 field goals, were the main factors in the Soph victory. On Saturday night, the Sophs closed the
season undefeated, by winning from the Juniors, 35-13. The Sophs took the lead from the start and were never headed,
although Elkins played the game of his life. Mitchell and Boggs starred for the Sophs, while Elkins played the whole
game for the Juniors. The Junior-Fresh contest, which went to the upperclassmen, 22-16, rang down the curtain on the season
of 1922. The Fresh threw a scare into the Junior camp and led, 12-9, at the intermission. When Elkins, Price,
and McBryde entered the game, the Juniors braced and won handily, 22-16.

CROSS COUNTRY TEAM CHOSEN AT TIME TRIAL

The cross country run preliminary was held Tuesday, the 28th, resulting in the selection of Davidson's team. The day was
not ideal for the run, and the records made in this preliminary trial can be easily improved upon. Seven men
started out in the race, but only two completed the entire distance. A. M. McBryde was the leading man, finishing
in 17 minutes, 20 seconds, followed by J. M. Selser, who completed the course in 17 minutes, 50 seconds. Both
of these men can do a great deal better, the ground being wet on the day of the preliminary. The
remaining five were unable to finish probably because they started out too fast. The other two men who will compose
the team are Galloway and Williford, who were both confined by illness at the time of the preliminary. Due to
the splendid showing these two have made in their training, they will be members of the running quartet.

The State competition cross country run will be staged at Chapel Hill, Saturday, December 9th. This is the first run
of this nature held in this State, the idea originating last year and meeting with the immediate and hearty approval
of the colleges. Prospects for a Davidson victory would be exceptionally good if all the men were in shape for
the contest. Galloway has been hampered by a severe cold, while Williford was still confined in the infirmary last Monday.
There is a strong possibility, however, that should these two men be able to round into shape, Davidson will come
out with first honors.

McBryde looms up as probably the best cog in the fleet-footed machine. He holds the college record for the two-mile
run, which he was able to cop in his Freshman year. Galloway is known to possess the ability to cover
the course in quick order, while Selser and Williford, new men at Davidson, have been training consistently and have shown
splendid qualities as runners.

Compliments of M. C. BRADLEY BARBER SHOP
6 East Trade Street

Our Removal Sale Is Now Going On
25 Per Cent to 50 Per Cent Reduction on all Suits and Overcoats
We Will Move January 1st to 27 N. Tryon St.
