THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1921

LITERARY NEWS

INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HAS INTERESTING MEETING

At the last regular meeting of the International Relations Club, R. K. Shaw, T. A. Freeman, and G. N. Nelson
made very interesting talks on the following subjects of international interest: “French Finance,” “The Conditions in Germany, Social, Political, and
Economic,” and “The Educational System of the Philippines.”

Rod Shaw, speaker on “French Finance,” dealt with a problem of great importance in re-establishing the commercial stability of the
world. The subject was discussed very thoroughly. Archie Freeman’s discussion on “Conditions in Germany” was very interesting. He pictured the
state of affairs in that country in a very clear and forceful manner. The other speaker of the evening, George
Neel, presented a study of the “Educational System of the Philippines” in a manner that showed careful preparation. All of
the speeches showed careful study and good preparation, and were evidence of the speakers’ interest in their subjects.

The International Relations Club has done a great deal of real instructive work this year. The attendance has shown a
decided improvement over that of last year. The papers on international problems and conditions show a depth of thought and
a degree of preparation equaling that of senior thesis. The members of this organization are an evidence of the fact
that, in the future, the alumni of Davidson College will not be lacking in men of the type of Woodrow
Wilson.

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS OF WORK OF VACHEL LINDSAY

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held an interesting program at the Bachelors’ Hall last Wednesday night. Ray Doubles read a
review of “The Mirrors of Downing Street.” It is an anonymous work, the author being unknown. Dr. Shewmake gave an
interesting account of the life and works of Vachel Lindsay. He recounted some interesting incidents in the life of Lindsay
and discussed thoroughly his best works. The Sigma Upsilon together with the Ladies Book Club, of the city, are planning
to have Mr. Lindsay here during the latter part of April. Plans are being made for his entertainment while he
is here on the hill.

1922 “QUIPS AND CRANKS” EXPECTED ABOUT MAY 15TH

The 1922 “Quips and Cranks” is expected to make its initial appearance about May 15th, if not earlier. Last year
the annual did not arrive until a few days before school closed, but that will not be the case this
time. Now that the Wildcat Five has completed its conquests, there is nothing to delay the material in going to
the printer. The plates and engraving have been made and will be the best ever seen in a Davidson publication.
The staff is working hard on the literary section, and it is being turned over to the printer as rapidly
as possible. They expect to have everything in the hands of the printers by the middle of April, which will
give them ample time to finish their portion of the work within the set time.

SCANDINAVIAN ARTISTS TO APPEAR HERE NEXT TUESDAY

Next Tuesday night the students of Davidson will have the opportunity of seeing the great play of a great man
as Ibsen’s “Ghosts” is to be presented. Madame Borgny Hammer, formerly of the National Theatre, of Christiania, Norway, is featured
in this play. Mme. Hammer, according to a recognized critic, is frigid in beauty, dynamic in personality, forceful, yet compellingly
simple and sincere in thought and expression. She brings to her interpretations just the right degree of temperament and understanding,
making her characterizations wonderfully human and real.

Aside from the enviable reputation she has made in Norway, Madame Hammer is rapidly establishing herself in America as one
of the world’s great actresses. She has played Ibsen to large audiences in New York and Chicago, presenting the great
Norwegian dramas, due to her Norwegian birth, training and temperament as no actress in America has hitherto been able to
do. She is now making a coast-to-coast tour of America. The cast also includes Rolf Fjell, an actor of striking
power, from the Central Theatre, of Christiania, and a number of other forceful actors. The scenery for this play was
specially designed and built by Eugene Cox, of Chicago and Michael Carr, of New York. It is understood that the
scenery will be well adapted to the stage in Shearer Hall, which will further the appeal of the play.

“Ghosts,” which is recognized as Ibsen’s great modern masterpiece, reveals the strange past of a man and woman who married
without love. The action of the play is rapid and sweeping, centering about the terrible consequences of this union. The
climax is tremendous and gripping and is certain to thrill the most prosaic.

The funds, included in the fees paid by the students on entrance, for the publication of an annual, have been
found insufficient for the production of a book worthy of Davidson College. By a vote of the student body, each
student is to pay three dollars additional to make up this deficiency. This money will be collected about the middle
of the month.

The feature of the program of the Pandemic Literary Society last Thursday evening was an extemporaneous debate on the mis-stated
question, Resolved: That the Crown Prince is not young. J. H. Davis of the affirmative was able to prove conclusively
to the audience that Ray Carr was upholding the wrong end of the debate. By a rapid-fire attack which consumed
the allotted two minutes, he brought out many points showing that the Crown Prince was advanced in years. Ray Carr
tried to counteract the effect of his opponent’s oratory, but in vain. The house decided that the Crown Prince is
not young.

The regular program was opened with a debate on the question, Resolved: That the United States should have a Navy
equal to the largest in the world. McFadden and Young of the affirmative were victorious over Chien and Hudgins. C.
F. Wildman then covered the whole world in his talk on Current Events. This was followed by an oration on
Gladstone, delivered by J. C. B. McLaughlin. A motion of the house postponed the Fresh-Soph preliminaries until Friday, the 10th.
P. H. McAlpine reported that the treasury was empty and requested all members to pay their spring term fees.NAVAL POLICY
OF UNITED STATES

The Eumenean Society meeting Thursday, March 2nd, was unusually interesting. After devotional exercises, the program for the night was launched.
The subject for debate, “Resolved: That the United States should maintain a Navy equal to that of any other nation
of the world,” proved an interesting bone of contention. The affirmative was ably upheld by Morris, McJunkin, and Martin, while
Ernest, Hollingsworth, and Summers, for the negative, carried their side to victory, the decision of the judges being two to
one in their favor. The reviewer adjudged the best speech to be that of A. C. Summers, while Ernest won
the honors of second best. The reviewer laid great stress on more thorough preparation for debates.

Interesting declamations were rendered by Robins and Steele, while orations by Spraggins and Cooper were especially well prepared and delivered.
The latter took an unusual subject, “The Sweet Potato,” and developed it in a manner interesting and instructive, showing a
remarkable insight into the value of cooperative marketing.

PUNCTUALITY ROLL—FALL SEMESTER OF 1921-22.

Freshman Class.
Chien, C. K.
Gibbs, L. B.
McIver, D. D.
Moss, H. M.
Ramsey, W. C.
Thompson, J. A.

Sophomore Class.
Brown, R. H.
Fain, S. C.
Johnston, J. C.
Stevenson, J. P.
Walthall, D. B.

Junior Class.
Baker, W. T.
McGirt, R. M.
McRainey, J. H.
Roberts, G. B.
Sharpe, W. H.
Wildman, C. F.

Senior Class.
Clark, J. F.
Dew, M. C.
Sanders, C. B.
Tufts, E. H.

Square Pegs Don’t Fit In Round Holes.

PANDEINICS HAVE SHORT FEATURE DEBATE ON AGE

COACH AND MRS. HENGEVELD ENTERTAIN BASKETBALL MEN

Coach and Mrs. Hengeveld delightfully entertained the 1922 Wildcat basketball team at their home on last Thursday evening. The home
was tastefully decorated with the first flowers of spring. Four tables of Rook furnished ample amusement for the guests. Miss
Mary Parks Grey carried off the honors of the evening and was awarded the prize for being the best manipulator
of the cards. About 11 o'clock, enjoyable refreshments consisting of fruit salad and cake were served. The ladies present were:
Misses Mary Black, Helen Gibbs, Mary Parks Grey, Dorothy Finlayson, and Margaret Adams. The Wildcats present were: Capt. Pat Crawford,
Nappy Davis, Geo. Mauze, A. C. Ormond, J. P. Price, Beall, Mallory, Boggs, and Manager Cornelson. Coach and Mrs. Hengeveld
were charming hosts and made everyone have a most enjoyable evening.

PHYSICS BUILDING IS NEARLY READY FOR USE

The Physics department, which has been handicapped probably more than any other as a result of the Chambers’ fire, will
soon have a brand new building. The plastering has already been finished and the electric wiring completed as far as
possible until the carpenters finish their work. It will only take a few days for the floors to be laid.
The Physics department is to have the entire first floor. There are to be two large laboratory rooms, a lecture
room, an office, and a storeroom. On the second floor, there will be four classrooms, four offices, and a storeroom.
These classrooms are to take the place of those that were in the Chambers building. In the basement of the
new building, there will be two rooms suitable for classes or small laboratory rooms. The building will have steam heat.
The contractors for installing the plant will have their part ready by the time the carpenters have finished. Blackboards and
recitation benches are already in stock and are ready to be installed. The building will be painted in the summer.
When this building is complete, it will go far to relieve the congestion now in some of the departments and
serve amply until the greater Davidson plans are realized.

LIBRARY ADDS INTERESTING NEW VOLUMES FOR STUDENTS

The library has recently received some interesting books on a variety of subjects. The few listed below will suffice to
give an idea of the value of the new books and the diversity of subjects dealt with. One of the
most noteworthy is “The Open Sea,” by Edgar Lee Masters. This book consists of three groups of new poems by
this author on subjects of past and current history. Intellectual curiosity is one of this poet’s most unvarying characteristics, and
in “The Open Sea” he has focused it upon more subjects of vital interest today than in any other volume.
“The Tragedy of Lord Kitchener,” by Reginald Viscount Esler, will be of great interest to all who care to read
of the life and death of this great man. Another book of timely interest is “More That Must Be Told,”
by Phillip Gibbs. This book is a fascinating tale of intrigue in Europe today. “Eminent Victorians,” by Lytton Strachly, is
a fine historical and biographical study of the lives of four great Victorians: Cardinal Manning, Florence Nightingale, General Gordon, and
Dr. Arnold. “Roaming Through the West Indies,” by Harry A. Franck, is a story of the author’s ramblings through this
fascinating group of islands. It is profusely illustrated by photographs taken by the author.

McGukin—“You're Sharpe.”
Sharpe—“I’m sorry I can’t return the compliment.”

Fresh—“Did you know Al is suing for a divorce?”
Soph—“Al who?”
Fresh—“Alimony.”

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
We guarantee title, principal, and interest.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville PROGRAM
Thurs., Fri., Sat., Mar. 9th, 10th, 11th.
OVERTURE
EARL AND SUNSHINE in a Comedy Satire "Yesterday and Today”
PHILSON AND DUNCAN The Versatile Pair
SULLIVAN AND MEYERS in “They Auto Know”
FRANK SABINI & CO. in a New Version of Their Comedy Novelty “I QUIT”
Pathe News and Harold Lloyd
THE KELIORS The Last Word in Sensational Gyrating

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
W. W. MOORE, D.D., LL.D., President
Oldest Theological Seminary in the Southern states. Young as the youngest in its progressive methods. A Theological Seminary that makes
preachers. 42% of present student body from Davidson College. Catalogue and information upon request.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
SPORTING GOODS
Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach, and Wright & Ditson goods.
We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.
RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faal, Mgr.
Phone 902
18 B. Trade St.
