THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

College students should work eight hours and sleep eight hours, but not the same eight hours.

Fresh Evans (knocking on 33 Georgia door)—“Eight o’clock. Eight o'clock.”
Gallant (sleepily)—“Did you? Better call a doctor.”

Oh, her name was Irene,
And she wore crepe de chene;
You could see more Irene
Than you could crepe de chene.

It is estimated that the habit of rolling the stocking has saved the knock-kneed girls enough pairs of hose to compensate for all the oculists’ bills that the men have had to pay since the idea became prevalent.

If a college has a good football team it doesn’t worry a helva lot about what becomes of the rifle team.

Uncle Baxter, the cleaner-up on the campus, straightened up from his habitual stoop. He put several pieces of elusive paper which had been thrown on the campus into his brown sack. Several Sophomores passed, Arbuthnot leading the bunch.
“Well,” said Uncle Baxter, “cleaning up after these fellows is something like being an usher in Hades. Steady job but no future.”

Bob McLeod—“I think I’ll take up baseball, Red.”
Red Smith—“Why for?”
Bob—“It’s the only thing I can pass.”

“Is she pretty?”
“Boy, she’s so pretty that when she gets on a street car the advertising is a total loss.”

“Hang it all,” said the housewife to the laundress.

Prof. (after a long-winded proof)—“And now we find that Z equals 0!”
Holthouser—“Darn! All that work for nothing?”

Koenig—“Yes, I'm out for track.”
Pretty Baby—“Well, if you stick around me much you'll soon increase your speed.”

The latest style is called ‘The Prodigal Skirt.’ It brings out the fatted calf.

Professor—“Have you an excuse for your last absence?”
Ted Jones—“No, but if you will tell me when it was, I'll get you one.”

She—“They say you have two hundred and twenty-odd Freshmen this year.”
Mebane—“Yes, every one of them is.”

Bevo Davis—“Which is correct: a herd of camels or a drove of camels?”
Pat Kimzey—“I always thought they came in packs.”

By the proper mixture of chemicals you can pass Chem,
By the juggling of figures you can pass Math,
By the mingling of words you can pass Eng,
But try to pass Geology by confusing rocks—Try and Do It.

“You might be a ‘big gun’ at college,” father writes, “but no reports have reached me yet.”

When you have to leave your home and friends,
And travel back to school,
When you have to go to work again
And have no time to fool,
When you know the reviews you must take
Are coming along pell-mell,
I ask you now as stude to stude
Ain't life h——?

When you hear the bell ring eight,
And hate to rise from bed;
When you get to breakfast 10 minutes late,
And find a door instead;
When you turn your weary steps towards your room
And expect a letter swell,
Then find nothing but a bill or two,
Ain't life h——?

Economics 1.
Prof. A. Currie—“I can’t make out the name on this paper.”
Matheson, W. H.—“That’s mine, Doctor.”

Leaving Class
Bob Cochran—“Did you hear me sneeze in English just now, Bevo?”
Bevo—“What language do you usually sneeze in?”

PRESBYTERIANS MEET WAKE FOREST FOE

When the Davidson Wildcats, fresh from their victorious 19-0 defeat by Georgia Tech, tie up with Wake Forest on Wearn Field Saturday, it will be the 12th encounter of the two teams. Of the 11 occasions upon which the two have struggled, the Presbyterians have come off conquerors 10 times, while Dame Fortune has smiled on the Baptists but once, last year, when they provided the upset of the season by copping a 10-7 verdict. Until the “miracle of miracles” happened last year, the Red and Black had all the best of the argument. They not only collected 10 straight victories, but they...rolled up 239 points to Wake’s 38 in doing it. The scores, year by year, follow:

1908, Davidson 31; Wake Forest 4
1910, Davidson 32; Wake Forest 0
1911, Davidson 9; Wake Forest 0
1912, Davidson 13; Wake Forest 7
1913, Davidson 6; Wake Forest 0
1914, Davidson 7; Wake Forest 6
1915, Davidson 21; Wake Forest 7
1917, Davidson 72; Wake Forest 7
1919, Davidson 21; Wake Forest 0
1920, Davidson 27; Wake Forest 7
1921, Davidson 7; Wake Forest 10

It was in the years '12, '13, and '14 that the Baptists gave the Wildcats their hardest scraps. Each year they had a heavier team and were confident of victory, but every time the Red and Black floated over the Old Gold and Black. Heckman, the outstanding star of the Baptists, has been out of two games this season. He made the All-State last year and was the main factor in his team’s victory over the Wildcats. He carried the ball over for Wake's touchdown and followed it by kicking goal and finally won the game by booting a 30-yard field goal.

The game will be the first of the season in Charlotte and a large crowd is sure to be on hand. Both colleges have large followings in the Queen City and with the Davidson and Queens’ student bodies on hand it is sure to be a lively affair.

INTEREST IN GOLF IS GROWING AT DAVIDSON

Those interested in golf will be glad to note that the work of cleaning up the course is practically completed and that inside of a week the course will be in fair condition. So far unusual interest has been shown and it is hoped more will come out to take up the game.

Within the coming month the club is planning to engage in two matches with nearby teams. This will give a line on the material for the year. During the past few days many students have had the privilege of seeing Lieutenant Woodrow Clark, of Camp Benning, perform on the course. He is a Davidson graduate and a star golf player, holding a high place in the realm of excellent players. Those who did not see him play will be interested to know that on the first round he turned in a 39, thus showing his skill on the course.

The course is here for use and students have the privilege of learning the game without any expense whatever. Take advantage of the opportunity, it’s yours.

WORLD SERIES RETURNS CREATE MUCH INTEREST

What is the cause of all this attention paid to the window of the White Drug Company? What is it that moves the Fresh to rush down at all hours of the afternoon, take one wild-eyed look at the window, and in the same manner in which they came, return to report the results of their investigations? Did D. C. crush Georgia Tech or did Arbuthnot fail to be the first one in at breakfast? Why, don’t you understand? The world series is on between the “New York World” and the “New York Herald.” Some of the bolder ones in our midst have even ventured to back up their favorites in a decided financial way, the same being detrimental to a marked degree to the deposits of the boarding house managers and the commissary. Oh, well, the world series comes but once a year, therefore, let joy and interest be unconfined.

NEXT DOOR TO WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.
Commissary.

MILLS SHOE CO.
We carry a big line of PIPES, CIGARS, CIGARETTES and SODAS
Anything in the Smoking Line
H. & H. CIGAR CO.
32 South Tryon St.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

For SHOE REPAIRING See
BLACK & KIMZY,
Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill
Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the
10 North Barracks
Statesville, N. C.

FLORSHEIM SHOE
averaged over their long period of service
FLORSHEIM SHOES are truly economical—their cost per month surprisingly low
H. C. LONG COMPANY
33 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE
Home of Michaels-Sterns