THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 21, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

WALTER CAMPBELL

It is with keen regret and sympathy that Davidson men will learn of the death of Walter L. Campbell, ex-’23,
of Norwood, N. C. He met an almost sudden death by accidentally falling from a third-story window in Washington, D.
C., on April 10th. Walter, entering Davidson with the class of ’23, soon became one of the most popular and
well-liked members of his class. His musical ability soon won him a place on the glee club. He was also
a member of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity. After spending a year at Davidson, he went to Wake Forest where
he took a law course, which led to his entry to the North Carolina bar in 1921. He practiced law
in Statesville and in Albemarle for several months and then went to Washington, D. C., four months ago, where he
accepted a position in the Department of Internal Revenue as a prohibition enforcement agent.

It was while waiting for some friends who had promised to help him locate an apartment that he could occupy
after May 3rd, when he was to be married to Miss Dorothy Powell, of Charlotte, that his tragic death occurred.
His death is mysterious in that no one saw him fall. It is supposed, however, that he had raised a
window to cool off, and became dizzy or fainted and fell headlong to the pavement thirty feet below, dying a
few minutes later. The verdict of the coroner’s jury was that he “was accidentally killed.”

His father, Dr. J. I. Campbell, and his uncle, W. F. Long, accompanied his remains to Rockingham, N. C., where
he was buried on April 13th. His death came as a sudden shock to his many friends both in college
and among alumni. Their deepest sympathies go out to his father in the untimely death of his only child.

VOLUNTEERS ALL!

One way in which Davidson has taken her place at the top of the list among the colleges of America
is in the missionaries that she has sent and is sending to every continent. Lest we forget some of Davidson’s
worthy sons who are engaged in this noble work, some of them are listed here. There is no complete list
available, although one is being made, but these names are listed with the latest information obtained: W. I. Baker, ’09,
H. L. Reaves, ’11, Soochow, China; W. P. Parker, ’11, Penyang, Korea; M. M. Yosip, ’11, Uromio, Persia; F. W.
Price, '15, Yale Seminary; W. A. Dumas, '15, W. A. McIlwaine, ’15, Kochi, Japan; C. M. Gibbs, ’15, N. P.
Farrior, '16, J. G. Patton, ’16, D. V. Hudson, '17, Johns Hopkins Medical School, W. L. Sayad, '17, drowned in
attempt to rescue another, J. K. Hobson, ’17, E. H. Hamilton, '17, Union Seminary, G. A. Hudson, '18, preparing for
departure for China; P. B. Price, ’17, U. P. I., Baltimore, Md.; C. E. Rankin, ’17, H. A. Dishough, '18,
H. T. Lilly, ex-’19, C. F. Monroe, ’18, J. R. Woods, ’18, Tsing Kiang Pu, China; L. H. Patterson, ’18,
J. B. Wood, '18, China, W. C. Cummings, ’18, W. C. Worth, ’10, L. C. Brand, ex-’19, R. E. McClure,
’20, C. W. Worth, '19, C. W. Baba, ’21. This list, though incomplete, gives an idea of the Davidson men
who have given their lives to Christian work abroad. There are now enrolled at Davidson about 50 in the Volunteer
Band.

HERE AND THERE

Mr. S. E. Sloop, '01, is a progressive farmer of Mt. Ulla, N. C., about eight miles from Mooresville. He
has six children. Mr. William Hollister, ’16, is a senior this year in the Maryland Medical School. He has recently
decided to go as a medical missionary. He may be addressed at 1202 N. Charles St., Baltimore, Maryland. Clewell Howell,
’19, is at the University of Maryland Medical School, in Baltimore. P. P. Maxwell, ’96, is a business man of
Washington, N. C. Rev. D. McD. Monroe, ’16, is pastor of the Liberty and Baxter Presbyterian Churches, Greenback, W. Va.
Dr. C. C. Kelly, ’09, is now located in Hartford, Conn. R. C. Long, ’13, is in Gastonia, N. C.
L. G. Hicks, ’16, is located in Wilmington, N. C. J. A. Steele, ’98, visited the hill last week. While
in college Mr. Steele was a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and a member of the football squad. For
a number of years, he was the holder of the track record for the quarter mile. He is now superintendent
of the Iredell County Schools. W. C. Wooten and F. B. Gaither, both of Statesville, N. C., were on the
campus last week.

BIRTHS

W. N. Mebane, Jr., ’18, of Dublin, Va., is the proud father of Miss Julia Killian Mebane, born March 24th.

RED AND BLACK MACHINE (Continued from page 3)

Score by innings: Davidson 012 035—14 Wake Forest 111—13

Summary: Two base hits—McMillian, Armstrong, Edwards, Albritton, Brown, Pritchett (3). Three base hits—Crawford, Barnes. Home run—Crawford. Sacrifice hits—McLeod, L. Erwin,
Ellis, Edwards, Albritton. Total bases—Davidson 27; Wake Forest 14. Walked—by Sorrells 5; Johnson 3; by Streamey 3; by Bouchee 2.
Struck out, by Sorrells 2; by Johnson 5; by Bowden 2. Umpire Holland.

Elon Game

The Wildcat clan of hard-hitting fence-busters wound up their North Carolina trip by taking the measure of Elon 9-8. The
Davidson team collected 17 safeties again, including two doubles and two triples. Every man on the team except McMillan connected
for at least one hit. Crawford, the slugging first-baseman, was the individual star for the Wildcats. Pat made five trips
to the platter and each time he came through with a safety, his first being good for three sacks. He
drove in two runs, scored another, and was caught at the plate on another occasion. In the field, he had
a perfect day, handling 11 chances successfully. The Davidson runs came in bunches. A batting rally in the first scored
three. After one was gone, Brice doubled to left and scored on Crawford’s triple to center. McLeod rolled to Marlette
and Pat was caught at the plate.- Pritchett doubled to left and Freeman’s single scored two. The Wildcats got started
again in the fifth. Boushee, M. Erwin, Brice, and Crawford singled in order. McLeod forced M. Erwin at third but
Pritchett took up the good work again and singled to center; Freeman followed suit. McMillan walked and L. Erwin’s three-ply
swat sent a crowd over. Boushee finally ended the inning by taking three healthies and missing. In the meantime, Elon
had collected eight runs off Boushee, the sixth lap starting with Davidson in the lead 9 to 8. Both pitchers
then clamped down and during the next four innings neither side was able to score. Elon got two men to
second but they could get no further. Davidson had men on all three cushions but couldn’t get them across the
rubber. Box-score:

Davidson:
M. Erwin
Brice, rf
Brown, rf
Crawford, 1b
McLeod, lf
Pritchett, cf
Freeman, 3b
McMillan, c
L. Erwin, ss
Boushee, p

Totals: 40 9 17 27 17 5

Elon:
Patton, ss
Cheek, rf
Johnston, 2b
Clarke, cf
Marlette, 1b
Newman, 3b
Allston, lf
Underwood, c
Fogleman, p

Totals: 41 8 12 24 8 0

Score by innings:
Davidson 523 300 000—9
Elon 023 120 000—8

Summary: Two-base hits: Pritchett, Brice, Allston, Underwood; three-base hits: Marlette, L. Erwin, Crawford; stolen bases: Pritchett, Freeman, Marlette, Allston; sacrifice
hits: M. Erwin, Underwood; double play: Boushee, M. Erwin and Crawford; total bases: Davidson 23, Elon 16; walked: by Boushee
1, by ——, 1; struck out: by Boushee 4, by Fogleman 1, by ——, 1; umpire: Ragsdale.

N. C. STATE CINDER PACKERS (Continued from page 1)

Hurdles: Hendrix, Crawford, K. M., Regen, LaFar, Parrish, and Calhoun were other Red and Black representatives. Although defeated, the Wildcat
cinder squad showed what it could do, and will do, with adequate coaching. Almost every man participating was partaking in
his first college track meet, which is in itself a severe handicap. However, all feel and know the dormant power
that lies in the feet of the squad and the achievements of which they are capable.

TRACK TEAM HAS DIFFICULTY (Continued from page 1)

A throw of 129 feet 9 inches will certainly be hard to beat. Their pole vaulters and jumpers are apt
to prove dangerous also. Two of their men recently tied with an 11 feet 3 inch mark on the pole
vault. Five feet six inches seems to be their best in the high jump, but they are strong again on
the broad, with 20 feet to their credit. In the dashes, they have not shown up so well. They seem
to get the best results in the distance affairs, with first place in the two-mile, Saturday. All in all, it
seems their weakest point is the dashes. There is no denial that they are going to make it hot for
Davidson in a good many events.

The girl with a pretty knee can grin and bare it.—Purple and White.

The room thus assigned will, in the case of new students, be retained until the fifteenth of July, after which
it will be forfeited unless the high school certificate has been received and found satisfactory.

No room is rented for less than one term, allowed unless by permission of the Treasurer.

Systems of Steam Heating For Comfort and Results
C. FERBER, Resident Sales Eng.
911 Commercial Nat'l. Bank Bldg.
Charlotte

IF YOU WANT IT PRINTED
BRADY PRINTING STATIONERY OFFICE SUPPLIES
We will appreciate the Student business
ARE THE FOLKS AT STATESVILLE PRINTING CO TO SEE!

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life If you have a NEW EDISON in the home
If you do not have one you are missing a lot
LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON
“The phonograph with a soul”
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers
231 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
A HOME company
GREENSBORO, N. C.
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
H. J. Spencer, Mgr.
A HOME BUILDER

Satisfactory Plumbing and Heating
McAULEY, GARRISON & HOPKINS CO.
Plumbing and Heating Contractors
313-315 East Trade St.
Phone 143
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
IDEAL ARCOLA HEATING DISTRIBUTORS

ERNEST ELLISON
“Just Insurance”
Any Kind Any Where
203 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N.C.

EXTRACTS FROM THE CATALOGUE.

Assignment of Rooms.
Rooms in the dormitories will be assigned under the following regulations:
1. For a student to retain his share in a particular room for the next session, he must notify the
Treasurer in writing on or before May 10th, and pay him the room deposit of $10.00.
2. After May 10th, all rooms or parts of rooms not applied for will be assigned in order of application
and payment of room deposit.
3. All deposits for a room claimed and occupied on or before the third day of the session by the
one signing for the room will be applied on the current rent for the room. After this time, the deposit
will be forfeited.
4. The Treasurer will co-operate with the students as far as possible to secure a congenial and proper room-mate, but
if by May 10th, he will be free to fill the vacancy.
5. Every occupant is held responsible for the proper care of his room and furniture, and any damage other than
that arising from ordinary use will be charged to the student’s account, or he will be barred from rooming in
the college buildings.
6. The room thus assigned will, in the case of new students, be retained until the fifteenth of July, after
which it will be forfeited unless the high school certificate has been received and found satisfactory.
7. No room is rented for less than one term, allowed unless by permission of the Treasurer.
