4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Lina Collegiate Press Association
Seutinea Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: P. PRICE
Forum Editor: S. CURRY
Managing Editor: H. H. SPRUNT
Campus Editor: D. H. OGDEN, JR.
Social Editor: W. J. COOPER
Literary Editor: J. H. McKEITHEN
Alumni Editor: W. M. MORRISON
Press Editor: G. W. BEDFORD
Exchange Editor: J. S. MOORE

CLUB REPORTERS:
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V.
HESTON, W. M.
MORRISON, W. M., Sec.-Treas.
JONES, J. R.
BROHOUN, M. P.
TULLER, C. Y.
COX, W. M.
KNOX, W. I.
WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D.
LACY, T. A.
WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T.
UZE, E. H.
WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Manager: C. WOOL
Business Managers: L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK, and W. S. SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES, Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department:
D. TULLER
P. C. HENDERSON
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

The signs of increased activity on the site of our proposed new dormitories are bringing fresh encouragement to the student
body. There will be no lack of rooms next fall at any rate.

We learn from the press reports that someone has just invented a serum which will make a man tell the
truth. Now why doesn’t somebody come forward with an antitoxin for the spring fever?

CLASS SPIRIT.

The lesson brought out in last week’s Open Forum discussion under the title of “A Square Deal” is one which
may well be taken to heart by the entire student body. The writer, who signs himself ’23, takes up the
cudgels in behalf of the much-abused Sophomore class and speaks of the unjust treatment which it has received at the
hands of the other students. Admitting that the class is by no means perfect, he points out the fact that
it is nevertheless possessed of many virtues and that much of the criticism which has been directed against it might
much better have been left unspoken. The point is, in our opinion, well taken, for the instance mentioned is one
in which such criticism offered in the wrong spirit may very easily do more harm than good. It may be
true, and probably is, that the Sophomores have deserved many of the reproaches which have been heaped upon them, but
it is also true that none of the other classes have attained such a state of perfection as to be
able to indulge in any slighting remarks about them.

Class spirit and class rivalry unquestionably have an important part to play in the life of the college. Without them,
athletics would languish, many valuable institutions and customs of campus life would be neglected, and the fellowship of the students
would be less close. It is a poor class whose members are not loyal to one another and filled with
a spirit of pride in their common aspirations and achievements, and it is a poor man who would wish to
change his class for another. When class spirit reaches such a point that it can see only the good in
its own class and nothing but faults in the others, however, it has gone a bit too far for the
common good. Let us be more tolerant.

A NEGLECTED ACTIVITY.

Davidson has already been engaged in one inter-collegiate debate this year. In this contest, her debaters were victorious over Randolph-Macon
by a four to one decision of the judges. Within a few weeks, another team is to meet the representatives
of Wake Forest in a similar contest, and it is probable that before the end of the spring term still
another institution will be met in forensic struggle. Davidson debaters have made and are making an enviable record for their
college, but in spite of this fact, the vast majority of the students manifest little or no interest in the
efforts of their representatives. This is not as it should be.

It is only natural that athletics should take first place in the thoughts of the student body. There is something
fascinating about a contest in physical skill and endurance between two well-trained teams; something which appeals to man’s primeval instinct
to match his strength with that of another. It is this fact which gives athletics the high place it holds
in the colleges of today, and which will in all probability keep it there throughout the years to come. A
successful athlete earns by hard labor the support and admiration of his fellows, and we would not, if we could,
lessen his reward. We do contend, however, that the man who represents an institution in a contest of brains is
also worthy of the honor which his college mates can offer him. Is the ability to stand before a crowd
and think clearly and coolly less to be desired than physical prowess? Is it more honorable to be a good
broken field runner or an invincible pitcher than to sway an entire audience by the power of oratory? The latter
may be less spectacular, it is true, but it is none the less valuable for that. The intercollegiate debater works
just as hard for his college as does the greatest athlete of them all, and should be given the recognition
and praise which he so well deserves.

Open Forum

CAST THAT BALLOT!

We have in college more than four hundred and fifty men. Less than three hundred and fifty of these voted
in the first student body election of the spring. A hundred men or more did not show enough interest in
one of the major activities of the campus to cast a vote one way or the other. How these might
have voted is not known, but the fact that they did not vote either way even when two check marks
and their signature was all that was necessary, is to be regretted.

A citizen who doesn’t care enough about how his community is run to vote, is not worthy of citizenship in
the community. The student who is not enough interested in his school activities to vote for the men suggested as
leaders in the various college activities is not worthy of this privilege either. It is high time that a good
percentage of our students woke up and observed what is going on around them. It is high time that this
percentage did some intelligent thinking for themselves and then evidenced this thinking in lending their efforts to the promotion of
the best interests of the campus life.

It should not be possible at Davidson, which has a reputation at least for democracy, for any man to hold
an office which is decided by student vote unless he has more than half as many votes as there are
students in the college. There will be several other elections this spring. We have good men available. Let’s consider who
the best men are and vote for them at all costs!

DR. VANDER MEULEN HELPS
(Continued from page 1)

The attempt be made to fit round pegs in square holes. A tower is a place of refuge as well
as a thing of beauty. When trouble comes it is a place to which we may retreat, as was done
in the olden days. Dr. Vander Meulen told of the psychological truth employed by salesmen who show their article and
its merits first and not let the price be known until the last. And so if one keeps his eye
on the tower, its necessity will become so evident and his desire for it will become so great that the
price will become insignificant. Dr. Vander Meulen’s addresses have been a great deal of help in aiding students to “find
themselves” and to intelligently judge what theyare best fitted for. The keen interest that the addresses have aroused among the
students is evinced by the way they have been attending the services.

Friday Night.
On Friday night, Dr. Vander Meulen spoke on, “The Essentials of Leadership,” his text being taken from Isa. 32:2. In
the man of the future, there will be two sides which he must develop, in order to be a leader,
namely the physical and moral. As was true in the time of Isaiah, Dr. Vander Meulen showed that today there
are two main elements of leadership: first, stay against drifts, and second, refreshment from the heat of the world.

There are many kinds of drifts which may easily imperil the life of man. In the first place, there are
drifts of heredity. Every man receives, to a certain degree, a drift of some nature, through heredity. The only way
to overcome this danger is to place it behind and hide it forever. There are many other drifts that one
can meet through environment. Jesus, a man of stupendous bravery, was constantly surrounded by drifts of environment, but He turned
His back on them.

In the second place, a true leader must always be a refreshment. His life may be compared to the different
stages of a river, which is always refreshing, though there are many changes constantly taking place. A leader must be
willing to talk Christ in his busiest hours. He must be simple, cheerful, and happy in religion.

Sunday Night.
The culmination of the life work campaign came Sunday night, when Dr. Vander Meulen spoke at the “Y” service on
the subject, The Attractiveness of the Ministry.

The service was opened with a live, enjoyable musical program, part of which consisted of a duet by Allison and
Buchanan and a quartet by Ted Jones, Bob McLeod, A. L. Currie, and D. P. McGeachy.

Dr. Vander Meulen, after paying some marks of respect to Dwight Chalmers, the “Charmer,” delivered one of the most powerful
addresses of his series. The attractiveness of the ministry was considered from three angles—the intellectual attractions, the affectional attractions, and
the rewards of service.

The opportunities for intellectual development of ministers and lawyers were compared. In the ministry, by constant application and concentration of
thought on the greatest truths of the universe, the mind reaches its highest stage of development. The affection of others
goes to the minister perhaps more than to any other person. The minister is considered a true friend at baptism,
marriage, death, and in fact every stage of life.

In considering the rewards of service, the speaker showed that the rewards of service as a minister excel those of
any other vocation. By relating several personal experiences it was shown that the ministry offers varied experiences of every kind.
The minister, with high idealism shining in his eyes and throbbing in his heart, is the greatest uplifter of humanity.
The theory that there are no laughs in the ministry was completely exploded, for the person who can really enjoy
life the most is the one who has an intense purpose and is doing his duty to God.

Dr. Vander Meulen’s addresses were all well colored with a keen sense of humor. By bringing in his clever little
“Side-lights” in the right proportion he made his talks not only appealing and effective but also attractive and extremely interesting.
His capability in dealing with the problem of life work will make his influence at Davidson long felt. The hearty
co-operation of practically every student and professor was shown. A new high water mark was reached in attendance at these
services.

The Personal Interviews.
In his personal conferences, Dr. Vander Meulen drove home with the same forcefulness and clarity which characterized his public addresses,
the everlasting truths of consecration and service regardless of vocation. By far the greater portion of his stay here was
spent in unselfish and whole-hearted interviews with men. Beginning with the afternoon of his arrival and continuing until half an
hour before his train was scheduled to leave, Dr. Vander Meulen held more than one hundred and fifteen personal conferences,
lasting from ten minutes to an hour. Of the men who sought guidance in choosing their vocation, 47 were Seniors,
31 were Juniors, 13 were Sophomores, and 17 were Freshmen.

The time Dr. Vander Meulen unselfishly gave to this work was in excess of 30 hours, or more than six
times the hours spent in public addresses. However, we are certain that in these long hours of personal, face-to-face contact,
many men caught his spirit and found help and inspiration that will abide with them long after they have forgotten
the subjects of his addresses.

FOLLOW HIS EXAMPLE
That’s what almost everybody does. Very few of us do things which are purely original. Some few have the ability
to start new things. The rest of us must watch those few and pick out the good things they do
and do them. We are all creatures of suggestion, and as such we can only decide what suggestion we will
accept and use. When we see our neighbor study we may study too. When we see him loaf we are
most sure to loaf with him. The other day I went to Charlotte with a friend who bought a suit
of clothes. I didn’t really need one but if I had had the money I would have followed his example.
When the other fellow dresses up we want to dress up too.

Ed. Mellon’s are dressing up for us this spring. They are putting in new furniture and fixtures and are painting
up inside and out. Let us show that we appreciate this example and dress up too. When you go to
Charlotte, go to Mellons first. You probably won’t go anywhere else. If you do you will go.

EXCHANGE
Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

New York University has raised its standards of admission so that the students who enter in the fall of 1924
must have at least one year of college work or its equivalent. In the fall of 1926 two years of
college work will be required.

According to the “Technique” Georgia Tech has declared war on gambling on athletic contests. The statement was issued by Georgia
Tech athletic authorities and Coach Alexander.

The Chinese students of the various institutions of learning in this country, in connection with the Disarmament Conference, have formed
an alliance for the purpose of advocating China’s cause. A weekly paper entitled the China Advocate is being published by
this organization, the purpose of which is to put before the people true facts in regard to the Far East.

MEN DIFFER.
A fond father approached the president of a certain college, and said, “Your course of study is entirely too hard
for my Archibald, and it takes too long, so I want to know if you can’t arrange it so that
he can take a shorter, quicker course.” The president replied, “Why, certainly! It all depends upon what you wish to
make of him. When God wants to make an oak He takes a hundred years, but He takes only two
weeks to make a squash. Good day!”

The old man was sending his son to college and it was a sad parting. “Boy,” said the father, as
he dried his tears on his suspender buckles, “always spit on the dice before you set them and when you
start to draw to an inside straight, remember the mortgage on the farm.”

The Mercer Cluster.
Mississippi, Howard, Emory, and Furman will be Mercer’s opponents in Inter-collegiate Debating this year.

The Emory Wheel.
Trinity, Millsaps, Mississippi U., Mercer, and Rollins College are on Emory’s Debating program.

BOTHERATION.
The moon above,
Two hearts in love.
Adoration.
A whispered “Please!”
A gentle squeeze.
Approbation.
Sweet lifted lips,
Moments of bliss.
Osculation.
A footstep near
“Don’t hold me, Dear.”
Deviation,
Her Hila, then
Boot number ten.
D—nation.

A word to the wise—
Princeton University students took an active part in the New York City mayoralty campaign just closed. Under the auspices of
the Princeton Speakers Association four speakers were sent to New York City each day to speak for coalition candidates.

Know Yourself and Your Work.
