THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 21, 1921.

The DAVIDSONIAN
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
Be “The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Forum Editor
Campus Editor
M. C. A. Editor
Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Alumni Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD
Exchange Editor
Secretary Editor
Press Editor

CLUB MOFFE REPORTERS:
Monte J. R. BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
INES, R. R.
MOORE BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas.
MOSS, M.
ALLISON, O. J.
PRICE, H. B.
BITZER
LER, C. D.
CALHOUN, M. P.
WALTHALL, D. B.
KARNEST, J. R.
WHARTON, D. B.
FEWELL, ED.
WILDMAN, A. C.

Reporters:
Graves, R. N., Lake, J. A., Galloway, W. F., White, R. G., Choe, J. F., Pomeroy, W. L., Williams, J. M., McLean, S., Weeks, G. E., Jones, J. R., Regen, C. D., McLain, W. A., Briggs, J. R.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
W. J. COOPER... Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E.
W. G. GUILLE... Assistant Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
Assistant Circulation Manager
R. B. LILES
THROWER
C. MOOMAW
J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

A NEGLECTED OPPORTUNITY.

A month or more ago an editorial on a neglected activity showed the success that our debaters this year were having, and how meager their reward was when compared with success achieved in athletics. The literary societies, where these debaters were trained and selected, were spoken of as offering a similar opening to every man to train himself for the many times in the future when it will be necessary for him to speak in public; further, if more of us were interested in these societies, a heartier support and wider recognition would be given our intercollegiate debaters. The society work, however, does not appeal to all, and because of this, many fail to gain a very beneficial part of the training offered here.

There is another opportunity often opened to us that we neglect as badly, if not worse, than that mentioned above. In addition, the excuse of lack of ability cannot be made here. From time to time, lectures and speakers of note are secured to give us talks on various subjects. Nothing could be easier than to spend an hour after supper, which so many of us waste as it is, at these lectures, yet a surprisingly small number are present as a rule. At no time are these men gotten here without quite a large amount of time being spent by some member of the faculty in advertising and arranging the details of the visit. Besides this, the cost element is always present. During the year no small amount of money is expended in getting men to give to us the experience and knowledge that it has taken them the richer part of a lifetime to amass. When there is no real cause for our absence, and always so many reasons why we should be interested and benefited, can’t we see more clearly what an addition attending these lectures will make to the training we are receiving, and go!

Still another result of this lack of interest must be considered. In some colleges, the students have so far failed to take advantage of what was offered them, that the faculty has thought it better not to have any lectures given at all, lest by such small audiences a bad impression of the school be made upon the speakers and an unfavorable report spread over the country. We certainly want neither of these things to happen to Davidson. It is up to us to realize more fully and take more interest in the advantage we have, if we want to be entirely safe in preserving an opportunity we can so ill afford to lose.

DO YOUR PART!

Some time before this spring’s elections were held for the coming year’s officers, we were all urged to think carefully over the men we would vote for. The duties and problems that would fall to those elected were pointed out, together with the fact that only by an honest vote on the part of everyone could we hope to have the proper officers selected. All knew that such was really the case, but many would otherwise, perhaps, have overlooked this duty as well as privilege which each year we have to face.

Now these elections are over. We have picked the men we want, and upon their shoulders are being placed the responsibilities that their offices require. They must now begin to plan and strive for a successful year’s work. This will take a great deal of energy and optimism on their part. Various obstacles will arise, tending to hinder the desired progress. All these must be met and overcome. Every man at Davidson in his heart does want things accomplished here. None of us doubt that. Yet as hard as the new officers, who are now taking up the direction and guidance of the student affairs, may strive, by themselves they can accomplish nothing. Without a hearty and willing support on the part of all, they will be handicapped from the very beginning. Whatever they do, we must remember, is done with the desire to serve and benefit us. A majority of us expressed the desire that these men should be the successors to the various student body and class offices. It is certainly no presumption on their part to expect the support of at least that majority in their efforts to carry out the work they are beginning. Only by basing their plans on such a situation can they start out with the determination to really work for our interests and for Davidson. It rests with us to see that, especially so far as we are concerned, nothing is done toward hindering and as much as possible toward helping to maintain this condition.

Open Forum

EDUCATIONAL VALUES IN R. O. T. C. TRAINING

Before setting forth what seems to me to be the specific educational values in the R. O. T. C. training, I must lay down some general principles. The value of any course of college study is to be measured in terms of its value to the individual in his relation to the complex society about him. This value may be either direct or indirect; by which I mean that the knowledge received or skill acquired is such as to enable the man either to meet his problems, or the habits he has cultivated enable him to use the principles learned in one department in meeting difficulties arising in another. In addition to this, value is determinable in terms of present or remote needs, and whether these are certain or contingent. So when I briefly discuss the values of R. O. T. C. training, I want you to understand that I refer to certain uses or contingent uses; direct or indirect values.

1. The direct value in R. O. T. C. training is obvious for that man who intends to make arms his profession. The training received in Davidson is a most valuable preparation for courses in West Point or Annapolis. But since more men seek some other value than this direct one, it is necessary to ask what are the indirect values possible. Any indirect educational value is dependent upon what scientific students of education call the transfer value of training. Can the training gotten in one study be made to aid in gaining knowledge and acquiring skill in another? While investigators are disagreed as to the amount and the method of such transfer, they are well nigh unanimous that such transfer is a fact, the amount depending either on the number of identical elements in the subjects or on the method of instruction or on both.

One of the direct results of military training in the courses offered by R. O. T. C. is that a man learns how to lead and manage men in army organization and for military purposes. Does such knowledge and skill so acquired enable a man to become a leader and manager of men in civil pursuits? Since there are many identical elements in both, our answer can be emphatically yes. I think unquestionably, that a young man who possesses native endowments for leadership, will be greatly benefited in acquiring skill in leadership and the management of men in industrial and business and political situations by the training he gets in the R. O. T. C. He learns what the motives are that instigate conduct and he learns how to use that knowledge in begetting in men that kind of action he desires.

Again, since efficient executive work depends so largely upon the ability to decide a course of action quickly, without going through the long process...of deliberation, a course of training which begets in a man the habit of quick decision carries over into almost any situation. This habit of immediate decision in the face of a problem is one of the marked values in military training and since this is what psychologists call a generalized habit, it will transfer easily and in large amount. The skill acquired in giving orders is also of general application. He learns how to formulate his orders in clear and definite and precise language, so that the one receiving the order not only may understand, but he cannot misunderstand what is demanded of him. There are also certain moral habits and principles acquired in military training which easily transfer to other fields, such as habits of neatness in person and care in the use of property of another; self-control, courage, and justice. Furthermore, the habit of assuming toward his work the attitude of service for the protection of society is another that may be made to transfer.

2. So much then for some of the possibilities. Their becoming realities depends in large measure upon the methods of instruction used. One of the cornerstones of effective learning is the principle first clearly announced by Comenius, that one learns to do by doing. It is because the pedagogical methods employed in military training embody this principle that we have ground for the belief that so much of the skill in military instruction carries over. Actual, concrete, definite problems are set for the military student to solve, not in thought alone, but equally in action. He learns by the aid of memory to furnish his mind with rules of the game—rules that in so many instances are generalized principles—and he stamps into his memory those rules and perceives the significance of them in the practical problems that he has to solve. Modern methods of teaching are emphasizing more and more the value of the so-called project method of teaching. This means, of course, that daily and constant opportunity is given the student to apply what he has learned theoretically to real conditions and problems of a concrete nature. While the phrase “mind training” is a very vague and ambiguous term with most people who use it, it can be made clear if we take the pains to study the nature and laws of learning. There is no value for the strengthening and training of the mind in mere dogged repetition. Unless repetition is attentive repetition the process fails to fix the thing repeated and it is not acquired. Again, mere fixing in the memory a mass of information contributes nothing to the ideal of mind training. Knowledge, not information, is what education seeks after; and knowledge implies not merely knowing what, but why; not merely acquaintance with a fact, but equally a perception of its significance. It is because, pre-eminently, military instruction strives after, not information, but the significance of the information and skill in applying it to concrete situations that its training leads to knowledge and the power of using that knowledge in manifold situations.

3. Is the value of military training found in its present or contingent value? So far as the direct value of it goes, we must say that it is contingent. We hope that the young men taking courses may never have any occasion to use their knowledge of warfare; but since occasion may arise when such knowledge will be of inestimable value, I think we can never say time has been wasted in acquiring the skill and knowledge. But so far as the value is indirect, then military training possesses a present value. It gives a man opportunity to learn facts and acquire habits that will be of immediate value, not only when he goes out of college, but also while he is even in college.

Doctor Frazer Hood.

EXCHANGE

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

IT ISN’T YOUR SCHOOL, IT’S YOU.

If you want to live in a kind of a school
That's the kind of a school you like,
You needn't slip your clothes in a grip
And start on a long, long hike.
You'll find elsewhere what you left behind,
For there’s nothing that’s really new;
It’s a knock at yourself when you knock the school;
It isn’t our school—it’s you.

Real schools are not made by men afraid,
Lest somebody else gets ahead.
When everyone works and no one shirks
You can raise a school from the dead,
And if you make your personal stake
Your neighbor can make one, too;
Your school will be what you want to see—
It isn’t your school—it’s you.
—Ex.

EBONY ELOQUENCE.

Two darkies in a negro regiment were boasting about their company buglers.

“G'long wit’ you, boy,” said one, “you ain’t got no booglers. We is got the boogler and when ’at boy warps his lip around that horn and blows pay-call it sounds jes’ like that um Boston symphony band playin’ ‘The Rosary.’”

“Yeh, I hearn you,” replied the other. “Talk up, boy, talk up. Yo’ is wadin’ deep into trouble.”

“An’ when he sounds ’at tattoo the angile Gabriel hisself is lendin’ a ear, boy. A ear is what I says.”

“Well, if yo’ likes musik they is all right, but if yo’ is yearnin’ fo’ food, yo’ wants a boogler with an hypnotic note like we is got. Boy, when Ah hears ole Custard Mouth Jones discharge his blast Ah looks at mah beans and Ah says, ‘Strawberries, behave yoselves; yo’ is crowdin’ the whip cream out o’ mah dish.’”—The Cadet.

FAIR OR FOWL.

The floorwalker approached the very much perturbed looking young man just inside the entrance of the department store.

“You look as tho you wish some sort of information, sir. Can I be of service to you?”

“I don’t know,” said the perspiring young man. “I was told to come in here and purchase either a camisole or a casserole, and for the life of me I can not remember which.”

“Well,” said the floorwalker patiently, “if you'll tell me what kind of chicken you propose to put in it perhaps I can help you.”—Weather Vein.

In the recent Boys’ Number of The Spectator of M. S. C. W., they make the following remarks about us:

“Women have many faults—
Men have only two:
Everything they say
And everything they do!”

They also wish to remind us:

“That legs are an appendage common to the human race and not peculiar to the ‘female of the species.’ We humbly observe that men have them too.”

Two lawyers before a probate judge recently got into a wrangle. At last one of the disputants, losing control over his emotions, exclaimed to his opponent:

“Sir, you are, I think, the biggest ass that I ever had the misfortune to set my eyes upon.”

“Order! order!” said the judge gravely. “You seem to forget that I am in the room.”—Ex.

Miss Helen Pettigrew, a pretty blue-eyed miss of twenty, wants to be governor of Kansas. She is head of the Anti-War Club. Her campaign for the governorship is being managed by a younger sister. Her platform includes opposition to all “Blue Laws.” She also believes in jazz music, beer, light wines for those who want ’em. Also, she says, that women should smoke if they wish, and dress as they please—Centre College Cento.