THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1921

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

THREE STUDENTS ADDRESS THE SUNDAY “Y” MEETING

Dr. Vander Meulen.

The “Y” services Sunday night were conducted entirely by the “home” boys, the speakers being: Pat Crawford, Jimmie Sprunt, and Mac Richards. After a song service and selection from the “Y” orchestra, Pat Crawford made a talk on “Happiness, the Result of Fellowship with Christ.” Christ is needed every minute, and one cannot hope for success and happiness without fellowship with Him. He has met us halfway and it is up to us to take Him as our pattern. To follow Christ doesn’t mean loss of friends, but quite to the contrary, for they will be the more willing to follow. Happiness and Jesus Christ go hand in hand. The Christian religion is one of happiness and not melancholy.

Jimmie Sprunt next talked on the theme “Give God a Chance.” He is always ready to open the doors of opportunity for us, if we will only let Him. We depend on God for our mental and physical welfare, why not let Him take charge of our heart? Through prayer His guidance is received. God will answer prayers in due time, so give Him only a chance. We may give Him a chance by yielding. It is not a question of how much we have, but how much God has of us. Are we working for self or for God? Give Him a chance.

Mac Richards made the concluding talk on, “Will a Man Rob God?” If we are not using the time God has given us to the best advantage, we are robbing Him. While in college we are preparing for our life work, and if we are to make our lives to be of the greatest service, then God’s time must be spent accordingly. College life is not to be used for pleasure. Sometimes we feel our unfitness for certain phases of work, but unless God has been given a chance, our possibilities are unknown. Truly God has some purpose for each of us in placing us in such enlightened surroundings. As a conclusion to his talk, Mac made a plea that everyone should seriously consider his life work this week through God’s guidance.

D.

BETTY COMPSON ENJOYED IN “THE LAW AND THE WOMAN”

Last Saturday night we were highly entertained by the picture show featuring Betty Compson in “Law and the Woman.” The scene was first laid in France and there we saw the love affair of a young man and an accomplished vampire. The scene shifted to America and there we saw the newly-weds, Mr. and Mrs. Rolfe. Mr. Rolfe was the guardian of the young man whom we first met in France. Later when the young man came to America the vamp followed him, expecting to be married to him. Mr. Rolfe told his ward that he had once been a lover of the vamp and tried to stop the two from going any further. Mr. Rolfe and his ward had a slight fight. After Mr. Rolfe left, the vamp killed her lover and put the blame on Rolfe. After all legal remedies had failed it looked as though Rolfe must go to the electric chair. Mrs. Rolfe finally decided to disguise as a vamp and see if she (Continued on page 5)

SIXTY MEN HOLD MEETING IN INTEREST LIFE-WORK

A group of about 60 men, representing a number of religious groups here on the campus, met at the gym on last Wednesday night for a feed. The delightful food disappeared before the hungry guests. After everyone’s hunger was appeased the serious part of the program was taken up.

A member of each of the fellowship groups of the four classes spoke briefly on what the work in their different groups had meant to them. Then J. P. Price and Dwight Chalmers told of the coming conference to be led by Dr. Vander Meulen. Plans were made by which this series of meetings could be made a success. Everyone was urged to do their part. At the close of the program Dr. Richards spoke a few words of encouragement and faith. A general discussion followed concerning the power of prayer.

D.

CECIL B. DEMILLE PICTURE COMING, “SATURDAY NIGHT”

Cecil B. DeMille’s big production “Saturday Night,” was finished one Wednesday night. Sounds a bit confusing, doesn’t it? But from the time Mr. DeMille announced the title of his latest Paramount picture, confusion was the order of the day around the Lasky studio, at Hollywood, California.

“What are you doing Friday night?” one actor would ask another. “I'm working on ‘Saturday Night.’” “I don’t care what you do Saturday night. I am talking about Friday night.” “And I told you in plain English that I am working Friday night on ‘Saturday Night’ and I can’t accept your invitation.” “You're working Friday night on Saturday night? Say are you crazy or am I? Now listen here; quit this nonsense and tell me: are you working on Friday night?” “I'm not crazy. I told you and I'll tell you again: I'm working Friday night on ‘Saturday Night.’” “Oh — Then come over next week.”

No matter on what night the public sees “Saturday Night” at the gym next week they will be insured of an enjoyable evening, but it is coming on Saturday night, so just remember “Saturday Night” on Saturday night. The cast includes Theodore Roberts, Leatrice Joy, Edith Roberts, Conrad Nagel, Jack Mower, Edythe Chapman, Sylvia Ashton, Julia Faye, John Davidson and others.

D.

SUNDAY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE SHOWS GREAT IMPROVEMENT

Probably owing to the fair weather Sunday, the attendance at the six mission SundaySchools decidedly increased. The following table shows the attendance and number of teachers at the various schools for March 5th.

| School         | Teachers | Attendance |
|----------------|----------|-------------|
| Cornelius      | 4        | 67          |
| Shearer        | 3        | 45          |
| Brawley        |          | 35          |
| Mill Creek     |          | 53          |
| Oak Grove      | 5        |             |
| Caldwell       |          |             |

The Mission Study Classes held March 1st showed a total attendance of 125. This is about a 25 percent attendance. Several of the classes did not meet. The topic was an interesting one: Mexico and Cuba being discussed. The classes will not be held March 8th, because of the address by Dr. Vander Meulen.

LIFE-WORK PARAGRAPHICS
What Your Choice of a Life Work Means.

A great English philosopher defined happiness as “congenial work with a sense of progression.” The right kind of work develops natural ability and encourages a man to rise to his full possibilities. It gives zest and thrill to efforts that stimulate. It arouses a man’s best faculties and quickens the steps of his daily progress.

The wrong kind of work deadens the senses and the impulses to win. It clogs the machinery of the mind as well as of the body. It slows up interest, effort, and all the other things that tend to make life enjoyable. The net result is inefficiency and discontent.

Choice of work is one of the most important decisions a man makes. Only the selection of a wife and of personal standards of conduct rank with it. What career is chosen, what is done in it, what it leads to, all are largely within the control of each individual. Each determines for himself what he will make of himself, and his choice spells either happiness and success, or disappointment and mediocrity.

Make Your Preparation Count.

Have you ever paused to reflect how much money and time you spend in getting an education to make your life count? Have you ever considered what an education from the standpoint of an investment is worth? Failure to complete the process in a business-like way, by learning how to make the most effective use of education and resources, is the saddest failure in all, because it is so unnecessary. Thousands of men have spent their most impressionable years and their money to get an education and then drifted about like boats without compass or destination.

Those who take an occupation for which they are unfitted are in the position of a man equipped for a hunting trip to India, who—when part of the way there—changes his mind and turns his course for a scientific exploration in Labrador. He discards the equipment he could use effectively in another environment. It puts unreasonable strain on his native resources and disheartens him.

It’s Worth to You.

According to the statistics of our largest life insurance companies, the average man of 21 may reasonably count on 40.79 years more to live. If he reaches the age of 61 he may count on 13.19 years more. With these years of productive effort ahead, it is of vital concern what work he undertakes and how each one meets his opportunities.

The majority of failures could be prevented. According to Bradstreet (one of the oldest and largest national organizations for determining business ratings) men fail for the following reasons:

- Incompetence, 38.2 percent.
- Lack of capital, 30.3 percent.
- Specific conditions, 11.3 percent.
- Fraud, 7.0 percent.
- Inexperience, 5.6 percent.
- Neglect, 1.7 percent.
- Failures of others, 1.7 percent.
- Unwise credits, 1.3 percent.
- Extravagance, 1.1 percent.

(Continued on page 5)

EAGLE “MIKADO”
For Sale at your Dealer
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Pencil No. 174
Made in five grades

LOUISVILLE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Scholarly Practical Progressive Spiritual
Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill. Located in the heart of the chief city of the South. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry in the Twentieth Century.
Write to JOHN M. VANDER MEULEN, D. D., LL. D., President

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

We Cater to the General College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Deveraux, Mgr.
East Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Central Hotel Cigar Stand
Selwyn Hotel Cigar Stand
Joe D. Smith, Mgr.
231 S. TRYON ST.

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life
If you have a NEW EDISON in the home
If you do not have one you are missing a lot
LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON
“The phonograph with a soul”
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It Wakes You Up
Coca-Cola In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works