4 | THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 2, 1922.

The $600,000 CAMPAIGN

For Rebuilding Chambers - has promise of success.

I consider the crisis which Davidson College is now facing one of the most serious of its long and useful career. Chambers Hall must be established, better facilities and more professors provided, or the efficiency of this old College will be seriously impaired.

Very cordially yours,

H. P. McCormick,
Executive Sec. Com. of Christian Education of Presbyterian Church in the U.S.

Count on me for any service that it is possible for me to render. I would rather see the New Chambers building erected than to see any other piece of work done in all the Church or in all the world. It is the most urgent need that I see on the whole horizon.

Very cordially yours,

President of Union Theological Seminary.

Yours in regard to Davidson College at hand today. I have visited quite a number of colleges North and South and I would rather send my only son, who is my dearest earthly trust, to that college than to any I have seen. It is a live up-to-date college but with a more earnest spirit of moral and spiritual idealism than any institution of its kind that I know anything about.

Most heartily yours,

A. V. Voorhees,
Louisville, Kentucky.

The Campaign to raise $600,000 for Davidson presents a strategic opportunity to render large service to the Presbyterian Church in the United States. Our Church has no more valuable servant and the College has earned by the contributions it has made to the whole Church every dollar for which it now asks. The policy ought to be a still greater Davidson, for the sake of our common Presbyterianism.

President of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary.

The above quotations, and the two on the front page, used by permission, have been copied from some of the literature Mr. Lockhart, the Director of the Campaign, is sending out.

Mr. Lockhart has been on the job only about a month but has built up a strong organization, has secured excellent publicity and created much interest in the campaign. Solicitation of pledges will begin middle of September.

Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., is general chairman of campaign committee, Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, director, Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer.

Mr. M. W. McGill, who graduated from Davidson last May, has been engaged to assist Mr. Jackson in his duties as treasurer.