. ; THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

“Y” WELCOMES CLASS OF ’26 TO DAVIDSON

The Y. M. C. A. of this year extended to the freshmen one of the most cordial receptions of recent years. At the meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet on the Monday night prior to the opening of school, three general committees were formed whose duty was to welcome the freshmen upon their arrival on the campus. The first of these committees met the new men at the train and, by showing them the way to the college and to their rooms, alleviated the confusion and bewilderment which they might have experienced upon arriving. The second committee met the freshmen at the Phi Hall where they were served iced tea and their name-cards given to them. This committee also gave them information concerning the location of the dormitories and administrative offices as well as the traditions and customs of the college to which they are expected to conform. At the Library, another committee was stationed to help the new men register.

At the Monday meeting of the “Y” Cabinet, each member was given a number of red and black badges reading, “Information, Ask Me.” These men each formed a committee of information with himself as chairman, of from five to ten men who cheerfully helped the new men become adjusted, and in every way to make their initiation into college life as easy and pleasant as possible.

T. SMITH AND MORRIS ARE NEW COMMISSARIANS

Hugh Smith and Henry Morris are in charge of the Davidson College Commissary this year. Their quarters have been painted and put in general good shape for this year’s work and the two men in charge are planning for one of the best years' work they can possibly offer to the student body. They say that they are there to see that the students get every trade advantage possible and they will use every means to be of real service. They handle a complete line of all athletic goods, stationery, pennants, and are ready to order anything that is wanted which may not be in stock at the time. The Commissary is run and controlled largely by students and a portion of the profits go to the benefit of the athletic association.

LIBRARY NEWS

A number of new books have been added to the Library recently. There are three books that will be of special interest to those who are thinking of taking up law, teaching, or civil engineering. The book on teaching is by Henry Parks Wright and is entitled “The Young Man and Teaching.” It treats the subject from all points and will be profitable reading for a person who is thinking of becoming a teacher. The book on law is written by Simeon E. Baldwin and is named “The Young Man and the Law.” This book is well written and covers the subject well. Those who are thinking of becoming engineers will be interested in the book, “The Young Man and Civil Engineering.” 

“My Boyhood,” an autobiography by John Burroughs, will interest those who want to know more of this great man. “My Memories of Eighty Years,” is a book by Chauncey M. Depew. He discusses interesting facts of history from the presidency.

W. Z. BRADFORD
RUMPLE

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

START RIGHT and FEED
L. A. ELLIOTT’S
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSON CAFE
Smiley’s Remodeled—
You won't know it
Well Prepared Food—
The best money can buy, and an expert cook
Well Served—
Table and counter service
Our Specialty:
Real old-time club sandwichesof Lincoln to Harding. Two new books along the fiction line have been added. “To Him That Hath,” is written by Ralph Conner. Archibald Marshall’s new book is “Big Peter.”

MARRIAGES.

At the Church of Good Shepherd of York, S. C., on Wednesday, June 14, John Floyd White, ex-’19, of Chester, was united in marriage to Miss Elizabeth Allein, second daughter of the late R. C. Allein and Mrs. Allein, the Rev. T. Tracy Walsh officiating. The young couple, upon their return from their wedding trip, will make their home at Chester.

On Tuesday evening, June 22, at half-past seven, Mr. Alfred Gordon Oltman, ex-’23, was united in marriage to Miss Mary Dandridge at the Presbyterian Church, Lincolnton, North Carolina. The bride is the daughter of Rev. and Mrs. James R. Bridges. Charlotte, Raleigh, Greensboro, and other cities of the state were represented at the wedding.

TE DRUG COMPANY.
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles

Mr. P. A. Stough

A short time ago the people in and around Cornelius were alarmed to hear of the death of Mr. P. A. Stough. Mr. Stough’s death came as a result of a long period of declining health which gradually wove itself into serious illness and resulted in his death on June 26, 1922. The deceased was for a long while secretary and treasurer of the Cornelius Cotton Mills and a prominent citizen and real estate owner of that section. Mr. Stough leaves behind him his father, R. T. Stough; his wife, who was Miss Alice Ardrey of Pineville, and three children. Mr. Stough graduated at Davidson College in the year 1896. Mr. Stough executed the affairs of the Cornelius Mill in a most efficient manner and established for it a fine record. He was universally esteemed and most highly regarded, not only by those connected with him in business, but by all those who knew him and came in contact with him. His popularity was manifested by the huge attendance at his funeral. An incessant line filed along the roads leading to his funeral from an hour and a half before the funeral up to the time when he was relegated to the dust from whence he came. He was known always as a man of high moral character, integrity, and an earnest Christian of an exemplary walk of life. The community as well as his loved ones sustains a positive and recognized loss in his passing away from the scene of his earthly activities.

A called meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held last Thursday night, and quite a large number of the old men were there to see that the new school year started right for the society. A great deal of enthusiasm arose over the proposition of getting new men into the society. After discussion, plans were made to get new men interested in the society work and what it means to them. Committees were appointed to get some of the more promising of the new men interested. It was decided to have a smoker after the regular meeting next Thursday night.

Now is the time to subscribe.

OXFORDS AND SHOES

In your suit for Fall look for Style. Then you won't have to look for anything else. The clothes that have Style are sure to be well made, because you can’t get lasting style without fine workmanship. Fabrics, too, will be right, because they are the only kind it pays to tailor so carefully. Let us show you the new things in Society Brand — always known for Style.

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
CHARLOTTE
DOBBS HATS
MANHATTAN SHIRTS