THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1922

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY DR. COLLINS TALKS ON PROSPECTS FOR MEDICINE

Doctor Collins, a successful young doctor of Charlotte, spoke at the “Y” service Sunday night, on the laymen’s viewpoint of Christian work. He came to Davidson as one of the series of lecturers under the auspices of the Civitan Club, of Charlotte. Before going into his talk he gave some startling facts and figures on subjects of vital importance to young men.

Doctor Collins spoke of the choice of a vocation, presenting it from the standpoint of a doctor. He told of the numerous false medical cults that have grown up in late years and pointed out the dangers the public is exposed to through them. The need for good doctors, he showed, was all the greater on account of these false cults. He then told of the exacting requirements that one has to meet in order to become a doctor, telling of the years of careful preparation and then the following years of practical experience before one is qualified to gamble with human life. Although there are many sacrifices that have to be made and many great services that the world never knows of must be done in the profession of medicine, Dr. Collins showed that the doctor does not go unrewarded. The doctor is not rewarded in a purely pecuniary way but his is the reward that comes from a great service well done. Doctor Collins presented his appeal from the doctor’s standpoint in a clear and forceful way and the close attention given him by the entire audience bore proof that they thoroughly enjoyed his talk.

COLLEGIATE PRESS MEET AT WAKE FOREST COLLEGE

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association assembled in fourth semi-annual convention as the guests of Wake Forest College last Friday and Saturday. The convention was opened Friday night, J. F. Hoge, of Wake Forest delivering the address of welcome. O. A. Coffin, Editor of the Raleigh Times, delivered the address of the evening, after which there was tendered a reception by the staff of the Wake Forest Student.

The second meeting of the conference was held Saturday morning, addresses being delivered by President W. L. Poteat, of Wake Forest and E. E. Folk, former editor of the Old Gold and Black, and C. S. Green, Editor of the Wake Forest Student. The remainder of the morning was devoted to reports, election of officers, and other items of business. The delegates were guests of the Athletic Council, Saturday afternoon, at the Wake Forest-N. C. State baseball game.

The crowning climax of the convention came Saturday night when the staff of Old Gold and Black became host at a brilliant banquet in the dining halls of the Wake Forest Hotel. The convention this year may be regarded as the most decided step ever taken for the advancement of the college publications of North Carolina. College journalism was given an impetus that will long remain and that will place the collegiate journals of North Carolina in the front ranks of National publications of this nature.

Officers elected to handle the executive affairs of the Association for the coming year were: Alice Lowe, Meredith College, president; Lois Rogers, Queens College, first vice-president; R. S. Pickens, Carolina, second vice-president; Bertha Moore, Meredith College, secretary; L. D. Elkins, Davidson, treasurer. The convention next year will be held at Meredith College in Raleigh. The Meredith delegates left the impression that nothing will be spared to make the next convention a repetition of the Wake Forest affair. The Davidson delegates were R. F. Davidson and L. D. Elkins.

MINISTERIAL BAND ELECTS OFFICERS FOR COMING YEAR

At the regular meeting of the Ministerial Band, Sunday afternoon two important business matters were disposed of. After the devotional exercises, which were led by T. H. Patterson, the president, Gus Summers read the new constitution, which has just been drawn up by a committee. The purpose of the Ministerial Band as stated in the constitution is “To promote brotherhood and fellowship among ministerial candidates and to help them make their lives count more for Christ.” There is also a clause in the constitution providing for the acceptance of “associate members,” comprising students who are studying for missions other than evangelistic and men who intend to do “Y” work.

An election of officers followed this very important presentation of the proposed constitution. Those elected to hold office in the Band for the coming term are as follows: W. T. Baker, president; J. Lee McLean, vice-president; A. M. Martin, secretary; and H. K. Russell, treasurer.

SPANISH CLUB ELECTS NEW OFFICERS FOR 1922-23 TERM

The Spanish Club had an extremely interesting and successful meeting last Tuesday night in Shearer Hall. The main features of the program were the debates read by Galloway and Hillhouse. These debates will be delivered before the Freshman Spanish class at a later date. The officers for the coming year were elected at this meeting and are as follows: president, W. M. Heston; vice-president, W. F. Galloway; secretary, N. R. Currie; treasurer, K. T. McCrary. These new officers, who are very capable of leading the club through another successful year, will begin their duties next September at the beginning of the fall term of college.

SENIORS ADOPT SWAGGER STICK AS LATEST FASHION

And Davidson progresses—so says everyone.If Beau Brummel himself should today stroll across the campus, he could manner in which the sons of Davidson array themselves for the Seniors, since last Saturday, have added the last touch. With a grace which is indeed pleasing they have learned, even in this short time, to manipulate their canes with such dexterity and skill that Dame Rumor now whispers that soon they will add to their accoutrements the monocle. However, such a statement has not been affirmed.

No one denies that this event probably marks a new era in Davidson’s forward stride. She has always stood for the very best and this latest step will perhaps mean that in the near future Davidson will need no one to announce to her the latest things in haberdashery.

Dr. Thos W. Lingle went north last week to a meeting of the Modern Language Association. Doctor Lingle was elected president of the Modern Language Association of the State a few days ago at its session in Greensboro. While in New York he will go to Smith College to visit his daughter, Miss Sarah, who is a Junior there this year.

Mrs. Hamilton delightfully entertained the Book Lovers’ Club last Friday evening.

Doctor and Mrs. Arbuckle returned to Davidson Saturday, after spending a week in New York City, attending the convention of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity, which was held at the Pennsylvania Hotel. Dr. Arbuckle presided at the convention and at its close he was unanimously re-elected to the office of Grand Councilor. While in New York Doctor Arbuckle said he met about twenty old Davidson men who were staying at the Pennsylvania attending other conventions which were being held at the same time. Plans were made for a banquet by these 20, but it was found that it was impossible to have it. Doctor Arbuckle reports a most enjoyable trip and is loud in his praises of the ingenious time and labor-saving devices which are in use there.

Mr. and Mrs. Herrick and children, of Lancaster, S. C., are visiting Mrs. Herrick’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Crawford.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
CHARLOTTE

REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly
VapoRub

COLLEGE JEWELRY
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS
We guarantee title, principal and interest.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Delicious and Refreshing

Dr. Thos W. Lingle went north last week to a meeting of the Modern Language Association. Doctor Lingle was elected president of the Modern Language Association of the State a few days ago at its session in Greensboro. While in New York he will go to Smith College to visit his daughter, Miss Sarah, who is a Junior there this year.

Mrs. Hamilton delightfully entertained the Book Lovers’ Club last Friday evening.

Fall term opens September 20, 1922. Necessary expenses about $150. Scholarships awarded to worthy students. Send for latest catalogue.

We send records on approval.
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Columbia Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of the students from our controlling Synods attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's finest men have finished their studies at this School of the Prophets. Columbia Seminary invites candidates for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere. Harmony and good-will permeate the entire Seminary organization. The members of the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida are active and interested. We have a complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working, high-type student body.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, and Victor Records
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL. D., President

Oldest Theological Seminary in the Southern states. Young as the youngest in its progressive methods. A Theological Seminary that makes preachers. 42% of present student body from Davidson College. Scholarly, Practical, Spiritual, Progressive. Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill. Located in the heart of the chief city of the South. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry in the Twentieth Century. Write to
JOHN M. VANDER MULEN, D. D., LL. D., President

Wednesday, May 3—9:30 p. m., Bible Classes
Tuesday, May 2—8:30 p. m., Bible Class Leaders.
Sunday, April 30—10:00 a. m., Volunteer Band. 11:00 a. m., Church. 1:00 p. m., C. E. Training Class. 1:45 p. m., Ministerial Band. 6:15 p. m., “Y” Service.
Saturday, April 29—Field Day. 7:18 p.m. Movies: “The Green Temptation.”
Friday, April 28—Carolina vs. Davidson, at Winston-Salem.
Davidson, at Clemson, 6:45 p. m., Phi Society. 7:15 p. m., Eu Society. 9:00 p. m., Metrophilian Society. 9:00 p. m., Pandeinic Society.