THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

Religious Activities

ANNEX FOR CHURCH IS UNDER CONSTRUCTION

The old men of Davidson coming back this year have found among the other improvements made during the summer that
an addition is being made to the church. All of them will remember the crowded condition at church services last
year, and the need for it even then. With the assurance of a larger student body for '22-’23, a committee
was appointed to decide on a remedy. They were divided at first, some preferring a balcony to an annex. However,
the annex was finally agreed upon, since the structure of the church is not such that a balcony could be
easily installed. Work was begun in time to have had it finished by the time school opened this fall, but
the strike interfered with the shipments of material. Work is progressing slowly, and it will take some time to finish
it.

Y. M. C. A. ISSUES HANDBOOK OF INFORMATION

The Davidson College handbook was received by the old and new men on their arrival. The handbook this year has
an attractive red cover with a black D upon it. All information necessary for the well-being of the new men
is contained in this little handbook. The constitution printed therein can be easily referred to and it is mainly for
the Freshmen, that they may early become acquainted with the laws of old Davidson. The different college organizations are given
ample space for rosters. Many changes recently made in college activities, necessary for every student to know, are here printed.
There are plenty of handbooks and every student should now be in possession of one of them. Arnett Gamble is
responsible for the successful appearance of the handbook. He was chosen by the College Y. M. C. A. to edit
the manual, this being done during the summer months.

FOUR MISSION SUNDAY SCHOOL LEADERS NAMED

Again the students of Davidson have taken up the work of conducting Sunday Schools at the different points nearby. At
the present time, all Superintendents and Teachers have not been named. A partial list follows:
William T. Baker—Mill.
M. P. Calhoun—Oak Grove.
H. Morris—Brawley’s.
W. P. Brown—Cornelius.
All persons desiring to help in this work, especially with the music, are requested to notify Pat Crawford, Buck Currie,
or Harry Russel.

MINISTERIAL BAND PLAN A GET-TOGETHER FEED

Bill Baker welcomed all the old and new men and set forth the ideals of the Ministerial Band for the
year in the first meeting of the band, Sunday, at 1:45 p.m., in Shearer Hall. To promote fellowship among the
members of the band, Bill got a movement started to learn each other’s first names, and announced a feed for
Saturday night. He stressed prayer as the foundation of the success of the band, and announced that a mid-week prayer
meeting, lasting for thirty minutes, would be started, the prayers of which are to be centered upon those in college
who have not decided upon a life work, and upon the country in general, that more men go into the
ministry. Baker also mentioned visiting the sick in the infirmary, and making friends with the new men on the campus
as a few of the activities of the band for this year. The meeting closed with a signing of the
pledge cards by the old men and many new ones also.

MAC RICHARDS SPEAKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND

The first meeting of the Student Volunteer Band was held at 9 o’clock Sunday morning instead of at the regular
hour of ten o'clock, due to the seating arrangement that had to be made at the church. Consequently, the attendance
was small. However, the meeting was a good one. L. P. Burney led the meeting, and after a few matters
of business were dispensed with by the president, Mac Richards, a member of the class of ’22, spoke on the
responsibility and opportunities of the Band. Mac brought out the need of Freshmen for the right kind of friends, stating
that a student's ideals are formed largely during his freshman year, and therefore the volunteers should do special work among
the Freshmen. Burney then talked a few minutes on the various tasks that lie ahead for this year and how
best to accomplish them.

Pride is a wonderful quality when it aids us to conceal our hurts and prevents us from hurting others.—Selected.

Which Type of Research is of Greatest Value?

A stove burns too much coal. A man familiar with the principles of combustion and heat radiation makes experiments which
indicate desirable changes in design. That is research.

You want to make a ruby in a factory, a real ruby, indistinguishable by any test from the natural stone.
You begin by analyzing rubies chemically and physically. Then you make rubies just as nature did. Your rubies are the
result of research—another type of research.

While melting up your chemicals and experimenting with high temperatures, you begin to wonder how hot the earth must have
been millions of years ago, and what were the forces at play that made this planet what it is. Your
investigation leads you far from rubies and causes you to formulate theories to explain how the earth, how the whole
solar system was created. That would be research of a still different type.

Research of all three types is conducted in the laboratories of the General Electric Company. But it is the third
type—pioneering into the unknown—that means most in the long run, even though undertaken with no practical benefit in view. For
example, the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company are exploring matter with X-rays in order to discover not only
how the atoms in different substances are arranged but how the atoms themselves are built up. The more you know
about a substance, the more you can do with it. This work may enable scientists to answer more definitely the
question: Why is iron magnetic? Then the electrical industry will take a greater step forward than can be made in
a century of experimenting with existing electrical apparatus. You can add wings and stories to an old house. But to
build a new house, you must begin with the foundation.

General Electric

GRID GROWLS

With the falling of the leaves—the College student inevitably turns his mind football-ward. This year Old Davidson has the greatest
enrollment of students in her history. Out of the multitude, more than a hundred have answered to the call of
the “pig skin” and are now working faithfully under a hot September sun to get in shape for the football
season which opens with Elon here on Saturday. Of course, the varsity eleven gets the first consideration and by the
way, there is a merry fight on for most of the eleven first positions. Coach Grey has indeed a wealth
of material this year and no doubt the Wildcat Clan will be greater this year than for many years past.
But what about these other four score and ten men who work so hard, and are not favored by being
chosen for a position on the varsity? These men are the losers, in most every instance, but not so this
year. The scrubs’ work shall not be in vain. A schedule has been arranged which ought to satisfy any Wildkitten’s
desire. Besides having the usual games with the freshmen teams of N. C. State and the University, several other good
trips, ranging...All the way from Wilmington to Columbia, S.C., have been arranged. Games with strong high school elevens of the
state are also pending. Coach Grey was not able to put out a freshman team this year, but the scrub
teams will no doubt be adorned with many first-year men. The schedule as arranged by Manager Hugh Smith is as
follows: University of S.C. at Columbia, S.C. N.C. State at Pinehurst, N.C. University of N.C. at Pinehurst, N.C. Clemson College
at Clemson, S.C. Wilmington Light Infantry at Wilmington, N.C.

YOUNG PEOPLE'S CONFERENCE (Continued from Page 1)

Young ladies and the lady teachers and councillors. The gentlemen speakers and councilors and the young men in attendance occupied
the Barracks and the large room at the Gym. Including the Davidson students, there were eighty-four young men in attendance,
twice as many as had been expected. There were a hundred and fifty-nine young ladies present. Besides these, there were
some thirty-five or forty faculty members, councillors, and visitors present. Miss Shumaker’s table accommodations were taxed but everyone was taken
care of after several extensions of the accommodations. Groupings by Presbyteries were arranged for the meal times and many songs,
yells, and jokes enlivened these occasions. The class work was handled in six groups: Two Bible classes, under Dr. J.
M. Wells of Columbia Seminary and Mrs. S. H. Askew of Decatur, Ga.; a class on Stewardship, under Rev. Daniel
Iverson of Charlotte; one on Home Missions, under Miss Eleanor Berry of Atlanta; one on Foreign Missions, under Miss Matthews
of Korea; and one on Sunday School work, under Miss Virginia Nourse of the Assembly’s Training School at Richmond. These
were all exceedingly well conducted and interesting. Dr. Samuel Glasgow of Knoxville conducted the vespers each evening on the campus
and delivered stirring messages at these and the Sunday evening service. The evening services during the week were addressed, among
others, by Dr. Walter Lingle, Dr. Henry Sweets, and Rev. W. B. Guerrant of Heidelberg, Kentucky. Mr. Frank Wilson, Christian
Endeavor field secretary, spoke one morning and conducted a general conference on Christian Endeavor methods. Edwin (Bishop) McClure of the
Davidson Class of 1920, as president of the State Conference, conducted the daily conference hours. Toward the close of the
week of meetings, Wilson (Coach) Moore, of the Class of 1922, was elected the new president of the state organization.
The consensus of opinion was that the Davidson Conference was the best of those that had been held, and it
was decided to hold the Conference at Davidson again next summer.

The Freshmen (Producing a complete rotation grave of J. Greenleaf Whittier.)

Blessings on thee little chap
With your cunning little cap,
Freshman green, with aching heart
Had to from thy mother part,
Sadly trudging on to class;
Chased by Sophomores off the grass—
You are better off than they—
You haven't learned their blatant way!

BUCK CURRIE SPEAKS (Continued from Page 1)

"Important lessons which we as college men may learn from a consideration of this book," said Buck. "Mordecai’s question, ‘And
who knowest whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this,’ challenges the manhood of every
man.” After giving a brief resume of the first four chapters of Esther, the speaker showed wherein the temptations which
came to Esther are similar to ours today. The first of Esther’s temptations was that of slothfulness. About fifty percent
of the unsolved problems of college life are due to slothfulness. Second was the temptation of selfishness. Many sins leap
from the germ, selfishness. Too many men are looking out for themselves only. The man who really succeeds is the
one who looks out for others. Third is the temptation of doing the easiest thing—that of following the course of
least resistance. Following the line of least resistance makes crooked rivers and crooked men. The entire talk was pervaded by
a spirit of directness and earnestness which was felt by all in the audience. The attendance was unusually good. Ted
Jones led the singing in an excellent style. He also sang a solo. The service was presided over by Pat
Crawford, president of the Y.M.C.A. Each student was requested to sign a slip stating what Y.M.C.A. activities he wishes to
engage in during this year.

SPECIAL COURSES OFFERED (Continued from Page 1)

There were about twenty enrolled for the summer courses. The Synod of North Carolina out of pity for these poor
lonesome lads held a Young People’s Conference here to keep them from being too homesick. The Conference furnished entertainment for
one week and helped Mr. Cranford’s business for several more. In about four weeks Professor L. M. Currie and his
fast-working cohorts finished up their course and left. About this time the Physics class dwindled from three members to one,
and Sophomore French started with three hopeful would-be linguists. The departure of the Mathematics class cut the student body down
to a baker's dozen but two guitars, two banjos, a mandolin, and a mouth organ kept up sufficient entertainment. In
addition to the daily and nightly concerts, there were expeditions to Mooresville and Charlotte. Some even ventured as far as
Shelby and Hendersonville. A search for cats and rabbits helped the “bug class” to while away the time. Taken all
in all it was a pleasant six weeks although it was far from the “six weeks house party without chaperones,”
that the name summer school suggests.

My Roomie

It has been my misfortune to have been endowed with a peculiarly contrary roommate. He professes a great liking for
my cigarettes and consequently helps himself whenever he feels so inclined. He is also lately conscienceless when it comes to
borrowing my stationery. He has the peculiarly irritating habit of contradicting every statement that I make. He has a way
of borrowing large sums at regular intervals, but for all of that I also lately couldn't do without him. He
wears the same size shirt that I do.

Boy’s Composition on Girls

Girls are the only folks that have their own way every time. Girls are of several thousand kinds, and sometimes
one girl can be like several thousand other girls if she wants to do anything. Girls are alike one way,
and they are all like cats. If you rub ‘em the right way of the hair they’ll purr and look
sweet at you, but if you rub ‘em the wrong way or step on their tails they'll claw you. So
long as you let a girl have her own way she’s nice and sweet, but just cross her and she'll
spit at you worse than a cat. Girls are also like mules. If a girl doesn't want to believe anything
you can’t make her. If she knows it’s so she won't say so. Brother George says he doesn't like big
girls but he does like little ones, and when I saw him kissing Jennie Jones last Sunday, and told him
of what he’d said, he said he was biting her ‘cause he didn’t like her. I think he hurt her,
for she hollered and ran, and there was a big red spot all over both of her two cheeks. This
is all I know about girls, and father says the less I know about them the better off I am.
