THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

DR. W. S. CURRELL STRONG FRIEND OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE.

Dr. William Spencer Currell, now president of the University of South Carolina, is a true friend of Davidson. Doctor Currell
spent nine years of his life at Davidson. These years were spent, not in trying to pass Greek and Bible
and to skin through on math, as some might be led to think at first glance, but as a professor
of English. It is because of his service to Davidson that these columns are proud to place him among the
noted men of today who have spent parts of their lives at Davidson.

Doctor Currell began his life in the world in the city of Charleston, S. C., on the thirteenth day of
May, 1858. He was educated at Washington and Lee University, receiving the degrees of bachelor of arts and bachelor of
pedagogy in 1878 at the age of twenty. He returned to Washington and Lee the following year and made his
A.M. degree in 1879. The other degrees held by him are: Ph.D., from Washington and Lee, 1882; L.L.D., University of
Alabama and Davidson College, 1914, and from the University of Florida, 1916.

Doctor Currell has spent an entire lifetime devoted to education and the pursuit of learning. He began his long career
as an educator and teacher immediately following his graduation, going to Hampden-Sidney College in 1882 to become professor of English.
He remained at Hampden-Sidney four years and then came to Davidson for nine years of hard labor as an English
professor. From Davidson he went to Washington and Lee in 1895, serving first as professor of English and modern languages,
and then as head of the department of English. His work attracted wide attention and he was elected president of
the University of South Carolina in 1914, after having served at Washington and Lee for 19 years. Doctor Currell has
requested that he be allowed to retire from the presidency of the University of South Carolina on May 13, 1923,
his 65th birthday.

MARRIAGES.

On Wednesday, December 24, 1921, at 4:30 o'clock at the First Presbyterian Church of York, S. C., Miss Margaret Mason
Bratton and Robert H. Moore, ex-'16, were married in the presence of many friends. The church was artistically decorated with
ferns, evergreens and white roses. On the altar and around the choir rail were glowing candles.

Before the ceremony Miss Esther Ashe, accompanied by Mrs. W. F. Marshall at the organ, sang “O Believe Me, if
all Those Endearing Young Charms,” and “Because.” Mrs. Marshall played the wedding march from Lohengrin for the bridal party to
enter the church and Mendelssohn’s wedding march as they went out.

The ushers, G. C. McAlvey, Erwin Moore, Palmer Moore, and W. G. Sandifer entered first. Then came the two bridesmaids,
Miss Virginia Bratton and Miss Janet Moore, followed by the maid of honor, Miss George Bratton. The ring bearer, Rufus
Bratton, came next, carrying the ring on a silver tray. Little Martha Bratton came in just before the bride, scattering
rose petals in her path. The bride entered with her uncle, Moultrie Bratton, meeting the bridegroom and his best man,
William Moore, at the altar. The ceremony was performed by the Rev. Mr. McMurray, of Fayetteville, N. C., who for
a number of years was the bride’s pastor. He was assisted by Doctor Gillespie, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church.
During the ceremony Shubert’s serenade was played very softly.

After the wedding Mr. and Mrs. Moore left for a bridal trip. Mrs. Moore is the daughter of Mrs. Mason
Bratton. She is a graduate of Winthrop College. Mr. Moore is a successful young business man of York. Both young
people have a host of friends throughout the Carolinas.

YOUNG BANKERS.

Many Davidson men have taken up the banking business as a profession. Some of the younger of these are: P.
P. Brown, 1903, Assistant Cashier of the American National Bank of Asheville, N. C.; E. Rowland, 1915, Assistant in the
Bank of Sumter, S. C.; H. James, 1906, in the Bank of Laurinburg, S. C.; W. T. Bailey, 1906, in
the bank of Greenwood, S. C.; S. F. Ervin, 1912, in the Savannah Bank and Trust Co., of Savannah, Ga.;
R. M. Jackson, 1912, in the City National Bank of Gastonia, N. C.; S. D. Brice, 1921, Assistant Cashier of
the Marion Junction State Bank of Marion Junction, Ala.; H. B. Elliott, 1918, Assistant Cashier of the Bank of Davidson,
N. C.; and L. H. Smith, 1912, President of Easley (S. C.) Loan and Trust Co.

HERE AND THERE.

Rev. John Hay, 1910, of Brevard, N. C., has been called to Lowryville, S. C.

Rev. T. G. Tate, 1910, of Badin, N. C., has received a call to the Olney Church, of Gastonia, N.
C.

Rev. D. M. McIver, 1888, of the Druid Hill Presbyterian Church, of Atlanta, Ga., has accepted a call to the
First Presbyterian Church, of Bishopville, S. C.

C. P. Carrothers, ex-’24, spent a few days this week in Davidson. He was on his way to Washington on
business for his brother.

Rev. John McEachern, 1907, of theKorea mission filled the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of Columbia, S.C. recently. Rev.
D. M. McGeachy, 1917, has removed from Clayton to Whiteville, N.C. C. V. Garth, 1918, had the misfortune of having
his home burned during the recent cold wave. The home, in Hickory, N.C., was completely destroyed and his wife and
babies had to be taken out through a window. The Rose Hill Presbyterian Church of Columbus, Ga., recently ordained and
installed new officers. Rev. T. K. Currie, 1905, the pastor, administered the vows. Two members of the session are Davidson
men, Mr. W. C. Pease, 1877, and Dr. H. S. Monroe, 1899. Mr. Pease is also the teacher of the
men’s Bible class. The Y.M.C.A. of Charlotte has secured Dr. Thornton Whaling, 1877, of Louisville Theological Seminary, to deliver a
course of 12 lectures beginning February 5th and closing February 12th. The general subject of the lectures is to be
The Teaching of Jesus. Eris Cassell, 1921, lost his father in the middle of January. Rev. Marion S. Huske, 1911,
on Sunday, January 15, 1922, was installed pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Reidsville, N.C. Rev. R. M. Williams,
1896, of Greensboro, N.C., preached the sermon and delivered the charge to the pastor. The pastor who was succeeded, Rev.
D. I. Craig, D.D., 1878, had been pastor of the church for 43 years. Dr. W. W. Moore, 1878, delivered
an address at the centennial of the First Presbyterian Church of New Bern, N.C., which was held recently. In connection
with the exercises, a historical paper was read by C. S. Hollister, Jr., ex-1920. At the reception, a speech was
made by Rev. L. C. Vass, 1894.

COL. F. H. FRIES SPEAKS IN CHARLOTTE.
Col. F. H. Fries, 1874, of Winston-Salem, one of the state’s leading bankers, spoke briefly to the meeting for men
at the Y.M.C.A. in Charlotte, on January 15, 1922. His subject was, “Can a Man Christianize His Dollars?” He was
invited upon the suggestion of nine bank presidents of Charlotte, most of whom were in the large audience. The speech
was short on account of a cold which the speaker had suffered. Colonel Fries answered the subject in the affirmative,
saying that men were stewards and advocating the system of tithing.

JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY OFFERS 40 SCHOLARSHIPS
Graduate Scholarships Open to Candidates from the Southern and Southwestern States.
Thirty scholarships known as “Hopkins Scholarships” were established at the opening of the Johns Hopkins University, in accordance with the
will of the founder, for the benefit of residents of Maryland, Virginia, and North Carolina, and the trustees have instituted
ten similar scholarships for students from other States in the South and Southwest. These scholarships are bestowed for merit and
entitle the holders to free tuition in this university for one year, but do not carry exemption from laboratory fees;
they are offered to both men and women qualified to pursue graduate courses. They will be awarded by the Academic
Council in March. Students can be recognized as candidates only when legal residents of the States from which they desire
to be appointed. Applications, in accordance with a prescribed form, must be addressed to President Goodnow, The Johns Hopkins University,
Baltimore, Md., before March 1st. Present incumbents are eligible for reappointment, but must make formal application. Persons interested are invited
to write for forms of application, or for further information, to the Registrar of the University.

Miss Gladys H. Smith, of Easley, S.C., and Miss Virginia Lancaster, of Columbia, S.C., spent Tuesday afternoon on the hill
as guests of Miss Smith’s brothers, Hugh and Ralph.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS
CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES
“an’ everything”

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.

Peppermint flavored chewing gum with Peppermint Sugar Coating. Sugar jacket “melts in your mouth,” leaving the deliciously flavored gum center
to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

It took YEARS—YEARS to develop CAMEL QUALITY
We worked on Camels for years before we put them on the market. Years of testing—blending—experimenting with the world’s choicest
tobaccos. And now, EVERY DAY, all our skill, manufacturing experience and lifelong knowledge of fine tobaccos are concentrated on making
Camel the best cigarette that can be produced. There’s nothing else like Camel QUALITY. And there’s nothing else like Camels'
wonderful smoothness, fine tobacco flavor and FREEDOM FROM CIGARETTY AFTERTASTE. That’s why Camel popularity is growing faster than ever. A
better cigarette cannot be made. We put the utmost quality into THIS ONE BRAND.
