The Stage Is Set - Let’s Go FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. X. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 2, 1922. No. 1.

Salutation

I am glad to extend a hearty welcome to the college, to old and new students alike. The college exists for your best interests. The faculty and the administration jointly place themselves and all the resources of the college at your disposal for the training the college was founded to give. I hope you will find us helpful, sympathetic, easy of approach. The president, as well as every teacher and officer, counts it a pleasure to counsel with any student over any problem of interest to the individual. It will, I am sure, be your own fault, as I am sure it will be a mutual loss, if you do not freely take advantage of the opportunity to go over your problems with your older friends. I have faith to believe that the college is manned by men of such character that they will gladly discuss with you any matters of a personal, spiritual or religious nature as well as matters of material interest. Ours is a Christian College and designed to give a Christian training to yield a Christian service in whatever vocation the student may choose to cast his life. May you each one all through the year increase in wisdom and stature and in the Grace of God. If you are faithful in duty such advance will be assured.

WM. J. MARTIN, President.

ABSENCE REGULATIONS

It is important that every student note the Dean’s office hours as posted on his office door. The office will be open at the appointed hours each day. No excuses for absences will be given outside of the office except in cases of urgent necessity. New men will please note there are two officers excusing from college exercises, the College Physician when the student is sick and the Dean when permission to be away from town is desired. All students are expected to read the Absence Regulations. If you fail to get a copy call for it at the Registrar’s or Dean’s office.

TRAIN SCHEDULE

Leave Charlotte: Arrive Davidson:
No. 40, 5:20 a.m. 6:12 a.m.
No. 16, 8:20 a.m. 9:18 a.m.
No. 14, 11:30 a.m. 12:23 p.m.
No. 12, 5:00 p.m. 5:53 p.m.

Leaves Statesville: Arrive Davidson:
No. 41, 5:20 a.m. 6:57 a.m.
No. 15, 9:40 p.m. 8:05 p.m.

Lv. Barber Junction: Ar. Davidson:
No. 9, 11:00 a.m. 12:50 p.m.
No. 13, 2:25 p.m. 4:05 p.m.

Here She Is, Boys! West Dormitory

FIRST STEPS FOR FRESHMEN

When you get off the train at Davidson a representative of the “Y” Reception Committee will speak to you and show you the way up. First, you go to the Treasurer’s office where you pay your fees and deposit 25 cents for your room key. Then to the Registrar’s office you go where you fill out certain blanks and get assigned to classes. You are then shown up to your room, and after that you are at home. Anyone will direct you to the different classrooms. Don’t be afraid to ask reasonable questions and practice the habit from the first of speaking to everyone you meet. The upperclassmen have a beautiful custom of “tipping their hats” to the Professors. Elsewhere you will find a list of boarding houses with prices and managers, as complete as could be obtained. On the bulletin board will be notices also. You will have no difficulty in arranging for your board after you arrive. There will be a student manager for each boarding house. Don’t fail to get into some sort of exercise beginning the first day. This is admittedly the best prevention of that disease that will get a fellow now and then—homesickness. Don’t live by yourself. Don’t go to walk alone; there are a dozen men in your class that would like to go with you. Be sociable but not “fresh.” Aspire to make fast friends, but do not try to make them fast or you will surely fail. If the college is not managed just as you think it should be remember that there may be certain viewpoints that you have not become acquainted with during your short stay. Nothing gains the confidence, respect and good will of strangers quicker than a happy disposition and kind expressions.

Faculty Doings

After spending the first part of the summer in Davidson, President Martin and his family moved to their summer cottage at Montreat. Dr. Martin has divided his time between Davidson and Montreat, duties in connection with the building program as well as other college affairs having made it necessary for him to spend considerable time at Davidson. June is vacation month for the Dean, Dr. M. E. Sentelle. This was spent with home folks in East Tennessee; the remainder of the summer he has been busy putting his official O.K. on the large list of Freshman certificates. Prof. A. Currie was employed for part of the summer doing special work in the Trust Department of the American Trust Company, of Charlotte. Mr. A. L. Currie, the Y. M. C. A. Secretary is a good all-round fellow and knows college life from A to izzard (whatever that means). Learn to know him quickly. If you don’t like him there is something wrong with you. Mrs. Currie, Misses Letitia and Lucy Martin Currie had a cottage at Montreat. Prof. Currie is just now “nursing his throat” after having had his tonsils removed some days ago. Cleaning off the new Athletic Field, serving as chairman of the Church Building Committee, teaching for part of the summer, has kept Dr. J. M. Douglas occupied. Not too closely, however, for a visit with his family to Blowing Rock, and a more extended stay at Montreat. Prof. J. L. Douglas has made Davidson headquarters but has broken the monotony of Davidson life by numerous trips including Chester, S. C., Blowing Rock and Montreat.Not much has been heard from Dr. Arbuckle since his big order for chemicals came in and he had the assurance that this had been placed. He and his family are at Lewisburg, W. Va., at their summer home, and advanced rumors are that he will be here on time and full of his usual “pep” for another good year. Professor and Mrs. Erwin’s vacation was spent touring Western North Carolina in their new car. The press reporter heard of their being at Hendersonville, Camp Sapphire, Brevard, and Morganton. Professor Fleagle spent part of his vacation at hard work, continuing the studies in which he is most interested, at the University of Michigan. Mrs. Fleagle and the children joined him for a vacation at St. Johns, Michigan. Dr. and Mrs. Grey motored to Hendersonville for a few weeks’ stay. They are back home now getting their house in order, after some improvements and repairs on the same, ready for the opening of college. Dr. Hood taught again at the State College in Raleigh, and has also written a book this summer on “Salesmanship” for a Life Insurance Company. He has built (not supervised) a combination study and work-room situated on Delburg Avenue. Mrs. Hood’s vacation has been spent between Banner Elk and Montreat, together with camping trips out from these home bases. Miss Kalista Hood is spending the summer in California. Mrs. Lingle, Miss Sarah, and Eustace have been most of the summer at Spring Lake Beach, N. J. After teaching at the University of Virginia Summer School, Dr. Lingle joined the family for an automobile trip through the New England States, taking a dip into Canada. Dr. J. M. McConnell, Joe, and John have been at Camp Sapphire. Mrs. McConnell is at Charlottesville, Va. Dr. McConnell and the boys joined her a few days ago for an automobile trip through Virginia and Maryland. Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell, together with Courtney and Riggs McConnell, have been spending the summer in Europe. Dr. MacConnell has taken time to write a series of very interesting articles, which many of you have doubtless read. Professor Porter and his daughter, Miss Katherine, have spent the summer in Davidson. Dr. Porter has been getting his laboratory supplies and new equipment placed and ready for the new year. Mrs. Porter has been in Vermont this summer. Dr. Shewmake has taught again at the University of Virginia. Mrs. Shewmake (Continued on page 2).

Terms of New Professors

The old students will find three new faces among the faculty when they return. Mr. Pettengill received a call from the North and left us after a year of service. We found him a cultured gentleman, well equipped for his work. We regret to lose both him and Mrs. Pettengill, and their two boys. In German, we are fortunate to have one of Davidson’s honor graduates of the class of 1910, Rev. Kenneth J. Foreman, B.A., of Davidson, M.A., of Princeton University, B.S.T., and ties lass Princeton Seminary. During the last year, he was engaged in post-graduate studies as a Fellow of the Seminary. Mr. Foreman expects ultimately to go into the foreign missionary service. He comes back to us well equipped both by extensive study and by experience as a teacher. He will, in addition to the German, teach two sections of Sophomore Bible, which will now be taught in four sections. This work in the Bible will be in the New Testament. In Spanish, we will have as assistant Professor to work with Professor Fleagle, Mr. Augustin V. Goldiere, B.A. of Dartmouth College, and post-graduate for two years in Yale. He comes to us highly recommended and will prove a great help in a hitherto overcrowded department. For Public Speaking and Debate, and to assist in Freshman English, we have secured Mr. Russell H. Wagner, B.A., of Monmouth College, Ill., and post-graduate student in Cornell University. Mr. Wagner has had considerable teaching experience including the last three years in Adrian College, Michigan, as a teacher of Public Speaking, Debate, and English. The authorities of both Monmouth and Adrian Colleges speak in the highest terms of Mr. Wagner. He will have two sections of Freshman English, will have each of the six sections of Freshman English for one hour each week in Public Speaking, largely a laboratory course. Mr. Wagner will also offer to Juniors and Seniors an elective three-hour course in Public Speaking and Debate. Students who really desire this course will be allowed to adjust the courses as already selected to make its inclusion possible. It is desired to limit the numbers admitted to this course to 25 or 30. Mr. Wagner will have charge of the training of all men who represent Davidson College on the platform either as orators or debaters, whether speaking at Davidson or away from the college. He will be deeply interested in the work of the Literary Societies and will be glad to help in any way by counsel or service to secure a greater success in their work. (Continued on page 3).

COPYRIGHT, UNDERWOOD & UNDERWOOD, N. Y.

"I heard of the burning of the Chambers building with deepest distress, and I hope with all my heart that funds can be raised to rebuild it."

Davidson’s splendid record, present usefulness, and prospective importance justify the appeal which is being made for the rebuilding of her historic building recently burned, and for the enlarging of her facilities. The appeal will not be in vain. Very truly yours,