THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1922

The REMINGTON PORTABLE
Is the typewriter for the college men. A demonstration will convince you. Easy terms—free trial.
W. J. Cooper
WATTS College Representative

D. C. FRESH TO PLAY U. OF S. C. FRESH
The prospect that the Davidson Freshman football team will have a good scrap with the University of S. C. Fresh
is almost certain as is seen from reports received from the games the University Fresh have played. The score was
6 to 0 in the game with P. C. and in the game with the Clemson Fresh it was 7
to 3 in favor of the U. of S.C. Two men who seemed to star for the U. of S.
C. were Klugh, halfback, who drop-kicked from the 40-yard line and Boatwright, who ran 30 yards for a touchdown. These
are the facts in the case but the Wildcat Fresh team is just as good as the South Carolinians and
are confident they can bring home the bacon.

We are ready for Winter.
Ready with a brilliant variety of all-wool gabardine and heavy weight overcoats.
Ready with styles that will receive the enthusiastic approval of men who know “what’s what.”
Our shirts, ties, sox, hats, and caps are beyond compare.
Crowell Clothing Company

EVERY WEDNESDAY at THE COMMISSARY
W. Z. BRADFORD
RUMPLE START RIGHT FEED.
L. A. ELLIOTT’S
DAVIDSON, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and a no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and
substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Mack—And I say old top have you heard the latest method of catching a girl?
Bill—No.
Mack—Sprinkle a little chloride on the parlor suite.
Bill—Wait a week—go slow.
Mack—Yes, but what I am interested in now is connecting up with a real snappy top-coat.
Bill—I presume that you have in mind some real snappy covering.
Mack—Well I rather guess so.
Bill—What for instance?
Mack—Seems like I crave one of those new feather-weights in a snappy light tan. A letter from Jack (in the
graduate school at Yale) said that they're quite the thing around old Eli and I guess what'll pass muster up
there will make the grade here, eh?
Bill—You said it old top, but where will you get such South of the Mason and Dixon line?
Mack—Johnnie was down to the City yesterday evening and he said that Mellon had a nifty line, just in; Hart,
Schaffner and Marx, Hickey-Freeman and Cooper’s—think that I ought to find one in that lot.
Bill—Well when we go down I'll make Mellon’s with you but none of your fancy stuff for me. Remember his
ad in last week’s Davidsonian, featured real old heavy-weights in conservative colors. One of those kind that you can wrap
up in and let the rest of the world go by.
Mack—Together we'll go. (—adv).

(To be continued next week.)

Now is the time to subscribe.

What She Saw at the V. P. I. Game
1—A big crowd.
2—Some very attractive men.
3—Absolutely no good looking women.
4—The man on the end seat two rows ahead.
5—One very good looking chap.
6—One sport costume just like the one she almost wore herself.
7—The nice looking chap in the brown coat on the end seat two rows ahead.
8—Two boys from home.
9—Somebody running down the field with a football.
10—Two rows forward on the end seat—The awfully handsome, dark complexioned man with attractive smile who kept looking around so
often.

Versions of the game, given in interviews by prominent members of the community:
1—Parlor Aviator—"More good looking girls than I have ever seen in a long time."
2—Fair Young Thing—"And there was the best looking man who started the game, and he was so big and strong,
that out of fairness to V. P. I. the coach took him out before the end of the first quarter.”
3—Some of the bull throwers and Spanish athletes—"In the second quarter when he made that 100-yard pass, etc.”
4—Small Boy—"One man had his leg broken, another his nose, another his, etc.”
5—Coach—"Why didn’t you down that man?” (Repeat 11 times).
6—Fresh on the grandstand—"Grey stockings predominate this season.”

“Mr. Parrish, have you read ‘Far from the Maddening Throng?’”
John in English Five—"No sir, but I've got ‘All By Myself on the Victrola.’”

Prof.—"What does this reaction?”
Wyman—"Just a minute, I have it on the end of my tongue.”
Prof.—"Well, spit it out.”
Wyman—"Arsenic.”stand for in out, it’s College Nuisances

1—Speedy Carr’s victrola.
2—8:30 classes.
3—Open ditches.
4—Corn flakes for days out of the year.
5—Wiggs Bradford and Randolph Jones soliciting for Ben Vonde.
6—"Tobe Johnson's wrinkling club, breakfast.

Prof.—"Mr. Kiss!"

Fresh Franklin—“Kiss is a noun, generally used as a conjunction. It is never declined. It is not singular and it
is usually used in the plural. It agrees with me. It is more common than proper.”

Franklin, parse.

Prof. in Sophomore Chemistry class—If anything goes wrong with this chemical mixture, it will blow us sky high. Now gentlemen,
if the class will kindly step up so you may follow me more closely.

The girl who’s not good looking but can dance like a million is like an Elgin movement in an Ingersoll
case.

College as father sees it: A vast laboratory of life where youth, bright-eyed, flushed, and eager prepares itself to solve
the unsolvable problems of the nation and universe.

As mother sees it: A sort of social paradise where sons absorb that intangible something called culture, breathe in the
atmosphere of refinement from close contact with an intellectual faculty, and later, emerge learned in the graces and niceties of
life to take their places as social paragons.

As self-made business men see it: A huge drunken debauch, where youth is taught conceit, egotism and the seven deadly
sins.

As it is: Chapel, classes, meals, bed, and movies when you are not broke. A dispiriting, stupefying, and endless succession.

Extracts From Reviews Given Last Week

English—Do you think this is a pretty poem? Is it nice? Why not? Is it bucolic, or cholic? Who wrote
it? When? Why?

Physics: A round ball B and C, two inches in diameter and weighing 5,000,710.00 grams is rolling up an inclined
plane, coef. of exp. 5, at an angle of 96 degrees, at the rate of 40 per. What started it?

Chemistry: H2S8QO) plus H2’T116 plus 511202 plus 2NIHOH plus 7PB (NO. 3). 2. How much? Why?

Law: Dr. Swiltz, a bigamist, sues both of his wives for divorce on the grounds that the first wife drove
him to drink, and that only in this inebriated condition was it that he married the second. Marie, his first
wife, claims that Swiltz did not need to be driven; Annie, his second, states that she had not the heart
to refuse the plea of a man with an air about him like Swiltz. What has Marie got on Vinnie?

TRINITY WILL BE MET ON GREENSBORO FIELD

Having gained a glorious victory in holding the heavier-to-a-man Virginia Tech team to a tie, the scrapping Wildcats have shown
what they can do when their fighting claws are out and their fangs are bared, and they are now ready
to take the measure of Trinity’s fast eleven. Next Saturday Davidson will play Trinity on Cone Field in Greensboro and
as it is the first game in football history between the two schools, it has aroused a good bit of
interest among fans of the pigskin.

In the realm of football, dope is never too certain and is frequently upset, as was shown in the late
game with V. P. I. when all the computations and predictions of the sages of football were scattered to the
winds. If the two teams had played in past seasons there would be some ground for comparison. As dope goes
this is the way things stand. When Trinity played Hampden-Sidney, she won by a score of 28 to 0 and
V. P. I. gained a victory over Hampden-Sidney by a 38 to 0 score. As Davidson and V. P. I.
tied, this would give Davidson the odds by 10 points. Yet on the other hand, Carolina beat Trinity by 21
points, Trinity failing to score, and Carolina walked away with Wake Forest by a 62 to 3 score. As Davidson
and Wake Forest tied, this would give Trinity the odds by 38 points. This need not cause any undue alarm
though, for Wildcat teams are noted for their capacity as first class dope spillers and they are looking forward, blood
in eye, to a safe victory over the Trinity team.

Announcement

We wish to announce that MR. W. J. COOPER of the Davidsonian Staff is now our representative on “The Hill.”
You may be assured that any orders placed with him will receive our most careful attention.

Printing Company, CHARLOTTE, N.C.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.
14-16 East Fourth Street
College Annuals
Magazines
Catalogues
Social Stationery
(3-Day Service on Wedding Invitations)

Chosen by men who are particular about style and careful about quality

The Florsheim Shoe
H. C. LONG COMPANY
33 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE

THE PERSONAL EFFECTS of a student can be protected by Insurance against Fire, Lightning, the hazards of Transportation, Theft, Pilferage
and Larceny at a minimum cost. For particulars write or see

McAlister Carson, manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
