THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1922.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

TO OUR FRIENDS IN DAVIDSON

CAN YOU HELP US?

The Y. M. C. A. desires to purchase some large and small rugs for the “Y” room. If you have
any extra or second-hand ones, please notify W. J. (“Dick”) Richards or Dwight Chalmers before Saturday.

The association can also use most effectively, and would appreciate the donation of (1) Current Magazines, (2) Books of Fiction,
Travel, History, etc., (3) Small Tables, (4) Ferns or Potted Plants, (5) Pictures, Pillows or Pennants.

STUDENTS TO SPEAK AT THE Y. M. C. A. NEXT SUNDAY.

The “Y” program on Sunday will include four student speakers: Pat Crawford, of the Junior class; Doc LaFar, Jim Sprunt,
and Mac Richards, of the Senior class. These men are leaders in the campus life and their messages will be
well worth hearing. It is good to hear the men who are within the student circle and the speakers secured
will ensure a worthwhile program for all who attend the “Y” meeting next Sunday.

DR. W. H. FRAZER SPEAKS AT “Y” ON HAVING BACKBONE

An evidence of the impression made by Doctor Frazer, President of Queens College, in an address to the Y. M.
C. A. last Sunday, was given in the large number of those who went up to speak to him after
the service. In a fiery, interesting address he appealed for unconditional loyalty to that which is right, regardless of all
consequences. Constant reference was made to the three Israelites, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in all trying times. The address was
well begun by suitable humorous remarks. When Nebuchadnezzar, with his ideas of world-conquest, set up the golden image and ordered
all to worship it, three men were bold enough to resist. To bow before the image was an easy thing
to do, and yet to refuse meant death, according to the word of the king. Still, in spite of this,
these men put their trust in God and showed their manhood by living up to their convictions in this and
all other trying cases.

The speaker then showed that the majority of people today still follow the example of the multitudes who bowed before
the image. They set aside the power of conviction and follow the example of the great common herd. They consider
their own interests and advancement rather than take the initiative in standing up for the right, a thing which requires
true manhood.

It was also pointed out that these three men formed their decision regardless of what was the consequence of it.
They also did it immediately and without argument, just as Abraham obeyed when God ordered him to sacrifice Isaac. They
put no “if” in their contract with God. And because they exercised this faith, God protected them when they were
cast into the fiery furnace. The closing thought was that we should also step out four-square on an unconditional religion,
forsake evil regardless of consequences, and thus find our Helper waiting. Doctor Frazer closed the service with a prayer.

MINISTERIAL BAND PLANS FOR A CLOSER FELLOWSHIP

At the usual meeting of the Ministerial Band on Sunday, February 26th, there was no special speaker or program. After
a brief talk by the president, the meeting was thrown open for talks by anyone present. T. H. Patterson, the
president, spoke on Christian fellowship, taking incidents in Christ’s life for his examples. He told of the danger of substituting
“like” for “love” in our devotion to Christ, and advocated the closest fellowship possible among the followers of Christ and
between them and Christ. Using the passage, “Feed my sheep,” he said that we should show Christ to others as
a testimony of our love for Him. After this Taylor, Summers, Walthall, H. D. Brown, and Fraser made short talks
on the methods of securing the fellowship advocated by the president. The meeting was very helpful because of these heart-to-heart
talks.

The Band is planning for more development along social lines. To this end a social committee, composed of Fraser, Gamble,
and White, was appointed. In order to bring the members of the Band closer together, the nicknames of all the
members have been gathered together. These, along with the real names, will be mimeographed and distributed among the Band. Then
there will be a contest to see who can learn them all the quickest. The Band believes that actions speak
louder than words and so is doing more than merely talking about “fellowship.”

VOLUNTEER BAND STAGES A FINE FEED AND TALK FEST

Last Saturday night, immediately after the movies, the Volunteer Band gave a feed, having as its guests those interested in
the Band and the things for which it stands, and Drs. Arbuckle and Porter as honor guests and special speakers.
Upon the doors being thrown open, the hungry guests beheld the witching sight of long tables groaning under the weight
of heaps of succulent edibles of every description. The kind hosts, knowing that the craving “inner man” is wont to
be impatient, insisted that all lose no time in satisfying their longings, which request was vigorously complied with.

After all had eaten until they would have been ashamed to look an honest, law-abiding chicken-salad sandwich in the face,
a joke-telling contest was held. Those entering the contest were some comical, some pathetic. Among these was “Chef” McAlpine, who,
being spurred on by his recent success on the stage, entered, thirsting for the laurels of victory and emerged wearing
the crown of triumph, which proved to be an Eskimo pie. Not to be outdone by him, “Junebug” Price and
Wallace Purdy also won coveted Eskimo pies. Had there been enough pies left, probably all in the contest would have
received them. But as there were only five left, two of which had to go to the judges, Doctor Arbuckle
and Doctor Porter, who refused to render their services unless pie were forthcoming, only three remained to go to the
three best jokers.

When the contest, which was thoroughly enjoyed by all, was ended, a more serious side was turned to. Doctor Porter
told of his experiences in India and why he answered the call to go. Doctor Arbuckle followed him, giving an
inspiring and helpful talk. The Band was very fortunate in having these two members of the faculty with them and
it is certain that their talks were enjoyed by all. Ed Cunningham spoke for the Band, welcomingthe guests and explaining
briefly the purpose of the feed. Walter Knox responded on behalf of the guests, thanking the Band for their hospitality
and assuring them of the appreciation of the guests. The feed will live long in the memory of those present
as one of the best and most successful of the year, in which there was just the right proportion of
mirth and seriousness. D. R. D. Hall, ’20, “Prep” Hall, ’20, and E. P. Hall, ’20, of Belmont were on
the hill for the game Saturday. “Prep” Hall, an old Wildcat guard, is coach of the Belmont team. D. H.
M. DeLorme, ex-’24, and Dyer Barnum, ex-’24, of Sumter, S. C., spent Sunday on the hill with friends. 231 S.
Tryon St. mission field of our church.

VOLUNTEER BAND HEARS OF WORK OF ROMAN CATHOLICS

At the regular meeting of the Volunteer Band Sunday morning, Victor C. Hoye revealed some of the startling religious and
moral conditions now existing in our Mexican mission fields. His talk was introduced by a brief geographical description of Mexico
in which he showed that the country was not such a wilderness as is generally supposed. Hoye stated that Roman
Catholicism is the dominant religion in Mexico at present and is very corrupt in numerous ways. A brief summary of
his speech will show that many of the priests of the Catholic Church in Mexico are unscrupulous and immoral. By
their vows, they are forbidden to marry, but they openly have children just the same. Their fees for marrying the
natives are so high that they cannot be paid in many cases and thus among the lower classes that institution
is almost abandoned. It is easily seen what the moral conditions of the poor people are. The priests practice intolerance
and at frequent intervals send authoritative persons throughout the country who collect all the Bibles distributed by our missionaries and
have a Bible burning. This is a great hindrance to the Christian work and in fact is one of the
most serious problems confronting the present-day missionary there. On account of these great obstacles, less progress has been made in
Mexico than in any other mission field of our church. On account of the recent revolution in Mexico, our missionaries
were compelled to come back to the United States for a period, but have returned. However, the revolution seemed to
work out for the good of the Presbyterian missionaries, for when they returned it was to a new field located
just south of Mexico City. Here they seem to have better results as well as fewer hardships. At the close
of the meeting, Ed Cunningham announced about the volunteer secretary and also about the approaching convention of the volunteer bands.

THE MICROBE OF LOVE (Continued from page 1)

dress to the bachelors by Jeremiah Henpeck (P. H. McAlpine), the star actor of the evening. In an eloquent speech,
he showed the folly of married life and besought the bachelors never to let women inveigle them into matrimony. Finally,
his flow of oratory was cut short by the arrival of Mrs. Henpeck (Miss Margaret Davidson) who pulled him back
to his domicile by one ear. The final act was a garden party arranged by Madame Cupid at which the
microbe was injected into the bachelors with telling effect. A feature of this act was the song and dance performance
of Miss Martha Gibbs and Flop Beaver: “I'm Looking for a Sweetheart.” After each of the spinsters had obtained the
consummation of her heart's desire in the person of a bachelor, the wedding of Madame Cupid and Billie Bachelor took
place as the grand finale. The chorus, composed of Misses Gibbs, White, Christenbury, Hood, Johnson, Shelton, Potts, Goodrum, Porter, and
Helper, contributed a large share to the enjoyment of the evening with their graceful dancing, bewitching appearance, and melodious song.

Central Hotel Cigar Stand
Selwyn Hotel Cigar Stand
Joe D. Smith, Mgr.

YOUR HOME IS NOT COMPLETE WITHOUT A NEW EDISON
“The phonograph with a soul”
Office Supply & Equipment Co., Inc.
DEALERS
Call or write
Charlotte, N. C.

EAGLE “MIKADO”
For Sale at your Dealer
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Pencil No. 174
Made in five grades

LOUISVILLE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Scholarly Practical
Prepares for the ministry
Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone
DAVIDSON, N. C.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W. S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr.
4 East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill.
Located in the heart of the chief city of the South.
Scholarship for prepared students.
Write to
JOHN M. VANDER MEULEN, D. D., LL. D., President
Progressive Spiritual
Located in the heart in the Twentieth Century
Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers
Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3186
221 W. Trade St.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

Wakes You Up
In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
