THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922

DORMITORIES PAGE

Systems of Steam Heating For Comfort and Results

We are designing a new central heating plant for Davidson College

Webster, of course

For particulars consult C. Ferber White Resident Sales Engineer 911 Commercial Nat'l Bank Bldg. Charlotte, N. C.

BUILDING CONTRACTORS || FOUNDATIONS BEING LAID BY CHARLOTTE CONTRACTORS

Economies in building. They are four materials obtainable. The heating work will be let in a few days, enabling the heating contractors to work along with the concrete men.

Architect’s Drawing of New Dormitory

FOR TWO NEW DORMITORIES

The foundations for the two new dormitories are being laid by the general contractors, Blythe and Isenhour, of Charlotte, N. C. The two buildings are exact duplicates, making possible many economies in building. They are four stories high and will be built of the best materials obtainable. The new dormitories will be heated from the central heating plant, plans for which have been drawn by C. Ferber White, of Charlotte, representing the Warren-Webster Co. The contract for the heating work will be let in a few days, enabling the heating contractors to work along with the concrete men.

Electricians began work Monday. The buildings will be wired as built. The hardware contract will be let soon. An extra heavy type will be used. There will be a master-key for each building and an individual key for each room.

All of the structural steel for the buildings and the ornamental iron work will be furnished by the Tolbert Co., of Charlotte, representing Truscon and other steel firms. This contract is a rather large one, as iron stairways will be used.

Each room will be well lighted and ventilated, for it will have two large windows. All of the sash, doors, and other millwork will be furnished by J. H. Wearn & Co., of Charlotte, one of the largest millwork firms in the state.

Already enough has been done to enable a lively imagination to picture these buildings as they will be next September. Soon the concrete frame with its outer and inner walls of brick will rise. Concrete floors will be laid, to be covered with wood later. These floors will be three or four feet thick and so will render the building practically fireproof and soundproof. If a fire should start in any one room it could only burn through the wooden veneer on the floor, to be stopped by the thick concrete underneath.

As has been stated, the new dormitories will be modern in every respect. There will be a lavatory room on each floor. Ample shower baths are provided in the basement. Closets ample for all needs are provided in each room.

Many applications are being made for rooms every week. It would seem that the whole campus wants to change its place of residence next year. When the first call for chapel sounds next September, a crowd of some two hundred and thirty upperclassmen and perhaps a few freshmen will pour from the doors of the twins to wend their hasty way to Shearer.

DAVIDSON MAKES PLANS FOR CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEM

For many years Davidson has been badly in need of an adequate heating system. There is a central heating plant, but it is not of sufficient capacity to heat even the few buildings that are now connected up with it. A plant to adequately heat all of the buildings on the campus and any that...might be added in the near future has long been the goal of the college authorities. It would seem that at last this goal has been attained, for C. Ferber White, of Charlotte, resident sales engineer of the Warren-Webster Co., has been authorized to draw up plans for a system to embrace the entire campus. As yet the construction contract has not been let. The plant will probably be located back of and a little beyond new dormitory number two. From it, steam lines will radiate that will girdle the campus. From these main lines, feeders will enter all of the buildings on the campus. These lines are of sufficient capacity to handle any additional burden that will likely be placed on them for years to come. Special provision is made for the new Chambers building.

The steam lines will be covered with heat-retaining coverings distributed by the General Equipment Co., of Charlotte. It is expected that their “Undabestos” will be quite largely used.

While visiting the South recently, a traveler chanced upon a resident of a sleepy hamlet in Alabama. “Are you a native of this town?” asked the traveler. “Am I what?” languidly asked the one addressed. “Are you a native of this town?” “What's that?” At this juncture, there appeared at the open door of the cabin the man’s wife, tall, sallow, and gaunt. After a careful survey of the questioner, she said, “Ain’t you got no sense, Bill? He means was you livin’ heah when yo’ was born, or was yo’ born before yo’ begun livin’ heah. Now answer him.”

A well-known lawyer is telling a good story about himself and his efforts to correct the manners of his office boy. One morning, not long ago, the young autocrat blew into his office and tossing his cap at a hook, exclaimed: “Say, Mr. Blank, there’s a ball game at the park today and I’m going.” Now the attorney is not a hard-hearted man, and was willing the boy should go, but thought he would teach him a little lesson in good manners. “Jimmie,” he said, “that isn’t the way to ask a favor. Now you come over here and sit down and I'll show you how to do it.” The boy took the office chair and his employer picked up his cap and stepped outside. He then opened the door softly and holding the cap in his hand said quietly to the small boy in the big chair: “Please, sir, there is a ball game at the park today; if you can spare me I would like to get away for the afternoon.” In a flash, the boy responded: “Why certainly Jimmie, and here is fifty cents to pay your way in.”

HISTORY

We offer an architectural service of distinction
We designed the Alumni Gymnasium
We designed the two dormitories now building
May we have the opportunity of serving you?

Robert F. Siaaikivoadll
70 Morningside Drive
New York City

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Insurance Dept.

R. S. GARMON G&G BRO.
CONTRACTORS FOR
Sheet Metal Cornices, Skylights, Ventilators, Tin, Slate and Tile Roofing
We have been awarded the contract for the roofing of the new dormitories at Davidson College
Galvanized Iron Cornices, Potts’ A. L. T. Tin Roof Ventilator and All Galvanized Iron Work

CHAMBERS BUILDING
A Monument to Christian Education with a great past

INSURANCE
FIRE
Our money for its ashes

NEW BUILDINGS
A Greater Future

INSURANCE SERVICE
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. (‘13)
Charlotte, N. C.