Do You Want Hazing?
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Down to Work Basketeers!
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
——
Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 14, 1922 No. 12

EIGHT STALWART WILDCATS FIGHT THEIR LAST BATTLE
Red and Black Scraps Valiantly, But Closes Inauspiciously
SHEPHERD WILL RETURN
V. P. I. Contest Written Luminously On Pages of Davidson Football History

The standard excuse for sports writers everywhere, in their attempt to explain a poor season, is “the breaks were against us.” The writer would like to be original but the facts prevent it. The 1922 football season cannot by any stretch of imagination be called successful. Two victories, two ties, and six defeats is hardly up to the standard set by Davidson teams of a few years ago. Material and spirit seemed to be plentiful, but a cog was slipping somewhere. Here’s hoping it's fixed by next season.

Several games that should have been won by the Wildcats were chalked up on the wrong side of the ledger. Apparently Dame Fortune would merely wave her hand, something would happen and the Wildcat pocketbooks would be a little flatter. And it happened with monotonous regularity throughout the year. From the time that a misplaced goal post gave a team a safety and a one-point victory until the failure to make first down by one-half an inch produced the same result, the Wildcats were altogether under a jinx.

The Red and Black played a superior brand of ball in many games this season. That valiant fight against V. P. I. will long be remembered by those who saw it; the scores in the Georgia Tech and Furman games show the Wildcats could play good football. But somehow the games managed to slip away one by one.

Eight Wildcats have completed their gridiron careers and will view the games from the sidelines hereafter. Captain Moore, Davis, McMasters, Sorrells, Brice, Martin, Long, and Dick have hung up their cleated shoes for the last time. These veterans of many gridiron campaigns will be sorely missed when the roll is called next fall. The news that Gig Shepherd has announced his intention of returning to college next fall has been the occasion of much rejoicing among the Red and Black supporters.

(Continued on page 4)

WELL BALANCED SCHEDULE TO CONFRONT 1923 GRID TEAM
Washington and Lee, Clemson, and Sewanee Are New Teams On List

Manager Hugh Smith has been working hard for some time arranging the schedule for the 1923 football team. Although it is as yet incomplete, several games have been either definitely or tentatively decided upon. Judging from these contests, the Wildcats will be up against a hard but well-balanced schedule next fall.

At least one team that Davidson played this year will not have a place on next year’s schedule. It has been definitely decided to discontinue the annual game with Georgia Tech. Many will regret the fact that this action has been taken, for with the exception of the S. A. T. C. year, the Golden

(Continued on Page 6)

A DAY FOR OTHERS

There is one way to make a white Christmas even though there may be not a flake of snow in sight. Let the whiteness be in your heart. Put aside all thoughts of guile. Forget all the big or little bitterness you may be entertaining towards some other person. Cast out all envy, all covetousness, all unkindness. Endeavor to harbor in your heart only such thoughts and feelings as the Nazarene knew when he dwelt by Galilee. Cultivate human brotherhood. Practice Christian charity. Look beyond and above your workaday horizon. Get out of yourself. Get into the heart of others.—Selected.

NEW PROPOSAL AIMS DEATH BLOW AT CUSTOM OF HAZING
Complete Abolition of Traditional Institution Is Proposed By Prominent Students

To haze or not to haze—that is the question? The student council is now taking steps to decide whether the Freshmen will be subject to hazing as has been practiced on the Hill this year. Hazing has been very light compared to former years, but an effort is being made to wholly eliminate this means employed by upperclassmen in demonstrating their superiority over the lowly Freshmen, and institute a court of control in its place.

Last Friday morning, at a meeting of the student body, Sam Davis, president of this organization, and Bascomb Sorrells, president of the Senior class, laid on the table plans for the substitution of a court of control for the vigilance committee. The court of control, as offered by the student council, will be composed of eight members—four Seniors, two Juniors, and two Sophomores. These men are to be selected by the president of the student body in conference with the Senior members of the student council. There will be one judge who will

(Continued on Page 5)

WILDCAT MINSTRELS RENDER PETITION FOR TRIP ABROAD
Trip Planned to Advertise Davidson Campaign Gaining In Favor

The Wildcat Minstrels plan to take the trips of the Glee Club, provided the faculty gives its consent. Four trips, including Converse and Peace, have been arranged by the Glee Club, with others pending, and it is hoped that the Minstrels can accompany them. Bob MacLeod, representing the Glee Club, and Tubby Woolfolk, of the Dramatic Club, will discuss the matter with Doctor Martin on his return from New Orleans. Other members of the faculty have been approached on the subject and they have expressed their willingness to back the movement. Professor Erwin will supervise the trips, and will probably accompany the Minstrels.

More than likely, the same cast, consisting of 23 men who presented the minstrel here, will make the trips. It is planned by the management of the Minstrels to take the scenery belonging to the Dramatic Club. It is hoped that the Minstrels will be permitted to play five engagements. Practically

(Continued on page 4)

CHAMBERS CAMPAIGN ROUNDS HALF WAY MARK TO SUCCESS
Churches, Alumni, and Friends of Davidson Rally to the Cause
OUTLOOK IS BRIGHT
Memorial Rooms Provided By Special Donations—Tablets Will Be Erected

By C. F. SMITH

According to a statement made by Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, manager of the Davidson College campaign, on Monday of this week, around $325,000 or over half of the $600,000 needed for the replacing of the Chambers building and increased endowment

(Continued on Page 6)

THREE-MILE CROSS-COUNTRY WON EASILY BY STATE TEAM
Selser Runs Good Race, While Galloway and McBryde are Forced Out

The old jinx that has been tracking Davidson athletics all this fall laid hold of the cross-country team at Chapel Hill this week and the Wildcats failed to furnish the three men necessary to count in the three-mile run. Selser finished in fifth place, but Galloway and McBryde were troubled with bad sides. McBryde had to drop out, while Galloway finished way down the list. Ranson, of Carolina, won the event in the remarkable time of 15 minutes and 42 seconds, on a muddy course. Corkle, of State, came in second, andWhen two other State men finished in third and fourth place, State won the run. Selser ran almost a dead heat with Milstead, of Carolina, but nosed him out in a sprint to the tape for fifth place. Carolina won second place by finishing men first, sixth, and eighth. Davidson and Trinity failed to finish three men, and Elon failed to turn up at the last moment.

D: What’s Doing

THURSDAY
1 p.m.—Eu Society.
1 p.m.—Phi Society.

SATURDAY
7:30 p.m.—Movies—“The Impossible Mrs. Bellew”—a Paramount picture.

SUNDAY
10:00 a.m.—Union Band—Dr. Wells will speak.
1 p.m.—C. E. Training Class.
3:30 p.m.—Sunday School.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper service—Dr. Wells, president of Columbia Seminary, will be the speaker.

MONDAY
8:45 a.m.—Student body votes on constitutional amendments.
7 p.m.—Pandemic Society.

TUESDAY
6:45 p.m.—Metropolitan Society.
9 p.m.—Bible Class Leaders.

WEDNESDAY
1:30 p.m.—Home, Sweet Home!

A DAY OF FUN

If Christmas is peculiarly the festival of joy, the day when the gladness of the deliverance in which every Christian believes is expressed, the American people have certainly done well in continuing the festival where its celebration is native to them, and reviving it where it had become obsolete. The whole human race, and particularly the youthful part of it, is fairly entitled to a good deal of merrymaking. Wholesome fun helps to form a well-rounded character—to build up a complete man or woman—and to this extent is the handmaiden of religion itself.—Selected.

RED CROSS CHAPTER OFFERS DRAMATICS BY LOCAL TALENT

Two One-Act Plays and Speech By Tuberculosis Expert to Stimulate Seal Sale

Two one-act plays, presented by local talent, pleased a good audience and cast a few dollars into the coffers of the local Red Cross chapter when “Joint Owners in Spain” and “The Neighbors” were presented in Shearer Hall auditorium last Saturday night by the Davidson chapter of the Red Cross. These plays were well enacted and the characters showed up well under the direction of Mrs. Russell H. Wagner.

The first play, “Joint Owners in Spain,” in which the parts were ably taken by Misses Johnsie Shelton, Ruth Henderson, Mary Black, and Margaret Adams, depicted the cramped room in a Spanish flat with two cross old maids as roommates. It showed the old women as they used a chalk line for a partition between their rooms and, through many difficulties, they finally became friends going on a sleigh ride together.

The closing play was “The Neighbors” in which Mrs. Wagner was “Mrs. Abel,” Mrs. Sam Presson was “Grandmother,” while Miss Jean Martin took the part of “Inez.”

WILDCAT FORENSIC ARTISTS PREPARED FOR W.&L. CONTEST

Ogden and Gamble, With Wharton As Alternate, Compose Team

At Lexington, Va., on the evening of December 16, the Wildcat debating team, composed of Arnett Gamble and Dunbar Ogden, will lock horns with Washington and Lee in the first debate between these institutions since 1919. The question is, Resolved, That the United States government should cancel the debts made to her European allies since April 6th, 1917. Davidson will uphold the affirmative side of this debate.

The men who will strive to maintain Davidson’s famous debating record are well qualified for the task. This is Gamble’s third year of intercollegiate debating and, in addition to this, he was Davidson’s representative in the Peace contest of last year. Ogden’s record also is worthy of note. He has won practically every speaking contest which was open to him in the past three years and was also a member of one of last year’s debating teams. The alternate, D. Benton Wharton, has done excellent work in his society since his arrival last year, and will be in charge.

FIVE VARSITY LETTER MEN PROMISE A BANNER SEASON

Coaches Hengeveld and Grey Have Wealth of Material With Which to Work

SCHEDULE IS BALANCED

Captain Mauze Feels Confident of a Red Letter Season for the Poison Squad

The King is dead. Long live the King. The curtain has fallen on the last act of the football drama, and the calcium rays of the spotlight are now focused on the new hero—basketball. The cleated shoes, shoulder pads, moleskins, and other implements of the pigskin game have been hung safely away in the lockers, and the court game holds the center of the stage.

The Red and Black seems destined to have another banner year on the court. From last year’s squad which made the best record ever turned in by a Davidson basketball team, five letter men have returned. In addition, there is a wealth of material that has been developed by scrub and class ball. Although their eligibility is as yet a doubtful matter, the Freshman class has several stars of the first water.

Warhorse Mauze, “the rangy lad from the wilds of West Virginia,” is captain of the quintet this year. Warhorse has developed a great deal under the watchful eye of Coach Dutch, and in addition to being the highest scorer on last year’s team, he proved to be a valuable floor man. He underwent an operation for appendicitis last summer, but judging from the manner in which he cavorts around the floor, he has fully recovered. He was selected for the all-State team last spring, and is sure to be a tower of strength at the pivot position this year.

Pat Crawford, another lad who has been selected for the all-State team, will again strut his stuff from the running guard position. Pat was captain of last year’s Poison Squad, and is a combination of carbolic acid, arsenic, and T.N.T. He has been making varsity trips for three years and his experience, fight, and ability are sure to make him a big factor in again placing the Red and Black in line for the State championship.

Nappy Davis, who has magnets in his fingers to enable him to pull down unheard-of passes, has exchanged his cleated shoes for a pair of the non-skid variety. He is no less

NEW FEATURES PLANNED FOR PAGES OF 1923 YEAR BOOK

Question of Finances Is Staff’s Most Serious Problem

According to the present plans, the 1923 number of Quips and Cranks will be one of the biggest and fullest annuals ever published at Davidson. In an interview with a Davidsonian reporter, Business Manager R. L. McLeod stated that the new annual will contain three distinctly new features, namely, a double color invocation, a scenic section, and an enlarged sponsor section. It has not yet been decided to whom the annual will be dedicated nor have all the sponsors been selected. Practically all the organizations on the hill will have a sponsor.

It was also stated by the business manager that so far only a very few advertisements have been secured and hence the pub

Merry, Happy Christmas!