4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor
V. A. GAMBLE, JR. Managing Editor

H. R. FULLER Editor

R. F. DAVIDSON Alumni Editor

H. McKEITHEN Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, W. S. GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. H. BROWN, C. V.
HESTON, W. M. MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. JONES, J. R.
TULLER, C. D. WALTHALL, D. B.
ELLIOTT, W. T. LACY, T. A.
C. F. BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES Circulation Manager
Assistants in Circulation Department:
S. C. FAIN, P. C. HENDERSON, WATT McCAIN, R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

We hope it is not too late to wish all our readers a very happy New Year.

Next Monday is to be dress-up day at Davidson as the photographer will be here to take pictures of the student body on that date. Shaves and hair-cuts are in order.

The popularity of Mr. Wilson is well attested by the fact that more orders for copies of our Woodrow Wilson issue poured in upon the management than it was able to fill. These requests came not only from friends of the college, but from men and women who had no ties holding them to Davidson as well. Having read that the paper was to be issued in honor of the great leader, they could not be satisfied without possessing a copy of their own.

NEW YEAR RESOLUTIONS

PERHAPS this subject may seem just a little out of date to most of our readers. “Two weeks ago,” you will say, “It would have been all right, but now. Oh, well, this is the time of year most of us are beginning to wonder just what all those good resolutions we made on January 1st were anyway.” All very true, but since this is the first paper we have issued in 1922, and the subject a very good one, we insist on our right to make use of it. We shall limit ourselves to the discussion of one resolution, however; that concerning attendance at the weekly meetings of the Y. M. C. A. on Sunday nights. This is the only religious meeting at Davidson which the student body can claim as distinctively its own. Of course, there are many other gatherings of a religious nature on our campus, but nowhere else is there an opportunity for the entire student body to hold an assembly which is strictly its own. Every effort has been made to render the programs for these meetings attractive. Able speakers have been secured, and special music together with the singing of gospel hymns are other especially enjoyable features, and yet the attendance is not what it should be. It is true that there has been a great improvement over the conditions which prevailed in past years. Instead of a few score students, we now have from a half to two-thirds of the student body present, but the showing is still poor by comparison with what it should be. Such a meeting as the one last Sunday when only 200 men turned out to hear one of the best addresses of the year from our own secretary makes us wonder what is the matter. Why could not every one of us resolve to become a regular attendant at these services, and see to it that this resolution, at least, is not broken?

THE FINAL CRAM.

Examinations are upon us. That dreaded period which seemed so far off and unimportant in September is now close at hand and uppermost in almost every mind. The schedule for all four classes has already been posted and with this last uncertainty removed, the student body is ready for one last desperate effort to fool the professors, and finish the work of the first term with flying colors. For the wise few who have studied hard all fall, the approaching crisis holds little to dread. Naturally, they are somewhat uneasy lest their grades fall a little lower than they might desire, but for them, there is no real danger of failure. For others who have been less wise and less industrious, however, the next few days will be of immense importance. Upon their ability to grasp within a short period what they should have learned in the months past will depend the success or failure of their fall’s work. It should therefore be incumbent upon each individual to see that so far as he is concerned every other man has ample opportunity to do his studying. Simply because you have no desire to work your-self, do not take it for granted that your neighbor has an equal inclination to idleness. The moments that mean so little to you may mean the difference between passing and flunking to him. Give a little thought to others. Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room. The following exchanges may bring back to mind some of your thoughts and actions during the holidays:

Propinquity.
He stood by her,
She stood by him;
His arm was long,
Her waist was slim;
You guess of course,
What happened then
(Girls will be girls,
Men will be men).
Since love is sweet,
And life is young;
What wonder they
Together clung.
And yet we hate to mar—
They clung to straps
In a crowded car.
—Selected.

College Spirit.
Have you caught a new vision here?
Or has your sight not yet been clear?
It's natural to feel something new,
A thing stirring up the best in you
That moulds character into the brand
With a keener love and sympathy for your fellow man,
Reach out for it and get into its breathing,
worth the getting and leaving
It’s the grand ole College Spirit you feel
Put willingness behind your motor and it will turn the wheel.
—Ex.

I DOUBT IT.
It’s never the finest
When a pair of red lips are turned to your own,
With no one to gossip about it.
Do you pray for endurance to let them alone?
Maybe you do—but I doubt it.
When a sly little hand you're permitted to seize,
With a velvety softness about,
Do you think you can drop it with never a squeeze?
Well, maybe you can—but I doubt it.
When a tapering waist is in reach of your arm,
With a wonderful plumpness about it,
Do you argue the point twixt the good and the harm?
Well, maybe you do—but I doubt it.
And if by these tricks you should capture a heart,
With a womanly sweetness about it,
Would you guard it and keep it and act the good part?
Well, maybe you will—but I doubt it.
—Ex.

MANAGING EDITOR’S FOUR INCHES
The last sentence in the article on Doctor Pettingill in the last issue was shown as the lead when the article came from the reporter. This was hardly a good opening sentence for this write-up. The latest edition of Woolley’s Handbook of Composition gives the following rules regarding the use of quotation marks, which may be helpful to our reporters:

When a quotation mark and another mark of punctuation both follow the same word—
(a) A question or exclamation mark should stand first if it applies to the quotation and not to the sentence containing the quotation.
Wrong: He said, “Are you hurt’?
Right: He said, “Are you hurt?”
(b) The quotation mark should stand first if the question or exclamation mark applies, not to the quotation, but to the sentence containing the quotation.
Wrong: Did the letter say, “Come tonight at ten?”
Right: Did the letter say, “Come tonight at ten”?
(c) In either of the above cases no comma or period should be used in addition to the quotation mark and the question mark or exclamation mark.
(d) A period or a comma should always precede the quotation mark.
(e) A semi-colon or a colon should always follow the quotation mark.

CHONG and MOEY
A Chinese Version of American Songs and Dances
WILD and HILLS in “My Friend”
ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville PROGRAM
Thurs. Fri., Sat., Jan. 12th, 13th, 14th

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
Charlotte, N. C.

WILL H. ARMSTRONG
Assisted by Maudie Smith in “The $100,000 Ankle”
OVERTURE
WRIGHT and DIETRICH
“The Somewhat Different Singers”
BILLIE McKEE and CLARE GIRLS
“The Melodious Trio”
PATHE NEWS and COMEDY
B. R. Cates, Manager

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor, peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.
Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices
Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store.
An Unusual Display at
$35 $40 $45
Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes
HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N.C.
“A HOME COMPANY A HOME BUILDER”