THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

CAPTAIN McBRIDE

Davidson College is grieved to hear of the death of an alumnus who has always held his Alma Mater dear
to him even though it was some 64 years ago that he bade her doors goodbye. Captain Malcolm H. McBride,
aged 88 years, is the person whose many friends join with his Alma Mater to mourn his death. Captain McBride
has always ranked high among his fellowmen as he did in college. As captain of the “Scotch Boys” he was
known to have the best drilled company in his regiment during the war. He was the inventor of the popular
McBride Cotton Press, which has met with appreciative favor throughout the South. Having spent a great deal of his life
in this section of the country, Captain McBride accumulated a wealth of land in Robeson and Scotland counties, and also
possessed a number of governmental securities, ranking him as one of the wealthiest men in the county. Captain McBride never
married, but he has a large and prominent family connection in Scotland, Hoke, Robeson, and Cumberland counties, who have Davidson’s
sincere feeling of sympathy at the death of one so dear. As a member of the Laurinburg Presbyterian Church he
did a God-blessed work in charitable circles.

Now is the time to subscribe.

VIEW OF CHAMBERS BUILDING

To be restored as a part of Greater Davidson

Which Type of Research is of Greatest Value?

A stove burns too much coal. A man familiar with the principles of combustion and heat radiation makes experiments which
indicate desirable changes in design. That is research.

You want to make a ruby in a factory, a real ruby, indistinguishable by any test from the natural stone.
You begin by analyzing rubies chemically and physically. Then you make rubies just as nature did. Your rubies are the
result of research—another type of research.

While melting up your chemicals and experimenting with high temperatures, you begin to wonder how hot the earth must have
been millions of years ago, and what were the forces at play that made this planet what it is. Your
investigation leads you far from rubies and causes you to formulate theories to explain how the earth, how the whole
solar system was created. That would be research of a still different type.

Research of all three types is conducted in the laboratories of the General Electric Company. But it is the third
type—pioneering into the unknown—that means most in the long run, even though undertaken with no practical benefit in view. For
example, the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company are exploring matter with X-rays in order to discover not only
how the atoms in different substances are arranged but how the atoms themselves are built up. The more you know
about a substance, the more you can do with it. This work may enable scientists to answer more definitely the
question: Why is iron magnetic? Then the electrical industry will take a greater step forward than can be made in
a century of experimenting with existing electrical apparatus.to an old house. But to build a new house, you must begin
with the foundation. General Electric Company

CLASS '22 GATHER AT MONTREAT FOR REUNION

Montreat was made happy on August 17 by the assembling of members of the class of '22 for their first
reunion. The evening was rendered ideal by a sumptuous banquet at the Montreat Hotel. The class was called to order
by President McGukin and Walter Knox was chosen toastmaster. It is needless to say that there were some late toasts
given. Also, plans were discussed of interest to Davidsonians, and especially to alumni. Roll call showed the following present: E.
B. McGukin, R. Bitzer, W. I. Knox, J. D. Knight, T. M. Lowry, P. D. Miller, P. H. McAlpine, D.
P. McGeachy, R. R. McIlwaine, T. H. Patterson, J. M. Richards, J. Sprunt, L. L. Wilkinson, J. C. Wool.

After a most enjoyable evening, the meeting drew to a close with songs of the class and Alma Mater. Regrets
are hereby extended to those members of the class who were unable to be present.

HERE AND THERE

J. M. Moore, '91, former president of Mitchell College, is now assisting in the $300,000 campaign for Davidson.

Rev. N. P. Walker, '92, pastor of the First Baptist Church at Danville, Ky., distinguished himself this summer by diving
in with all his clothes on to rescue a drowning boy.

"Johnnie" Richards, '20, is keeping books in Marion, S. C.

Dr. J. D. McDowell, '04, a practicing physician of York, S. C., spent the summer at Blowing Rock.

Kelly Walks In

A news item from Louisville, Ky., contains the following: "Among the new men in Louisville Seminary is Mr. Kelly G.
Tucker, who walked from Boston to Louisville to take courses in the Seminary and University of Louisville. Mr. Tucker is
22 years old; his home is in Waco, Texas, and he has been in the East engaged in social service
work. Capt. Chas. F. Huhlein, chairman of the Board of Public Safety of Louisville, expressed his admiration of Mr. Tucker
and has welcomed him officially to the city." Mr. Tucker is well remembered on the campus and it is sincerely
regretted by the students who know him that he is not to be with us this year to finish with
the class of '23.

Make November 18th Another Davidson Day in CHARLOTTE

Look Out

To Represent

Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company
Accident and Casualty Department
W. E. PRICE
General Agent
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
On the Square
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Not all athletic events scheduled can be played, but the anticipated income can be guaranteed by RAIN INSURANCE

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

A dry season is always followed by a period of wet.
