THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1922 | LITERARY NEWS

DELTA PI KAPPA ADDS R. R. JONES TO ROSTER

The Delta Pi Kappa fraternity met in its regular semi-monthly assembly in the Kappa Alpha hall last Friday night. At
this meeting R. R. Jones, who came to Davidson in 1920 and who has since worked untiringly for the interests
of The Davidsonian and other college publications, was elected to membership. He is now assignment editor of the paper. The
meeting took the form of a short business meeting at which general plans of the organization were discussed. At present,
however, these plans are not ready to be made public. The D. P. K. fraternity is striving for the best
interests of Davidson as far as her publications are concerned, and the student body looks on this organization as a
true product of a better Davidson.

EUMANEANS SELECT NEW TERM OFFICERS

The election of the second term officers in the Eumanean Literary Society was held Thursday evening, October 19. The officers
elected were as follows: President, D. H. Ogden; vice-president, L. D. Elkins; secretary, P. M. Patterson; reviewer, H. M. Morris.
All the new officers are men well known by the excellence of their work in the field of literary societies.
The president-elect, D. H. Ogden, '23, distinguished himself early in his career at Davidson, as both debater and declaimer. The
retiring officers are: President, W. T. Elliot; vice-president, J. I. Smith; secretary, J. R. Earnest; reviewer, D. H. Ogden.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON BIDS FOUR STUDENTS

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity held an interesting and very successful meeting on Friday night, October 18th. After a
short discussion of business, J. B. Sloan read an excellent paper on “The Calorific Values of Wood.” Following this was
a paper read by Prof. L. M. Currie on “The Process of Making Paper,” which dealt with this important industry
from the very beginning to the finished product. The Gamma Sigma Epsilon opened its doors to several of Davidson’s best
chemistry students when the following men were bid: W. M. Cox, G. M. Ford, S. C. Thames, and H. H.
Wyman.

METROPHILIAN WILL HAVE ANNUAL SPONSOR

The Metrophilian Society met on October 10th and followed the regular program. The devotional exercises were conducted by R. L.
Price. At this time it was decided that the society would have an annual sponsor and that each member would
be assessed to pay for the picture of the sponsor in the annual. The debate, Resolved, “That Delegates and Representatives
Should Obey the Instructions of Their Constituents,” was next in order and was discussed on the affirmative by G. M.
Hodgin and J. M. Carr and on the negative by W. M. Gracey and R. L. Price. Each member showed
that he had studied the subject well and delivered excellent speeches. The judges gave the decision to the negative. The
subject for the extemporaneous debate was, Resolved, “That each student of Davidson College should be required to read at least
five literary books during each semester.” It was discussed by E. C. Douglas on the affirmative, and P. C. Henderson
on the negative. Douglas brought out the fact that the average student does not get enough literary work from his
college course while Henderson said that the students’ time is too well taken up in other activities. The judges decided
this time in favor of the affirmative. An interesting declamation by A. Guiton and an inspirational oration by the president,
L. P. Burney, concluded the program.

LEAGUE OF NATIONS DISCUSSED BY PHIS

On account of the holiday Thursday, the attendance of the Phi Society was not as good as usual. Only one
man on the program was present, this was A. B. Williford, the first new man to speak in the Phi
Society. He gave a good declamation, knew his subject well, and delivered it in an exceptionally good manner. The president
appointed men on the debate, all of whom were Juniors and Seniors. The query for debate was the one chosen
for the Junior-Senior debate this fall. Resolved, “That the United States should enter the League of Nations.” Appointed on the
affirmative were R. H. Bown and F. S. Johnston. The supporters of the negative were W. P. Brown and P.
J. Story. The decision committee rendered a unanimous vote for the negative. The business session of the society was taken
up with suggestions and plans for heating the hall this winter. J. W. Baldwin and H. M. Wells were appointed
on a committee to investigate the situation and provide some means of heating the hall.

PANDEINIC SOCIETY HOLDS USUAL MEETING

The Pandeinic Society held its regular weekly meeting Tuesday night. The subject for debate was, Resolved, “That the privilege of
the people to recall their judges should be generally adopted in the United States.” Oeland and Gibbs upheld the affirmative,
in opposition to P. Steele and W. T. Baker on the negative. There was an abundance of good argument on
each side, but the judges decided in favor of the affirmative, two to one. H. H. Mauze delivered an oration
on “The Constitution of the United States,” in which he discussed some of the outstanding features of our constitution. A
declamation, “The Two Spies, Andre and Hale,” was given by S. W. Moore.

DRAMATIC CLUB GIVES INITIAL PERFORMANCE

The regular meeting of the Dramatic Club on last Friday night, was acknowledged by all to be the most successful
one ever held. The feature of the night was the presentation of a play, “Veterans,” written by Professor Erwin and
played by selected members of the club. It was by far the best and most pleasing piece of dramatic work
given by the club since its organization. Before the curtain was pulled Professor Erwin explained the reasons for the presentation
of the play, and the hopes of the club for the coming season. He spoke of the play as being
merely an experiment along lines of scenic effects and lighting. The audience was requested to look upon the play in
the attitude of a critic, the purpose being to point out defects and make suggestions. After these explanations by Professor
Erwin, the play was presented. The work of Ellis Woolfolk as Uncle Sid was the outstanding feature of the play.
The part of Mary Belle was excellently portrayed by Miss Frances Johnston, one of our co-eds this year. Harry Russell,
as Lon Harbison; Peggy Martin, as Plato, and Wallace Moore, as Finley, all acted their parts well and deserve much
praise.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT TO PICK VARSITY MEN

Thirty-two men signed up for the tennis tournament which made it possible for Hugh Bradley, captain of the team this
year, and state champion last year, to arrange a perfect schedule of matches, which schedule has two subdivisions: a lower,
and an upper bracket. In the upper bracket there are four main aspirants for tennis honors who will furnish plenty
of competition before the supremacy of this division is decided. Namely, Harry Price, Chink Woods, Fraser and Mac Beall, with
Price having a slight edge on the others. Already these men, in eliminating slightly weaker opponents, have shown some real
class, and some splendid matches have been played. In the lower bracket, the indications seem to point to the playing
off of even more exciting matches than those promised in the upper bracket. Bill Murray is proving himself real varsity
material, and handles the old racket like a second Tilden. T. F. Staley is showing his old-time form. Due to
a charley-horse, however, he has been handicapped somewhat, but that is a thing of the past now, and Staley’s racket
may well be feared by all from now on. Jimmie Trotter is another racketeer showing up well, while the old
reliable Henry Morris and Vic Brown continue to show their skill at the game as they rapidly hew down all
opponents. Before the championship of this tournament is decided, some royal battles will have been fought. There are three places
on the tennis team to be filled this year, and this tournament will be a large factor in the picking
of these three men. For this reason the excitement in each match is intense, and every game has its thrills.
Come out and boost your favorite to win!

NAPPY AND GIG STAR IN RECENT PRODUCTION

Sprunt Field was the scene of a spectacular movie on last Thursday afternoon. Gig Shepherd and Nappy Davis were the
stars, and the thing came off in fine style. The only regret is that the camera man failed to be
on hand. Nappy and Gighad seen how Valentino, Wallace Reid, and others pulled off the heroic stuff, so they decided
that those birds didn’t have a thing on them. They arranged to pull off one of those slow-motion movies to
show how much better they were than “Red” Roberts, Jim Thorpe, and all the other guys who ever attempted to
play football. The first scene was to be a forward pass. The ball was passed to Gig, who speedily yet
slowly raised the ball in perfect form and shot it in the direction of Nappy, who was making long strides
slowly down the field. Nappy was truly the star in this feature production. With arms outstretched to grasp the whirling
pigskin and head poised in perfect form, eyes on the ball, he watched its approach unmindful of any foe who
might be near. But the unexpected happened. Just as the noble Nappy drew his arms in to capture the ball,
they were clasped around, not a football, but something human, something real! The final close-up showed Nappy grasping someone around
the neck, a divine smile upon his face gazing into the dancing, joyous eyes of Coach Grey.

PURPOSE OF NEW DITCH SYSTEM IS REVEALED

The system of irrigation canals which has recently enmeshed the campus has proven a remarkable success and an everlasting monument
to its originator. In its primary function to convey all available water from the four corners of the campus to
the laundry for Mr. Helper to use in his garmentary toning bath, it has shown its adequacy. The uniformity of
hue of garments returning from the laundry is decidedly more marked than formerly. These ditches not only regulate the flow
of water upon the campus, but to a large measure the flow of profanity. In rainy weather, many students on
nocturnal excursions between remote buildings on the campus have been checked abruptly in their extravagant outpouring of execrations against the
inclemency of the weather by a unanimous descent of all their members confusedly into one of these trenches. The individual
is usually so overcome with his good fortune in being precipitated into a comfortable tarn of muddy liquefaction, rather than
upon jagged rocks and grievous projections, that his blasphemy of the elements spontaneously changes to a song of praise and
deliverance.

DEVEREUX COMPANY SOON TO PRESENT ROMEO AND JULIET

Play Will Be Given on November 4th

The Clifford Devereux Company of Artists will present Romeo and Juliet at Shearer Hall on November 4th. Mr. Devereux is
now on his eighth annual tour and is playing the classics which have taken a place among the finest of
the world’s literature. In presenting these plays, Mr. Devereux has sought to place them in their right atmosphere and to
give them the fine interpretation they deserve. Many people have read and studied them in school or college, but they
can never be so appreciated as they will be after Mr. Devereux’s production of them has been witnessed. It is
with lofty ideals, a wide outlook, a deep understanding, and a sympathetic insight that he has approached these masters, and
taken from them all their richness, their unfathomable cleverness, their scintillating brilliance, and their unmatched genius. The qualities of the
plays are made apparent and all their phases revealed through methods of unassailable reasonableness and convincing authority.

The highest recognition has been accorded the Clifford Devereux Company for their unique and artistic work, as is evidenced by
their frequent engagements at Columbia University, University of Virginia, University of West Virginia, University of Georgia, University of Tennessee, University
of Texas, University of Wisconsin, and at the leading colleges in the country, including Vassar, Penn State College, and many
others.

FRESHMEN DEFEATED BY SENIORS, 13 TO 12

The famous old class of ’23 has started off this season in the court game in the same fine style
as they wound up the class series last year. In their first game, the Fresh were defeated, 13 to 12.
The same old fight and pep were present which enabled them to carry off championship honors last year. The Freshmen
showed unusual strength and led the upperclassmen through a big part of the contest, but just before the final whistle,
the Seniors forged ahead by one lone point. It was a beautiful game throughout; close, fast, hard-fought, and exciting. At
no time did either team lead the other by anything more than a few points. The Fresh led at the
close of the first half, 7 to 4. Most of the points of the evening were made from the free-throw
line. A large crowd was present to witness the scrap. The men who looked best for the Seniors were Toney
and Mauze, while Davis, Caddell, and Bachman showed the best stuff for the new men. Following is the line-up:

SENIORS (13) FRESH (12)
Position
Richards (0) Bachman (8) Right Forward
Bradley (1) Lindley (0) Left Forward
Speir (0) Caddell (4) Right Guard
Davis (0) Left Guard

Substitutions—Hunter for Lindley, Oden for Speir. Seniors—Elliott for Richards, Streibeck for Elliott, Alexander for Bradley, Bostick for Alexander, Calhoun for
Bostick. Referee—Beall.

DENGUE FEVER

This fever was formerly considered a tropical disease, but it is now epidemic in the Southern States, though mostly on
the coastal plains. It is transmitted by the bite of the mosquito (Culex fatigans), but the organism in the blood
has not been found by microscopic observation. The fever comes on four days after the mosquito bite and is characterized
by severe pains in all the bones and joints, hence its name “break-bone fever.” An attack lasts about four days,
and while it is seldom a fatal disease, the convalescence is slow and it may take several weeks before the
patient recovers his accustomed strength. The treatment is mainly symptomatic and so far no satisfactory remedy has been found.

THOMAS MEIGHAN SEEN IN GOOD PHOTOPLAY

Thomas Meighan, supported by Leatrice Joy and Lois Wilson, appeared here Saturday night in the photoplay, “Manslaughter.” Thomas Meighan, as
Daniel J. O’Bannon, district attorney, was much in love with Lydia Thorne, played by Leatrice Joy, who was heiress to
a large fortune. O’Bannon deplored the condition of the modern dissipation at the parties given by Lydia. Lydia’s maid, Evans,
played by Lois Wilson, needed money to send her sick child to California, as the doctor said that only in
a warm climate was there any hope of his recovery. In her despair to get the money, she sold a
ring belonging to her mistress. She was caught and tried, and as Lydia failed to appear at the trial to
plead clemency, Evans was sent to prison. Lydia felt sorry for her maid, so she sent her little boy to
California. Lydia was very fond of speeding and was overtaken by a speed cop. She got away from him the
first time by dropping a very expensive bracelet into his hands. The second time, in her effort to elude him,
she turned a sharp corner, the officer ran into her car and was so seriously injured that he died. Lydia’s
friends did all they could to keep her out of court and even went so far as to try to
bribe the district attorney. O’Bannon, however, was determined to do his duty at any cost and he retained his reputation
of having never lost a case. Lydia was convicted of manslaughter and served three years in prison. Here she met
her maid, Evans, who soon forgave her mistress for the way she had been treated. As the three years spent
in prison by Lydia were her making, so they were the undoing of O’Bannon. He resigned from the office of
district attorney and resorted to whiskey in order to forget. After being released from prison, Lydia was indeed a different
woman. One night when she and Evans were serving free coffee in the slum district, she happened to look into
the face of one of the men asking for his supper—it was O’Bannon. From that night on, O’Bannon fought his
battle alone and the time came when on the eve of his election as governor he withdrew his candidacy because
an ex-convict could not be mistress of the governor’s mansion and because his love for Lydia far exceeded his desire
to become governor.

Bill Lavill made some run, but hats off to the whole team. IF EVERY MAN on the team had not
done double his share, we would never have held V. P. I. to a tie.

We will have a man on the campus Monday with the best merchandise at reasonable prices. SEE E. T. WOOLFOLK,
GEORGIA, No. 5, OUR REPRESENTATIVE. 24 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N.C. Clothing and Furnishings for Young Men.
