THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1922

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. Whitaker, who had the misfortune of a bad fall a few days ago, has recovered.

Mrs. H. C. Bedinger, of Atlanta, Ga., visited in the home of Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin last week.

Prof. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas accompanied the team to Atlanta on the occasion of the Tech game.

Dr. J. W. McConnell is out again after a short illness.

Mrs. R. D. Bedinger, of Balfour, N. C., is on an extended visit to her sister, Mrs. E. J. Erwin.

Miss Cornelia Shaw spent last Saturday in Charlotte with her sister, Mrs. A. R. Shaw, who is ill at the
Presbyterian hospital.

Mrs. Hengeveld and little daughter, Miss Virginia, arrived last week from Waycross, Ga. The Hengevelds will occupy the Pettingill home
this winter.

The Thelemite Club met Friday evening with Mesdames Fleague and Hearn, at the home of the latter. Doctor Porter gave
an interesting talk on The Earth in the Making, and Dr. J. W. McConnell on The Present Situation of Turkey.
Messrs. Elkins, Earnest, and Crane furnished delightful music.

Miss Charlotte Cranford, of Asheville, spent the weekend with her parents.

Mr. F. L. Jackson has been absent for the week, visiting the Synod of Georgia.

Miss Shive, of Tallahassee, Fla., is spending several days in Davidson in interest of the Stoddard lectures.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

After Every

Prof. E. J. Erwin spoke on The One-Act Play to the Woman’s Book Club of Charlotte, last week.

Doctor Hood spoke last Sunday in Burlington, organizing the Davidson campaign.

Miss Lizzie Young was hostess to the Book Lover’s Club on Friday evening. On this occasion Doctor Harding lectured on
Greek Art.

On Friday evening Mrs. Hurd entertained a few friends in honor of Mrs. Price, mother of R. L. Price, '24.

Mr. Ralph Shewmake, who has been spending several weeks in Asheville, arrived home last Wednesday.

Mr. and Mrs. John Allison, of Concord, were here on Thursday. Mr. Allison is a member of the college executive
committee.

Mrs. Price and daughter, of Charlotte, were weekend guests at the Hurd home.

Rev. and Mrs. R. A. White, of Mooresville, were visitors in town last Wednesday.

Mr. Frye’s attractive residence on North Main Street has been completed and his family have moved here from Mooresville.

The weekend guests of the Misses Young were Mr. and Mrs. Erwin Graham, of Charlotte.

Miss Ellen Gordon, sister of Mr. Robert Gordon, of Davidson, has been spending the weekend with Miss Dorothy Finlayson.

Miss Grace James, of Rock Hill, spent the weekend in Davidson.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Foreman, of Charlotte, spent Sunday with Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Foreman.

Miss Ruth Henderson, who has been teaching school at Mt. Mourne, spent the weekend with home folks.

EVERETT BISHOP

Everett Bishop, baritone, Davidson alumnus, will give a song recital in Shearer Hall on the evening of Thursday, November 9th,
under the auspices of the Davidson College magazine.

Mr. Bishop began the study of music when he was but six years old, playing first the piano and then
the violin. In the fall of 1908, he entered Davidson and played violin in the orchestra and also sang in
the Glee Club. In his second year, he was made leader of the orchestra, which position he held for four
years. He was director of both the orchestra and Glee Club. When he finished Davidson, he entered the University of
Maryland and took his M.D. degree in 1916. His concerts and activities have been very prominent in the East and
Middle West. Last spring, he had 25 recitals in Maine alone, where he was proclaimed a superb artist, with a
magnificent voice of wide range, remarkable in richness and color. His presentation of every song was a masterpiece. His diction
is of the most finished and cultured.

PROFESSOR WAGNER COMES TO DAVIDSON

For many years, Davidson has felt the need of a man to furnish expert assistance in speaking activities. After a
long search, the faculty was finally able to secure the services of Prof. Russell H. Wagner to fill this position.

Professor Wagner is a graduate of Monmouth College, Ill., and a postgraduate student of Cornell University. For the past several
years, he has had considerable experience, teaching both public speaking and English at Adrian College, Michigan. He comes to Davidson
highly recommended and indeed, has already won for himself a prominent place in college life.

The greatest need which Professor Wagner will fill is in the role of expert adviser and helper to the literary
societies. A man of ability has long been needed in this line and Professor Wagner is rapidly filling that need.
Then, too, he will train the men who represent Davidson in any debating or oratorical contest. In addition to his
work with the literary societies, Professor Wagner is giving a one-hour course in public speaking to all Freshmen and has
also provided a more intensive three-hour elective course in public speaking and debate for Juniors and Seniors.

Since his arrival, Professor Wagner has shown himself fully capable of caring for his public speaking work, both in the
literary society and the classroom, and it is with greatest pleasure that the student body welcomes him to Davidson.STUDENTS (Continued
from Page One)

The whole affair was turned over to the students, with G. B. Sorrells, the campus chairman, presiding. While the classes
were preparing their reports, Mr. Jackson gave the students an idea of the plan of the new building, while the
special issue of The Davidsonian, with the picture of Chambers-to-be in it, was handed out. When Mr. Jackson had finished,
Doctor Martin read telegrams from 10 or more colleges expressing the hope that the campaign would be a success. The
one from Converse seemed to be especially pleasing. When the pep had quieted down, the reports were turned in, and
Mr. Jackson, operating the adding machine, announced a total of more than $27,500, including the faculty subscriptions at that time.
Without them, however, the student body alone exceeded the quota.

With the announcements finished, Mr. Lockhart said that in all the campaigns that he had conducted, he had never seen
such a spirit of grim determination to “put it over” anywhere. When seen Saturday night on the campus, he said
that the spirit in which it was done would help the whole campaign far more than the mere amount subscribed.
He was very enthusiastic as to the outcome of the whole campaign. To date, $120,000 has been subscribed, and the
campaign has only begun. As is generally known, the plan of the committee is to raise $200,000 from the churches
of North Carolina, $200,000 from the alumni, $100,000 from Charlotte, and $100,000 from other sources. The campaign in Charlotte will
be conducted between November 4th and 18th. The subscriptions from the Davidson church and townspeople, aside from the faculty and
students, will not be included in the campus campaign. They will go as part of the Concord Presbytery.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

The army gave the Wesleyans Saturday— Remember V. P. I. and fight ‘em, team.

FIVE-DOORS ABOVE THE BANK: “Prices you can afford to pay”

Gentlemen: Next time you are planning a feed come down and see me. Remember, I'm waiting and will expect you.
But you'll say, "Why?" Well, let's see: I've the finest stock of eats in town and they are kept on
the cleanest shelves. You will just naturally like to eat them—clean and fresh. One thing more: I sell more eats
than anybody else in town and so I can sell lower. Just try me once and you'll be convinced. Let's
see: Heinz pickles and ketchups, Mrs. Duke's mayonnaise, bulk pickles, bread, sandwich fillers, and just about anything else you might
want. I'll expect you, Mr. Stewart, Groceries.

SORE MUSCLES

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

In a hard-fought game, Davidson lost to V. P. I. last Saturday by the score of 13 to 7. From
the very beginning, the game was exciting, and not until the end was victory certain to either side. In the
fourth quarter, with the score 7 to 6 in favor of Davidson, and but three minutes to play, luck broke
against Davidson just as it has several times this season. A Davidson player fumbled the ball on his 15-yard line
and Roden, of V. P. I., recovered. But for this mishap, the result would no doubt have been different.

Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief. Over
17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE

The annual celebration of Davidson College Day, on Thursday, October 25, will be featured by an address by Governor T.
W. Bickett. In a resume of their football schedule, the V. P. I. college paper says this of the Davidson
team: “One of our games is with Davidson. This will be one of the biggest games V. P. I. has
ever played, for Davidson has one of the strongest teams in the South.”

CLAUDE LEE, Manager

THURSDAY, 26th FRIDAY, 27th SATURDAY, 28th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA G. Shulze, Director

Overture—"The Eagle's Nest" PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY

Academy Orchestra Selection—"Follies 1922" Fox Trot—"My Dixie"

Dr. J. M. McConnell lectured to the student body during the vacant period from 11 to 11:50 o’clock Thursday on
the subject, Why the United States Went to War With Germany.

IKEYS AND IZZIES TAKE HILL BY STORM

The Davidson campus has been subject to an invasion of salesmen this fall. They have been of every species from
haberdashers to photographers, and from all outward appearances they must have had great success as new houndish suits, hats, etc.,
are constantly seen attached to Davidsonians. One Charlotte firm pulled a big coup when it landed the order for the
Seniors’ derbies, and another Charlotte man is competing with White’s studio, and it is said that he has landed many
orders. A clothing concern of Statesville is on the hill every Wednesday, making the Hugh-Ikey joint their head-quarters. It would
no doubt be profitable for members of the salesmen’s club to look these fellows over and learn a brand new
line.

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS PIANOS Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT 16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

THE BELLDAYS—Mabel and Billy In A Screaming Comedy Creation “She Falls for Him”

PHIL DAVIS “The Smoke Orator”

GEORGE KALALUHI’S HAWAIIANS and DORE, the Tropical Beach Duo In “A Night in Hawaii”

Make Your Seat Reservations Now
