THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922 | DAVIDSON -

MEN THINK ABOUT THIS!
When you buy your athletic equipment from us a substantial part of the profit accrues to the Athletic Association. Our
lines are complete and our prices are right. Service for our mutual advantage.
The Commissary
CHARLOTTE, N. W. Z.

BRADFORD 27 RUMPLE

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

LIGHT RED AND BLACK
(Continued from Page Two)

Hunt bucked out of bounds for no gain. Laird punted 35 yards to Harris who returned 12. Tech’s ball on
Davidson’s 32-yard line. McWhorter made five yards through center. Mallory replaced Faison on end. Murphy got three over left tackle.
Murphy got one over right tackle. Fourth down and one to go. McWhorter made one yard over right tackle for
a first down. Ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line. McWhorter hit center for no gain. Harris got three yards at left
tackle. Harris got two over center. Fourth down and five to go. McWhorter failed on a drop kick from the
25-yard line. Davidson’s ball on her own 20-yard line. Moore got two yards over right tackle. Laird gained four yards
over the same place. Hunt failed over right guard. A forward pass was grounded. Fourth down and the ball went
over. Tech’s ball on Davidson’s 27-yard line. Harris failed around right end. McWhorter got nine yards through left tackle. Time
out for Tech. Carpenter replaces Borum for Tech. Martin replaces Hendrix for Davidson. Murphy hit center for two yards and
a first down. Harris failed to gain around left end. McWhorter failed to gain over right tackle. McWhorter was thrown
for a three-yard loss. Murphy failed on a drop kick from the 25-yard line. Davidson’s ball on her own 20-yard
line. Hunt smashed through right tackle for two yards. Laird added two yards over the same place. Martin punted 35
yards to Harris who returned five. Tech’s ball on her own 44-yard line. A forward pass was incomplete. Carter got
six yards over right guard. Murphy gained two over left guard and the game ended, Tech's ball on Davidson's 48-yard
line. Tech, 19; Davidson, 0.

DAVIDSON Score—GA. TECH

Position DAVIDSON
J. Staton Left End
Johnson Left Tackle
McIntyre Left Guard
Frye Center
C. Davis Right Guard
S. Davis Right Tackle
Mitchell Right End
McDonough Quarter
Barron Left Half
Rather Right Half
Hunt Fullback

Referee—Elock (Dartmouth); Umpire—Springer (Penn State); Head Linesman—Powell (Wisconsin).

Score by periods:
DAVIDSON 0 0 0 0—0
TECH 12 7 0 0—19

Touchdowns—Barron (2), Hunt.
Field goal after touchdown—Rather.

Substitutions—Davidson: Laird for Shepherd, Summers for Fields, Sorrells for Clark, McLaurin for Martin, Long for Brice, Hendrix for Martin, Mallory
for Faison, Martin for Hendrix. Tech: Harris for McDonough, Godwin for Hunt, Murphy for Barron, McWhorter for Rather, Granger for
Mitchell, Lyman for Johnson, Mabelle for J. Staton, J. Staton for Frye, Cornell for A. Staton, McBryde for McIntyre, Carpenter
for Borum, Borum for Davis, Carter for Godwin.

TOWN NEWS
Mrs. E. B. Crow, of Raleigh, mother of E. B. Crow, Jr., ’25, was a visitor at the home of
Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie. Mr. J. R. Jones, ’22, of Salisbury, spent the week-end on the Hill renewing old
friendships. The Misses Shumaker were visitors in Charlotte the first part of the week. Miss Jenkins, of the faculty of
the Huntersville High School, was a week-end visitor with friends last week. The many friends of Mr. Sam Tompson, ’05,
will be glad to know he has recovered from his recent illness. Miss Katherine Porter was at the infirmary last
week, following a tonsil operation. The town and campus are very much interested this week in the results of the
election on the 11th on the question of lights and water for the village. Mrs. A. A. McGeachy was the
guest of her father and mother last week, Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding. W. T. Baker suffered slight injuries
last week when he ran into another player during a game of basketball. As a result he spent several days
atthe infirmary. The next meeting of the Civic League will be at 4 o’clock Tuesday afternoon in the League Hall.
The dedicatory services of the Woman’s building at the Barium Springs Orphanage Friday attracted a large number of Davidson ladies.
Among them were Lizzie Young, Mary Young, Shelton, Bona Potts, and Mesdames Goodrum, Arbuckle, Henderson, A. Currie, Jetton, Withers, Justice,
Lingle, Hamilton, Erwin, and Grey. Misses The football game between Davidson and Mooresville Highs was largely attended by enthusiastic Mooresville
supporters. Miss Dorothy Finlayson attended the wedding of her sister, Miss Mary Finlayson, which was solemnized in the First Presbyterian
Church, Lumberton, last Saturday. Many interested friends will be pleased to know that on Rally Day the attendance at the
little Davidson Chapel was 93, the largest attendance in her history. The children of the Sunday School presented a most
entertaining program. The next regular meeting of the Book Lovers Club will be with Mrs. Hattie Thompson on next Tuesday
evening. An unusually interesting monthly session of the Auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church was held Thursday afternoon in the church
parlors. Lieutenant Woodrow Clarke is the guest of Mr. and Mrs. Thies. Doctor Thompson, pastor of the Hawthorne Lane M.
E. Church, Charlotte, was the speaker at the union services held Sunday evening in the Chautauqua tent. He preached a
powerful and convincing sermon to an audience which far exceeded the capacity of the tent. At the end of the
service, a large number of professions of faith and also a number of reconsecrations were made. Doctor Thompson is very
popular at Davidson.

"Prices you can afford to pay"

Gentlemen:

It has started to rain — looks like it doesn't intend to stop anytime soon. Rain means muddy walks and
muddy walks mean wet shoes. The result, wet feet and a real old-fashioned cold. Prepare yourself: We have just received
a complete line of rubbers - the old reliable "Ball" brand - in light and heavy weights. Take my advice
and buy a heavy weight; the first cost is slightly higher but it will wear twice as long. And while
we are on the subject I might say that our raincoats are very moderately priced.

Sincerely yours,
Mr. Fidler, Furnishings

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

SORE MUSCLES spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

Georgia Tech Wins by Score of 32 to 10

The perfect record that Georgia Tech has enjoyed so far this season was spoiled last Saturday when Buck Flowers dropped
the ball through the goal posts from Tech’s 28-yard line and George King carried the ball across the goal line
that has not been crossed this season. Although Davidson suffered defeat, it was not the team’s fault, for they put
up a fight that made the 1916 Southern champions open their eyes and begin to entertain a doubt of their
victory.

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE
CLAUDE LEE, Manager

Cartoon on the front page of this issue of The Davidsonian represents the Kaiser as reading a bulletin that says:
“Davidson College Has Begun Military Training.” With his hair standing on end, His Imperial Majesty exclaims: “Mein Gott! I’m ruined!”

THURSDAY, 12th
FRIDAY, 13th
SATURDAY, 14th

THE WOES ARTS ORCHESTRA
Hulze, Director
Overture—“Popular Gems”
PATHE NEWS AND PLEASING COMEDY

Shall We Have Meatless Days?

Dr. Martin spoke in Chapel last Monday morning concerning the observation of Hoover's plan of having a meatless day each
week. Immediately one boarding house adopted the plan of having one meatless meal each day. No doubt the others will
soon follow.

Academy Orchestra Selection—“Good Morning, Dearie”
Fox-Trot—“Stuttering”

LALLA SELBINI AND BERT ALBERT
Present one mute LALL and the Cat

ARTHUR LLOYD
Humorous Card Index

QUINN BROTHERS AND SMITH
In the Corner Comedy of the Street

Shot Dr. Sentelle (in Bible) — What is the canon?
SHARKEY, ROTH AND HEWITT
A Triple Alliance of Song, Dance, and Fun

Fresh—Canon? er, a cannon is a hole with brass poured all around it.

ETHEL GILMORE AND GIRLS
In “A Dance Interlude”
A Company of Superb Dancing Girls

“Come, sir,” said the teacher to the boy at the foot of the class, “how do you pronounce ‘s-t-i-n-g-y’?” The
boy at the foot answered thoughtfully, “It depends on whether the word is applied to a human being or a
bee.”—Kind Words.

DAVIDSON NIGHT
Saturday, October 14, 9:00 o'clock performance. Get tickets right on the campus from Bradford and Jones.

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
PIANOS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE
