THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1922

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE
CLAUDE LEE, Manager

THURSDAY, 14th
FRIDAY, 15th
SATURDAY, 16th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director

“Pique Dame”
“The Girl Behind the Gun”
“Cow Bells”

PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY

Attraction Extraordinary
FLORRIE MILLERSHIP
A Star Followed by the Mariner of Merriment
Wally Bradley
And Both Guided by Their “Bands of Joy”

Added Attraction
DENNO SISTERS
TOM THIBAULT and ART CODY
In “Terpsichore Gone Mad”

Special Feature
Johnny Rosamond
BELL and CARON
In “Bits of Variety”

MISS BOBBIE GORDON
Sculptress and Artist's Model in Character Studies of Old Masters

FOLLETTE, PEARL and WICKS
“The Coal Driver”

Make Your Seat Reservations Now

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

After Every: Flavor: Lasts: All But the Shoutin’

To cut a long story short, the fire's all gone but old man Memory sure does work wonders. By actual
computation of the 550 boys registered, 400 of them fell in love during Senior Speaking. It's too near Christmas to
indulge in that love-game affair. Still, we did have gobs and gobs of fire, didn't we?

Nose Warmers
Cigarette holders, black ebony ones, or doggy ones, are barred from Mr. Davidson's College. It is only fair to warn
prospective givers of gifts to students of this college, that cigarette holders are persona non grata as gifts this Christmas.
Any blind man on the campus will tell you there is a plaque of them already. Look at Bob McLeod’s
and see for yourself.

Presents That Are Sure to Please and Bring Results
For Mother—Parcel post rates.
For Father—Check book cover. Fountain pen. A book—"The Cheerful Giver.”
For Older Brother—Cigarettes—the kind you prefer.
For Older Sister—If she is at school, your picture. If too old, or feeble for school—cook book—"Cake and Candy Recipes.”
For Kid Brother—Game—"Silence.” For Kid Brother—Last year’s Fresh cap.
For Your Roommate—A hat, like the one of yours that he borrows. Also carrying case, for candy, etc.
For Her—Hair nets.
For Everyone else—Here's one from one of our train nurses over in the Hornet City.

Ed Fewell, '23, because of long and faithful service, has been promoted from general supervisor of the first floor of
Charlotte Sanatorium to superintendent of the nurse's home.

Archie Keels seems to think some girls are queer creatures, but he always manages to win them by being so
very affectionate.

As the vacation draws near, the Parcher wishes to give its discourse to Freshmen on Christmas.
1—Treat the family decently the first evening. You probably won't see them again until after first term exams.
2—Dress in the latest style: angora socks, Persian rag muffler, creased shoes, penitentiary stripe tie, and let one-eyed escape from
the hat—you might see something worthwhile.
3—Let it go around that you “have lived.” Speak knowingly of Queens and casually mention that you've sworn off of
Volstead until June.
4—Be sure to tell her all about the football team and your personal conversation with the coach and captain before
the V. P. I. game.
5—Neck every chance you get. No garters. If the girl protests, tell her you forgot she wasn’t used to college
men.
6—At the dinner party start up all the risque songs you learned at college.
7—Catch the last train back to Davidson and spend the first week recuperating.
8—Be sure and tell all your chance acquaintances how the women fell for you and how many parties on which
you were the guest of honor.

Too Bad
The weather last week was pretty bad. We don’t know whether it was Monday or Tuesday, but it was pretty
bad. Sometimes it is pretty bad and again it is pretty bad. Usually it is pretty bad.

He’s From Savannah
Bill Baker, after a Sunday tour of the wilds of Mt. Mourne and Beatty’s Ford, reports: Last Sunday the school
minister announced that the drive to aid the crippled caterpillars of Crimea netted $33.33 and one leather button. Doctor McGroof,
of Kalamazoo College, was the preacher. His text was, “Rend your hearts, and not your garments.”

Library News
The following is a list of the new library periodicals:
FOR SOPHS ONLY—The Youth's Companion, St. Nicholas, The Boy's Magazine, How to Behave by Harry K. Thaw; The Valueless Value
of Being a Sophomore, by Mickey McCoy.

Merry Christmas
Real seriously, the Parcher wishes every student a very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Come back after the
vacation determined to make better grades by lesser work. Here's hoping Santa Claus will be good to you and not
like the girl who asked Santa to fill her stocking and he did. He brought her a lead pencil.

CHRISTMAS ABSENCE REGULATIONS ISSUED
The faculty has decided to eliminate the usual drifting away from college several days previous to the holidays allowed for
Christmas. It has been the practice heretofore for the boys to begin to leave the hill any time during the
week preceding the regular holidays. However, this year only those who have been regular in attendance, or those who are
excused because of sickness, willbe allowed to leave before the holidays begin. The executive committee has decided that no excuses
from home will be honored for absences prior to the last period on Wednesday, December 20th. All absences previous to
that time will be recorded as unexcused absences and will follow the route of unexcused absences as is prescribed in
the regular absence regulations of the college. There is to be but one way to have absences excused and that
is by the permission of Doctor MacConnell. Sickness is the only excuse that will be accepted under any circumstances. This
rule has been passed to prevent those who have been irregular during the fall term from piling up their unexcused
absences by leaving before the regular holidays start. This year, too, everybody will have to come back on the day
set, for these regulations hold good for the days following the holidays, as well as those preceding them. The day
set to return to work is Wednesday, January 3, 1923.

HEATING SYSTEM WORKS LIKE BRAND NEW FORD

After days of weary toil and fatiguing concentration, it has been ascertained by certain industrious and curious persons that the
primary cause of all the open windows upon the campus can at least be laid at the door of the
new distributor of that phase of physics which the professors are wont to call a form of energy consisting of
molecular motion. These aforementioned persons deserve all credit possible for their investigation and analysis of such an interesting situation. There
are many and various kinds of sensations, but the greatest one experienced in the history of dormitory life is that
of twisting the steam valve handle and hearing the rush of energy as it writhes and rumbles in the radiator.
Yea, truly, there is no more pleasing sensation to the minds of many. It carries one back to those good
old days when one could prop his number tens up in front of the best grate in Chambers and look
anyone square in the face and say “bring ‘em on.” It is with the greatest and deepest sorrow on the
part of the worshippers at the Shrine of the Radiator that the venerable old distributor has had to give way
to the new, but such is life. Soon their sorrows will be forgotten and they will revel in the joys
of this efficient stranger in our midst which is serving its worshippers in such a laudable manner. It is to
be hoped that all mechanical servants of the college will perform their respective duties in as efficient a manner and
with as much apparent ease as the new plant has done since its installation. Gurgle on, radiator, gurgle on.

THE TALE OF A TRAIL

Bill—Say, where's the poem?
Mack—Don't know.
Bill—What do you know?
Mack—Everything I don't know.
Bill—That’s everything.
Mack—So.
Bill—Even so.
Mack—I'll say that Mellon has the Christmas gift for Dad, and Brother Joe and Friend Spoofy.
Bill—And we'll let it go at that.
Both of them—Merry Christmas and Happy New Year.
Mack—(He can't resist the temptation) “Home, sweet, sweet home——"
Bill—Can it.—(adv.) (To be continued next week.)

CHERO-COLA GRAPE-MELO ORANGE-MELO ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

SORE MUSCLES

Safest

Salesgirl (to inebriate)—Could I interest you in a bathing suit?
Inebriate—S'mother tyme, that’s my wife over at the ribbon counter.—Burr.

Personal

A MERRY DRAMA

In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial;
in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

We carry a complete line of PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Candies, Stationery and VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
PIANOS

Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

Furnish Fraternity
