DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Today—1 Page Vol. 1, No. 1

DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 7, 1922

FOUNDED, 1922

Presson Motor Company
Authorized Ford Dealer
LINCOLN FORD FORDSON
DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHITE and GRAHAM
Fresh Meats
Chickens
Eggs
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Civic League Gives Unique Bazaar

A worthy event in the club circles of Davidson took place Tuesday afternoon, December 5th, in the Presson garage. This
was the Civic League bazaar, which attracted so many Davidson folks. From 3 to 6 o'clock, the bazaar held full
sway. Mrs. Wiggs in the Cabbage Patch was there dispensing cabbages at 10 cents each. There was a Japanese booth,
a needle-work booth, and among others, a booth loaded with cakes, candies, and all good things to eat. There was
also the Tea Garden, the Gypsy Fortune Teller, and other notable things and persons.

Red Cross to Present Plays

Two short one-act plays for the benefit of the Red Cross will be given Friday night in Shearer Hall at
8 o'clock. The name of the first being “Joint Owners in Spain.” The actors are Misses Johnsie Shelton, Ruth Henderson,
Jessamine Brown, and Margaret Adams. The second play is entitled “The Neighbors.” The cast is composed of Mrs. Sam Presson,
Misses Jean Martin, Mary Black, Jessamine Brown, Mrs. J. W. Whitener, and Messrs. H. K. Russell and M. P. Calhoun.
Mrs. Russell H. Wagner is director. All the students and townspeople are invited to attend. It is believed that the
plays will surpass any of its nature given by local talent in a long time.

Funeral Services for Miss Houston Held

The town of Davidson was shocked last Monday to hear of the death of Miss Myrtle Houston. Miss Houston died
Monday at Black Mountain, and the remains were brought to Davidson Wednesday morning. The funeral services were conducted at the
home of her aunt, Mrs. L. Rock Brady, on Wednesday morning at 11 o'clock. Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of
the Presbyterian Church, performed the last sad rites. Miss Houston was 29 years of age, and the daughter of the
late Dr. E. I. and Lillie Brady Houston. Doctor Houston was professor of chemistry at Davidson College for a while.
Miss Houston had been in declining health for several months. Surviving her are two sisters, Mrs. J. D. Ford, of
Statesville, and Miss Floss Houston, of Charlotte, an aunt, Mrs. L. R. Brady, of Davidson, and other relatives, besides a
host of friends. The remains were laid to rest in the beautiful Davidson cemetery beside her father. The new-made mound
was literally covered with flowers, showing the esteem and love in which Miss Houston was held. The entire community extends
its heartfelt sympathy to the relatives in this their sad hour. The pallbearers were Messrs. Cloyd Goodrum, James Blue, Lloyd
Christenbery, Harry Caldwell, Cloyd Potts, and R. J. Shelton.

Mrs. Hannah Entertains Missionary Society

One of the most enjoyable meetings of the year of the Ladies Missionary Society of the Methodist Church was given
at the home of Mrs. Lester Hannah last Thursday evening. After the business meeting, an interesting program was given. Every
member was very interested in the work the society is doing. Delicious refreshments of cake and hot chocolate brought this
successful social affair to a close.

Dr. and Mrs. Lingle in Auto Accident

While Dr. and Mrs. Thos. W. Lingle were returning from Wilmington Saturday night, they happened to collide with another auto.
Doctor Lingle received slight bruises, cutting his hands and being shaken up somewhat. Mrs. Lingle’s foot was mashed. She was
taken to the infirmary in Salisbury where she is now convalescent. Her many friends hope that the injury will not
be serious and that she will soon beHome again and recovered from the shock and injuries.

Church Organized at Brawley's

One of the most interesting things that happened last week was the organization of a church at Brawley's. This is
a mission school which has been under the supervision of the Y.M.C.A. Among those who were at this impressive ceremony
were Dr. W. A. Grey, Doctor Arbuckle, and Major Hearn.

FRESH TEAM DEFEATS CLEMSON FRESH, 20-7

By playing rings around and overrunning Clemson, 20-7, the Wildcat Freshmen closed their 1922 schedule with a blaze of glory
at the South Carolina Agriculture College on Turkey Day. This victory brought to a successful close the first schedule that
the Davidson Fresh have ever attempted, a summary of the past season revealing three victories, one tie, and two losses.

The Clemson rats opened the game with a rush and before the visitors had steadied themselves, managed to push over
a touchdown, making the extra point with a successful drop-kick. But then the tide turned. The Wildkittens came back with
pep and the unexpected, in the form of Captain Baker intercepting a pass and ambling 65 yards for a touchdown,
and the half closed with the score standing at 7-all.

This seemed to take the starch out of the South Carolina rats, and Captain Sappenfield, opening the third period with
a flashing series of forward passes, quickly carried the ball within striking distance of the South Carolinians' goal, where Laird
rushed it over for the second touchdown. Davidson’s third touchdown came when Baker, in the final period, fell on a
blocked punt behind Clemson's goal line.

A deplorable accident occurred on the kick-off when Doughton, Davidson’s left tackle, had his leg broken when he was cut
from the side. He was sent to the Presbyterian hospital in Charlotte where an operation was found necessary. It will
be several weeks before he will be able to return to the campus.

Did you ever stop to think of the exceptions to the laws of physics? Sound travels at the rate of
400 yards per second. Exceptions: Cloverleaf scandal, 2,000 yards. Flattery, 500 yards. Truth, 3 yards. The bugle, 1 yard. Alarm
clock, ? ? ? ? ?

REPORTERS CLUB TAKES IN ADDITIONAL MEMBERS

At the regular meeting of the Reporter’s Club of the Davidsonian on Friday, November 24th, the following men were initiated
into the club: W. F. Galloway, A. L. Lake, H. M. White, J. H. Patton, R. L. Price, and W.
L. Pomeroy. The regular business was laid aside and everyone turned to one of the best feeds ever held on
the hill.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The Davidson Wildcats on last Saturday held the heavy Remount Team from Camp Greene to a scoreless tie. The day
was perfect for football and a large crowd of service men turned out to see the struggle. The game was
featured by the defensive playing of Davidson.

Much disappointment is felt on the campus on account of the Clemson game being played at Clemson College instead of
Charlotte. The sorrow of the student body at losing Mr. Moore, the “Y” secretary, was shown by the record-breaking attendance
at Shearer Hall last Sunday night.

A Davidson College alumni association has just been formed in China, according to a letter from Frank W. Price, ’16.
It will be of interest to his many friends to know that he is on his way to America now.

Henderson Auto Electric Co.
BATTERY REPAIRING and ACCESSORIES
Davidson, N. C.

J. L. McConnell
STAPLE and FANCY GROCERIES
DRY GOODS
CONFECTIONS
Davidson, N. C.

BANK OF DAVIDSON
OFFICERS:
JNO. L. DOUGLAS, President
J. LEE SLOAN, Vice-President
W. H. THOMPSON, Cashier
H. B. ELLIOTT, Asst. Cashier

“KLECTRIK-MAID” BAKE SHOP
“The Taste Tells”
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

L. R. SMITH
Groceries and Fruits
DAVIDSON, N. C.

H. M. JOHNSTON
Excellent Stock of Groceries
YOUR PATRONAGE IS APPRECIATED
DAVIDSON, N. C.
