THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

CAMPUSISMS

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy, 50 Cents the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON .......... Editor-in-Chief
H. H. .......... Forum Editor
L. D. ELKINS .......... First Managing Editor
R. C. .......... Campus Editor
W. M. HESTO .......... Second Managing Editor
D. H. .......... C. A. Editor
R. R. JONES .......... Assignment Editor
W. T. .......... Editor
E. H. MAUZE .......... Athletic Editor
H. M. .......... Editor
C. F. WILDMAN .......... Alumni Editor
W. Z. .......... Press Editor
W. SMACO .......... Exchange Editor

PRESS STAFF
W. Z. BRADFORD .......... Manager
F. GALLOWAY .......... Assistant Manager

Assistants
SMITH, C. F. BARRIN, J. C. MINTER, J. APPLEBY, I. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RALCHEORD, B. D.

DEPARTMENT
WIG COOPER .......... Business Manager
R. PRICE, J. D. .......... Advertising Solicitors
E. S. McCUTCHEON .......... Office Assistant
BESS ROSCII .......... Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION
WATT McCAIN .......... Circulation Manager
MAING .......... Asst. Circulation Mgr.
R. B. LILES
E. C. MOOMAW
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
PRICE, H. B., Sec.
R. H., Vice-Pres.
SHARPE, W. H., Sec-Treas.
WALTH, ATE
B. ALLISON
O. S. WHARTON
D. B. CALHOUN
P. WILDMAN
ARNEST
WILLIAMS, J.
FARWELL

The jinx that has pursued us ought to be cast off now. The Wofford game turned the trick and ushered in a winning streak that we don't want to let escape us. The biggest game of the season comes Saturday, and as things have turned out, winning it will bring more honor than ever before. Let’s all get in a winning frame of mind, talk up the game, and when we go to Charlotte go with the determination not to leave a stone unturned that might help bring a victory over Carolina.

ARMISTICE DAY

Since its institution as a Davidson custom in 1919, the Armistice Day celebration has been steadily growing in interest and attraction. The committee this year arranged a program that was excellent in every respect. What we heard about our college, we knew to a large extent but we had not grouped all her recent achievements together before nor realized the progress being made. It is also most fitting for this occasion. However, the best here was saved for the last. None who heard Mr. Hamilton Holt speak could fail to think how fortunate we were to have such a widely known man at Davidson. The pictures he drew for us from his experiences at home and abroad were as interesting as they were instructive and inspiring. His whole talk was a treat that everyone could and did enjoy.

WHEN two short weeks have passed, Senior Week will be upon us. Coming as it does right after Thanksgiving, the event should find us all in a pleasant humor and anxious to enjoy the occasion. Without the co-operation of everyone, whatever the Seniors may plan will not succeed as it should. As things look at present, furthermore, this should be one of the best affairs of its kind that has been held here. The exercises of the class will be as novel and entertaining as was the carnival that was so successfully maneuvered last Spring. All the Seniors will appear very different in their derbies, to say the least, although it is perhaps somewhat dubious as to how much better their appearance will be. This year’s minstrel also promises to be superior to anything we have had. With only few of us on the hill to see and enjoy it, this celebration will lose its interest. It cannot really be a success. Everything will be done to help entertain our guests, and everyone ought to try to have a girl up for the occasion. The faculty has certainly granted a liberal holiday that should help make this week-end pleasant. With Thanksgiving and Friday and Saturday off, there is the possibility of an unsurpassed Senior Week. It will certainly be a pity if instead of planning to enjoy one of Davidson’s few social events, everyone makes a rush to get away for these three days. If instead we will all be here and help make this really interesting, it will do much toward putting such events and establishing their place on our calendar.

A GAME IN GREENSBORO

This season is the first in some time during which Davidson has played one of her football games in Greensboro. That section of the State is the home of quite a large number of our alumni. It would certainly not do to let their interest in the college grow cold, or their close touch with and support of our teams cease. We lost to Trinity this year, but we had a large number of supporters at the game, pulling hard for a Davidson victory. All these and more want to see us come back next year and beat Trinity in Greensboro. If this game could be made an annual affair there, it would be a fine move on our part to do so. Every year more people would attend from the country around, and enthusiasm would be worked up among them. We could plan for it in advance here and make preparations that would give us a chance to impress the town. Greensboro showed us this year how well she would support a game there, and we would make no financial error by making that the place for our annual clash with Trinity. Considering the fact that such an arrangement would bring so many desirable results with so few hindrances to be removed, why can’t it be done? If it is talked around and all favor it, we certainly should get this annual game scheduled.

SENIORS CELEBRATE SOON

The tribute paid every year to the memory of our alumni who have

Win or Lose Our Team

Fellows, we have been somewhat disappointed with the results of some of our games this fall. It is a rather bitter pill to swallow to have some of the brethren of other denominations to crow over us. Such is life, however. So we must learn how to take defeat as well as victory. This year we have a good team. It happens that they haven't won all the time but that wasn’t because they didn't try hard. They have fought as hard as they could in every game and they have been more disappointed than any one of us at their defeats. The beauty of football is the hard, gruelling fight from start to finish. The team that stops fighting becomes a joke. The team that fights as hard as it can to the last whistle deserves honor and glory even if the score is against them. We all admire the man who keeps fighting at anything when the odds are against him. Our team deserves more praise and commendation because it has kept fighting after losing several games than if they had won every game. They need your support now more than ever. Let's get behind them and root for them harder than ever. Win or lose, our team,

ROOTER.

Cheer Leaders

DAVIDSON SPIRIT is the one subject of discussion that has lived through the years and that has furnished a theme for Forum articles and campus debates since the day of the foundation of the college. If any one thing can be singled out as that thing to which WILDCAT SPIRIT is to be most attributed, that one thing is the CHEER LEADER and his corps of assistants. If the Cheer Leader is of the right calibre the pep and enthusiasm is bound to follow. The Cheer Leader after a delayed start, has almost rounded pent up enthusiasm and latent pep into a true WILDCAT SPIRIT but there is one thing that isLacking in the formation of the cheer leading corps is the election of a sufficient number of assistants. It is an Athletes Association ruling that two assistants, and it would not be a bad idea to have that number increased, be elected each year from the Junior class. The purpose of this provision is to train men for the next year as well as to aid the officiating Cheer Leader. This article is not a knocker nor a criticism of the present cheer leaders, but it is an appeal and a demand that student regulations be carried out in the election of the aforementioned assistants, and at an early date. This is a necessary step toward the preservation and creation of next year’s WILDCAT SPIRIT. Those of us who are to be at Davidson for the next few years and those of us who are leaving this year to look back on the GREATEST SPIRIT IN THE WORLD want adequate and properly elected Assistant Cheer Leaders. RAH! RAH!

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson defeats Washington and Lee, 20 to 0, in the first game of the season. The Generals outweighed the Wildcats but were not able to handle them. Johnson and Massey showed up well. It was one of the greatest games of the several seasons. Davidson's goal line was in danger only twice. The war work campaign will start today, November 13, 1918. Davidson's last year quota is doubled, $4,000 to be raised. Lt. S. R. Keesler, Jr., ‘17, is reported missing. Lieutenant Keesler is from Greenwood, Miss. He is in the aviation service and has been missing since October 10th. Lieutenant Keesler is well known in Davidson circles and known throughout the South as one of the South’s best quarterbacks. Davidson takes football championship from Carolina, with a score of 14 to 7. Davidson defeated Carolina in a game that will rival any of the preceding games in fight, cleanliness, and beauty. Those who went to Winston will never forget that memorable occasion. Davidson College led all other colleges per capita in the recent united war work campaign. A whirlwind campaign lasted one hour and $7,179.50 was raised. Guard house is located in the South wing of Chambers. The people of Davidson are soon to witness a new sight—a sentinel walking post on D. C. campus.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

It’s a wise child who goes out of the room to laugh when the ‘old man mashes his thumb.

Clerk—"What size hammock do you want?”
Summer Girl—"Oh, a small hammock, just big enough for one, but—er—strong enough for two."—Exchange.

Rudolph—“Since you lost the bet, I think I can claim the forfeit.”
Milda—"I really don’t know what you mean, and besides someone might see us."—The Technician.

Fools throw kisses; wise men deliver them in person.

Father to Co-Ed (after examining his expense account)—Do you think silk stockings are absolutely necessary?
Daughter—Certainly—up to a certain point.—The Humbug.

Darling, can anything ever come between us?
Eavesdropper—(to himself)—Impossible.

Penn State Froth.
“Say, Pa.”
“Well, my son.”
“I took a walk through the cemetery today and read the inscriptions.”
“Well, what about it?”
“Where are all the wicked people buried?”—Syracuse Orange Peel.

There was a little girl
And she had a little curl
Right in the middle of her forehead.
And when she was good
She was very, very good,
But when she was bad—
She was popular.—Ex.

Gladys—I am afraid you aren't as pretty as nurse.
Mamma—What makes you think so?
Gladys—We've been walking in the park a whole hour, and not a single policeman has said, “Hello, baby, how's nurse?”—Pearson’s Weekly.

Drunken—"Where does Jim Murphy live?”
Friend—“Why, you're Jim Murphy, old top.”
Drunken—“I know it, but where does he live?”—Royal Gaboon.

The Wobbly One—“Offisher, did you see me f-fall?”
Officer—"Yes.”
The Wobbly One—“Had you ever sh-sheen me before?”
Officer—“No.”
The Wobbly One—“Then how d-did you know it washz me?”—Ex.

Burnfield—My father was engaged to my mother for four years.
Effie Sawyer (absent-mindedly)—Did he ever marry her?—The Twig.

The Scrub
Not so husky as the man
One step higher in the clan,
Or perhaps as good at bucking or as fast;
But, as to grit and will,
He was even stronger still,
And for punch he had the varsity outclassed.
Not a hero in the game,
But a scrub!
As a human punching bag
He would grin but never lag,
And as to giving up, he’d be the last!
He would watch the other play
In the glory of the day,
With a plea within his heart for them to win
And he'd share the victor’s heat,
Right along with their defeat,
As he’d back them with his optimistic vim!
But they do not shout his name,
He’s a scrub!
Yet he’s winning every game—
As a scrub!
Though he’s hidden from our sight,
Should we lose him in the fight,
Or let the jewels of his crown grow dim?
—The Technique.

By OKEY ALLISON

George Ragin spent the weekend with his parents in Gastonia.

Wallace Moore on English V—"Professor, how would you express the past tense of ‘He lies there?’ Would it be, ‘He lied there?’”

“Ikey” Morris wrote an essay last week for English on the subject: “The Habitually Poor.” Wonder where he got his dope?

It was impossible to get the names of all the fair damsels who were on the Hill last week. The Shelby-Monroe game attracted so many that to name them all would require a whole column.

Rev. W. A. Murray, '96, father of W. A. Murray, Jr., '26, was an interested spectator at the Shelby-Monroe game Friday. Mr. Murray held the college record for the mile run until just a few years ago.

Pablo Price felt the need of sleep so badly in church Sunday morning that he could only be induced to arouse from his slumbers by President Martin!

John Simpson claims to be a ladies' man now. He says Mrs. Smith writes him two letters every week, and he doesn’t have to answer them at all.

There's no doubt about it. Montague had the fighting spirit Saturday.

Seniors forgot their dignity Saturday night. At the Follies, bald head row was well occupied by them. The line-up is as follows: Sloan, J. B.; Sorrels, G. B.; Sydenstricker, R. B.; Morris, H. M.; Foil, M. B.; Booth, J. P., and Davis, J. H.

See what Webster says about it. Don’t show your ignorance by calling Greenwich “Greenwitch.”

Brown seems to be the predominating color among the student body this year, there being 12 representatives. White comes next, with four. Black and Grey tie for third place with two each. Blue, Green, and Scarlet each have one representative.

Davidson has its share of nature, and the out of doors—the Fields, Woods, Falls, Glen, and Bog. Animals and fowls of the air come in for their part with Cranes, Crow, Bird, and Wolf. In this connection, mention is necessary of the Shepherds and the Hurd.

Misses Helen Ragen, Elizabeth Bowles, and Virginia Hinkle visited friends on the campus Sunday.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
7:00 p.m.—Eumanean Society.
7:00 p.m.—Phi Society.

FRIDAY
3:00 p.m.—Davidson Freshmen vs. Wofford Freshmen at Rock Hill, S.C.
7:30 p.m.—Movies—“To Have and To Hold.”
9:00 p.m.—Soph-Fresh basketball game.

SATURDAY
11:50 a.m.—All aboard for Charlotte!
3:00 p.m.—Davidson vs. Carolina, in Charlotte.

SUNDAY
10:00 a.m.—Volunteer Band.
11:00 a.m.—Church services.
1:00 p.m.—C. E. Training class.
1:45 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
3:50 p.m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper service.

TUESDAY
6:45 p.m.—Metrophilian Society.
7:00 p.m.—Pandemic Society.
8:00 p.m.—Senior-Freshman basketball game.
9:00 p.m.—Bible class leaders meeting.

WEDNESDAY
7:00 p.m.—Eu Freshman Society.
9:00 p.m.—Bible classes.

Naughty! Naughty!

The sofa sagged in the center
The shades were pulled just so,
The family had retired,
The parlor light burned low,
There came a sound from the sofa
As the clock was striking two,
And the co-ed slammed her textbook
With a thankful, “Well, I’m through.”—Beanpot.

The flapper’s motto—“Save the surface and you save all.”—Juanita Echo.