THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

H. H. SMITH................. Forum Editor
S. D. BLKINE............... First Editor
R. C. AIKEN................. Campus Editor
M. HESTON................. Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. R. JONES................. Social Editor
W. T. ELLIOTT.............. Social Editor
H. M. MORRIS............... Exchange Editor
W. M. TEC................. Exchange Editor

CLUB
W. P. BROWN, President
A. N. MOFFETT, Vice-President
W. H. MOORE, Secretary-Treasurer
H. M. MOSS, C. V. ALLISON, O. J. PRICE, I. B. BUTZER, C. M. TULLER, C. D. EARNS, R. D.
WALTHALL, D. B. PILL, H. WILDMAN, A. G. FEWELL, M. M.

Special Reporters for this Issue Are:
J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE

Asst. Business Managers
WATT MCCAIN.............. Circulation Manager
C. FAIN................... Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants in Circulation Department
R. B. LILES, E. THROWER, J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

Elon has been defeated, fellows, and now we want to do the same and more to P. C. Let’s all
be ready to give the team a royal welcome when they “bring back the bacon” from this South Carolina rival
of ours.

The moving picture department of the “Y” is certainly an efficient one. Both last year and this we have been
getting the very latest and best attractions. When we think of what price theaters over the country charge for these,
we realize that we are seeing them at a much lower rate than we could elsewhere. The management can’t be
praised too much.

ON TO CHARLOTTE!

ALWAYS have the students of Davidson desired to have the favor and support of the city of Charlotte, our nearest
neighbor. We feel that the backing of this city is one of our biggest assets, and as a body have
been most willing to do our part toward securing it. There has, of course, always existed a kindred feeling between
alumni there and Davidson, but at times we did feel that, in some ways at least, the whole city was
not behind us. The growing enthusiasm that has been manifested for the college has been a source of pride and
pleasure, and now the climax it has reached in the trip to Charlotte that we are to have, is certainly
appreciated by every student. We have never had a trip like this offered us before, fellows, and it’s going to
be quite an occasion for all 500 students to see the city of Charlotte in a body. Then, too, we
all will enjoy the luncheon that the Chamber of Commerce is giving, and particularly the chance to see the Made-in-Carolinas
Exposition. In fact, it’s a privilege and pleasure that none can afford to miss, so everyone get ready for Monday
and the trip.

AN ATTRACTIVE FEATURE.

Since moving into the two new dormitories, East and West, we have certainly all been impressed with their up-to-date plan,
their many conveniences and their fine appearance and newness, things never experienced by any of us here before. The way
in which the walls in every room look is quite novel for Davidson and is beyond doubt much more desirable
than any number of pennants could make them were they full of tack and nail holes. Since both conditions are
not possible, it does seem that it would be much better to keep them as they now look rather than
get our new walls into the fix of those in Bumple, Watts, and Georgia. In addition to the many other
improvements these dormitories have, such as good, secure locks on the closets as well as on the hall doors, stairways
at both the front and back which seem practically a necessity after they are gotten, and fire-proof construction, East and
West have another feature which is newer to us probably than any of the others. This is the lounging room
that each dormitory has on the first floor. These rooms are being fitted up in the best manner with excellent
furniture, well-finished floors and attractive surroundings and good taste on every side. Undoubtedly, these rooms will be most pleasant and
convenient for those having spare time during the day in which to enjoy them. The reading room at the “Y”
has always been used, and has been exceedingly valuable to us all in the capacity in which these new rooms
will serve, but the distance to the gym has been a disadvantage to it that these will not suffer. In
addition, there is another advantageous purpose which these rooms could be made to serve. Almost every night there are some
men who do not feel like studying or think they have a very full day’s work before them, so want
to drop in and visit their friends. Of course, the “bull-sessions” resulting interfere to a marked extent with the work
of all participating. Therefore if the members of these could use the lounging rooms, and do their talking with those
who were not inclined to study for the time being either, rather than those who really want to, the benefit
resulting would itself almost justify the effort.

The Davidson spirit is something that we have heard discussed ever since we first heard of Davidson. Some of us
have been worried because we haven't seen it walking around the campus. It is so real, so much a part
of the college that we think of it as almost human. The spirit of Davidson is handed down from generation
to generation of college students. Whether its light be bright or dim rests in the hands of the present student
body. We have often been asked just what the Davidson spirit is. The following poem seems to express very clearly
the true meaning of our famous spirit:

It’s doing your job the best you can
And being just to your fellow-man;
It’s figuring how and learning why,
And looking forward and thinking high,
And dreaming a little and doing much
It’s keeping always in closest touch
With what is finest in work and deed
It’s being thorough yet making airy
It’s daring blithely the field of chance
While making labor a brave romance;
It’s going onward despite defeat
And fighting staunchly, but keeping sweet;
It’s being clean and playing fair;
It’s laughing lightly at Dame Despair;
It’s looking up at the stars above,
And drinking deeply of life and love;
It's struggling on with the will to win,
But taking loss with a cheerful grin;
It’s sharing sorrow and work and mirth
And making better the good old earth;
It’s serving and striving through strain and stress,
It’s doing your noblest—that’s success,
—Copied.

Forget Her

(Note: The following poem was first published in a copy of the Davidson College Magazine of 1912. We reprint it
here for the benefit of some of our readers who may be suffering from the aftereffects of a joyous summer.)

When your head takes a whirl
Over some certain girl,
And you think She’s the classiest ever;
Don't fill up with joy—
Think it over my boy—
Take a good hearty laugh and—
Forget Her.

If you hand Her “the dope,”
And She throws you “the rope,”
And you “bite” and consider Her clever—
Then don't hesitate—
You might wait too late—
Take a good hearty laugh and—
Forget Her.

My Boy, be a man,
Take a sensible stand.
And when She thinks that She “has you going,”
Just let Her discover
That you really don’t love Her,
Take a good hearty laugh and—
Forget Her.

Her obstinate nature
Is Her principal feature,But it seems that She'll never know better, Till you let Her know That She's not “the
Whole show,” Take a good hearty laugh and— Forget Her. It was easy as sin For me to jump in,
When She threw Her bait out on the river— And I swallowed the bite, But it's all off tonight, Forget
Her. S. H. Mullen.

It was twilight and dark, up near Manitou Park, a maiden sat combing her bright golden hair, when heated with
roaming, all panting and foaming, there came up and squeezed her, a big grizzly bear. It did not affright her;
the bear did not bite her, she lay back and murmured: “Oh, still tighter dear.” This broke up old bruin,
he let off his wooing, sneaked back to the mountains and hid a whole year. D.

A man never realizes the superiority of woman so much as when he is sewing on a button without a
thimble, pushing the needle against the wall to get it halfway through and pulling it through the other half by
hanging on to it with the teeth. D.

A woman was kicked on the chin by a mule, causing her to bite off the end of her tongue,
and her husband refused the offer of $1,000 for the mule. —Beaufort Gazette.

While on my lap I heard her sigh; She snuggled closer yet to me, Then lifting up her dresses high,
Showed me her knee, and said, “Look. See!” I kissed her on her pretty ear, And pinched her on her
dimpled knee, While she, without the slightest fear, Showed me her knee, and said, “Look. See!” Upon my chest she
leaned her head, She plainly sought my sympathy, So when I said, “you go to bed,” She showed her knee
and said, “Look. See!” And then upon her knee I saw A little bruise fast turning blue, I sympathized and
hugged her for My little daughter's only two. —Atlanta Constitution. (The Technician.)

On November 4 the “Wolfpack” meets the “Wildcats” of Davidson, in Raleigh. Davidson seems to have a way of upsetting
the dope. Starting out last season with a defeat by Wake Forest, the first in the history of their football
relations, she ended up by holding both State and Carolina to no decision tie games. Practically the entire team returns
and Coach Grey should turn out the usual scrappy and aggressive team. State will win this game, due to a
heavier team and a more experienced backfield.

The bashful midshipman was on leave, and was having a hard time making conversation with the fair young thing at
the dance. “I suppose you've been in the navy so long,” she observed in desperation. “I-I-I wasn’t looking at them,”
he protested, blushing hotly.—Selected.

Don't worry when you stumble—remember, a worm is about the only thing that can't fall down.

To speak wisely may not always be easy, but not to speak ill requires only silence.

A pretty girl jumps to the conclusion that every man she meets wants to kiss her. And the wonder of
it is that she is right.

It's all right for a man to love all mankind, but if he gets to loving all womankind, he is
apt to end up in jail.

DEFINITION OF KISS. A FLAPPER’S

Seems Like A moonlight trip sailing on a banana down a stream of lemonade to an ice cream parlor.

Tastes Like Double distilled essence of honey spread thick on a piece of gingerbread.

Feels Like A convoy of quails flying out of each ear, and ending up in a sensation like a flock
of angels pouring molasses down one’s back.

And Is When taken from the lips of the “sweet young thing,” the sweetest thing in all the world.—Selected.

Better are two left-hand gloves, than a man in the moonlight with the wrong woman; and a maiden alone by
the seashore, as a hat without a hat-pin, she breedeth wild thoughts.—Va. Tech.

HOW THEY ARE KISSED,

The Charleston girl bows her stately head And fixes her stylish lips, In a firm hard way—and lets 'em go,
And sips, and sips, and sips.

The Columbia girl has a way of her own, A clinging, soulful way, She takes a kiss that’s just as
big As a wagon load of hay.

The Greenville girl gets a grip on herself And carefully takes off her hat, Then grabs the man in a
frenzied way Like a terrier shaking a rat.

The Savannah girl just arches her eye, So cool—so cold—so glum, She sticks out her lips—like an open book And
keeps on chewing gum.

But the Beaufort girl never says a word, She’s too gentle—timid and tame, But she grabs a young man by
the back of his neck, And gets there just the same.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The nucleus of the football team will be four “D” men: H. M. Grey, A. C. Burns, G. M. King
and J. A. Shaw; and also several “D. C.” men: Flowers, Spann, Crouch and McAlister. Quoted clipping from The Atlanta
Constitution: “Those Davidson Wildcats will be here October 13. Every season they throw a scare into the Jackets (Ga. Tech.)
by the splendid article of ball they put up.” We expect to do a little of that scaring again this
year. Result, Ga. Tech, 32; D. C., 10. Most points scored on Tech during the entire season.

Among the fascinating new war books in the library is “Over the Top” by Arthur Guy Empey. Friends of Dr.
T. W. Lingle will be glad to hear of his safe arrival in France. Elections resulted in: H. M. Grey,
president of Athletic Association and J. W. McAlister, vice president. I. W. Hengeveld, president of ball club; H. T. Lilly,
editor of Quips and Cranks.

“We're in this war, we’re in, Don’t lose your nerve, stick out your chin. Brace up and wear a winner’s
grin; We'll hoist ‘Old Glory’ in Berlin.” D.

TOWN NEWS

The Misses Shewmaker spent the weekend in Asheville. Mrs. Hearn has returned from a visit to her father, Colonel Jadwyn,
who is now stationed at Charleston, S.C. Doctor Martin spoke last Thursday evening before the Men’s Club of the First
Presbyterian Church in Charlotte on the “Financial Value of an Education.” Mrs. Fraser Hood has returned from Raleigh, where she
went to place her daughter, Miss Kalista, in St. Mary’s School. Miss Sarah Lingle leaves this week for Smith College,
where she is a Senior. Mrs. Morrell, mother of I. Morrell, ’26, has taken rooms at the home of Dr.
and Mrs. J. W. McConnell for the winter. Mr. W. A. Presson, of Charlotte, has moved to Davidson and is
living with Dr. and Mrs. Jeton. Mr. Presson is to have charge of the Ford agency. Mr. and Mrs. H.
M. Askew, of the class of 1900, were in Davidson last week. Mr. Askew, whose home is in Decatur, Ga.,
is a high official in the Southern Bell Telephone Company.

The Misses Bailey, of Rock Hill, S. C., were the weekend guests of Miss Marguerite Adams. The Davidson High School
is getting out a creditable football team. Dick Grey is captain and Joe McConnell is manager. G. B. Sorrells, of
the varsity, is coach. Miss Marguerite Adams entertained a few friends at a picnic supper after the game Saturday evening
in honor of her guests, the Misses Bailey.

Miss Peggy Baum, of Hoboken, N. J., is visiting her friend, Miss Mary Black. On Tuesday evening Miss Black entertained
a few friends in honor of her guest. The Book Lover's Club met with the new president, Miss Douglas. Mrs.
Erwin read a very interesting paper on “Egyptian Art.”

Miss Brown, of Atlanta, sister of Mrs. Erwin, spent the weekend in Davidson, en route to the Assembly’s Training School
at Richmond, Va. Mrs. Aiken and son, Hugh, spent the weekend on the hill. Mr. R. W. McKay and Mr.
Shephard Nash, former Davidson men, paid a short visit to the hill last Friday.

DEDICATED TO REGEN.

A woman went into a newspaper office and wished to advertise for her husband who had disappeared. When told that
they charged two dollars an inch she went out, saying it would break her up at that rate as her
husband was over six feet tall.
