THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1922.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

'Tis rumored that our new dormitory will come in on a flat car next week. Mose has applied for the
job as elevator boy in the new dormitory. Judging from the heat in the other dormitories, why not name the
new dormitory Alaska?

Features of Our New Dorm:
1. To the left as you enter: Breakfast Room.
2. Ballroom on the second floor back—Baseball.
3. Sleeping porches on the North side.
4. Barber shop and shoe-shine parlor in the Basement.
5. Sun parlors and roof garden on the fourth floor.
6. With each radiator ticket you buy, you get a fur coat.

What has become of the old-fashioned boy who used to offer you a cigarette?

White—I’d like to see something cheap in a spring hat.
Clerk—Try this one. The mirror is at your left.

Wyman—I worked on that problem until almost 5 o’clock this morning.
Mauze—And did you get the idea then?
Wyman—Yes, it began to dawn on me.

On Exam.
Horace—What is the date, please?
Prof.—Never mind the date; this exam is the important part.
Horace—I know, sir, but I wanted to have something right.

The latest news from Fricker is that he is in a very absorbing business. He makes blotting paper.

Watch—“She was as pure and as white as snow.”
Fob—“Yeah, but she drifted.”

Snag—This cold weather chills me to the bone.
B. McCallum—You ought to wear a hat.

Harold—Doctor, I'd like to have my excuse extended.
Dean—Ah. Three more days of grace.
Harold (absently)—No, sir, three more days of Gertrude.

Clothes don’t make a man, but Fain’s socks are his strongest point.

Joe B (waking Small up)—Eight o’clock! Eight o’clock!
Small (sleepily)—Better call a doctor.

Some of the books being bound now ought to be gagged.—(Mississippian).

English Prof.—Mr. Miller, name 11 of Shakespeare's plays.
P. D.—"Ten Nights in a Bar-room" and "The Merchant of Venice."

Bailey—They say we have a hundred and seventy odd Freshmen this year.
Thomas—Yes, every one of them is.

Vic—"I hear they are going to fine us a quarter for every tack we have in the walls.”
“Flop”—“Yeah, the thumb tax.”

On the Deputation.
Tink Taylor—I never mind carving when I’m asked out, but the gravy never seems to match the wallpaper.

NATIONAL MEET OF O. D. K.
(Continued from page 1)

The program was divided into morning and afternoon sessions for business, and a banquet at night. At the business sessions,
reports from the various circles were heard, the policies of the organization discussed, and plans were made for the future.
In addition to this, an election was held which resulted in the selection of Dr. W. M. Brown, of Washington
and Lee University, as president. The retiring president was Dr. John C. French, of Johns Hopkins.

The night session was given over to a banquet, with the University of Pittsburgh Circle as host. An especially enjoyable
time was passed by all, because of the courtesy and hospitality of the Gamma Circle.

The purposes of the O. D. K. fraternities are to honor those men who have been of service to their
respective student bodies and colleges and to do constructive work at the institutions at which they are located. The organization
was founded at Washington and Lee in 1914 and now embraces seven colleges and universities: W. and L., Johns Hopkins,
U. of Pitt., Davidson, U. of Richmond, Centre, and William and Mary. The Delta Circle was established at Davidson in
1917 and has come to be regarded as a leading organization on the campus. The active members are: Doctor Grey,
Dr. J. M. Douglas, Mr. Jackson, J. C. Bailey, D. R. LaFar, J. M. McFadden, J. P. Price, R. R.
Deaver, J. M. Richards, T. M. Lowry, and A. L. Currie. The associate members are: Doctor Martin, Doctor Sentelle, and
Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Coaches Grey and Hengeveld.

DAVIDSON WRESTLERS LOSE
(Continued from page 1)

Merritt. This affair was called a draw at the end of the allotted period, and a six-minute extra period was
necessitated. Bob started with a rush and gained the only fall of the tournament credited to Davidson. (Class 129-139).

In the 139-149 class, Pat Kimsey represented Davidson. He clearly bested Pickett, being on the offense from start to finish,
but according to the rules governing the fracas, a draw was declared. Liley, for Trinity, pinned White’s shoulders after four
minutes and secured the first fall for Trinity. (Class 169-175).

Brice, due to injuries, was forced to forfeit to Trinity after about five minutes. Paterson, for Davidson, lost by a
fall to his wiry opponent after six minutes of swapping holds. The match was close and interesting. The last match
went to Ed Fewell, of Davidson, by a decision over Captain Bailey, of the Trinity team. Ed showed a characteristic
Wildcat fighting spirit and merited his decision over Trinity's best bet.

R. R. Jones and G. B. Roberts furnished three rounds of sparring before the tournament began. The wrestling team is
practically a new venture for Davidson and is already creating considerable enthusiasm. Several other meets are under the process of
formation, and after several weeks of additional work, the Wildcat mat men should be able to do credit to themselves.

CAMPUSISMS.

Misses Eileen Johnson, Cornelia Wearn, Katherine Hargraves, Martha Smith, Alice Walker, and Dorothy Powell, of Charlotte, came up from Charlotte
for the game Saturday night.

Mr. J. R. Brady, one of Davidson’s strongest alumni supporters, was on the hill from Statesville Monday.

Ralph Robinson, ex-’15, Willis Robinson, ex-’19, and Press Robinson, ex-’22, were greeting old friends on the hill Sunday.

Guests of Mrs. Robson during the past week were A. J. Vann, E. B. Crow, C. E. Hughes, N. S.
Oliver, W. S. Glenn, W. E. Crane, W. E. Poythress, M. R. Patrick, and J. R. Earnest.

Paul Price, '24, received the sad news Friday of the death of his father at Roanoke, Va., and left immediately
for his home.P. H. Biddle, ’23, attended the S. C. Student Volunteer Union Convention at Columbia College, Columbia, S. C.,
the past weekend.

Caldwell INTERNATIONAL “Y” NEWS.

“The use a man makes of his time and money is a measure of his character and a test of
his good sense.”

In the South.
Following the visit of H. C. Gossard and David Porter to the University of Virginia, 21 men have volunteered for
leadership in the forming and conducting of Bible discussion groups.

In the Southwest.
The cabinet of Rice Institute report a weekend retreat to plan for their enlarging association work. They were assisted by
an International “Y” Secretary and the committee of Houston businessmen. Among other things discussed were plans for a campaign under
Sherwood Eddy’s leadership.

Deputation, though somewhat neglected in recent years, is taking on new life in the Southwest. Teams organized in the University
of Arkansas, College of the Ozarks, and State Agricultural College visit nearby communities every Sunday and report invaluable service to
both the communities and themselves.

In New England.
At Brown University more than fifty freshmen volunteered to do some form of boys’ work, promising to give two hours
for at least one evening a week. Massachusetts Agricultural College has a well-attended mission study group. The association is sending
out groups to sing at hospitals and other institutions.

At Northwestern University during the Week of Prayer, ten prayer groups were formed in the fraternity houses, dormitories, and rooming
houses. Several of the houses are making the groups permanent.

On the Pacific Coast.
At Stanford University Bible classes are meeting each Sunday morning at ten in the Memorial Church. There is also a
large Bible class for Philippine boys.

In Foreign Lands.
Fourteen new Y. M. C. A. secretaries sailed for foreign lands this past summer and 13 furloughed secretaries are returning
to their respective fields. When one considers the magnitude of the task in foreign lands, “How thin each of these
men must spread himself.”

A Summer Vacation.
Fifty decisions in one week in a small Korean village was the profitable way the student department of the Seoul
“Y” spent their vacation. Meeting three times a day, the attendance went from 200 the first morning to 1,000 at
the meeting during the closing day.

Undergirded with Prayer.
“Undergirding a University with Prayer” has been a motto of the American men’s University of Cairo, Egypt. The year has
been marked by a spirit of earnestness to discover the secrets of Christianity. Seventy-five percent of the student body is
Mohammedan.

Peru’s Stadium.
The British Colony at Lima has asked the “Y” secretary at Lima to act as a committee to direct the
construction of a $75,000 stadium, a centenary gift of the British to Peru.

SUNDAY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE IMPROVES
Probably owing to the fair weather Sunday, the attendance at the six mission Sunday Schools sprang up to about the
average. The following table shows the attendance and numbers of teachers at the various schools for February 19th:

School Teachers Attendance
Cornelius 6 58
Shearer 5 55
Stanley 4 45
Mill 3 35
Oak Grove 2 11

It is of interest to state that Doctor Sentelle filled the pulpit of Mr. Clontz at Cornelius after the Sunday
School. He contrasted the lives of Elijah and Elisha, saying that God is still picking His men for His jobs
in these days.

The Mission Study Classes held February 15th showed a total attendance of 95. Six classes did not meet at all.
This is about a 20 percent attendance. The topic for March 1 is Cuba and Mexico.

Mrs. S. E. Morgan, of Winston-Salem, was here last week, visiting her nephew, Professor Erwin. The Misses Young gave an
afternoon tea in her honor on Friday.

VAN HORN AND INEZ
In “Sixty Turns a Minute”

PAUL HENSHAW
The Human Ukulele
Late Feature of Al. G. Fields Minstrels

WALMSLEY & KEATING
In “Comicalities of Life”

THE COTTON PICKERS
A Singing, Dancing and Comedy Offering

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville PROGRAM
Thurs., Fri., Sat., Feb. 23rd, 24th, 25th.

B. F. KEITH VAUDEVILLE
PATHE NEWS and COMEDY

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor,
peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Victrolas
Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

Each character in the “MICROBE OF LOVE” makes a hit. Dangerous only to hard-hearted bachelors. Businessmen accomplish more work with
greater facility when they have seen the “MICROBE OF LOVE.” The “MICROBE OF LOVE” KILLS THE BLUES.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $45, $50. Featuring the new 4-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes.

HATS, FURNISHINGS, SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music.

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.

Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N.C.
A HOME COMPANY
A HOME BUILDER
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
S. S. Spencer, Mgr.
