THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1922

Religious

CHINA AND JAPAN ARE SUBJECTS OF DISCUSSION

Two foreign countries were discussed in the Volunteer Band meeting last Sunday. First, M. P. Calhoun spoke. China has one-fourth
of the population of the world, 93 per cent of whom are illiterate, and seven-tenths are in poverty, and only
one out of every 50 have any access to modern medical treatment, he said. These peoples, whose main religions are
Confucianism and Buddhism, have had their pride turned to humility, and now are eager to learn.

Wallace Moore spoke with his characteristic mingling of pride and authoritativeness upon his native country, Japan. He told of their
compulsory education, of their splendid medical profession, of their religions—Confucianism, Buddhism, and Shintoism, and of their patriotism that literally makes
a man want to die for his country. The two parties of Japan, the military and peoples’ parties, form about
six per cent of the whole nation of 70 million persons. Japan is now in a crisis, as the peoples’
party is striving to get the upper hand. “Thus Japan needs immediate Christian attention lest she become a great heathen
power,” he said.

Dr. Y. O. Chai, of Korea, was announced to speak on Korea at the next regular meeting.

ATTENDANCE AT BIBLE CLASSES DECREASES

The Bible classes this week were considerably broken up, both on account of the time of meeting being put forward
and because of the excitement over the campus campaign being carried on that night. The subject for discussion was, “How
Can Group-Life Be Made Christian?” Doctor Currie, in addressing the leaders class, brought out the fact that a group must
be touched through its individuals, for the group is composed of individuals, and if all of them are reached then
the whole group will be. A person’s success in Christianizing a group cannot be estimated by his progress with the
group; David Livingstone labored for 30 years among the savages of Africa and at his death had converted only two
of them, yet who would say that Livingstone was a failure? Among the moral issues dependent on group settlement were
discussed cheating and hazing. Although the former was considered important, the latter was by far the most necessary for group
settlement on our campus. Hazing was proven to be a moral issue as it is against all laws, national, State,
and college.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS MR. LOCKHART

The members of the Ministerial Band were fortunate in having Malcolm Lockhart, director of the Greater Davidson Campaign, address them
at their regular meeting last Sunday, which was led by W. T. Baker, president of the band. Mr. Lockhart first
reviewed the marvelous progress the world has recently made, and then in contrast to this showed that although the Bible
has not changed it still fulfills the needs of every race of every age. He read a passage from First
Corinthians which showed that Paul, the greatest writer of all ages, ranked teachers above miracle workers. The world does not
realize this fact, but it is true that the greatest form of service is that of serving as a spiritual
teacher. The talk was concluded by briefly commenting on the three Christian graces, joy, peace, and love. As verses embodying
these graces, Mr. Lockhart quoted, “These things have I said unto you that your joy might be full,” “My peace
leave I with you,” and “Love one another.”

CHURCH NEWS

Doctor Richards and the session of the Presbyterian Church are arranging for a series of services of an Evangelistic nature
for each Sunday this winter. The first half hour of each service is given over to the musical program activities
under the supervision of O. J. Allison. At each service, officers of the congregation stand at the four doors and
welcome the people and distribute the hymn books.

WITH THE C. E.

The various Christian Endeavor Societies have settled down to their winter program, with the following leaders: Mrs. Foreman and Wallace
Purdy, Junior Society; Misses Nora Thompson and Johnsie Shelton, Intermediate Society, and Doc Brown, president of the Senior Society.

CAMPAIGN SERMONS

The pulpits of all the Presbyterian churches of Charlotte will be occupied on Sunday by members of the Davidson faculty,
speaking in the interest of the Davidson campaign.

EPWORTH LEAGUE

Misses Grace Goodrum and Madeline Cathey are the leaders of the Epworth League, which is the Young People’s Society of
the Methodist Church.

LIVELY BIBLE CLASS

A flourishing Bible class is taught in the Hut back of the Methodist Church every Sabbath morning. The leaders are
Messrs. Everett Torrence and Sam Thompson.

EVANGELISTIC MUSIC IS LED BY ALLISON

As announced by Dr. Richards some time ago, the Sunday night services of the Presbyterian Church during the fall months
are being conducted as evangelistic services. To help in this work special song services of an evangelistic nature are held
preparatory to each service. These services are led by O. J. Allison, assisted by a choir of eight or 10
selected voices. Allison is well qualified to do this work both by natural ability and experience. He has a voice
well adapted to the work and has had experience both in the Glee Club and evangelistic singing. These weekly services
are interesting and inspiring and are well attended both by the town people and the students.

PLUCKY WILDCATS FIGHT (Continued from Page One)

Wildcats a tie and braced the whole team to hold off the Tech attack in the last three quarters. For
Tech, Gettle and Wallace gained the most ground. Sutton and Rutherford failed to gain consistently over the Wildcats. The breaks
were very nearly even as Tech intercepted four forward passes while Davidson intercepted one pass and recovered three Tech fumbles.

The game play by play:

FIRST QUARTER

Davidson won the toss and elected to kick. Davidson defended the north goal. Brice kicked off 50 yards to Wallace
who returned to the 35-yard line. Gettle hit right tackle for three yards. Gettle made three more over center. Davidson
was offside on the next play and it was first down on V. P. I.’s 46-yard line. Gettle hit left
tackle for a one-yard gain. Wallace lost one yard over left tackle. Flory made five yards over left tackle. Fourth
down and five to go, Rutherford punted 49 yards over the goal line and it was Davidson’s ball on her
own 20-yard line. Hunt hit center for no gain. Shepherd punted out on the 29-yard line. Wallace hit center for
five yards. Wallace ploughed through center for six yards and a first down on the 18-yard line. Rutherford made four
yards around right end. Rutherford failed to gain over left guard. Wallace hit center for seven yards and a first
down on the six-yard line. Gettle fumbled and recovered for a three-yard loss. Gettle made three yards over left guard.
On a sweeping end run Shepherd and Davis held Wallace to a three-yard gain. Fourth down and three to go.
Sorrels stopped Wallace on the one-yard line. Ball goes over. Laird went in for Shepherd at full. Laird punted to
Gettle on the 53-yard line. Wallace hit left guard for five yards. Gettle made four and a half yards over
left tackle. Gettle smashed through right guard for two yards and a first down on the 35-yard line. Rutherford circled
left end for five yards. Flory made two yards around right end. Nappy Davis threw Wallace for a two-yard loss
on a wide end run. Wallace hit left guard for six yards and a first down on the 24-yard line.
V. P. I. was penalized 15 yards for holding. Wallace made eight yards over left tackle. A pass, Wallace to
Baker, netted eight yards. Two passes were incomplete and it was Davidson’s ball on the 20-yard line. Hendrix made two
yards over center. Laird hit right tackle for no gain. Laird punted 18 yards to Rutherford who returned nine to
the 31-yard line. Rutherford hit right tackle for six yards. On the next play Baker was holding and Tech was
penalized 15 yards. A forward pass, Wallace to Gettle, netted 12 yards. Wallace passed to Tilson for a seven-yard gain
and first down on the 2-yard line. Gettle circled left end for 15 yards and a first down on the
five-yard line.Gettle hit left tackle for three yards. Quarter up. Score—Davidson, 0; V. P. I., 0.

SECOND QUARTER

Gettle made one and two-thirds yards over left guard. Six inches to go. Wallace carried the ball over with less
than a foot to spare. Rutherford drop-kicked goal. Score—Davidson, 0; V. P. I., 7.

Tilson kicked off 40 yards to Hendrix who returned 43 yards to V. P. I.’s 37-yard line. Hunt hit left
guard for two yards. Hendrix lost four yards around left end. Wilson intercepted a pass on the 38-yard line. Gettle
hit left tackle for no gain. Wallace made 13 yards over left tackle for a first down on Davidson's 48-yard
line. Wallace hit center for nine and a half yards and Gettle made it first down with four yards over
left guard. Rutherford smashed through left tackle for five yards. Laird intercepted a pass on the 25-yard line and dashed
75 yards to a touchdown. Laird place-kicked goal. Score—Davidson, 7; V. P. I., 7.

Brice kicked off 40 yards to Wallace, who returned 19 yards to the 30-yard line. Gettle made four yards over
left tackle. Flory made it first down with six yards through center. Gettle hit center for three yards. Wallace skirted
left end for six yards and made it first down by smashing center for three yards. Wallace gained three more
through center. Gettle circled right end for eight yards and a first down on Davidson's 28-yard line. Faison spilled Rutherford
for a six-yard loss. Tech was penalized 15 yards. A pass was grounded. Wallace passed to Hardwick for a six-yard
gain. Sorrels recovered Rutherford’s fumble on Davidson's 40-yard line. Hendrix hit right tackle for no gain. Hendrix circled left end
for four yards. A pass was grounded. Laird punted 20 yards out of bounds on V. P. I.’s 36-yard line.
Rutherford made one yard around right end. Wallace smashed through center for five yards. A pass, Wallace to Wilson, netted
three yards. Gettle tore through left guard for three yards and a first down on Tech's 48-yard line. Rutherford fumbled
and Nappy Davis recovered on Tech's 47-yard line. Sutton replaced Rutherford at half. Hunt hit left tackle for seven yards.
Laird made one over left tackle. Hunt hit center for five yards and a first down on the 36-yard line.
Laird gained one yard over center. Hendrix passed 25 yards to Davis on the 10-yard line. Hunt hit left tackle
for two feet. Hendrix made three yards around left end. Hunt hit left tackle for two yards. Hendrix passed to
Laird who ran out of bounds on the two-foot line. The ball goes over. Gettle punted out of bounds on
Tech’s 32-yard line. Flory intercepted a pass on the 26-yard line. Clark and Nappy Davis threw Sutton for a five-yard
loss. Nappy Davis threw Sutton for a four-yard loss. Gettle punted 18 yards to his own 35-yard line. A pass,
Hendrix to Hunt, netted nine yards. Pass incomplete. Hunt hit center for two yards and a first down on the
24-yard line. A pass was grounded. Wallace intercepted a pass on the 11-yard line. Wallace hit right tackle for one
yard. Nappy Davis stopped Sutton for no gain. Gettle punted to Davidson’s 45-yard line. Half up. Score—Davidson, 7; V. P.
I., 7.

THIRD QUARTER

Laird kicked off 40 yards to Sutton who returned 16 yards to his own 36-yard line. Faison threw Sutton for
a four-yard loss. Wallace lost two yards at center. Sutton made six at left end. Gettle punted 15 yards to
Davidson’s 48-yard line. Hunt hit center for four yards. Hendrix lost six at left end. Pass, Hendrix via Baker to
Hendrix, for a three-yard loss. Laird punted 27 yards to Sutton who returned to Tech's 47-yard line. Flory fumbled when
Sorrels hit him and Laird recovered on his own 49-yard line. Laird hit center for three yards. Pass, Hendrix to
Davis, incomplete. V. P. I. intercepted a pass on their own 48-yard line. Flory hit right tackle for two yards.
Flory smashed through center for five yards. Sutton hit center for two yards. Fourth down and one to go. Brice
stopped Wallace and the ball goes over on Davidson's 43-yard line. Hendrix lost five yards at left end. A pass,
Laird to Hendrix, netted six yards. Pass incomplete. Laird punted 27 yards to Sutton who returned 19 yards to V.
P. I.’s 49-yard line. Gettle made two yards at right end and Sutton gained one over right tackle. Wallace made
four yards at right tackle. Gettle punted over the goal line. Davidson's ball on her own 20-yard line. Martin went
in for DeArmon. Moore substituted for Rea. Hunt gained one foot at center. Laird punted 35 yards to Sutton who
returned 11 yards to Davidson’s 44-yard line. Gettle circled left end for four yards. V. P. I. penalized to the
50-yard line for illegal use of arms. Flory made nine yards at left tackle. Sutton lost four at left end.
V. P. I. was penalized 15 yards for holding. Ball on Tech's 45-yard line. Sutton made four yards at center.
Fourth down and 17 to go. Gettle punted to Davidson’s 15-yard line. Hunt made one yard over center out of
bounds. Hunt hit center for no gain. Martin punted 30 yards to Sutton who returned nine to Davidson’s 42-yard line.
Gettle made five at left tackle. Flory made one at left tackle. Gettle made five yards over left tackle for
a first down. Sutton made eight at left tackle. Quarter up. Score—Davidson, 7; V. P. I., 7.

FOURTH QUARTER

Gettle ploughed through center for six yards and a first down. Flory made one at right tackle. Wallace made three
at left guard. Sutton hit center for one yard. Martin threw Sutton for a five-yard loss on an end run.
The ball goes over on the 15-yard line. Hunt made one yard at center. Martin punted 52 yards to Sutton
on V. P. I.'s 38-yard line. Faison, Davis, and Martin ran Sutton back to the 24-yard line. Wallace made six
yards at left tackle. Wallace hit center for 10 yards and a first down. Wallace made five yards at right
tackle and Gettle made three more over the same place. Sorrels threw Wallace for a one-yard loss. Gettle punted to
Davidson's nine-yard line. Ball caught by V. P. I. man. Touchback, giving Davidson the ball on her 20-yard line. Hunt
made five yards at left tackle. Laird made one yard at left tackle. Ray for Graham. Martin punted 49 yards
to Sutton who returned five yards to the 31-yard line. Wallace made five yards over left tackle. Wallace hit center
for four yards. Rhodes for Wilson. Wallace ran through left tackle 16 yards for a first down on Davidson's 45-yard
line. Gettle hit center for five yards. Buchanan for Flory. Sutton made four yards around left end. Sutton made two
yards at center for a first down. Nappy Davis threw Wallace for a four-yard loss at right end. Moore for
Hendrix. A pass, Wallace to Rhodes, netted 25 yards and a first down on the 13-yard line. Attempted place-kick failed.
Davidson’s ball on her 20-yard line. Dick for Moore. Hunt hit right tackle for three yards. Game over. Score—Davidson, 7;
V. P. I., 7.

DAVIDSON (7) Position V. P. I. (7)
Davis; Ceasar, Hardwick (c) Left End Tilson
Sorrels Left Tackle Rae
Baker Center Sheretz
Davis, S. M. (a. c.) Right Guard Graham
Faison Right Tackle Wilson
DeArmon Left Half Flory
Rutherford Right Half Laird
Gettle Fullback Wallace
Quarter

Score by periods:
DAVIDSON 0 7 0 0—7
V. P. I. 0 7 0 0—7

Davidson scoring—Touchdown: Laird; try for point, Laird.
V. P. I. scoring—Touchdown: Wallace; try for point, Rutherford.

Referee—Goss (Lehigh); umpire, Sampson, (St. Albans); head linesman, Major, (Auburn). Linesman for Davidson—McFadden. Periods—15; 12; 15; 12.

V. P. I. substitutions—Sutton for Rutherford; Moore for Rae; Ray for Graham; Rhodes for Wilson; Buchanan for Flory.
Davidson substitutions—Laird for Shepherd; Moore for Hendrix; Dick for Moore; Martin for DeArmon.

Davidson College is a church institution controlled by Trustees elected by the presbyteries of the Synods of North Carolina, Georgia,
and Florida, together with six from the Alumni Association.
