THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

WILDCATS TRAVEL AERIAL ROUTE
(Continued from page 1)

doing some extra fine kicking. In the Blue and White line, Captain Poindexter proved to be the mainstay. He is
big and is a hard worker, many Wildcat plays coming to grief because of him. Davidson had one other good
chance to score. In the third quarter, they got the ball on their 41-yard line and by using straight football
entirely, they carried the oval to Carolina’s 17-yard line. But the Blue and White stiffened their defense and the ball
went over on downs.

FIRST QUARTER
Carolina won the toss and elected to receive, Davidson defending the west goal. Shepherd kicked off 25 yards to Cochran
who attempted to pass the ball to a man behind him. Spratt Moore intercepted the pass and carried the ball
to Carolina’s 35-yard line. Shepherd made four yards in two plunges at left tackle, but Poindexter stopped Moore in a
third attempt at the spot. Hendrix then attempted a pass but it was grounded.

Leadership — CHERO-COLA
GRAPE-MELO ORANGE-MELO ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros.
Next to Post Office

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

After Every

Carolina's ball on her 29-yard line. Merritt hit right guard for three yards and McDonald added five through the same
position. Merritt ploughed center for six yards and first down. McMasters stopped McGee, but Johnson went through left tackle for
another first down. On a lateral pass, Johnson circled right end for four yards. Merritt made six yards and first
down in two tries at center. Faison stopped Johnson at right end but Davidson was offside, giving Carolina first on
the 30-yard line. Davis stopped Johnson without a gain and Carolina was penalized 15 yards for holding. Johnson made 20
yards when his interference tackled Faison, but the ball was brought back to Carolina's 43-yard line. McDonald made five yards
at left tackle. A pass, McDonald to Morris, was grounded. McDonald punted out of bounds on Davidson's 10-yard line. Shepherd
replied with a 50-yard punt to midfield. Carolina’s ball on the 50-yard line. McGee plunged through right tackle for nine
yards and Merritt made it first down with four at center. Carolina was penalized five yards for offside, but McGee
got it back by a smash at right tackle. Merritt ticked off 10 yards and first down around right end
and added nine at center. McGee made five and first down at center. Carolina's ball on the 11-yard line. Cox
substituted for Clark. Faison broke through and stopped Johnson without a gain. Time for Carolina. Johnson drove off left tackle
for 10 yards and first down. On the next play, Merritt hurdled the line for the remaining yard and a
touchdown. Blount place-kicked goal. Carolina, 7; Davidson, 0. Shepherd kicked off 45 yards to Johnson who returned 30 to the
43-yard line. Quarter up. Carolina, 7; Davidson, 0.

SECOND QUARTER
Carolina’s ball on her 43-yard line. McGee made four yards over right guard before Cox stopped him. McDonald skirted left
end for 12 yards and first down. Sorrells stopped McGee at left guard, but Merritt went around right end for
five yards. On the next play, Merritt was caught holding and Carolina was penalized to her 45-yard line. A pass,
McDonald to Cochran, was grounded and McDonald punted to Hendrix on the six-yard line. The speedy quarter returned the pigskin
23 yards to his own 29-yard line. Shepherd and Moore made a first down in two drives off left tackle.
Davidson fumbled but recovered. Shepherd made three yards in two attempts at left tackle. Shepherd punted but McIver was holding.
On his second attempt, Shepherd punted out of bounds on Carolina's 33-yard line. On a lateral pass, Johnson carried the
pigskin 23 yards to Davidson's 44-yard line. First down. Merritt made four at left end but a pass, McDonald to
Morris, lost a yard. McGee made three at center and Merritt two at right tackle. Davidson's ball on her 20-yard
line. Shepherd made two yards on a sweeping end run. Carolina penalized 15 yards for holding, giving Davidson the ball
on Carolina's 47-yard line and first down. Hunt made two at right tackle, but a pass, Hendrix to Davis, failed
to gain. Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. A pass, Shepherd to Davis, failed by inches. Shepherd punted out of
bounds on Carolina’s 35-yard line. McGee trickled around right end for 26 yards and a first down. Long was substituted
for Cox. Johnson made four yards at left end before McGee took another 28-yard trip around Davidson's left flank. Time
for Davidson. Merritt was stopped without a gain at center by Brice. Mallory went in for Nappy Davis. Johnson failed
to gain around Faison’s end. McGee went over left end for a touchdown. Blount failed to place-kick goal. Carolina, 13;
Davidson, 0. Sparrow went in for McGee. Johnson kicked off 40 yards to Hendrix who returned 10 yards to his
30-yard line. Hunt went out of bounds but failed to gain at right end. Shepherd shot a pass to Moore
for an 18-yard gain. First down. A pass, Hendrix to Hunt, was grounded. Shepherd and Hendrix gained two yards on
a pass. Merritt intercepted one of Hendrix's passes on his 43-yard line. Time out Carolina. A forward pass, Merritt to
Cochran, made 18 yards and first down. McDonald and Morris then worked a pass for 10 yards, placing the ball
on Davidson's 23-yard line. Time out, Carolina. Carolina penalized two yards for too much time out. Sparrow dropped back to
his 38-yard line and booted a field goal. Carolina, 16; Davidson, 0. Johnson kicked off 55 yards to Hunt who
returned 13 yards to his 18-yard line. Half up. Carolina, 16; Davidson, 0.

SECOND HALF
Shepherd kicked off 50 yards to Johnson who ran the ball back to his 35-yard mark. Randolph plowed through center
for 12 yards and a first down. Carolina penalized 15 yards for holding. Johnson attempted an end run but Carolina
was again penalized 15 yards for holding. Merritt made five yards around left end. Carolina penalized for two yards. Sparrow
punted out of bounds on Davidson's 41-yard line. Moore and Shepherd made first down in two smashes at the right
side of the line. Moore hit right tackle for three yards and Shepherd followed him at the same place with
six. Hunt made six and first down through left tackle. Shepherd hit tackle twice and made seven yards. Hunt added
another first down. Davidson's ball on Carolina’s 21-yard line. Time out for Carolina. Shepherd, Hunt, and Moore each tried to
smash the line but their efforts...made only four yards. Moore attempted a forward pass but it was grounded. Ball goes
over on the 17-yard line. Randolph made three at center. Merritt added five at left tackle and Randolph made it
first down with six through right tackle. McDonald attempted an end run but Carolina was penalized 15 yards for holding.
Carolina was then penalized five yards for offside, ball on 11-yard line. Bomar made three at left end but Randolph
failed at center. Sparrow punted out of bounds on Davidson's 46-yard line. Time out for Davidson. Moore lost five yards
at right end and Randolph intercepted a pass on Davidson's 48-yard line. Bomar made five at right tackle, Merritt and
Randolph made seven and first down at center. Sparrow smashed left tackle for 12 yards and first down. Merritt plugged
left tackle for three, Randolph hit right tackle for one and Merritt added five at the same spot. Bomar made
first down with three at center. Ball on 12-yard line. Merritt made six yards in two tries at the line,
Sparrow found an opening for two at center and Randolph plunged through center for four yards and a touchdown. Sparrow
drop-kicked goal. Carolina, 23; Davidson, 0. Sparrow kicked off 50 yards to Moore, who returned 15 yards to the 25-yard
line. Quarter up. Carolina, 23; Davidson, 0.

FOURTH QUARTER

Shepherd went through tackle for six yards and Hunt added one. Shepherd failed at right end and punted to Sparrow
on Carolina’s 30-yard line. Sparrow returned 12 yards. Randolph, Bomar and Merritt could make but four yards at center but
Sparrow punted out of bounds on Davidson's 29-yard line. Moore made one at center, but Shepherd lost two at left
tackle. Hendrix got off a fine pass to Davis, gaining 32 yards and putting the ball on Carolina’s 35-yard line.
Hendrix and Moore failed at passing, but Faison nabbed one for 12 yards and another first down. Hendrix and Moore
again failed but Nappy grabbed one of Jim’s tosses for a 23-yard gain and a touchdown. The drop-kick was blocked.
Carolina, 23; Davidson, 6. Shepherd kicked off 45 yards to Bomar who returned to his 29-yard line. Tenney hit left
tackle for two. Sparrow contributed four and Bomar added one. Sparrow punted 50 yards to Hendrix who returned to his
31-yard line. McIver intercepted a pass thrown by Hendrix on Davidson’s 41-yard line. A pass, Sparrow to Tenney, gained one
yard. Carolina penalized 15 yards for holding. A pass was grounded and Sparrow punted to Hendrix on the eight-yard line.
Bomar made a first down in two tries at the line. Bomar made three through left tackle. A pass was
grounded but another, Sparrow to Shepherd, gained 19. Ball on Davidson's 11-yard line. Tenney made four at left tackle. Sparrow
added two at the same place. Tenney again plugged left tackle for two. Sparrow hit center for two yards, giving
the Tar Heels a first down by a scant three inches. Tenney rammed his way through center for a touchdown.
Sparrow failed to drop-kick goal. Carolina, 29; Davidson, 6. Sparrow kicked off over the goal line. Davidson’s ball on 20-yard
line. Shepherd’s pass to Faison was grounded and another was intercepted by Whitley on Davidson’s 36-yard line. Sparrow’s first two
passes were grounded and Shepherd intercepted his third attempt on Davidson’s 30-yard line. Hendrix's pass to Davis was intercepted by
Shepherd. Sparrow punted over the goal line. Davidson's ball on her 20-yard line. Hendrix threw two passes but they were
grounded. Time up. Carolina, 29; Davidson, 6.

N. C. (29) DAVIDSON (6)
RO MOPHS crisd.5 sins etatredenn ooh ae Faison Left End
Matthews McMaster Left Tackle
Pritchard S. Davis Left Guard
Blount Brice Center
Poindexter Sorrells Right Guard
McIver Aiken Right Tackle
Clarke Cochran Right End
McDonald Hendrix Quarterback
Merritt Shepherd Left Half
Moore Fullback

Score by periods:
North Carolina 7 9 7 6—29
Davidson 0 0 0 6—6

North Carolina scoring: Touchdowns, Merritt, McGee, Randolph (substitute for Johnson), Tenney (substitute for Randolph). Points from touchdown, Blount and Sparrow
(substitute for McGee), one out of two attempts each, using drop kicks; field goal, Sparrow. Davidson scoring: Touchdown, C. M.
Davis. Referee, Sampson (St. Albans), Umpire, Perry (Sewanee). Head-linesman, Izzard (Washington and Lee). Time of periods, 15 minutes each.

ROARING EXTRAVAGANZA (Continued from Page 1)
Elkins, W. H. Crane, E. A. West, L. B. Finn,
Nubian Slaves—W. S. Buchanan, J. M. Adams.
Khediva, master of the revels....S. C. Fain
Sultan of Sarawak ...... O. J. Allison
J. B. Bryan
Alvan Chi T. L. Fraser
Interlocutor Gettys Guille
Accompanist F. Northrop

This stupendous show of minstrelsy will be the crowning event of Senior Week, and will terminate the gay celebration. The
Senior class is keeping the campus completely in the dark as to other plans for the week, but give assurance
that the ’23 Senior Week will be unparalleled, unprecedented and never to be forgotten.

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

VAUDEVILLE
CLAUDE LEE, Manager
Thursday 23rd - Friday 24th - Saturday 25th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director
Overture—"Three Dances From Hey Vill"
PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
Selection—"Bombo" Fox-trot

RAY G. HULING Presents “The Clown Seal”
A Comedian From the Sea—The Most Wonderful Trained Animal in Captivity.

COFFMAN AND CARROL In “Two Tones of Brown”
A Funny Blackface Act

“THE THREE RUBES” (Bowers, Walter & Crocker)
Indescribably Funny

JOHNNY ECKERT AND AL HARRISON
A Wireless Comedy “Another Message”

THE FOUR MADCAPS
Excellent Singing and Dancing

Make Your Seat Reservations Now

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS PIANOS
Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE
