6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922.

Keen interest has developed in the editorial contest, which is open to every Southern college and university, the subject being, “Contributions of the College Newspaper to College Life.” Additional interest is likewise aroused in the journalistic contest. As yet, definite arrangements for the program have not been completed, nevertheless, the most absorbing item that will likely come up before the open discussions will be ways and means of making the association a greater functioning body. Many things have developed since the initial gathering at the University of Richmond that will call for legislation. The Southern Association of Newspaper Publishers has heartily endorsed annually the gold medal for the editorial contest. Davidson will probably be represented at the convention by H. H. Smith.

NOTICE! NOTICE!
The interest of the alumni at Commencement this year will center around a free alumni banquet, which is to be given in the alumni gymnasium on Wednesday, May 31, at 1:00 o'clock. It is desired that all alumni intending to be present shall make arrangements ahead. Those classes desiring class banquets may also make arrangements. This is to be the biggest Commencement program ever put on at Davidson. It will be of especial interest to all the alumni because examinations are to continue up to and through commencement and will thus give the alumni opportunity to see the student body in action, a thing not done before. Mr. R. M. Miller, who is president of the Alumni Association, is gratified with indications of a good alumni attendance and very optimistic over the prospects. He is also pleased that time has been allowed this year in which to transact alumni business, from 1:00 to 4:00 o’clock on Wednesday having been set aside for this purpose.
—Alumni Editor.

MARRIAGES.
A marriage of statewide interest took place in Charlotte last week when Mr. J. Harvey Orr, ex-’18, was married to Miss Mildred Barbour. The ceremony was a simple one, being performed at the home of the bride’s grandmother, Mrs. Walter Mullen, and in the presence of only a few intimate friends. Immediately after the ceremony Mr. and Mrs. Orr left for a two weeks’ trip north. Mr. Orr is associated in business with Sanders and Orr, of Charlotte.

ENGAGEMENT ANNOUNCED.
Mr. Carl Emmett Rankin, '17, is to be married soon to Miss Louise Winston Goodwin. Mr. Rankin, who is the son of Mr. and Mrs. M. J. Rankin, of Gibsonville, N. C., is a member of the faculty of Columbia University. He may be addressed at S. A. E. House, 331 W. 113th St., Columbia University, N. Y.

HERE AND THERE.
The following alumni were over to help boost the Davidson nine in the State game last Saturday: Dr. Yates Faison, '06; Mr. L. H. Wilkinson, ’12; Dr. J. P. Monroe, Dr. R. H. Lafferty; Mr. J. (“Joe”) T. Crayton, all of Charlotte. There were also Mr. W. W. Flowe, of Concord; Mr. R. P. Graham, of Cooleemee, and C. K. Brown, ’21. Dr. Sloop, ’97, is a physician with a large practice at Crossnore, N. C. He manufactures his own electricity and that of the surrounding community. He is still enthusiastic over the doings of Davidson’s athletic teams. D. W. Lowrance, ex-’22, is at Mooresville, N. C. He hopes to enter college again next fall. “At” Wood, class of ’20, is in business with his father at Asheville, N. C. He was a noted shortstop and forward on the basketball team while here. Ralph Kaiser, ’21, is making good in the insurance business in Charlotte. Dwight Chalmers and his mother spent the weekend in Charlotte. Miss Bessie Chalmers came up from Winsboro and the family had a short reunion. Dr. Thurston, ’02, is a successful physician at Taylorsville, N. C.

WHO, WHAT AND WHERE.
It is intended to run each week under this heading the names of ten alumni with information as to where they are and what they are doing. It is hoped that this will be a means of providing information to the alumni at large who cannot otherwise know the activities of their classmates.
—Alumni Editor.

J. L. Adams, ’06, is located in Gastonia, N. C.
C. W. Adicks, '09, is in Greenville, S. C.
J. R. Alexander, ’93, is at 308 Tenth Ave., Charlotte, N. C.
U. S. Alexander, ’15, may be addressed at 10 W. Hill Street, Charlotte, N.C.
W. T. Allen, Jr., ’20, is a wholesale druggist in Nashville, Tenn. He is with the Berry-Demoville and Company.
Dr. J. L. Anderson, ’03, is practicing medicine in Greenville, S. C.
L. H. Anderson, ’15, is in the automobile business in Anderson, S. C.
C. B. Bailey, ’14, is in the knitting mill business in Greenwood, S. C.

DAVIDSON MEN FIND PLACES AS NEXT YEAR’S TEACHERS
Dr. J. M. McConnell, who is in charge of securing teaching positions for members of the graduating class, states that he is prepared to place practically every man who desires such a position. He states that alumni who are interested in seeing Davidson men in schools at any particular location may communicate with him and he will try to make such arrangements.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS SHORT STUDENT SPEECHES
The regular meeting of the Ministerial Band was held Sunday afternoon. Henry Patterson brought several matters of business before the Band, among which was that of a Fellowship that is being organized to unite students of America for the Evangelization of the United States. No action was taken concerning the Band’s joining this Fellowship as sufficient information was not at hand. It was decided that a committee be appointed to draw up a constitution for the Band. Frank Johnston made a short and inspirational talk on “Witnessing for Christ.” He spoke about the influence of a Christian, using the example of the influence of Naomi’s life on the heathen Ruth, whom she converted to Christianity. A Christian must bear fruits or his life will profit nothing, said Johnston, pointing out the fig tree which withered because it had no fruit to give the Master. L. A. Taylor then spoke briefly on “Getting Alone With God.” Taking no text, but using the experiences of Christ as He walked alone in the garden and in other places, Tink told of the advantages that any young man would have in getting alone with his Creator, and that only at such times could one feel the very presence of God. There is a period in the life of every man when he wonders if there truly is a God. At such times Emotion must take precedent over Reason. “Be still and know that I am God.”

SOUTHERN INTERCOLLEGIATE ASSOCIATION WILL CONVENE
After considerable delay the time and place of the second annual Southern Intercollegiate Newspaper Association convention have been decided and Furman University, at Greenville, S. C., will be the host April 28 and 29. Efforts were made early in the year to locate the next gathering of the college journalists more in the center of the territory covered by the youthful organization. Greenville, located in the southern part of South Carolina, serves this purpose. With final selection made, invitations have been mailed to every college and university in the South to send representatives and this convention is apparently to be largely attended. Both men and women are eligible as delegates. New members have been reported by the regional vice presidents, and the membership of the association will evidently increase materially by the meeting time.

THREE-DAY TRIP ARRANGED FOR WILDCAT SONGSTERS
A concert Monday evening at Queens College is the first program of a three-day trip of the Davidson College Glee Club. The second program will be given Tuesday evening at the graded school auditorium at Mooresville, and the third Wednesday evening at Mitchell College at Statesville. The program is to consist of popular songs by the entire club and numbers by the Wildcat quartet, the Mandolin-Guitar club, and the Wildcat Jazz orchestra. In every case the program will be opened with the song “College Ties,” and closed with “O Davidson.” A splendid added attraction will be the famous farce drama, “In Roman Days,” which is enacted by Bob McLeod, Bugs Robison and Bill Bogart.be presented will be “The Gypsy Trail,” by the entire club; “Bow-Wow Blues,” by the orchestra; “Washington Post March,” by the Mandolin-Guitar club, and “I'm Wild About Moonshine,” by the quartet.

D. DAVIDSON DEBATERS

(Continued from page 1)

given the visitors by members of the Senior and Junior classes of Queens. This part of the program was probably the most enjoyed. The debate was of a very high order and the subject matter presented by each of the four speakers indicated a deep study of the question discussed, while the delivery and stage appearance in every case was splendid. The four speakers came back strong on rebuttal, the closeness of the debate being indicated by the three to two decision of the five judges. Davidson has won 18 out of 27 debates in the 14 years of its debating life. Seven of these have been with Wake Forest. Of these Davidson has won four.

D. HUGH MURRILL, JR.

(Continued from page 1)

championship. In three years of coaching, in the Army and out of it, each year at a different place and under different conditions, teams coached by Murrill won 24 out of 27 games played. Mr. Murrill resigned his commission in 1920 to enter business with his father in the Queen City Printing Co., of Charlotte, N. C. He is a stockholder and secretary of the company, which has necessitated his refusing many lucrative coaching positions in the past. Davidson was able to secure his services because of her nearness to Charlotte which will enable him to devote his mornings to the office and his afternoons to the football field. Mr. Murrill will spend his vacation, during the month of September, at Davidson, and so will be on hand morning and afternoon during the first and all-important month of the season.

Three prizes of $100, $50, and $25 to undergraduate students of Indiana colleges for essays on, “Why the Volstead Act should be upheld,” are offered by the Indiana W. C. T. U. The contest closes April 26th.

Tuxedos are worn by ushers at basketball games at Columbia University and the University of Pennsylvania, according to news reports.

Teacher—“What is the highest form of animal life?”
School Boy—“The giraffe.”

C. FERBER WHITE, Sales Eng.
911 Commercial Nat'l. Bank Bldg
Charlotte

PRINTING STATIONERY OFFICE SUPPLIES

STATESVILLE PRINTING CO.
Statesville, N. C.

BRADY COMPANY
ARE THE FOLKS TO SEE!

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N.C.
231 S. TRYON ST.

LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON
“The phonograph with a soul”
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers

A HOME COMPANY
A HOME BUILDER

REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
H. J. Spencer, Mgr.

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life If you have a NEW EDISON in the home. If you do not have one you are missing a lot.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.

DWIGHT CHALMERS DELIVERS

(Continued from page 1)

of God was in the idea “Father.” This idea makes it easier to understand the great problems of life, such as sin and death. His belief in prayer was based on the fact that God is our Father and it is our duty and privilege to ask His advice and guidance all through our lives. The highest definition of prayer is a life of friendship with God, our Father. It was then brought out that prayer is answered only when it is in perfect accord with divine will. He ended with a plea for everyone to continue to grow and develop in spiritual things by companionships with Godly men and by study of the Bible.

D. VACHEL LINDSAY

(Continued from page 1)

eral Booth, Enters Into Heaven,” “The Santa Fe Trail,” “Golden Whales of California,” etc. He is counted in the same class with such poets as Edwin Arlington Robinson, Robert Frost, and Edward Lee Masters. Some of the outstanding qualities of Lindsay’s work are the love of beauty, a distinct spirit of reform, intensely American themes and ideals, a wide range of subjects, and a belief that poetry is primarily intended to be read aloud. As one of a series of literary portraits the Bookman has the following pen picture of Lindsay by Christopher Morley: “Vachel is ruddy, sandy-haired, middle-sized, with eyes the color of a green twilight and pale eyebrows surmounted by two remarkable bumps. According to my phrenology, one of the bumps represents love of Springfield, Ill., and the other love of a square meal with plenty of talk. Vachel has endured as much adulation, female twitter, and homage as any other five American poets. He is the only living American poet who has been lionized in England. None of this business can spoil him: he is permanently simple, and permanently shrewd and sane; there is not a gram of bunk in him. He has a startling sense of humor; when he laughs, the neighborhood echoes.” Lindsay was born in Springfield, Ill. After completing his high school and college courses he went to Chicago and New York for additional study. For three winters he lectured at the West Side Y. M. C. A. in New York. In 1912 he took a walking trip from Illinois to New Mexico, paying for his meals at farm houses by rhymes and ballads. This trip furnished the material for his poem “The Santa Fe Trail.” Current Opinion says of him: “Not since the days of Walt Whitman and Jack London has America produced a literary figure so democratic and so distinct as that of Vachel Lindsay.” His coming to Davidson will be one of the outstanding literary events of the year.

WILDCAT BASEBALL TEAM

(Continued from page 1)

drive but couldn’t get his man at first. Freeman pumped a single to right, clogging the cushions. Brice batted for Sorrells and rolled to Redfern, but Parsons missed the shortfielder’s peg and McMillan and McLeod galloped through the scoring zone. Davidson wasted many chances to score, nine Wildcats being left stranded on the corners. On three occasions they had a runner on third with no one out but failed to register, while each State run came in an inning opened by one or two men going out. Box score:

Davidson.
M. Erwin, 2b
L. Erwin, ss
Brown, rf
Crawford, 1b
Pritchett, cf
McMillan, c
McLeod, lf
Freeman, 3b
Boushee, p
Sorrells, p
McPherson, p
xxMarrow

N. C. State.
ab r h po a e
Ruth, cf
Norwood, lf
Johnson, rf
Redfern, ss
Holland, 3b
Parsons, 1b
Allen, p

Score by innings: R.
Davidson 000 000 200—2
N. C. State 100 105 002—9

Summary—Two-base hits: McMillan, Freeman, Johnson; three-base hits: Boushee, Freeman, Johnson; stolen bases: Ruth (2), Norwood, Johnson, Holland (2), Crawford, Pritchett; total bases: State 18, Davidson 16; double play: L. Erwin to McMillan to Crawford; walked: by Allen 1, by Boushee 3, by McPherson 1; struck out: by Allen 5, by Boushee 4; umpire: Irby; time: 2 hours and 10 minutes.