THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

WILDCATS BLANK ELONITES
(Continued from Page 1)

assessed 60 yards of penalties which kept them from scoring. Twice Spratt was called back after gains of over 10 yards and the ball was put in play 25 yards in the other direction. Captain Perry, of Elon, played a steady game and did the punting for the Elonites. Clarke and Flynn on the flanks did stellar work, throwing the runners for no gain several times.

One of the bright spots of the game was the Wildcats’ aerial attack. In the first half one pass was intercepted and one fell incomplete but in the second half six out of seven passes were made good for a gain of 72 yards. Moore, Crawford, and Hendrix passed with equal skill and Faison, Mallory, and Hastie pulled down the pigskin with unerring accuracy.

The game play by play:

FIRST QUARTER.
Regen kicked off 47 yards to Gantz who returned 18 yards to the 26-yard line. Gantz plunged through right tackle for five yards. Kirkland made one over right guard. On a wide end run Regen threw Gantz for a loss of half a yard. Perry punted 38 yards and Dick returned six yards. Davidson's ball on her own 46-yard line. Dick fumbled and Elon recovered. Elon’s ball on Davidson's 37-yard line. Gantz made two over left guard. Perry gained three off left tackle. Perry smashes through for another yard. Perry punted to Davidson's two-yard line. Nappy hit right tackle for a one-yard gain. Shepherd punted 60 yards to Gantz, who fumbled and recovered on his 37-yard line. Kirkland skirts right end for one yard. Long intercepts Perry's pass. Davidson's ball on Elon’s 34-yard line. Spratt gains three on a line buck. Nappy goes through left tackle for two yards. Spratt gains six but Clark is offside. Fourth and ten. Gantz intercepts Shepherd’s pass on Elon’s 31-yard line. Forward pass is grounded. Fix steps around left end for four yards. Another pass is incomplete and Perry punts 39 yards out of bounds. Davidson’s ball on her 26-yard line. On an off-tackle play Gig plunges through for 10 yards and a first down. Spratt hits right tackle for five yards. Regen punts 44 yards to Gantz who returned nine yards. Fix fumbles and Nappy recovers on Elon’s 27-yard line. Spratt gains five yards on an off-tackle buck. Quarter up. Davidson, 0. Elon, 0.

SECOND QUARTER.
Davidson's ball on Elon’s 22-yard line. Second down and five to go. Gig made one over left guard. Moore hit right tackle for five yards and a first down. Nappy hit left tackle for two yards. Nappy made one yard around right end. Spratt went through left tackle and ran 13 yards through the Elon team to a touchdown. Shepherd’s place kick went wide. Score: Davidson, 6; Elon, 0. Smith kicked off 43 yards to Nappy who returned 22 yards to the 34-yard line. Nappy was out of bounds on a wide end run. No gain. Moore plunged through left tackle for a first down. Spratt slipped through left tackle for 10 yards. Nappy plunged through for a four-yard gain. On the next play Davidson was penalized five yards for offside. Regen’s pass is incomplete. Regen punts 30 yards. Perry fumbles and Montague Clark recovers. Davidson's ball on Elon’s 16-yard line. Davis made five yards over left guard. Davis gained three yards over guard and on an off-tackle play, Gig made it first down on Elon’s six-yard line. Spratt bucked the line for two yards. Gig went through four yards to a touchdown. Shepherd’s place kick failed. Score: Davidson, 12; Elon, 0. Coach Grey sends in the scrubs. Smith kicked off 45 yards to Hunt who returns 26 yards to the 36-yard line. Boggs fumbled and recovered for a five-yard gain. Martin on a wide end run gained nine yards. Hunt made four yards but Davidson was offside. Ball on Davidson's 44-yard line. Boggs tore eight yards through center for a first down. Hunt made six yards through center. Martin made one yard over guard. Pass, Hendrix to Hastie nets 25 yards. Hunt made five over right guard. Boggs smashes through center for two yards. Davidson's Half up.

THIRD QUARTER.
Smith kicked off 25 yards to Cox who returned eight to the 38-yard line. Crawford gains two yards over right tackle. Crawford fails to gain over left tackle. Regen punts 29 yards to Perry on Elon’s 31-yard line. Kirkland fails to gain on a line buck. On a bad pass from center White broke through and threw Perry for a 10-yard loss. Perry punts 39 yards to Covington who returns 18. Martin hammers through right tackle for a three-yard gain. Crawford gains three yards through right tackle. Covington steps off six yards around right end for a first down on Elon’s 28-yard line. Covington gains three over a wide end run. Crawford hits left tackle for three yards. Martin gains three yards over right guard. Fourth down and one to go. Crawford fails on a line buck and the ball goes over. Elon’s ball on her 19-yard line. Elon fumbles and Martin recovers, Davidson's ball on Elon’s 20-yard line. Martin fails to gain on two line bucks and an end run. Fourth down and 10 to go. Crawford passes to Faison for a 13-yard gain. Martin gains one yard on two line bucks. Hendrix is thrown for a one-yard loss on an end run. Forward pass over the goal line, Hendrix to Faison nets seven yards and a touchdown. Forward pass from place-kick formation is blocked. No goal. Score: Davidson, 18; Elon, 0. Smith kicked off 35 yards to Hendrix who returned 17. Davidson's ball on her 31-yard line. Regen steps off 29 yards around right end. Martin gains seven over left tackle. Crawford gains four yards over tackle for a first down. Covington makes six yards over left tackle. Martin skirts right end for five yards and a first down. Davidson’s ball on Elon’s 20-yard line. Quarter up.

FOURTH QUARTER.
The first team goes back in. Shepherd gained five yards over right tackle. Out of bounds. Shepherd plunges through center for two yards. Moore hits left tackle for an eight-yard gain and first down. Davidson’s ball on Elon’s five-yard line. Hunt makes three yards over left tackle. Shepherd carries the ball over for a touchdown. Moore's forward pass failed. Score: Davidson, 24; Elon, 0.

Shepherd

Bill’s Bull
One big one gone, gang! Let’s get number two!!

—WILDCATS—
1919—Davidson, 0; P. C. 0.
1920—Davidson, 0; P. C. 7.
1921—Davidson, 7; P. C. 0.
1922—Davidson, ?; P. C. ?
Get ’Em Cats!

—WILDCATS—
Dick’s 34-yard sprint through the whole Elon team earns first prize in Saturday's game, while second prize goes to Hastie and Hendrix for their 25-yard pass. Mallory cops the booby prize of a diamond-studded stomach pump with his “Here Coach!” Boy! Page Charlie!!

—WILDCATS—
Wake Forest was the only other North Carolina college team in action last week. The Baptist had an easy time of it, running over Atlantic Christian College, 34-0. The Wildcats tie up with Hard-shelled lads on October 14 to avenge the defeat of last year. Can we do it? Will we do it? Ask Big Mac—he knows.

—WILDCATS—
Our Presbyterian brethren in Virginia, Hampden-Sidney, fared rather poorly on Saturday, going down before V. P. I. to a 38-0 defeat. Last year the Cadets were hard pressed to nose out a 13-7 victory and H.-S. is looking forward to a better season this year than last. Looks like our Home-Coming Day.opponents mean business. —WILDCATS—

And that reminds us—October 21 has been chosen as Home-Coming Day by the powers that be. V.P.I. will be the main attraction on Sprunt Field on that day and a hot affair is assured. Talk it up, gang!

—WILDCATS—

Despite the fact that the Wildcats take a trip this week, local gridiron fans have a treat in store for them. Dick Grey, Riggs McConnell, and Company tie up with Concord Hi, and a battle royal is promised.

Perry gains five yards on two tackle plays. Hainer goes through left tackle for two yards. Perry punts out of bounds to Davidson's 32-yard line. Gig gained nine yards over tackle. Spratt circled left end for 16 yards and first down. Hunter gained five over right tackle but Davidson was penalized 15 yards for holding. Davidson penalized 45 yards for unnecessary roughness. Third down and 40 yards to go. On a perfect fake, Dick turned and raced 34 yards through the entire Elon team for the longest gain of the day. Moore made 12 yards but Davidson was penalized 15 yards for holding. Hunter punted back of the line from the 44-yard mark. Elon’s ball on her 20-yard line. Forward pass falls incomplete. McAdams gains four yards through center. Perry’s pass is grounded. Perry punts 26 yards. Dick fails to complete pass. Spratt loses one yard on an end run. Spratt passes 11 yards to Mallory for a first down. Spratt gains four yards. Davidson is penalized 10 yards for holding. Spratt passes 15 yards and Moore returns four to Elon’s 40-yard line. Time up.

DAVIDSON (24) ELON (0)
POSITION
Regen .......... Left End .......... Clark
G. Brown ...... Left Tackle ...... Whitesell
Braxton ........ Center ............ Smith
High ............ Right Guard ...... McMasters
Smith .......... Right Tackle ...... Flynn
Dick ............ Right End ........ Perry (c)
Shepherd ...... Quarterback ...... Gantz
Moore (c) ...... Left Half .......... Kirkland
Davis, C. M. ... Right Half ........ McAdams
Touchdowns—Moore, 1; Shepherd, 2; Faison, 1.
Umpire—MacDule (N.C. State); Referee—Major (Clemson); Head Linesman—Hill (S.C.). Time of quarters—12; 15; 12; 15.

Substitutions—Davidson: Hunt for Davis; Martin for Moore; Boggs for Shepherd; Hendrix for Dick; Hasty for Faison; White for McMasters; Baldwin for Long; Briggs for Brice; Summers for Fields; Cox for Clark; Mallory for Regen; Hodgin for Baldwin; Crawford for Martin; Martin for Hunt; Covington for Boggs; Faison for Hasty; Regen for Mallory; Hunt for Martin; Shepherd for Covington; Moore for Crawford; Dick for Hendrix; Fields for Summers; Long for Hodgin; Brice for Briggs; Clarke for Cox; McMasters for White; Mallory for Regen; Davis for Faison; Hunter for Shepherd. Elon: Fix for Kirkland; Hainer for Fix; A. Brown for G. Brown; Barker for Braxton; Braxton for High; Lawson for Braxton; G. Brown for Gantz; Braxton for Barker; Fix for Kirkland.

Elon
First downs .......... 0
Yards penalized ...... 75
Yards gained on running plays .. 277
Yards lost ............ 34
Yards gained on forward passes .. 72
Net total ............ 347
Average length punts .. 41
Average return punts .. 6
Average length kick-off .. 45
Average return kick-off .. 18
Passes attempted ...... 9
Passes completed ...... 6
Passes intercepted ...... 1
Fumbles .............. 4
Opponents fumbles recovered .. 3
Own fumbles recovered .. 1

YARDS GAINED ON RUNNING PLAYS
No. Times Net Yards Carried Individual Ball Gained
Moore .......... 13 78
Shepherd ...... 9 42
Dick ............ 2 9
Martin .......... 11 2
Regen .......... 1 20
Davis .......... 8 18
Covington ...... 3 15
Spratt .......... 3 15
Gantz .......... 7 12
McAdams ...... 1 4
Hainer .......... 1 4
Kirkland ........ 2 2

FORWARD PASSES
No. Yds.
Hendrix to Hasty .......... 1 2
Hendrix to Faison ........ 1 7
Crawford to Faison ........ 1 13
Moore to Mallory .......... 2 2
Moore to Dick ............ 1 1

ADVANCE DOPE POINTS TO CLOSE GAME WITH P.C.

From the dope that one sees in the South Carolina papers on Presbyterian College, it could be considered as nihil. But it is hardly likely that the Blue and White are taking life as easy as it might seem. When the crucial time comes, they always seem to be able to deliver the goods, especially against the Wildcats.

In the three years that the two Calvinistic teams have met, the Wildcats have been able to score only once. Although the opposing team hasn’t been able to do better, the dope has always been in favor of the Davidsonians. Both teams have the reputation of being the hardest fighting aggregations in their respective states and the contest always results in a close score. Since Saturday's game, Coach Grey has been able to strengthen the weaknesses shown against Elon and is prepared to give the South Carolinians the fight of their lives. The circumstances favor P.C. in that they will meet their enemy on their home grounds. It was there that they defeated the Cats two years ago, and it is there that they expect to repeat the feat. So we may expect a battle royal next Friday when the supporters of the Red and Black reach Clinton.

COACH FOSTER AIDING RED AND BLACK MEN

Davidson is indeed fortunate in having her coaching staff strengthened by the addition of Coach Foster. Mr. Foster, for several years coach at Porter Military School and for two years coach of the University of South Carolina “Gamecocks,” is a Virginian and a graduate of Hampden-Sydney College. On the field, Coach Foster appears in a baseball uniform, a reminder that he is the owner of the Columbia team of the “Sally” league. This team was a prominent contender for league honors this season. While the students as a whole have seen very little of Coach Foster on the campus, they can see the results of his assistance already in the condition of the teams. They are glad to have Coach Foster here and they hope he will find his stay here as pleasant as they believe it will be advantageous for the team. With the coaching forces so ably augmented, the prospects for a winning team are brighter than ever.

MANAGERS FOR CLASS TEAMS IN BASKETBALL

The first stone was thrown in class basketball Tuesday morning when each class’ hopeful basketeers met to choose their managers. If the managers throw any light on the coming teams, the season will be great. George (War-Horse) Mauze manages last year’s championship team, this year's Seniors; Angus M. MacBryde, the Juniors; Ted Covington, the Sophomores; and Potts, the budding Freshmen with Mauze as their coach. Practice started Tuesday night. The Seniors promise a good team, although Bradley and Toney are the only men left from last year’s five. The Juniors fared better, having from last year’s team Elkins, MacBryde, and “Spec” MacConnell, while the Sophomores suffered only the loss of Beall. The Freshmen are still an unknown quantity, but with the many “bright lights” from the prep schools and high schools, they promise a good fight.

The proprietor was at his wits’ end because of the scarcity of available help and