6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1922.

TOWN NEWS

To the Citizens of Davidson:

The number of homes painted within the past year shows that the presence of Mr. Charles B. Sanders, the student painter, has been a real civic asset, and he deserves a lot of credit for his fine work.

ALUMNI NEWS

Dr. T. W. Lingle, '93, was elected president of the Modern Language Association at a recent meeting at Greensboro, N. C.

Mr. J. D. Baker, '01, is vice-president of the Baker-Holms Wholesale Grocery Co., of Jacksonville, Fla.

Rev. Carl Barth, '98, is doing splendid work as pastor of the East Side Presbyterian Church, of Macon, Ga.

Mr. W. L. Bentz, '12, is in business at Greenville, S. C. His address is 511 Arlington Ave.

Mr. J. W. Black, '18, with headquarters in Greenville, S. C., is traveling for the Charlotte Leather Belt Co.

Mr. W. E. Black, '06, is the public school superintendent of Greenland, S. C.

Mr. A. H. Blanton, '15, is in the insurance business in Columbia, S. C.

Mr. J. C. Boyd, '13, is in business in Charlotte.

Mr. D. A. Brown, '13, and Mr. G. W. Brown, '18, are business men of Anderson, S. C.

Mr. R. F. Brownlee is in the fertilizer business in Anderson, S. C.

Mr. Sidney Bruce, '14, is in business in Seneca, S. C.

HERE AND THERE

J. J. Bernhardt, '12, is engaged in the cotton mill industry in Concord, N. C.

Rev. R. H. Ratchford, '17, recently changed his pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at Farmville, N. C., to that at Greeleyville, S. C.

Dr. C. R. Beall, '18, is in the Public Health Service of Atlanta, Ga.

R. H. Allison, brother of Okey Allison, '24, recently spent a few days visiting Davidson. He has attained a marvelous record in athletics, considering the fact that he has only one arm. Jess has made letters in both football and baseball at the Illinois Western University, and a letter in football at the Washington Law University, of St. Louis, Mo.

Mr. James S. Van Devanter, '15, was married to Miss Marion Lea, on Saturday, April 15, at Albuquerque, N. Mex.

Mr. S. M. Brunson, '15, has gone to Roanoke, Va., where he is now editor of the Roanoke Times.

Dr. James R. Alexander, '93, and Mrs. Alexander recently gave a charming reception in honor of their twenty-fifth anniversary.

Mr. A. A. Oltman, ex-'21, has recently announced his engagement to Miss M. D. Bridges, a graduate of Queens College.

Rev. E. L. Wilson, '05, is now superintendent of Home Missions in East Alabama Presbytery, and excellent work has been reported by him at a recent meeting of the Presbytery.

Robert Hope, Jr. ('42?), is a recent addition to the home of Dr. R. H. Crawford, '10, and Mrs. Crawford, who are living at Rutherford, N. C.

Rev. J. C. McMullen, '73, has recently died, leaving a host of loving friends. He has three children upon the foreign field. He was "a devoted servant of God, a man of power, who left his impress upon the churches he served."

At a meeting of the Athens, Ga., Presbytery, H. B. Dendy, '19, was licensed to preach, and transferred to Asheville, N. C., Presbytery.

R. H. Stone, '18, and J. H. Witherspoon, '98, were licensed to preach at a recent meeting of the Warrens Presbytery.

C. H. Phipps, '08, is now a pastor at Martinsville, Va.

The following Davidson men have been recently called into service, speaking in the interest of Christian Education: Dr. W. W. Moore, '78; Dr. W. L. Lingle, '92; and Dr. W. T. Thompson, all of the Synod of Virginia, and Dr. Thornton Whaling, in the Synod of Alabama.

At a recent meeting of the Presbytery in Greenville, S. C., Dr. D. W. Richardson, '02, delivered an address on Home Missions. Among the commissioners at this meeting were the following Davidson men: Mr. S. L. Cathey, '95, Concord Presbytery, with Mr. E. D. Brown, '93, of Loray, N. C., Presbytery, as alternate, and Rev. D. W. Richardson, '02, of Enoree Presbytery.

Dr. A. M. Frazer, '76, of Staunton, Va., is at a conference of Missionary Education Work, in Durham, N. C.

Dr. R. T. Gillespie, '04, was appointed by the Presbytery of Louisville, Ky., to preach at the Presbyterial meeting at that city. The subject assigned him was "Personal Evangelism."

The Brevard, N. C., Presbytery has asked for the whole time of John R. Hay, '10, instead of half time as heretofore. A considerable raise in salary will accompany this change.

Rev. E. W. Smith, '82, is now visiting in Africa and other fields.

A. A. Wilcox, '80, of Columbus, Ga., who joined the Presbyterian Church on December 2, 1876, while a student at Davidson, has requested this church to transfer his membership by letter to the Presbyterian Church in Columbus.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM

The attention of all Alumni is called to the following commencement program:

May 28—Sunday, 11 a.m.: Baccalaureate Sermon, by Dr. M. E. Sentelle.

May 29—Monday, 8:00 p.m.: Annual Sermon before Y. M. C. A., by Dr. C. L. King, of Richmond, Va.

May 30—Tuesday, 9:00 a.m.: Meeting of Board of Trustees.

May 30—Tuesday, 5:00 p.m.: Close of Final Examinations.

May 30—Tuesday, 8:00 p.m.: Exercises of Literary Societies, Contest for Junior Oratorical Medal; Award of Trophies and Society Medals.

May 31—Wednesday, 10:30 a.m.: Annual Literary Address by Dr. James I. Vance; Award of College Medals.

May 31—Wednesday, 1:00 p.m.: Annual Alumni Luncheon and meeting of Alumni Association.

May 31—Wednesday, 8:00 p.m.: Oratorical Contest and Graduation Exercises.

Note—The above is the official program for commencement and covers all the main events. Other novel features may be introduced later and will be announced in these columns in subsequent issues.

—Alumni Editor.

ANALYSIS OF YESTERDAY’S RED AND BLUE CONTEST (Continued from page 2)

(5) This lesson can be learned from yesterday’s fighting: that an attack with partially trained troops and inexperienced officers is a risky and costly undertaking; and that intelligent direction of forces is possible only when the commander is in close touch with all the elements of that force.Enoree | sioners to the General Assembly chosen | A. A. McLean, ’06, Koan- | encouraging. will be burdened because of contemplated street paving, and the Civic Club has undertaken to carry twenty shares of Building and Loan stock as a nucleus of the fund for the much-needed Community Building, and it will have no margin for village beautification.

At its meeting last week the club voted to make the request of all Davidson householders that they “carry on” in the matter of making our home town more attractive. Each one is asked:

To give care to his portion of the street. (This means to keep the weeds cut, the drains raked, grass plots mowed, and waste paper collected).

To remove unnecessary outhouses, fences and To dig up every wild onion, root and branch.

To screen unsightly objects with vines and flowers.

To plant shrubs which attract friendly birds to our good looks.

The following are vital from the standpoint of health:

To drain all marshy places and keep gutters free from stagnant water.

To clean back yards, barn yards, outhouses, stables, and alleys. (One breeding spot for flies and mosquitoes can infest a block).

To use lime freely. The mild winter has left millions of insects alive that are usually killed by the cold.

Eternal vigilance is the price of civic beauty and health, as well as liberty.

DAVIDSON CIVIC CLUB.

P.S.—The Town Committee of the Civic Club will be glad to furnish prices for shrubs, and suggestions about planting, which have been secured from experts.

RED FORCES MAKE STRATEGIC DEFENCE MAJOR-GENERAL TUFTS WINS DISTINCTION.

(Continued from page 1)

Perhaps the most heroic incident of the hand-to-hand fighting yesterday occurred when Big General Banner Elks Tufts, all of whose regiment except six men had been shot to pieces, faced a whole battalion of the Blue infantry. This section must have been thrown into the action as a reinforcement on the right flank attack. Due to the failure of an important machine gun, this body of enemy reserves was able to surprise Brigadier-General Tufts and his handful of men. The commander of the Blue, seeing his advantage, demanded the surrender of this small unit, but to his amazement was met by such a stout resistance that a reorganization of his assaulting force was necessary. By a series of maneuvers, the Blues were kept encircled for an hour and the small Red squad escaped without the loss of a man by a skillfully executed flanking movement. As a result, when the end of the day’s fighting came—the enemy section found itself fearfully depleted in numbers, a number of its men being lost in the woods east of Cemetery Slope.

(Continued from page 1)

Inevitable stragglers, the meager dispatches from the front, all agree that the fighting was most sanguinary. As the Blue waves rushed down the fatal slopes, brave men fell and braver, rushing up to fill the gaps, fell atop of them, to writhe in their agony in the life-blood of their fellows. The slopes were red with the blood of fair young manhood of the South. They fought and suffered and died there, together—Rumpleite and Georgian, haughty White’s man and lowly Traughite, stud and flunker, crip-rider and digger, ministerial candidate and Glee Club man. When will the memory of their heroism fade from the minds of a grateful country?

This means a harder fight this summer. During this year, however, the town will be burdened because of contemplated street paving, and the Civic Club has undertaken to carry twenty shares of Building and Loan stock as a nucleus of the fund for the much-needed Community Building, and it will have no margin for village beautification.

The foregoing requests have reference to our good looks.

OFFICE SUPPLIES

"We will appreciate the Student business"

STATESVILLE PRINTING CO.
Statesville, N. C.

ARE THE FOLKS TO SEE!
231 S. TRYON ST.

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life If you have a NEW EDISON in the home. If you do not have one you are missing a lot. LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON “The phonograph with a soul”

OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A HOME COMPANY

CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE

Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.

Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N. C.

REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY A HOME BUILDER
Box 553, J. Spencer, Mgr.

The Observer Incorporated.
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

Printing House

A Victrola In Your Home Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists

213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626

Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
Charlotte, N. C.

EAGLE “MIKADO” PENCIL

For Sale at your Dealer

ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND

EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK.
Pencil No. 174 Made in five grades

MEN AND EVENTS IN THE DAY’S FIGHTING

(Continued from page 1)

went at their gory task, urged on by “Prepared Death,” was terrible to behold?

The Imperturbable Right.

It would seem that when Phillips entrusted his right to Lowry, he made a wise choice indeed. Knowing his man through and knowing the need of a cool imperturbable officer on that flank—which was expected to meet stout resistance—he chose Lowry to lead his right; Lowry, veteran of ten campaigns and 30 marches; Lowry, wearer of more medals than a Mexican field marshal, Lowry of the inflexible will. That the right was well handled is admitted by all. Out of the hurly-burly of the action one little story of the right’s commander came to your correspondent: A Red spy managed to creep through the Blue lines, along which men were placed shoulder to shoulder; where and how did he get through?

What Might Have Been the Consequences?

Connection with 6th Army Corps on the left was to be maintained by forces from the reserve (“D” Brigade). Lucky indeed were the Blues that the engagement did not extend beyond the left flank of “C” for it was later ascertained that the forces from the reserve, under Colonel Gibson, never crossed Hoyt’s Creek; except insofar as we except the fact that a few patrols were sent across that stream.

The boy was positive, but to make sure: “Ma,” he called, “Ain’t I just nine years old?”

“Yes, son.”

After a time he ventured, “Say, mister, what made you think I was more than nine years old?”

“Why,” said the stranger, “I couldn’t understand how you could get so dirty in nine years.”

It won’t do for a married man to say to his wife, “Never mind.” She is apt to take him at his word.