THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

ST. VALENTINE’S DAY WILL BE CELEBRATED ON TUESDAY

Tuesday will be St. Valentine’s day, one on which loving swains and maids send through the mails to each other handsomely designed cards, on which are printed verses in which the lines end with love and dove or dart and heart, and on which many candidates for the state asylums also send abusive and idiotic colored sheets, vulgarly known as comics.

Why the day should be dedicated to St. Valentine or why he should have been chosen as the patron saint of lovers or what connection or relationship he had to Cupid no historian, antiquarian, scientist or writer of any kind has ever been able to explain, and the matter is as much a mystery as “who found the knife.” What is known about him is this: He was either a priest or a bishop of the early Christian church at the time when the Roman empire was reigned over by Marcus Aurelius Claudius, who figures in Roman history as Claudius II, and he was such a persistent preacher and was blessed with such a marvelously persuasive religion.

Valentine by prayer restored the blind girl’s sight, and not only did Asterius keep his promise, but he had all the members of his family and all his slaves baptized as well. This was, naturally, a great victory for religion.

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH
A wonderful sticking surface and 36 square inches of pure rubber. A substantial screw-top box.

DR. J. N. H. SUMMERELL
STRONG MAN AND MINISTER

Dr. J. N. H. Summerell, ’73, a widely known and prominent alumnus of Davidson, is now pastor of the celebrated New Bern Presbyterian Church, of New Bern, N. C., which has just held its centennial celebration.

Doctor Summerell is a member of the class of ’73, which produced many other distinguished men, among them J. L. Chambers, a highly successful businessman of Charlotte, and John D. Bellamy, Jr., who was state congressman and afterwards senator. Doctor Summerell received an A.M. degree at Davidson in 1876 and also holds a D.D. degree. He is a graduate of Union Theological Seminary, and was a student for a year at New College, Edinburgh, Scotland.

He has occupied both country and city pastorates and has had a wide experience. He has served churches in North and South Carolina, Kentucky, and Virginia. Among his North Carolina pastorates are Tarboro, Rocky Mount, Washington, and Wilson, in the eastern part of the state. Dr. Summerell has been intimately connected with Davidson both as a teacher and as a trustee. He was a teacher here from 1873 until 1877. He is a man of dignified manner but very genial. He is a strong, sturdy man and stands erect. He has always been a good friend of Davidson.

Dr. Summerell was born in Salisbury, N. C., August 31, 1854. He is a grandson of Dr. Elisha Mitchell, for whom the famous peak (highest east of the Rockies) in western North Carolina was named.

HERE AND THERE

Rev. W. A. Nisbet, 1887, has moved from San Antonio, Tex., to West Columbia, Tex. Rev. and Mrs. Locke White, 1913, have been assigned to Hsuchowfu, China, and are now at work. Dr. Harold M. Marvin, 1914, is on the teaching staff of the Yale Medical School and has charge of the work on the heart at the New Haven Hospital. The Union Seminary Review for January, 1922, contains an inaugural address by Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., 1905. Dr. Thompson is now the Professor of Religious Education in Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. A very interesting pamphlet on diphtheria infections has been written by two Davidson men, Maj. James S. Simmons and Dr. J. M. Cumming, of Wilmington, N. C., father of W. C. Cumming, 1918, who died suddenly on January 24th.

DAVIDSON MEN IN THE MISSION FIELDS

There are known to be at least 31 Davidson men scattered over the world in the seven mission fields of the Southern Presbyterian Church. They are: Rev. E. C. Murray, 1914; Dr. L. J. Coppedge, ex-1906; Mr. N. P. Farrior and Rev. O. C. Williamson, 1916; in Mexico. In Cuba, there is Rev. R. L. Wharton, D.D., 1892. In Brazil, there are: Rev. A. S. Maxwell, 1909; Rev. F. T. Baker, 1913; and Rev. R. D. Daffin, 1903. In Africa, there are: Rev. J. K. Hobson, 1916; Rev. Plumer Smith, 1907; and Rev. C. L. Crane, 1907. China has: Rev. D. W. Richardson, 1901; Rev. P. C. DuBose, Rev. H. L. Reaves, 1911; Rev. L. White, Mr. S. C. Farrior, 1912; Dr. A. A. McFadyen, 1899; Rev. W. C. McLaughlin, 1907, and Rev. E. S. Currie, 1912. Japan has seven, including: Rev. W. B. McIlwaine, 1884; Rev. J. W. Moore, 1886; Rev. J. H. Brady, 1912; Rev. W. A. McIlwaine, 1915; Rev. I. S. McElroy, Jr., ex-1912; Rev. A. P. Hassell, 1902, and Rev. J. E. Cousar, 1914. Korea has six: Rev. L. O. McCutchen, Rev. John McEachern, 1907; Rev. L. T. Newland, 1907; Mr. W. P. Parker, 1911; Rev. R. T. Coit, 1901, and Dr. J. McL. Rogers, 1913.

ALUMNUS GREAT CONCERT SINGER

Dr. Everett Bishop, 1912, has abandoned the practice of medicine and has established quite a reputation as a baritone concert singer. On February 28th he will leave New York City on a three-weeks’ tour of Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts. Press clippings from the New York Evening Mail speak in highest terms of this distinguished alumnus.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Alexander Haliburton, 1917, arrived in New York last week after severalWeeks in Europe in the interest of the Maritime Engineering and Export Co. Andrew Brown, 1917, visited Davidson last week. He stopped over on his way from Baltimore, Md., where he had gone on a business trip. He is a shoe merchant of Ripley, Miss. L. H. Wilkinson, 1913, of Charlotte, J. M. Black, of Greenville, and J. P. Graham, of Coolemee, N. C., were in Davidson recently in the interest of the Alumni Athletic Council. Rev. John McQueen, 1908, has recently removed from Raleigh, N. C., to Timmonsville, S. C., in order to be near his father, who is in feeble health. Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Walker, 1918, and Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Black, 1918, motored up from Greenville lately. Steve Walker, as he was known on the hill, was one of the greatest ends in our football history, while Jack Black is easily the greatest half-back who ever wore the Red and Black.

“500 Again—Quality First!”

CAMPUSISMS.

Johnnie Richards, ’20; Bobbie Long, ‘21; John Gaston, ’21; Billy Miley, ’21; Jack Black, ’20; Jim Harper, ’15; and George Crouch, ’19, were on the Hill for the basketball game Saturday night. Andrew Brown, ’17, of Ripley, Miss., was greeting old friends on the Hill Monday. Mr. and Mrs. G. T. Rowland, of Sumter, S. C., and Mr. and Mrs. C. Watkins, of Statesville, motored down for the game Saturday night. A goodly number of students took advantage of the opportunity to hear Kreisler in Charlotte Monday night. Mrs. Gilmer, Miss Gladys Gilmer, and Miss Walter McPhail motored up from Charlotte for the game Saturday.

Students in the infirmary during the past week were: B. M. Hamer, Fred Smith, Wallace Bethea, and David Moore. Miss Emma Neal Covington, of Laurinburg, visited her brother, T. T. Covington, ’25, last week. Mrs. Erwin spent Tuesday in Charlotte, the guest of her sister-in-law, Mrs. McKoy. Doctor Arbuckle addressed the Boys’ “Hi-Y” in Concord Tuesday. The Mission Study Class, Circle No. 3, met with Mrs. Weatherby Tuesday evening. Virginia Loving, Mr. Gus Travis, and Mr. Simmons were also present.

Valentine, the priest or Bishop, was so successful with his persuasive tongue that he convinced a remarkably large number of pagan Romans to renounce their gods and join the new faith. The persecution of the Christians was a favorite diversion with Marcus Aurelius Claudius, and he was a prolific creator of martyrs. When Valentine did all he knew to relieve the distress and sufferings among his persecuted followers, the Emperor grew wroth and ordered him into custody, naming Calpurnius, the chief officer of the city government, as his responsible custodian, with orders that he be no longer permitted to preach the new Gospel and decry the gods of Rome. Calpurnius in turn deputized his chief of staff, one Asterius by name, to take immediate charge of Valentine and keep him safely locked up. Asterius had him imprisoned in his own house, probably in the cellar. But that did not discourage Valentine, for finding no one about but the slaves of Asterius, he preached to them with all his fervor and promptly converted them to his way of regarding the hereafter and their duty to the Almighty. This so impressed Asterius that he was disposed to believe in the new religion himself, but being still skeptical, he told his prisoner that if he would restore the sight of his blind daughter and thus prove his divine teaching, he could enroll Asterius among his converts and go free. Valentine did restore the sight of the daughter of Asterius, and when the news spread through Rome it created considerable of a sensation. The Emperor was furious and sent to the house of Asterius to have Valentine brought before him, but he had been freed and gone away. It was within a short time, however, that he was captured by the soldiers who were sent to find him, and when they found him on the Flaminian Way, not far from Rome, they beat him cruelly with clubs and ended by chopping off his head. That tragedy occurred either February 14, 269 A.D., or on the same day one year later, some authorities leaning to one date and others to the other. And there is not another atom of evidence regarding the life of St. Valentine, so it is not to be wondered at that the modern world is mystified as to why his name, and the day of his death, should have become associated with the great annual feast day of lovers.—Selected.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
A money back guarantee with every box
Retail everywhere for 50c.

J.S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS
CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES
“an’ everything”

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

Peppermint flavored chewing gum with Peppermint Sugar Coating. Sugar jacket “melts in your mouth,” leaving the deliciously flavored gum center to aid digestion, brighten teeth and soothe mouth and throat. Great Treat!

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Printers and Publishers
Loose Leaf Ledgers and Binders
We Specialize in High Class Work
If you want it printed better send it to us
Our Art Department can originate, design, and execute pictures or drawings of any kind to illustrate your idea
Ask Our Customers---
They Are Our Best Ads
Binding