THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

DAVIDSON STATISTICS CAROLINA STATISTICS

First String Players First String Players

BASKETBALL

No. Name Position Weight No. Name Position Weight
1. C. Davis left end 200 1. R. Morris left end 173
12. McMasters left tackle 186 11. Matthews left tackle 169
3. S. Davis left guard 205 7. Pritchard left guard 185
4. Pritchard left guard 185 5. Blount center 162
5. Sorrells right guard 190 6. Poindexter right guard 183
6. Clark right tackle 190 7. McIver right tackle 181
7. Faison right end 155 10. Cochran right end 177
8. Hendrix quarterback 160 9. McDonald quarterback 151
9. Shepherd left half 165 9. I. Morris left half 162
10. Hunt right half 160 2. Johnson right half 161
11. Moore fullback 130 3. McGee fullback 147

Principal Substitutes Principal Substitutes

No. Name Position Weight No. Name Position Weight
1. Randolph back 172 2. Crawford back 144
2. Dick quarterback 124 3. Bell back 140
3. Iversen right tackle and end 188 4. Shepard end 130

The Mooresville girls have started a plan whereby they have agreed that the days on which they have a date they eat scarcely a thing. The next time you visit this metropolis, try to explain how it's all done by a gentle twist of the wrist. We deserve our share of praise in the bone dry law.

The Davidson College water supply offers great entertainment to anybody with suicidal tendencies. Ninety percent of our infirmary cases are due to the inability of being able to use the soap in the manner prescribed by the National Laws of the Keep Clean Society. As in war, so in the water situation, with a cessation of this valuable fluid we find startling changes in the maps of the students. Caesar had his Brutus, Napoleon his Waterloo, but if we don’t soon get water the old proverb, “While there’s life there’s soap,” will border close to the nix column. Let all the students rise and render the old ballad, led by Okey Allison, “Columbus discovered America, George Washington washed it, and Davidson College is trying to dry it.” —SELAT.

All Freshmen will be glad to learn that Doctor McConnel is contemplating the yearly initiation of the Hebrew Club in a few weeks. Any further knowledge will be given on the subject by applying to “Gig” Shepherd at B. East Dormitory.

FRESHMAN TEAM TIES

The Davidson Wildkittens gave the denizens of the mud swamps around Wilmington a true representation of what is meant by the Pinehurst festival. Yea, they were riotous in their merriment.

MARRIAGES

Channing Brown, 18, was recently married to Miss Katherine Poe, of Rock Hill, S.C.

Better watch out Major Cooper and Captain Gamble. Even the slightest whisper of your reduction will cause the world to engage in mortal combat.

The Commissary

“Service for Our Mutual Benefit.”

Stop in and See Us Saturday

MELLON’S

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It is rumored in an “assinated press dispatch” from Turkey that the recent reduction in the R.O.T.C. corps at Davidson has caused the Turkish army to cease all hostilities.from the far an: 4 alee + Ie fur 2 ven 9° eile ¢. i; x é PATS will make the last | HELA] eta GL look like Al that famous Wildcat fight Saturday when | famed Wolfpack to do battle with the young Wise THT RIRMRHE Gemntall. , 7 et °c av ¢; ; : ss “Uh ve he rf i county fair fireworks display, they held their heavier and more experienced | Wildcats, Ni; ; 3. 1922 -D y ner; ara A ‘; Vild Friday evening, November 3, 1922 opponents, the Wilmington Light Infantry, to Now, verily did the Cubs and the Wild Greenville, N. C. AY gy; . > ee ct Ora Dog License a scoreless tie in a game which came as’ the {eats yearn to strengthen their claws. Yea, ; : Residence, Washington, N.C.; Will someone kindly lend me the sum of two bits in order that I may shed my curly black locks with Norton, the barber. My locks are indeed a source of praise from the girls and I really hate to part with them. Still, to retain my present standing as ace high with the fairer sex they must come off. (Signed) BEN TEAM. “Ikey” Morris’s theme in English 5 on “The Jew” was the first of a series to be given on “Get rich quick commissary.” Davidson lives up to its past reputation by A MERRY DRAMA In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes By Ibsen Shaw Milne. Characters: “Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer. “Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable. Act the Ninth, Mack—How's this for a snappy poem? Bill—Can the racket, I’ve listened to your poems for the last month without protest, BUT from now on, can ’em. Mack—Yea, and why so? Bill—Shut up. Mack—Practice what you preach. (A few minutes later). Mack—Going to Charlotte you? Bill—Don’t ask foolish questions. Boy, I wouldn’t miss that game, no sir, not me. Personally I crave to see the Wildcats claw ’em up with my own eyes. Mack—Ditto. Bill—Ought to be good snappy weather about then. Mack—Even so and the thought comes to me that means that I’ll have to buy myself an overcoat or take the consequences. Bill—Well, cast your eyes to the left and you will see one of the snappy models that Ed Mellon’s showing now. Peach, isn’t it? Mack—Looks good, how about the make? Bill—Couldn’t be better: Hart, Schaffner and Marx and Hickey-Freeman. Mack—It’s a go then, we'll drop in there before the game. Bill—Even so ’twill be.—(adv.) (To be continued next week) Saturday's climax to an Armistice Day celebration which attracted thousands of people from all portions of Eastern North Carolina, Doped to lose by three touchdowns, Coach George's proteges showed the inhabitants of Wilmington how the scrapping Wildcat breed never takes anything for granted, but instead sailed into the infantry crew during the last half and upset the old dope pot in a most convincing manner. Twice the Freshmen got the ball within W. L. I.'s five-yard line, but bad breaks and lack of punch kept them from the much coveted touchdown. Again, three drop kicks, one by Laird and two by Johnson, missed by inches. During the first quarter the ball swayed back and forth in mid-field with neither side having an advantage, but during the second quarter W. L. I. opened up a series of forward passes which swept the Kittens off their feet. Approximately 10 out of 13 passes were successful in this quarter. But the next half the Freshmen backfield came back with a drive and determination that swept the infantrymen off their feet and before they knew what it was all about it was Davidson's ball on their three-yard line. Here the referee cost the Wildcats the game. W. L. I. was penalized half the distance to the goal for offsides but instead of being Davidson’s ball, first down, on the one-yard line, as the rule book plainly specifies, the ball was given to W. L. I. who punted out of danger. A drop kick by Laird missed by a hair’s breadth. Again the Wildcats, aided by brilliant end runs Sappenfield and consistent line plunging by MacMillan, Laird and Black, carried the ball within striking distance of their opponent's goal only to have a drop kick blocked and scooped up by a W. L. I. man who came pretty near getting loose for a touchdown. Another march down the field started and the Freshmen had carried the ball from their own 25-yard line to W. L. I’s 20-yard line when the whistle called time. In all it was the prettiest game the Freshmen have played this year and they displayed to a marked degree that fight and drive which was lacking earlier in the season. Although outweighed 10 pounds to the man, they exhibited a spirit which had local enthusiasts yelling for them during the final periods. by D. Reverend Pharr is now pastor of the Renick Presbyterian Church which is 144 years old, being the second oldest Presbyterian Church in West Virginia. they did fill the air with their shrieks. And, in this band of mighty warriors, whom men were wont to call Wildcats, a man, strong and mighty. A comely youth, yea, very good to look upon, Moore by name, sometimes called Wallace. Now, when the battle had ended and each warrior did take his place in the dining room of the Carolina hotel, lo there appeared a fair damsel—a waitress by occupation. And great was her confusion when she gazed upon the fair youth named Wallace. Yea, even in her embarrassment she did spill a plate of eggs and bacon upon the coat of Wallace, of the tribe of Moore. And great was the shouts of laughter from the company of diners, but the fair Wallace did laugh too. Verily did he pull off his coat, and lo he did have on a silk shirt of gorgeous hue. Then did his adversaries and members of his company see why he did laugh so heartily. Great was his glory in the showing of his silk shirt. Nevertheless he was greatly humbled when the management did present him with a bill for $2 for valet service and pressing said suit upon which the fair damsel did spill the eggs and bacon. Waly Compliments of M. C. BRADLEY BARBER SHOP 6 East Trade Street J. IN PRESSLEY: For Good Service BARBER SHOP 12 East Trade Street CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY PHONE 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager NEXT DOOR TO WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. We carry a big line of PIPES, CIGARS, CIGARETTES and SODAS Anything in the Smoking Line H. & H. CIGAR CO. 32 South Tryon St. We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles WHITE DRUG COMPANY PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS