4 The DAVIDSONIAN

Member North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All matter for publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 P.M. Articles received from an
unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
First Managing Editor
Second Managing Editor
Assignment Editor
Social Editor
Athletic Editor
Literary Editor
Alumni Editor
Press Editor
Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. MOFFETT, Pres.
A. N. BROWN, Vice-Pres.
C. V. BROWN, Sec-Treas.
W. I. KNOX
O. J. ALLISON
T. A. LACY
H. B. PRICE
C. M. McILWAINE
C. D. TULLER
M. P. CALHOUN
D. D. McIVER
D. B. WALTHALL
J. R. EARNEST
G. W. MAUZE
D. B. WHARTON
ED. FEWELL
W. H. SHARPE
A. C. WILDMAN

Reporters: R. N. Graves, J. A. Lake, W. F. Galloway, R. G. White, J. F. Crom, W. L. Pomeroy, J.
M. Williams, S. McLean, G. E. Weeks, J. R. Jones, C. D. Regen, W. A. McLain, J. R. Briggs.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
W. J. COOPER
Asst. Business Managers
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
WATT McCAIN
Asst. Circulation Managers
S. C. FAIN, B. LILES, E. THROWER

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

The rains that visited us so continuously last week might be very useful in improving the looks of the campus,
especially when aided by the pleasant weather that followed. If we would let the grass get the benefit of all
the new life and beauty that the downpour brought it, and not walk all over it in numerous little short
cuts nor trample it down in front of the dormitories by playing ball there, our campus would soon be the
prettiest in this part of the country.

Success does not consist of being applauded for something we do, but in doing something worthy of applause.

Considering the opposition that Senator Lodge gave the Democrats while they were in power, opposing practically every important measure that
President Wilson favored, it seems very natural, particularly under present conditions, to see an influential Massachusetts Democrat announce his candidacy
for Lodge’s seat. Col. William Gaston, of Boston, may be able to show him that the people of their state
want a change in the manner in which they are represented in the future.

The class of ’21 carried off the cup in the last Field Day that we had, before the admiring eyes
of a large number of girls from Queens. Every man can be out to uphold his class in its efforts
to accomplish the feat this year. The prospect for well-matched teams and much competition is good, and everything possible is
being done to make the occasion this year a big success. Let’s all go.

Our custom of spreading a “fire” alarm all around the campus whenever fair visitors approach is a very ancient and
usually pleasant thing for us, but we should be careful to see that it does not cause any anger or
embarrassment on the part of others as was nearly the case recently.

THANKS TO WAKE FOREST.

The North Carolina college papers are very fortunate in having a college press association. Its semi-annual meetings have been beneficial
to all concerned, and while our association is still young, at each of the conventions we have seen our need
for furthering the growing spirit of unity and mutual assistance now arising between the college publications, and have been trying
to meet this need.

Especially do we all feel grateful to Wake Forest for the splendid way in which they handled this spring’s convention,
making such a success of every feature of it. Congratulations to the Old Gold and Black, and the Wake Forest
Student.

A STANDARD COLLEGE RING.

The class rings that began arriving some time ago are certainly quite in evidence these days. ’23 spent a good
deal of time in selecting these, and the result seems to be a ring that practically every member of the
class is pleased with, and one that is drawing many favorable comments from other students here and elsewhere. Most colleges
have and every college needs a standard school ring. There has been a demand for one at Davidson for some
time and various attempts have been made to fill it. Each class has always found fault with what their predecessors
chose, however, and nothing has been accomplished. When Davidson adopts a standard ring, she wants something that is distinctive; something,
also, that the school as a whole and each man will be glad to have for its beauty. While the
new ring is not perfect, it has many attractive and distinctive features. With a few changes, a college ring could
be adopted from this model that would have a much wider acceptance than anything we have previously had here.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1922.

Open Forum

Working for Davidson.

“The time has come,” the walrus said, “to talk of many things.” April is half gone; the end of school
is in sight and it’s high time that we begin to make plans for next year. All of us are
interested in old Davidson and the most interesting thing about Davidson is her men. The students have the reputation of
their college in their hands. They can either dim or brighten the reputation of the school abroad. In fact, it
is essential to the welfare of the college and is to the interest of every man in college to get
a good bunch of Freshmen here next year. Every High School boy is now thinking of where he is going
to college. Many are trying to decide between Davidson and some other college. Nothing can do more good in bringing
these boys here than a personal letter from you. All of you know good boys at home or at your
old prep school. Why not take a few minutes off and write a letter to some of these prospects and
let them know of the virtues of old D. C.? This is the time to get the men who are
doubtful to come to our college. Let's get busy and get the men we want and not take the leavings.

A Dreamer.

D. C. R.

From the earliest of civilizations to the present day the development of both mind and body has been emphasized, although
in different ages the development of one has not been stressed quite so strongly as the development of the other.
Today we recognize the ancient Greeks as a race who developed the body as well as the mind. The men
who won the laurels in the Olympic games gave to the youth a perfect example of an efficient body. And
who can deny that the schools of Socrates and Plato did not as ably develop the mind as the rigorous
gymnastics of that age developed the body?

Following the Grecian idea, the majority of educational institutions of the present day stress the care and development of the
body almost as much as they do the training of the mind. They recognize that the condition of the body
controls, to a large extent, the state of the mind. The care and condition of the bodies of the students
in general should be stressed more than it is at Davidson. In spite of the fact that a large number
of men go out for the different forms of athletics, they compose only about one-third of the student body. What
then are the remaining two-thirds to do to keep fit throughout the year? Also, what are those men who go
out for one class of athletics to do to keep fit when thatForm of athletics is out of season? There
is one form of exercise that practically every man can take and, although some do not like it at first,
those who take it often soon like it so well that they take it regularly. It is “gym” work. Davidson,
in past years, had gymnasium teams whose pictures we can find in old numbers of Quips and Cranks. The men
on these teams made trips and an observer of an exhibition given by one of these teams said that it
was one of the most interesting performances he had ever seen. The student body has grown in size since the
time when these teams were organized and Davidson should now be able to develop just as good if not a
better team than the one that was put out several years ago. But little interest is taken in “gym” work
and one of the reasons that there is not more is because of the bad condition of the equipment. The
outdoor gymnasium has only one pair of parallel bars that can be used. The other pair which was broken several
years ago has never been fixed. There are one or two other breaks in this gym which show that it
is being gradually allowed to run down while if it is given a little care to keep it in shape
it will be of use for years to come. But the most evident lack of equipment is in the gymnasium
building itself. We have a fine building but where is the equipment which is usually found in a gym; such
as the parallel bars, the trapeze, the punching bag—not to mention well-equipped locker rooms. True, there are mats but even
these are in such bad condition that they have to be covered with canvas before the wrestling team can use
them. The equipment should be as good as the building. This would cause more men to use the gym as
a gymnasium. It would give anyone who wished the opportunity to become an expert in gym work and what is
more important it would give an opportunity to every man in the student body to develop any part of his
body which needs developing; brain included.

An Athlete.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Remember This One?
A farmer’s son sitting on a rail fence was accosted by a stranger from the city, who opened the conversation
as follows:
“Potatoes don’t look very good, do they?”
“Can’t,” drawled the rustic, “their eyes is full of dirt.”
“Corn seems sort of yellow,” continued the stranger, venturing on a new subject.
“Yep,” answered the boy, “that’s the kind we planted.”
“You won’t get more than half a crop,” persisted the stranger.
“Don’t expect to,” replied the boy, “the landlord gets the other half.”
“You aren’t far from a fool,” retorted the stranger.
“Not mor’n ten feet,” countered the boy.
And the city chap moved on.—Purple and Gold.

Ain’t it the Truth?
It may be a mansion,
It may be a dump,
It may be a farm
With an old oaken pump;
It may be a palace,
It may be a flat,
It may be a room
Where you hang up your hat;
It may be a house
With a hole in the floor,
Or marble hotel
With a coon at the door;
It may be exclusive,
Or simple or swell,
A wee bit of heaven
Or one little—well.
Just kindly remember,
Wherever you roam,
That Shakespeare was right, kid—
There’s no place like home!
—Selected.

Columbia University has an enrollment in excess of thirty-one thousand for the spring term which entitles it to the distinction
of having the largest student body in the world.

Insight.
A little boy from Canada, who had never seen a negro, was riding in New York with his uncle when
he spied a colored lady.
“Uncle, why does that woman black her face?”
“She doesn’t; that’s her natural color.”
“Is she black like that all over?” the boy asked.
“Why, yes,” uncle replied.
The boy looked up meaningfully at his uncle, “Gee, uncle, you know everything, don’t you?”—Ex.

Latest Song Hits.
“Short Sheets Make the Bed Seem Longer.”
“A Miss is as Good as a Mrs.”
“They Don’t Serve Spoons with Coffee 'Cause the Music is so Stirring.”
“I Never Knew that Red Meant Danger ’Till I Saw it on Her Cheek.”—Howard, Crimson.

The College Spirit.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day,
The quarterback limps slowly o’er the lea;
He bears no marks resulting from the fray
Except a broken nose and twisted knee.
’Tis true he lost a yard or two of skin
And bears a shanty underneath his eye;
Mere trifles, these, which only make him grin,
And say “You ought to see the other guy!”
And thus the college spirit ever burns;
In classics he may be a trifle slow,
And while for a degree he never yearns,
He has a highly educated toe.
—Ex.
