PREPARE FOR EXAMS! WHISTLE, LITTLE WHISTLE! FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 13, 1922. No. 16

Dwight Chalmers Speaks at Opening Y Service
Mr. Jackson Urges Students to Take Interest in Mission Study.

With an address by Secretary Chalmers, preceded by a stirring appeal from Mr. Jackson for a real interest in the mission study campaign being launched by the Y. M. C. A., the “Y” started off another year of highly successful vesper services last Sunday. Mr. Jackson told of the plans for Bible study for the next few months and briefly gave four reasons why college men should have a knowledge of missions. His four reasons why Davidson men should know about missions were: First, because pastors need the help and inspiration of their congregations; second, so much is expected of Davidson men along religious lines; third, man, for his development, needs a superhuman task, such as mission work, and it teaches him the value of prayer; fourth, Christ’s command, “Go ye into all the world—” As this command applies with equal force to all Christians, a knowledge of missions is needed in order to intelligently further the mission cause.

Dwight Chalmers then gave an inspiring talk in which he concisely outlined James’ three tests for pure religion. Men have tried to define a religious person as one who is scrupulous in observing religious ceremonies, who reads the Bible, prays, and goes to church. But this is not the definition given by James. His three tests are controlling the tongue, aiding others, and keeping yourself unspotted from the world. Along with the control of the tongue comes our passions and habits. Overindulgence in a thing will destroy that sensitive touch to a person’s religious life and prevent him from really knowing God. James’ second requirement is found in James 1:27, “to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction.” This opportunity is not well afforded at Davidson, but there are students on every hand who need sympathy and help in various ways. Two rules for keeping unspotted from the world are hating wrong and immoral things, and loving purity and honesty. The solo “Alone,” by Ted Jones, which was well sung, was appreciated by all. Mr. Jackson closed the service with a prayer.

There were a number of visitors in town during the holidays, among them were Misses Mary Blythe, Elizabeth and Gordon Baskerville, Mary Dudley Brown, Marie Graf, Agnes Douglas, Grace James, Mrs. Fred Hay, Dr. and Mrs. James McDowell, and Dr. and Mrs. M. R. Adams.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

A fellow has to have a lot of push before a pull will do him any good.

PHOTOGRAPHER TO VISIT CAMPUS ON NEXT MONDAY

Contest For Basketball Berths is Getting Warm
Light Fast Team to Uphold Record of Former Years.

Monday, the 16th, has been set as dress-up day by Mr. Jackson and the Annual. Mr. Moon, Charlotte photographer, will be here to take a picture of the student body. Every student is expected to be out. This does not mean that each man is under obligation to buy a picture; everyone should come out and have his beauty struck. Pictures of A. E. F. men, literary societies, senior football team, and the faculty, will be taken immediately after the student body picture. Mr. Moon will be here early Monday morning and the pictures will be taken immediately after chapel. Orders for the pictures will be taken by Mr. Moon and all those wanting copies of the pictures made can have them taken at this time by notifying Walter Knox or Rod McLeod.

Every night the Wildcat basketball squad can be seen hard at work in the gym, endeavoring to produce a team worthy to represent Davidson on the court this spring. Coaches Hengeveld and Grey, having worked hard teaching the squad the fundamentals of the game before the holidays, have now turned their attention to the finer points of the game and are emphasizing the passing and shooting more than ever. No first team has been arbitrarily picked yet, and every man on the squad is working hard to make the team.

A great deal of good material has been found in the Fresh Class and it would seem that several Fresh are almost sure of a berth on the first string squad. Crawford, star guard of last year’s team, is performing better than ever and is sure to be a big factor in winning a good many games. Davis, also a letter man of last year, will be back in the game this season, and at either center or guard will give a good account of himself. Geo. Mauze, Price, and Ormond, all of class basketball fame, are showing up well, and are sure to make the race for jobs on the Wildcat quint interesting and hot. Mallory, and Ballard, Freshmen basketball players par excellence, are working hard and will help materially in getting out a good team.

The whole squad this year seems imbued with the idea of not only good playing, but also speed and accuracy, and every night they are working hard, with plenty of pep, to make the Davidson five the hard playing, fast, accurate shooting team they have been in the past.

Work Begun on Physics Laboratory This Week
Class Rooms, Laboratories, and Stock Rooms to be Provided

The construction of the new Physics laboratory was begun last Monday after being somewhat delayed due to a change in the plans which were first drawn up. The building is expected to be completed some time in February and the students of Physics will be enabled to take up their laboratory work immediately thereafter.

The building, which is to be located directly east of the power house, is to be a two-story frame structure. It will have a frontage of 60 feet on the road leading past the power house and will extend 53 feet towards the laundry. The original plans called for a one-story structure. If these plans had been carried out the building would have extended to within a few feet of the laundry and the rear of it would have been about 15 feet above the ground. It was therefore considered best to alter the plans somewhat and construct a two-story building.

The department of Physics will occupy the first floor. It will consist of two large laboratories, one for the sophomores and the other for the juniors, a lecture room, an office, and a stockroom. The size of these laboratories will provide each student with an abundance of room in which to work out his experiments, thereby enabling him to secure better results than formerly. On the second floor there are to be four lecture rooms, three offices, and a stockroom. There will be two laboratories in the basement, one of which is to be used by the applied math class. The building will be very commodious and is to be supplied with steam heat and an abundance of light. Extra piers will be provided for the heavy apparatus in each of the laboratories. These laboratories are to be well wired and will be supplied with both direct and alternating current.Apparatus with which the Physics laboratories are to be equipped will be all new and of the most modern and improved type. The concern from which the apparatus is to be ordered places fire loss orders above all others and attempts to have all such orders sent out by express 48 hours after their receipt. Pat and George Robson spent Christmas at home with their mother and grandmother. Coach Hengeveld is sparing no pain or effort in order to produce not only a winning team but also the same sportsmanlike team that he has put out in the past.

Walls of Chambers Razed Ready For New Structure as Funds Are in Hand. A few days before college closed for the Christmas holidays, Davidson was abruptly awakened by the sound of several terrible explosions which shook the entire campus. On rushing to their windows, the students saw the massive walls of old Chambers crumbling to the ground and clouds of red dust pouring upward from the remnants of the building. This seeming miracle was explained by the fact that dynamite was being used on the dormitory to make room for the new building which is to replace it. Sometime in the course of the month, only four stately columns and a pile of debris will mark the former site of one of the most historic edifices in the Southland. As soon as the ground is cleared and the pledges from the late campaign are made good, a new building will be commenced. While it is known that no dormitory could ever replace Chambers, it is hoped that this structure will at least resemble Chambers in its appearance and will far surpass it in equipment. The same ground plan is to be maintained throughout and the central portion of the building will be given over to offices and classrooms, while the second floor will form a large auditorium. The two wings will be equal to one large dormitory.

Six men will be appointed to represent the countries of England, France, Italy, Japan, China, and the United States. These men will tell who the delegates from each country are, and why they were selected to fill these responsible positions. They will tell what the problems of each country are, how they wish the problems to be settled, and how it will affect their own conditions. As this is a topic which is attracting worldwide attention and of great importance to Americans at this time, this meeting should be an important and beneficial one. The student body and townspeople are cordially invited to attend.

Reception Held in Honor of Dr. and Mrs. Richards by Church Members. One of the most delightful events of the holiday season was an informal reception given in the library building to Doctor and Mrs. C. M. Richards by the congregation of the local Presbyterian Church. The reception was given on New Year's Eve in celebration of their silver wedding anniversary. After the guests had arrived, they assembled in the reading room of the library. Dr. and Mrs. Richards were seated in the alcove directly beneath a beautiful silver wedding bell. Eight girls marched in, while the wedding march was played on the piano, each bearing a present, such as a veil, an old shoe, a wedding ring, and some rice, which was to remind the couple of their wedding day. The girls formed a semi-circle about the honored guests and each presented her present with an appropriate verse. The last girl bore no present, however, but wore a large crescent on her head which represented the honeymoon.

Dr. Moore McConnell then took charge of the exercises and introduced Miss Shaw, who read a short paper on “An Appreciation of Mrs. Richards.” R. Bitzer was then called on, and he told “Why the Students Like Dr. Richards.” Prof. A. Currie made a talk on “What the Congregation Thinks of Dr. Richards” and he also presented him with a beautiful set of silver, a present from the congregation as a token of their love and esteem. Dr. Richards accepted the gift and in a few well-chosen words expressed his appreciation. The guests then adjourned to the basement where ice cream, cake, and coffee were served. The library was beautifully decorated with pine, cedar, and holly. Mr. Thomas Hamilton and Mr. T. W. Lingle rendered several much enjoyed violin solos, accompanied on the piano by Mrs. W. L. Porter. Delightful music was furnished throughout the hours by local talent.

Miss Elizabeth Grey is at home on her vacation from the School of Nursing of the Presbyterian Hospital of New York. She will return next week to resume her course of training. Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell motored to Winston-Salem for last weekend.

The approach of the holidays was the most satisfactory, in every respect, for many seasons. In past years, class football has met with no support from either the classes or the weather-man, but by playing good weather was encountered and everyone was more in the mood for the game. From the first day of practice, the outcome was never in doubt. The Seniors had the build on and naturally put out a husky squad. Not to be disheartened by the brawn of their older antagonists, the other three classes mobilized their forces and each soon had a club in the field eager to meet all comers. The whole college scrub team was also mobilized.

The first blood was drawn by the Juniors, and they picked as their prey the unsuspecting Fresh. Swooping down upon them with the fury of a tornado, the Juniors expected to sweep them off their feet and were greatly surprised when the Fresh held them to a lone touchdown. Both teams were scoreless in the first half, but in the second half each team scored a touchdown, the Fresh failing to kick goal and losing the game 7-6. The following day, the Seniors swamped the Sophs 28-0. In the first half, the Sophs held the mighty alumni scoreless but weakened in the last frame, allowing four touchdowns. Unfortunately, the very next day the Sophs had to play again, and this time it was with the Fresh. The game was full of freaks. In the first five minutes, the Fresh made two touchdowns and in the next five, the Sophs came back with 14 points also. During the rest of the game, not another counter was made by either side. When the mighty Seniors met the aspiring Juniors, the fur flew. The offense of the ferocious Wildkittens was almost irresistible, while the defense of the Juniors was almost immovable. However, sustained line bucks and a long end run brought the champions victory by the tune of 14-0.

Although lacking two games to complete the schedule, the Soph-Junior and Fresh-Senior, the season was very successful and points the way to a brilliant season for varsity football next year.

Summary:
W. L. Tied Av.
Seniors 2 0 0 1000
Juniors 1 1 0 500
Fresh 1 1 0 500
Sophs 0 2 0 0

There were three Sunday School Christmas trees for the little folks of town during the holidays, the Linden, Methodist, and the Presbyterian Sunday Schools. Miss Nora Thompson left last week for an extended visit to her aunt in Laramie, Wyo.

WHAT'S DOING.
Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Society.
7:00 p.m., Eu Society.
Saturday—8:30 p.m., Movies.
After Movies, Ministerial Band Social.
Sunday—10 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1 p.m., C. E. Training Class.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Vesper Service.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Mission Study Classes.

READ THE ADVERTISEMENTS!