THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

HERO OF NEAR EAST IS A DAVIDSON GRADUATE

The training which men receive at Davidson serves not only to increase their mental forces and their moral reserve, but it serves also to strengthen the manly character in them, of protection to the weak and helpless. It was just a few days ago that word was received from Mitylene, recounting the rescue work of Americans in the Near East. In these dispatches was mentioned an incident which clearly showed the result of manly training at Davidson. L. W. Klutz, now of Galveston, Texas, but a native of Chester, S. C., figured in a rescue which was vividly described in the report of Dr. Mabel Elliott. It seems that in the rush attending the loading of refugees on a steamer, a Greek baby was pushed from a barge into the waters. The occupants of the barge were either too dumbfounded or selfish to offer aid, but nevertheless, manhood asserted itself in Mr. Klutz who witnessed the accident from a steamer some hundred yards distant. Unhesitatingly he doffed his hat, coat, and shoes and plunged into the bay to attempt a rescue, which with God’s help, was effected. Resuming his garments, the hero continued through the day, unmindful of his serious condition. But the director, Doctor Elliott, found him so, and was just in time to avert a case of pneumonia. This is the type of men Davidson is teaching and Davidson spirit turns out. It is not only the type which stirs his Alma Mater to songs of praise, but the type which every true man worships and honors as his ideal. It is the model man, the true man, the American man—it is a Man of God.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI RECEIVES FELLOWSHIP DEGREE

Once again does rightful and due honors fall to Davidson. One of her former students, Dr. Robert E. Abell, of Chester, S. C., has left for Boston to receive the most coveted honor that can fall to the lot of an American physician. He is to receive a degree in the American College of Surgeons, which he deserves, sevenfold, because of his faithfulness and loyalty to duty as surgeon in chief of the Chester sanatorium. Davidson College joins with the town of Chester in celebrating this event which is an honor to man, home, and Alma Mater.

HERE AND THERE

Thomas Sparrow, ’17, is a practicing physician in Greensboro, N. C.
James Fowler, ’18, graduated from Union Theological Seminary last Spring.
Rev. R. E. McClure, ’20, was on the campus last week. Rev. McClure is doing pastoral work near Wilmington, N. C.
Bob Miles, ’16, is located in Auburn, Ala.
Kenneth Luckie, ex-’24, is attending the Medical School of the University of Alabama.
B. O. Godfrey, ex-’25, is attending Trinity College in Durham, N. C.
Bebe Hursey, ex-’24, was on the Hill last Sunday.
Jake Thrower, ex-’25, was on the Hill Sunday afternoon.
James T. Hay, ex-’25, is studying medicine at the University of North Carolina.
Carl Matthews, ’20, is a Christian Endeavor Field Secretary in Florida.
Walter McCain, ’22, is professor of Science in Palmer College at De Funiak Springs, Fla.
Sam Fowle, ’18, is located in Washington, N.C.
Rev. T. H. M. Dickson, ex-’82, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Philadelphus, N. C.
Willis R. Booth, ’22, and L. A. Taylor, ’22, are attending the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary in Louisville, Ky.
Samuel Johnston, ex-’24, is employed by the Johnston Printing Company in Washington, N. C.
W. P. Weeks, ex-’25, is attending the Philadelphia Dental College, Philadelphia, Pa.

R. O. T. C. SOON TO OPEN RIFLE RANGE

After November 11th the indoor rifle range will be open to all Freshmen taking R. O. T. C. This range is one of the best equipped in the South, and all new men should avail themselves of this privilege. Last year the Freshmen made an unusually fine record, and it is considered doubtful, by the officers in command, that this year’s class will equal it. A contest will be arranged between men from each company. The winner of this contest will be presented a bronze medal for marksmanship. Rifle meets will also be arranged with Georgia Tech, Mississippi A. and M. and other schools in the South. Due to the lack of equipment, the regular maneuvers and stunts scheduled for Armistice Day will not be held on that date, however, Major Hearn hopes to hold this event as soon as the necessary equipment is received from the War Department.

Ted Jones announces that someone swiped his pipe from the room adjoining the boiler room in the basement of West. We've been hoping for some time he’d lose it.

Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. ...On the Square. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

QUIPS AND CRANKS TO BE BEST PUBLISHED

Although the 1923 Quips and Cranks is yet in embryonic form much of the preliminary work has already been done. All the photography has been completed with the exception of the R. O. T. C. pictures. What the R. O. T. C. pictures will be depends largely on how much the battalion is willing to expend. It is hoped, however, that there will be a picture of each company, individual pictures of the cadet officers, pictures of the instructors and the sponsors, and special pictures. The annual this year will cost from $3,000 to $3,500, it is stated. As the annual receivesOnly two dollars per student from the blanket fee. The manager, R. D. McLeod, has petitioned the Board of Directors for permission to assess the students $3 or $3.50 per man. This is quite necessary as the above are the only sources of income. The contract is as yet unsigned. It will not be split this year as heretofore. The fall advertising drive will start at the end of November. The management earnestly desires that all students who can secure ads for the annual from parents or friends will do so. The solicitors will work in Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Greensboro, Statesville, Mooresville, and Davidson. A large part of the advertising is secured from the alumni. The foreign advertising has already been written for. The 1923 Quips and Cranks will consist of about 250 pages. The backs will probably be of leather. Two special features will be the beauty section and the two-color plates. The beauty section will be larger than ever before as each of the four literary societies will have a sponsor this year. The plates until this year have been in only one color. There will be a comic section which will correspond to the Gossiper of last year. It has not yet been decided what this section shall be called, and all suggestions to this end will be appreciated if turned in to the editor of this department. If any of the students have kodak pictures featuring campus life, art contributions, or contributions to the calendar, they should turn them in to the heads of the respective departments. The staff is composed of the following men:

W. S. Buchanan—Editor in Chief.
T. T. Woolfolk—Literary Editor.
J. B. Haney—Art Editor.
F. H. Mauze—Athletic Editor.
Walt McCain—Editor Comic Section.
J. B. Sloan—Calendar Editor.
R. L. McLeod—Business Manager.
R. H. Smith—Assistant Business Manager.

The students should keep in mind that material for an annual is furnished by the student body and not by the editors. The editors merely collect it and arrange it for publication.

Fresh Tom Baker in class—"Professor, how do you find the slant height of that pyramid?”
Professor—"That’s what I was going to ask you.”
Tom Baker—"All right, ask me.”

SENIORS DEFEATED BY SOPHOMORES, 27-16

The Soph wrecking crew passed the second mile post on their way to the championship by trimming the Seniors Tuesday night, 27-16. The guarding was close in the first half and neither team was passing accurately. The Sophs ran up an eight-point lead before the Seniors could score but the champions came back with three markers and the half ended with the score, 8-3. In the first period, the Sophs increased their advantage of five points to an 11-point lead and the game ended 27-16. Starting off the period, Morrison, Mitchell, Anderson, and Staley each rang up a field goal putting the score 16-3. The Seniors then rallied and made four points on a long shot by Bostick and two free throws by Bradley. Bradley and Staley each tallied one on a double foul by Staley and Gentry made the count stand 18-8. Joe Bostick made two more goals and the Sophs gained on the Seniors the rest of the way, winding up with an 11-point margin. Staley was high point man for the evening with a total of 19 points. Morrison and Koenig guarded their men like leeches and seldom did the champions get under the basket. Joe Bostick’s work on the floor stood out for the Seniors while Bradley's accurate foul shooting helped pile up the score.

SOPHS (27) SENIORS (16)
Staley (19) Bostick (6) Forward
Mitchell (4) Elliott (0) Forward
Anderson (2) Gentry (2) Center
Mode (0) Bradley (6) Guard
Koenig (0) Grey (0) Guard

Foul goals—Staley 5 out of 8; Bradley 4 out of 5. Substitutions—Loges for Morrison, Mauze for Elliott, Richards for Bradley, Streibich for Gentry. Referee—C. M. Davis.

WILDCATS WILL ATTEMPT (Continued from Page One)

Majority of the games played since ‘99, so go to it, ye dope fiends:

State Year D.C.
0 1899 0
0 1900 17
27 1901 6
0 1902 ?
1905 Score not available
1906 Score not available 6
1907 0
21 1908 9
1912 Score not available
1913 State won 0
1916 16
7 1917 3
36 1919 6
23 1920 0
3 1921 3
? 1922 ?