THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

Religious Activities

DR. ARBUCKLE SPEAKS ON VICTORIOUS LIFE

At the regular “Y” vesper service Sunday, Doctor Arbuckle delivered an inspiring talk on “The Victorious Life.” His entire talk
was based on the 12th chapter of Hebrews. “The help and inspiration of our friends who are Christians make it
possible for us to press onward to the victorious life,” said Doctor Arbuckle. “Paul, with wonderful powers of observation, was
present at the famous old Greek races. He had seen athletes win because they knew their parents or dear friends
were watching them. Paul compares these victorious athletes to those running the Christian race.” Continuing, the speaker showed why some
fail in this Christian race to a victorious life. Just as of athletes, much hard work, suffering, and patience is
required of everyone for entrance. The reason for failure is that there are not enough willing to undergo hardships to
become fit. Here on the campus, the weights, bad habits, keep fellows from living a victorious life. In his concluding
words, Doctor Arbuckle told of the help that comes from Jesus Christ in this race, “Christ has led the way
and is now sitting on the right hand of the throne of God, with outstretched hands, beckoning us to follow
Him,” he said.

The service was presided over by Bob Davidson, a member of the cabinet. Sorrells led the singing in excellent style.
Allison added much to the program by the solo, which he sang just before the talk of the evening.

SPANISH BIBLE CLASS CONDUCTED BY BOSCH

The first meeting of the Spanish Bible class was held in Shearer Hall Wednesday, September 27. There were about 50
boys present, which shows that the idea of a class conducted in Spanish has been well received. Doctor Fleagle gave
a short talk, explaining the object and his plans for the class during the rest of the year. The plan
adopted was to obtain pamphlets on the order of Sunday school quarterlies, written in Spanish, and to study these under
the guidance of Doctor Fleagle, Professor Goldiere, and Mr. Bosch. Mr. Bosch, who has lived in Cuba all his life,
took charge of the first meeting. He read a chapter from the Bible and talked for a few minutes. Bosch
is a willing helper and there can be nothing but success ahead of this new undertaking which aims at making
this class a real factor in promoting Bible study.

C. E. TRAINING CLASS HAS DEBATE ON PAPERS

On Sunday afternoon, four members of the Christian Endeavor Training Class had a warm debate in which they presented the
good points of two C. E. periodicals. The query was, “Resolved, That The Christian Endeavor World is worth more to
a Southern C. E. Society than The Dixie Endeavorer.” A. H. Hollingsworth and L. L. Deck tried to show that
the weekly “World” is more valuable than the monthly “Endeavorer,” while J. E. Milton and T. C. Barr opposed this
view. The class decided the latter two had made a better presentation of their side. The object of the debate
was to give some good ideas on how to present the papers when members of the class visit C. E.
societies. The class carries on a general training course in Christian Endeavor methods. A study course in Expert Endeavor is
to be one feature of the work during the winter. All students interested in Endeavor work are cordially invited to
attend the class each Sunday at 7 o'clock in Shearer Hall.

MINISTERIAL BAND RESUMES ACTIVITIES

The Ministerial Band has resumed work with great vim. The band is indeed fortunate in having many of her old
men back and a goodly portion of the Freshmen. The band held its regular meeting Sunday in Shearer Hall. The
subject was: “The Call to the Ministry.” Scripture lesson, setting forth Christian life and service, was from the 12th chapter
of Romans. The meeting was thrown into open conference. A good many men gave their own motives for entering the
ministry and told how the deputation committee might approach young men in leading them into the ministry. The band is
expecting great success in the work this year. Several members of the band are giving their Sunday afternoons to the
Sunday school work at Shearer Chapel, one of the most fruitful fields in this district for religious work.

VOLUNTEER BAND TOLD OF CUBAN SITUATION

The Volunteer Band held its second weekly meeting last Sunday, presided over by M. P. Calhoun. E. F. Bosch gave
a very interesting and profitable talk about the conditions in his native home, Cuba, resulting from the corrupting influence of
Roman Catholicism. He spoke of the opportunities for missionary service there for those of the band who have not definitely
decided upon their field of work. The one main and all-consuming purpose of the Catholic Church there, as elsewhere, is
to cheat the people out of their meager living by preying on their ignorance and superstition. There is a real
need for earnest Christian workers there to fill out the ranks of those already there, of whom, according to Bosch,
85 percent are Davidson men. At this meeting, E. P. Hudgins was elected treasurer to take the place of the
treasurer elected last spring, who did not return.

HERE AND THERE

Dr. W. G. Sayal, ’17, is located temporarily at Rowecliffe, South Road, Poughkeepsie, New York. Doctor Sayal will be unable
to go to Persia to do missionary work as he had planned because of unsettled conditions there.

S. A. Lynch, ex-’05, has spent an enjoyable summer in Europe.

William Hollister, ’16, was graduated from the Medical department of the University of Maryland last June.

Rev. W. E. Frierson, '18, is now located at Leslie, West Virginia.

Dr. J. C. Oehler, ’83, now of Palestine, Texas, was called to Davidson last week on account of the death
of his brother, Mr. Martin Oehler.

Rev. R. W. Cousar, ’18, of Credick, Va., was one of the speakers at the North Carolina Synodical meeting in
Charlotte this week.

Mr. B. B. Brittenhirst, ex-’22, was graduated from Hampton-Sidney last June.

Rev. W. A. Nicholson, '12, has accepted the presidency of the school for girls at Kenansville, N. C.

Mr. W. H. Cullan, ’19, is located permanently at No. 344 West 88th Street, New York City.

Rev. J. D. Gillespie, ’17, is located at Bryson City, N. C.

Rev. E. H. Bird, ’16, is now pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Anderson, N. C. Mr. Bird was married
to Miss Laidlaw recently.

Mr. Kelly G. Tucker, ex-’23, was mentioned in a recent issue of Louisville papers as having completed a hike from
Boston, Mass., to Louisville, Ky., a distance of over 1,000 miles. Mr. Tucker is taking studies at the University of
Louisville, and at the same time beginning his work at the Theological Seminary.

Davidson men have noted with pleasure the success of Mayor Walker in Charlotte. When he received this honor, little did
anyone think that he would once welcome the whole student body to Charlotte. Mr. Ross, on Davidson Day in Charlotte,
in addition to furnishing his own car, came up to Davidson to see that everything went well.

Mr. Jos. B. Johnston is the business manager at the Barium Springs Orphanage. He brought 20 boys to Davidson to
see the Elon game.

George Miley is now associated with the Equitable Life Insurance Company in Chattanooga, Tenn. He was in Charlotte for Davidson
Day.

Rev. J. C. Rowan has been installed as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Concord.

Rev. Wm. E. Black conducted an evangelistic meeting at Cornelius which was very successful.

Dr. A. A. McGeachy, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church inCharlotte has been giving some interesting lectures recounting his observations
and impressions of the conditions in Europe, as seen on his recent trip there. T. M. Lowry, ’22, is teaching
in Gastonia; D. R. LaFar, ’22, in Winston-Salem, and Rooster McFadden, '22, in Greensboro. Each of these is coaching his
respective football team, and it will be interesting to note the results of Davidson vs. Davidson coaching. Doc, Rooster, and
Chef McAlpine have been recently on the campus. Rev. R. C. Clontz, pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Cornelius, has
matriculated for additional work at Davidson. E. B. McGukin, ’22, served as assistant to the pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church in Statesville last summer. He was leader and teacher of the Covenanters and conducted a Bible class which was
most successful. His work was appreciated by the young people of the church. Mr. C. C. Beam continues his work
as assistant to the pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Rev. Dr. Grier, who resigned his pastorate of
the First Presbyterian Church of Concord recently on account of ill health, has so far regained his health as to
accept the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at Newton. Dr. McLean Rogers, of Korea, who has been living in Charlotte
for the last few months, is going to visit some relatives in Virginia, after which he is going to New
York and Boston to attend some special clinics. Rev. R. A. Lapsley, Jr., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Columbia, was one of the speakers at the opening of Columbia Seminary. John Roddey, ex-'23, is studying law at the
University of South Carolina. Dr. J. R. Smith, '06, and Dr. J. L. Adams, '06, together with associates in their
profession, have recently purchased an office building in Asheville. Davidson men have watched with satisfaction the success of these men.
Neil Farr is a member of the legal firm, Farr and Bell, Charlotte, N. C. Mr. J. E. Cassell, ’21,
former editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, is now an instructor in the Lenoir High School, Lenoir, N.C. He is also faculty
director of athletics in the school. P. O. Bethea, ’22, is a teacher and athletic instructor in the Lincolnton High
School. Rev. F. J. Haig, '14, has resigned his pastorate at Kings Mountain, N. C. He has entered the Princeton
Theological Seminary for a year’s additional study. Rev. “Jamie” Fowle, after completing his theological course at Union Seminary, has entered
Princeton for some additional work in theology. “Jap” Cummings, '21, after having received his master’s degree in one year at
Princeton, has returned to gain his Ph.D. L. B. Nichols, ’20, is in business at Andrews, S. C. Houston White,
’21, is taking post-graduate work in History at Princeton University. Dr. W. T. Hearn, '13, after spending the summer in
medical work at Vienna, has returned to his work at the University of Pennsylvania. He is doing research work in
connection with the faculty. Rev. J. A. MacMurray, ’09, has recently removed his pastorate from Fayetteville to the First Presbyterian
Church of Abbeville, S.C. Mr. Lex Klutz, a former Davidson man, has been having some wonderful experiences in the Old
World. In a card to Dr. Lingle, he tells of his relief work in Asia Minor most interestingly. Recently, Mr.
Klutz had a Mediterranean trip after which a journey to the Caucasian mountains in connection with the Near East relief
work. Mr. Klutz is a former athlete of this college. John R. Schenck, ’22, is teaching at Oak Ridge this
year. Mr. Schenck finished in February and received his degree in June. J. P. Price, '22, is entering Johns Hopkins
this fall to take up the study of medicine. Henry Lilly, a former Davidson man, who taught at the McCallie
School last year, is studying this year at the University of Heidelberg in Germany. Mitchell College at Statesville had a
very auspicious opening this fall. Rev. W. F. Hollingsworth, '90, begins his first term of presidency in that institution.

BLUESTOCKINGS OUTPOINT WILDCATS (Continued from Page 1)

The Wildcat line threw them back four times and the whistle blew for the half. Davidson kicked off and P.
C. was forced to punt. The Wildcats marched steadily down the field and passed the 30-yard mark. There the Bluestockings
intercepted a pass and the breaks went their way. Hindman, who had been punting about 35 yards, ripped off a
50-yard punt over Hendrix’s head which rolled to the six-yard line. Gig’s bad leg bothered him and he punted short.
In three plays, the position of the ball had changed from Davidson's ball on P. C.’s 30-yard line to P.
C.’s ball on Davidson’s 40-yard line. Again, the wide end runs baffled the Wildcats and the Bluestockings swept on to
the 10-yard line where a pass, Hindman to Wilson, netted a touchdown. Score—Davidson, 7; P. C. 8. The Wildcats had
the advantage throughout the remainder of the contest. Once more in the third period and three times in the final
quarter they threatened the P. C. goal but an intercepted forward pass and inability to gain gave the ball to
the Bluestockings. The Bluestockings did not seriously threaten again. The thin Red line held like a wall. The game ended
with the ball in Davidson’s possession near midfield. Brice at center played a stellar game for the Wildcats. His passing
was good, on the offense his man never got through, and on the defensive he was a tower of strength.
He fought through the game with a bad wrist showing the same punch and drive that always characterizes his play.
If his wrist is well enough to allow him to play against Tech Saturday, it will add greatly to the
Wildcats’ chances. Gig Shepherd outpunted Hindman decisively till his leg was hurt, after which Hindman had a slight advantage. On
one interchange of punts, the Wildcats gained 20 yards due to Gig’s great work. It was largely due to his
punting that the Presbyterians were pushed back in the first quarter. Hunt was the only consistent ground gainer for the
Red and Black. Time after time he drove through the Blue line for gains. The South Carolinians had Spratt covered
but Spratt was the same 130-pound demon, as usual fighting every inch of the way. On defense, the Davidson line
showed up well. The Clinton lads were unable to clip off more than five yards through the line at any
time and seldom did they make their distance. The Bluestockings had the Wildcats buffaloed on end runs, often sweeping around
the flanks for long gains.

Davidson 12, P. C. Position
Mason Left End
Masters Left Tackle
Bomar Left Guard
Williamson Center
Miller Right Guard
Brown Right Tackle
Wade Right End
Clowney Quarterback
Hindman Right Half
Shepherd Left Half
Pearce Fullback
Moore Touchdowns—Moore (Davidson), Wilson. Try for point—Shepherd. Safety—Dick. Substitutions—Davidson: Sorrells for Davis, S.; Summers for Long; Mallory for Regen; Hunt
for Davis, C.; Davis, C., for Mallory; Dick for Hendrix; Hendrix for Dick; Regen for Davis, C.; Davis, C., for
Shepherd; Davis, S., for Sorrells; Long for Summers. P. C.—Dulin for Brown. Referee—Perry (Sewanee). Umpire—Major (Clemson). Attendance—1,300. Time of quarters—15;
15; 15; 15.

For many years you have heard of The Florsheim Shoe, you have received a definite impression—“a fine quality shoe.” When
you wear a pair you will say as others do—“a wonderful shoe.”

H. C. LONG COMPANY
33 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE
Home of Michaels-Sterns “Value First” Clothes
