b. 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
H. H. DSON, Editor
Athletic Editor
Literary Editor
Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Pres. FEWELL, ED. AUZE, G. W., V.-Pres. BRADFORD, GRACY, J. S. MOORE, W. H. BROWN, C. V. HESTON, W. M.
MORRIS, H. M. Sec.-Treas. JONES, J. R. CALHOUN, M. P. JONES, TULLER, C. D. COX, W. M. KNOX, W. L.
WALTHALL, D. B. ELKINS, L. D. LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A. C. ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H. WILDMAN, C.
F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES Circulation Manager
D. TULLER, S. C. FAIN, P. C. HENDERSON, Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN, R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Ten games won out of thirteen played is a record of which any team may be proud. Hats off to
the Wildcat five!

The microbe of Love made its first stage appearance at Davidson last Friday. This is not the first time that
it has been in evidence on the campus, however.

Members of the Davidson faculty and Y. M. C. A. spoke at seven points around Davidson last Sunday, Salisbury, Concord,
Charlotte, Gastonia, Lincolnton, Sharon, and Caldwell being in the number. So far as we can learn this is a new
high water mark in the outside extension of the Y. M. C. A. here.

The Davenport Weekly Record is the latest addition to the ranks of college newspapers in North Carolina. We congratulate the
students of Davenport upon the initial appearance of their paper, and wish them much success in continuing their publication.

Now that spring has arrived, it is about time for someone to start counting up the number of days till
commencement, we suppose.

Have you noticed that worried look which so many of the Juniors are wearing these days? “There’s a reason.”

COLLEGE EDUCATION?

A considerable amount of newspaper publicity has been given to a recent discussion between the cashier of a bank and
a minister of a small South Carolina town as to their respective ideals for sons now in college. The minister’s
wish was to have his boy stand at the head of his class. The banker declared that he much preferred
hearing that his son had knocked a home run with the bases full. This difference of opinion led to a
somewhat heated argument as to the place of athletics in the life of the modern educational institution, the end coming
with neither party convinced.

Mr. Julian Miller, of the Charlotte News, in one of his excellent editorials has commented on the question in a
very forceful and striking manner. He takes the position that play holds an important place in college life since it
helps the institutions to accomplish the purpose for which they were founded, the development of symmetrical manhood. The college was
not intended to train the intellects of men at the expense of their bodies and their social instincts, but to
bring the three into the close coordination which marks the perfect man.

Mr. Miller points out the fact that many men who have stood at the head of their classes have entered
the world without the social and physical qualifications so necessary for success, while others who went into all phases of
college life and came out practical, well-rounded men are now standing at the very head of their professions. He closes
with the statement that “A college experience is the destiny-forming experience of any boy, and the fellow who does not
come away from classic halls with more than a mere knowledge of the languages and a mastery of the sciences
has missed some of the larger and more essential things which lay within his reach.”

In this statement Mr. Miller has unquestionably set forth a great truth, for a mind developed out of all proportion
to the other faculties is a doubtful asset to any man. There are lessons to be learned on the athletic
field and in the various student activities as well as in the classroom, and the wisdom to be acquired at
college is by no means limited to the number of studies listed in the curriculum of the institution.

On the other hand, there seems to be a tendency in the modern college to allow the student’s outside activities
to take precedence over his literary work. Needless to say, this mistake is equally as great as the former, and
probably much more common. With danger on either hand, real safety seems to lie only in the middle ground of
moderation. Even a good thing when taken to excess may prove harmful. The truly well-rounded man is the one who
does not let the body interfere with cultivation of the mind, or social instincts with either, but who by the
healthful exercise of each develops all into one harmonious whole. The development of such men should be the highest aim
of every college.

With Other Colleges

FIRST YANKEE CLUB ADDED TO CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS

Chapel Hill, Feb. 18—The first Northern Club in the history of the University was organized Thursday night, when 15 boys
from above the Mason-Dixon line banded themselves together at an interesting meeting. C. B. Colton, of Boston, Mass., was elected
president; O. W. Freeman, West Orange, N. J., vice-president; G. H. Jarvis, Boston, Mass., secretary, and L. J. Brody, New
Haven, Conn., treasurer. Garland Porter, president of the student body, was elected an honorary member, and the meeting adjourned by
singing Dixie to the tune of Yankee Doodle.

State College, Feb. 21—The prospects for the 1922 track team are very encouraging in view of the fact that over
80 men reported for practice on the track. There has been considerable interest manifested already and Coaches Taylor, Crowder and
Dana are working hard to make this year stand out in track at N. C. State. The team is managed
by H. J. Kinard and captained by W. W. Blakeney. Many old men are on the track, including Homewood, Roberts,
Poole, Close, Park, Groome, Corkill, Brackett and Randolph from Randolph-Macon College. A new track one-fifth mile long has been constructed
around Riddick field, which makes the practice much better.

State College, Feb. 21—Baseball practice has begun in earnest with about 50 candidates on the diamond. The pitching staff already
reporting are: Curtis, Allen, Floyd, Cline, Lassiter and Hill. The receiving end is well represented in Parsons, Johnson, and Faulkner.
Many old men are back this year and the outlook is very promising for a successful season for State. Manager
R. L. Mills, Captain H. E. Norwood, and Coach Harry Hartsell are very optimistic.

Queens College, Feb. 24—Since Easter comes at such a late date this year, Queens is to have spring holidays. They
begin Thursday, March 16th, at 12 o'clock, and extend until Monday evening, March 20th. Everybody is planning great things during
this much appreciated vacation.

Elon College, N. C., Feb. 20—Extensive preparations are being made here for a celebration on George Washington’s birthday. All of
the college dining halls will be decorated for the occasion and at 5 o'clock the Clio annual dinner will be
served by the Clio Literary Society. At 8 p.m. the society will give its annual entertainment in the college auditorium.
The entertainment this year will beOne of Harry Hamilton's plays, entitled “For the Love of Johnny,”;

JUNIORS IN R. O. T. C. HAVE MOOT COURT FOR PRACTICE

The R. O. T. C. was startled into activity last week by the filing of two serious charges against one
of the Juniors, whose character would never lead anyone to believe him capable of such offenses. Although it was not
a pleasant task, the military authorities were forced to organize a court-martial and started proceedings to judge whether Sergeant J.
M. Bostick, alias John Walker, is guilty of having deserted and of having stolen a pistol. The court is composed
entirely of Juniors, members of Sergeant Bostick’s own class, through which fact a fair and unprejudiced trial is assured. W.
J. Cooper is president of the court. J. D. Bernhardt is acting as Judge Advocate, and A. V. Gibson as
Assistant Judge Advocate. The defense is represented by W. H. Moore as chief counsel and D. W. Bethea as assistant
counsel. C. A. Young, the law member, is frequently called upon for explanations of some of the objections raised by
both counsels, and, although his ability is recognized, he seems stunned by the responsibilities he has assumed, and once or
twice, when gently urged to hasten his decision, has seemed to “forget his dignity,” and has given such replies as—“Aw,
hold your ’taters.” Of course, everyone sympathizes with him in his hardships.

PHILANTHROPICS HEAR OF EXCELLENCIES OF BICKETT

The gavel of the Phi passed from Harold McKeithen into the hands of Joseph F. Clark last Thursday night. The
inaugural ceremony followed one or two instructive and inspiring orations.

Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

SMILE.

In the debate, J. R. Jones and R. J. Smith for the affirmative won the decision over R. H. Fleming
and B. G. Brown. The query, “Resolved, That the United States should prohibit immigration for two years,” is an old
subject, yet it is a subject that concerns all and will remain so for a long time to come. These
men showed that they had made careful preparation on this subject but they were somewhat lacking in pep. An oration
by C. W. Robinson followed the debate. His subject was, “The Solar System,” and he gave an interesting account of
one of the theories of its formation. “Which shall it be?—A NORTH CAROLINIAN,” was Harold McKeithen’s subject. He held the
absolute attention of his audience while he spoke of his many attempts at a person for the subjects of an
oration on character. His final choice was Thomas W. Bickett, of North Carolina. In the reports of the various offices
for the past term, there was a universal note of rejoicing in the way the Phi has pulled through the
difficulties and disorders of the past term, which necessarily came after the division of the society. They all prophesied great
things in the future for the old Phi.

RAPID-FIRING EXHIBITS.

A challenge was received by the Pandeinics at their meeting of the 23rd. This challenge was issued by the Eu’s
and it was, of course, promptly accepted and one man was chosen from each of the upper classes to represent
the society in debate, they being J. C. Bailey, Sorrells, and Walthall of the Sophomore class. There is at every
meeting some unexpected event on the program. At this meeting, it was the rendering of three impromptu forty-five-second orations. Wallace
Moore spoke first and related the alarming incident of the robin, the mockingbird, and the hawk. Guy Weeks then gave
a brief resume of psychology and philosophy. Rooster McFadden then spoke on some means of acquiring better speaking ability while
in the society. This oration evoked some discussion during the meeting. In the regular debate, Brown, McCallum, and W. T.
Baker succeeded in proving over their opponents, D. W. Bethea and Ray Carr, that the United States should suspend all
immigration for a period of two years. Each of the debaters brought out several forceful arguments in a characteristic manner.
An oration was given by D. R. LaFar, in which he showed clearly the condition of industries, especially that of
cotton, in the South. S. F. Bryant gave a patriotic declamation in an interesting way. J. H. Grey then rendered
a complete summary of the high points in current events.

Among the students who went to Charlotte Saturday to hear Sousa’s band were: E. T. Gentry, M. W. McGill, Story,
R. L. McLeod, R. U. Woods, J. C. Bailey, B. McLaughlin, and M. W. Doggett.

W. J. Martin, Jr., is spending a short time with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. M. Martin. Bill is
recuperating from a siege of pneumonia contracted at N. C. State College where he is a student.

LITERARY NEWS.

Debate Queries.

March 2nd: “Resolved, That the United States should maintain a navy equal to the largest in the world.”

March 9th: “Resolved, That for the economic welfare of the world the reparation demands on Germany should be adjusted by
reductions or postponement or both.”

It is said that it takes sixty-five muscles of your face to make a frown, and only thirteen muscles of
the same face to smile. The way that some of us walk about the campus, sit in classrooms, and do
our lessons is exactly contrary to the way in which we wish things to be. We are continually frowning because
we think that the teachers are making us “work overtime;” and while we continue in this train of thought we
are working overtime in the very thinking, because as we know by frowning we work just five times harder than
if we smile. Let’s smile more, fellows, “why work overtime?”—Technique.

He sits apart;
The dance goes on,
He looks with saddened gaze
Upon the merry throng.
And why?
Because he's
Been betrayed
By the one he trusted—
His suspender
Button’s busted!
—Rensselaer Polytechnic.

There is a plan on foot at the University of Virginia for the erection of a bronze tablet or other
suitable memorial at the room which was occupied by Woodrow Wilson when he was a student at the University—The Maine
Campus.

THE APPLE OF HIS EYE.

A peach came walking down the street;
She was more than passing fair;
A smile, a nod, a half-closed eye,
And the peach became a pair.
—Mugwump.

TAR BABY ON SALE WITH SOME MORE PLAGIARISM

The “Tar Baby” made a belated appearance at Foister’s on Monday. The issue shows little improvement and the evidence of
plagiarism is clearly present. One very happy feature is the decrease in the amount of advertising carried.

DROP THE HONOR SYSTEM.

Philadelphia, Feb. 13—The honor system under which students of the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania have
been accustomed to taking all examinations, was suspended today by special faculty action. Reports of repeated violations, combined with the
reticence of the Wharton men to report violators to the Honor Committee, was assigned as the reason for the suspension
of the traditional code. Although abolition of the system has been threatened for the last two years, the announcement of
the faculty action by Dean Emory R. Johnson, came as a surprise to the vast majority of undergraduates. The system
is almost as old as the school, and although the subject was of frequent modification and revisions, it has always
been very popular among the undergraduates. The School of Finance was the only department of the University of Pennsylvania where
the honor system was used.—N. Y. Times.

At a meeting of the Alumnae Association of the North Carolina College for Women on Founder’s Day, plans were approved
for the construction of an alumnae building which will be a modern structure of three stories, with adequate facilities for
lodging, club meetings, meals, etc. Construction of the cafeteria will begin at once and the entire structure, estimated at a
cost of $100,000, is expected to be completed by commencement.

ME, TOO.

“Aw, git away, I’m saving my kisses.”
“If that’s the case, I’d like to contribute to your collection.”
