Bob in his bereavement, in his father a few days ago. Doctor Shewmake, of the English department, will make an
address before the Charlotte District Library Association, on October 17. The State is divided into seven districts of which Charlotte
is the head of one district. Elkins, Earnest, Gibson, Bernhardt, Gibson, and Crane composed the musical organization that performed in

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

BIBLE CLASSES MEET IN EACH DORMITORY

A Bible class is being held on every floor of each dormitory and in every two sections of the barracks
on Wednesday nights. These are being led by competent religious leaders of the campus. A class is held on Tuesday
night in Doctor Sentelle’s classroom for training the leaders. This class is ably led by Professor Currie. At the last
leaders’ meeting, 19 were present. It is urged upon all leaders to make it a point to be present at
this class, as the success of the student classes is directly dependent on well-trained leaders. The subject of the lesson
for last time was: Why Should a Student Follow Christ? What is your ideal of a Christian Student? And, is
such an ideal represented on our campus?

William T. Baker, Y cabinet director of Bible classes, has asked that each class appoint a secretary who will make
a report to him of the attendance at every meeting. Because of the lack of these secretaries, a complete report
was not obtainable. Only two classes reported: the third floor Watts had eight present; third and fourth sections North barracks
had 14 present. There are 31 classes on the Hill.

MINISTERIAL BAND IS ADDRESSED BY WEEKS

The Ministerial Band was addressed last Sunday by Guy Weeks, president of the North Carolina Volunteer Union and of the
Davidson Volunteer Band. Guy gave a brief history of the Volunteer movement, related its purpose, and urged that the local
Volunteer and Ministerial Bands work together in greater harmony. The Volunteer movement was launched 20 years ago by Robert E.
Speer and Robert P. Wilder, better known as Father Wilder, who were then students. Its purpose is to unite in
closer fellowship all college and university students who anticipate future Christian service in some foreign field and to encourage others
to enter the same great calling. The work is organized into national, state, and district unions.

The declaration card, which all members are required to sign, is merely a statement that it is their purpose to
serve on the foreign field if God so permits. It is not a pledge. Guy urged that the members of
the Ministerial and Volunteer Bands live such Christian lives that others may see in them the power of fully God-surrendered
lives. His talk was closed by extending an invitation to the Ministerial Band members to attend the weekly Sunday morning
Volunteer Band meetings which are held in the “Y” reading room.

Possibly the most important work of the Ministerial Band at present is done by its deputation committee. A class has
been organized which meets weekly and discusses the methods of deputation work. Plans and illustrations will be given to those
who are to go on deputation trips this year.

SOUTH CAROLINA CLUB HOLDS INITIAL FEED

One club has done something other than have its picture made for the annual. The South Carolina Club held a
feed on last Saturday evening in the gymnasium. Bill Cooper was toastmaster for the 55 or 60 assembled Sandlappers, while
Windy Aikin and Tally Elliot officiated for the Freshmen initiation. This furnished amusement throughout the evening.

Each new member publicly announced his name, home town, and relation, if any, to former Davidsonians. Many identified themselves as
being brothers, cousins, or friends of some of Davidson’s worthy sons. One of the most enjoyable features of the program
was the serving of sandwiches, dopes, ice cream, and cakes, followed by cigars, cigarettes, and peanuts. The Sandlappers plan to
have an enrollment of 100 of the Palmetto State's best in next year’s club.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR HOLDS TRAINING CLASS

In Shearer Hall at 15 minutes after 1 every Sunday afternoon, there is a Christian Endeavor Expert Training class conducted
by W. A. Gamble. This class is open to all the students of Davidson who are interested in Christian Endeavor
work and who would like to help spread the cause of Christian Endeavor.

Last Sunday, T. A. Guitan spoke about the organization and the purpose of each society of Christian Endeavor. After Guitan
had finished, S. C. Fain told about the separate committees and their duties. The meeting was extremely interesting and every
student who attended it felt that he had gained from it.

PROFESSOR FOREMAN SPEAKS ON MISSIONS

Drawing his thoughts from the account of early missionaries in Acts 13:1-4, Professor Foreman gave a few suggestions to the
Volunteers, at their regular meeting, concerning their calling and preparation.

In the first place, the Volunteer must be a man of training. Paul was one of the greatest scholars of
his day. Again, he must be a man of experience; as young doctors do intern work before entering upon their
profession, so preachers should not go into this work without some previous experience. Paul and Barnabas had preached for a
while in Antioch before they went.

Lastly, the Volunteer should early become acquainted with the church and mission that are to send him out to the
foreign field, and write to the missionaries so that he will know that he will have congenial work under the
mission. With Dunbar mission and with the missionaries already on the field, Paul and Barnabas were acquainted with and sent
out by the local church. Also, there is no greater inspiration to the Volunteer than to know that there is
a church at home interested in him and praying for him.

HERE AND THERE

S. H. Burgess, ’21, is cashier of an insurance company in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

C. T. Carr, ’98, who has been appointed Superintendent of Young People’s work in the Synod of North Carolina, has
moved to Mooresville, N.C.

Dr. A. A. McGeachy, 1891, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, and Mrs. McGeachy have just returned from
a three months’ visit to Europe and the British Isles. It is hoped that the Davidson student body will have
the privilege of hearing Doctor McGeachy tell of his experiences in the near future.

Rev. E. W. Smith, 1882, who is fresh from a six months’ trip to Africa, made a most interesting address
before the North Carolina Synodical meeting in Charlotte, last week. Doctor Smith is executive secretary for Foreign Missions in the
Southern Presbyterian Church with offices in Nashville, Tenn.

W. I. Knox, 1922, was on the campus Friday last.

R. W. Glasgow, 1921, of Dallas, Texas, spent the summer at his old home in Davidson.

F. M. Mack, ’19, is superintendent of schools at Fort Mill, S.C.Dr. Wm. B. Meares, '11, now district physician at
Pedro Miguel, Panama Canal Zone, expects to locate at Linwood, N.C., next spring. John Abernathy, ex-'24, is attending Trinity College
this year. Henry Culbreth, '21, is cashier of an insurance company in Chicago, Ill. G. P. Apperson, ex-'20, is now
in the cotton business in Charlotte with the H. B. Albro and Company, No. 12 East Fourth Street. Rev. W.
A. Murray, '96, motored from Shelby last Saturday to visit his son in Davidson.

MARRIED

On June 2, 1922, Miss Emily Mason, of Port Gibson, Miss., was married to J. M. Dunlap, '21. They are
at home in Port Gibson where Mr. Dunlap is teaching in the Chamberlain-Hunt Academy.

The reception rooms of West and East buildings were opened to the students last week, the completion of same being
delayed in order that other parts of the two buildings could be finished as soon as possible.

Charlotte Wednesday night, on the occasion of a weiner roast given by the First Baptist Church of Charlotte.

D. P. C. FRESH ELEVEN TO MEET SCRUBS OCT. 19TH

Nothing except victories over Carolina, Trinity, and Furman, would please the Davidson student body more than the victory of our
Wildcat Freshies over the P. C. Freshman team. These two elevens tie up in Rock Hill on October 19th and
a battle royal is promised. The game is sure to be a hard-fought affair. The Blue Stocking Yearlings have a
team that compares favorably with their varsity in weight and smoothness, and no one questions their spirit. Last week this
team took the measure of the University of South Carolina Greenies, 7-0. The Wildcat Fresh are sure to give a
good account of themselves. They have had plenty of hard work, having taken on the varsity several times each week,
and will relish a game with a team a little nearer their own weight. Theirs is also a smooth-running machine
and yield to none on the question of fighting spirit. Although it is too early to give any definite line-up,
the young Cats will probably be chosen from among the following: Laird, Sappenfield, Black, McDonald, Buck, and Alford, backs; Baker,
Crayton, Daughton, Anderson, McMillan, Green, Cox, Potts, and others, linemen.

LIGHT RED AND BLACK (Continued from Page Two)

Martin punted 30 yards to Barron who returned four yards. Tech’s ball on her own 40-yard line. Quarter up. Score—Tech,
12; Davidson, 0.

SECOND QUARTER

Summers goes in for Clark and Sorrells for Fields. A forward pass was grounded. McDonough gained three yards over left
guard. Barron plunged through tackle for five yards. Fourth down and two to go. Hunt gained seven yards over the
line for a first down. Tech’s ball on Davidson’s 40-yard line. Hunt tore through left tackle for six yards. Hunt
made five yards more over left tackle for a first down. Hunt fumbled and Davidson recovered on her own 32-yard
line. Laird gained four yards over right guard. Laird smashed through right guard again for two yards. Martin punted 45
yards to Hunt who returned five to his own 35-yard line. Time out for Tech. Barron ran over right tackle
16 yards for a first down. Rather gained three more over the same place. Hunt bucked the center of the
line for a seven-yard gain. Tech’s ball on Davidson’s 34-yard line. Barron circled left end for a 10-yard gain. Hunt
got five over left tackle. McLaurin replaces Martin at right half. McDonough gained four yards over left guard. McDonough smashed
through the line for three yards and a first down. Tech’s ball on Davidson’s 12-yard line. Barron hit tackle for
four yards. Hunt failed to gain through center. Barron made six yards over right tackle for a first down. Ball
on Davidson’s one-yard line. McDonough failed at right guard. Barron failed to gain over right guard. Hunt hit center for
a touchdown. Rather drop kicked goal. Score—Tech, 19; Davidson, 0.

Brice for Davidson. Moore kicked off 30 yards to Staton who returned five yards. Tech’s ball on her own 35-yard
line. McDonough hit left tackle for a few yards. Rather slipped through right tackle for two yards. McDonough plunged over
left guard for eight yards and a first down. Time out for Tech. Hunt got one over left tackle. Barron
smashed through right tackle for four yards. McDonough hits center for three yards but Tech is penalized 15 yards for
holding. Rather hit tackle for one yard. On a double pass Barron gains one yard around right end. Fourth down
and 13 to go. Rather punted 55 yards out of bounds. Davidson’s ball on their own one-yard line. Laird punted
25 yards out of bounds. Tech’s ball on Davidson’s 26-yard line. Barron hit right tackle for three yards. Half up.
Score—Tech 19; Davidson 0.

THIRD QUARTER

Lyman kicked off 50 yards to Laird who returned 15. Spratt gained five yards over center. Spratt gained two more
through right tackle. Moore was thrown for a six-yard loss. Laird punted 48 yards to McWhorter who returned 20. Ball
on Davidson’s 40-yard line. Murphy hit right tackle for a six-yard gain. McWhorter gained three yards over right tackle. Murphy
made one yard over right guard for a first down. Tech has substitutions of almost the entire team. McWhorter clipped
off four yards through right tackle. Godwin made two yards over right guard. McWhorter made three yards over right tackle.
Ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line. McWhorter goes over right guard two yards for a first down. Harris went over left
tackle for seven yards. Murphy gained four yards through left guard and made it first down. Ball on eight-yard line.
Time out for Tech. Harris gained four yards over left tackle. Godwin made two yards over right tackle. Carter replaced
Godwin. Tech was penalized half the distance to their goal for slugging. Ball on Tech’s 49-yard line. A forward pass
was grounded. Fourth down and 51 to go. McWhorter punted out of bounds on Davidson’s 13-yard line. Laird gained two
over center. Laird failed to gain over center. Laird punted 40 yards to Harris, who returned three. Tech’s ball on
Davidson’s 48-yard line. On a double pass McWhorter made eight yards over right tackle. Murphy gained three over center for
a first down. Murphy hit center for two yards. McWhorter got one yard over right tackle. Harris hit right tackle
for 10 yards and a first down. Harris hit left guard for three more yards. Ball on Davidson’s 21-yard line.
Murphy fumbled and recovered for a six-yard loss. A forward pass was incomplete. McWhorter punted 25 yards out of bounds.
Davidson’s ball on their eight-yard line. Laird punted 45 yards to Harris who returned 20. Tech is penalized 15 yards
for holding. Ball in mid-field. McWhorter was thrown for a three-yard loss. Quarter up. Score—Tech, 19; Davidson, 0.

FOURTH QUARTER

Murphy gained two yards through right guard. Murphy got four yards over right guard. Fourth down and seven to go.
McWhorter punted to Davidson’s 10-yard line, the ball fall- (Continued on Page Eight)
