THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1922.

ALUMNI NEWS

DO YOU KNOW—
1. That this issue will probably be the last for this college year?
2. That you will be met at the train by the Alumni Entertainment Committee?
3. That you will be given rooms in Watts Dormitory according to classes, each class together as far as possible?
4. That if you wish to bring your family with you, places will be provided for them in private homes?
5. That class banquets will be arranged for if wanted?
6. That a register will be kept of every Alumnus, his class, room, and boarding house?
7. That Chambers building will probably be removed this summer and this is your last opportunity to see it?
8. That you are supposed to wear your class colors?
9. That if you bring your class spirit, smile, speak to everybody, and have lots of pep, you will enjoy
it more and help the others to enjoy it also?
10. That it is necessary to know how many to expect, so please write F. L. Jackson if you find
it possible to come, and arrangements will be made for you?

D. P. HUTCHISON DIED RECENTLY.
One of Davidson’s Noted Alumni and Charlotte’s Pioneers Dead.

Mr. D. P. Hutchison, a prominent member of the class of '74, died recently at his home in Charlotte. After
declining health covering a period of six years, he passed away on the morning of Tuesday, April 25th; paralysis was
the immediate cause of his death. Like many truly great men, he had abounding hope and faith in the future
of his native city of Charlotte. His was not only a dream, but much of his time was devoted to
public life, and he was known throughout the city as a public-spirited man. Mr. Hutchison was a strong advocate for
anything he believed was for the betterment of his town and country. For 25 years he was the chairman of
the board of trustees for Charlotte township, this board having charge of all the road and street building within the
limits of the township and outside the city limits. Throughout this 25-year period, he was closely associated with C. H.
Wolfe and Col. W. W. Phifer, and this caused them to be known as the “magisterial triumvirate.” The following tribute
has been paid to him: “He was a firm believer in progress and a champion of such measures and movements
as he believed were conducive to the progress of the city. He was conservative in all his views, a man
of firm convictions and unmovable when he took a stand for or against a faction or an issue. “His influence
in political affairs was great, and by reason of his following and strength of his views, it was far-reaching. Any
issue that he believed conducive to a greater Charlotte, found his loyal support.” Though Mr. Hutchison was never a seeker
of public office, he repeatedly held various offices of responsibility and importance while a citizen of Charlotte. He was a
member of the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. He is survived by two daughters and one grandson.

Get a taste of dormitory life again. Come to commencement.

WHO? WHAT? WHERE?

Mr. J. C. Calhoun, ’18, is manager of the Coca Cola business of Darlington, S.C.
Mr. J. H. Carson, ’16, is in business in Charlotte.
Mr. J. E. Carter, '15, is practicing law in Mt. Airy, N. C.
Mr. L. B. Crayton, '16, is manager of the National Bank and Commerce building.
Mr. Ted Cashion, ’17, is in business in Gastonia, N. C.
Mr. C. H. Cathey, ’20, is teaching school near Maxton, N. C. His address is R. F. D., No. 5,
Maxton.
Mr. W. R. Sealey, ’07, is one of Greenville, S. C.’s prosperous business men.
Mr. J. O. Cobb, ’12, is banking in Durham, N. C.
Mr. M. Cosby, '12, is located at the Jefferson Hotel in Columbia, S.C.
Mr. G. H. Brockenbrough, '07, is with the Fidelity Mfg. Co., of Charlotte.

HERE AND THERE.

Mr. Raymond Wallace, ex-’23, is a student at Washington and Lee University.
At the University of Virginia are Messrs. E. M. Booker, ’20, F. La Fayette Knight, '20, and W. De Kabb
Wylie, '19.
Rev. H. R. Murchison, ’93, was recently called to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at Sanford, N. C. He
has been a professor at Columbia Seminary.
Mr. E. B. Moore, ex-’19, with his wife and daughter, recently moved from Charlotte to Virginia.
Mr. W. E. Holt, ex-’84, a prosperous business man of Memphis, Tenn., was lately appointed national councillor to represent the
States of Tennessee, Arkansas, Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Kentucky in the Chamber of Commerce of the United States. He is
to be in Washington May 15-18 attending a meeting of the National Council and of the U. S. Chamber of
Commerce.

MARRIAGES.

A. G. Oltman, ’21, of Winston-Salem, will be married to Miss Mary Dandridge Bridges, of Charlotte, the latter part of
June.

Be Here for Commencement.

ATTENTION CLASS OF ’17.

Dear Classmates:

In the absence of a regularly elected alumni president, I am taking it upon myself to use the columns of
The Davidsonian to sound the clarion call for a 100 percent reunion when commencement comes around May 28-31. I have
heard from a number of you and if the enthusiasm of these comparatively few is any index, ours without a
doubt is going to be a record-breaker in point of both attendance and interest. Now, let every man who has
not already done so begin makingArrangements right now to get off from his work-a-day cares for at least a couple
of days, so that his face may not be missing when the gang’s all there. Eb. Nesbit and Bill Neal
will have plenty of room around the festive board for all of us, and of course the bullfests will continue
indefinitely as of old “on the hall.” Truly “college ties can ne’er be broken,” and there'll be a peculiar pleasure
in the hearty handshakes and renewal of the old friendships. Bring the family, if you have any, or if, like
myself, you haven’t any, don’t be ashamed to come anyway. Faithfully yours, Bie I. Keithen.

DELTA PI KAPPA INITIATES SEVEN EMBRYO JOURNALISTS

The Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity held a very interesting meeting on Friday night. The meeting was held for the
purpose of introducing seven new members into the sacred rights of this august order, these initiates being L. D. Elkins,
W. T. Elliott, W. P. Brown, W. A. Gamble, E. H. Mauze, Aiken, and Dunbar Ogden. The meeting was interesting
in two respects, first in that it furnished amusement for the members in the performance of the initiation rites, and
secondly in that a copious feed was furnished to the whole fraternity. The feed consisted of three complete courses and
was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone.

MRS. BICKETT WILL SPEAK
(Continued from page 1)

ful, but in every way befitting the occasion on which she will speak. In addition to this, the Laymen’s Double
Quartette, of Charlotte, will render special music, carrying out in song the program in honor of our mothers. This double
quartette has visited a number of places in the State and has won a place of high rank among other
quartettes. This feature of the program will add much to its impressiveness and it will be a rare treat to
hear them sing.

VACHEL LINDSAY
(Continued from page 1)

his poem, the “Gypsies,” preceded by a short talk on gypsies, in which he told of their dress, independence, and
occupations, dwelling especially on their fortune-telling, and their propensity for roaming. His poem tells of the thoughts that overtake one
when hearing a gypsy fiddler. Another poem pictured the typical farmer-preacher of Indiana, “a citizen well-nigh a king,” who read
by night and built his life by day; a statesman in the field, and “a man who served a rigid
Christ.” Probably his most interesting interpretation was the one giving an old negro preacher’s sermon on Simon Legree, inspired by
seeing “Uncle Tom’s Cabin.” Simon was a terrible character with every fault possible and “he wore a snake-skin tie.” Simon
was soon “down there with the de-vo-oo-ol” where all of his kind go. Several other readings were given, including the
“Building of Springfield,” the poet’s home town. Mr. Lindsay came to Davidson from Boston and Richmond under the auspices of
the Blue Pencil Club, of the College, and the Book Lovers’ and Thelemites of the village.

See your old classmates at commencement.

SOUTH CAROLINA ENCOUNTER
(Continued from page 2)

Gibson, cf .......... 4 3 0 0 2 0
MU <6). cinessabsnuiwank 2 0 0 1 1 1
Keehive ............ 3 0 3 4 2 3
Daviss p ........... 3 0 0 0 0 6
Totals ............ 27 4 5 27 14 2

Score by innings:
Davidson .......... 000 020 010—3
Clemson .......... 300 000 01x—4

Summary: Two base hits—M. Erwin, Reaves. Three base hits—Turnipseed, Keel. Left on bases—Davidson 7; Clemson 3. Stolen bases—L. Erwin, McMillian,
Freeman. Sacrifice hits—L. Erwin, Brown, Woodward 2, Sally. Walked—by McPherson 3. Struck out—by McPherson 2; Davis 4. Time of game—1
hour, 25 minutes. Umpires—May and Werner.

Get young again—you are as young as you feel anyway—come to commencement.

Systems of Steam Heating For Comfort and Results
C. FERBER WHITE,
Sales Eng.
911 Commercial Nat'l. Bank Bldg.
Charlotte

STATESVILLE PRINTING CO.
Statesville, N. C.

IF YOU WANT IT
PRINTED
BRADY PRINTING
PRINTING STATIONERY COMPANY
We Print It Right
ARE THE FOLKS TO SEE!
231 S. TRYON ST.

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life If you have a NEW EDISON in the home
If you do not have one you are missing a lot
LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON
“The phonograph with a soul”
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A HOME COMPANY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N. C.
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
Box 553 H. J. Spencer, Mgr.

A HOME BUILDER
The Oise Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager

Satisfactory Plumbing and Heating
McAULEY, GARRISON & HOPKINS CO.
Plumbing and Heating Contractors
313-315 East Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Phone 143
IDEAL ARCOLA HEATING DISTRIBUTORS

DIG UP A DIME FOR TAG DAY, MAY 15th.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE

A Federal Judge recently made the remark that if the Presbyterians knew what they have at Davidson they would tell
the world about that institution. Presbyterians are usually modest about boosting their wares. The recent bulletin on Davidson’s Service to
the Presbyterian Church was a revelation to many who read it. Favorable comments have been received from far and near.
One minister wrote: “It ought to be in the families of everybody in America.” He sent the names of the
heads of the families of his congregation with the request that bulletins be mailed to each. A North Carolina school
superintendent wrote: “The number of Davidson men in Theological Seminaries was a surprise to me.” At least one daily paper
copied the bulletin as a leading editorial.
