THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1922. - ALUMNI NEWS

JAMES C. HARPER, 1915, JOINS HARPER FURNITURE COMPANY

James C. Harper, 1915, who for the past year and a half has been connected with the banks and brokerage department of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, has resigned his position and will leave April 1st for Lenoir, his former home, where he will be associated with the Harper Furniture Company. Mr. Harper came to Winston-Salem from the Guaranty Trust Company, of New York City, with which institution he became connected after retiring from the Army with the rank of captain in the infantry. He received his education in Davidson College, the University of North Carolina and Columbia University. He is a very fine business man and his splendid executive ability won for him the high esteem of his banking institution. Mr. Harper's father, Mr. G. F. Harper, one of the pioneer furniture manufacturers of the state, retired from the business in Lenoir some time ago. The son goes to take the place his father occupied in the business. He will be associated in the business with J. A. Marshall, who holds an interest in the company.

BIRTHS.

The announcement comes from Atlanta of the birth of a son to Rev. and Mrs. Benjamin Rice Lacy, Jr., 1906. The baby is Ben Rice Lacy, 3rd. His father, B. R. Lacy, a fighting parson of world war fame, is the son of State Treasurer Benjamin Rice Lacy, who was named for his mother’s father, the late Benjamin Rice, of Virginia, and a distinguished minister of the Presbyterian Church.

HERE AND THERE.

Rev. H. D. Corbett, 1913, removed from St. Matthews, S. C., to Bowling Green, S. C.
C. B. Johnstone is a successful and prosperous business man of Mocksville, N. C.
Present upper classmen at Davidson and all alumni who knew him will be sorry to learn of the illness of C. N. Morrison, who graduated at Davidson last year. Mr. Morrison was forced to leave Union Seminary at the end of the first term’s work. The doctors say he will possibly recover after a six months’ complete rest.
O. E. Buchholz, ’00, is a professor and director of extension work of the Assembly’s Training School, Richmond, Va.
Geo. Robson, ’19, stood sixth in his class at the University of Pennsylvania. The class is a large one and it is considered quite an honor to have attained so high a mark of scholarship.
Norman Johnson, '15, whose reputation as a debater and tennis player still lives behind him on the campus, is now located in Blacksburg, Va.
J. D. Gillespie, ’10, has moved to 109 East Broadway, Louisville, Ky.
E. C. Murray, ’14, has changed his place of residence from Zitacuaro, Mexico, to Nuevo, Mexico Ten, Mexico City.
Rev. R. P. Smith, ’73, of Asheville, N. C., delivered a series of addresses at Columbia Theological Seminary last week on the subject of Home Missions.
At the Young People’s Conference which is to be held at Riverside, June 13th to 20th, the following Davidson men are to be among the speakers: W. T. Thompson, ’05; Rev. B. R. Lacy, D.D., ’06, and Rev. E. M. Monroe, Jr., ’08. Mr. Monroe is publicity chairman.
More than 14,000 graduates and former students of Oxford University, England, are world war veterans.
Courses in journalism are now taught in 175 American colleges and universities.

CAMPUSISMS.

Misses Mary Elizabeth Wearn, Cornelia Wearn, Mildred Henderson, Hessie Seabrook, Jane Kilgore, Virginia Bell, and Willie Stewart, of Charlotte, motored up for the game Saturday.
E. T. Cashion, '17, of Gastonia, spent Saturday on the Hill with friends.
Mrs. J. C. Anderson, Miss Margaret Anderson, Mr. Robert Anderson, of Bristol, Tenn., spent the week-end on the Hill, visiting their son and brother.
Mr. George Ivey, of Charlotte, spent a short while on the Hill Saturday.
Mr. Brady, representing the Brady Printing Co., of Statesville, was on the Hill Monday.
Pitts Douglas, ’20, who is now teaching at Woodberry Forest School, is spending his spring holidays with old friends on the Hill.
The recipients of Mrs. Robson’s hospitality during the past week were: C. L. Morrison, A. C. Ray, H. I. Shepherd, R. W. Oeland, W. L. Pomeroy, J. P. Price, P. H. McAlpine, K. S. McAlpine, R. Bitzer, A. W. Peters, and J. K. Price.
Mrs. D. A. McCallum, of Dillon, S. C., visited her son, B. McCallum, '25, Sunday.

TOWN NEWS.

Mr. and Mrs. Hengeveld have rented the Ellenwood cottage for the summer.
Miss Orrie Steele was on the sick list last week.
Miss Bonnie Shelton spent the weekend at home.
Mrs. Pettengill delightfully entertained the Concord Sewing Club Wednesday evening.
Mrs. Paisley gave a tea on last Thursday in honor of Mrs. Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va.
Miss Mary Lafferty has returned home after wintering in Charlotte.
Mrs. Schenck will chaperon a group of girls from Charlotte for Junior Speaking, among them being Miss Sallie Schenck, a student at Mary Baldwin Seminary.
Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell have secured passage for a tour in Europe this summer.

JUNIORS READY.
(Continued from page 1)

represent six Southern States and two foreign countries. Their subjects range from “The New Love” and “About Face” to “A Tribute to Her,” the last being a patriotic Tar Heel’s appreciation of his home State. Eight orations will come Saturday morning and eight Saturday evening. With the passing of the years the social features of the occasion have increased in importance until now Junior Speaking stands out as the gala time of the spring semester. Then for an all too short period the fair sex rules “the Hill,” and even the honor roll grinds forget their books to make merry with their lighter-hearted fellows. And “the Hill” resounds continually with the joyous call of “Fire”—by which, of ancient custom, the campus has been wont to greetits fair visitors. The class of 1923 has arranged a most interesting series of entertainments for their guests. Friday afternoon there will be a baseball game between Davidson and Oak Ridge; Friday evening the Dramatic Club will present a program of three one-act plays, after which the fraternities will tender a reception to the class and its guests. Saturday afternoon Davidson will again play Oak Ridge, and Saturday night, following the orations, the class will present a carnival in the college gymnasium which has been duly decorated for the occasion.

REV. J. E. WOOL CALLED BY DEATH LAST SATURDAY

Last Saturday morning Rev. J. E. Wool, father of James C. Wool, of the Senior class, laid down the sword of Christian warfare and received from the Master's hand the palm of eternal victory. With heartfelt sorrow the students of Davidson learned of the death of Mr. Wool at Jackson, Miss. Death resulted from influenza and the pneumonia into which it developed. Until only a few weeks ago Mr. Wool was pastor of the Pegram Street Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, where he served for three years, endearing himself to all who knew him. Recently he and Mrs. Wool moved to Jackson, Miss., where he went to become Superintendent of Home Missions in Central Mississippi Presbytery. He had just entered into his new duties when he was overtaken by sickness. In addition to serving as pastor of the Pegram Street Presbyterian Church he was stated clerk of Mecklenburg Presbytery for several years. Also, he had served as pastor of Mallard Creek Presbyterian Church, in Mecklenburg County, for three years and had been pastor at Cornelius before coming to the Pegram Street Presbyterian Church.

Mr. Wool was born at Nyack, N. Y., and had reached his sixtieth year when death came. He was licensed to preach by East Hanover Presbytery, in Virginia, in May, 1886, and in October of the same year was ordained a minister by Roanoke Presbytery. His first pastorate was with Briery Church, in Prince Edward County, Virginia, which he served from 1886 to 1890. He was evangelist of Abingdon Presbytery for six years and from 1896 until 1901 was evangelist of the Synod of Virginia. He then moved to Oxford, N. C., serving as pastor there for five years and at Wilson, N. C., for a time, before coming to the Mecklenburg Presbytery. During the past seven years he had served as pastor at the churches of Cornelius, Mallard Creek, and Pegram Street.

Mr. Wool was regarded by his associates as a truly honorable, upright, straightforward and God-fearing man of highest Christian character. He was known to a large circle of friends, all of whom held him in the very highest regard. His association with the people of Charlotte and Mecklenburg County won for him a warm place in their hearts and it was with deep regret on the part of his congregation, the Presbyterian and other ministers, and the people at large, that he left Charlotte to go to the work which he was engaged in in Mississippi, a work which he felt offered him a greater field for good. The deepest sympathy of the entire student body of Davidson goes out to J. C. Wool in his great bereavement.

D. ALBERT HILLHOUSE ELECTED NEW SECRETARY OF THE “Y”

At a recent meeting of the Y. M. C. A., A. M. Hillhouse was elected secretary of this organization for the year. He has served capably as president of the Sophomore class during the past year, and has already shown his interest in the “Y” work in many ways. With Pat Crawford as president, Hugh Smith as vice-president, and Hillhouse as secretary, the “Y” is sure to prosper in the year to come.

The Telemite’s Club met with Mrs. Fleagle on Friday evening, having as guests husbands of the members, and several members of the College Band. Dr. Erwin read a delightful paper on Bernard Shaw. Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Rumple have gone to Norfolk, Va., where Mr. Rumple is connected with Gilchrist Construction Company.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

ERNEST ELLISON
“Just Insurance”
Any Kind Any Where
203 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL.D., President
Oldest Theological Seminary in the Southern states. Young as the youngest in its progressive methods. A Theological Seminary that makes preachers. 42% of present student body from Davidson College. Catalogue and information upon request.

A money back guarantee with every box
Retail everywhere for 50c.
J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH
A substantial screw top box. A money back guarantee with every box. Retail everywhere for 50c.
J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life
If you have a NEW EDISON in the home
If you do not have one you are missing a lot
LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON
“The phonograph with a soul”
OFFICE SUPPLY & EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers
231 S. TRYON ST.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.