4 The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............. Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH................. First Managing Editor
L. D. ELKINS................. Second Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN.................. Athletic Editor
W. M. HESTER............... Literary Editor
S. GRACY.................... Alumni Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD............. Press Editor
COX.......................... Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.
BITZER, R.
CALHOUN, M. P.
FRWELL, B. D.
JONES, J. R.
JONES, R. R.
KNOX, W. I.
LACY, T. A.
McILWAINE, C. M.
McIVER, D. D.
MOFFETT, A. N.
MOSS, H. M.
PRICE, H. B.
SHAKEE, W. T.
TULLER, C. D.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WILDMAN, A. C.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

Special Reporters for this issue are:
Pomeroy, W. L.; Crow, E. B.; Moomaw, E. C.; Galloway, W. F.; Beal, M. S.; Graves, R. N.; Austin, J.;
Briggs, J. R.; Lake, J. A.; Patton, J. H.; McLean, G.; Moss, H. O.; Moore, W. W.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
COOPER, G. E., Business Manager
W. J. JAMES, Assistant Business Manager
ALLEN, J. H., Assistant Business Manager
DAVIS, GUILLE, Assistant Business Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
EAST, Circulation Manager
MOOMAW, J. A., Assistant Circulation Manager
THOMPSON, B. L., Assistant Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Some Class, Seniors!

The stylish Seniors we see walking around the campus and swinging glossy new canes could hardly look more imposing if
they tried. This little innovation brings them quite a pleasant distinction, we feel sure. With ’22 setting such an example,
it will no doubt be very hard in the future to restrain Seniors around graduation time from the desire to
follow in their footsteps.

All will agree, certainly, that after four years of strenuous mental labor here, a man should very justly feel a
pride in what he has accomplished. When commencement comes, with a diploma in one hand, a cane in the other,
and a fair guest to add her smile, nothing should mar their complete triumph.

Everyone enjoys the games played at Davidson—football, basketball, and baseball, especially since here with the band to help us back
the team, we can more often win. It is certainly good to hear of plans by which we can increase
the number of games here, and the proposition that Coach Gray is in favor of will help Davidson in quite
a number of ways. If he has everybody behind him, the college shop can become a reality and our athletics
receive another big impetus. While this will be something new, there is no reason why we can’t put it on
a paying basis here, and gain by it directly at the same time that we are gaining indirectly.

The new ruling that was made by the Carolina faculty concerning how much their students can receive for playing summer
baseball, and still be eligible for the Carolina teams, is quite striking. Considering, also, the rule prohibiting men from leaving
one school’s team to join another, we can see clearly that the policy of cleaner athletics, with as much professionalism
as possible debarred, is gaining ground fast. Anything, however, can be carried to an extreme. That there is a good
deal of unfairness in a college teaching its students a most successful way to earn money and then forbidding them
to make use of this, is very true. The contention that a faculty can tell in practically every case whether
a man is a professional or really wants an education, is well founded; and if settled in this way, many
men could make good salaries during their vacations and easily earn enough to educate themselves, who under these new rules
will be restrained from accepting places paying large salaries.

ARE YOU DROPPING R. O. T. C.?

Our readers, we hope, were all interested in the account of what the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson
is doing as this was pictured for them in the past week’s issue of the paper. From time to time
recently, a great deal has been said about the different phases of this training as received here, and when its
great value to the school and to the individual is considered, we are glad to try in every way possible
to bring these facts more clearly to the attention of the students and especially to the attention of those who
are now about to decide whether they will continue this course with the training and financial inducements it offers or
drop it.

Some of the men who have been to military schools are at times tempted to criticize Davidson’s unit; but when
we compare it with all similar ones in this part of the country, no one can deny that it is
superior to many and ranks right along with the best both in efficiency and discipline. The attitude of indifference and
insubordination that men take at many colleges where the R. O. T. C. is found is the cause for any
discredit that falls upon the organization. Our course is interesting as well as instructive, and no one should have such
an attitude here. It is one that offers so many obvious benefits for Juniors and Seniors that a man should
consider all its inducements seriously before he turns down his opportunity to enter it. Besides this, the officers in charge
are interested in the school and in the men individually, which is a condition that we have always desired here,
but one very hard to obtain in this kind of instruction. The chance to take the course under such favorable
conditions should not be lightly thrown away.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1922.

Open Forum

EDITOR’S NOTE. It seems necessary to repeat to the student body that the Open Forum is not an additional editorial
column existing merely for the expression of its editor’s opinions. It is, as its name implies, a means by which
any and every student can give his views and his criticisms of an evil or any unfairness that exists on
the campus. By it appeals can be made to the student body which can reach it in no other way.
This column is also for discussion. Surely you do not agree with all the statements made in its articles. Answer
them. Bring your articles to six Rumple at any time. This is your section of the Davidsonian. Let's make it
the most interesting part of the paper.

Appreciation.

On Saturday we play the last baseball game of our season. We have a good team this year and although
they haven't won as many games as we would have liked, they have worked and worked hard. They have given
their best for Davidson and have had only mediocre support in return. Baseball has been somewhat neglected by the student
body this spring. Many have not known when the team left and when it returned, and yet the fact remains
that while most of us have been indulging in good cases of spring fever, these men have practiced faithfully on
the diamond every afternoon. Last fall sweaters were given to the football letter men. We appreciated what they had done
and were glad for them to have them. Last winter, by the charge of a small admission fee, the basketball
men were also given sweaters. Let us now show our spirit of loyalty to the men who have represented us
on the baseball diamond. By charging 25 cents for all students at the game Saturday, these men could all be
supplied with handsome sweaters. They deserve some concrete symbol of our appreciation of what they have done for us. Let’s
give it to them.

A CHEERFUL GIVER.

LIBRARY NEWS.

A set of three volumes of the Encyclopedia Britannica has recently been added to the library. This new set just
issued constitutes a 12th edition of the 29 volumes issued in 1911 and supplies distinctive information dealing with the events
andDevelopments between 1910 and 1922. The new volumes are dedicated to President Harding and King George. The Encyclopedia first appeared
in 1768 and since that period 11 editions have been published.

MINISTERIAL BAND. At the meeting of the Ministerial Band Sunday afternoon, the new constitution of the band was voted on
and adopted. In connection with the constitution, the ministerial pledge was discussed and adopted. The installation of officers took place,
with Baker as president; Lee McLean, vice-president, and A.-M. Martin, secretary and treasurer. Baker closed the meeting with a few
words in which he gave some plans for the band’s work next year.

FOUR PROMINENT STUDENTS TAKEN INTO SIGMA UPSILON. At a recent meeting of Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity, no regular program was
carried out but the meeting was one of the most important of the year since the question of the selection
of the new men was before the chapter. After quite a bit of discussion, the following men were pledged and
will soon be taken in: Davidson, Cooper, Fewell, and Smith, H. H. As the future of every such organization depends
on the men taken in each year, the Davidson chapter has taken care in its selection and has chosen wisely.

Upon the recent recommendation of the staff, J. M. Williams has been taken into the Reporters’ Club.

PROPOSED CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS. A man can hold ten points but no two five-point positions:
- President Student Body, 5.
- President Athletic Association, 5.
- Manager Baseball, 4.
- President Y. M. C. A., 5.
- Managing Editor Davidsonian, 2.
- Editor-in-Chief Magazine, 4.
- President Literary Society, 3.
- Editor-in-Chief Annual, 4.
- President Senior Class, 3.
- Manager Football, 5.
- Manager Basketball, 4.
- Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian, 5.
- Business Manager Davidsonian, 3.
- Business Manager Magazine, 3.
- Major R. O. T. C., 3.
- Business Manager Annual, 2.

Constitution Amendments:
Article I. Sec. 3—To be added: Freshmen become members of Student Body with full rights to vote, immediately upon seating
of their president on the council.

Article II. Sec. 5—To be added: In any case appealed, a simple majority vote is necessary to reverse the decision
of the council.

Article III. Sec. 6—To read: The above officers shall be elected for a term of one college year entering into
their active duties two weeks before the date of commencement.

Sec. 5—To be added to last sentence: except for the last two weeks before commencement.

Repeal Article VI. To be declared null and void.

Article VII. To read: There shall be appointed each year the student representative upon the audit board to inspect once
during fall and twice during spring the books and accounts of student organizations responsible to the College. This includes the
books and accounts of the Annual, Magazine, and Davidsonian, whose treasurers are to be responsible to the council for having
their books audited.

Amendments passed upon by ten men of the council and submitted by reading to Student Body on April the twenty-sixth.
Thomas M. Lowry, Jr. To be voted upon after second reading and any necessary explanations, and after having been on
table at least ten days.

TENNIS TEAM TAKES SPRING TRIP PRIOR TO STATE MEET. The Davidson tennis team, composed of Hugh Bradley, Ed Cunningham, Curtis
Ormand, and Louis Wilkenson, returned Saturday from their invasion of North Carolina. Although they did not succeed in bringing home
the bacon in every case, they did themselves proud, and feel all primed for the State tournament to be held
in Durham, May 4-6. Their first match on the North Carolina trip was with Trinity. The Trinity teams were going
exceptionally well, and Davidson was perhaps a little over-confident after having defeated Trinity so decisively last fall. As a result,
the two doubles and two of the four singles went to Trinity, giving them the victory, 140-60. The team went
from Trinity to Carolina determined to make up for their defeat of the day before, and by excellent playing the
Davidson racketeers split even with what is, no doubt, one of the best tennis teams in the State. The entire
Davidson team displayed the old-time form, and Bradley in particular played a wonderful game, winning from the renowned Tench Coxe
in two sets, 8-6, and 7-5. Ed Cunningham succeeded in defeating his opponent by the score of 6-4, 0-6, 7-5.
Ormand and Wilkenson dropped their singles to Johnston and Burton respectively. In the doubles, Billy Coxe and Burton composed the
team for Carolina which successfully defeated Wilkerson and Cunningham, 6-4, 6-3. Bradley and Ormand took sweet revenge a little later
by copping their match against Tench Coxe and Johnston to the tune of 8-6, 6-2. Elon was to be met
next, but hard rains left the courts in such bad condition that it was necessary to call the match off.
After the showing the team made against Carolina, our hopes are bright for the State championship both in the singles
and doubles.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Only A Dad. Only a dad with a tired face, Coming home from his daily race, Bringing little of gold
or fame To show how well he has played the game But glad in his heart that his own rejoice
To see him come and hear his voice. Only a dad of a brood of four, One of ten million
men or more, Plodding along in the daily strife, Bearing the whips and scorns of life With never a whimper
of pain or hate For the sake of those who at home await. Only a dad, neither rich nor proud,
Merely one of a surging crowd, Toiling, striving from day to day Facing whatever may come his way; Silent, whenever
the harsh condemn, And bearing it all for the love of them. Only a dad, but he gives his all,
To smooth the way for his children small, Doing with courage stern and grim The deeds that his father did
for him. This is the line for him I pen— Only a dad, but the best of men. —Selected.

She knew a Hog. A New Orleans lady was waiting to buy a ticket at the picture show, when a
stranger bumped her shoulder. She glared at him, feeling it was done “intentionally.” “Well,” he growled, “don’t eat me up.”
“You are in no danger, sir,” she said, “I am a Jewess.”—The Student.

At Cornell University it has been estimated that it costs a student four times as much to live today as
it did fifty years ago. Not including the cost of clothing or travel, the average student at Cornell spends during
a year $1,150, as for a total of $280 in 1872. Although no amount can be definitely set which would
apply to all students, the 1922 estimate of what the average student spends, the maximum reaches $1,500, while some self-supporting
students are able to live on $750.

There was a young maiden from Siam Who said to her lover, Young Kiam, “If you kiss me of course,
You will have to use force, But of course you are stronger than I am.” —College Reflector.

Understand Men? “If you try to please a man he decides you are in love with him. And if you
didn’t try to please him he says you are disagreeable. If you talk about yourself he is horrid. And if
you talk about him he gets nervous. If you believe all he says he thinks you are a simpleton, And
if you don’t he calls you a cynic. If you are jealous of him he vows you are narrow-minded. And
if you are not he fumes because you don’t like him enough to care. If you have other sweethearts, he
accuses you of being a Theda Bara, And if you let them all go but him he loses interest immediately.
If you wear narrow skirts and rakish hats he laughs at you, And if you adopt dress reform, he elopes
with a chorus girl. Understand Men? I say, do you think I am the eighth wonder of the world?” —Ex.

One of the students of Chemistry at the University of Washington has invented a new cigarette holder. He took a
four-foot length of glass tubing and wrapped it around a broom handle, making a nice coil. Then he melted a
mouthpiece on one end, and had a holder that cools the smoke and catches all the nicotine.

Another whack at Trinity, and we feel quite confident of the result.
