Y 2G oo. i. * 2 4 dh ee THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1922. f* ro 2 A. E. F. CLUB DISCUSSES LITERARY NEWS ATHLETIC NEWS Dr. and Mrs. Wilson McConnell entertained the A. E. F. Club at their home. 

MR. J. LEE SLOAN RECEIVES LETTER FROM COACH BILL

Mr. J. Lee Sloan, of Davidson, has received the following letter from Coach Speng in reply to a telegram of congratulations on the university's victory in Dixie Basketball:

Dear Mr. Sloan:

Your wire of March 2d to myself and my team was awaiting me here on my return from Atlanta. I want to thank you for thinking of us, and assure you...

The purpose of the meeting was stated by L. A. Taylor, president of the club, in which he explained that it was generally felt by friends of the college that steps should be taken to erect a memorial to the men who represented Davidson in the World War. He then gave as a suggestion for the contemplated memorial, a tower which would include a clock, and a complete set of chimes. At the conclusion of Taylor’s talk, a round-table discussion was held, and it was the general opinion of all present that this sort of memorial would be the most impressive, beneficial, and appreciated that could be erected. The question of cost, etc., was brought up and at the suggestion of Dr. Lingle, a committee composed of Drs. Richards and MacConnell, and Messrs. Taylor and Allison was appointed to secure the necessary information and report back to the club.

NON-SOCIETY JUNIOR ORATORICAL GEMS

The speeches of the members of the Junior class not belonging to any of the literary societies were delivered in Shearer Hall on the evenings of March 13th and 15th. These speeches showed careful preparation and were well spoken. Bob Gordon spoke upon the problems of immigration and brought forth the astonishing fact that one million foreigners immigrate to the United States each year. J. E. Haney, in a speech entitled “Memories,” stated that memories of childhood are the memories that will afford the greatest comfort in old age. H. S. McCallum told how the world is wildly pursuing pleasure but that real pleasure can never be attained until the fellowship of Christ is sought for. J. B. McCallum outlined the characteristics and traits which constitute true citizenship. Since the fate of the coming generation rests upon the present one, it therefore behooves each man to set an example of a true citizen for the oncomers to follow. N. R. Currie showed how large a part the Federal Reserve Bank is playing in the rising prosperity of the United States. R. P. Alexander spoke upon the importance of the merchant marine to the different nations of the world. It is of particular importance to the United States due to the great increase in the shipping business of this country. R. L. Black set forth the protection which the American Cotton Association affords to the farmers and of the many losses which it averts. The aims of this association and the reforms which it is endeavoring to accomplish were clearly stated. In a speech on aircraft, R. E. Blue outlined the construction of an airplane and then showed what a great asset it is to the commerce of today. J. M. Bostick gave a summary of the life of Benedict Arnold and then proceeded to compare the politician of today to this traitor. W. E. Crane made an earnest plea for the substitution of new and scientific methods of education in the school system in place of the slip-shod methods which are now largely in vogue. S. M. Davis outlined the remarkable career and attainments of Robert E. Lee and described the qualities and characteristics of this great man which have caused him to hold such a warm place in the hearts of the Southern people. J. C. Deaver described the inadequacy and the lack of unity of the present school systems of America. The passage of the Smith-Towner bill for national control of schools was offered as a solution to the difficulty. M. B. Foil, in one of the best speeches of the evening, traced the rise of America from the original 13 colonies to its present position as a world power. The list of speakers and subjects were as follows:

R. P. Alexander — “The Merchant Marine.”
James Allen — “The Passing of the Grey.”
R. L. Black — “The American Cotton Association.”
R. E. Blue — “Aircraft.”
J. M. Bostick — “A Modern Arnold.”
W. E. Crane — “To Guess and to Know.”
S. M. Davis — “Robert E. Lee.”
J. C. Deaver — “Educational Influence of Sociology.”
J. E. Haney — “Prohibition.”
H. S. McCallum — “The Pursuit of Pleasure.”
J. B. McCallum — “Citizenship.”
J. A. McCrary — “The Work of the Master Builder.”
J. McCrummen — “German Influence in American Higher Education.”
N. R. Currie — “The Way to Prosperity.”

The final round of Junior speeches for non-society men was held in Shearer Hall on the evening of Wednesday, March 15th. The best speeches of the occasion were those of Tuller, Crawford, Cooper, Northrop, Reid, and McRainey. C. D. Tuller, speaking on “Teamwork,” showed in a clear and comprehensive manner the importance of co-operation in America today. Pat Crawford in a beautiful and appealing manner portrayed “The Wounded Soldier” far away from home and country. W. J. Cooper, with an easy and intimate manner spoke of “A Singular Young Man,” dealing with the works of the English poet, Alfred Noyes. H. F. Northrop, in a well-written and delivered speech told of “The Romance of Music” and its valuable effect in relieving the monotony of daily life. R. M. Reid, speaking on “A College Diploma” showed the value of a college course to the everyday American. J. H. McRainey, in an earnest and interesting manner described “Chemistry’s Contribution to Medicine,” bringing out some new phases of this important subject. The list of speakers with their subjects was as follows:

C. D. Tuller — Teamwork.
J. S. Whiteside — Monopolies.
E. T. Woolfork — Human Engineering.
G. D. Fleming — Why Go to College?
W. S. Buchanan — Vitamins.
H. H. Wyman — Colloids.
C. R. Crawford — The Wounded Soldier.
J. M. Barr — Balances.
E. T. Gentry — Alexander Hamilton.
H. H. Massey — Cost of War.
J. B. Sloan — Romance of Chemistry.
S. H. Bradley — The Purpose of the College.
W. J. Cooper — A Singular Young Man.
G. M. McCutcheon — Turning Points of History.
E. A. Nash — Development of Education.
H. F. Northrop — The Romance of Music.
R. M. Reid — A College Diploma.
J. T. Spillman — A College Bred Man.
J. H. McRainey — Chemistry’s Contribution to Medicine.
R. F. Sydenstricker — Borrowers and Lenders.
C. F. Teague — Democracy and Education.

FIVE NEW BOOKS ADDED TO THE LIBRARY COLLECTION

The library has added several new and interesting volumes to its shelves in the past week. These works are by the best known and most popular authors of the day. One of them especially deserves mention, since it is about a man whom all true Americans love and admire, Woodrow Wilson. The following list will give some idea of the diversity of the new works:

“Woodrow Wilson, As I Know Him,” by Joseph Tumulty.
“The Listener’s Guide to Music,” by Percy A. Scholes.
“To the Last Man,” by Zane Grey.
“Through the Shadows,” by O. Henry.
“Helen of the Old House,” by Harold Bell Wright.a meeting to be called in the near future. The purpose for which the meeting had been called having been disposed of, the men turned to discussing old times and the happenings of the A. E. F. during which Mrs. MacConnell, assisted by Mrs. Hurd, served very palatable refreshments consisting of a salad and sandwiches and coffee.

PANDEINIC DEFEATS METROPHILIAN IN DEBATE TRIALS

The debate between the Pandeinic and Metrophilian Literary Societies took place in the Philanthropic Society hall at 7:30 last Monday evening, March 20th. The meeting was opened with prayer by Buck Currie and was presided over by J. P. Price. The question was: “Resolved, That the Federal Government should own and operate the coal mines of the United States, constitutionality waived.” The affirmative side of the question was supported by W. Z. Bradford, J. M. Carr, and D. B. Wharton, representing the Metrophilian Society. The negative was supported by W. M. Cox, H. B. Price, and D. B. Walthall, members of the Pandeinic Society. The debate was highly interesting and many interesting points were brought out on both sides. The speeches were well delivered and showed much careful preparation and much research by all the participants. The decision of the judges was four to one in favor of the negative. Bradford received the Fresh-Soph debater’s medal for the Metrophilian Society. The medal for the Pandeinic Society will be decided in the finals to come off later.

METROPHILIANS DEBATE ON EMERALD ISLE PROBLEM

On the eve of St. Patrick’s Day, the Metrophilians held a very interesting program. The spirit of old Ireland was present, mingled with the fine irony of Scotland, and the discussion was full of pep. Gracy opened the argument for the affirmative, on the query, Resolved: That the present relations existing between England and Ireland are better than complete independence for Ireland. Those upholding the negative, arguing for the absolute freedom of Ireland were: Furches, Trawick, and Douglas. The opposition, which claimed that the Irish were better off as they are now, with relation to England, was composed of Gracy, Burney, and Lacy. It was only by a narrow margin that the latter won, as the negative was well prepared and gave them a close run for the decision. After the program, the meeting was opened for business and a medal and a diploma were selected. Society colors were also chosen. The idea of a conquering battleship on the storm-tossed deep blue was represented in the color scheme. The flower is to be blue and the color, battleship grey.

We had a great trip to Atlanta, and the team really played some good basketball. The people there did everything they could to make all of the different teams enjoy their stay in Atlanta. Everyone was very cordial to us, and we are all looking forward to returning there next season for the tournament. I hope that the Davidson team will also go to Atlanta next season, and from what I can hear of their team this year, they would have made a splendid showing had they entered the tournament this season. I am sorry that Carolina and Davidson were unable to get together on a game this year. It would have proved very interesting, and the outcome would have been doubtful, as I have heard that Davidson had a wonderful team. Please remember me to all my friends there, and with every good wish to you and your wife, I am, Very cordially yours, Bill Fetzer.

COMPANY “D” WINS R. O. T. C. INDOOR SHOOTING CONTEST

The finals of the Freshmen inter-company shooting match held recently, resulted in a victory for Company D. Company A followed a close second. Company D established a team record of 414 points out of a possible 500; and W. C. Ramsey, an individual record of 94 points out of a possible 100. The Connolly Target was used. The shooting by companies was as follows:

Company D:
Ramsey 94
Patterson 84

DR. J. M. MCCONNELL HAS PLACES FOR TEACHING WORK

Many of the Seniors will be interested to know that there will be an opportunity for numerous positions next year as teachers, at a reasonably good salary. Dr. J. M. McConnell, who has this work in charge, says that within the next sixty days he expects to have found places for all who wish to teach next year. Doctor McConnell, as chairman of the committee for that purpose, handles the requests for teachers and tries to fit the man to the place. Most of these requests come from privately-owned boys’ schools, such as McCallie, Woodbury, Bingham, etc. These schools are naturally anxious to secure men teachers and especially men who can help in the special activities such as coaching athletic teams, training debaters or helping glee clubs and dramatics. Here is a good opportunity for nearly every Senior. If he is undecided as to his future work, a year of school teaching will give him time in which to look around a little. If he intends to go further in his studies and lacks money, he can probably make as much or more in this way than in any other for his first year. Any Davidson alumnus who would like to see a Davidson man in a school in which he is interested should get in touch with Dr. McConnell.

Five inter-collegiate shooting matches have been arranged for April, as follows:
Ga. Tech, April 1st.
Miss. A. and M., April 15th.
Univ. of Fla., April 10th.
Univ. of Ga., April 26th.
N. C. State, April 29th.

There is to be another match arranged for Freshmen only. These matches are to be fired within 48 hours of dates listed, by a team of ten men, each of which will fire five shots at the Connolly target, from each position. Any man in the R. O. T. C. is eligible for these matches.

DAVIDSON DOWNS ALL-STARS
(Continued from page 1)

Roushee and sending Brown to third. Crawford then worked the squeeze play to perfection, laying down a nifty bunt, and Brown crossed the welcome mat. In the seventh Covington marked White for a free ticket to first, reached second on a passed ball and scored when Ranson dropped Neel’s lofter. Erwin completed the circuit in the next stanza on two errors and a pilfered cushion. McLeod went into the game as a pinch-hitter in the final frame and pumped a haymaker to center that Caldwell misjudged and McLeod dusted his way around to the third peg. He checked in a moment later when Brown lashed out a double to right. Crawford handled 16 chances in the field without a bobble and Erwin and Brown did good work in the outer gardens.

Box score:
Davidson:
ab r h po a e
Brown 2 1 1 2 5 0
Neel 5 0 2 1 4 4
Crawford, 1b 4 1 1 4 2 0
McMillian, c 3 0 0 3 2 1
Prichett, ss 4 0 1 4 1 1
Erwin, cf 4 1 1 4 0 0
Freeman, lf 2 1 2 0 0 0
Covington, 3b 1 0 0 1 1 0
Erwin, M., 3b 0 0 0 0 0 0
Sorrels, p 3 0 0 0 1 0
Boushee, p 2 1 1 0 1 0
McPherson, p 1 0 0 0 0 0
McLeod 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 33 6 6 27 15 6
*Batted for Covington in the eighth.

All-Stars:
ab r h po a e
Ranson 4 0 1 1 0 1
Irby 4 1 1 7 1 0
Stacks, 3b 4 1 1 2 0 0
Stough, rf 4 0 1 1 0 0
Pernett, 1b 4 0 1 7 1 0
Hagan, 2b 4 1 1 4 3 1
Barnhardt, c 4 1 2 6 2 0
Caldwell, cf 4 0 2 1 0 1
Currie, p 0 0 0 1 0 0
White, p 0 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 36 4 10 27 8 2

Score by innings:
Davidson 001 202 11x—6
All-Stars 000 210 100—4

Summary—Two-base hits: Ranson, Brown, Boushee; three-base hits: Stough, Barnhardt; stolen bases: Erwin, Irby (3); hit by pitched ball—by Currie: Sorrells; struck out: by Currie 2; by White 4; by Boushee 3; bases on balls, off Currie 3; off White 1; off Sorrels 1; off Boushee 1; off McPherson 2.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
SPORTING GOODS
Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros. RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 B. Trade St.
A. L. Foul, Mgr.
Phone 902