WE’RE BACKING YOU WILDCATS
THE DAVISONIAN
HELP MAKE REVIVAL A SUCCESS
“FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON”

Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 2, 1922 No. 7

“Y” SECRETARY ADDRESSES SUNDAY VESPER GATHERING
Buck Currie Speaks on Outstanding Sins in College Life
By J. Y. BOWIE

A message that sunk deep into the hearts of his hearers was delivered by Buck Currie, “Y” secretary, at the
vesper service held in Shearer Hall Sunday evening. Frank Johnson of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet presided, while Bill
Baker led the singing. Kretchman played the piano, and Thompson accompanied on a cornet. White and Bradley led in prayer
after which Buck Currie took charge of the meeting.

“Outstanding Sins” was the subject of his address. “Besides the unpardonable sin, blasphemy of the Holy Ghost,” said the speaker,
“there are four outstanding sins in the life of man. These are envy, love of money, slander, and servility.” Scripture
was quoted in reference to each of these sins.

“Christ’s coming found the world at its lowest ebb, because the priests, who were supposed to be the spiritual leaders
of the people, had defiled their offices, and had dragged down the church from its rightful place.

“It was at this time that the greatest event of the world took place; the Real Priest came into the
world, the Priest who offered the true religion to rich and poor alike. The priests opposed Christ because He was
offering free what they had been accustomed to look to as a trade. When we let competition give way to
selfishness we are in (Continued on Page Eight)

SHAKESPEAREAN PLAY TO BE GIVEN BY DEVEREUX ACTORS
Romeo and Juliet to Be Presented on November 4th

The leading artists of Romeo and Juliet, to be presented by the Clifford Devereux Company, in Shearer Hall November 4th
will be Miss Zinita Graf and Mr. Clifford Devereux. Miss Zinita Graf for the past five years has been the
leading lady with Mr. Devereux and his company. She possesses a wealth of those natural gifts which are essential to
the success of an actress. She is endowed with a winsome personality, a captivating stage appearance, a voice that is
musical, and a beauty of countenance that is rare. In her actions she is brilliant and distinctive; her manner is
scintillating and radiates through the audience.

Mr. Clifford Devereux, who plays the part of Romeo, is an actor par excellence. His voice has proved a great
asset in his theatrical career and the same radiant personality, sympathetic appeal, and dramatic sensitiveness which once found expression in
song, are the qualities which have established his reputation as an actor of distinction and power. During his college days
Mr. Devereux was a star of the football squad. Instead of being the hero of the squad he now plays
the leading role in each drama presented by the repertoire company which bears his name. That smile which characterized him
in those days of sport has lost none of its fascination.

EVANGELISTIC SERVICES LED BY DOCTOR LINGLE

The evangelistic services to be conducted by Dr. Walter Lingle commenced Wednesday night at 7:30 in Shearer Hall. Doctor Lingle
is a graduate of Davidson College and is one of her most distinguished alumni. He is one of the greatest
preachers in the Southern Presbyterian Church, and is at present instructor at the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Virginia. He
is loved by all that know him and it is a certainty that he will leave many new friends at
Davidson.

Mr. Carr, an alumnus of Davidson, is in charge of the singing. He has had much experience in work of
this kind and it is certain that the services along this line will be quite a success.

WILDCATS WILL ATTEMPT TO UPSET DOPE IN STATE GAME
Defeat Administered by Trinity Will Serve to Arouse the Wildcat Fighting Spirit

With the State-Davidson game taking place on this Saturday, fans are beginning to wonder how the Wildcats and Statesmen will
come out. According to Davidson’s usual mode of playing she ought to win, or at least tie the score, for
the Wildcats realize that this is one of the games that calls for the true Davidson type of fight. After
holding the mighty V. P. I. aggregation to a 7-7 tie, then relaxing in the Trinity game, the felines will
be in the best of spirits to go and get ’em when they meet State.

From ’way back yonder, the Wildcats have been recognized dope-upsetters. Many a prophecy has failed to come true as to
the outcome of games in which Davidson has been engaged. With the public prepared to hear of a defeat of
about 70 to 0 on Grant Field, they came back with a virtual victory; when it was considered easy money
to spot V. P. I. two touchdowns, the “thin Red line” put a decided sag in the Gobblers’ strut. The
coming battle with the Statesmen will probably be a battle of wits and diplomacy combined with fight, for Davidson, after
holding State to a 3-3 tie last year, will present a smashing offense. In the past big games of the
season, with one exception, Davidson has put the most emphasis on the defense.

According to figures the dope runs as follows: Carolina defeated State by five points; Carolina defeated Trinity by 12 points;
Trinity defeated Davidson by 12 points. This gives Carolina the odds by 23 points. State lost to Carolina by only
five points, giving State the odds over Davidson by 28 points. Figuring another way State has the odds by 54
points. Carolina defeated Wake Forest 62-3, and Wake Forest and Davidson tied. This gives Carolina 59 points. Carolina defeated State
by only five points, giving State 54 points odds.

According to direct scores, in past years, the relation is hard to determine. Since 1899 the victor and vanquished have
been continually changing. The exact weights of the State team could not be gathered, but they are a good bit
heavier than the Red and Black. Following are scores for (Continued on page seven)

EVERETT BISHOP
MR. EVERETT BISHOP WILL GIVE CONCERT ON NOV. 19th
Davidson Alumnus Coming Under Auspices of College Magazine

On next Thursday, November 9th, at 8 p.m., Mr. Everett L. Bishop, bass baritone, will appear in concert under the
auspices of the Davidson College magazine. Mr. Bishop is a native of Savannah, Ga. He graduated at Davidson with the
class of ’12. While here he was leader of the college orchestra and Glee Club and also sang in the
church choir. After leaving college he sang in Savannah. Later he entered medical college and graduated. During the World War
he was a lieutenant in the Medical Corps. Since the close of the war he has devoted himself entirely toMusic
and has studied under some of the foremost teachers of today. At the present time, he is engaged in oratorical
and concert work with New York as his headquarters. Davidson should be considered exceedingly fortunate in being able to hear
an artist of the calibre of Mr. Bishop. Mr. Bishop has been touring the Southern States and has expressed himself
as very desirous of once again seeing the campus. Love for his Alma Mater and the chance for renewing old
friendships was one of the main reasons for Mr. Bishop’s decision to visit the campus. It is understood also that
he is to meet his mother here. Mr. Bishop's visit and concert will be one of the bright spots of
the year and the campus is looking forward with pleasure to his coming.

DAVIDSON FRESH TO ENCOUNTER OAK RIDGE

On Saturday, the Davidson Freshmen play Oak Ridge Institute on Sprunt Field. The Freshmen have been handled pretty severely in
the games they have played, the last especially, but intend to turn in a victory Saturday. The Oak Ridge team
is being coached by John Schenck, one of the best men on Davidson’s last year’s varsity. He has made a
scrappy aggregation out of the “Ridgers” and, although they have had hard luck in playing some of the leading high
schools in the State, they are determined to give the Freshmen the battle of their lives.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE NOW BEING ARRANGED

The preliminaries for the annual Junior-Senior debate will be held within the next few days in the various literary societies.
As soon as possible, each society will select a team to represent it in the semi-finals which will be held
on November 20. At that time, the Philanthropic team will meet the Eumanean while the Pandeinics will match wits against
the Metrophilians. The teams that win the decisions in these contests will meet on the 27th of November for the
final debate. The subject for discussion this year is, Resolved, That the U.S. Government should adopt the principle of the
Kansas Industrial Court Law in the regulation of relations between capital and labor.

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS MEET AS GUESTS OF CAPITOL CITY

Meredith Is Host to Leading Collegiate Literary Lights of North Carolina

R. R. Jones and L. D. Elkins were the delegates representing Davidson at the Fifth Semi-Annual convention of the North
Carolina Collegiate Press Association last week in Raleigh. The convention was entertained by Meredith College and was presided over by
Miss Alice Lowe of that institution, president of the Association. The convention this term was, in every respect, the most
successful and beneficial that has been held since the organization of the association. The most progressive step taken by the
embryonic writers was that of publishing an anthology of North Carolina Collegiate short stories for the year '22-'23, a suitable
prize to be awarded the best of the accepted stories. In view of the fact that there has been an
unusual amount of discussion concerning the lack of writing in the State of North Carolina, the delegates regard this action
as a timely and beneficial one.

In attendance at the convention were delegates representing the publications of Meredith College, North Carolina College for Women, Greensboro College
for Women, University of North Carolina, North Carolina State College, Queens College, Guilford College, Elon College, Lenoir College, Trinity College,
Wake Forest College, Salem College, and Davidson College. The order of events was as follows:

THURSDAY, 8:30 P.M.
Convention—College Chapel.
Invocation—Dr. T. W. O’Kelley.
Welcome—President C. E. Brewer.
Response—John R. Knott.
Address—Hon. Roland F. Beasley, Editor Goldsboro News.
9:30 P.M.
Informal reception, guests of student council, college parlors.

FRIDAY
Meeting of executive committee.
Address—“Headwriting,” R. Pickens (Tar Heel).
Address—“Good English in College Journalism,” Dr. Julia H. Harris (Dept. of English, Meredith).
Address—“Strengthening College Relations,” Francis Bradshaw, (Dean U.N.C.)
Visit to Times Building.
Address—“Business Managership,” L. J. Brody (Tar Heel).
Address—“The Short Story in the College Magazine,” Dr. Charles P. Weaver (Dept. of Eng., Wake Forest College).
Banquet—Guests of the Twig and the Acorn, college dining hall.

SATURDAY
Delegates reports.
Report of committees.
Business.
Adjournment.

Queens College was selected as the place of meeting for next spring. The officers of the Association are:
Alice Lowe (Meredith), president.
Lois Rogers (Queens), first vice-president.
R. S. Pickens (Carolina), second vice-president.
Fannie Paul (Meredith), secretary.
L. D. Elkins (Davidson), treasurer.

WILDCATS ARE NEVER “LICKED”

DAVIDSONIANS BOW BEFORE TRINITY'S BATTERING RAM

Usual Fighting Spirit of the Wildcats Is Sadly Lacking

By BILL MAUZE

“Wait until we get you in Charlotte.” Such were the parting words of Davidson and Trinity teams in Greensboro last
Saturday night. The Methodists came and went with every bit of the bacon, not even leaving the grease behind for
the Wildcats to enjoy. The game was the first between the two institutions on the gridiron, and marks the highest
point that the Blue and White of Trinity has ever reached. The lads from Durham had a smooth running team
that clearly outplayed the Wildcats. The big surprise of the day was the easy manner in which Trinity gained through
the Davidson line. Their offense was directed almost entirely against the line, and they seemed able to reel off five
yards most any time. The Wildcats were playing far below the standard set by them in the V.P.I. game. The
old-time spirit and fight was lacking—sadly lacking. Their playing may best be described by the word “listless.” No one who
saw them fight V.P.I. and Georgia Tech to a standstill doubts their superiority over Trinity, but they failed to show
it at Cone Park.

The setting for the game was ideal. The day was balmy but not hot, the sky was clear as a
mountain stream, and the field was firm as a brick. The Trinity student body was on hand full force with
their band. But the best cheering of all came from the G.C.W. girls who supported Trinity. A crowd of 4,000
witnessed the game. The Methodists had the best of the argument in the first quarter and by consistent line plunging
they carried the pigskin to the five-yard line before the quarter ended. On the third play of the second quarter,
they carried the ball over. The remainder of the quarter was featured by Brice’s work in blocking a punt and
recovering it only to fumble the pigskin on Trinity's 20-yard line. In the third quarter, the Wildcats came nearest scoring.
Line plays and a long gain on a pass to Faison put the ball on the one-yard line with third
down as the quarter ended. But Trinity held firm after a brief rest, punted out of danger, intercepted a pass,
and scored their second touchdown with but 30 seconds left. Hendrix took the next kick-off and made (Continued on Page
five)
