THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

Arithmetic

He was teaching her arithmetic,
He said it was his mission;
He kissed her once, he kissed her twice
And said, “Now that’s addition!”
He kissed her and she kissed him
Without an exclamation.
Then he told her with a grin,
“That was multiplication!”
So after adding smack on smacks
Till they were near distraction
She took just one kiss back and said,
“That’s what you call subtraction!”
Then pa appeared upon the scene
And shouted in derision
And kicked poor Bill three blocks away
And said, “That is long division!”

THE REMINGTON PORTABLE TYPEWRITER
YOU NEED ONE
W. J. Cooper
WATTS
College Representative

START RIGHT and FEED
L. A. ELLIOTT’S
DAVIDSON, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Lightning Bug

The lightning bug is brilliant
But he hasn’t much of a mind
He goes out in the darkness
With his headlight on behind.

An Hour of Trial

His arm was ’round my shoulders laid,
He pressed my head against his breast,
I sighed, but not a word was said,
I felt his heart beat through his vest.
His fingers warm upon my cheek
Still toward his eyes compelled my face,
I only felt—I could not speak
Fast fettered in that close embrace.
Pained, racked, so tired I fain would flee
His voice my futile efforts stilled,
“Oh, just a little patience, see!”
I rise, I smile, my front tooth’s filled!

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
‘Mack’ Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and a no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Mack—So lovely and so proud—but “pride,” you know “Goeth——.’” This shall my stricken heart console; For oh, proud maiden, you'd not be so proud, If you knew that your stocking had a hole!

Bill—That so, didn’t know a feller was supposed to laugh unless there was something to laugh at, and yet come to think of it you are a laughable proposition yourself, so reckon I'll laugh, here—

Mack—Can yer comedy, oldtimer, and consider this: Senior speaking is just about a month off.

Bill—What of it, the world’s not coming to an end then is it?

Mack—No, but Mary Belle is liable to come down.

Bill—There you go again, you’re the sardines’ whiskers when it comes to the ladies aren’t you? Sure you are—but don’t figure on borrowing any of my stuff, I give you fair warning, lay off on pain—

Mack—Have a heart Bill, except your shirts. My stock is low and I haven’t seen any lately, that suit my fancy.

Bill—That being the case you must have kept away from Charlotte lately for Ed Mellon has the niftiest line I have seen lately. Saw it when I was down there Monday.

Mack—Rave on.

Bill—They’ve a line of English broadcloths in white and tan from one of the smartest of the New York importers that is an eye-opener. Looks like silk and yet it wears almost as well as oxford. There’s a secret that the English weavers have that the Americans can’t quite fathom.

Mack—Sounds interesting, will have to look ’em up. How did their ties look?

Bill—Fifth Avenue says silks and they have them. Honest they are the best I’ve seen lately. Especially the Italian grenadines, a special importation. On the q. t.

Mack—New York has given the boot to knits and I reckon that we'll have to accept her verdict.

Mack—Yea indeed, thou spakest a parable.—(adv.)

(To be continued)

Things We Are Tired of

Newspaper pictures of horrible looking women captioned “Russian Beauties.”
Reading of the Hall-Mills murder case.
The muddy paths on the campus.
People who say “It’s a great life to be in college.”
Roommate’s two-hour recital of things he is going to do and the fun he is going to have Thanksgiving.
Hard seats in chapel.
The heating system.

Eight O’Clock

It’s great to wake upon a morn
While birds and crickets sweetly sing
And when a bell begins to peal
Just yawn, “It’s Sunday, let her ring!”

Heard at the Commissary last Wednesday:
Bill McClain—"I'd like to see something cheap in a fall hat.”
“Iky” Morris—"Try this one on. The mirror is at your left.”

Fresh Clater wants to know “How can that Math professor give me a flunk notice. How does he know I don’t know the course—I haven't handed in any work.”

Paul Price—"Norton, haven’t you some kind of Hair Renewer for my moustache?”
Norton, the barber—"Faith, Sir, I think it’s Hair Originator you want.”

Some men are born insane.
Some men achieve insanity,
Some men room with an amateur saxophone player.

Burney—"Gibson, what’s wrong with your eyes?”
Gibson—"I've been reading ‘The Light That Failed.’”

A real modest girl is one that will not look at a battleship when it is stripped for action.

Prof.—"Mr. Currie, what would you do for a man who had taken arsenic?”
Neal Currie—"Bury him.”

Prof.—"Mr. Boushee, your recitation reminds me of Quebec.”
Boushee—"Why, Doctor?”
Prof.—"Because it’s founded on a rock.”tall bluff.” There is only one excuse and alibi at Davidson College that is valid and that is—"Now gentlemen, the Board of Trustees will not approve of this, etc.” In Soph English the other day, the class was discussing the “Induction.”

Prof.—"Mr. Wharton, who was the first person inside of Hades?”
Benton Wharton—"I don't know, Doctor, I have never been there.”

All students wishing to improve their spelling may do so by taking English 4. An absolute guarantee to teach you goes with the course.

Fresh Finn—"What will we do?”
Monk Deaver—"I’ll spin a coin. If it’s heads we go to Charlotte. If it’s tails we go to the movie, and if it stands on edge, we'll study.”

“Mr. McLeod, is the world flat or round?”
“Neither.”
“What is it then?”
“Crooked.”

Water—Its Use

Few of us have ever stopped to seriously consider the uses and advantages of water, while some of us, in fact, scorn it entirely. Among the latter classification are those who are afraid of drowning and those who, being warned by its decaying effect on shoes, steadfastly refuse either external or internal applications. In order that we may not despise it without well-founded reasons, an ardent alumnus has compiled the following data upon water:

According to Webster, water is a fluid which descends from the clouds in rain and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc., but we may safely assume that Mr. Webster would never term the Rhine as being composed of water. His definition is entirely inadequate, inasmuch as he neglects to cite its value, so we intend to list its principal usages.

Beyond a doubt, its main use at Davidson is in water on the knee, in which it is an absolute requisite. Water is also used to some extent in washing but not at this college because you can't get water where there ain't any well. Certain races such as tramps and anarchists are as yet unaware of this valuable advantage. It is also used with great success by those who go to Niagara Falls. Commercially, water is of great value to bridge and lighthouse manufacturers, life guards, and gondoliers. Statistics show us that if Lake Superior could be piped to Fades it might easily be retailed at 10 cents per glass, without war tax. Further information on the subject will be given to interested persons on applying at the Headquarters of Water Commission at the Pump House below the Laundry.

Along about this time, we begin selecting girls for Senior speaking. The Peanut Parcher begs to add a little bit of advice. The cardinal principle in selecting the right girl is “pick one all the other fellows will like but not love.”

CAMPUS FOOTBALL IS FAVORITE RECREATION

Dashing end runs, forward passes that are uncanny and spectacular 70-yard runs for touchdowns are being pulled off right here in the heart of Davidson, on the campus, nearly every day and yet there are not so many pigskin fans who see these. Fellows gladly pay big prices to see football games but yet right here on the campus football games are played that are guaranteed to furnish more thrills and make more creepy feelings run up and down one’s spine, per square minute than a Harvard-Centre game.

And so campus football seems to have come into its own again this year at Davidson, after a relapse for the past few years from the vaunted popularity that it enjoyed in the years previous, and it is holding full sway every afternoon on the ideal field that the campus furnishes. Big-muscled young Titans are seen stalking out to take their places on the opposing teams and once the game is on it immediately becomes a knock-down step-on affair and arms and legs are seen to fly freely in all directions. The casualties are beyond belief and many a crippled fellow hobbling about on crutches with his leg in a cast and arm in a sling can testify to the horrors and death-dealing atrocities that are committed in campus football. The rivalry between the giant-like stellar performers on opposite sides is intense and when one of the more aggressive of these enters the fray thirsting for bloody victory and, by a streak of luck, emerges wearing the crown of victory, an ovation is given him that the one Bo McMillan received in his own home town after romping on Harvard, hardly rivals.

Virginia seems to have the biggest collection of stellar teams this year. With W. & L. and V. P. I. on the offensive list and V. M. I. among the defensive teams, and a strong team at the University, the other States will have to look hard to find four such elevens. W. & L. and V. M. I. are still undefeated, but even at that it is not so sure that they are the best of the bunch.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Announcement

We wish to announce that MR. W. J. COOPER of the Davidsonian Staff is now our representative on “The Hill.” You may be assured that any orders placed with him will receive our most careful attention.

Printing Company, CHARLOTTE, N.C.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
14-16 East Fourth Street
College Annuals
Magazines
Catalogues
Social Stationery
(3-Day Service on Wedding Invitations)

Chosen by men who are particular about style and careful about quality
The Florsheim Shoe
H. C. LONG COMPANY
33 East Trade Street
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY