THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1922.

ALUMNI NEWS

REV. W. F. HOLLINGSWORTH NEW MITCHELL PRESIDENT
Graduate of 1890 to Have Charge of College at Statesville.

Davidson has been given the honor of having one of her alumni elected president of Mitchell College. At a recent
meeting of the board of trustees, Rev. W. F. Hollingsworth, ’90, of Kenansville, N. C., was elected to succeed President
J. M. Moore, who is also a Davidson alumnus of the class of ’91, and who has been at the
head of the institution for some time.

Rev. Mr. Hollingsworth was distinguished while at Davidson for thoroughness in all his work. He was also excellent as a
writer, winning the essayist medal in the literary society. He has

Ben F. Hagood, ex-1917, is connected with the Glenwood Cotton Mills, of Easley, S. C. He is anxious to know
the titles of the English books used in the Sophomore course under Dr. Fulton in 1914-1915.

Friends of J. E. Cassell, 1921, will sympathize with him in the recent death of his father. Eris is an
instructor of English at the McCallie School, of Chattanooga, Tenn. His brother F. M. Cassell, ex-1923, has also accepted a
position in that school as track coach.

The father of Rev. S. H. Hay, 1906, of Morristown, Tenn., of Rev. J. P. Hay, 1910, of Brevard, N.
C., and of Rev. F. J. Hay, Jr., 1914, of Kings Mountain, N. C., died recently. His death occurred at
Morristown, Tenn., at the home of his son, Rev. S. H. Hay. Mr. Hay was the brother-in-law of Dr. C.
M. Richards.

Nothing will put a man in tune with the universe and keep him in perfect harmony with his work like
getting on the job early in the morning and taking advantage of the full day that nature provides out of
every twenty-four hours. Work is a natural habit of man—the best one he can have in business—and when he acquires
that habit and makes it a part of himself everything else seems to work out to his liking. There may
be variations in the net results of the days, but the sum total of the months and years will work
out right by any mathematical equation.—Selected.

SUNDAY SCHOOL LESSON
2 Kings 6:8-23.
ELISHA’S HEAVENLY DEFENDERS

UNDABESTOS
The Practical Covering for Underground Steam Lines
Used by many prominent Southern Colleges
General Equipment Company
Realty Bldg.
Charlotte, N.C.

The subject of our lesson might be more practically called “The Uses of the Man of God in Our Society.”
The politics of Israel had been rotten; and while Jehoram was, personally, some improvement

MARRIAGES.

Invitations have been issued to the marriage of Miss May Ligon and Lawrence Orr Hammett, ex-1922. The invitations were issued
by Mr. and Mrs. Robert Emmett Ligon, the wedding to take place Tuesday evening, February 21, at 8 o'clock in
St. John’s Methodist Church, of Anderson, S. C. Hammett is known to most of the students as the right tackle
and captain of the 1920 football team.

Mr. and Mrs. P. H. McArthur, of Red Springs, N. C., announce the engagement of their daughter, Emily Mac, to
Carl Homer Cathey, ex-1920, of Davin, N. C. The wedding will take place in the early spring. The bride-elect is
one of Red Springs’ most prominent and attractive young women. Mr. Cathey has charge of a high school in Robeson
county.

BIRTHS.

Davidson as a Y. M. C. A. delegate, going to Northfield as a representative of Davidson in the summer of
1889. He received the degree of bachelor of arts at Davidson in 1890. He came here from Atlanta, Ga., and
went from here to Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., for one year and then to Columbia Theological Seminary for two years.
After graduating from the seminary he served a church in South Carolina for a few years and then went to
Scotland for a lecture course at Free Church College, Edinburgh. After visiting on the continent and touring the holy lands,
he returned to this country and became pastor of a church at Brunswick, Ga., and served there six years. Next
he served as pastor at Morganton, N. C., for six years, then took the presidency of the Glade Valley school,
which he held for four years, before taking up further educational work at Kenansville, N. C.

Mr. Hollingsworth married Miss Casticks, of Goldsboro, N. C., who has a most charming personality. He has two boys, both
in McCallie school now. The older of the two will enter Davidson next year. Mr. Hollingsworth has announced acceptance of
the presidency and is expected to take charge of the work about the 1st of June.

HERE AND THERE.

Gordon P. Scott, 1919, is connected with the Statesville Furniture Co., of Statesville, N. C.

Rev. H. R. Overcash, 1893, is doing pulpit supply work at Leesburg, Fla.

Rev. Tom P. Johnson, 1910, of Salisbury, N. C., is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Christiansburg, Va.

Rev. J. Harper Brady, 1912, has removed from Susaki to 602 Eikokuji, Cho., Kochi, Japan.

W. S. Overton, Jr., 1918, is working with the Duke Engineering Co., of Salisbury, N. C.

Rev. D. C. Young, 1915, is pastor of the Rosemark Presbyterian Church, Kerrville, Tenn.

The sad news was received last week of the death, nearly a month ago, of the mother of W. Stuart
Buchanan, 1923. The death occurred in China where his parents were missionaries. The sympathy of the entire student body goes
out to this splendid young man in his bereavement.

News was also received of the death of the father of Paul Price, 1924, of Roanoke, Virginia. His many friends
realize keenly the sorrow which he is undergoing and hope that he will be able to continue his course at
Davidson.

John Allan Thames, 1918, is the secretary of Congressman Lyon, of South Carolina. He is also attending the Georgetown University
School of Law. In a recent debate between the Seniors and the two lower classes, the Seniors won the decision
and Thames won the individual prize for the best debate.

Helen Shumaker, of Mooresville, were2

Frank Brady, ex-1917, is now living at 1612 La Brouche, Houston, Texas. His friends are congratulating him and Mrs. Brady
on the birth of a daughter on December 19, 1921. John A. Scott, Jr., 1911, has been fortunate in the
arrival of a baby at his home. Mr. Scott has represented his district in the state legislature and is now
a prominent businessman of Statesville, N. C.

STATE Y. M. C. A. MEETING
(Continued from page 1)
Chalmers, J. Sprunt, R. F. Davidson, H. V. Russell, and Hugh Smith, report that the utmost hospitality was shown them
while in Greensboro. Dwight had the fortune of going up Monday, having to attend the paid-workers conference.

PROFESSOR CURRIE SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)
It, imploring its aid. But alas, he had busied himself too greatly with temporal things. His thoughts of God came
too late. Although this was a primeval man, ever since then men have been lulled by a false sense of
security. There comes a time in every life when food, comfort, and wealth do not satisfy the desires of the
heart. When the inevitable comes in old age, the average person tries to cultivate the spirit with the small residue
of life left, just as this hunter provided for calamity only at the last moment. The speaker then forcefully brought
home to each man present the lesson that each one has at least two-thirds of his life ahead of him.
It behooves us to early center our attention on more important things than temporary happiness, and thereby be prepared for
the impending calamity when it arrives. “Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness.” God’s most precious gift
to man is life itself. How will yours be used?

Miss Daniels, of Charlotte, and Miss the week-end guests of their aunts, the Misses Shumaker.

The first use of the man of God is to give eyes to our political life. But for the keen
vision of Elisha, Jehoram would have fallen into the traps which the Syrian king set for him. The true man
of God is useful as giving his society wisdom. Sin blinds and corruption gives a false sense of security. Society
has always needed clear-headed thinking, and the true man of God is equipped, as no one else is, for this
function.

The second use is to warn against the danger his vision discloses. If the first may be said to be
the cognitive, this second is conative. The man of God must not rest with getting a vision; his vision gives
in active soteriological service.

We need a man of God to pray for us that our eyes may be holden to spiritual forces all
about us. “And Elisha prayed, and said, I pray thee, Lord, open his eyes, that he may see. And the
Lord opened the eyes of the young man; and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire
round about Elisha.”

The second division of our lesson has to do with the “sore trouble” of the king of Syria. He could
not understand why his schemes had failed, and he did not understand why. Does it not remind one of the
failure of Von Kluck to enter Paris? Germany never knew, Von Kluck could never explain why his apparently irresistible army
was halted at the gates of the French capital. As for the king of Syria, he became suspicious that his
camp harbored either a spy or a traitor. But somebody in his confidence seemed to have done a little thinking.
The explanation offered was that in Israel there was a man of God. You remember Kitchener’s remark when told that
the English line had held against the superior force of Germany: “Somebody has been praying.”

And the last section of our lesson seems designed to call our attention to the folly of attempting to compass
the forces of righteousness by material force. The king of Syria had stupidly concluded that his schemes had been thwarted
by some spy; and having his mind set right here, he goes on to make another blunder. Having the cause
of his “sore trouble” made known to him, he sets out to remove it. The folly to suppose that spiritual
causes are countered by material ones. It is one of the hardest lessons men ever have to learn that they
can legislate morals into a people.

“Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host; and they came by night, and compassed the city
about.”

Miss Nancy Grey was at home from Winthrop College last week-end, accompanied by two classmates, Miss Margaret Selzer and Miss
Edna Jordan.

Dr. H. S. Monroe, ’99, of Columbus, Ga., is spending a few days with his mother. Dr. Monroe is a
trustee of Davidson and remained for the meeting of the trustees on the 22d.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

WRIGLEY’S
Peppermint flavor, Sugar jacket, aids digestion, cleans teeth, and soothes mouth.

SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS, CANDIES, PICKLES, SANDWICHES
“an’ everything”

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.
Established 1873

A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
W. S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHOES AND FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this line
Army Shoes, Dress Shoes, and Tennis Shoes
We also have a good line of FURNISHINGS
Knox & Barnette
