THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1922. ATHLETIC NEWS Court Gossip By A. Goopher Duster.

Check up one big win for the Poison Squad. Also one heavy loss. That Guilford defeat knocked our championship dreams
popeyed. Our Championship Special struck an open switch just when pilot “Dutch” had ordered “Full Speed Ahead.” Our band sent
over a barrage of heavy jazz but it failed to smother the Quakers’ offense. After the game, “I’d Love to
Fall to Sleep and Wake Up in My Mammy’s Arms” would have been very appropriate.

Fifteen for our Fighting Wildkittens! Quite a few of the “restless six” have been attending the games and seem to
be unanimous in their verdict that Cap Pat is the “cutest thing” they have ever seen. Pat is constructed as
heavily as a boxcar with a pair of shoulders that would make Jack Dempsey look like a living skeleton. And
yet the Sweet Young Things whisper, “Ain't he cute!”

Just a reminder: We play Carolina in Charlotte soon, maybe. Why can’t we pull an a la Winston stunt, only
more so? Do you remember when Carolina came to Winston last fall when they knew they had a deadlock on
the Red and Black? So do we.

Warhoss missed a couple of shots Saturday night that would have brought tears to an undertaker’s eyes. But in spite
of that Mauze is still doing the man o’ war act for Dutch’s Demons. Wonder how he spends his time
when he is not hanging up field goals?

The scrappiest five that ever wore the “D” of Davidson ties up with Wake Forest here next Monday. Remember that
football game in Charlotte last fall and turn out en masse and whoop things up a bit. ’Nuf ’ced!

Gang, it’s no secret that A. Goopher has a weak spot in the region of his pocketbook. Here's one bird
of whom it has never been said, “His bankroll looks like a piano leg.” “Allee samee” we believe that our
scrappy, hard-working Poison Squad would appreciate some recognition for their labors. Fellows, a two-bit charge for the Wake Forest game
will buy sweaters for them. Let’s shell out a quarter apiece for the best basketball team Davidson has ever had.

The Schedule.
Jan. 14—Charlotte “Y” 22, Davidson 44, at home.
Feb. 1—Wofford 21, Davidson 30, at home.
Feb. 4—N. C. State 22, Davidson 23, at home.
Feb. 7—Trinity 22, Davidson 18, at Durham.
Feb. 8—N. C. State 21, Davidson 25, at Raleigh.
Feb. 9—Wake Forest 27, Davidson 20, at Wake Forest.
Feb. 10—Elon 34, Davidson 30, at Elon.
Feb. 13—Trinity 27, Davidson 32, at Charlotte.
Feb. 15—Elon 27, Davidson 53, at home.
Feb. 18—Guilford 45, Davidson 26, at home.

Totals: Opponents, 268, Davidson 309. Won 7, Lost 3.

Remaining Games.
Feb. 21—Clemson at Clemson.
Feb. 22—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Feb. 27—Wake Forest, at home.
Mar. 1—Carolina at Charlotte (pending)

D. D. SOCIETY DEBATE QUERIES.
For February 23, 1922: “Resolved, That the United States should adopt a policy of prohibiting immigration for a period of
two years.”
For March 2, 1922: “Resolved, That the United States should maintain a navy equal to the largest in the world.”

MARCH 1ST TO WITNESS THE OPENING OF BALL TOSSING
Baseball practice will begin about March 1, or as soon after as the weather will permit. So says the “Big
Chief,” Coach Hengeveld. With but three of last year’s letter men back, competition bids fair to be strong among contestants
for the vacant places. An excellent schedule is being arranged by Manager McGeachy, but is as yet incomplete. With “Southpaw”
Sorrells, McPherson, Alexander and Wright as applicants for a place on the pitching staff, there is much promise of success.
Coach Dutch asserts that there is no need to worry about catchers, for McMillan is known in athletic circles as
one of the best in the state; also, last year’s All-State high school catcher, Hendrix, will be out. Only one
of last year’s infield men is here this year—Pat Crawford. According to old Taurus, George Neel, Malcolm Urwin, Mac Richards
and Pleasants will lead other contestants for infield positions a merry chase. Archie Freeman, captain of this year’s nine, will
be back at his old stand in left field, with his running mate, Grady Brown, in right field, leaving the
position of center field vacant. Dick Richards and Luke Erwin will no doubt make other aspirants for this position work
hard. The schedule for the coming season has not been thoroughly fixed as yet, but games have already been arranged
as follows:

March 24-25—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 30—Catawba College at Davidson.
April 1—Trinity at Winston-Salem.
April 8—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 11—U. N. C. at Chapel Hill.
April 12—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 13—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 14—Elon at Elon.
April 21—Furman at Davidson.
April 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.
April 26—Furman at Greenville.
April 27—Clemson at Clemson.
April 28—N. C. State at Charlotte.
May 3—U. N. C. at Davidson.

A total of 18 games will make up this season’s complete schedule, thus leaving four games yet to be arranged
for.

WILDCATS WIN AND LOSE IN TWO LOCAL COURT BATTLES
(Continued from page 1)

Mauze. Foul goals: L. Perry 9 out of 13; Mauze 1 out of 6. Referee: George (Va.).

Guilford Game.
In the most surprising and gripping game of the season the unheralded Guilford quintet defeated the Davidson Wildcats last Saturday
night by a score of 45-26. Unfortunately for Davidson the visitors were playing in excellent form while the home team
was sadly off color. However, not once did the team give up hope; not once did they quit scrapping—it was
the same old “never say die” spirit that has always characterized Davidson’s teams. Before the Wildcats knew what was happening
Guilford had rung up a lead of about 8 points. With a rush activities began and this lead was almost
overcome, but apparently in vain; it was lost just before the whistle blew for the end of the first half,
the score being 25-14. Vowing victory the Wildcats returned for the last frame to demolish the Guilfordites. Fighting with every
ounce of reserve strength in their power, it looked for a time as if victory indeed would crown their efforts,
but fate had decreed otherwise and even a scrapping basketball quintet cannot gainsay her decision. The game ended with victory
in the hands of the visitors 45-26.

Summary:
Davidson. Position. Guilford.
Ormond (10) ---- F ---- Lindley (10)
Beall (0) ------- F ---- Frazier (12)
Mauze (12) ---- C ---- Newlin (10)
Crawford (4) ------ G ---- Frazier, J.G. (13)
Price (0) ------- G ---- Mackie (0)

Substitutions—Davidson: Mallory for Beall, Davis for Price. Guilford: Farrell for Lindley. Foul goals: Frazier 3 out of 6, Mauze 2
out of 9. Referee: Murrill (Army).

SPRINGTIME.
This grand Spring weather makes one feel like casting off old winter’s togs and donning those of gayer hue. One
feels like budding out as the flowers and trees. Then, too, it is only a few more days until Junior
Week. We must have a new Spring suit for that. Now is the time, men, and Mellon’s is the place.
They have anything you are looking for. There you will find the largest assortment of men’s clothing to be found
anywhere in the Carolinas. But go early. Get there before the stock has been picked over. If you go this
week you will have practically the entire Spring line to choose your suit from. You know that you want one
and you want it for Junior week. Now here is the plan. When you go over to Charlotte for Sousa’s
Band Concert, take advantage of the trip. Kill two birds with one shot; drop in Mellon’s and select that suit
then. This will give the store ample time for any alterations necessary. Thus you will be sure of getting your
suit for Junior week. Remember, the early bird catches the worm.—Adv.

RED AND BLACK FIVE MAKES INVASION OF S. CAROLINA
Tuesday morning the Wildcat basketball squad left for an invasion of South Carolina. Only two games were to be played
on the trip as a third game, with Greenville Y. M. C. A., fell through at the last minute. Clemson
was the first to be encountered, the battle at Clemson on the afternoon of the 21st, while the schedule provided
for Wofford to be met for the second time, on the 22nd, at Spartanburg. Clemson does not have the team
they had last year when they captured the South Carolina State championship, but they can always be counted on for
a good scrap. They got off with a bad start, but have managed to...Turn the tables in the last several
games and are now hitting a stride which is characteristic of the Tigers. The Wofford five during the last two
weeks has been constantly improving their game under the superb coaching of “Ring” Major. Their team is built around R.
F. Lindsay, who is a tower of strength on the offensive. However, the Wildcats have already tasted the blood of
Wofford once this season and the dope was that they would duplicate the performance Wednesday night. The following men made
the trip: G. W. Mauze, C. R. Crawford, J. P. Price, M. S. Beall, D. F. Mallory, A. C. Ormond,
and R. E. Boggs. The prospects are bright for a game with Carolina in the near future. This game, although
not definitely decided, will probably be played in Charlotte on the night of February 28. Final arrangements cannot be perfected
until the Carolina quintet returns from the Atlanta tournament. When this game is played it will give everyone the opportunity
of viewing one of the greatest inter-collegiate matches of the year.

BRAZIL IS SUBJECT OF VOLUNTEERS’ DISCUSSION

A short business meeting with discussion of the State Volunteer Conference at Greensboro early in March and definite plans for
a feed on the 25th occupied the first part of the Volunteers’ program last Sunday. The subject for study was:
Brazil in its relation to our Church work there. Harry Price gave a brief survey of the population, history, and
geography of this country. He emphasized the poverty and illiteracy of the great mass of the people, both of which
have tended toward lowered morals. Indeed, it seems that a large number of the people have practically no morals at
all. Just so urgently is the Christian religion needed, for along with it come the blessings of higher morals, education,
and a release from the chains of the poor man which have so long bound him to a slave’s life.
Guy Weeks spoke next, touching on the missionary work among these peoples. He brought out the fact that the first
Protestant workers in this field were Huguenots sent over by a French king to prevent their persecution. A Scotch physician
followed them and from these two races was laid the foundation for all the Brazil work. Pulpit and press are
used side by side to spread the Gospel among the natives and with this land as open as it is
to the Gospel, the work proves his ability as a public speaker.

EUMENEANS DISCUSS FRANCE AND THE VERSAILLES PACT

A very interesting program was carried out in the Eumenean Literary Society Thursday evening. The third term officers having just
been installed, it was the first meeting under the new regime. The debate, “Resolved, That France was justified in holding
the Germans to the treaty of Versailles,” was ably upheld on the affirmative by T. H. Patterson, John Smith, and
W. T. Jones. The negative side of the question was defended by Elliott, Biddle, and Purdy. Biddle waxed quite oratorical
in the course of his speech, bringing the hearers time and time again to laughter mingled with tears. The judges
decided in favor of the negative but there were many who believed that in spite of Biddle’s “golden egg speech”
the affirmative had the best “line.” Following the debate and the very entertaining and witty criticism of the reviewer, a
masterful declamation was delivered by Sharpe. This was followed by an oration on “Memories” by H. M. Morris.

PANDEINICS CHOOSE MEN TO SPEAK AT THEIR GRADUATION

The principal features of the Pandeinic meeting of February 16 were the election of certain officers and two extemporaneous orations.
J. C. Bailey was elected valedictorian of the society, and G. B. Sorrells respondent, while C. A. Young was elected
sergeant-at-arms. The two extemporaneous orations were delivered by J. H. Grey and G. B. Sorrells. Grey, speaking on the subject
of “The Home Town,” and Sorrells, on “Five Great Philosophies of Life,” completely captured the audiences by their orations. An
inclusive paper on Current Events was presented by D. R. LaFar, and J. R. Maxwell made his debut by an
excellent declamation. Only two of the debaters, G. B. Roberts and H. B. Price, were present, but being on opposite
sides, they discussed the question, “Resolved, That France has taken the right attitude towards Germany since the war.” After the
adopting of another article of the constitution, the meeting was adjourned.

CLARK IS NEW PRESIDENT OF PHI SOCIETY

Last Thursday night the Phi Society suspended its regular program and held an election. J. F. Clark was elected president.
Fitzhugh has been a faithful and devoted member of the society for four years. During this time he has missed
only one regular meeting. The others elected were: Russell, H. K., vice-president; McGeachy, D. P., first critic; Johnston, F. S.,
second critic; Brown, R. H., secretary; Fleming, R. H., first supervisor; Houck, Glenn, second supervisor. Harold McKeithen obtained the majority
of votes as valedictorian on the first ballot. Harold has represented the college on an inter-collegiate debate, which proves his
ability as a public speaker. Joe Baldwin won over his rival in the race for respondent.

BOOKLOVERS HEAR DOCTORS ARBUCKLE AND SHEWMAKE

The Booklovers’ Club is greatly indebted to Profs. H. B. Arbuckle and E. F. Shewmake for delightful lectures recently given.
Dr. Arbuckle made interesting experiments and talked of the value of chemistry to the world as shown in the war
and in health betterment, while Dr. Shewmake spoke on Dante’s life and writings.

R. O. T. C. RIFLE TEAM IS SHOOTING THE BULL’S EYE

The rifle team of the R. O. T. C. shot again last Saturday morning. Each man had ten shots from
a sitting position. Although Davidson has been eliminated from the inter-collegiate contest, the team is continuing to shoot and is
striving to improve themselves. The scores made last Saturday are to be sent to the Fourth Corps Headquarters. Following is
a list of the men on the rifle team and their scores from the last shoot:
McRainey - 89 out of 100
Ramsey - 87 out of 100
C. A. Young - 86 out of 100
McIlwaine - 86 out of 100
Cochran - 84 out of 100
Gudger - 84 out of 100
Knight - 82 out of 100
Long - 80 out of 100
Braser - 78 out of 100
M. Roberts - 75 out of 100

BUCK CURRIE TALKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND

The Ministerial Band met last Sunday with a good percentage present. At this time the band adopted the system of
voluntary pledging as its financial basis. In the absence of Dr. Sweets, of Louisville, who could not attend as prearranged,
A. L. Currie, of the class of ’21, made a very interesting talk. Though made on short notice, Buck’s talk
was well arranged and was delivered forcefully. Before going into the main part of his talk, he said that no
Davidson man should ever be caught without something upon which he could make a speech. He should at least be
able to speak upon “Davidson Spirit,” “Davidson’s Greatest Alumnus, Woodrow Wilson,” and upon present conditions on the campus. Currie chose
a phase of this last subject for his speech, talking on “Influence.”

MISTAKES

When a plumber makes a mistake he charges twice for it.
When a lawyer makes a mistake he has a chance to try the mistake all over again.
When a carpenter makes a mistake it is just as he expected.
When a doctor makes a mistake he buries it.
When a judge makes a mistake it becomes a law.
When a preacher makes a mistake nobody knows the difference.
But when the editor makes a mistake - GOOD NIGHT! — Ex.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS
Basketball, Tennis, & Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency
for A. G. Spalding & Bros.
RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
AL. Fain, Mgr.
18 E. Trade St.
Phone 902
