4 * THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH................Forum Editor
R. C. AIKEN.................Campus Editor
R. HESTON.................Second Managing Editor
B. OGDEN..................First Managing Editor
R. R. JONES...............Assistant Editor
W. T. EIR.................Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD...........Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY..........Assistant Manager

Assistants
BARRINGTON, M. C.
CLAUDE SMITH, C. F.
MINTER, J. A.
APPLEBY, J. M.
McINTOSH, RATCHFORD, B. V. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
COOPER..................Business Manager
H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS and W. G. GUILLE
JAMES McCLURE..........Office Assistant
E. J. ROSCH

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCCAIN...........Circulation Manager
S. C. FAIN...............Asst. Circulation Mgr.

Advertising Solicitors
R. B. LILES
E. C. MOOMAW
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
PRICE, H. B.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas.
McILWAINE, C. M.
WALTHALL, D. B.
ALLISON, O. J.
McIVER, D. D.
WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M. P.
MAUZE, G. W.
WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
EWELL, ED.
MOORE, W. H.

Due to the activity of an enterprising person among us, we saw quite a lot of the Queens’ girls on our two trips to Charlotte last week. Having the Juniors and Seniors at our dinner on Friday added to the occasion immensely. The song they sang made a big hit, too. At the game it was unfortunate that their section was not saved in advance, but when all the Queens girls arrived, they certainly made us feel like rooting harder. The fact that they were rooting for us was indeed a compliment. We all hope that the pleasant occasion may be soon repeated!

MANY KINDNESSES TO US

The Charlotte Chamber of Commerce has treated us royally this fall. In addition to the fine banquet that we had given us there on Davidson Day, two meals were served last Friday to the hundred canvassers who went down to help raise the Charlotte campaign quota. The breakfast that we had was the best that could be desired on such an occasion, both in quality and quantity. Every man there was glad he had gone down on the early train and gotten his meal in Charlotte.

Enough cannot be said about the dinner that was given us after we had been out campaigning all morning. All came in tired, and some a little discouraged, but that dinner which was set before us was in itself enough to revive anyone’s spirits. When the guests who were there from Queens, and the splendid songs by Mr. Bishop, are considered, it is easily seen that the hour and a half there was the most pleasant spent by the Davidson canvassers.

UNION SEMINARY VISITORS

Since almost half of the student body at Union Seminary is made up of men from Davidson, and since so many of last year’s class went to Union, there is naturally a kindred feeling between us. Whenever any of the Seminary men are able to be on the Hill, we are more than glad to see them!

When, however, we have some of her men to make talks to our college organizations, it is a distinct pleasure and privilege. Such was the case last Saturday, when four of the most prominent men of the Seminary were with us. The Y. M. C. A. service that these men conducted was one of the best that we have had. Men who have recently graduated from school always have a better understanding of and closer insight into our problems, and so can talk to us in a way that older men cannot. Particularly inspiring too, is the example of these Seminary men; the fact that they are giving their lives to Christ means a great deal toward helping us do what we feel called upon to do. The visit these four men made to Davidson, we know, will be of lasting benefit.

CAMPAIGNING IN CHARLOTTE

Last week, a hundred of the Davidson student body had an experience that was unique to the great majority, if not all, of them. Having been prepared in advance by several talks, so that each felt that he could convince even the most hard-hearted that he should subscribe to the fund being raised to replace Chambers building, these hundred men went down to Charlotte. By lot every pair of men had been given a district in which they were to canvass all the people who worked there. Two hundred dollars was the goal that each team lightly aspired to.

When the campaigning was started at 9 o’clock that morning, after a parade over the principal streets of the city, headed by two mounted police and one band, every one was determined to work unceasingly for the success of our undertaking. Until 1 o’clock the business people of Charlotte were besieged in a most energetic way. But the hoped-for results were very slow in coming. After the hardest morning’s work that most of the canvassers had done in many a day, the totals at dinner showed that we had raised about $1,000. During the evening the amount was increased. While we all hoped for more money, the experience of arguing and working for Davidson gave a clearer insight into her needs and a greater desire to help fill them.

“Well of all the nerve,” she said slapping his face when he kissed her. “Well then,” he pouted, “if that’s the way you feel about it, get off my lap.”—Selected.

He—Please, just one little kiss.
She—No; if I give you one you'll want more.
He—No, I won’t.
She—Then you don’t deserve one.—Bear Cat.

If you fool with a fool be sure you have a fool to fool with—The Owl.

Be it ever so homely, there’s no face like your own.—The X-Ray.

A wise man never blows his knows.—The Flash Light.

Mother's Voice—Are you entertaining “Cy”?
Daughter’s—No, we're just talking.—The Sagebrush.

My girl is so ignorant she thinks that a football coach has four wheels—Ex.

Sixteen men on a full-back’s chest, Yo, Ho—and a bottle of iodine—Ex.

He—Dearest, you must marry me.
She—But have you seen my father?
He—Many times, but I love you in spite of it.—Spectator.

Love and porous plaster, son,
Are very much alike;
It’s simple getting into one,
But getting out—good night—Crimson White.

At last the impossible has been achieved. A Southern team defeated an Eastern team on an Eastern field. To Alabama goes this distinction. Last Saturday they traveled to Philadelphia to meet the University of Pennsylvania and though doped to lose by over 50 points to the conquerors of the Navy, they defeated them, 9 to 7. Some mixup was the result. Tech beat ‘Bama, Bama beat Penn, Penn beat the Navy and the Navy beat Tech. Our hats go off to you, Alabama! We knew that your great fighting spirit would win out and uphold the honor of the Southland.—The Technique.

She—I notice by this article that men grow bald because of intense activity of the brain.
He—Yes and I notice that women don’t grow whiskers because of intense activity of the chin.—Ex.

I used to think I knew I knew,
But now I must confess
The more I know I know I know
I know I know the less.

“There’s the man I’m laying for,” said the hen, as the farmer entered the barn.—The Musketeer.

The other day I went into
A fortune telling place,
A pretty girl, she read my mind
And then she slapped my face.

‘Twas the night before payday, and all through my jeans,
I hunted in vain for the price of some beans.
Not a quarter was stirring, not even a jit;
The kale was off duty, milled edges had quit.
Forward, turn forward, O Time, in thy flight—make it tomorrow just for tonight!

He—Was it you I kissed in the library last night?
She—About what time?—Mugwump.

STUDENTS AID IN DAVIDSON
(Continued from Page 1)

man twice, and by the time things were well started, so expert were all of them in rebutting argument that it took mighty good proof of former subscriptions, etc., or else a man, with a naturally inventive mind to get by without subscribing. Those working in the residence district, however, sometimes bucked up against a cold stare from the lady of the house, or the absence of those momentarily away from the house. In such cases, as was natural, the most orderly retreat possible was executed. In most cases though, those seen were very attentive and

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGOwon a one-sided but interesting game on Sprunt Field Thursday, victimizing the Wofford Terriers, 62 to 0. After the first 10 minutes, there was no doubt as to the outcome of the game: 'Twas only a question of how large a score Davidson would roll up and a question as to whether Wofford would score at all. For Davidson, the feature plays were a 35-yard run by J. McAlister, the line smashing of Burns, the work around ends of Flowers, and the Spann-King combination for forward passes, ranging from one to 40 yards. The kicking of Grey was hard to beat, his kick-offs averaging 57 yards.

This week marks the time when the grave and reverend Seniors shall march forth and expatiate to the waiting world on the great affairs of life. It marks the time when the accumulation of four years of study and meditation shall bear rich fruit in the outbursts of eloquence and in the flights of oratory. Senior speaking has arrived.

The students of Davidson were delighted to receive an invitation from the student body of Queens College to their annual reception, to be given Thanksgiving night. The final game of the class basketball series will be played this week between the Juniors and Freshmen. A hard scrap is expected. A victory for the Juniors will give them the championship and a clean slate.

Once or twice a very pugnacious attitude was confronted, and some few used very explicit language in making it plain that their sympathies were elsewhere than at Davidson. In such cases, very little effort was wasted in argument, for the mission was one of peace. More often, the very opposite stand was taken by those seen, some even soliciting, themselves, among their acquaintances, and making substantial contributions in that way. As a whole, the city of Charlotte was ready and willing to do anything she could. The students, when their efforts and time were expended, were able to report that a friendly and helpful attitude had made things much easier for them.

At 1 o'clock, the intensive campaign ended, and from far and wide over the city, the workers gathered at the Chamber of Commerce hall for dinner. It was by no means an unpopular time when that hour came, even though some were not through canvassing. After the students had come in, and the Queens girls had arrived, everyone found his or her place at the tables, and when grace was said, real business was begun. After the dinner, Mr. Lockhart called for songs and yells from Davidson and following that, some songs and a yell or so from Queens. If Queens, individually, were to say to Davidson the same thing that she says in one of her yells, there would be, indeed, great joy.

When all were seated again, Mr. Lockhart turned the affairs over to the toastmaster, who proceeded to introduce the speakers. Every one of them was full of vim, and they, recalling the old days when many of them spent their school days at Davidson, showed the absolute need for the restoration of old Chambers, not only as a building but as the emblem of a progressive Davidson. Doctor McGeachy, Mr. Faison, Mr. Davis, and Mr. Moore, all old Davidson men, whose sons and nephews are now here, or have been here in the past year or two, showed the Davidson spirit in their every word. Doctor Moore, especially, was sure of himself, as he practically became a schoolboy again, and spoke many a “full-humorous” word.

After many other speakers, including Doctor Fraser, of Queens, who is always welcomed by Davidson men as “president of our sister college,” Mr. Bishop, an alumnus of Davidson, who has attained fame as a vocal artist of much ability, gave two selections. When the speakers had finished, Mr. Lockhart again took charge of the meeting and called for the reports from each team. Totaling them, it was found that between $6,000 and $7,000 rewarded the morning’s work. There were one or two teams that could report nothing, but all of them added, “as yet,” indicating that they were not through. After the total had been taken, a short snappy campaign from those citizens present was conducted by Mr. Allison, resulting in about $3,000 in additional pledges.

D. Kriss—She swears she’s never been kissed.
Kross—That’s enough to make anyone eypate—Yale Record.

CAMPUSISMS

Many of the students spent last weekend with their parents. Among them were R. Falls, J. Hedrick, J. C. Leonard, A. S. Robinson, N. E. Sappenfield, G. L. Uzzell, E. D. Witherspoon, L. W. Dick, J. Earnhardt, D. Hanner, P. C. Henderson, W. H. Mattheson, J. S. Moore, Z. A. and R. H. Morris, J. E. Parker, M. R. Patrick, Walter Scott, A. M. Sinclair, R. L. Stowe, W. G. Thomas, W. E. Young, J. C. McMasters, and J. P. Hendrix.

It is rumored that the Freshmen are going to stage a jubilee in celebration of the mailbox which was recently placed on the campus. There is room for rejoicing, no doubt.

John Bryan’s dog evidently took Freshman Murray for an escaped convict the other day. If Murray hadn’t been such a good track man, he might have suffered injuries!

R. E. Sydenstricker, Harold Covington, and J. S. Bachman are in the infirmary, having had their tonsils removed by Doctor McConnell.

George Dupuy’s latest prodigy is an educated fly. George has trained it to do a lot of stunts, and now he is awaiting a reply to his application for a position with Barnum and Bailey.

In consideration of the amount of “pep” generated by one person, it might be fitting for Bascom Sorrells to change his name to Tabasco Sauce.

Bill Heston, while visiting friends in Charlotte last Sunday, became rather flighty—at any rate, Bill took a flight in an aeroplane. It only cost a dollar per minute, but he says it was worth every cent of it.

Flipping cigarette butts from the balcony during the movies seems to furnish amusement for a few. No doubt the people sitting below would appreciate it if the smokers would get a rattle or rubber doll with which to amuse themselves. This stunt is liable to cause someone to be seriously burned, and besides, it mars the floor of the gymnasium.

FOUR UNION SEMINARY MEN (Continued from Page 1)

hands to us and says, ‘Lovest thou Me? Feed My sheep.’”

“Sergeant” Womeldorf was the next speaker. He told of an experience he had on the battlefield. When wounded and dying men cried out, “Carry me in!” “Christ calls to us today to carry the lost in unto Him, to bring them to Him and receive salvation. Men, when they hear the call, often make excuses for not going into His service. They sometimes say, ‘I am not suited for this work.’ That is the man God wants—the man who will put himself in His hands, and He will make him suitable for the work.

“Another common excuse is, ‘I am not prepared.’ Neither were the Apostles when Christ called them, but they spent time in preparation. Give yourselves to the Master and He will make you ready for His service.

“If you think it is not a man’s job, think of the Founder of the Faith. He turned the world upside down as no man before or after has done. Next to Him comes Paul, the great apostle. He gave His life for you, for me; what are we giving Him?”

Patterson spoke on the subject, “Why I am studying for the Ministry.” He gave the reasons why he hesitated before going into the ministry, and showed how he had disposed of them. “There is the voice of duty that came into my life, calling me to the Master’s work.

“Again, the voice of reason came to me. My reason was convinced, I saw that the future world issues would be religious issues. Spiritual powers mean the most to the world. How could I refuse to heed the call?”

Russell Wood, the last speaker, spoke on the text: “Lord, what wilt Thou have me to do?” He said, “Every follower of Christ, when considering his life work, his calling in life, should say within himself; I can do something for God; what I can do, I ought to do; what I ought to do, I will do. If you want to know God’s will for your life, put your life in His hands. God in your heart, God in His word, and God in circumstances will guide when you give Him complete charge of your life.

“A call is a need and ability to heed the call. The world is dying, the needs of the world are great; the call comes to us to take the word. ‘Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature.’ It is a privilege and yet a great responsibility to carry His word. Christ is counting on us; the ministry is calling us to the highest duty. ‘If you love me, feed my sheep.’”