THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1922.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

Dr. McConnell (in History): What was the greatest advance in Roman civilization?
Monk Morris: The toga—it never got baggy at the knees.

Rod Shaw: Say, Mr. Helper, that’s a nice dog you have there.
Mr. Helper: Yes, but he’s consumptive.
Rod: Consumptive?
Mr. Helper: Yes, Spitz blood.

Lyons: I’m eating a cake of yeast every day now.
Godfrey: Does it do any good?
Lyons: Well, I rise early in the morning.

In she came;
Down she sot;
Laid an egg,
And up she got.
—(Gargoyle).

Was the dance a success? Oh, roughly speaking.

Keels: Nash: All Hail!
Hail, hail, The gang’s all here,
Don’t say that bad word,
Don’t say that bad word.
Hail, hail, the gang’s all here,
Don’t say that bad word.

Lies for the Week.
Walter Knox never goes to meet the train.
Pinky Simmons has quit chewing tobacco.
Henry Massey is a great Latin student.
The word “girl” is a synonym of trouble. Men are always looking for trouble.

Sam: We used to have a mule on our farm that seemed just like one of the family.
Frank Mc: Which one of the family it was like.

Sam: Say, Mason, what is the position of a soldier?
Mason: I don’t know; I'll bite, what is it?

Can You Beat It?
Queball Hoye stuck his dome in the student body picture at one end of the line and then ran to
the other end and posed again. A fly lighted on his dome but slipped up and broke his neck.

Prof.—Only fools are certain; wise men hesitate.
Soph—Are you sure professor?
Prof.—Yes, certain.

Willie (sleepily)—“Now I lay me down to sleep—
Mother (promptly)—“If”—
Willie—“If he hollers let him go—eeny, meeny, miny, mo!”

Frank McLeod has paid for his representation in the Peanut Parcher in full.
J. C. Bailey is the most handsome man on the campus.
We were all glad when the holidays were over so we could get back to work.
Bitzer “Whiz” Rolston never reads Bang.
Spratt Moore has not eaten zip this week.
George Cornelson—“Gee, the ground is frozen this morning.”
Fresh Baker—“If you'd been out here all night you'd be frozen too.”
Johnny Curry, it is said, wants to know if Spratt Moore is going out for All Americans.

Spots for History Exams.
1. What countries were involved in the Russo-Japanese War?
2. What grade does General Pershing hold?
3. Tell all you can about the Swiss navy.
4. Who were the straits of Magellan named after?
5. Why did Columbus discover America?
6. Where are the hanging gardens of Babylon?
7. Where was the battle of New Orleans fought?
8. What office does President Harding hold?
9. What kind of a body of water is Lake Superior?
10. Why does the Panama Canal connect the Atlantic and Pacific oceans?

THE TEST.
The test of a man is the fight he makes,
The grit he daily shows
The way that he stands on his feet and takes
Fate’s numerous bumps and blows.
A coward can smile when there’s naught to fear
When nothing his progress bars,

ODDS AND ENDS.
Lenoir—The Lenorian has begun the issuance of N. C. C. P. A. News Service bulletins in accordance with the constitution
of the association.
New York—The National Students Committee for Limitations of Armaments has begun an active press and platform campaign.
Lenoir—The Lenoir College Band rendered its first public program on December 16th. It is confidentially expected that the band will
prove a valuable addition to campus activities.
Lenoir—Twenty-two men were awarded the football “L” at a recent meeting of the student body.
Davidson—The Davidsonian plans to include all publications that are members of the Southern Intercollegiate Newspaper Association in its weekly news
service in the near future. This service will absorb the present N. C. C. P. A. service.

Those enjoying the hospitality of the infirmary during the past week include W. L. Pomeroy, L. D. Elkins, George R.
Dupuy, and Frank Toney.

“SHORT AND SNAPPY.”
“Short and Snappy!” Did you ever see that phrase before? No, I did not coin it. It was coined by
the “Hard-boiled Tops” while preparing the American soldiers to face the “music” in France. I am merely borrowing the use
of it because it fits best of any I can think of just now.I wish to tell you in a
few “Short and Snappy” sentences of a sale that is going on at Ed Mellon's, in Charlotte. Suits which would
have cost you thirty-five to forty-five dollars two weeks ago can now be bought for twenty-five to thirty-five dollars respectively.
If you want a nice tweed for spring wear, now is the time to get it and still have the
price of Keith’s left. Better see Mellon’s line before buying your spring suit or hat. They have the up-to-date brands.
(Adv.)

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr.
East Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

But it takes a man to stand up and cheer
While some other fellow stars.
It isn’t the victory after all,
But the fight that a brother makes.
Although driven against the wall,
Still stands up erect and takes
The blows of fate with his head held high
Aching and bruised and pale,
Is the man who'll win in the by and by,
For he isn’t afraid to fail.
It’s the bumps you get, and the jolts you get,
And the shock that your courage
In Bottles
The hour of sorrow and vain regret
The prize that escapes your hands
That enc mettle and prove your worth,
It isn’t the blows you deal,
But the blows you take on this good old earth
That shows if your stuff is real.
—Selected.

Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville PROGRAM
Thurs., Fri., Sat., Jan. 19th, 20th, 21st
B. F. THE GREAT JOHNSON “The Aerial Wonder”
PARDO AND ARCHER in “A Will and a Way”
E. F. HAWLEY & CO. IN “THE BANDIT,” A Mexican Playlet
FERRO AND COULTER in “Darktown Frolicks” Singing Their Own Songs
“LA PETITE CABARET” A Mannikin Musical Comedy
KEITH OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS and COMEDY

The Observer Printing House
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor,
peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.
Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices
Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel — fine garments built
up to the exacting requirements demanded by this store.
An Unusual Display at $45 $35 $40
Featuring the new 4-button sack model in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South
HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.
THE TATE-BROWN Co.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
The South’s largest
213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A HOME COMPANY
A HOME BUILDER
