4 The DAVIDSONIAN North Carolina Collegiate Press Association Southern Collegiate Press Association. FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15 “The Livest Wire on the Hill” Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College. Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class. SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year. Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 P.M. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. —— Editor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH. Forum Editor D. WINS First Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN. Second Managing Editor W. M. HESTON. D. H. OGDEN Assignment Editor S. GRACY Social Editor W. T. ELLIOTT Athletic Editor H. MAUZE Exchange Editor W. M. ORE REPORTERS’ CLUB R. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres. BROWN, C. V. SMITH, R. H. BROWN, W. P. NOX, W. I. TULLER, C. D. CALHOUN, M. P. LACY, T. A. WALTHALL, D. B. FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. H. WILDMAN, A. C. Additional Reporters POMEROY, W. L. McILWAINE, C. M. WHARTON, D. B. ICE, HARRY. M. McIVER, D. D. AUSTIN, JACK. HOPKINS, P. A. SHARPE, W. H. BUSINESS DEPARTMENT: W. J. COOPER Business Manager JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT: TAT SCALING Circulation Manager Assistants in Circulation Department: E. W. WOSSELL and C. D. TULLER S. C. P. C. HENDERSON Asst. Circulation Managers WATT McCAIN R. L. PRICE Asst. Business Managers THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922. Open Forum EDITOR’S NOTE. While every man on the new staff takes off his hat to the old staff and realizes that they did a great work for the college and for the paper, we are not satisfied with the condition of the paper as it is now and earnestly desire to improve it in every department. It seems to us that the Open Forum has been somewhat neglected and has been relegated to a backseat. This column is not an editorial column for the Forum editor. It does not exist as a means for one man to air his views to the student body. This column affords an opportunity for every man in college to express his opinions on any matter of interest to the other students. You don’t have to be a Dr. Frank Crane to comment on the college activities. If things are not running to suit you let us know about it. Another function of this column is to give you a chance to reply to the arguments of the other students. If any articles appear that you don’t like and with which you don’t agree, write a reply to it. We want to get some discussion on the topics of vital interest to all of us. Take a little time off and let us know what you are thinking about. Turn in any article which you may write to number six Rumple. EDITORIAL A NEED FOR ACTION. During the past few years, the athletic teams that have represented Davidson have received a large amount of attention. All means have been used to get more men and better men to contest for places, and the students have backed the teams in a most commendable way. These are facts of which all are proud. One branch of athletics, however, has not progressed as it should. Many of us remember when, three and four years ago, our track team was one of the best in the State. With other colleges emphasizing track, having separate coaches for it, and putting out excellent teams, there is certainly no reason why our own team should be left behind. At present, a big trouble seems to be lack of interest, both on the part of the students and on the part of the coaches. This is unfortunate when we have coaches who were fine track athletes when at college, also some promising material for this year’s team. Perhaps an apathy on the part of the students may be the cause of the relegation of track to a back seat by those in charge. Wherever the trouble lies, it can be remedied to a great extent if action is taken on both sides. Field Day was the event in the past that ushered in the track season. Many who didn’t think they could make the team were still anxious to go out for this. To discard Field Day, remove such an incentive, and lose the chance of securing a number of good men for the team, seems a pity. If the students are to blame for not showing the proper interest in the occasion, its importance must be seen, and the Athletic Association executives made to realize that we want it every year. This stand can revive the old spirit, and give track a great impetus. D. CO-OPERATE WITH US. It would be impossible for the new staff to take charge of the Davidsonian and not say a word of commendation to those who have worked so faithfully to make the past year’s paper a success. None are more anxious than we are to have honor and recognition bestowed where it is due. This could not be more fittingly given than to the retiring members of the staff of 1921-22 as was clearly shown in an article of last week’s Open Forum. The amount of work that some of these men have done for the Davidsonian and through the Davidsonian for Davidson, is known by very few, and the rewards that crowned their efforts certainly have seldom been in any way comparable with the work they have done. No praise that is given them will be misplaced or undeserved. We realize the responsibility and work that lies before us, new and untried; but we are undertaking it with a determination to succeed, and a desire as this first issue goes to press to please, interest, and gain the co-operation of our subscribers. Only thus can the standards that have been set be maintained and a greater degree of success attained. But we know that, backed by the students and the alumni, nothing can prevent the continued prosperity and growth of the paper which will be so earnestly striven for. The Davidsonian has become a college paper of which every student here should justly be proud. We hope that everyone does have this feeling and will help to make it even more interesting, representative, and successful. The boosting and suggesting that any do will be greatly appreciated; their knocking can only hinder and dispirit without aiding in any way. Won't each one of you think of this, and tell others what you like and us what you don’t like! Only in this way can there be a real co-operation here on the campus that will mean a step toward progress. What the Davidsonian might mean to the alumni and the loyal support they could give it, cannot be stressed enough. We are starting our work with the idea of increasing especially the interest of the alumni by printing more news about them and more items they like to read. In return we want more of them to read this. Not only does much happen to graduates that their old college-mates would like to know of, but by their hearing of the doings on the campus more than by any other method can the close connection between Davidson and her alumni be maintained. For the interests of the college therefore, and of the Davidsonian, we ask your co-operation and support. THE HONOR SYSTEM. We read in the Handbook under the head of Honor System, that each student is on his honor to report to the Student Council any violation of the student body constitution that he may observe. Yes, and we also find in the constitution that no student shall refrain from reporting any violation of the Honor System which comes under his observation. Has this been done for the last few years here? No; it certainly has not. Many of us have said or heard other boys say that we wouldn’t report anybody for cheating at exams. We have begun to regard the councilmen as detectives or policemen. We feel that we are safe in doing most anything if we can hide it from the Student Council. Quoting again from the constitution we find it shall be the duty of the Student Council to receive, prefer, and try any charge against a student for violation ofany provisions of the constitution. The council is not and was never intended to be a bunch of detectives. It was instituted as a court to see that any student charged with a breach of honor should be cleared or dealt with properly. It is now becoming a disagreeable position to be a member of the council and not an honor. Everyone hates to report a fellow student for a misdemeanor and in many cases it seems almost impossible. But if we are to have a healthy honor system, a college which is a safe place to send boys to, we must abide by our Constitution and create a sentiment against breaches of the Honor System. The time is soon coming to elect a new council. Let us put men on this council whom we trust, respect, and whom we know will stand for the right. Give us keen, clear-minded men who are fearless in the performance of their duty. Above all things, don’t expect too much of the Student Council unless you are willing to back them and help them do away with wrong on the campus.

Mrs. Montgomery, mother of Frank Montgomery, ’25, and niece, Mrs. Warwick, of Frankfort, Ky., spent the weekend in Davidson on their way home from Florida, where they have been spending the winter.

Dr. C. M. Richards preached at the First Presbyterian Church in Concord last Sunday.

With Other Colleges Interesting Facts.

Princeton, N. J., Jan. 9—Freshmen at Princeton consider a varsity letter more desirable than a Phi Beta Kappa key, according to a recent questionnaire that was filled out. Ninety-nine men favored the varsity letter while 64 expressed a preference for the key. Other facts brought out showed that 17 men had stopped smoking since entering college while only two had acquired the habit; 146 had kissed girls, 28 hadn’t; 99 approved of the modern girl, 47 didn’t; 98 had taken a drink before coming to college against 68 who hadn’t. The average number of girls written to by each man was 3.8. The most desirable extra curriculum office was editor-in-chief of the Princetonian; chairman of the senior council was second, and captain of the football team, third.

NUMEROUS CHANGES MADE IN NEW EDITION OF CATALOGUE

The Catalogue of Davidson College for 1922-23 has been published, setting forth the attractions and elucidating upon the privileges of attending this institution. The greatest change in the college next year will be the new dormitories. These will be ready for occupancy by next September. They will each house 115 students; they are to be modern in all respects, similar in arrangement to Georgia. The charge for rooms in these dormitories will be $45 as compared to $35 for Georgia, Watts, and Rumple. A new course of study is to be introduced. After the student has completed the work required in his Freshman and Sophomore years, a group of studies in Commerce may be taken as a major. There are now four groups: Language, History and Philosophy, Science, and Commerce. Students who take A.B. 1 or A.B. 2 courses in their Freshmen and Sophomore years may major in any one of the groups; those who take a B.S. 1 must major in the Science group, and those who take B.S. 2 must major in the Commerce or History and Philosophy groups. The term-hour point system will be in full swing next year, making it necessary to have 132 term hours and 200 points to graduate. Tuition will be raised from $37.50 per term. The entire fee will be $140 instead of $125 this year. The college will open on September 12th.

MUCH TALKED OF PICTURE TO BE SHOWN THIS WEEK

Bringing into bold review quaint small-town character types familiar to residents of interior towns throughout the country, “Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford,” a Cosmopolitan production released by Paramount, and a picturization of George M. Cohan’s celebrated stage success, will be the feature at the movies Saturday night. The humorous and naive qualities of country folk are disclosed with great skill, yet without occasioning the slightest offense. J. Rufus Wallingford and “Blackie” Daw, his partner, are getting ready to swindle a town. They pretend that they are big manufacturers and that they intend to put a big company there. The townspeople are all for the idea and they give the two crooks everything they want on credit. The company is formed and they are to manufacture carpet tacks; the name of the company is “The Universal Covered Carpet Tack Co.” The crooks get a great deal of money and are almost ready to skip but they find that they have fallen in love with two of the town girls. A large manufacturer comes to see Wallingford and offers to give him a million dollars for his line of goods. Eddie Lamb, a young fellow who was sent out as a salesman to fool the people, comes back with an order for more than a hundred thousand gross of the new tacks. Wallingford and “Blackie” nearly collapse at this news. At the close of the story both the crooks are rich and influential men in the town, and have married, and have happy homes.

“Can a lover be called a suitor when he doesn’t suit her?”

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Dear Dad—I am asking you for some cash sooner than I had hoped, but, you see, several things have come up—books, dues, laboratory fees, room rent, etc. Please send me a check for $80. Respectfully, your son, LAMAR.

My dear son: I received your special today and am enclosing the amount you asked for. I was in college myself, you see. With love, DAD. P.S.—Is she good looking?

The Belles

Hear the laughter of the belles! City belles! What a world of merriment its melody foretells! Hear the chatter, chatter, chatter In the city everywhere! Making hearts go pit-a-patter— Making old men stand and stare! Stand and stare! stare! stare! At the bobbed and curly hair And the eyes! eyes! eyes! Eyes that catch and hypnotize, While within the hearts of tea hounds thoughts of flirting really dwells, With the belles, belles, belles, belles! With the smart and haughty, slightly naughty belles! The mobs and gobs of merry city belles! Some belles!

Hear the singing of the belles! Country belles! As their voice throughout the woodland sinks and swells! Clad in gingham quite appealing To the modest rural lad; While the rural moon is stealing O’er the mountain tops, they’re kneeling, While their rural bull is reeling, Elucidating lover’s feeling To the maiden gingham clad, And she says, “Aw, go ask dad!” And the father, aggravated, In a state intoxicated, Kicks them off the farm unaided! So it happens to many maidens who far from the city dwells! Those dear old belles, belles, belles! The slickum roping, sly eloping belles! Rural belles!

(Watch your laurels, Mr. Poe.) —Technique.

Horse Sense.

“Yist-day,” says Uncle Zeke, “I drapped foah cents on the floor and dey made a big racket. Eef dey had been foah dollar bills nobody would have heard ’em drap. People is jest like money; dem dat makes the most noise ain't allus of de mos’ account.”—Boys’ News.

Charley Paddock, the phenomenal sprinter and holder of seven world’s records, recently turned a cold shoulder to promoters who offered him a $20,000 a year contract to turn professional and run in Europe. He says: “Professionalism in the true sense of the word does not injure the athlete or lower the standard of individual achievements, but it certainly ruins the spirit of amateur athletics. Had I accepted that professional offer I might have been able to run just as well when money was the object, but the pleasure of running would be gone and the spirit of amateurism and sportsmanship, which is the prize of collegiate competition, would be lost. I wouldn’t go across the street to see a salaried college football team play a game, though they were just as good as amateur players. One team in that case is working for money and the other fighting for a purpose and an ideal, and that is what makes teams. Professionalism, if allowed to continue in collegiate sport, will end by ruining the spirit of true competition.”

Pre—What can we do tonight? Med—Let’s go around to the cemetery and dig up a couple of girls—Trinity Chronicle.