2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 2, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH Forum Editor
L. D. ELKINS First Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN Campus Editor
W. M. HESTON Second Managing Editor
D. H. OGDEN Y. M. C. A. Editor
J. S. GRACY Assignment Editor
W. T. ELLIOTT Social Editor
E. H. MAUZE Athletic Editor
H. M. MORRIS Literary Editor
F. C. WILDMAN Alumni Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD Press Editor
W. M. COX Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.
BROWN, W. P.
JONES, J. R.
JONES, R. R.
KNOX, W. I.
LACY, T. A.
MOFFETT, A. N.
MOORE, W. H.
MOSS, H. M.
PRICE, H. B.
TULLER, C. D.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WHARTON, D. B.
WILDMAN, A. C.
McILWAINE, C. M.
McIVER, D. D.
MAUZE, G. W.
SHARPE, W. H.
BITZER, R.
CALHOUN, M. P.
EARNEST, J. R.
FEWELL, ED.

ADDITIONAL REPORTERS:
CURDTS, J. W.; POMEROY, W. L.; TROTTER, J. M.; AUSTIN, J.; BRIGGS, J. R.; PATTON, J. H.; McLEAN, G.; WEEKS,
E. E.; SPRAGINS, T. D.; CALHOUN, L. E.; SHARPE, W. H.; PATTERSON, P. M.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE Assistant Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
Assistants in Circulation Department:
R. B. LILES
E. THROWER
WATT McCAIN Circulation Manager
E. C. MOOMAW
J. A. THOMPSON
S. C. FAIN Asst. Circulation Mgr.

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible

EDITORIAL

In two weeks we will find what we have wanted for years! Not only will one new dormitory be added
to the row, but now we will have two more. West and East are buildings any college could be proud
of.

This year the old traditions of Davidson, the democratic spirit of the student body, must be kept alive by us
as well if not better than in the past. Every new man should make it his ambition to learn all
the upper-classmen. The old men can lend a helping hand, train the new men and be their friends. Let’s all
speak whenever we meet each other.

Coach Grey has certainly made a wonderful success in advancing Davidson’s athletics. We will realize this particularly when we get
back and find a new athletic field being made ready for the freshman teams, and coaches able to give us
a winning football team. Everybody get behind the team from the start.

Won’t our big new bell sound good! No more whistles and bugles to disturb the peaceful campus, but a real
bell again, four or five times the size of the old one, to call us to classes.

Our Prospect This Year

Whether we return to Davidson after a vacation of three months or enter for the first time to begin our
new year’s work, a different and better college will open its doors to us this fall. Two new and modern
dormitories cannot fail to attract the eye and gain the admiration of each of us as we glance for the
first time down dormitory row, and make us feel that Davidson has received a new life for this year’s work.
Not even the fact that our cherished old Chambers building can no more be the center of our campus life
can now detract from the spirit of progress which soon even in its place will have a new seat for
the administrative affairs of the college.

The spirit of unrest that came over all the students, especially last spring, had numerous causes that were hardly preventable
then. With the opening of school this month practically all of these will have been removed. Our new quarters will
not be crowded at all; every room will be more comfortable with only two occupants, and a much more studious
atmosphere can be maintained in the rooms. Then, too, the entire campus will seem large and more comfortable since we
will have five dormitories to live in, and not be crowded in three.

These conditions, therefore, should make an ideal foundation upon which to start a profitable and successful year. In it much
can be accomplished by all who really come to work, and we hope that every man who registers will have
such a determination. The new system of graduation in which hours are counted and a greater degree of specialization allowed,
is another inducement to study. Here, especially, one should realize that each year’s work is dependent upon the preceding and
unless he masters his elementary courses, it will be impossible to major in them with any degree of success or
pleasure.

This leads us to say a word to the new men who have decided to come to Davidson. Look over
the entire four years of the course that you intend to take and be certain that you know what you
are getting. Don’t be careless and start in a course that looks easy the first year. If you do, it
will very probably result in your desiring to change or mix your studies, too often leading to failure. Besides knowing
what is in the course you get, get a course you want. Then determine to take it all and graduate
at Davidson. We want those who enter as freshmen this fall to stay four years, and not to drop out
or change schools in one year or two, finally ending by not acquiring the knowledge and the degree now so
coveted. And as the college is of the most value to the men who stay their full four years, so
these are the men who are of greatest value to the college.

R. F. D.

FACULTY DOINGS
(Continued from page 1)

Professor Wood and family are summering at Lewisburg, W. Va. Professor Wood had a short stay in the hospital but
is reported as being on his feet again.

Dr. and Mrs. Harding have divided their time between Charlotte, Davidson, and Montreat.

Mr. Hengeveld’s vacation was spent in Waycross, Ga. Mrs. Hengeveld has been there all summer, and has been recently seriously
ill. This is the first opportunity the Davidsonian has had of introducing little Miss Hengeveld who will be a new
resident at Davidson this winter.

Coach Grey’s address changed daily for part of the summer, he being out on the road in the interest of
athletics and athletic equipment. Mrs. Grey and H. M. Junior have been at Greenwood, S.C.

Professor Thies has been studying in Cornell University this summer, while Mrs. Thies has been in Charlotte.

Prof. L. M. Currie has also been studying at Cornell, while Mrs. Currie has visited home folks in Niagara Falls,
N. Y.

Mr. Jackson has “been on the job” all summer, with the exception of a few days when he attended the
Educational Conference at Montreat. Mrs. Jackson and children have spent the summer in Davidson.

Miss Shaw, the librarian, is spending the month of August at Balsam, N. C.

Miss Hattie Thompson, assistant to the treasurer, spent her vacation at home in Davidson.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson, secretary to the dean and treasurer, spent several weeks during July visiting friends and relatives in Montreat
and Lumberton, N.C.

Miss Orrie Steele, secretary to the president, spent her vacation in Cleveland, Ohio, and on Cass Lake, Detroit, Michigan.

Mrs. Robson has spent the months of July and August in New York City.

Dr. C. M. Richards held several evangelistic meetings in the early part of the summer, and later joined his family
for his vacation at their cottage in Montreat.

Major and Mrs. Hearn, and Thomas G., Junior, were in Davidson for the first part of the summer. When Major
Hearn went to camp Mrs. Hearn took advantage of his absence to visit her parents, Col. and Mrs. Jadwin, in
Charleston, S. C.

Captains Ellis, Weatherby and George attended camp and are back on duty ready for another good year with us. Mr.
Ryan, Sergeants McLellan and Marshall are back from camp and ready for school to open.

Mrs. N. T. Smith will be supervisor of the dormitories.Many of the boys need no introduction to her. Her presence
in the dormitories will add a touch of neatness and cleanliness to dormitory life that has been heretofore lacking and
that will be genuinely appreciated by the boys. Mrs. Smith served during the war in Red Cross and Y.M.C.A. work
and made a reputation for herself that has brought frequent calls for after-war service of a similar nature. She has
had a position this summer in New York City. Mrs. Smith’s experience in working with young men will qualify her
in a particular manner for her service at Davidson. Mrs. Smith has lived in Davidson for a number of years.
Her refined personality and dignified manner will win many friends for her on the Davidson campus. Mr. H. A. Murrill,
Jr., whose coming to Davidson was announced last spring, will be on hand at the opening to assist Coach Grey
in putting out a winning bunch of Wildcats.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
September 23—Elon-Davidson College.
September 29—South Carolina at Clinton.
October 7—Georgia Tech at Atlanta.
October 14—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
October 21—V.P.I. at Davidson.
October 28—Trinity (place undecided).
November 4—North Carolina State at Raleigh.
November 11—Wofford at Charlotte.
November 30—Furman at Greenville.

Don’t forget to put a pair of sheets in your suitcase—your trunk is liable to miscarry or be delayed.

COLLEGE AND TOWN IMPROVEMENT
The campus and streets of Davidson have been alive with men and teams passing to and fro in the numerous
jobs of construction. The students will be interested first in the new dormitories and the progress that has been made
in their erection. West Building is completed with the exception of putting on the locks and setting up the bathroom
fixtures. The plastering, plumbing, painting, etc., is being rushed with all possible haste in East Building. It is still hoped
that this building will be ready to be occupied when college opens. This is the best we can hope for,
however. These are quite handsome buildings and afford every convenience that student life could ask for. Most of the furniture
is on hand and other is being received daily. The woodwork of the rooms is stained dark oak, while the
floors are finished with boiled linseed oil flooded on. The corridor floors are concrete and the stair steps, slate. The
Georgia, Watts, and Rumple buildings are being treated to a coat of calcimine. Bookshelves have been built in on each
end of the study tables adding a convenience heretofore lacking. It is hoped to have the outside woodwork of Georgia,
Watts, Rumple, and the Library painted before the students return. The Chemistry building, and the residence occupied by Dr. Harding,
Dr. J. M. McConnell, and Mr. Jackson have already been painted. The work on the new boiler room, situated east
of the laundry, is well under way. Two new 150 H.P. boilers have been purchased and are on the ground.
The contract has been let and work will begin within a few days toward laying the steam mains to the
new dormitories, to North and South dormitories, and to the gymnasium. These buildings are all to be connected with the
new central heating plant. Excavation has been completed for building an extension to the church. It is hoped this will
be completed within a few weeks. Of the Chambers’ debris nearly 350,000 bricks have been cleaned, and three thousand loads
of brick bats and trash have been hauled away and placed in washed-out alleys around town and in the big
gullies on the golf course. Mr. J. Lee Sloan has erected two handsome store-rooms on Main Street, one occupied now
by Mr. Henderson, the jeweler, and the other to be used as the post office as soon as new fixtures,
now overdue, arrive. Mr. J. V. Knox is building three store-rooms between the telephone office and Goodrum’s store. It is
reported that a contract has recently been let for a brick garage between Goodrum’s store and the meat market, which
will be used for a Ford sales agency and to do general repair work. “Smiley” has installed new equipment in
his restaurant. The “New York Cafe” will occupy the building vacated by the jewelry store. The concrete base and header
for the new hard-surfaced road from Charlotte to Davidson has been completed from the town limits on the North to
the railroad underpass below the oil mill. It is expected that the Tarvia binder will be finished by the time
college opens.

BOARDING HOUSES
Managers, Capacity, and Price Per Month
Miss Shumaker—W. A. Gamble and A. C. Wiedman, 200, $17.00.
Mrs. Marnes—50, $17.50.
S. A. Thompson—J. D. Bernhardt, 85, $20.00.
Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Williamson—W. T. Elliott, 35, $20.00.
Mrs. L. R. Smith—Ed Fewell, 20, $25.00.
Mrs. L. B. Long—H. M. Morris, 30, $25.00.
Mrs. Brady—
Mrs. White.
Mrs. Bramblet (Mrs. Henderson’s).

Room Regulations
Only two men to the room.
Only two lights of 50 watts each to a room.
Furniture must not be transferred from one room to another.
No one will be allowed to change rooms without first reporting to the office.

DIRECTORY OF THE OFFICERS OF STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS AT DAVIDSON COLLEGE
1. General Secretary of Y.M.C.A., A. L. Currie.
2. President of Y.M.C.A., C. R. Crawford.
3. President of Student Body, S. Davis, Jr.
4. President of Athletic Association, W. S. Shepard, Jr.
5. Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian, R. F. Davidson.
6. Editor-in-Chief of The Magazine, W. J. Cooper.
7. Editor-in-Chief of Quips and Cranks, W. S. Buchanan.
8. President of Senior Class, G. B. Sorrells.
9. President of Junior Class, E. S. Faison.
10. President of Sophomore Class, McP. S. Beall.
11. President of Freshman Class. (Elected after Christmas.)
12. President of Eumenean Literary Society, W. T. Elliott.
13. President of Pandeinic Literary Society, W. A. Gamble, Jr.
14. President of Metrophilian Literary Society, L. P. Burney.
15. President of Philanthropic Literary Society, H. K. Russell.
16. Major of R.O.T.C., W. J. Cooper.
17. President of Volunteer Band, G. E. Weeks.
18. President of Ministerial Band, W. T. Baker.
19. President of Christian Endeavor Training Class, J. L. McLean.
20. Captain of Football Team, J. S. Moore.
21. Captain of Baseball Team, C. R. Crawford.
22. Captain of Basketball Team, G. W. Mauze.
23. Captain of Track Team—
24. Captain of Tennis Team, S. H. Bradley.
25. Captain of Golf Team—
26. President of Dramatic Club, E. T. Woolfolk, Jr.
27. Band Leader—
28. Glee Club Leader, R. L. McLeod, Jr.

BY THE WAY—
By the Mental Meanderer

The Main Street Open Forum was discussing men and measures and speculating as to the whys and wherefores of the
success of some and the failure of others.

“Indecision,” said one member of the group, “spoils more careers than any other one thing. I’ve seen and you’ve seen
men who, because of their physical and mental equipment and ambition, ought to have been successful men in their particular
lines. But they were failures, very largely because of the fact that they seemed to lack the power of making
a decision. In the matter of even trivial things they wavered. Fear of making a mistake was their great bugbear,
or perhaps fear of adverse criticism from some source. They couldn’t decide. And as a result, when great opportunities came
along they failed to meet the test. The old saying that ‘he who hesitates is lost’ has a world of
truth in it.”

To all of which the Mental Meanderer gave his hearty endorsement. He has seen more than one illustration of this
very striking truth. On the other hand, we see men of very mediocre ability push themselves to success because they
did not hesitate; they had the power to make decisions when the time came. They made mistakes, of course, as
all of us do. But they didn’t waver and vacillate and change their minds. They adopted a course of action
and then bent every energy toward the accomplishment of the thing sought for. No fear that a wrong decision had
been made was gnawing at their vitals. If boys and girls just beginning to prepare for life could have this
lesson indelibly stamped on their memories, how much failure, misery, and distress would they avoid in after life—Gastonia Gazette.

PHILOSOPHY II
The course in Philosophy II is open to Juniors and Seniors. Any Junior or Senior will have sufficient preparation for
the course if he has had Philosophy I or is this session taking Psychology I.
