THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922.

By WINDY AIKEN

Before.
Little dots o’ powder, little daubs of paint
Make the little vampire look like what she ain't.
Little bit of snake oil, kind o’ slovenly way
Makes a first-class tea-hound out of any country jay.

After.
But when the vamp and tea-hound,
What e’er they were before,
Get together near a jazzy band
They sure do rock the floor.

Overheard at the Ball Game During Speaking.
He—“Do you like sports?”
She—“Yes, but father runs them at ten.”

Judge—You are sentenced to be hanged by the neck until death.
Prisoner—Judge, I believe you're stringing me.

Lost — Two pillows Friday night, March 24th, somewhere between the Chemistry Lab and Phi Hall. Finder please return to
Ray Doubles and receive reward.

Tinkle, Tinkle, Little Bell.
Tinkle, tinkle, little bell!
Never yegg in prison cell
Never soul in blackest—(Well,
No one, we think—none can tell)
Suffered torment like that bell.

When they rang the little bell,
Out the students ran pell-mell;
Took one pained look—(‘Tis sad to tell!)
And set up such an awful yell
You'd think they’d ring its funeral knell;
This inoffensive little bell.

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval.
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.
Write for special service plan

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

New Society Brand Clothes for spring have just come in and now is a good time to select your spring
clothes.
TATE-BROWN CO.
218 N. Tryon St.
Charlotte, N. C.

New Spring Clothes for College Men
If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no matter who made
it---come here. We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are better. In the cut
of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat, the hang of the trousers, also the
difference between hand tailoring and machine work.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN A HOME COMPANY REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N.C.
LIFE SERVICE A HOME BUILDER
CHARLOTTE BY H. J. Spencer, Mgr.

“Do you feel bad, little bell
That you creak, and squeak, and yell,
And imitate a cracked cow-bell
When we thought you’d sound so well?
Don’t you know a proper bell
Gives round sweet notes that swell and swell
Till every echo of the dell
Rings back a tribute to the bell?
Why can’t you do it, little bell?

Dear profs and trustees; you who dwell
Beyond the sound of this new bell—
We love our whistle blast so well
We fain would keep it. But tell
Of this new bell
Engenders madness! Let us sell
Please let us sell this awful bell.

What’s the masculine for “laundress”?
How about Chinaman,

The Height of Salesmanship.
Selling Ivory Soap that won’t float.

Just because you are built like a ham, it’s no sign you're Swift.

A Poem.
Hark
Park
Girl
Curl
Cinch
Clinch
Breeze
Squeeze
Kiss
Bliss
Cop
Stop!!!

The Long and Short Of It.
Fresh Regen and McAlpine.

The Height of Hardness.
Taking a girl out riding on a moonlight night, promising not to kiss her—and keep the promise.

The other day I had the good fortune to come upon the well-known maker of Eskimo Pies. To my horror,
it is a very cruel process. The maker of these pies has several cold cows, which shiver constantly, grazing as
they do entirely on hundred-pound blocks of ice, per cow. Several men sit with pails ofchocolate on one side, and
the cows on the other. They milk the ice cream which the cows give into small forms, and then drop
them one by one into the chocolate and they come out Eskimo pies.

The Fiercest Fight of All.

I’ve landed on the rugged strands
Of many a foreign country
And failures more than eight score
Have happened all to me.
I’ve suffered the pangs of hunger’s fangs.
My throat parched from thirst,
I’ve ached and I've bled till I wished I were dead
As I quietly moaned and cursed.
The sickening gore of the bloody war
I had to endure on the seas,
And I've tried to pass thru liquid gas
With a squad of S. A. T. C's.
I've been afloat in an open boat—
Adrift for days and days
Fought hand to hand with a savage band
And scorched in a forest blaze.
In the bitter cold I've dug for gold
On a little Yukon creek
But the only bout that ever knocked me out
Was a Davidson Junior Speaking week.

Gidap! Tucker entertained Sunday afternoon at a wagon ride in honor of President Weeks, of the State Volunteer Union, and
a few members of the Davidson Brass Band.

Don’t he act like a blotter, takes up everything and puts out nothing.

The Social Lion’s Aid.
1. A debut party is the ceremony of nighting one’s daughter.
2. A wallflower is an almost extinct species of the feminine variety.
3. A stag is a beast of prey.

Note—For the benefit of all “parlor aviators” or “tea-hounds,” The Social Lion’s Aid will be printed each week.

The two best ways to capture a feminine heart: One is to spend money on her. So is the other.

Percival—If you don’t marry me, I'll blow my brains out.
Mary—Oh, don’t; your lungs, you might strain.

Black Hand Letter—Send us $1,000 or we will kidnap your wife.
Reply—Haven’t got $1,000, but am greatly interested in your proposition.

“Set the alarm for two please.”
“You and who else?”

Duck Ormand—Say, girlie, please don’t squeeze my neck so tight, I’ve got on a clean collar.

FAR ENOUGH.

A young man had called upon his best girl the night before. As a result he had but poorly prepared
his Virgil lesson. In spite of this fact he translated fairly well for a short time but after reading “and
I put my arms around her” he suddenly stopped, unable to translate farther, and said: “That is as far as
I got, Professor.” The instructor's reply was, “That is far enough, young man.”

Never be afraid of catching a cold from a shower of curls.

General Office

And now we have artificial lightning. One million volts of electricity—approximately one fiftieth of the voltage in a lightning flash—have
been sent successfully over a transmission line in the General Engineering Laboratory of the General Electric Company. This is nearly
five times the voltage ever before placed on a transmission line.

Man-Made Lightning

FRANKLIN removed some of the mystery. But only recently has science really explained the electrical phenomena of the thunderstorm. Dr.
C. P. Steinmetz expounds this theory. Raindrops retain on their surfaces electrical charges, given off by the sun and other
incandescent bodies. In falling, raindrops combine, but their surfaces do not increase in proportion. The electrical pressure grows rapidly. Finally,
it reaches the limit the air can stand and the lightning flash results. Hence, the electrical pressure grows rapidly.

Much valuable knowledge of high voltage phenomena—essential for extending long distance transmission—was acquired from these tests. Engineers now see the
potential power in remote mountain streams serving industries hundreds of miles away. Man-made lightning was the result of ungrudging and
patient experimentation by the same engineers who first sent 15,000 volts over a long distance thirty years ago. “Keeping everlastingly
at it brings success.” It is difficult to forecast what the results of the next thirty years may be.

General Electric Company
