THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS

WATCH THE SLOGANS!

Query for April 13, 1922. Resolved, That poisonous gases and submarines in warfare should be abolished.

EUMENEANS SPEAK ON OPEN SHOP PRACTICABILITY

The meeting of the Eu Society last Thursday night was short but interesting. The timely subject, Resolved, That the closed shop is justifiable, was debated in an excellent manner. McCutchen, Beers, and Moss, H. O., upheld the affirmative, while Henry Morris, Moffett, and Cunningham, ably defended the negative. The main arguments centered around the three outstanding issues: Will closed shops work too great a monopoly in industry, will they cause the unions to restrict membership, and will they be justifiable for moral, financial and other reasons. The speakers on each side rendered strong arguments pro and con which added a great deal of interest to the program. The judges rendered their decision two to one in favor of the negative. The house, voting upon the merits of the question, decided also in favor of the negative.

R. A. M. Martin gave a choice selection for declamation. His good delivery and careful enunciation foretell an able and ardent speaker for the Eu Society. Another feature of the program for the evening was an oration on “The Greatest Thing in the World,” given by Sharpe. This was a well thought out speech and was delivered in a very forceful manner.

METROPHILIANS HAVE THEIR REGULAR WEEKLY MEETING

The Metrophilians in a hard-fought debate last Thursday evening decided that the closed shop is not justifiable, and that in its present form it should be prohibited. W. P. Kimzey and F. C. Thames, of the negative, won over W. K. McCain and T. A. Lacy by a two to one vote. The program was short, consisting of the debate and current events by A. C. Ray, the latter speaker, who brought attention to bear upon every event of interest since the meeting of March 23. He elucidated at length on the recent battle with the “Catawbians,” and wound up his speech with a digested summary of Junior Speaking. Several important business matters concerning graduation from the society were brought up. The constitution committee then presented the new constitution in mimeographed form. After it has been adopted with all amendments and reservations, it will be bound in booklet form and copies will be sent to every member. In the absence of President Taylor, the vice-president, J. D. Bernhardt, presided.

PHI MEMBERS DISCUSS THE ADVANTAGE OF CLOSED SHOP

The Philanthropic Literary Society on last Thursday night had an interesting and snappy program. The question for debate was, Resolved, That the closed shop in industry is justifiable. The debate was full of pep from start to finish. A. V. Gibson and F. S. Johnston were the champions of the cause, while H. K. Russell and W. P. Brown were the aggressors.

In an oration J. I. Knight took the word “Jew” and portrayed the significance and future of the race in a manner which would have greatly surprised the prophets of old. C. W. Robinson spoke on the baseball game which had been played Thursday afternoon. His speech was humorous and interesting throughout. The program was fully up to the usual standard.

DEBATE OF THE PANDEINICS FILLED WITH ENTHUSIASM

The Pandeinics held a typically live and interesting meeting on March 25. The usual order of program was observed except for the fact that there were two declamations delivered. The query for debate was, Resolved, That the closed shop in industry is justifiable. The affirmative was strongly upheld by C. F. Wildman and Gray, and they were opposed by Young and McLaughlin. The house rendered its decision in favor of the affirmative. The gentlemen on for declamation were Ocland and Gibbs. Ocland gave the familiar piece of the Black Horse and His Rider, while Gibbs rendered a less familiar, but nonetheless interesting and patriotic declamation. The regular critic being absent, T. M. Lowry filled the post with his usual efficiency. The next meeting of the society will be a joint one with the Eumeneans, in which there will be an inter-society debate and program.

DR. PONS HEARD. (Continued from page 1)

interesting facts concerning their prosperity and business life. Tuesday morning he told of the persecutions and trials of his church since it was founded. He described the wanderings and final settlement of this church party after it was driven from France and Spain.

OLD AND NEW DAVIDSONIAN STAFFS BANQUET TOGETHER

The old and new staffs of the Davidsonian banqueted together at Mrs. Long’s last Tuesday night to celebrate the inauguration of the new administration. Following the time-honored Davidsonian tradition, the “gustatory and gastronomic” element was made the chief feature of the occasion, and figured largely in all that was said and done. Several of the members discovered rare abilities along this line. Bill Cooper's joke is acknowledged by all to be in a class all its own. Mule Currie’s satire in making out the last will and testament could not have shown itself to better advantage. J. C. Wool rose to the occasion and told a joke that actually had some connection with what he wished to say. Jim Sprunt, however, should surely hold the honors of the evening, because in his own line he showed himself a consummate artist.

Mack Richards, early in the evening, sounded the note of nearly all the retiring members when he solemnly assured the new men that their woes were come upon them. Then the heads of each of the old departments arose in his turn, and bemoaned the hard, hard lot of those who worked in the Business, or the Circulation, or the Managing, or the Alumni, or any of the other Departments, and each concluded his remarks by telling of the joy he took in passing on his work to his successor. The new men were not to be discouraged, however, and responded enthusiastically to the challenge thus placed upon them.

The faculty representative of the evening was Mr. Jackson, and at the conclusion of the festivities he rose and sketched the history and phenomenal growth of the Davidsonian, describing the large place it had come to occupy in the work of the college. He concluded by sketching several plans on foot for the coming year by which the Davidsonian hopes to serve the college even better than in the past.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Hood Monday evening. The poems and life of Lindsay, who will visit Davidson the latter part of April, was the discussion of the evening.

WAKE FOREST DEFEATED. (Continued from page 1)

his brother, completing a neat double killing. Luke Erwin opened Davidson’s half by hoisting to Albritton, but Crawford thrusted a Texas leaguer over short. Pritchett, who was hitting savagely in the pinches, sent a long, twisting fare- ford over with the winning run. He wins a well-deserved place in Assassin’s Alley. He rolled around his post at first like a well-oiled lawn mower, cutting off base hits. He handled 17 chances in the field in a faultless manner and made several sensational plays that would look good in the big-time show. In the third, with the bases as full as a new arrival in Cuba, Dennis flogged a dirter ten feet to the right of Crawford. Pat threw himself at the ball, knocked it down and tossed the apple to Boushee. At bat he strolled on four wide ones once, drove out a double and a single and scored two runs.

Box score:
Davidson: ab r hpoa e
Erwin, 2b 4 0 1 2 2 5 4 0
I 00010 Bewick, cf 5 0 1 2 0 0 Crawford, 1b 4 2 2 16 1 0 Pritchett, ss 4 0 1 2 4 1 McMillian, c 4 0 1 7 2 0 McLeod, lf 4 0 2 0 0 0 Brown, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0 Boushee, p 4 1 1 0 4 1 Brice, 3b 4 1 1 0 0 0 Totals 38 5 10 30 18 6 xBatted for Freeman in the seventh.

Wake Forest: ab r h po a e Stringfield, ss 4 1 2 2 4 1 Lisle, 2b 4 1 2 2 2 0 Armstrong, 1b 4 1 2 6 0 0 Edwards, rf 4 0 1 0 0 0 Barnes, 3b, p 4 0 1 0 1 0 Poole, cf 4 0 1 0 0 0 Dennis, c 4 0 1 7 0 0 Streamey, p 4 0 1 0 2 0 Totals 42 4 9 28 9 1 xOne out when winning run was scored.

Summary—Two base hits, Barnes (2), Crawford, Erwin, L. Stringfield. Sacrifice hit, Poole. Stolen base, Erwin, M. Earned runs, Wake Forest 0, Davidson 3. Double plays, Stringfield unassisted, Erwin, L., to Erwin, M. Walked, by Streamey 3. Struck out, by Boushee 1, by Barnes 1, by Streamey 4. Umpire, Orby. Time 2:23.

Trinity Game. In a game that developed a ragged edge after the fourth inning, Trinity easily defeated Davidson before a small crowd in Winston-Salem Saturday. It was the fifth consecutive victory for the lads from Durham, and it was made possible by the loose fielding of the Wildcats and the heavy stick work of Trinity, every man on the Methodist team connecting for at least one hit. Sorrells was on the hill for the Red and Black and with anything like decent support would have turned in a very creditable game. Many of the Trinity hits were chances that the Davidson infielders should have handled. Lefty Simpson did the mound duty for Trinity and turned in a good game.

The Wildcats were handicapped by being rushed into the game without sufficient warming-up after a hard trip. They arrived in the Tobacco City at three o’clock and the game started at three-thirty. The team was not in condition and the result does not indicate the true strength of the team.

Box score: (Continued on page 7)

Trinity: ab r h po a e Smith, cf 5 0 1 2 0 0 Folger, 2b 5 1 1 2 3 0 Neal, 3b 5 1 1 0 5 2 Johnson, 1b 5 1 2 9 0 0 Ormond, cf 5 1 1 0 0 0 Turner, ss 5 1 1 2 3 0 Spikes, lf 5 4 1 2 0 1 Dempster, rf 4 1 1 0 0 0 Totals 36 9 12 24 12 3

Davidson: ab r h po a e Erwin, M., 2b 4 0 1 3 4 0 Erwin, S., cf 4 0 1 2 0 0 Freeman, 3b 4 0 0 2 1 2 Crawford, 1b 4 0 0 12 1 1 McMillan, c 4 0 0 4 1 1

ATHLETIC NEWS

Famous Wildcat Athletes

HUGH MORTON GREY D** Football. D***Track

In the front rank of Davidson football and track stars is “Wooly” Grey, of the class of '18. After coaching two years at Bailey Military Academy he returned to Davidson as football mentor and now holds the position of Head Coach at his Alma Mater. Playing for three years on the famous Wildcat teams which held Georgia Tech to 9-0, 21-7, and 32-10 scores, he gained a reputation throughout the South as one of the greatest guards in the game, winning an All-Southern berth, and being mentioned for All-American honors in 1917. The Washington Times, commenting on the fact that the Wildcats were the only team to score on Georgia Tech, the strongest team in the country, says: “Three players stand out in little Davidson’s wonderfully successful campaign on the 1917 gridiron, “Buck” Flowers, George King and Hugh “Wooly” Grey who plays offensive guard and defensive center. Grey is 21 years old, five feet nine inches in height and weighs 183 pounds, being the biggest player on the eleven and the only third year man in uniform. But Grey is fast, being a 10.5 seconds man on the track. He is also an exceptionally good punter, and his ruggedness keeps him always in the line-up.” Wooly ended his gridiron career in a blaze of glory in the Turkey Day fracas with Clemson which Davidson won 21-0. Playing a great game in the line he grabbed up a Tiger fumble and raced 15 yards to a touchdown. “Wooly” represented the Wildcat track teams for four years in the weight events, hurling the discus and putting the shot. In six meets he made the enviable record of five first places and one second in both the discus and the shot and holds the college record in both events.

INTEREST DISPLAYED OVER COMING GOLF TOURNAMENT

During the past few weeks the golf course has been a big attraction to the students, and almost any clear afternoon a large number may be seen engaging in this sport. Renewed interest has been manifested, probably more than in any previous year, and it looks as if golf is rapidly advancing to a first place among sports at Davidson. Numerous improvements have been made, and the Golf Club has arranged to keep the course in good condition all Spring. The spring tournament is to be held at an early date, and those interested are expected to participate. The preliminaries are being played this week to classify the contestants into one of the three flights. The four highest in the first flight will be chosen to represent the college in the intercollegiate tournament to be held sometime during May.

R. O. T. C. NOTES.

Major Hearn, assisted by the line officers and cadet officers, has nearly completed his preparations for the sham battles that will be fought soon. On April 20th, Company A will defend Cemetery Ridge and the other three companies making up a battalion will attack. On the three following Thursdays the Ridge will be defended by the three other companies in turn, and the battalion made up of the other three companies will attack.

As the battles will take up two periods on Thursday, drill will be omitted on the following Friday and Saturday of each week in which the battles will be fought.

The Juniors who have been studying the taking down and assembling of machine guns have completed this work. They are now studying the process of indirect fire, that is, firing at objects that are not visible. The next rifle match which will be fired Saturday, will be with Mississippi A. and M. Mississippi is reported to have a good team and will probably give the Davidson men a good run for their money.

Mrs. John Calhoun, Misses Jean and Lula Calhoun, and Mr. Frank Calhoun, of Cornwall, Conn., are visitors at the home of Miss Ellenwood.

NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

Union Theological Seminary Richmond, Virginia W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL. D., President

Oldest Theological Seminary in the Southern states. Young as the youngest in its progressive methods. A Theological Seminary that makes preachers. 42% of present student body from Davidson College. Catalogue and information upon request.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. A. L. Faul, Mgr. Phone 902