THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1922.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

Getting out jokes once a week is no picnic. If I print jokes they say I am silly. If I
don’t they say I’m serious. If I put in original matter, they say it lacks variety. If I copy anything
from other papers, they say I’m too lazy to write. If I don’t go to church, they say I’m a
heathen; if I do they say I’m a hypocrite. If I stay in my room I ought to be out
hunting some jokes. If I hunt for jokes I ought to be studying. If I wear old clothes, I’m sloven;
if I wear new ones they’re not paid for. What am I to do? Like as not someone will say
I swiped this from an exchange. So I did!

Night Time.
He stood before the mirror
With his eyes closed very tight,
Trying to see just how he looked
When fast asleep at night.

At the Infirmary.
Dr. McConnell—You cough easier this morning.
Joe Rice—Well, I ought to, I’ve been practicing all night.

Much Mixed Up.
While Bob McLeod was in Charlotte the other day he walked into Kress’ and asked the music clerk for “Chilli
Beans.” The clerk replied with outraged dignity, “This isn’t a grocery store, young fellow.”

Fooled Again.
Fresh Hays saw an ad reading: “Send 10c for a handsome engraved picture of George Washington.” So he bit and
received a two-cent postage stamp.

On Class.
Doctor—What was the greatest reign in history?
Zeb—“Why, I guess that was the forty day and forty night affair.”

A Bird’s-Eye View.
Jim—“Here’s a snapshot of my girl at the beach.”
Jam—“Snapshot! Boy, I’d call that an exposure.”

Find the Point.
Freshman in Class—“What’s the joke?”
Professor—“Well, I have lots of them in front of me.”

As It Happened.
“The atom,” said the Chem. Prof. to Thrower, “Onions. Your knowledge of chemistry.”

He—“I can hold my breath for two minutes.”
She—“You don’t say—and it’s pretty strong tonight, too.”

Fay Fiend.
Soph—“Which is correct, a herd of camels or a drove of camels?”
Fresh—“I thought they always came in packs.”

Two-faced.
She—“I got my complexion from my father.”
He—“Is he a druggist?”

Visitor—“Does Mr.—, a student, live here?”
Landlady—“Yes, Mr. Lowry lives here, but I thought he was a night-watchman.”

She—“The men I kiss are only my brothers.”
He—“What fraternity do you belong to?”

“A Fit.”
There was a young tea hound named Doubles,
With his girls he always had troubles.
They say that one day
His girl sent him away,
For she found he was just blowing bubbles.

MAKE A FRIEND
“Friends may come and friends may go, but a true friend is with you forever.” I don’t know who said
that, but I do know where it will apply. A fellow said to me, the other day, as we were
discussing certain business men, “I feel like an old friend in some places in which I have been only a
few times, and like a stranger in others where I have been many times.” To illustrate his point he related
this incident: “I have only been in Ed. Mellon’s a few times, but I feel as if I had patronized
that store all my life. The first time I went there the clerk treated me as an individual, a personality
and not as merely one of the many animals which he was, by necessity, forced to meet in the course
of his day’s work. He learned, in the course of our conversation, that I was from Davidson. He asked how
long I had been there; how I liked the school; where my home was, and various other questions. These questions
were not asked in an inquisitive manner. It was evident that...| The man was interested in me. The sec- |
a WONG CACC GLANCING NGA ISIS GOON GNAWING GANGAL OWO WG WOOO FELLOWS! GET YOUR SPRING SUIT TRAYMORE IS COMING
WHEN? FRIDAY and SATURDAY, JANUARY 13th. & 14th. WHERE? No. 4 Ga. “WHY? ~~ TO SHOW YOU A SNAPPY LINE
OF SPRING GOODS, AT REASONABLE PRICES ~ TRAYMORE TAILORING CO. (COME AND SEE) Orders taken NOW. Goods delivered when you
DESIRE. HUNTER & SYDENSTRICKER Agts. UOTE NATO TO TO VAAN O WOO NTO TOMTOM OOO TOTO VITO Ma ITO Ia
TOO aVIVONiTa ITO NIVO Ta Ive e Iveta iveivanirexty

The second time I went to Charlotte I was interested to know whether or not this clerk would remember me.
To satisfy myself on this, I went into the store and into this clerk’s particular department. He called me by
name, shook hands with me and asked about a certain incident which had happened recently in my hometown. That, of
course, is an illustration of scientific salesmanship; but it is infinitely more than that. This fellow has a friend on
the sales force at Ed Mellons, a man with whom he feels free to talk. You know what that means
to you when you want a suit, an overcoat, a pair of shoes, or a hat. If you are dealing
with a stranger you often take an article which you do not like, rather than seem hard to please. On
the other hand, if you are dealing with a friend, you keep looking until you locate just what you want.
Then you have an article that will be a constant source of pleasure to you. When in Charlotte make Mellons
your headquarters; let them know who you are and where you are from. They are interested in you, first because
you are you, and second because you are from Davidson. Ady.

The Misses Shumaker entertained the Methodist Missionary Society last Tuesday.

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, — Charlotte, N. C.

Get Your Clothes Cleaned
The South’s largest Exclusive Cleaners and Dyers
See their agent: W. Yonan
12 Chambers
The Ben Vonde Co.
The best Dyers in the South

What Is a Vacuum Furnace?
In an ordinary furnace materials burn or combine with the oxygen of the air. Melt zinc, cadmium, or lead in
an ordinary furnace and a scum of “dross” appears, an impurity formed by the oxygen. You see it in the
lead pots that plumbers use. In a vacuum furnace, on the contrary, the air is pumped out so that the
heated object cannot combine with oxygen. Therefore in the vacuum furnace impurities are not formed. Clearly, the chemical processes that
take place in the two types are different, and the difference is important. Copper, for instance, if impure, loses in
electrical conductivity. Vacuum-furnace copper is pure. So the vacuum furnace has opened up a whole new world of chemical investigation.
The Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company have been exploring this new world solely to find out the possibilities
under a new series of conditions. Yet there have followed practical results highly important to industry. The absence of oxidation,
for instance, has enabled chemists to combine metals to form new alloys heretofore impossible. Indeed, the vacuum furnace has stimulated
the study of metallurgical processes and has become indispensable to chemists responsible for the production of metals in quantities. And
this is the result of scientific research. Discover new facts, add to the sum total of human knowledge, and sooner
or later, in many unexpected ways, practical results will follow.

General Electric Company
Schenectady, N. Y. 95-454HD
