Furman - then Basket Ball! THE DAVIDSONIAN (FIGHT FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON) Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER
23, 1922 No. 10

ROARING EXTRAVAGANZA OF REAL MINSTRELSY TO BE FEATURE ATTRACTION OF SENIOR WEEK

Cast of Thirty Men Are Under Training of Professor E. J. Erwin

JAZZ, JOY AND JOKES

Sultan of Sarawak Will Prove Great Aftermath for Turkey Day Celebration

By H. M. WHITE

The SULTAN OF SARAWAK, the result of unstinted labor and originality on the part of the Wildcat Minstrels, generously abetted
by Professor Erwin, when rendered in Shearer Hall Saturday night, December 2nd, will be unanimously acclaimed by all present to
be the most stupendous achievement of mirthful extravagance ever staged within the precincts of Davidson College. This unique performance will
be as great a shock to the poor old stage in Shearer Hall, as the smooth pebble was to the
unsuspecting head of Goliath, who is said to have murmured as he breathed his last: “Such a thing never entered
my head before.” It is hoped that the effect upon the audience will be slightly milder. Some have even been
so radical in their convictions as to express their willingness to wager that 50 per cent of the audience will
survive the performance, but others of saner judgment state that if as many as two or three escape violent death
by convulsions resulting from excessive laughter, and live to tell the tale, future generations will indeed be fortunate.

It may be of interest to some who have not studied Geography since the most recent books on that subject
were published, to know that Sarawak is a country located in that romantic tropic archipelago, noted for coco-nuts, hula hula
trees, and missionary stews, where the inhabitants find their chief amusements in setting traps for wild women to replenish the
Sultan’s harem, and dancing in the moonlight to the rhythmical cadence of the skull tattoo—in other words, Borneo. This country
may not now have a Sultan, and possibly was not represented in the Peace Conference, but after the visit of
the Wildcat Minstrels the Sultan of Sarawak will take his place as one of the great monarchs of the world.

This performance will be an affair which, aside from its appeal to everybody in general, because of its genuine humorous
and musical merits, together with its unique novelties, will be of particular interest to the student body and any who
may be personally acquainted with members of the Dramatic Club and orchestra. Those who have friends in these organizations will
see them at their best, and will be in no wise disappointed. Both the acting and the music will be
of a high order, and though of purely local talent would do honor to many far more famous stages. There
will be an elaborate display of scenery, much of it prepared specially for the occasion, and costumes of many colors
will not be lacking.

The cast, given in order of first appearance, is as follows:
R. L. McLeod
E. T. Woolfolk
A. V. Gibson
A. M. Martin
J. B. Sloan
W. T. Jones
C. V. Brown
W. R. Brown
C. D. Regan
W. I. Howell
F. R. Montgomery
G. D. Rogers

Royal Musicians—J. R. Earnest, L. D. (Continued on page 8)

FOUR UNION SEMINARY MEN SPEAK AT VESPER SERVICE

Schenck, Patterson, Wood and Womeldorf Deliver Inspiring Messages

Louis Schenck, Patterson, Russell Wood, and Womeldorf, all of whom are students at Union Theological Seminary, were the speakers at
the Y. M. C. A. Vesper service Sunday evening. Buck Currie presided over the meeting, while Wallace Purdy played the
piano and White accompanied on the violin. In introducing the speakers, Buck Currie spoke of the great good that always
accompanies the visit of the men from Union Seminary. Of the four speakers, Louis Schenck and Russell Wood are old
Davidson men, the former being of the class of ‘21, while Mr. Wood was a member of the class of
‘18. Patterson, who is a graduate of Washington and Lee, has two brothers at Davidson, who are preparing for Christian
service.

Schenck told of the great joy of having dedicated his life to God as a Minister of the Gospel. He
said in part: “Life means Christ to me. There is the joy which comes through the way of the cross.
I love Christ because of the Cross. I am glad I have taken Christ, and have put my life into
service for Him. “All of us like sheep have turned away, we have turned each one to his own way,
and the Lord has laid on Him the iniquity of us all. In Christ there is the cry of victory.
Can we forsake Him?” Schenck concluded his address by calling to mind the great need for ministers of the gospel,
both at home and abroad. He cited the fact that today there is a call for 200 missionaries in Africa
alone. “Souls are dying who have not had the opportunity to hear of Christ. Jesus holds outstretched hands to us,
and there is a glorious part for us,” Schenck concluded.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE PRELIMINARY IS HELD

Four Societies Contesting for Upper Class Honor

The various teams for the Junior-Senior debate have already been selected and by the time this issue of the Davidsonian
appears the semi-finals will have taken place. The finals, in which the winners of the first contest will contend, will
probably take place sometime after Senior Week. The subject for the debate is: Resolved, That the United States government should
adopt the principles of the Kansas Industrial Court Law in the regulation of relations between Labor and Capital.

The preliminaries of the Pandemics took place on Wednesday, November 15. Five men, C. F. Wildman, J. H. Davis, D.
B. Walthall, A. P. Hudgin and John Grey contended for places. The first three were selected for the team, with
Hudgins as alternate. The Eu team, which was selected some time ago, is composed of the following men: L. D.
Elkins, R. H. Smith and Henry Morris. The representatives of the Phi are Joe Baldwin, Paul Story and W. P.
Brown, while Wiggs Bradford, Angus McBryde and Guy Morrow will uphold the honor of the Metrophilians.

STUDENTS AID IN DAVIDSON CAMPAIGN IN QUEEN CITY

One Hundred Leading Men Work for Honor of Alma Mater

By J. A. LAKE,

Last Friday Davidson College students were called upon to put across a thing that they had never before attempted. They
did it. The $100,000 campaign in Charlotte, a part of the $600,000 campaign to put an even finer and nobler
building in the place of old Chambers was lagging, and the campaign committee decided that Davidson spirit would give the
whole movement an impetus. Since Davidson spirit is embodied in Davidson students, 100 of them were excused from classes on
November 17th, and were told to scratch every loose shekel in Charlotte into the campaign coffers. Leaving Davidson at about
7 o'clock, the 100 campaigners arrived in Charlotte about 8. With the band leading the procession they marched down the
streets to the Chamber of Commerce building, where breakfast was served. Mr. Lockhart, director of the campaign, gave the crowd
final instructions, and the campaign was on. An announcement had been made that the team which should secure $500 or
more, would receive round-trip tickets for the Thanksgiving holidays, and those securing $250 or over, one-way tickets. When breakfast was
over, the campaigners started off with enthusiasm enough to clean up anything. As time went on and men increased, money
began to come in according to the luck of each pair in having drawn a wealthy, mediocre or comparatively poor
district to work. Some of those interviewed had subscribed, but theTalks of the students were, in a good many cases,
round trip tickets to Greenville, S.C., Furman game; by, abilities as salesmen irresistible, and more was forthcoming. Sometimes an emphatic
and discouraging “no” was received, but it was not because of lack of persuasion. Sometimes, after having patiently explained the
knowledge about the purposes and meaning of the campaign, and just as the campaigners were standing in expectation of a
signature on a pledge, the person addressed would kindly volunteer the information that they had “already subscribed.” However, one excuse
never downed a salesman.

(Continued on page 4)

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
7 p.m.—Phi Society.
7 p.m.—Eumenean Society.

FRIDAY
7:30—Fresh-Junior basketball.

SATURDAY
7:30—Moving pictures—“The Old Homestead.”

SUNDAY
10 a.m.—Volunteer Band.
1 p.m.—C.E. Training class.
1:45 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
3:50 p.m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper service.

MONDAY
Pandemic Society.
Bible class leaders meeting.

TUESDAY
6:45 p.m.—Metrophilian Society.
9 p.m.—Bible classes.

WEDNESDAY
7 p.m.—Eu Freshman Society.
7:30 p.m.—Pictures at gym.
9 p.m.—Bible classes.

THURSDAY
Turkey Day.

WILDCATS TRAVEL AERIAL ROUTE TO CROSS BLUE AND WHITE'S GOAL IN FINAL PERIOD

WILDCAT HORDES INVADE THE QUEEN CITY IN FULL FORCE

Specially Equipped Pullmans Offer Rare Accommodations for Pilgrimage

As soon as classes had adjourned last Saturday and dinners had been gulped down, all those fortunate enough to possess
that which is necessary to all such undertakings hastened to Mr. Abernethy’s railroad to board the awaiting “Pullmans” which were
to bear them unto the Queen City. The “Pullmans” as usual, were in A-1 condition, that is to say, not
fit to ride in. However, when all were on board, even down to a Fresh who thought it was to
be a free ride, and upon being enlightened, had to buy a ticket, the wheels began to turn and the
Wildcat special was on its way.

As soon as Davidson had faded from view and the last signs of the terminal were gone, the “Pullman” began
to show the application of someone's ability along the line of extreme decorating, and it was a neat and workmanlike
job indeed. The efforts of these decorators were greatly appreciated by all those viewing their handiwork and they deserve honorable
mention.

The Wildcat crew landed on the shores of Queen Charlotte and immediately made it known to all those with the
sense of hearing. After blocking the traffic until the cops got peeved, the gang dispersed and hied themselves hither to
the Field of Wearn. John Simpson, after frenzied efforts on behalf of George Dupuy, arrived just in time to lead
the band to victory.

After the game and supper, everybody of course made a rush for Keith’s with Baldy Bostick and Bevo Davis running
a mean interference. Buchanan played a fine game at guard also and the thin Red line held them out in
order that Paul might put his view on “Rich Men’s Wives,” but having to leave to catch the Jaybirdville special,
went to the box office to get his money back but in vain. She had departed, and Paul plodded sadly
onward to the station, only to find that the train would not leave for a half hour. Everybody arrived safely
at Jaybirdsville at about 12:30, and it is said that Snag Bailey was greatly troubled because he had traveled on
Sunday.

FAMOUS WOMAN ORATOR WILL ADDRESS A LOCAL AUDIENCE

Students Will Hear Address on “New Arabian Nights”

Davidson is soon to have the privilege of hearing Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, who is considered to be the best
speaker of her sex on the American platform today. She has been secured by Doctor Lingle, chairman of the college
platform committee, to speak on the subject, “Modern Arabian Knights,” on Tuesday evening, December 12, in Shearer Hall. Mrs. Owen
is the wife of Major Reginald Owen, of the British army, and daughter of America’s great Commoner, William Jennings Bryan.
Besides being a woman of executive ability, having held important positions in relief work during the war, she has traveled
extensively, spending three years in London, three years in the West Indies, three years in Egypt, and then journeying around
the world. She is a pleasing and convincing speaker, inheriting much of her distinguished father’s oratorical gifts, and she has
been a distinct success as a lecturer.

Newey Davis Wales Pass From Hendrix and Garners Lone Tally

OVER 7,500 SPECTATORS

Coach Grey’s Men Fight Valiantly but Fail to Check Carolina Backs

The Davidson Wildcats, fighting every minute, made a game attempt to stop the victorious rush of Bill Fetzer’s North Carolina
eleven and failed. The Blue and White machine, still undefeated by a Southern eleven this season, battered its way to
a hard-earned 20 to 6 victory.

The Davidson touchdown, made by Nappy Davis on a pass from Hendrix, won for the scrapping Presbyterians the biggest ovation
of the day. It was the last in a string of five consecutive passes that carried the ball 72 yards.
The play was beautiful and was pronounced by even the Charlotte police to be the most spectacular of the day.

The Tar Heels had a faster, more powerful and better-coached team than the Wildcats. Despite the stubborn resistance they encountered,
their big backs crashed through the line for many gains. The Red and Black relied mainly on the forward pass
and in this branch of play alone they surpassed the Carolinians. And even in this department of play the Chapel
Hill team showed its ability by intercepting five of the 16 passes attempted by the Presbyterians.

The contest was the 18th between the two institutions and when Davis stepped over that last white line, he turned
a trick that no eleven warriors of the Red and Black had been able to do before him. The defeat,
one of the worst ever suffered at the hands of the Tar Heels, was administered by what is generally considered
the best team that ever came out of Chapel Hill.

Probably the outstanding feature of Carolina’s play was her wonderful interference. Time and time again they made long gains because
of the almost impregnable wall of interference. It was the same system that Coach Bill Fetzer used so effectively while
at Davidson. Elias Faison seemed to be the only Wildcat able to break through and get his man.

The wing men again showed themselves to be the class of the team and drew the brightest of the spotlight’s
rays. Davis was one of the best ground gainers for the Wildcats, gathering in many passes for long gains. His
touchdown, made on a Davidson pass, saved the team from a shut-out. Faison did his best work on defense, smashing
through and getting the Carolina runner behind the line several times. The Tar Heel team soon found that it was
useless to try to get around him and during the last half they didn’t even attempt to do so.

In the backfield, Hendrix and Shepherd proved to be the outstanding stars. Despite the fact that several of his tosses
were intercepted, Hendrix’s passing was of a high order. He also ran his team in great style. Shepherd proved to
be the Wildcats’ most consistent ground gainer. This Winston-Salem lad who always plays his best against Carolina, turned in half
of his team’s gains from scrimmage and got off some nice punts for as much as 50 yards.

Red Johnston, as usual, played a startling game for Carolina. The sorrel-topped lad showed an almost uncanny ability to follow
his interference. He made several long runs around the ends and could always be counted on for a few yards
through the line. Sparrow also played a great game for Carolina.

(Continued on page 8)

SENIOR SPEAKING — THANKSGIVING — A FULL WEEK
