THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

EUMANEAN SOCIETY HAS FIRST SMOKER OF YEAR

A smoker was enjoyed by the members of the Eumanean Literary Society on Tuesday, November 28th. Upon their arrival, the members found two tables well filled with apples, oranges, nuts, candy, and coca-colas. Of these, the assembly made short work, and those who desired them enjoyed the smokes. Hugh Smith, chairman of the entertainment committee, called the house to order, and, after a few remarks, turned the meeting over to Dunbar Ogden, president of the society. A very humorous extemporaneous debate was enjoyed, the query being, Resolved, That Arkansas is a better state than Florida. Furgerson Martin of the Freshman class upheld the affirmative, while on the negative, P. H. Biddle strove nobly. The judges were unable to render a decision.

LOVE OF MODERN GIRLS DISCUSSED BY PHIS

Can the modern girl love? M. P. Calhoun says she cannot. At least, he told the Phi Society so last Thursday night. Calhoun, however, was speaking of the modern girl in general, and not of our fair maids of the South, for he said: “They have so many distractions to prevent them from loving as they used to. Besides the regime of housekeeping, they have politics and athletics which occupy their minds and divide their attention. So, after all, they have little time to think of the small amount of action which men think is their just due.” The debate on the K. K. K. movement, upheld on the affirmative by J. E. Holtzhouser and W. Glenn Houck and on the negative by R. H. Browne and H. M. Wells, showed good preparation and well-organized thought. An oration by A. V. Gibson, “The Face of an Ox,” and a declamation by C. E. Houston concluded the last act.

SIGMA UPSILON STUDIES THE ONE-ACT PLAY

Last Tuesday night, December 5th, Sigma Upsilon held a meeting in the Beta hall. A very interesting program was arranged. Harry Russell started the program by reading a review of “Trifles,” by Susan Glaspell. Next, H. M. Morris gave a review of O'Neil’s “The Emperor Jones,” which is one of the most powerful of recent American plays. Special attention and interest were given to Charles H. Gilpin, the American negro who played the title role in the New York production. Following this number, W. S. Buchanan reviewed Yeats’ “The Hands of Heart's Desire,” a whimsical Irish play which was very interesting and delightful. As their regular work, the club is continuing its study of the play, with special attention and study of the one-act play. Every member of the club is showing much interest, which gives support and help to the work and makes it worthwhile. It is hoped that at some time the club will give some of their work to the public.

PANDEINICS ENJOY REPORT OF TRAVELERS

Additions to the regular program made the Pandeinic Literary Society meeting of December 5th one of peculiar interest. It so happened that two of the newer members of this society had spent a part of last summer in the Old Dominion State. The happy thought occurred to someone that these men might tell the society of their experiences and impressions during their visit. The first to speak, Mr. Franklin, having evidently been favorably impressed, spoke of the beauties of hill and vale, road and field. The other, Mr. Deck, having received a more cordial reception, related in a thrilling way his experience with a .44 caliber. D. W. Beathea and S. W. Moore upheld the affirmative in the regular debate, Resolved, That the policy of the Ku Klux Klan is opposed to the principles of Americanism. The supporters of the negative were both absent, so the president appointed C. A. Young and A. P. Hudgins as extemporaneous speakers. The two men later proved themselves orators of note by winning the decision of the judges. As the subject of his oration, P. J. Steele chose the broad “Race Problem.” H. L. gave a short but conclusive summary.

FITTS IS WINNER OF PHI DECLAIMER’S MEDAL

Speaking in Phi Hall, Monday, December 4th, W. H. Fitts, of the Freshman class, won, for this year, the declaimer’s medal awarded each year by the Phi Society to the Freshman or Sophomore in that society delivering the best declamation. Fitts’ rendition of The Shooting of Dan McGrew gave him the judge’s decision over seven other speakers of no mean ability. It was a closely fought contest and the judges, Doctor Porter, Doctor Richards, and Professor Wagner, found it no easy matter to pick the winner. The seven other contestants and their speeches are as follows: A. L. Patterson, The Confederate Dead; C. E. Houston, The Greatness of the Poet; J. C. Barrington, The Duty of the South to the Country Boy; J. A. Barron, The Unknown Speaker; R. J. Smith, The New South; W. J. Calhoun, The Art of Optimism; and C. C. McMillan, The Rider of the Black Horse.

EUMANEANS DENOUNCE WORK OF KU KLUX KLAN

The regular meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society was held last Thursday. Owing to the absence of the president, the house appointed Mr. Biddle to fill the vacancy for the evening. The program was reversed and the orations and declamation were given before the debate took place. Wallace Purdy rendered a well-delivered declamation and Sharpe and Wildman both gave the society something pleasurable and profitable in the line of orations. The debate, Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan in its avowed principles and in its actions is hostile to the spirit of Americanism, was interesting. The affirmative was upheld by Moomaw and Freeland, while R. R. Jones and Lake valiantly opposed them. The house was in favor of the negative and the judges voted two to one the same way.

METROPHILIANS ENJOY

The Metrophilian Literary Society held one of its most interesting meetings last Tuesday night at 6:45. The subject for regular debate was, Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan in its avowed principle and in its conduct is hostile to the first principle of Americanism. Singletary and Fenton upheld the affirmative against H. D. Brown and O. P. Mathews on the negative. The judges' decision was unanimously for the affirmative. The subject for extemporaneous debate was, Resolved, That Davidson College should give annually one hundred dollars to defray expenses of the debating team. J. M. Carr upheld the affirmative, and G. M. Hodgin the negative. The decision of the judges was two to one for the affirmative. A very interesting oration was given by C. E. Hodgin, on “Busy Men.”

DELTA PI KAPPA PLANS POLICY OF EXTENSION

The Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity met in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall last Friday night to discuss its plans and policies for the remainder of the college year. The fraternity is embarking upon a policy of extension and this necessarily involves a great deal of work and discussion. In addition to these plans for extension, the fraternity has many plans for local affairs. One of these is the securing of men, well versed in newspaper work, to speak here on various phases of this wonderful field of endeavor. The first of these lectures will be held sometime about the first of February. The exact date is not yet decided upon. The fraternity is not yet ready to give out any information in regard to the success of its extension policy beyond the statement that the report of the committee in charge was very satisfactory. After Christmas, the fraternity will start upon a study of the lives of various journalists in America, who have helped to make the American newspaper what it is today. This is in accordance with one of the aims of the order which is to stimulate and maintain the interest of its members in everything pertaining to the modern newspaper.

WELL PLANNED PROGRAM

All the speakers showed good preparation and presented their points well.

LIBRARY NOTES

Among the books recently added to the Library are the following which may be of interest to Davidson students: For lovers of nature, there is “The Minds and Manners of Wild Animals,” by William T. Hornaday, Sc. D., A. M. It is a full and interesting account of how the wild creatures think and act, written from the personal observation of the author. Also, there is “Tramping with a Poet in the Rockies,” by Stephen Graham. The poet in this case happens...To be Vachel Lindsay, who is probably known to many of the student body as a Davidson alumnus. Then, for the lovers of human nature, there are two books—"William de Morgan and His Wife,” by A. M. W. Stirling, and “Working With the Working Woman,” by Cornelia Stratton Parker. The former is the story of a great artist and his artist wife, of whom Sir Edward Poynter said one day as they left his beautiful garden, “There go two of the rarest spirits of the age;” the latter is the personal story of the life of the American working woman with its humor and its pathos by Connie Parker who went, herself, to work with them so as to get the true picture. “The Turn of the Tide,” by Jennings C. Wise, is the story of the American operations at Chateau Thierry and the American soldiers’ share in turning the tide toward victory. In fiction, there are the two books “Dwellers in Arcady,” the story of an abandoned farm by Albert Bigelow Paine, and “The Glimpse of the Moon,” by Edith Wharton.

D. CHAMBERS CAMPAIGN
(Continued from Page 1)

That the campaign will be brought to a successful close in a short time. Nearly a hundred churches have reached their quotas and other churches are subscribing their allotments every day. Subscriptions are coming in at the rate of $10,000 or $15,000 a week. L. Richardson, of Greensboro, president of the Alumni Association, will send, sometime this week, a letter to every alumnus of Davidson urging the liberal subscribing to this fund which is destined to mean so much to the future welfare and efficiency of Davidson College. The campaign in Charlotte is progressing nicely. The churches and the people of that city realizing the needs of Davidson, are subscribing liberally to the campaign. The student body of Davidson is keenly interested in the success of this campaign, as can be attested by their liberal subscriptions which, with those of the faculty, amounted to over $25,000. A memorial classroom in the new Chambers building in memory of Miss Virginia C. Gilmer has been pledged by the Ladies’ Auxiliary of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, also a room for Biblical instruction has been pledged by R. A. Dunn, of Charlotte. Mr. Dunn has been the teacher of the Men's Bible Class at the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte for many years and has also served as trustee of Davidson. He, better than most of the other executives, realized the condition of Davidson, owing to his long, intimate interest in the affairs of the college. Much interest and sympathy has been displayed by the various churches in the raising of this fund. The Little Joe Church of the Barium Springs Orphanage was the first to raise its quota and the other churches of the State are pouring in without interruption. Concord reached its quota of $10,000 in less than three hours, and liberally oversubscribed that amount. The alumni have displayed an active interest in the campaign and their contributions have counted heavily in the total to date. The students of the college over-subscribed their quota as did the faculty. The lower classmen realize what the new Chambers building will be for them and succeeding generations, and all the students were unwilling to let a chance like this pass without having some part in the reconstruction of the noble old building that was destroyed by fire last year. The campaign will be proportioned between the rebuilding of the Chambers building and the increasing of the endowment fund of the college. There will be 30 classrooms in the proposed structure and two have been provided for by the gifts of parties previously mentioned. Tablets will be erected on the walls of these classrooms on which will be placed the names of the donors. “The outlook for the successful closing of the campaign is bright,” says Mr. Lockhart. With the combined efforts of the students, the churches, the alumni and the public, the new Chambers building will rise Phoenix-like from the ashes of the old, and the manifold accomplishments of Davidson College will be carried on throughout the future years.

WELL BALANCED SCHEDULE
(Continued from Page 1)

Tornado has been met every year since 1915. However, the action has been deemed advisable by the powers that be. Three new teams may be played next fall. Efforts are being made to arrange dates with Washington and Lee, Clemson and Sewanee. The Virginia school was last played in ’19 and ’20, the Wildcats copping a 7-0 cake in the former year, but the Generals coming back with two field goals and a 6-0 victory the next fall. The Lexington lads always put out a strong team and they will prove worthy foes for the Red and Black. Clemson, formerly Davidson's greatest rival, has not been on the Wildcats’ gridiron schedule since the Doc Stewart regime began in the South Carolina school three years ago. Many memorable battles have been waged between the Tiger and the Wildcat, and all the old-timers are hoping that next year will witness a renewal of the struggle that began a quarter of a century ago. Sewanee, the school that puts out the fighting teams that are known and respected throughout the South, has never been pitted against a Davidson eleven. Both schools are alike in that they rely a great deal on their fighting spirit! The prospects are bright for a game with the Tennessee eleven, and it is earnestly hoped that the game can be arranged. Seven of the teams played this year retain their places for next year. Elon, P. C., Wake Forest, Trinity, V. P. I., State, and Carolina will all be met again next fall. Trinity wins the Turkey Day assignment in Charlotte and a great game is assured. The other teams will be met on dates that correspond roughly to those of this year. Negotiations are also being carried on with Wofford, Furman and Richmond.

SOPH QUINTET BEATEN
(Continued from Page 2)

Moore and Marsh featured for the Moore pushed Staley hard as high point man, while Marsh did effective work in passing and shooting. Dwight Chalmers, known to many Davidson men as captain of the Wildcat basketball quintet in ’20, was given a chance in the last few minutes of play. This game ended the Soph schedule for the season, and the defeat casts no reflection upon the splendid record made. The game Thursday night was the tenth, and represents the only contest in which the Sophs came out on the lower end. Not content with copping six inter-class games, they wrestled two victories from Concord, and one from Cornelius. The final count shows nine victories and one defeat, with 303 points to their credit, as against 159 for their opponents. The line-up and results follow:

CHARLOTTE Y (46) SOPHS (21)
Position
Marsh (8) Forward Mitchell (6)
Moore (12) Forward Staley (13)
Yates (10) Center Anderson
Cunningham Guard Boggs
Cuthbertson (4) Guard Koenig

Substitutes: Sophs—Morrison (2); Charlotte “Y”—Smith (6), Purser (4), Howell (2), W. Yates, Chalmers. Foul goals—Staley, 3 out of 10. Marsh, 0 out of 3. Moore, 0 out of 5. Smith, 4 out of 11. Referee—Smith-Peterson. Umpire, Fowle.