6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1922.

ALUMNI NEWS

FOUR MILLS BROTHERS ARE GRADUATES OF DAVIDSON

In more than one instance Davidson has seen four members of a family pass through her halls to graduation and on into the world to do service to mankind. One of these sets of four brothers is composed of W. H. Mills, ’92; L. T. Mills, ’94; J. E. Mills, ’96, and W. P. Mills, ’03.

W. H. Mills took the degree of Bachelor of Arts at Davidson in 1892. He has received the degree of B.D. from Columbia Theological Seminary (1897) and that of D.D. from the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. He has held pastorates in Virginia and North Carolina, at one time being pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Clemson College (1907-1917). He has gained eminent distinction in his knowledge of rural life. He was professor of Rural Sociology and a specialist in Rural Organization at Clemson College during the years of 1917-1921. He has also been Instructor in Rural Sociology and the Work of the Country Pastor at Columbia Theological Seminary and an instructor in charge of the Department of Rural Economics and Sociology, A. E. F. University, Beaune, France, during the war.

The second of these illustrious brothers is L. T. Mills, who received the A.B. degree at Davidson in 1894. He has received a B.L. degree from the University of South Carolina and is now practicing law in Camden, S. C. He is prominent in city and county public school administration and has done particularly noticeable work toward helping forward the negro schools of his county.

J. E. Mills graduated from Davidson with an A.B. degree in 1896 but returned to his Alma Mater two years later for an A.M. He holds a Ph.D. from Cornell. The line of work in which he has attained distinction has been chemistry. He has pursued special studies at Berlin and at Trinity College, Dublin. During the war he did important research work in chemical warfare. He was captain of the first Gas Regiment Chemical Warfare Service, A. E. F., in 1917-1918, and major in the first Gas Regiment, Chemical Warfare Service, 1918-1919. He has held the position of director of the department of research and development of chemical warfare at the Edgewood arsenal. He is author of numerous articles on vaporization and the chemistry of gases.

W. P. Mills has an A.B. from Davidson, an A.M. from the University of South Carolina, a B.D. from Columbia Theological Seminary and an M.A. from Oxford University, England. He was the Rhodes scholar from South Carolina in 1907-1910. After returning from England he became secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in the University of South Carolina, and remained in that position for two years. Since then he has done extensive Y. M. C. A. work, having been “Y” secretary in Nanking, China; Peking, China; Tokyo, Japan, and traveling Y. M. C. A. secretary among Chinese students in American Colleges. He was prominent in the China Famine Relief work. He is now Y. M. C. A. secretary in Hankow, China.

ALUMNI—WHAT ABOUT COMMENCEMENT?

Enterprising alumni are already making plans for commencement. Karl Sherrill, of Statesville, N. C., has sent notices to all the members of a reunion of the class of 1912. This year shows every promise of being a banner year in Davidson’s history. The enrollment is larger than any in the past and will hold the record for size for some years to come. Besides the usual graduation exercises the Senior class is planning many special features which will add to the attractiveness of the occasion. Some of these that are being considered are: a faculty versus the alumni baseball game, a carnival and a general parade. Then the ruins of old Chambers, so dear to the heart of every Davidsonian, would be a favorable location for a class reunion. There they could recall memories of the days of yore when Chambers was Davidson. After reminiscing there awhile they could go around and see the beginnings of the future greater Davidson. They could walk over to the new dormitory which will be well under way at that time, and to the new physical building right behind it with all the modern equipment of a good laboratory. If they are a trifle more eager to see changes they can walk a bit further and see the two new barracks, the beginning of the central heating plant, the class building on Concord street, the half-dozen—or more new professors’ houses, Louisiana dormitory, Smith’s apartments, and many other new additions. Thus they will see that Davidson is still functioning even though crippled a bit by the fire.

Class presidents, and others interested should stir up some pep and make this commencement an event to be remembered.

ALUMNUS CITED FOR WAR GALLANTRY

Robert S. Cochran, ex-1915, has been cited for war gallantry. The navy department has received and forwarded to him, a citation certificate awarded him by the commanding general of the Second Division of the American Expeditionary Force. The citation was given for gallantry whileserving with the United States Marine Corps expeditionary force as a member of the hospital corps. He held the rank of pharmacist’s mate and distinguished himself at the battle of St. Etienne.

HERE AND THERE.

C. E. Ingram, ex-1923, is attending the Atlanta Business College of Atlanta, Ga. W. B. Carr, ex-1923, and E. C. Hammond, ex-1924, are in the Commerce department of Georgia School of Technology of Atlanta, Ga. H. H. Tarleton, ex-1922, is now located in Charlotte, N. C.

S. T. McCloy, 1917, now at Oxford University, spent his six weeks of Christmas in Belgium and Germany. Karl Sherrill, of Statesville, N. C., is connected with the Statesville Flour Mills Co. Rev. J. R. McGregor, 1914, assisted in installing a new pastor at Menlo, Ga. His sermon on the Growth of Grace received favorable comment in the press. William Cowles, 1914, is taking postgraduate work in mathematics at Columbia University, in New York City. E. G. Clary, 1916, a senior at Union Seminary, has accepted a position as Evangelist for Wilson County with headquarters at Wilson, N. C. Rev. J. E. Thacker, D.D., 1890, recently held a three weeks’ revival at Wilson, N.C. A total of 105 conversions were made during the meeting. J. C. Peden, 1910, is now situated at 303 Palace Building, Tulsa, Okla. Fred L. Smyre, 1900, is a successful cotton manufacturer of Gastonia, N. C. Rev. W. R. Minter, D.D., 1892, has been appointed by the Synod of Texas on a committee to confer with the Presbyterian Church, U. S. A., with regards to the consolidation of education. Rev. D. M. McIver, 1888, recently transferred from Atlanta, Ga., to Bishopville, S.C. J. R. Boulware, 1921, is teaching chemistry in Greenbrier Military Academy, Greenbrier, W. Va.

Several of the professors spoke in various places on Sunday. Dr. Hood, at Lincolnton, Dr. Lingle at First Presbyterian Church in Concord, and Dr. Arbuckle at Shearer Community House. It was Davidson College Day in the Shearer Chautauqua and Dr. Arbuckle was assisted by six of the students.

These Two Photographs Represent an Installation of Undabestos at One of the South’s Largest Industrial Plants

February 22, 1922.

General Equipment Co.
Charlotte, N.C.

Gentlemen:

I beg to state that the photograph No. 1, herewith represents a main steam line which we installed to heat our mill No. 3. This was put in several years ago. Photograph No. 2 was taken while the snow was on the ground and will say that we are well pleased with the Undabestos which we used to insulate this steam pipe. As you can see the snow did not melt on the ground right over this pipe while it did melt a few feet away where we had placed a return line which was not insulated with any covering.

Yours truly,
GAFFNEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY
Superintendent.

Undabestos pipe covering (made from Asbestos Rock) is the most practical insulation known to science today for retaining the heat in underground steam mains. Hard, Non-Heat Conducting, Water Repellent.

GENERAL EQUIPMENT CO.
Realty Building

ROWAN COUNTY MEN PLAN TO GET MORE MEN TO DAVIDSON

The Rowan County boys took a step forward at a feed given last Saturday night. The club decided that it should have more boys from Rowan to come to Davidson next year. There are 15 now. The club has set its goal at twice that number. There will be approximately 100 boys to graduate in the high schools of the county this spring and they feel that there is no reason why Davidson cannot get at least 15 good boys from this number. The plan is to send each high school senior a Bulletin along with any literature Mr. Jackson can furnish, and write each one a letter encouraging him to come to Davidson. This letter was drawn up at the meeting. Preceding the business session there had been a sure-enough feed which prepared all for the undertaking at hand. The Rowan County Club hopes that other like organizations will join in the effort to bring men to Davidson.

WILDCATS HAVE GREAT SEASON
(Continued from page 1)

At Wake Forest, Wake Forest 27, D. C. 29.
At Elon, Elon 34, D. C. 30.
At Charlotte, Trinity 37, D. C. 32.
At Davidson, Elon 25, D. C. 53.
At Davidson, Guilford 45, D. C. 26.
At Clemson, Clemson 16, D. C. 32.
At Spartanburg, Wofford 25, D. C. 30.
At Davidson, Wake Forest 27, D. C. 36.

Total, Opponents, 344, D. C. 4.

SOLE SELLING AGENTS FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH
A wonderful sticking surface and 36 square inches of pure rubber. A substantial screw top box. A money back guarantee with every box. Retail everywhere for 50c.
J.S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.

Reprimine fla- ith Seat Smits w SPESER nt digestion, teeth and soothe mouth and