THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1922.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

Remarkable Remarks.

Socrates—“Gosh, all hemlock!”
Noah—“Two of a kind.”
Jonah—“Hope everything comes out all right.”
Eve—“I'll bite.”
Henry VIII—“Here’s where I get ahead of Anne Boleyn!”
Cleopatra—“Stung again!”
Samson—“I guess I brought down the house.”
Rebecca—“Well, well.”
St. Vitus—“On with the dance.”

The Pencil has made quite a few pointed remarks about the Sponge being soaked all day, and the Waste Basket
full also. The Scissors are cutting up, and the Paper Weight is trying to hold them down. The Mucilage is
sticking around to see the Stamps get a good licking in the morning. The Ink’s well but feels blue because
Bill is stuck on the File. The Calendar is expecting to get a month off and the Blotter is taking
it all in.

Methods.

Estimated reasons for the downfall of Junior Speaking guests.

Per cent Reason of Victims.
1. “Want to get away from the crowd” 11%
2. “I have some pictures I want to show you” 2%
3. “I want to talk to you” 3%
4. “Let’s go up to Shearer Hall” 25%
5. “Ever see the campus?” 15%
6. “How about a very late date” 17%

NOTES.
1. Old standby, used by Adam with Eve.
2. Works well with “old friends of the family.”
3. Always tried, fairly good.
4. Works on the blind sisters.
5. Used only by very brutal boys.

Novel Sensation for Junior Speaking.
Rise in time for lunch,
Retire before breakfast.
Recognize the chaperone,
Fall in love with someone else’s girl.

Members of the student body please remember during Junior Speaking:
1. A kiss works wonders.
2. Love is blind.
3. Beginners’ luck is the best luck.
4. It pays to advertise.
5. Work for the night is coming.
6. What you know won't hurt you.
7. He who hesitates is lost.

If Not—Why Not.

A Fresh Parade Speaking.
Of course of a new origin. Doc Brown and Sim Bryant of the Fresh class are dieting now for membership
in the Beauty Club.

My head is dizzy,
My eyes are getting sore,
That’s all for this issue,
There ain't any more.

Finis.

D.

WILDCAT BALL TOSSERS.
(Continued from page 2)

First Base: Hager
Second Base: Stacks
Shortstop: Covington
Third Base: Ranson
Left Field: Caldwell
Center Field: Stough
Right Field: Citric
Pitcher: Alexander, McPherson

Fresh—“Did you know Al was suing for a divorce?”
Soph—“Al who?”
Fresh—“Alimony.”

Traveling Some.

When you travel in a hurry you're “fast.”
When you're stationary you're “fast.”
When you dissipate you’re fast.
When you cut out eating you “fast.”

CORRECTED BASEBALL SCHEDULE FOR 1922

March 23—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 24—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 25—Erskine at Davidson.
March 30—Catawba at Davidson.
April 1—Trinity at Winston-Salem.
April 3—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 8—N. C. State at Charlotte.
April 11—U. of N. C. at Chapel Hill.
April 12—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 13—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 14—Elon at Elon.
April 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.
April 26—Furman at Greenville.
April 27—Clemson at Clemson.
April 28—U. of N. C., at (Pending).
May 6—Elon at Davidson.

D.

VOLUNTEER BAND HEARS OF THE GREENSBORO CONFERENCE

At the Volunteer Band last Sunday morning it was a great treat to hear reports from the Greensboro Conference. All
who were present at the meeting will testify that the delegates brought back some of the wonderful spirit of the
state meeting. Talks were given by various ones in the band, also by others, who are not volunteers, but who
are earnest supporters of the movement. Each of these talks bore testimony to the fact that this was a wonderfully
successful gathering of the State Volunteers.

Talking on the value of the conference, Guy Weeks told in an interesting manner how enjoyable it was to gather
at these meetings and mix and mingle with other volunteers, how important it is to get together and draw up
plans which can be promoted through the conference, and how, through the spirit of state conferences, weaker bands are strengthened.

Bitzer, in describing the spirit, said that this was distinctive above other conferences in that it was not only larger
but flooded with more of the volunteer spirit. “The Evangelization of the World in this Generation,” the motto of the
volunteer movement, was according to Baker most appealing to him. He also asserted that through such spirit and enthusiasm as
was shown in the conference the world would be reached in this generation.

Ray Doubles, who attended the conference, though not a volunteer, said he went to Greensboro to get that reconsecration which
he did not believe he could get elsewhere and to enjoy the spirit of the volunteer movement. In this, he
declared, he was by no means disappointed.

The greatest thing that Henry Patterson got out of the conference was the strengthening of his life purpose, besides realizing
more fully the reality of Christ through the spirit of prayer which pervaded the entire meeting. It was not so
much the speakers that he enjoyed, but the feeling that God spoke through them.

McBride asserted that the greatest impression which he received was the determined resolution of all to return to their respective
colleges and start anew to witness for Christ. Victor Hoye, in giving his impression, said that being a new volunteer,
he was surprised to find so many volunteers in the state. The spirit of prayer which gripped every volunteer, as
they gathered in prayer groups from time to time, was the greatest feature to him. The fires ofInterest and enthusiasm
were kindled anew by reason of the Greensboro Conference, and it is hoped that these fires will not burn low
during the coming year, but will burn more and more brightly on Davidson campus.

SIXTEEN MEN SELECTED.
(Continued from page 1)

The Pandemic Society resulted in the selection of W. A. Gamble, W. H. Moore, G. B. Sorrells, and J. H.
Grey to represent the society in the next round of Junior Speaking. The judges were Dr. J. M. Douglas and
Professors Fleagle and Erwin. Gamble’s speech presented in an instructive and eloquent manner America’s educational needs. The list of speakers
and subjects were as follows:

W. A. Gamble—About Face.
D. W. Bethea—The Man in the Street and the Allied Debt.
J. H. Davis—Better Than Riches.
W. H. Moore—A Call to the West.
G. B. Roberts—The Modern Girl.
G. B. Sorrels—Anglo-American Friendship.
G. E. Weeks—Out of the Desert.
C. F. Wildman—The Philosophy of Mathematics.
V. C. Hoye—A Menace to America.
J. H. Grey—To the God of Creed.

Eumenean.
In the Junior Speaking preliminaries held in the Eu Society last Monday night, “reps” were won by Z. A. Morris,
D. H. Ogden, R. F. Davidson, and H. H. Smith. The judging committee was composed of Dr. Grey, Major Hearn,
and Prof. A. Currie. The list of speakers and subjects was as follows:

P. H. Biddle—Educating the Red Man.
W. B. Dunlap—James Brice.
W. T. Elliott—The Sword of France.
T. L. Fraser—The Virtuous State.
E. Fewell—Injustice to the Farmer.
H. M. Morris—In the Path of the Camel.
Z. A. Morris—The New Love.
D. H. Ogden—The Great Fellowship.
J. Roddey—The True Aristocracy.
W. H. Sharp—Friendship.
R. F. Davidson—Safeguarding Security.
J. M. McCutchen—Cooperative Marketing in the South.
H. H. Smith—The Age of Internationalism.

Phi.
From the list of Phi Society speakers Monday night, Messrs. Baldwin, Johnson, Calhoun, and Gibson won “reps” in the Junior
Speaking preliminaries. The decision committee consisted of Professors Shewmake, Sentelle, and Woods. The speech of J. W. Baldwin was the
outstanding feature of the evening. In high terms, he recounted the glories of the Old North State, rich in her
history, scenery, opportunities, and illustrious men. The following is the list of the speakers and their subjects:

J. W. Baldwin—A Tribute to Her.
J. P. Booth—Dry Bones and the Living Spirit.
M. P. Calhoun—The Value of Obstacles.
A. V. Gibson—Secondary Education in America.
F. S. Johnson—The Influence of Calvinism.
R. M. McGirt—Americanization.
H. K. Russell—The Golden Age.
S. R. Sloan—When the Shoe Begins to Pinch.

Metrophilian.
In the Metrophilian Society, Messrs. Bernhardt, Kimsey, Thames, and Woods won the honors from a large field of speakers. The
speeches were all unusually good, and the decision committee, consisting of Professors Douglas, McConnell, and Currie, had a difficult task
in rendering a decision. The following is the list of the speakers and their subjects:

J. M. Adams—The North Carolinian.
J. D. Bernhardt—Davidson’s ‘Annus Mirabilis.’
J. F. Brawley—America Today.
R. P. Brown—Business and Education.
W. P. Kimsey—Mourning for Dead Ideas.
R. L. McLeod—Humor.
F. C. Thames—Arkansas.
R. U. Woods—Even This Shall Pass Away.
L. P. Burney—Heads or Hearts.

Columbia Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of the students from our controlling Synods
attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's finest men have finished their studies at this School of the Prophets. Columbia invites candidates
for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere. The entire Seminary organization, including the members of the Board of Directors
from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida, are active and interested. We have a complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working,
high-type Student Body. Fall term opens September 20, 1922. Necessary expenses about $150. Scholarships are provided to worthy candidates. Send
for the latest catalogue.

ACADEMY
FRANCIS & KENNEDY
Keith Vaudeville

PROGRAM
Thurs., Fri., Sat., Mar. 16th, 17th, 18th.

B. F. KEITH’S
THE NIFTY THREE
In a Frolic of Songs, Dance, Music, and Patter

THE PARAMOUNT FOUR
OVERTURE
In Typical, Topical Tunes

PATHE NEWS AND HAROLD LLOYD

THE AEROPLANE GIRLS
In “The Up-to-the-Minute Sensation”

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager
Charlotte, N. C.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor,
peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
Every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel
Second Floor

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas, and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan.
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45. Featuring the new 4-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes.

HATS, FURNISHINGS, SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music, and Everything in Music.
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
A HOME COMPANY
GREENSBORO, N. C.
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
U. J. Spencer, Mgr.
A HOME BUILDER
