THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

Religious Activities

MINISTERIAL BAND ENJOYS FIRST SPREAD OF THE YEAR

Ask any member of the Ministerial Band where he was the night of Saturday, September 23, and watch the grin
that spreads over his face. It won't be a halfway grin; it'll be an ear-to-ear smile that speaks of the
memory of sandwiches and dopes and cakes and ice cream, not to speak of apples and bananas. If the grin
on that chap’s face tells you he was at the feed held over White's Drug Store, it speaks the truth,
for that was a regular, sure-enough, honest-to-goodness feed, if ever one took place at old Davidson.

Some 40 members of the Ministerial Band assembled at the Civic League Hall right after the movies Saturday night for
the purpose of a good time and a big feed. In neither particular did they fail in their purpose. Of
course, the eats came first, and when everybody felt like a Ford tire with 90 pounds of air pressure, the
speeches began. Bill Baker, the president, had mercy on the assembly and produced only one speaker for the occasion. This
was Buck Currie, who, of course, made a cracking good talk, and didn’t forget to cut it short. After this,
the boys introduced themselves to the crowd, each fellow giving his name and home. The evening closed with a number
of songs. With Hiram Sharpe operating on the piano, the crowd turned loose on the old stand-by college melodies with
all the volume of Carusos. “College Ties” and “O Davidson” closed the musical program, and after 15 for the new
members, the refreshment committee, and the president of the band, the members disbanded and went to their bunks to dream
of wash tubs full of coca-cola and mountains of ice cream.

MITCHELL AND SUMMERS ARE MINISTERIAL BAND TALKERS

Last Sunday proved to be an interesting day for the members of the Ministerial Band at Davidson. A. M. Mitchell,
of Union Seminary, gave a short talk which was both helpful and interesting. Mr. Mitchell graduated from Davidson with the
class of ’21, and it was a source of genuine pleasure to have him present on last Sunday.

The band was also glad to have another of its former members present at the meeting Sunday. A. C. Summers,
of the class of '22, gave a short talk on “Our Minds.” Taking the four branches, the mind which controls
the physical features of our bodies, the inner mind, the conscience, and the mind for God, Gus told how each
may be developed and strengthened.

In the business session which followed, more definite plans were made in regard to the work of the band for
the year. Deputations will comprise the chief endeavor and in order to carry out this part of the work, it
was decided to send a representative to the meeting of the synod and make clear to the ministers of the
state the plans of the band.

WEEKS AND BURNEY DELIVER TALKS AT VOLUNTEER BAND

The Volunteer Band meeting last Sunday morning was conducted by Guy E. Weeks. The meeting was interesting and well attended.
Leroy Burney gave an excellent talk in which he set forth many reasons why the new men as well as
the old should turn their hearts to God at the beginning of the college year.

During the summer months, many fellows probably have become inactive and stale in the Christian religion, while others have strengthened
their faith in the Master. To the former group, Burney directed especially his talk. He brought to good effect that
one’s life in college is a good example of one’s life in the future. Therefore, the help of Jesus Christ
is essential to the success of any career, both in college and out of college. The only way to obtain
this help is to turn to God at the very start, for it is a true saying, “Two-thirds of a
race is finished in the start.”

Backward, turn backward, oh Time on thy way; give us some rain again, just for one day. Take us back
to April and give us a soak; the cistern is empty, we're ready to choke. The dust and the heat
make each minute an hour; turn a back hand-spring and give us a shower.

NEW ANNEX TO CHURCH WILL DO AWAY WITH CONGESTION

Due to a much larger registration here this term than ever before, the seating in church and chapel has become
quite a problem. Most of the student body has been squeezed into Shearer Hall in some manner, but it has
proved impossible as well as impracticable to find the required seating space in the church. The result has been that
the Seniors have been released from compulsory morning attendance at church service and are now allowed to take their choice
of either the morning or evening service at either the Presbyterian or Methodist Church.

The annex to the church, which was begun during the vacation months to relieve the present emergency, has been delayed
in construction due to the failure of materials to arrive promptly. This annex is on the eastern side of the
church where the pulpit formerly was in past years. Within the next few weeks, it is hoped to complete this
and adequately provide the necessary seating space for the entire student body and congregation.

MARRIAGES

On September 6, at the Sanford Presbyterian Church, Rev. John Malcolm McBryde, ex-'16, was united in marriage to Miss Ruth
Monroe Jones. The impressive ring ceremony was used by Rev. J. P. Profitt, of Greenville, Va. Immediately following an informal
reception given by the bride's parents at the home of Mrs. I. M. Judd, the bride and groom motored to
Raleigh where they took a train for Washington and other eastern points. They will be at home in Chinquapin, Duplin
County, where Rev. McBryde is pastor of the Presbyterian church.

Hazel P. Morrow, ex-'20, will be interested to hear of his marriage to Miss Virginia Banner, of Marion, S. C.,
at the home of the bride's parents. The ceremony was performed Sunday afternoon, September 10, by Rev. Mr. Story, of
the Marion Presbyterian Church. The bride is the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. George A. Banner, of Marion. She attended
Queens College in Charlotte and has host friends throughout the state as well as her home town. After a brief
honeymoon in Western North Carolina, Mr. and Mrs. Morrow returned to Albemarle where they are making their home.

The friends of Mr. and Mrs. C. A. Jackson, of Tifton, Ga., announce the engagement of their daughter, Apphia, to
Mr. Richard G. Finley, '16, of North Wilkesboro, the wedding to take place in the early fall.

Rev. L. B. McKeithern, '19, was married to Miss Fay Ritchie, of Clarkton, N.C., on May 8. They are living
at Cameron, N. C.

Albert King, '21, was united in marriage to Miss Ida Brown, of Meridian, Miss., on September 4.

Rev. Crane, '22, was married to Mrs. Crane, on June 6. They will leave soon for their mission field in
Korea.

On Tuesday, the twenty-fifth of July, at Batesville, Arkansas, Miss Martha Gray, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. William Daniel
Gray, was united in marriage to Mr. John Baker Daffin, '18.

At the Howard Memorial Presbyterian Church, on Thursday evening at nine o'clock, June 8, Mr. Robert Brooks Peters, Jr., '19,
was united in marriage to Miss Mary Wharton Wooten at Tarboro, North Carolina. The bride is the daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. William L. Wooten.

On Thursday evening, June 22, at half-past eight o’clock at the Saint Joseph's Church of Pikesville, N. C., Reverend John
Kerr Flemming, '19, was united in marriage to Miss Retha Irene Flowers, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. G. Hasket
Flowers. The couple are residing at present at Acme, N. C.

The friends of Mr. George Warren Gignilliat, '15, will be interested to hear of his marriage on Tuesday morning, July
25, at the First Presbyterian Church of Birmingham, Alabama, to Miss Annie Moore, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John
William Moore. After the twenty-fifth of September, the couple will reside in Memphis, Tennessee, where Mr. Gignilliat is a chemist
and physician.

PANDEINIC SOCIETY TAKES IN NEW MEMBERS

The Pandeinic Literary Society started its second year with a rush last Thursday night. There was much activity in the
hall, with fear and trembling on the part of some 12 Freshmen, who started off on their literary career. Two
upperclassmen were also initiated in a more dignified manner. After their unusual greeting, the Freshmen engaged in various sports, while
the older men increased their enthusiasm in many ways and by various means. Beginning with several rounds of one-armed boxing,
the athletes gave way to the eaters, and several cakes of shredded wheat disappeared with dispatch.That done, the debaters took
the floor, and Wallace Moore and Warren Cox blushed and reddened as their younger brothers brought out and enlarged upon
their defects of form and complexion. So heated was the contest and so animated the participants that the two specimens
under discussion were at one moment on the heights, as their defenders brought out the many points in which they
resembled Apollo, then, at the next, in the depths, as the opposition showed their absolute lack of any claim to
beauty. Upon the completion of the activities, refreshments were served.

In Columbia, S. C., Thursday, June 1, Reverend Henry Benson Dendy, '19, was united in marriage to Miss Nellie Spann
Marks, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. R. Stuart Marks. McBryde, Rev. J. M. '16, was married on Tuesday, Sept.
12, to Miss Ruth Jones of Shuford, N.C.

BIRTHS
Mr. and Mrs. Lloyd Smith, '12, wish to announce the arrival of Frank Page, on August 7, 1922. Mr. and
Mrs. Charles Waldo Foreman announce the arrival of Charline on August 31, 1922. Frank F. Baker announces Allyn, August 3,
1922. Future D.C. man, Mr. and Mrs. Varglinga, announce the arrival of Horace Va. and Donald Clark, weight 7 3-4
pounds, on September 14, 1922, to Mr. and Mrs. C. Williamson. A good football start for Davidson's '41 team.

DEATHS
Davidson students will regret to hear of the death of Hugh Cornelius, ex-'23, and A. M. McClure, ex-'23, both of
which occurred last June. Dr. Robert Tally Morrison, Jr. '66, died August 2nd at his home near Mt. Moran. He
received his M.D. degree in 1881 from Louisville Medical College. He had the honor of organizing the Philanthropic Literary Society
after the war of '61, being the only member present at that time. Dr. Morrison was prominent in various lines
of business, including farming, surveying, teaching, and merchandising, besides being a well-known and competent pharmacist. His death is sincerely regretted
by the Davidson alumni and his many friends.

For Men Only
The joke that too often goes best, in theatre or club, or social circle, is the one that shows up
a wife to ridicule. It doesn’t have to be a story about your wife. Anybody’s wife will do. So long
as the story mocks the judgment of a wife, or paints her as second in intelligence only to one of
pure Darwinian ancestry, everybody seems satisfied and happy. So long as wives are the subject, the lid is off. Nothing
is too mean, nothing is too cutting to be awarded a chorus of approving male laughter and applause. And right
there is where the practicing members of the local husband’s union make a great mistake. Leaving chivalry out of it,
putting love aside, a man who slurs his wife, slurs himself most of all. In criticizing her he reflects criticism
equally on his own reputed high standing judgment, his own proudly enthroned good sense, in having selected her as his
wife. It is a public advertisement of a private and personal failure. And those who lend encouragement and approval by
laughter and applause are little better off. By their tacit agreement, they admit, by their very callousness toward it, how
probable and casual a thing it is to their minds. Speaking ill of one’s wife is not only not nice,
it is impolitic. No gentleman would do it. Others would do well to practice a like restraint.

LITERARY NEWS
FRESHMEN RECEIVED BY EUMANEAN SOCIETY
Last Thursday evening about 30 Freshmen presented themselves at the Eumanean hall to be initiated and start their careers in
this famous old society. After being conducted into the hall, as becomes all new men, cheers of greeting went up
from the old men and the initiation exercises were on. The first number on the program was a debate by
McNeir and Bouvier on the subject, “Resolved, That Freshmen Make Better Bootleggers Than Moonshiners.” From the speeches, it was evident
that the debaters had not given much thought to this weighty question and were soon forced to take their seats
with the question still unsettled. Williamson next entertained the audience with a solo but fortunately, it was very short to
the relief of both Williamson and the audience. Brinson and Baker then gave an exhibition of wrestling and egg frying,
which was very funny. But the funniest part of the program, except for those directly concerned, was the shredded wheat
eating contest. Barr proved himself to be the champion shredded wheat eater. The program was concluded by short solos from
Martin and Cox. The refreshments were next in order and everyone, especially the Freshmen, seemed to enjoy this feature of
the entertainment.

METROPHILIANS INITIATE NEW MEMBERS
At the meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society last Thursday evening, initiation ceremonies were held and 14 new men were
taken into the society. The older members entered first and as soon as they had become seated, the doors were
thrown open and those who were aspiring to membership were admitted to the hall. Their entrance was accompanied by much
laughter because of the ludicrous ways in which they had dressed. To all of them, it seemed, shoes were useless
articles of dress for instead of wearing them upon their feet, as is the custom about here, they had them
festooned about their necks. Some seemingly unaccustomed to the habiliments of civilization, had donned their coats in the exact opposite
of the usual manner, doubtless to exhibit the lining. After a pre-arranged program of initiation, the new men filed past
the secretary's desk to sign their names, and names of their sweethearts. A short talk was given by Professor Wagner,
after which the meeting was adjourned. The new men taken in were: H. B. Matthews, O. P. Matthews and R.
T. Kimsey, upperclassmen, and Henry Blue, Jennings Karnhardt, Boyd Trawick, Roland Parker, A. A. Springs, J. C. Pressly, Edward Christenbury,
Carl McLeod, John M. Justice, P. Faggat, J. H. Booth and H. C. Lawson, all Freshmen.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON COMMENCES ACTIVITIES
The Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity held its first meeting of the year on last Friday evening, having a 100
percent attendance. The five student members back this year are: C. F. Wildman, N. R. Currie, W. S. Buchanan, J.
B. Sloan and H. H. Smith. The faculty members are: Doctor Arbuckle, Professor Thies and Prof. L. Currie. The Fraternity
is expecting to have many interesting programs during this year. These programs will include advanced study in chemistry and discussion
of the chief topics of the day. Gamma Sigma Epsilon is hoping to expand into other undergraduate schools of the
South during this year. A chapter was established at the University of Florida during the spring of last year.

CAMPUS NEWS
Those spending part of last week in the infirmary were W. F. Galloway, J. B. Gallent and William Latta. R.
L. McLeod spent part of last Saturday in Charlotte. C. I. Wildman motored down to Charlotte last Wednesday. Robert McGirt
spent the weekend in Asheville.

LIBRARY NEWS
During the summer months, many new and interesting books by popular authors have been added to the Davidson College Library.
A brief summary of three of them is given below:

“The Pathless Trail” is a story of a man who fled from civilization because he had committed murder, and in
a partially demented state lived for five years with a tribe of cannibals, they being afraid to kill a madman.
This is a very romantic and exciting book by a great writer, Arthur Friel, who blazes his own trails. The
author is at present roving in the jungles of South America.

“Lucretia Lombard” is the title given to a very dramatic novel written by Kathleen Norris, the wife of Charles G.
Norris, author of “Brass.” Mrs. Norris is a writer of no mean ability. The story is of a Scotch nobleman
whom two ladies loved.

“Painted Windows” is a book that every Davidson student should read. It was written by the author of “The Mirrors
of Downing Street.” This book reveals the chaos of opinion which exists in the modern church and seeks to discover
a reason for the present ignoble situation of the church in the affections of men.

In addition to these, there are four books on wireless telegraphy and radio, three by Elmer E. Broker and one
by A. P. Morgan.

Announcing that John Ward Men's Shoes will continue to visit DAVIDSON throughout the coming college year with the newest and
best in conservatively correct footwear at prices ranging from $7 to $10. The first display of the season will be
at: No. 4 GEORGIA HALL on October 7.

John Ward Men's Shoes
General Offices: 121 Duane Street, New York
Shops: 1401-03 Broadway, just below 40th Street, Manhattan and 8 other locations
Philadelphia Shop: 1221-23 Chestnut Street, just below the Hotel Adelphia
