w THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

FURMAN LOOMS DARK AS TURKEY DAY OPPONENT

With the Carolina game as history, all the eyes, grit, and determination of the Wildcats are turned in the direction
of the Thanksgiving struggle with Furman. Struggle is right. It is the ambition of the Davidson supporters to wipe out
the sting of the 28-0 defeat of last year and convert the Purple Hurricane into a gentle, pink breeze, but
it will take a great deal of work on the part of the coaches and team to overcome some of
the faults of the Carolina game, to accomplish the task.

In looking forward to that game two important facts are evident. The first is that the Davidson team to face
the Hurricane is better than the squad of ’21; and second, Furman does not seem to be as good as
she was last year. Beside this fact, the Furman coach and players seem to have set for themselves the example
of other South Carolina institutions and have trouble between themselves, which resulted in the suspension of two of her star
backfield men, McCurry and Dempsey. They were found missing in the roll call for the South Carolina game and remained
off the squad for two weeks. Then when Coach Bill Laval telegraphed in from Columbia to reinstate the two players,
great was the rejoicing in the Furman camp. South Carolina romped over her Baptist rivals to the tune of 27-6.
The defeat was partially administered by the second of the two strong Gamecock elevens.

But these are just a very few of the bright spots of encouragement for the Wildcats. When the manner in
which Furman defeated Florida, 7-6, early in the season is considered, the way in which she trounced Wofford, who had
been waiting for them all year, by a 41-0 score, while the Wildcats dragged the old Gold and Black only
by a score of 34-0, it will be seen that Furman is still represented by a team capable of withstanding
a strong opposition. But as dope has been spilled all over the gridiron again this year, it is hard to
tell how a game is going to turn out. Whatever the resulting score may be next Thanksgiving, a battle royal
may be expected by both teams. The Wildcats, outweighed, hope to conquer by the old-time fight and spirit, with the
co-operation of the student body.

THE Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” SPORTING GOODS Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach, and Wright & Ditson goods.
We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros Rackets Restrung by an Expert Myers Hardware and Sporting
AL FAUL, Mgr.

CHONG’S LETTER

Davidson, N. C. November 20, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The Tar Heels showed themselves to be one of the greatest teams in this neck of the woods when they
beat the Wildcats Saturday, 29-6. The Wildcats scored on ’em though, and left Trinity the honor of being the only
team in the South which has been unable to score on the Blue machine this season. That was one of
the prettiest aerial drives I have ever seen and it took a nifty pair of ends and Jim Hendrix to
pull the trick. First, Jim shot a long pass to Nappy and he trickled down the sidelines for 10 or
15 yards before he went out of bounds. Then 'Lias grabbed the ball and carried it to the 23-yard line.
A third pass was incomplete but Nappy grabbed the next one on the two-yard line and side-stepped two would-be tacklers
and ran over the last chalk line for the Wildcats’ six points. It was the greatest play of the afternoon
and the crowd of 8,000 gave Nappy the ovation he deserved. The way he climbed into the air after that
ball was worth the price of admission to see.

The score was 29-6, but the first downs were closer than that, Carolina getting 21 to the Wildcats’ 9. Each
team got one first down on a penalty. The Tar Heels had the best interference seen around these parts in
many a day. The V. P. I. Gobblers had some interference on their end runs, but the Wildcats were able
to shift through and nail the runner for losses time after time. The interference Bill Fetzer had perfected Saturday was
unbeatable and it's easy to see that with even breaks Carolina would have whipped Yale.

Red Edgerton was assisted from the field Saturday by two policemen. Red, an assistant on the coaching force, didn’t have
on a badge so two policemen decided to eject him from the field. They refused to listen to the coaches
and dragged him out. It took both of them to do it, and it was lucky for them that they
had four hands to Red’s two, ‘cause if he had ever gotten one hand loose there would have been at
least one 200-pound body flattened out on terra firma. After an argument Red walked back in and the two would-be
heroes who had escorted him to the gate had the pleasurable sensation of looking like fools and having 8,000 people
see them in that light. Intelligence as well as brawn should be had in the police force. They spent 10
minutes dragging a peaceable and orderly man out of the park and then let him walk back in again, while
a bunch of drunks in front of the Queens girls who were cussing and raising sand were allowed to pull
all the rough stuff without so much as a word from the policemen. There were four or five of them,
though, and after the hard time the cops had getting one sober man out they must have decided that four
drunks were too many for them. It was pretty sorry work, all the way around on the part of the
supporters of the law and every Wildcat agrees that they deserve all the panning they can get.

Furman made one more touchdown against Wofford than the Wildcats did and the game Turkey Day looms up as the
greatest battle of the year. By comparative scores the teams are evenly matched. South Carolina frocked Furman, 27-7 and the
Tar Heels beat the Palmetto University by a three-point margin, giving them a 23-point lead over Furman. Carolina’s margin of
victory over us was 23 points, so from that it looks like a tie verdict on Thanksgiving but you never
can tell! Greenville will be the scene of a fight on the 30th and a bunch of Wildcats will be
there to see the fun. Frock Furman!!!

CHONG.

Our last chance to make the worst season in Davidson gridiron history will come with the Furman game. A bad
season in 1919 was made much better by a 41-14 victory over the Hurricane. We have the material to beat
Furman. Why can’t we do it?

C. M. DAVIS—DC. M. Davis, known to everyone as Nappy, began his college career with the class of ’24. In
his Freshman year, it was recognized that he would be an invaluable addition to the football squad, and if Davidson
had not possessed two all-State ends, Schenck and Douglas, he would have occupied a berth and made his letter that
year. Schenck and Douglas graduated in ’21, and when the next season rolled around, Nappy loomed up as the only
logical man to fill one of the gaps at end. It was without extra effort that he cinched this position,
and his subsequent playing has shown him worthy of the place. He weighs a scant 155 pounds, but an opponent
of 200-pound avoirdupois has no material effect upon Nappy’s onslaught. He is the most consistent ground gainer at end that
has been seen at Davidson in some time.

Without casting any reflection on his defensive game, it can be said that he is best on offense. When a
forward pass is anticipated by the Wildcat’s opponent, it is well for them to keep an eye on Nappy. Many
times he has received the pigskin with waiting hands, and many yards have been credited to him alone, which meant,
or ultimately meant, a touchdown. It would be difficult to point out a specific game in which Nappy has featured,
for in every one he is there with all the fight imaginable and gives his best from the time the
first whistle blows until the last blast has sounded. However, the game with Carolina last Saturday can be pointed to
as the brand of football Nappy plays. Nappy has one more year at Davidson, and students hope that he will
return for an M.A. degree, since he is eligible for two more years of football. It is the consensus of
opinion on the Hill that when the time comes for selecting all-State ends, Nappy will be seriously considered to occupy
one of the extremities on that mythical eleven.

D. CLASS. BASKETBALL | Soph-Fresh

The Sophomores made it four straight and practically cinched the class basketball championship when they defeated the Fresh on Friday
night by the score of 27 to 9. They have two more games to play, one against the Juniors and
one against the Seniors. If they should lose both of these games, it would at most be a tie. The
game was clean and hard-fought throughout and was really closer than the score might indicate. This was especially true since
the Sophomores were without the services of their trusty trio, Anderson, Mitchell, and Staley. These positions were ably supplied, however,
by Brice, Boggs, and Oeland. Ed Morrison was the individual star for the winners, playing an effective game at guard
and ringing up a total of six field goals. Brice also got his eye on the basket and registered four
counters. For the Freshmen, Speir and Parker probably played the best game, Speir registering four of his team’s nine points.
The game had not been announced at the picture show, so there was but a small bunch of rooters out
to support the two teams. The game did not start until 10:30, and the Chamber of Commerce breakfast and dinner
began to tell heavily on those that had made the trip to Charlotte that day. The first half ended with
the score 17 to 3 in favor of the Sophs, but the Fresh came back stronger in the second half
and held their opponents to five field goals, while they rung up three. This game gives the Sophomores a total
of 136 points to their opponents’ 35.

SOPHS (27) FRESH (9)
Position
Brice (8) .......... Coulton (2) Forward
Oeland (2) ........ Parker (2) Forward
Brice (8) .......... Speir (4) Center
Morrison (12) ...... Caddell (1) Guard
Koenig (0) ......... Davis (0) Guard

Substitutions—Freshmen: Minter for Davis, Davis for Minter, Minter for Davis. Sophomores: Taylor for Oeland, Wharton for Boggs, Price for Taylor.
Referee—Crawford.

It was an autumn evening,
The football game was done,
The undefeated college scribe
Was smiling at the sun.
“Although we lost the game,” said he,
“It was a moral victory.”

The wise eggs who wagered their mazuma that Carolina would wallop the Wildcats by five touchdowns are now breaking their
legs rushing to the complaint department. The Tar Heels looked like a cool million last Saturday. A game between Coach
Bill’s pupils and V. P. I. would be worth going over miles of rocky road to see. It's merely “one
fool’s opinion on sports,” but the Old Dominion team would carry our rocks in that game. Carolina’s next logical opponent
is Battling Siki, African Goliath.

Try for a point. Football players and crap shooters do it. You’re all wrong, Mary Jane. The Charlotte police force
has to pass an intelligence test.

Famous Comebacks!
He hit me when I wasn’t looking. Babe Adams.
Had a bad cold, couldn’t study.

Record of Past Games With Furman
1902—D. C. 6—Furman, 0.
1915—D. C. 58—Furman, 13.
1916—D. C. 46—Furman, 14.
1917—D. C. 28—Furman, 7.
1919—D. C. 41—Furman, 14.
1920—D. C. 0—Furman, 7.
1921—D. C. 0—Furman, 28.

They got all the breaks, Because! Red Edgerton.

The dame who was left waiting “at the church” didn’t have a thing on that Carolina bunch when Nappy Davis
lit a rag after a pass Saturday.

Jane Elliott says an apple a day will keep the doctor away. We wonder what an onion will do.

The proofreader on a small Middle Western daily was a woman of great precision and extreme propriety. One day a
reporter succeeded in getting into type an item about “Willie Brown, the boy who was burned in the West End
by a live wire.” On the following day, the reporter found on his desk a frigid note asking: “Which is
the west end of a boy?” It took only an instant to reply: “The end the son sets on, of
course.”

We Will Be Looking for All the Boys SATURDAY
Exclusive Men’s Shop
Make This Your Headquarters
Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Clothing and Furnishings for Young Men
