THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922.

Manufacturers of HIGH CLASS SHOP WORK Hardwood Flooring Oak and Maple Lime Cement Roofing We are furnishing all the mill
work for the two new dormitories at Davidson College — J. H. Wearn & Company Charlotte, N. C.

UNDABESTOS The Practical Covering for Underground Steam Lines It will be used on all steam lines of the New Central
Heating Plant at Davidson College General Equipment Company Realty Bldg. Charlotte, N.C.

ERNEST ELLISON “Just Insurance” Any Kind Any Where 203 South Tryon Street Charlotte, N. C.

Theological Seminary JOHN M. WELLS, President Columbia, South Carolina Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred
years. Many of the students from our controlling Synods attend Davidson. Some of Davidson’s finest men have finished their studies
at this School of the Prophets. Columbia Seminary invites candidates for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere. Harmony and
good-will permeate the entire Seminary organization. The members of the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida
are interested. We have a complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working, high-type student Body. Fall term opens September 20, 1922.
Necessary expenses about $150. Scholarships awarded to worthy students. Send for latest catalogue.

EAGLE "MIKADO" PENCIL No. 174 For Sale at your Dealer Made in five grades ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH
THE RED BAND EAGLE MIKADO EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK

WAKE FOREST DEFEATED. (Continued from page 2)

Pritchett, ss 3 0 0 0 0 0 McLeod, lf 3 0 0 0 0 0 Bryce, rf 3 0
0 0 0 0 Loucks, cf 2 0 0 0 0 0

Trinity 000 023 40x—9 12 3 Davidson 3 000 000 0Ox—0 5 6

Summary—Stolen bases, Folger, Pritchett. Sacrifice hits, Turner. Two base hits, Simpson, Spikes, Dempster, S. Erwin, M. Erwin. Left on bases,
Trinity 6; Davidson 4. Base on balls, off Simpson 5; by Sorrells 3. Double plays, Crawford to M. Erwin. Wild
pitches, Sorrells. Passed balls, McMillan 2. Earned runs, Trinity 7. Time 2:18. Umpire, Joyner. Attendance one thousand.

Catawba Game.

Thursday afternoon the Wildcats snatched victory from seeming defeat and by an eighth inning rally which netted six runs took
the Catawba nine into camp by a score of 6-4. When Hunky McLeod, the premier swatsmith of the Pee Dee
league, leaned against the offering of Gibson, the pitching ace of Catawba, who cracked under the strain in the eighth
frame, and smashed a slashing single over the halfway station sending Crawford and Pritchett scampering across the platter with the
deciding counters of the contest, the stands showed the same enthusiasm as in the old days when John Schenck and
Spratt Moore used to waltz over the last chalk line and the scorer chalked up another seven points on the
credit side of the Wildcats’ ledger. The Catawba lads scored a brace of tallies in the fourth and in the
eighth pushed another over the plate on Brown’s triple and Mooney’s single. With the score 3-0 against them and Gibson
still going good it looked like the kalso-brush would be applied to the Presbyterians. In the Wildcats’ half of the
eighth Gibson donated a pass to Brice, pinch-hitting for Boushee, and Marrow batting for Malcolm Erwin was safe on Gibson’s
error. Luke Erwin forced Brice at third and Captain Archie knocked a grass-cutter through Whissenhunt’s under pins and breezed around
to the hot corner. Crawford singled to short. McMillan flew out but Pritchett was safe on Adam’s error. Then with
the score tied the Pee Dee phenom lashed out a hit for the third time during the matinee and the
winning tallies. Brown greeted Gabriel who relieved Gibson with a single to right, driving McLeod across with the last Wildcat
score. Gibson started in great style whiffing eight and allowing only four safeties till the fatal eighth. Boushee was in
fine form, poor support allowing the visitors to tally and Sorrells’ pitching the final inning struck out the last two
men.

Box score:

Catawba: ab r h po a e Brown, cf 4 1 1 0 0 0 Whissenhunt, 2b 4 0 1
1 0 0 Mooney, lf 4 0 1 0 0 0 Ryan, ss 4 0 1 0 0 0 Atwell,
1b 4 0 0 0 0 0 Fesperman, 3b 4 0 0 0 0 0 Brown, rf 4 0 0
0 0 0 Gibson, p 4 0 0 0 0 0 Gabriel, p 1 0 0 0 0 0 Totals
34 4 6 27 14 3

Davidson: ab r h po a e Erwin, M., 2b 4 0 1 1 0 0 Erwin, L., ss 4
1 1 0 0 0 Freeman, 3b 4 1 1 0 0 0 Crawford, 1b 4 1 1 2 0
0 McMillan, c 4 0 0 5 1 0 Pritchett, ss 4 1 1 1 0 0 McLeod, lf 4
1 1 0 0 0 Brown, G., rf 4 0 1 0 0 0 Boushee, p 0 0 0 0
0 0 Sorrells, p 0 0 0 0 0 0 Brice x 0 0 0 0 0 0 Marrow xx
2 1 0 0 0 0 Totals 34 6 7 27 14 3

xBatted for Boushee in eighth. xxBatted for Erwin, M., in eighth.

Catawba 000 200 011—4 Davidson 000 000 06x—6

Summary—Two base hit, Ryan. Three base hits, Ryan, Brown, G., Pritchett. Stolen bases, Erwin, L., Pritchett, McLeod, Ryan, Fesperman. Left
on bases, Davidson 7; Catawba 5. Double play, Whissenhunt to Ryan to Atwell. Wild pitch, Gibson. First base on errors,
Davidson 3; Catawba 2. Base on balls, off Gibson 2. Struck out, by Gibson 8; by Boushee 3; by Sorrells
2. Hits off Gibson 6, with 5 runs in 7 2-3 innings; Gabriel 1 with 1 run in 1-3 inning.
Boushee 6 with 3 runs in 8 innings; Sorrells 1 with 1 run in 1 inning. Time 1:30. Umpire Irby.

DETAILS OF NEW PHYSICS LABORATORY BUILDING

Probably no department in college felt the loss of Chambers building as much as did the physics department. For many
years instructors, notably Dr. Douglas, gathered valuable apparatus, piece by piece, as a bird slowly builds its nest, after much
laborious work. Then, on that fatal day, November 28, 1921, the work of many years was swept away with one
mighty sweep. However, it was not long ere a new laboratory for this branch of science was begun to be
erected. Work on this building was rushed, but due to a large amount of rain, it was only completed about
two weeks ago. The completed wooden frame structure is located due east of the power house.Contains a basement, ground floor,
and second floor. On each floor, every available inch of space is now being utilized. In the basement may be
found two labs, one for applied mathematics, the other for psychology. With the use of these two additions to the
respective departments, the work of Doctors Hood and Woods will be materially aided.

The first floor is divided into two labs, a stock room, a room for lectures, and an office for Dr.
Douglas. The labs, one for the Juniors and one for the Sophomores, are extremely well equipped with new apparatus and
contain 110 and 120 direct current, which offers the opportunity of performing many electrical experiments they would otherwise be unable
to do. Besides the equipment previously mentioned, it may be well to add that the Junior lab is equipped with
brick piers for the purpose of supporting heavy apparatus and securing accurate weights on scales.

The lecture room, incidentally being used as Professor Currie’s classroom for math, is well ventilated. The blackboards also have a
green pigment in them, which makes it much easier on the eyes of the pupils when gazing at the board.
The other rooms, modern in every particular, are all well ventilated and have an excellent lighting system.

The third floor is divided into four large classrooms. These have been assigned to instructors who lost rooms when Chambers
burned. Among those occupying these new rooms are Doctors Shewmake with English courses, and Currie, with math. Although this new
building is not a result of lavish expenditures, it is an excellent substitute until a permanent one can be provided.
So with the ever-increasing amount of new apparatus for the labs, the physics classes will be given full opportunity to
set to work with a will and show true “Wildcat spirit” and make up all back experiments between now and
June.

THE R. O. T. C. ITS PLACE IN THE PLAN OF NATIONAL DEFENSE

After each war in which we have been engaged since 1776, there have been certain organizations which have performed valiant
deeds, acts of heroism. But today, who remembers that organization which, like its commander, stood like a “stonewall” at Bull
Run; or the one which made the charge at Gettysburg; or the other one which spent its force against the
Bloody Angle at Cold Harbor? These heroic organizations, as far as general public knowledge is concerned, have completely passed into
oblivion.

Happily, our present National Defense Act corrects this unfortunate defect in the country’s military policy. We have now an army
of the United States composed of the Organized Reserve, National Guard, and the Regular Army. Each of these components is
distributed throughout the United States according to population. In order to perfect this plan, the country has been divided into
nine corps areas, each area having assigned to it certain units of the Organized Reserve, National Guard, and Regular Army,
all or nearly all of which saw service overseas. To illustrate, take the Fourth Corps Area, which is made up
of the States of North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Tennessee. The units assigned to this
area are: Organized Reserve—81st or Wildcat Division, 82nd or Dixie Division, 87th or Akron Division. National Guard—30th or Old Hickory
Division and the 30th Division. Regular Army—Not assigned yet.

Not only the names but, through the present policy, the organizations themselves will live on and on through the enlistment
and re-enlistment of patriotic people. In time of peace, the Regular Army is, naturally, on duty at all times; the
National Guard, in addition to its armory drills, is given certain field training each year; the Organized Reservist receives 15
days of field training annually except when it interferes with his business or when the appropriation is not sufficient. During
the time of a national emergency, expressly declared by an Act of Congress, the entire Army of the United States
is called into service. When participating in field training in time of peace or called into service in time of
a national emergency, all the personnel of the Army of the United States receive pay and allowances authorized for his
rank or grade.

The Organized Reserve gets its manpower from the World War Veterans, the Civilian Military Training Camps, and the R. O.
T. C. Upon graduation, a student of the R. O. T. C. may now go into the organization in which
his father, brother, or other relative served during the world war. There are now about 100,000 students in the R.
O. T. C.; in the Organized Reserve there are some 67,000, all of which means that in the next emergency,
anyone who aspires to a rank greater than Private must have had previous training in some branch of the Army
of the United States—Regular Army, National Guard, or the Organized Reserve.

McAULEY, GARRISON & HOPKINS CO. SECURE PLUMBING CONTRACT

It has been the policy of those in charge of the building of our new buildings to select the best
contractors available. In carrying out this policy, McAuley, Garrison, and Hopkins Co. were chosen to do the plumbing work in
the new dormitories. They are old friends of the college, having furnished supplies from time to time and last year
they did the plumbing work in the two temporary dormitories.

They are not only doing most of the plumbing here, but are one of the leading concerns in Charlotte. Their
work may be found in nearly all parts of the city. The Brown Betty Tea Room and the Mutual Building
& Loan building are both being fitted up by them. The plumbing in a large percent of the newer residences
in Myers Park was done by them. They are, just now, completing the plumbing work in the new Myers Park
Apartment House.

Davidson expects that good work, the best of work, in fact, will be put into these new buildings, and we
are sure of getting it from our plumbers as well as others. (Adv.)

Miss Shaw left on Tuesday to attend the Concord Presbyterial, held in Salisbury. Other Davidson ladies who will attend are:
Mesdames Currie, W. R. Grey, Hamilton, and Richards.

Miss Mary Richardson, of Albemarle, who has had charge of the sixth grade in the local school this year, was
forced to resign on account of illness at home. Mrs. T. E. Lothery will finish out the unexpired term.
