THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922

Religious Activities

BROTHER MARK SPEAKS AT UNION BAND MEET

Brother Mark spoke to the union meeting of the Volunteer and Ministerial Bands last Sunday morning on Gal. 5:22, “The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace * * * * *”

“Everyone must know righteousness and devotion when they see them, but joy is peculiar to Christians. Why look sick when all you have to endure is your Christianity? Enthusiasm is the real test of Christianity, you have to be enthused before you can influence others. Peace of soul and ease of mind come from doing what you know God wants you to do. If we can make up our minds to live God's will, then there is not that struggle and hesitation when we meet with temptation, and we have peace of soul.”

Brother Mark delivered a warning to disregard all selfish and estranging mannerisms. “Don't be professional in the ministry, but be a good workman and know your job. Be able to play with people, thus gaining their confidence and getting into close touch with them, and then you can speak seriously to them. You can’t be dogmatic about your view, but win them by seeing their view first. You must talk to a man from his ground.”

Brother Mark, in applying this to the student life, said, “Don’t live such a devoted life that you can’t mix with people; as you go out, don’t make your Christian work a job; we must win them but not through any set formula, by any set garb or in any set numbers.”

MR. W. F. JUNKIN TO TALK AT “Y” SUNDAY

The Y. M. C. A. may count itself fortunate in being permitted to hear Mr. W. F. Junkin at the weekly service on Sunday night. Mr. Junkin has devoted 30 years of his life to missionary work in China, spending the greater part of this time at Sutsien. Only two months of his furlough have elapsed since his arrival in the United States.

As a matter of interest, it may be mentioned that Mr. Junkin is related to Stonewall Jackson. He himself married the daughter of Doctor Dubose, the founder of the Anti-Opium League of China. Mr. Junkin has had many interesting and some dangerous experiences while performing his duties in China. Once, while riding along on his bicycle, during the days of the Boxer War, he was stopped by robbers who removed his outer clothing and even took his Bible on the pretext that it was money.

Mr. Junkin is an interesting and forceful speaker. Out of his wide knowledge of conditions in China and the foreign field generally, he is certain to give an inspiring talk which will hold the attention of the audience. Especially will he be helpful to those who plan to engage in Christian service in some foreign country.

T. McBRYDE LEADS UNION MEETING OF TWO BANDS

The first union meeting of the Volunteer and Ministerial Bands was led by Angus McBryde in Shearer Hall at 10 o’clock Sunday morning, November 26th. The Volunteers had charge of the unusually large meeting—40 being present. In the opening talk, Burney summed up the reasons why the Bands united. In the first place, if the majority of good is to be accomplished, both organizations must know of the work the other is driving at. Again, by combining forces and working together, the bands will present a stronger force for good. Burney then emphasized the point that the primary reason which prompted the Volunteers to unite into a band was to bring to a definite decision those that were thinking about going to the foreign field.

Benton Wharton then told that the Volunteers had been trying to do personal work on the campus and had been trying to live influential and all-around lives.

GIFTS THAT LAST

FOR HER

DAVIDSON SEAL — Pins and Rings.
EVERSHARP — Pens and Pencils, in Gift Sets, Specially Packed.
ELGIN — Wrist Watches.
DAVIDSON SEAL — Felt Goods, Pillow Tops, Table Runners and Pennants.

W. S. HENDERSON
The Jeweler

GIFTS THAT LAST

FOR A Gift Distinctive of Davidson

Pennants, Table Runners, Banners, and Stationery with the Davidson Seal. And may we suggest a Class Pennant or a Tennis Racquet.

THE COMMISSARY
“Service for Our Mutual Benefit”

Patronize Our Advertisers

TOWN NEWS

Mr. J. L. Bell, of Brevard, N. C., is spending the weekend with his daughter, Mrs. J. R.Withers. Misses Jessamine Brown and Evelyn Potts spent Saturday in Charlotte. The many friends of Miss Helen Gibbs are glad to know that she is convalescent from her recent sudden illness. Mr. J. R. Jones, ’22, of Salisbury, N. C., spent a few hours on the hill last Friday. Interesting visitors at Davidson last week were Mrs. P. B. Fetzer, Mrs. P. B. Fetzer, and Mrs. "Bill" Fetzer, the latter the wife of our former coach. Miss Rose Willifred, of Concord, is spending a few days in Davidson, the guest of relatives and friends. Miss Eleanor Adams, Dean of the Ohio State College for Women, was the pleasant guest at the home of Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie last week. Miss Adams and Mrs. Currie were fellow students at Oxford. The Misses Shamherst, of Greenville, accompanied by Mr. Jimmie Barber, of the same place, motored up to Davidson for Senior week. While here they were the guests of their sister, Mrs. Weatherby. Miss Helen Shumaker, of Mooresville, spent Thanksgiving with her aunts, the Misses Shumaker. Mr. and Mrs. Ted Cashion, of Gastonia, were pleasant visitors at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Archie Brown for the weekend. The Davidson, Mt. Mourne, and Cornelius Leagues met in union last Sunday night at Cornelius. The entire student body sympathizes with E. A. West in the death of his father, Doctor West. Edwin left for home last Friday. Miss Lucy Shumaker motored to Mooresville Tuesday evening to attend the Linker-Evans wedding at the Methodist Church, accompanied by her niece Miss Helen Shumaker. The many friends of Mrs. Booe are glad to know she is resting easily after breaking her arm last week. Miss Eloise Martin, of Converse College, spent last weekend at home, taking in the Davidson-Carolina game. Dr. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, accompanied by Ted Jones and O. J. Allison, motored to Charlotte last Saturday. Mrs. and Miss Ellenwood are spending December in Washington, D. C. They expect to open their home here immediately after Christmas. Mrs. J. K. Glasgow and children visited her father in Charlotte last week. Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood spent Thanksgiving in Raleigh with their daughter, Miss Kalista, who is a student at St. Mary’s. The Thelemites met on Friday evening last with Mrs. W. L. Porter. The papers of the evening were given by Madames Fleagle and Wood. Mrs. Hearn and Mrs. Paisley have both been quite sick the last week with the prevailing bronchial trouble. Mrs. W. J. Martin has returned home much improved from a brief stay at a Charlotte hospital. Miss Steele is again at her desk after quite an attack of influenza. Misses Kate Douglas and Maude Vinson, of the High School faculty, have been absent from their classrooms on account of sickness. Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, Mrs. Doyle, and Mrs. Wilson MacConnell accompanied the High School football team to Lenoir on Thanksgiving Day. The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Arbuckle last Thursday evening. Mrs. Shewmake read a very interesting paper on “Italian Art.” Among those who spent Thanksgiving in Charlotte were Prof. and Mrs. O. J. Theis, Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding. The Book Lovers’ Club will give a party December 16th, complimentary to the Thelemites, in Charlotte. Mr. William Cathey spent the weekend in Charlotte. Dr. and Mrs. Richards motored to South Carolina for Thanksgiving. They were accompanied by their daughters, Misses Mary and Jane Layton Richards. Mr. and Mrs. Doyle, of Baltimore, Md., are visiting their daughter, Mrs. Wilson MacConnell.

PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS

Miss Alice Pitts, of High Point, is the interesting guest of Miss Lilie Helper this week. The Ladies Auxiliary held its meeting at 4 o'clock Thursday afternoon, while the executive committee of the auxiliary held its meeting at 3:30. The Woman's Bible Study Class held its regular meeting Thursday morning at 10:30 in the manse. This class is doing worthy work and is becoming more and more beneficial to its members. Distinction—That She Will Appreciate. Monogrammed Stationery, Steel Die Embossed. A Wide Variety of Die and Paper Styles and Quick Service. Mrs. Ida McCliff, of Tallahassee, Fla., is the interesting guest at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. Dr. and Mrs. Richards motored to South Carolina for Thanksgiving. They were accompanied by their daughters, Misses Mary and Jane Layton Richards. Mr. and Mrs. Doyle, of Baltimore, Md., are visiting their daughter, Mrs. Wilson MacConnell.

Suggestions

IVORY PYRALIN DuPont A complete showing of single pieces and sets of the fashionable designs and colors. In beautiful gift boxes to suit every taste and purse. Waterman Pens “Always An Acceptable Gift” THE WHITE DRUG CO.