THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

ATHLETIC NEWS

CRIPPLE CAROLINA’S CHAMPIONSHIP CLAIM

CHONG’S LETTER

Davidson, N. C.
November 6, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The Wildcats were turned back, 15-0 Saturday by the Wolfpack. That fatal fumble and an intercepted pass presented State with two touchdowns and the game. The Wildcats, even in defeat, showed flashes of real form. The biggest thing is that Cap’n Spratt showed all his old-time stuff and showed that he has gotten over that malaria that kept him out of the Wake Forest game and most of the V. P. I. game. Right there at the last of the State game Spratt opened up and twisted his way through for gain after gain. The Wildcats also showed a brilliant aerial attack that threatened time after time.

We are looking forward to big things against Carolina, Joe. Last year we tied them and the season before we won and it’s up to us again this year. Carolina beat State 14-9 and we lost to ‘em 15-0, but Carolina will have a hard time trimming us. Joe, Carolina has played six games and has been scored upon in every affair except the Trinity affair. The only defeat handed ‘em was by Yale and they sure played Yale some game. Look at our record though, Joe. It’s a lot worse than theirs but can Carolina boast of any greater game than the Wildcats played against V. P. I.?

Things have been breaking bad for us Joe, and we haven't always backed our team like we should. There was something in The Log of the U.S. Naval Academy the other day that went something like this:

“It’s easy to yell like a madman
When the team comes through like a shot
But it takes all your stuff
When the going is rough
So show all the spirit you’ve got.”

The scrapping Wildcats have got to win this game. The only way to win that Carolina game is for 500 wilder Wildcats to go down to Charlotte seeing red! The Wildcats have got to come across, Joe, and they're going to do it. What we’re going to do that game is to make Carolina’s wonder team wonder what’s happening. Charlotte and the alumni are depending on us to put Davidson where she belongs. It’s up to the student body to put this thing across. Some of the boys can’t realize that pep and yelling at the game isn’t all that counts. It’s the spirit BEFORE the game that counts. Before the Tech game we gave the team a big send-off but it was what went before that send-off as well as the send-off that helped the Wildcats to hold Tech. Last year the Wildcats stopped Carolina and just watch us this year. Frock Carolina.

The Charlotte Observer has in its headlines after the Trinity game that the Wildcats’ claws were clipped. A wounded animal scraps all the harder and the Wildcats are fighting for that Carolina game. The Wildcats aren’t willing to sit by and watch Carolina paint Charlotte red. There isn’t any alternative—when Tar Heels and Wildcats clash it’s down with the Tar Heels. There isn’t a team in the State that can beat Davidson when real traditional Wildcat spirit backs up the team. That's the way the Wildcats feel about it, so it’ll be Davidson Day on the 18th.

Cripple Carolina’s championship claims.

CHONG. D.

Next week finds two of our bygone opponents clawing at each other. V. P. I. and State meet at Norfolk in what should prove to be a mighty interesting game. Comparative scores through the Wildcats gave State a 15-point margin, but the records of the two teams aside from that game seem to give the Virginians about that margin on A. & E. North Carolina and V. M. I. will be another corker. The Flying Cadets and the Tar Heels are among the six undefeated Southern teams and are the only ones from Georgia to Pennsylvania who have not bowed to an opponent. The result will go far to determine the South Atlantic championship and will mean a lot to the winner.

CLASS BASKETBALL STANDING

| W | L | Pet. |
|---|---|-----|
| Sophs | 6 | 0 | 1.000 |
| Juniors | 1 | 1 | .500 |
| Seniors | 1 | 2 | .333 |
| Freshmen | 0 | 2 | .000 |

The Soph quint increased its lead in the race for the class rag last week by trouncing the Freshmen, 43-5, while the Seniors were beaten by the Juniors, 23-20, and dropped to third place in the standing. The Sophs have one of the greatest scoring aggregations ever seen on the Hill, while their passing leaves little to be desired. In three games the Sophs have rung up 109 points to 26 for the opposition or more than four points for every one made by their opponents. One game of the first round remains to be played off, the Junior-Fresh contest, and six games follow in the second round. The schedule for the remaining seven games is as follows:

November 10—Junior-Fresh.
November 14—Junior-Senior.
November 17—Soph-Fresh.
November 21—Junior-Fresh.
November 24—Senior-Soph.
November 28—Senior-Fresh.
December 1—Junior-Soph.

Junior-Senior Game

By winning Tuesday night, 23-20, the Juniors shoved the champions down to third place in the class standing. It was the Junior’s first victory of the season and they showed a complete reversal of form from their previous start. They jumped into the lead from the start and led 8-2. The Seniors then staged a comeback and went to the front 9-8. The Juniors forged ahead and at the end of the half were leading 12-11. The second half was as close and as hard fought as the first, the Juniors scoring 11 points and the Seniors 9, making the final count 23-20. The game was hard fought from whistle to whistle, and proved to be the most interesting of the season. The individual star of the evening was Frank Toney who dropped six shots into the basket from the floor and added four more points to the Senior score by shooting fouls, for a total of 16 points. Elkins, the Junior forward, also threw six through the hoop and played a great floor game. Seven fouls were called on each side and Toney converted four into points, while McBryde made three good.

JUNIORS (23) SENIORS (20)
Position
Boushe(2) ........... Toney (16) Forward Elkins (12) .......... Richards (0) Forward McBryde (7) .......... Gentry (2) Center Currie (0) .......... Bradley (2) Guard Brown (0) .............. Grey (0) Guard

Foul Shots: McBryde, three out of seven; Toney, four out of seven. Substitutions—Currie (2) for Brown; McConnell for Boushee; Mauze for Richards; Elliott for Grey; Striebich for Gentry. Referee—Beall.

Fresh-Soph Game

The Sophs beat their high score record by four points Friday night and walloped the Freshmen 43-5 as against the 39-5 licking handed the Juniors two weeks before. Presenting an almost impregnable defense, the Sophs allowed the underclassmen to shoot but one goal from the floor, and this, together with three foul shots, made up the Freshmen’s meager five points. Pete Mitchell tossed in eight of the 21 field goals made by his team from every angle and carried off high point honors for the evening. Staley garnered six while Ed Morrison made three long shots from the middle of the floor. Anderson and Ted Koenig also played a great game on the floor.

Marion Brice has the distinction of being the only candidate for a Master of Arts degree at Davidson for the year 1923. He came to Davidson in the fall of 1918, from the recesses of Alabama, from a spot called Marion Junction. Brice has distinctions other than those of scholarship, however. He showed up well in football during his Freshman year. During his sophomore year he received an injury to his knee that made football for that year impossible, but during his Junior year Marion was pushing the renowned Sam Brady for his old-time berth at center until another injury to the same joint laid him out of the game for the rest of the season. When the season of 1921 opened, the position of center was thought to be open but Brice soon had the position cinched and has had little quarrel for it since. Although Brice is comparatively light, he fills his position to the satisfaction of the most fastidious, and few are the gains made over the center of the Wildcat line. Brice is one of the few men on the campus who is able to combine football with high standing in his classes. While his name is not to be found on the honor roll, he is one of the best scholars on the campus. This is readily proven by the fact that he escaped from every examination last year. His specialty seems to be Physics since he has held the position of assistant in that subject for two years. Marion seemed to like the idea of playing football and not taking any exams for he returned to the den of the Wildcats to get his M.A. this year and has proven himself to be an invaluable man in the Wildcat line-up. He has made more than his share of tackles this year and he has been responsible for many gains.

Carolina’s victory over Tulane puts V.M.I. as the leading defensive team in Dixie. Only one touchdown has been made on the Flying Cadets, while no other team has been able to hold the opposition to less than two or three markers. V.M.I. has made 173 points to their opponents' seven. Lynchburg, Roanoke, N.C. State, Virginia, and Catholic University have all fallen in turn. In fact, it looks like the Cadets have a team like that of a few years ago that claimed the national championship.

The score stood 16-0 when Bachman tossed in a field goal for the Freshmen’s first counter. The Sophs continued to pile up the score and the half ended, 28-2. The Sophs were held to 15 points during the final period, while the Fresh made three points. In the last few minutes, the Soph scrubs went in and made one field goal. At this point, the game became a rough and tumble free-for-all and men were spilled all over the floor.

SOPHS (43) FRESH (5)
Position
Staley (3) .......... Davis (1) Forward
Mitchell (16) ........ Bachman (2) Forward
Anderson (6) ........ Speir (0) Center
Morrison (6) ........ Caddell (0) Guard
Koenig (0) .......... Lindley (0) Guard

Foul goals—Staley one out of two; Bachman, none out of four; Speir, one out of one; Davis, one out of one; Sprinkle, one out of one. Substitutions—Taylor (2) for Staley; Oeland for Mitchell; Brice for Anderson; Price for Koenig; Wharton for Morrison; Sprinkle (1) for Davis; Oden for Speir; Hunter for Lindley; Minter for Caddell. Referee—Toney.

DIXIE DOPE

Carolina continued to show an irresistible drive combined with a good defense and won a hard-fought game from Tulane Saturday, 19-12. Before the game, Tulane was unscored on and unbeaten and the Tar Heel victory means that a new power has stepped on the Southern football stage. To date, Carolina has won six games in the South, lost only to Yale, and made 152 points to 54 for their opponents. Wofford doesn’t look particularly dangerous as an opponent for the Wildcats, for last week the Terriers lost to P.C., 32-0. Even if Davidson plays the sort of game they did against the Presbyterians, they have a margin of 31 points.

Only four more weeks are left before football passes on and still there are six undefeated teams striving for the championship below the Mason and Dixon line. Auburn, Vanderbilt, Centre, North Carolina, V.M.I., and Ga. Tech will line up about in the order named. Auburn’s victory over Georgia and her great offensive power places her just about equal with Vandy for the lead of the bunch. Vanderbilt, by defeating Texas and Tennessee and tying Michigan, is held by many to be a better team than the Auburn Plainsmen. Centre will have an opportunity to show her full power and walk off with the “rag” when she meets Auburn at Auburn in the next week or so. Ga. Tech, V.M.I., and Carolina are on a slightly lower level but all of them have a chance to come out on top. W. & L’s upset at the hands of Virginia sends V.P.I. into third place as a scoring machine in the South. Alabama’s astounding victory over Pennsylvania raises the stock of the Crimson Tide way up yonder but defeats by Tech and Texas and a tie with Sewanee knocks all championship hopes out of reach. The leading offensive teams are: Auburn—245, opponents 35; lost 1. Centre—230, opponents 33; lost 1. V.P.I.—198, opponents 29; lost 1. W. & L.—183, opponents 47; lost 1. Alabama—182, opponents 50; lost 1. All except Auburn and Centre are practically out of the Southern race.

We Will Be Looking for All the Boys SATURDAY
Exclusive Men’s Shop
Make This Your Headquarters
Tryon Street, Charlotte, N.C.
Clothing and Furnishings