THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1922

WEEKLY LETTER

Davidson College, October 16, 1922.

Dear Joe:

That was some dose that was handed out to us last Saturday at Wearn Field. The Wildcats always have some
kind of a jinx trailing them and for the past couple of years it’s looked like the Wake Forest jinx.
As I wrote you last week, there was a chance of the Baptist lads gaining a little knowledge of the
game between the Carolina affair and the game we played Saturday. From the looks of things last Saturday, Joe, there
was considerable dope pickled in during the past couple of weeks. Boy, when Heckman pulled his work, that was a
mournful crew in the bleachers, but when Montague Clark stuck his big frame right spang up in front of the
pigskin a few seconds later, the crowd showed signs of reviving somewhat. The Heckman-Johnstone play was one of the best-executed
passes we’ve seen in a long time, but we would all have been glad to miss seeing it.

At times the play was mighty ragged on both sides, but on the face of things, I’d say the Wildcats
showed the superiority. They doubled the Wake Forest yardage on running plays and although Wake Forest gained 76 yards on
one pass, the Wildcats completed five and gained 84 yards by the aerial route.

Did you notice how one Charlotte paper was panning us up and down and saying that the Heckman crew ought
to have scalped us 13-6? Well, since prohibition came into effect, Joe, a vivid imagination is sometimes a mighty good
thing to have on hand when the real stuff is lacking. Well, to revert to plain everyday facts once more,
the Wildcats had three other chances to take the ball across while the Wake Forest bunch had one lone opportunity.
If they could have taken advantage of their chance while we flivvered on our three, the score would have been
12-6, Joe, but if every chance had been made good, it looks to me like a 24-12 verdict in the
Wildcats' favor. The Wildcats should have taken the ball over two or three times and the Baptists once, Joe, but
that’s no reason to turn to the Wildcats and say “You’re a rotten team!” and then turn to the Baptists
and say, “Tough luck, boys, you deserved to win!” The Wildcats have probably learned some lessons from this game and
now that this game is over, they just naturally turn their whole attention to next week’s contest.

Did you also notice, Joe, where one paper published it big that Heckman was just in three minutes! Well, Joe,
Heckman went in after four plays had been worked in the third period and stayed in till the final whistle,
which would make him be in nearer 20 minutes of the game. In fact, kid, when they pulled the miracle
pass, there were still five minutes and 20 seconds left to play. Three minutes probably sounds better though than 20
minutes for a hair-raising finish effect to the write-up.

A goodly portion of the assemblage, including the head linesman, seemed to think that Wake Forest ought never to have
had the chance to pull the pass. It was the fourth down and 14 to go. Hendrix shot a pass
to Mallory for what looked like a 15-yard gain and it was in Mallory’s hands when a black-jerseyed man jumped
into the picture by landing on Mallory’s back and the pass fell incomplete. If this foul had been called, it
would have been just down inside the 10-yard line, but about that time it seemed that the referee decided he
would discover the position of Mars in daylight without the aid of a telescope, so instead of a first down
for Davidson, it was Wake Forest’s ball.

Well, kid, you want to get up here Saturday to Homecoming day. V. P. I. is the big attraction that
day. You must have heard how Centre barely managed to squeeze through. The Gobblers saw red and the Praying Colonels
had to flash past at the wire to win 10-6. The Wildcats are the team to upset the dope though,
kid, so you’d better come up.

Yours, till later,
CHONG.

RESOLUTIONS PASSED BY GEORGIA SYNOD

The Georgia Synod in session in Augusta yesterday adopted the following resolution:

“In view of the present endeavor of Davidson College to restore its build-

The Davidson Wildcats, minus their fighting leader, Spratt, were held to a tie on Wearn Field last Saturday afternoon when
Heckman shot a 30-yard pass to Johnnie Johnstone, who raced down the field 45 yards to a touchdown. The final
score was 6-6. When the final whistle blew, the Wake Forest Baptists had staved off defeat for one more year.
Although the Wildcats made 12 first downs to the Baptists' five and outgained them, Heckman’s arm saved the Baptists from
defeat. In only one department of the game did the Baptists excel, and in that by a small margin. Fulton
outpunted his rivals by a four-yard margin. On running plays, the Wildcats more than doubled their opponents’ yardage and gained
more ground by the aerial route than their opponents. Twice, when within striking distance of their opponent’s goal, penalties helped
the Baptists to hold their lighter opponents. In the backfield, Hunt and Shepherd starred while Montague Clark and Brice played
the game of their life. Faison, Davis, and Mallory on the flanks shone both on offense and defense. Time after
time they broke up line plays and in receiving forward passes, their ability was uncanny. Wake Forest started off with
a rush and made two first downs, but the Wildcats stopped them and soon Montague Clark broke up a Baptist
punt and it was Davidson’s ball on the 29-yard mark. Hunt and Shepherd made it first down on the Baptists'
16-yard mark. Shepherd then ran through right tackle for a touchdown. He failed to kick goal. The only other score
of the game came in the fourth quarter when a Wake Forest pass netted 76 yards and a touchdown. On
three other occasions, the Wild-Cats advanced well within the 20-yard mark, while only once did the Wake Forest attack threaten,
when a fumbled punt gave Wake Forest the ball on the 15-yard line. On the next play, Brice threw Lowery
for a five-yard loss and after two futile efforts, the ball went over. The most exciting moment of the game
came after Johnstone had made his touchdown. The score was 6-6 and the try for point would decide whether the
Baptists would forge ahead. The crowd of more than 3,000 people was on its feet: Heckman was silent as the
ball was passed back and then as Heckman’s toe touched the ball, Montague Clark towered over it. The ball hit
his chest and the kick was blocked. Montague had saved the day for Davidson and also by blocking a punt
in the first period had paved the way for the Wildcats’ touchdown.

The game came as a big disappointment to Wildcat supporters but the letdown in the morale due to the sickness
of Captain Spratt Moore was evident. Spratt was forced to view the game as a spectator and Davidson followers are
hoping he will not have to play the same role in next week’s contest with the V.P.I. Gobblers.

The game play by play:

FIRST QUARTER

Brice kicked off 50 yards to Lowery who returned to the 29-yard line. Lowery gained five yards around right end.
Holmes made four over left guard. Brandon went through center for three yards and a first down. Lowery gained two
yards over left tackle. Fulton smashed through right tackle for six yards. Brandon made it first down with two over
center. Lowery made one and a half yards over right guard. Lowery failed to gain over right tackle. Fulton punted
over the goal line. Davidson's ball on her own 20-yard line. Hunt made five yards over right tackle. Hunt hit
center for six yards and a first down. Martin circled left end for one yard. Shepherd made seven yards over
right tackle. Shepherd fumbled and recovered for a four-yard loss. Shepherd punted 36 yards to Lowery who was downed in
his tracks. Wake Forest’s ball on their own 19-yard line. Fulton punted 30 yards to Hendrix who returned 20 to
the 29-yard line. Hunt made two yards over left tackle. Davidson was penalized 15 yards for holding. Forward pass, Hendrix
to Faison netted 12 yards. A forward pass, Hendrix to Davis was incomplete. Shepherd punted out on the 14-yard line.
Lowery circled right end for four yards. Brandon gained three over left guard. Brandon made one over right guard. Fourth
down and two to go. Clark blocked punt on the 29-yard line. Hunt smashed through right tackle for two yards.
Shepherd made six yards over the same place. Shepherd gained one and a half over left tackle. Hunt hit center
for four yards and a first down. Shepherd ran over right tackle 16 yards to a touchdown. Shepherd failed on
a place kick. Score—Davidson 6; Wake Forest 0. Brice kicked off 40 yards to Lowery.

(Continued on Page Eight)

GRID HASH

It's a rough road that the Wildcats have to travel this season if scores made during the past week are
any indication of the true strength of our opponents. This Saturday we entertain a team that has fought the idol
of Southern football, Centre, to a standstill and though they lost by the small margin of 10-6, all who saw
the game say that the Virginians deserved the victory. It will be an uphill fight this week but it takes
an uphill fight to show the Wildcats at their best. By comparative scores with Wake Forest, Carolina has 59 points
on the Red and Black and by virtue of their 10-7 victory over S.C. who last week beat P.C. 7-0,
the Tar Heels ought to beat us by 11 markers. Notice we say “ought to.” That is leaving the Wildcat
fight out of consideration. Another cloud that looms big on the Red and Black horizon is Furman, Georgia 7, Furman
0, means that Furman has a good team for Georgia is rated among the best in the South this year.
Georgia gained 220 yards to Furman’s 210 and the game ended with the ball in the Hurricane’s possession on the
Bulldog’s one-foot line and three downs to make it in. Too bad, Furman.

The skyline isn’t all black, however. The Wildcats can still be proud of holding Georgia Tech to the smallest score
this season. The much-touted Alabama team came to Atlanta but went home again with the score 33-7 against them. Trinity
looked rather weak last week in letting Carolina beat them 20-0, using the scrubs half of the game. But still
there is a difference between 20-0 and 62-3 and the Wildcats only tied Wake Forest. State revealed little strength in
beating Roanoke 13-0 for last week the V.M.I. eleven rolled over them 51-0. P.C. held the strong Clemson team to
a touchdown victory. Auburn and Centre lead the South as offensive teams, both having a 133-point margin on their opponents.
The big scoring machines line-up as follows: Centre 139, Opponents 6 in four games, Auburn 158, opponents 25 in four
games, Alabama 156, opponents 33 in three games, Tennessee 119, opponents 7 in four games, Chattanooga 96, opponents 0 in
two games, Georgia 130, opponents 33 in four games. Georgia and Auburn have been defeated in intersectional games while Alabama
was eliminated from the Southern race Saturday by Ga. Tech. Only four Southern teams have presented an impregnable defense so
far this season and none of these have played over two games. They are: Chattanooga 96, opponents 0. Tulane 60,
opponents 0, Georgetown 56, opponents 0, Vanderbilt 33, opponents 0. In the race for the Southern championship, Centre seems to
have the lead with Auburn, Vanderbilt, Tulane, Ga. Tech, Tennessee, North Carolina, and Virginia trailing somewhat in the order named.

D.L. HERE AND C.S.

Hollister, ’15, located at New Bern, N.C., is engaged in the general wholesale grocery business there. Mac Orr, ’10, is
in the mercantile business at Washington, D.C.
