THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1921.

ALUMNI NEWS

THIRTEEN DAVIDSON MEN TO GRADUATE FROM SEMINARY.

There are 13 Davidson men who will finish their work at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., this spring and go out to their ministry, namely, James L. Fowle, ’18, Washington, N.C., who has held the Moses Hoge Fellowship of Graduate Study during the year, and the following members of the Senior class:

T. R. Alexander, '19, Matthews, N.C.
E. G. Clary, ’16, China Grove, N.C.
R. W. Cousar, '18, Bishopville, S.C.
A. R. Craig, ’17, Pendleton, S.C.
W. M. Currie, ’19, Carthage, N.C.
J. K. Fleming, ’19, Barber, N.C.
J. Fraser, '18, Hinesville, Ga.
J. Hamilton, '17, Atlanta, Ga.
J. Mann, ’17, Mebane, N.C.
J. M. McBryde, '16, Red Springs, N.C.
J. E. McClure, ’20, Wilmington, N.C.
C. W. Worth, ’20, Wilmington, N.C.

There are 112 students at the seminary this year, a record attendance for our church. Thirty-four of them are volunteers for the foreign field, and 17 of the 34, that is just half, are from Davidson College. In view of the recent announcement that the financial condition of the Committee of Foreign Missions at Nashville will probably make it impossible to send out any new missionaries during the present year, these 34 volunteers have published an appeal to the Church, and it is earnestly hoped that there will be such a response to it as will make it possible to send out without delay all the volunteers who are ready.

Dr. James I. Vance, the chairman of the Assembly’s Committee of Foreign Missions, has been elected to deliver the James Sprunt Lectures at the seminary next session. The lecturer on this foundation this session was Hon. Wm. J. Bryan, and the volume containing his lectures has just appeared from the presses of Fleming H. Revell Co. It bears the title “In His Image,” and it is a volume of marked interest to all college men. Dr. Vance’s subject will be “The Preacher and His Message.” Ten volumes of these lectures have been published in the ten years since Dr. James Sprunt established the lectureship. One of these is a fascinating work entitled “Keynote Studies in Keynote Books of the Bible” by a distinguished graduate of Davidson, Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, ’84, now head of the department of English in the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis.

The Home Mission Messenger, of West Hanover Presbytery, speaking of the 13 summer workers employed in the bounds of that Presbytery last year, refers in terms of warm commendation to the Sunday School Institutes conducted by Mr. E. H. Hamilton, ’17, and Mr. Geo. C. Bellingrath, '18, students at Union Seminary. The addresses they made on Foreign Missions, illustrated with exceptionally fine stereopticon views, were unusually informing and impressive. The article goes on to say that the Presbytery has secured two other young men from the seminary to undertake a similar work next summer, namely, Mr. L. B. Schenck, ’21, of North Carolina and Mr. D. C. Shaw, ’21, of South Carolina.

DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS MADE DEAN OF CHICORA

John James, ’09, former president of Synodical College, Fulton, Mo., has been made dean of liberal arts and science at Chicora College. Mr. James was graduated from Davidson in 1909, receiving the A.B. degree. He took post-graduate work after his graduation and also acted as superintendent of the public schools of Davidson the following year. After attending the University of Virginia for one summer session, he was superintendent of various city schools in North Carolina for the next five years and was instructor in Greek at the Lincoln Memorial School, Lincolnton, N.C., during several summer terms. In August, 1914, Mr. James assumed the presidency of Synodical College, at Fulton, Mo., and during the time he was associated with the school in that capacity the growth of the institution was remarkable. During his administration the institution was established as an accredited school and substantial endowment obtained. May he go on to greater successes in his new work.

HERE AND THERE.

C. M. McCaskill, ’21, may be addressed at 1338 Oakland Street, Shreveport, La.
Dr. Henry Louis Smith is now at his home in Greensboro, N.C., recuperating from an attack of flu. He expects to return to Lexington, Va., the latter part of the week to resume his duties of president of Washington and Lee University.
Norwood Alexander, ’10, is now in Columbia Seminary, Columbia, S.C.
Friends of R. H. Poole will be interested to learn that he expects to graduate from Davidson this year.
W. T. Bailey, '66, of Greenville, S.C., stopped in Davidson between trains last week.
J. P. Williams, ’16, of Montreat, N.C., was on the campus a few hours one day last week.
A. L. Wilson, ’20, of Quincy, Fla., was on the campus last Monday.
Walter A. Johnson, '17, is a prominent banker in Mount Berry, Ga.
Sam Henry Cook, M.A., ’00, is dean of the Mount Berry School for boys at Mount Berry, Ga.
Rev. D. T. Caldwell, ’14, is pastor of the Immanuel Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, N.C. Mr. Caldwell is pastor of a growing and progressive congregation. A new church building, given by Dr. Sprunt, has just been dedicated.

CAMPUSISMS.

A. L. Wilson, '20, of Quincy, Fla., was on the Hill for the past weekend visiting old friends.
B. W. Romefelt, ’21, who is now located in Winston-Salem, was on the Hill for the weekend.
Owing to the inclement weather of the past week the infirmary has been a very popular place. At present it is filled with boys having colds and slight cases of grippe, but it is hoped that all of them will be out before the week is over.

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Steele spent the weekend at her home in Rock Hill, S.C.
The New Book Club met with Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Friday afternoon.
Mrs. Hood left last Friday for the bedside of her brother, who is very ill in Mississippi.
Miss Eloise Martin is visiting in Spartanburg, S.C., this week.
Mrs. Thos. W. Lingle is visiting her mother in St. Louis, Mo.

RANDOLPH-MACON BEATEN (Continued from page 1)

also of the Federal District Court, and Rev. Livingston Johnston, a prominent Baptist minister of Raleigh. The presiding officer was the principal of the Raleigh High School. Miss Graham, president of Peace, had a dinner in their honor before the debate and a reception afterwards. Despite the fact that the debate was held on a stormy night, the large auditorium of Peace Institute was almost filled with the student body and others interested.

LOCAL MAN ELECTED LEADER (Continued from page 1)

with conditions 50 years ago. He also discussed the diplomatic relations between China and Japan, strongly bringing out the fact that the only remedy for existing conditions is the blood-stained banner of Jesus Christ. Following his address Miss Miriam Goodwin and Mr. J. D. Stott, the N.C. Volunteer Union’s representatives to the last National Council, which was recently held...in New York, gave brief reports of this council meeting. Some interesting history of the Volunteer movement, which originated in 1886 by Rev. Robt. Wilder, was given by Miss Segsworth. Various committee reports were then received.

Saturday Night.
After receiving reports of the activities of the various bands of the state, the delegation from Meredith College presented a missionary drama entitled "The Two Masters." The splendid acting of the 10 actors well taught that it is impossible to serve God and Mammon and was also an appeal for foreign missionary work. The day was concluded with a really enjoyable informal reception in the Y. W. C. A. hut.

Sunday Morning.
Dr. C. W. Hooper, of Richmond, Va., taking his text from Heb. 11:10, urged that each person diligently search for God’s purpose for his life, and, having found it, to direct his energies toward the accomplishment of that purpose. The delegates then attended the morning services of the various churches of the city.

Sunday Afternoon.
Four foreigners, from their first-hand information, earnestly pled for our aid and prayers. Miss S. K. Sung, of China, appealed for the light to be sent to her country. Miss Victoria Adams told of the distressing condition of her people, the Assyrians, and pled for prayer especially. Mr. Lynn, of Korea, who has toured practically the whole world, gave an interesting account of the needs of Korea. Then Mme. Villedien gave the needs of Egypt, where she has labored for a number of years. Dr. R. H. Bennett, of Nashville, Tenn., uniquely told of the worthwhileness of the abundant Christian life. He stated that there is nothing mysterious about being a Christian worker and urged that all strive to find their true calling. The question box, which had been open for questions throughout the convention, was opened and the questions were read. Helpful discussions of them followed.

Sunday Night.
Many of the Volunteers spoke before the various young people’s societies of the city. Those who remained at the college attended the Y. W. C. A. vesper service. The speaker, Mr. Bland Roberts, gave a masterful talk on making Christ real. The closing session, conducted by Mr. Roberts, was turned over to receiving testimonies as to what the conference had meant to individuals and what they expected it to mean to their band. Several told just why they had decided to become foreign missionaries. At the close of this session, which proved to be the climax of the conference, several volunteered.

In General.
The singing was one of the most helpful parts of the convention. The Gospel singer, Mr. D. L. Manessa, by his calm leadership added lasting smiles and pleasure to the singing. In the front of the Adelphian Society hall, where most of the sessions were held, the watchword of the Volunteers, “The Evangelization of the World in This Generation,” was printed on a large cloth twenty by two feet. The badges worn by the Volunteers were also impressive. They bore the words, “Christ or Chaos—Which?” Mr. S. A. Maxwell, of Trinity, the retiring president of the N. C. Union, presided over the meetings. The new officers elected were: G. W. Weeks (Davidson), president; Miss Elen Black (Flora Macdonald), second vice-president; Miss Elizabeth Ferguson (G. C. W.), first vice-president; Miss Sarah Hamilton (N. C. C. W.), secretary; Mr. M. E. King (N. C. State), treasurer; Mr. M. J. W. White (Elon), business manager of the Volunteer; Miss Victoria Adams (Elon), associate business manager of the Volunteer; Miss Mary Wilkinson (Trinity), editor of the Volunteer; Miss Emily Mathes (Trinity), and Mr. J. D. Stott (Trinity), associate editors of the Volunteer; Guy Weeks (Davidson), official state representative to the next National Council meeting; Miss Edith Moore (Davenport), and Mr. A. B. Howard (Wake Forest), alternate delegates to the Council.

In two rooms, a number of interesting posters were displayed. Also, many interesting articles from foreign fields were shown. The wonderful fellowship at the convention will not soon be forgotten. The dynamic speakers made lasting impressions. Every delegate received invaluable inspiration. The convention marked the dawn of a greater day for the N. C. Volunteer Union.

Delegation.
Davidson was represented by R. Bitzer, H. O. Moss, W. T. Baker, G. E. Weeks, V. C. Hoye, W. T. Jones, K. E. Luckie, D. L. Mahood, Paul Patterson, Henry Patterson, Norman Patterson, Graham White, L. A. Taylor, A. P. Hudgins, A. M. McBryde, W. Z. Bradford, J. D. McCluer, C. K. Chien, M. W. McGill, D. H. Ogden, L. Horton, J. G. Choate, R. M. Cochran, M. W. Doggett, L. P. Burney, W. H. Moore, A. C. Ormond, Jr., M. R. Doubles, W. I. Buchanan, A. C. Wildman, Ed Cunningham, W. H. Bogart.

D. HAMILTON HOLT TO SPEAK
visited all the battlefronts of the Allied Armies as the official guest of the various governments. During this tour, he was decorated by the King of Greece and made an officer of the Order of George I. When the League of Nations was being drafted, Mr. Holt was in Paris, and Colonel House appointed him liaison officer between the American Delegation and the League to enforce peace. During this time, he was decorated by the French Republic and made an officer of the Order of Public Instruction, and Chevalier of the Legion of Honor, and by the King of Italy an officer of the Order of the Crown of Italy. Later, Mr. Holt toured the United States with Mr. Taft and others, speaking in favor of the League of Nations. In 1920, Mr. Holt again visited England, France, and Germany and has kept in close touch with affairs in our own country and abroad. He has been in attendance at the Conference on the Limitation of Armaments and any exposition he may make concerning America and the world will be based entirely on the gleanings he has gathered from the activities of inner circles. Mr. Holt, A.B., LL.D., Litt.D., has written two books that in themselves reveal the greatness of the man, “Undistinguished Americans” and “Commercialism and Journalism.” It is indeed an honor and a privilege for the students of Davidson to be able to hear a discussion by a man of such note on a subject of such importance. There is not a man at Davidson who in the last few years has not heard or read of Hamilton Holt, and it is with a great deal of pleasure and expectation that we welcome him to Davidson.

Miss Susie Jackson entertained a few of her friends with a candy pulling party Tuesday evening, in celebration of her birthday.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298.
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH
A wonderful sticking surface and 36 square inches of pure rubber. A substantial screw top box. A money-back guarantee with every box. Retail everywhere for 50c.
J.S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.

Peppermint
... aids digestion, and soothes mouth and throat.