THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

TOWN NEWS

The Misses Young have returned from a delightful trip through New England and Canada.

The many friends of Captain and Mrs. Weatherby are glad to know that they are to remain at Davidson. They
have taken rooms at Mr. Crawford's.

Miss Elizabeth Arbuckle, of W. Va., is here on an extended visit to her uncle, Doctor Arbuckle.

221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

MILITARY SUPPLIES OF QUALITY
Shoes, and Caps
Uniforms, Puttees
Cadet Officers Insignia.
Frank Wildman Watts
Representing SIGMUND EISNER CO., Red Bank, N. J.
THE M. C. LILLEY & CO., Columbus, Ohio.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. ~ Barbers
Next to Postoffice

EATS FOR THAT EMPTY FEELING

Miss Elizabeth Crawford spent the summer in Asheville, where she was engaged in kindergarten work.

A number of Davidson girls have recently left for various colleges. Miss Nina Holt White is attending Peace Institute, Miss
Kolista Hood, St. Marys, Miss Elouise Martin and Miss Sophia Richards, Converse; Miss Mildred Hobbs, G. F. C.; Misses Lois
Barnette and Sarah and Martha Hamilton, State College for Women, and Misses Nancy Grey and Sally Schenck, Winthrop.

The village schools have opened with a large attendance. J. C. Bailey, ’22 is principal. The corps of teachers is
the same as last year with the exception of the addition of Miss Susie Brady and Mrs. Carl Thompson.

Mr. M. M. Grey has resigned his position at the local oil mill and Mr. Sam Brady, '21, has taken
his place. Mr. Grey has become county welfare officer.

The many friends of Mrs. J. P. Paisley are delighted that she is recovering from a long and serious illness.

Mrs. Vinson and Miss Maud Vinson spent the summer at Rochester, Minnesota, with Dr. Porter Vinson. Three old Davidson students,
Drs. Vinson, Fred Rankin and William Sprunt, are now connected with Mayo Brothers Hospital.

Professor Reed, who was for three years assistant professor of mathematics at Davidson is to be at the head of
the department of mathematics at Hampden-Sidney College this year. Prof. H. B. Overcash, a former student and assistant at Davidson
is to teach biology at the same institution.

Mrs. Proctor has moved to Charlotte and Mrs. Olin White is occupying the Proctor home this winter. Mrs. L. R.
Smith has purchased Mrs. White’s former home on Concord street.

Mrs. Robert Harding and small son, Robert Jr., are the guests of Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding.

Mrs. Monroe and Miss Mary Monroe are making an extended visit in Columbus, Ga. During their absence, their home is
being occupied by Professor and Mrs. Theis.

The Misses Shumakers recently visited relatives in Charlotte and Mooresville.

ON THE CAMPUS

Misses Edith Gilchrist, Sarah Adelaide Mayer, Mary Speir, and Mr. M. B. Speir spent last Saturday on the Hill visiting
M. B. Speir, Jr., a member of the Freshman class.

Wm. Latta, ’26, fell while exercising in the outdoor gym and suffered painful injuries, breaking the small bone in his
leg and dislocating his shoulder.

The Glee Club Quartette composed of McLeod, Jones, Shepherd and Rawson attended the Davidson Campaign Conference in Fayetteville last week
and added much to the program with their snappy harmonies.

Mason Field requests all Freshmen desiring to earn pin money by selling Campus tickets to meet with him in his
room at the Gym, Friday night at 8 p.m.

Messrs. “Nick” Carter and J. P. Taylor of the Class of ’21 spent several days on the Hill last week.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

Chandler Beall, ‘18, is studying French at the University of South Carolina this year.

Among the Davidson men in the seminaries this year the following: H. B. Dendy, '19; J. W. Miller, '17, at
Columbia; W. C. Cumming, '18, and W. C. Frierson, '18 at Princeton; H. B. Frasher, '18, E. H. Hamilton, '17,
W. M. Currie, '19, J. W. Mann, '17, R. E. McClure, '20, and C. W. Worth, '20, at Union.

Rev. Jas. W. Brown, ’12, attended the Passion Play last summer in Oberammergau, Persia, where he is doing missionary work.

C. B. Sanders, ’22, spent a few days at Davidson last week before returning to his home in Texas. He
is to enter the Medical College of the University of Texas.

H. E. Wyman, ex-’21, has been one year to the Medical College of South Carolina in Charleston. He was a
visitor on the campus last week, going from here for his second year of medical training at the same place.

John Allen Thames, '18, passed the Law Boards of North Carolina and Washington, D. C., last summer. He graduated from
Georgetown University in Washington last spring and is planning to remain in Washington as secretary to Congressman L. H. Lyon,
of North Carolina.

W. W. Carter, ’21, is traveling for the Equitable Life Insurance Company. He visited Davidson recently.

Bennett, ’16, is studying in Southern Y. M. C. A. College, Nashville, Tenn. He is working for the degree of
Doctor of Physical Education. He visited the campus last week.

R. Alexander Halliburton, '17, is in mission work in Columbia, South Carolina.

Norman Shepherd, ex-’23, is the freshman coach at the University of North Carolina this fall and the physical director of
all athletics.

Lieutenant J. Woodrow Clark, '18, visited Professor and Mrs. O. J. Thies in Davidson last Sunday and Monday. He graduated
from West Point in 1920, and from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1922 as a civil engineer. Lieutenant Clark is now
on a leave of absence but will go soon to take up his duties at Camp Benning, Georgia.

Professors O. J. Thies, '18, and L. M. Currie, ’18, spent most of the summer at Cornell University, Ithaca, N.
Y.

Hugh K. Aiken, ’18, is now studying at Cornell University, where he expects to get his degree of Doctor of
Philosophy in February.

M. A. Siske, '19, and L. P. Good, ’20, were on the campus last Sunday.

M. R. Doubles, ’22, is going into business with his father this year. Temporarily he has given up the plan
of going to Johns Hopkins University.

G. P. Price, ’22, is in Johns Hopkins this year.

S. A. Robinson, '19, visited Davidson last Sunday.

C. L. Carr, ’98, whois the Secretary of Young People’s Work in North Carolina, was on the hill last week.
A.C. Ormond, Jr. ’22, is Faculty, Athletic Director of the Rocky Mount High School. He is also teaching science in
the school and coaching the R.M.H.S. team which bids fair to be a factor in the state championship. R. Mellwaine
and Ed Cunningham, both '22 men, are teaching in the Charlotte High School now. The former is Professor of Physical
Geography, while the latter is teaching Chemistry.

Some of the recent visitors on the campus have been Lieut. Woodson Clarke, '18; George Miley, '21, and “Bobbie” Long,
’21. At N.C. State, W.H. Bogart, ex-’24, is studying technical engineering. Mr. J.C.B. McLaughlin, ’22, is teaching Math in the
Augusta Military Academy this year at Fort Defiance, Va. Mr. Ted Cashion, ’18, together with his wife and little son,
spent several days on the hill the past week. Mr. Henry Carlbrath, ’21, is now located in charge with the
Equitable Life Insurance Company. Mr. “Mac” Richards, '22, is now at his home just across the campus. He is preparing
to enter Princeton later in the fall. Dr. P.B. Price, '17, is now at the Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore,
Md. This is his second year of intern work, he having finished his study of medicine at Johns Hopkins in
'21. Messrs. Coyt Hunter, C.N. Morrison, S.M. Query, all of Class of ’21, and D.R. Freeman, ’22, were here for
the presentation of the bell Sept. 14. H.A. Hill, ’21, of 904 Lexington Ave., New York, was a visitor at
the opening of the college. Dr. J.T. Wearn, ’13, sailed July 4, on the Aquitania for a two months study
in Vienna.

Dick McMillan, of the class of ’24, wishes to announce that if his girl does not write him by Thanksgiving
he will jilt her and start out in search of some other fair damsel to take her place.

The darker it is all around us, the stronger we should let our light shine.

MANAGING EDITOR’S CORNER

Them was the good old days when the new term was ushered in by a whoppin’ fresh parade. But after
all, a hearty handshake beats a pants warming. Alas! the days of third floor Watts are gone, but not forgotten;
we know you'd all be back again, but for weevils in the cotton. If you've got a kick coming, let
Coach Wooly tell you how to do it, then back it up with your whole soul. The Charlotte Observer told
us last week there are only two classes of lazy people in the world—men and women. We'll have to all
become angels, looks like. When the racing classic comes off next week in Florida, we wish to enter Davidson’s speedy
car, the Ray de la Montanya. Izzie was telling us the other night the trains through Arkansas aren't slow anymore.
Engineers know the place too well now—we don’t blame 'em for speedin’.

The Columns Stand

While the students were away during the summer, workmen have practically removed the ruins of the old Chambers building which
was destroyed by fire last year. As the flames played among the rafters of that historical old structure, they were
destroying one of Davidson College’s oldest traditions and a thing dear to the heart of all Davidsonians. After the fire,
the walls, which were still standing, were thought to be unsafe, so with the aid of ropes and dynamite they
have been leveled to the ground. Men were put to work cleaning and stocking the best of the brick, and
the rest were hauled away during the summer. The only thing that is left to remind us of the fact
that Chambers once graced our campus, is a part of the foundation and the four big columns which stood in
front. There is not a Davidson man who has ever walked between those old columns, who could bear to see
them destroyed. They stand out as monuments to the men who began their preparation for life beneath their shelter. May
they stand to see a new and better Chambers built in their background.

A Word to Graduates

A practical committeeman, in presenting diplomas last June to a graduating class, spoke as follows: “Girls, in presenting you these
diplomas, if, by their significance, you are led to allow your mother to do all the work, bake all the
bread, sweep all the floors because you can read Latin or demonstrate a theorem in geometry, then has your school
been a most unfortunate course, and in all the teachings you have ever received at my hands, I trust there
has been no lesson that has weaned you from the dish pan. Boys, if from this graduation you go out
into the world too nice to carry wood and swill the hogs, if need be, then has our school failed
in its purpose and sown the wrong seed.”—Ex.

Loyalty

What would life be without Loyalty? Loyalty is the finest fiber in the human breast—it rewards alike the humble and
the great—makes the small man big and the big man bigger. Take Loyalty from the heart of a saint and
you have the likeness of a devil. The greatest thing in life is man’s loyalty to man—that heart quality of
true manhood—that innate stamp of fair play which prompts us to hand out the square deal instead of the double
cross.—Selected.

Ted Jones, sighing as he looks at the moon, “Well, old top, you and I are in the same boat—we're
both on our last quarter!”

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS PIANOS Parker-Gardner Co.

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE CLAUDE LEE, Manager MATINEE 30c-20c NIGHT 60c-40c MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY Special Added Attraction Herbert Ashley and Company
In “An Unusual Vaudeville Specialty” Special Feature Peggy Cathcart Concert Violinist (Formerly with Cleveland) Ryan, Weber and Ryan A Musical
Comedy Breeze Pathe News Attraction Extraordinary Willie Solar The International Musical Comedy Star

MATINEE 3:30 P.M. NIGHT 7:15 and 9 P.M. Tony and George
