THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1922. 

ATHLETIC NEWS

Court Gossip

Anyone reading in the Charlotte Observer the account of the Davidson-Trinity game would have been unable to tell which one won the game. Headlines proclaimed that Davidson had defeated a crippled quintet, and the write-up beneath went on to tell what a wonderful team Trinity has. Davidson does not give alibis for lost games. Davidson profits by and forgets them, and all energies are centered on the coming contests. Moreover, statements made in the write-up conflict with each other and also with the story the scorebook tells, and, while not squealing about any defeats or near-defeats, Davidson does ask for a square deal and a decent write-up of her games, win or lose.

There is no desire here that the accounts of the games favor Davidson unless circumstances are such that it should do so in order to give a true account of the game. It has been also understood that ethics in journalism and sport writing require a non-partisan and true account of all events.

WILDCATS WIN THREE
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Position State
Beall (2) ----------------- Spriggs
Long (0) ----------------- Johnson (2)
Mauze (9) ---------------- Groome (2)
Crawford (6) ------------- Park (9)
Price (4) ----------------- Johnson (2)

Substitutions for Davidson: Ormond (4) for Mallory; for State: Leiper (6) for Long; Curtis for Johnson. Foul goals: Park, 5 out of 11; Crawford, 0 out of 4; Mauze, 1 out of 3. Referee: Doak, Guilford.

WAKE FOREST.

Davidson, after defeating State on her own floor, the next night duplicated the performance by trimming Wake Forest at Wake Forest. The score was 20-27, the two-point margin being obtained by superior work from the foul line. Both teams were evenly matched and at the end of the first half the score stood 12-11 in favor of the “Red and Black Machine.” During most of the game Davidson was able to maintain a short lead. In the middle of the second half Wake Forest shot into the lead by a margin of seven points but stellar work by Mauze and Crawford cut that down, and the Presbyterians finished strong with a burst of speed that carried them to the front.

For Wake Forest, Carlyle and Stringfield bore the brunt of the attack, with Carlyle slightly shading his teammate in speed and accuracy. The Wildcats again were a five-man team with Mauze the outstanding figure on attack and defense. This lanky center collected 13 points for the Wildcats during the fray. Beall played a nice game at forward caging the sphere three times when scores were needed. Crawford played his usual good game, ranging up and down the floor breaking up Wake Forest’s passing and helping advance the ball toward the Wildcat goal.

Lineup and summary:
Davidson Position Wake Forest
Beall (6) ----------------- Stringfield (0)
Mallory (4) --------------- Abernethy (14)
Mauze (13) --------------- Carlyle (7)
Crawford (4) ------------- Heckman (4)
Price (2) ----------------- Ellis (2)

Substitutions for Wake Forest: Greason for Carlyle; for Davidson: Ormond for Mallory, Mallory for Ormond, Boggs for Price. Foul goals: Mauze 9 out of 13; Abernathy, 6 out of 15; Carlyle 1 out of 1. Referee: Steiner of Trinity.

Elon Game.

On Friday night when the Wildcats played the Elonites in Elon gym, the goddess of chance, or some other director of destinies decreed that the Red and Black Machine should lose by the same method by which they won the night before. The Christians won the game by a score of 34-30, both teams shooting an equal number of field goals. Elon started the game off with a rush and at the end of the first half were leading by a score of 17 to 12. They were accurate in their shots, and passed well, showing the best form of any team encountered on the trip.

The Wildcats opened up in the last half and at one time were in the lead, which they failed to hold. Beall and Crawford did the best work for the Davidson quint, each collecting a trio of counters. Fix, Newman, and Brown did stellar work for the Elonites. Perry was very accurate from the foul line and his scoring free throws was the decisive factor of the game.

Lineup and summary:
Davidson Position Elon
Beall (6) ----------------- Fix (8)
Mallory (2) --------------- Newman (6)
Mauze (10) --------------- Brown (8)
Crawford (6) ------------- Perry (12)
Price (2) ----------------- McAdams

Substitutions: Davidson, Ormond (4) for Mallory; Mallory for Ormond, Elon none. Foul goals: Mauze 8 out of 11; Perry 12 out of 14.

Trinity Game.

The Wildcats tasted sweet revenge last Monday night when they defeated the fast Trinity quint at the auditorium in Charlotte by a score of 32-27. The defeat of Davidson at Trinity was completely wiped out for this game was played on a neutral court. The Wildcats sprang into the lead after the first whistle and during the entire contest were never headed. During the first half the wearers of the Red and Black had everything their own way, outclassing the Methodists in every department of the game. In the second half the followers of Wesley took a new lease on life and almost closed up the gap in the score, but the lead obtained in the first half by the Davidsonians was too great to be overcome.

The passing and teamwork of the Wildcats during the first half were the features of the game. For Trinity, Simpson and Spikes did the best work. Simpson especially was an accurate shot, caging the sphere five times, and also playing a pretty floor game. Mauze played a pretty floor game, shot fouls with accuracy and gave the opposing center a good time. Crawford played his usual dashing floor game and was in the midst of the fray all the time. Price materially helped to keep down Trinity’s score by his fast and close guarding. Ormond was the high point scorer of the contest, ringing the ball seven times from the field. Beall did good work, ranging up and down the floor, on defense guarding closely, and on offense helping bring the ball toward the hoop. Both teams were handicapped by a rather slippery floor and the game was slower than it otherwise would have been on that account.

Line-up and summary:
Davidson Position Trinity
Ormond (14) ------------- Spikes (13)
Beall (0) ----------------- Simpson (10)
Mauze (11) --------------- Richardson (4)
Crawford (5) ------------- Ritch (0)
Price (2) ----------------- Pennington (0)

Substitutions—Davidson: Davis for Mauze, Trinity—Brooks for Pennington. Foul goals: Mauze 3 out of 5; Crawford 1 out of 1; Spikes 7 out of 9. Referee: Mutrill (Army).

TAYLOR AND CUNNINGHAM GO TO CHARLOTTE FOR SOCIAL

Last Friday afternoon Ed. Cunningham and Tink Taylor motored over to Charlotte, where they spoke that night to the young people of the First Presbyterian Church. The young people meet once each month, at which time Davidson men will speak to them on “The Life Christ Would Have Us Live.” The meeting Friday night was held in the social hall of the church at 7:30, Ed. and Tink speaking, followed by the Columbia Seminary Quartette. Following the speeches a social hour was enjoyed at which time the quartette again entertained. Ed. says that the ice cream with the hearts in the middle was certainly grand, also the cake. There were about one hundred young people present and much interest was shown in the whole program.

PURDY AND PRICE ELECTED CLASS POET AND HISTORIAN

Freshmen Must Learn All College Songs and Yells.

When the Fresh class was called to order on the night of February 8th, in Shearer Hall, there were several things to be decided upon, and discussed. The Vigilance Committee had announced that they had some things to tell the class, and Lowry acting for them, let it be known that the Fresh class was to be called on, in a short time, to prove their knowledge of Davidson’s songs and yells. Lowry then announced that the amount at first asked for the football sweaters was insufficient, and, saying that the class of '25 was expected to measure up to its own standard, and to do what it was asked to do, he introduced MacRichards of ’22, and Bob Davidson, of ’23, who told, as an incentive to the Freshmen, what their respective classes had done. The meeting was then turned over to President Hendricks. The class voted a small assessment to make up the deficit on the sweaters. It seemed that when, at the first of the year, the Freshmen had agreed to keep the “Y” room straight, it was understood that each man was to be told when to report for duty. As nothing had been done during the fall term along that line, the class again expressed its willingness to do this. As neither the Class Poet nor Historian had been elected at the regular class election some time ago, this was done. The office of Class Poet went to W. W. Purdy, while H. B. Price was chosen Historian.

D.

POLITY CLUB DISCUSSES THE JAPANESE QUESTION

The Polity Club held its regular meeting on Tuesday, February 7th. All the members were present and the topic for discussion was “Japan, Past and Present.” Three excellent papers were read, the first being by Bob Davidson. It was entitled, “Japan and Her Part in World Peace,” and dealt with Japan in the past. W. H. Sharpe then read a paper “Japan Today,” dealing with present-day Japan in her connection with other nations. The third article was a thesis by D. H. Ogden on “Conference on Limitation of Armaments.” Each paper was followed by a lively discussion. The program for the next meeting of the Polity Club will deal with the subject: “Economic Conditions of the World, Relative to the United States.” There will be a paper on “Economic Conditions in Germany, Relative to the United States,” and one on “Economic Conditions in the Philippines, Relative to the United States.” There will also be a discussion of the “Farmers’ Bloc,” which is making the sturdy “Old Guard” sit up and take notice, and also of the Hague Conference which is to continue the work of the Washington Conference and endeavor to readjust Europe’s tangled economic situation.

D.

NEW MEN INITIATED INTO FRATERNITIES AND CLUBS

Bid day this year came later than usual on account of the exams coming after the Christmas holidays. But on last Monday the fraternities on the hill increased their numbers by initiating the following men:

Beta Theta Pi—Boggs, R. E.; Harris, W. C.; Marrow, T. F.; Oeland, R. W.; Patton, J. H.; Peters, A. W.; Regen, C. D.; Robins, W. N.
Kappa Alpha—Anderson, J. C.; Bachman, J. S.; Carter, W. H.; Milhous, J. F.; Mitchell, F. T.; Staley, F. W.
Kappa Sigma—Hendrix, J. P.; Koenig, T. H.; Malloy, A. D.; McAlister, A. W.; McPherson, H. C.; Neisler, H.
Pi Kappa Alpha—Ballard, J. F.; Bethea, D. M.; Brown, T. B.; Covington, J. M. C.; Hunt, J. C.; Littlejohn, R.; Wharton, D. B.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Baker, J. D.; Briggs, J. R.; Brown, A. C.; Rice, J. O.
Bachelors Club—Beall, M. S.; Hastie, B. F.; Lake, J. A.; Liles, R. V.; Mallory, D. F.; Montgomery, F. R.; Morrison, E. T.; Walker, R. W.

LITERARY NEWS

SIGMA UPSILON FRATERNITY ENJOYS LITERARY PAPERS

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held its regular meeting in the Kappa Alpha Hall Wednesday night. Prof. E. J. Erwin, who is president of the national fraternity, read an interesting review on the “Mirrors of Washington.” Dr. J. M. McConnell made a talk on James Brice, a noted English political scientist and diplomat. Refreshments, which were enjoyed by all, closed the program.

D.

CLIPPING DEPARTMENT IS DAILY USED BY STUDENTS

During last week more than three thousand newspaper articles were distributed in the clipping department. This represents most of the gleaning of the current papers during November, December, and January. The clipping department, begun in 1910, now carries more than four thousand subjects. The newspaper articles relating to and during the war period are in separate cases and envelopes. In addition to being used constantly in the library work, packages are made up from the material so stored, and loaned to individuals, clubs, debating teams, etc.

D.

L. A. TAYLOR IS SELECTED TO HEAD METROPHILIANS

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society Thursday night was marked by the election of new officers. L. A. Taylor was elected president to succeed W. M. McLeod, whose term expires at the next meeting. J. D. Lernhardt was elected vice president; H. D. Fenton, secretary; G. N. Neel, first critic; J. M. Adams, second critic; and G. M. Hodgin and G. M. Morrow, supervisors. The subject for regular debate was “Resolved, That Japan should be given economic control over Shantung and Korea in order to develop their natural resources.” It was one of the most interesting debates of the year and Messrs. McCain, Carr, and Morrow for the affirmative, and Messrs. Fenton, Brown, and Hodgin for the negative upheld their respective sides in a lively manner. Declamations by Messrs. J. D. Brown and W. A. Patterson carried out and upheld the fine program started by the debate. In all, it was one of the best programs of the year and showed that the Metrophilian is on the go. W. M. McLeod was elected Valedictorian and L. P. Burney respondent for the approaching commencement exercises. Messrs. McBryde, Uzzell, and Wolfe were taken into the society and duly initiated as members.

D.

TWELVE NEW MEN INITIATED INTO THE PANDEINIC SOCIETY

Two unusual features marked the meeting of the Pandeinics on February ninth. The first of these was the taking into the society of 12 new members, ten of them being Freshmen. The election of Pandeinic representatives for an inter-society council also took place; J. C. Bailey and J. P. Price were elected. Wallace Moore then presented a paper on current events, consisting of up-to-date news on topics ranging from the Peace Conference to athletics. The debate followed. P. H. McAlpine and C. A. Young then showed clearly why Japan should have economic control over Korea and Shantung. McAlpine had numerous references on hand with which he enforced his points and Young brought out his points in a clear forceful way. They were opposed by T. M. Lowry and D. B. Walthall. Lowry showed thorough knowledge of the subject and Walthall had a logical, carefully prepared debate. The negative won. S. C. Fain then gave a declamation, “The Kissing Game,” author unknown. An outline of the purposes and standards of the society, given by T. M. Lowry for the benefit of the new members, concluded the program.

D.

EUMENEANS HAVE SPIRITED DEBATE ON JAPAN’S POLICY

Last Thursday night the Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting at 7:15 in the Eu hall. After the devotional exercises, the question: Resolved, That Japan should have economic control over Shantung and Korea, was debated. Those on the affirmative were: Elliott, McCutchen, and Sharpe, while Hollingsworth, Moss, and McGukin upheld the negative. The debate was good and had more pep than has been seen in the meetings for some time. After the debate a declamation was given by Moffett and an oration by Biddle. The newly elected officers were then installed. After Rolston Bitzer had taken the oath of office as president, he delivered his inaugural address, in which he outlined plans for the spring term and gave some good suggestions for improving the meetings of the society. A most successful term is certain if his plans are carried out.

D.

Rev. and Mrs. Samuel Polk, of Lawrenceville, N. J., recently visited their son, J. M. Polk, ’25.

Spring Goods

MELLON’S

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.

SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faul, Mgr.
Phone 902
18 E. Trade St.