THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1922.

ATHLETIC NEWS

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

No. 4. George Millard King, '18.

D* Football
D** Basketball
D Track.

George King, of Bristol, Tenn., is one of the few athletes who have won the “D” in three branches of sport. George played on the Wildcat’s left wing for two years and captained the best grid team which Davidson has ever turned out; he played left forward for three years in basketball; and in his senior year he roamed around the hot corner of the diamond. In 1915 George won his “D.C.” and for the next two years starred at left end. He has the honor of being the only man to cross Georgia Tech’s goal line during the 1917 season. In the fourth quarter of that memorable contest which the Jackets finally won 32-10, George received a 29-yard pass from Burns and stepped off 25 yards to the goal line. His defensive playing also puzzled the Tornado and he threw Strupper for several losses. The Washington Times, speaking of his great work says: “King’s work all season stamped him of All-Southern material. Twenty-two years old he stands 5 feet 10 inches and weighs 150 pounds. Good at regular end work King stands out as a wonderful receiver of forward passes. It was this skill that enabled him to score against Georgia Tech.” Along this same line George scored a touchdown against V. P. I, V. M. I, Auburn and Clemson, with two against Wake Forest, and four against Wofford. Eleven touchdowns, ten via forward pass route, is the record which he hung up for his successors to shoot at.

In the cage game King’s work was nothing short of spectacular. His last two seasons he ran his point total well above the century mark and in one game tossed in 15 field goals. Although batting only .150 George fielded like a big leaguer and hit in the pinches. His three-ply swat in the Carolina game won an 11-inning pitchers’ battle for Dutch and his few hits came at opportune times.

D. ILL’S | ALL U-LL

Attention! S.A. T. C.

Babe Ruth is one guy that’s sure of getting a bonus, regardless of what Congress does!

Wildcats!

Pat Crawford is still showing the way to the other Wildcat timber-swingers. The big Irishman has mauled out 20 hits for a total of 31 bases, and has an average of .432. He also leads the regulars in the field with an average of .987.

Queens!

It’s rumored that some of the expensive sex from the Queen City are coming up Saturday with the avowed intention of taming some Wildcats. Hold ’em, gang!

Wildcats!

Coach Grey’s squad dropped another meet last Saturday but we're willing to bet our dormitory toothbrush that someone will have to step lively to head them in the State meet on the 5th of May.

Wildcats!

Carolina managed to get a tie in football last fall, to avoid Coach Dutch’s Poison Squad in basketball, and to luck a 2-0 win in baseball. But it’s a long road that has no turning and the detour signs point toward Winston-Salem for Friday. The city made famous by Prince Albert, Salem College, Carolina-Davidson games, and Gig Shepherd, should see a display that would make Ann Pennington singing jazz music, Babe Ruth hitting home runs, Man o’War making a driving finish, and the Six Brown Brothers tickling the saxophones look like a side-show in the “Mighty Hoag.”

Another pleasing honor that has recently come to Dr. Thos. W. Lingle is a “Victory Medal” received from France, sent by the Minister of War of that country.

ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION NAMES SHEPHERD PRESIDENT

The election of officers for the Athletic Association for 1922-23 was held Tuesday, April 18th. W. S. Shepherd, G. B. Sorrells, and G. W. Mauze were nominated for the presidency. Two ballots were necessary and Shepherd was elected as the next president. For vice-president, M. A. McBryde, M. D. Field and C. M. Davis were nominated. Field received the majority of the votes. T. H. Koenig was elected secretary and treasurer. Those nominated were Beall, Koenig and Austin. The outgoing officers, under the leadership of McFadden, have managed the affairs of the association in a very capable and successful manner, and it is certain that it is under excellent direction for the coming year, and that the new officers will carry on the work with the greatest earnestness and success.

GEORGE MAUZE ELECTED TO CAPTAIN 1923 BASKETEERS

At a recent meeting of the basketball letter men George Mauze was elected captain of the Wildcat five for the coming season. A more fortunate selection could not have been made for “Warhoss” combines a winning personality with that old fighting spirit that carries a team on to victory. From the time he entered college Mauze’s name has been connected with seasons he was the life of his class team and last year by a never-say-die spirit led the Juniors to victory in the class series. From class to varsity was now the season of '22 found him at the pivot position on Coach Hengeveld’s “poison squad.” Here his fighting spirit was more in evidence than ever and old “Warhoss” could always be heard urging the team to fight and then fight some more. At center he could always be counted on to get the Wildcat’s plays off in fine order and his shooting was nothing short of phenomenal. During the past season he rang up a total of 146 points, more than the forwards combined. Mauze received no more than he deserved when he was selected center on the All-State crew of 1922. Great things are expected of “Warhoss” next year.

PLANS FOR FIELD DAY ARE PRACTICALLY COMPLETED

Large preparations are fast being completed for the Field Day events which are to take place here Saturday. More than a hundred men from the various classes are getting themselves in trim for the races, broad and high jump, pole vault, discus, shot put, javelin throw and other events. The number of men who are participating and the wonderful spirit that they are putting into the work shows that each class is confident of winning first place in more than one event.

An invitation has been extended to the girls of Queens College, asking them to enjoy the exercises of the day. If the invitation is accepted, it will add a great deal in making the day a large success, and put much more “fire” into the occasion.

A few years ago Field Day was the most important athletic event of the year at Davidson. At that time there was no team selected in track to represent the college in intercollegiate meets. After teams were selected, Field Day dwindled down, but recently it has crept back into existence. It is earnestly desired to make it all that it used to be and more.

Movable schools for the children of migratory laborers in the San Joaquin Valley of California are conducted by the State Board of Education. The schools move from place to place with the laborers as these keep up with the harvest.

“A college cannot make brains; it merely trains them. It usually makes a smart man smarter, and a fool a bigger fool.”

ANALYSIS OF YESTERDAY’S RED AND BLUE CONTEST

(Continued from page 1)

At the close of the fighting; the Red forces were beating a strategic retreat; the Blue forces were organizing the newly occupied terrain.

Before any attempt is made to point out the lost opportunities and mistakes of yesterday, it might be well to sketch the course of the several units engaged in the fighting (see map). “C” Brigade, under McIlwaine, operating as the Blue left, advanced from their positions south of the Concord Road in a general northeasterly direction toat-| WAKE FOREST WINNER STATE | tack the Red center and right. Passing} PEACE ORATORICAL CONTEST lover the crest along the Grey’s Farm | pares alo Road, they came under a withering ma-! Elon, Trinity, Davidson, Guilford, Car- | chine gun fire and were roughly han- | olina, Others Listed by Judges. | dled. However, by dint of hard fighting | patron en they managed to cross Hoyt’s Creek and) -On Friday evening the 21st of April, in advance some distance up the farther | the Municipal Theatre at Burlington, slope ere night fell. | Mr. J. S. Thomas, of Wake Forest was | “B” Brigade, under Lowry, operating | awarded first place in the State Peace as the Blue right, likewise advanced | Oratorical Contest, and with it the $75 from positions south of Concord Road first place prize. Mr. R. O. Smith, of and east of the positions occupied by | Elon secured second place and the $50 “C.” “B” advanced against the Red cen- | prize, and Mr. N. M. West, of Trinity ter and left. Advancing through the | third place and the $25 prize. wooded areas to the north of Concord — Davidson, represented by Arnett Gam- Road in a general northeasterly direction | ble was awarded fourth place and Gam- they emerged therefrom to encounter a | ble received 12 pairs of socks and three deadly machine gun fire from the Red | ties. Mr. Thomas English, of Guilford, left. After severe losses they gained | received six pairs of socks and three ties the crest just north of the Grey’s Farm | as the fifth place prize and Mr. B. C. Road and, passing over it, were subject- | Brown, of Carolina received a dictionary ed to a still heavier fire from almost the | as the sixth place prize. N. C. State's entire Red line. Advancing with fixed | representative did not arrive. The fourth, bayonets, they crossed Hoyt’s Creek and | fifth, and sixth place awards were penetrated the woods just north of that | courtesies of manufacturing and other stream. | concerns of Burlington. | “D” Brigade, under Miller, was held | The winning speech was “Racial As- in reserve by Phillips. Advancing from | pects of the Peace Problem.” Mr. basketball, class and varsity. For three! south of Concord Road and from posi- | Thomas, a member of the Wake Forest | H tions approximately in rear of “B,” it Glee Club, has a deep mellow voice and advanced in a northeasterly direction | clear enunciation, advantages which in through the eastern edge of the wooded | the minds of the judges the other speak- area that lies north of Concord Road | ers were unable to overcome. Mr. but a short step for the big center and | Smith, of Elon, spoke on “World Har- and south of Hamilton Creek. They | mony” and Mr. West, of Trinity, on were kept beyond the range of the en- | “National Seclusion vs. International emy’s observation. Late in the after- | Co-operation.” The manuscripts of the noon, debauching from the woods south- | first and second place men will be sent east of the junction of Hamilton Creek | in for the national contest, in which with Hoyt’s Creek, they attacked the | there is a prize of $50 offered. Red left on the flank and rolled it back | before them. | The Red forces all retired in a north- | westerly direction to a line prepared in | advance. The extent of their retire- | ment is as yet unknown. Apparently it | was carried out in excellent order. | In discussing the mistakes made in | yesterday's fighting, let us remember | two things: (1) The Red commanders | are not mentioned because of the fact that accurate information as to the Red movements has so far been unattainable. | (2) It is easy to find mistakes after it is all over—when one sits back at home in a swivel chair far from the rush and turmoil of the actual fighting. Today we will discuss five major errors. (1) “C” Brigade having advanced over the Grey’s Farm Road crest encountered such heavy fire that it was unable to advance. It was held midway down the slope, no attempt being made to advance to the protection of the low bushes along Hoyt’s Creek or to withdraw—back of the crest. (2) “B” Brigade advanced from the woods just south of Hamilton Creek in the open territory north of that stream in such formation as to offer a most ex- cellent target to the enemy. In conse- quence of this they suffered severe losses. It would seem that they should have emerged from the wooded area in question nearer its western extremities and then in a more extended formation. Such an egress would have placed them well under the protection of the Grey’s Farm Road crest. (3) “D” Brigade having advanced over the Grey’s Farm Road crest, was held on the forward slope in the face of a galling fire from which they lost heav- ily. It would seem that they should have been held in rear of the crest un- til the enemy’s strength had been ascer- tained or else should have been return- ed there, the strength of his fire having been ascertained. (4) In the general advance the Blue commander lost contact with his wings —for long periods of time he did not know what his right and left were do- ing. This was due to the haste with which the wings moved to the attack. It would seem that the advance should have been halted—a very short time would have sufficed—just south of the Grey’s Farm Road and under the pro- (Continued on page 6) . C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President CAPITAL, SURPLUS. (Cer ce cyt { We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size The Commercial National Bank CHARLOTTE, N. C. ETC. OVER $1.000,000.00 pao geeeeeeese te NONE TOO LARGE A..T. SUMMEY, Cashier . I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier T. S. McPHEET! » Assistant Cashier CCC LCL CL CCL