THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 3, 1922.

ATHLETIC NEWS

Court Gossip

Last week the Wildcats returned from the first 100 per cent trip ever taken by a Davidson basketball team. They won every game on foreign courts, beating two of the best teams in South Carolina.

—Wildcats—

This year’s basket tossers have won three-fourths of their games. Only one team has made more goals from the floor than Coach Hengeveld’s “Arsenic Aggregation.” That team was Guilford. Elon and Trinity bested the Wildcats on their own courts by superior foul shooting.

—Wildcats—

Total points, Davidson 378; Opponents 300.

—Wildcats—

In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of—Baseball. Get out the old spiked shoes and worn glove and help Coach Hengeveld put out another winning combination.

—Wildcats—

The Wofford-Davidson game in Spartanburg was an example of the old Davidson pep and fight. The score was tied no less than seven times during the fray. Wofford led at the end of the first half by five points, but the Wildcats staged a comeback and led at the close of the game by five points.

—Wildcats—

To Coach Hengeveld is due most of the credit for the smoothness with which the basketball team works and also their never-say-die fighting spirit. Hats off to our All-American coach who is a true Davidson man in every respect.

—Wildcats—

Let’s get in behind the track team this spring and help Coach Grey win the state honors. The prospects are bright and the proper support will help bring home the bacon.

—Wildcats—

Below is the individual scoring list of the basketball team:

Mauze .......................... 140
Crawford ..................... 98
Ormond ....................... 86
Mallory ....................... 28
Beall ............................ 28
Brigham ..................... 18
Davis ............................ 10
Total ........................... 408

DAVIDSON WILDCATS CLOSE FINE SEASON

(Continued from page 1)

Wofford Game.

After trailing the Wofford Terriers for three quarters of the game, the Wildcat quint, led by Cap Pat, unloosed a whirlwind attack and annexed the second straight game from the Methodists 30-25 in a fast and peppery contest at Spartanburg last Wednesday night. Seven times during the fray the count was knotted, but by accurate passing and sure shooting the Presbyterians forged ahead and trimmed the Methodists by a quintet of counters.

The Wofford quint started off strong and held the Wildcats down during the initial period, holding the long end of a 13-8 count at the intermission. The 13 proved to be the Terriers’ jinx and the Wildcats pawed and clawed their way through the Terriers, piling up 22 points to 12 during the second spasm. The Poison Squad was at sea on the small floor during the first half but in the final period they hit their stride and left the Terriers hopelessly in the rear.

Cap Pat led the attack during the final session and coming up the floor he caged four baskets, bewildering the Terriers by his floor work. Playing running guard, he ran through the Methodists’ defense and shot the sphere through the meshes time after time. Besides Pat’s offensive work in the second half, which the Wofford quint was unable to stop, Warhoss Mauze at center played a pretty game for the Red and Black. Collins and Dillingham were the individual stars for the losers, each garnering eight points apiece.

The Terriers showed splendid teamwork but were unable to keep the Red and Black inside their defense and as a result the Wildcats were able to pile up the score. Although the teams were scrapping every minute, only four fouls were called on Wofford and seven on Davidson. Warhoss converted two of these into counters, while Lindsey rang up five. The entire Wildcat quint played fine basketball, showing skill in passing and speed on the floor. Curtis Ormond, at forward, played a steady game and added four tallies to the Presbyterians’ score. Warhoss and Pat each dumped in five from the field, but Warhoss with two foul goals to his credit gained high point honors for the evening. Beall and Mallory also showed up well at the other forward position, while Junebug played a good game at guard.

The line-up:

Davidson. Position Wofford.
Ormond(4) .......... RF .......... Collins (8)
Beall(0) .............. LF .......... Lindsay(5)
Mauze(12) .......... C .......... Tillinghast(4)
Crawford(10) ...... RG .......... Dillingham(c) (8)
Eng(2) ................ LG .......... Rogers (0)

Substitutions—Davidson: Mallory (2) for Beall. Wofford: Stokes for Dillingham. Foul goals: Mauze 2 out of 4, Lindsay 5 out of 7.

Wake Forest Game.

“We have met the enemy and they are ours.” The immortal words of Commodore Perry were never more appropriate than they were last Monday night, when Dutch Hengeveld’s Battling Poison Squad triumphed over Wake Forest by the count of 36-27. The game was the roughest and yet the fastest played on the local court this year.

There are “breaks” in every basketball game, and Monday’s was no exception. The Wildcat’s guardian angel was on the job, and even the most ardent Red and Black rooter will have to admit that Davidson got her share of the breaks. But any crew that can hang up a nine-point victory over a team that has the scalps of Elon, Guilford, State and others hanging in their trophy room, must have something in its system besides horseshoes and four-leaf clovers.

Slashing, driving and battling with a determination that has resulted in the best team in the history of the school, the Wildcats went wild. Captain Pat Crawford went worse than wild, tearing up the floor with the speed of a fiend, ringing up spectacular shots from all corners of the floor and smashing into every play that gave promise of resulting in Wake Forest counters. The premier guard in the state hung up six field goals. After being on the short end of the count for the majority of the first half, Davidson made a desperate rally, tying the count 18-18. The score was tied five times in this half. The second session started much like the first, Crawford keeping the Wildcats in the running.by “meshing” three long ones. Ormond then chipped in with a trio of field goals and the count stood 30-27 with three minutes to play. Ole Warhoss Mauze then awoke from his lethargy and carried on right nobly, making six points and putting the game on ice. Stringfield and Heckman are a pair of the fastest dribblers seen here this season. When they started they seemed to be unstoppable, but both had difficulty in locating the goal. Carlyle also played well, making 17 points. Nine of these, however, were from the 15-foot line. Ormond and Mauze, in addition to Captain Crawford, rendered the most spectacular performances for Davidson. Davis also fought like a demon but was put out of the game on personal fouls.

Summary
Davidson (36) Position W. Forest (27)
Ormond (12) ------- R.F. ------- Stringfield (2)
Beall (0) ----------- L.F. -------- Greason (8)
Mauze (8) --------- C. ----------- Carlyle (17)
Crawford (12) ------ R.G. -------- Heckman (0)
Price (0) ----------- L.G. -------- Hough (0)

Substitutes: Mallory (4) for Beall, Davis for Price, Price for Davis. Fouls: Mauze 2 out of 4, Carlyle 9 out of 11. Referee: George (Va.).

DEBATERS MEET RANDOLPH-MACON IN RALEIGH FRIDAY

The third annual debate between Davidson and Randolph-Macon will be held the evening of Friday, March 3rd, in the auditorium of Peace Institute, Raleigh, N.C. The subject of this debate will be, “Resolved, That Congress should provide for a department of education under a secretary who shall have those duties and powers set forth in the Smith-Towner Bill.” This bill has been widely discussed in the immediate past and a very interesting debate is promised.

The men who have been chosen to represent Davidson in this debate are P. D. Miller and J. H. McKeithen, with D. H. Ogden acting as alternate. These men are well known in college debating circles. McKeithen was a speaker on one of Davidson’s debating teams last year while Miller acted as an alternate. Randolph-Macon will be represented by M. A. Michael and H. C. Blackwell, with George Hamilton serving as alternate. These men are also well known in the realms of college debating.

Davidson and Randolph-Macon have met in forensic struggle on two former occasions. The first of these debates was held in 1920 at Ashland, Va., and the judges awarded the decision to Randolph-Macon. The second debate was held last spring at Davidson, and Davidson received the decision. The winner of the coming debate will, therefore, be the winner of the series between the two colleges. In order to make it as fair as possible to each college, the debate will be held in neutral territory.

METROPHILIANS STAGE A MOCK TRIAL OF INTEREST

The largest crowd ever seen at the Metrophilian Society was present at the last meeting to witness a mock trial. Defendant P. C. Henderson was charged by the plaintiff, J. R. Abernethy, with having made the false statement that the said plaintiff had “never cracked a book” at Davidson, and the defendant was being sued for slander to the amount of fifty thousand dollars. The attorneys for the defense were Fred Smith and Bernhardt, while Parks and Wooten represented the plaintiff. Prof. A. Currie presided over the court and Sheriff Kimsey had difficulty keeping order until he had marched one offender up to the judge’s bench and fined him ten dollars for disorderly conduct.

There was very little trouble experienced in getting a competent jury, although one would-be juryman was discharged for having failed to pay his last year’s taxes. None claimed kin with either plaintiff or defendant, and those asked were able to prove they were over twenty-one. The jury was impaneled by the clerk, John Adams, and the trial began.

The plaintiff maintained that the defendant’s false words had caused him (the plaintiff) great mortification, and loss of caste among his fellows, and had brought about his father’s disinheriting him. The defense based its case on the truth of the defendant’s words. Witnesses were freely used by both sides. When all the evidence was in, Judge Currie charged the jury that if Henderson’s statement was true, he was thereby acquitted; if untrue, it was up to the jury to determine the amount of damages. The jury brought in the verdict that the defendant’s statement was true, and Henderson was automatically acquitted.

PI KAPPA ALPHA HALL IS BEING GIVEN A NEW DRESS

The local chapter of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity has just finished a complete renovation of their chapter hall. Although the hall, previous to the refinishing, was not in bad condition, it has now been made one of the most beautiful halls on the campus. The upper woodwork is finished in white enamel, contrasted with the mahogany finish of the paneling below. The ceiling is papered in white, while the upper part of the walls are covered with paper of a light bluish tint. The paper between the lower panels is on the order of brown tapestry. The hardwood floor was scraped, filled, and varnished. New electric light fixtures, rugs, and draperies have been ordered to complete the new furnishings.

“Well, I'll swan,” said the diving girl as she took off from the springboard.

CAMEL is THE QUALITY CIGARETTE—made for men who think for themselves—for folks who appreciate really fine tobacco.

ONE BRAND—ONE QUALITY—ONE SIZE PACKAGE. That is the way we keep faith with the smoker.

Keeping faith with the SMOKER

Our lifelong knowledge of choice tobaccos, our years of manufacturing experience and our up-to-date facilities are concentrated on making CAMELS the finest cigarette that can be produced. Into THIS ONE BRAND we put the UTMOST QUALITY. A better cigarette cannot be made—even for a higher price.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO., Winston-Salem, N.C.