THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1922.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

MID-YEAR REPORT OF Y.M.C.A. OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

At their December meeting, the Y.M.C.A. Board of Control authorized a “summary report of the work accomplished by the Association
during the Fall term.” The report is as follows:

Bible Study—A fourteen weeks’ course based on the Book of Acts and Galatians was given; beginning on the 14th of
September and continuing without interruption through the 14th of December. Classes were held on each of the dormitory floors every
Wednesday night at 9 o’clock. The Leaders’ Class under the direction of Prof. J. L. Douglas, of the Department of
Mathematics, met on Monday night at 7 o’clock. Number of leaders, 26; enrollment, 321; percentage of resident students, 71%; average
attendance, 222; percentage of attendance, 68%.

Weekly Meetings—The weekly services of the Y.M.C.A. are held on Sunday evening at 6:15 o'clock. The singing of gospel hymns
and special music by members of the Association Quartette and Orchestra have made these meetings especially attractive. Total attendance, 3,750;
average attendance, 240; percentage of available students, 60%. The program has been as follows:

September 11 — Dwight Chalmers, Foundation Stones for the Year.
September 18—Brother Mark, P.O.H.G., Complete Surrender.
September 25—Prof. Frank Graham (U. of N.C.), Why Study?
October 2—G. C. Bellingrath and E. H. Hamilton, Stereopticon Study on Missions.
October 9—J. P. Price, W. M. McLeod, T. H. Paterson, Blue Ridge.
October 16—Dr. E. W. Sikes (President Coker College), England and America.
October 23—Dr. D. W. Richardson, Education in China.
October 30—Rev. Locke White, A Young Man’s Purpose.
November 6—Prof. E. J. Erwin, The Bible as Literature.
November 13 — Dwight Chalmers, Obedience and Knowledge.
November 20—Mr. Bland Roberts, The Call to Service.
November 27—Sixteen Mitchell College Students, A Missionary Pageant.
December 4—Dr. W. L. Porter, The Path of Life.
December 11—Mr. Robert E. Mell (Secretary Rock Hill Y.M.C.A.), The Pocket Testament League.
December 18—Christmas Service, “The Other Wise Man,” E. E. Houghton; “The Spirit of Christmas,” Dr. C. M. Richards.

Special Services—Brother Mark, speaking to five fraternities and clubs and holding thirty personal interviews on “Realizing Religion.” Dr. Henry B.
Wright: speaking to the faculty on “The Practice of Friendship,” and giving five addresses on Personal Evangelism to a selected
group of 130 men. Mr. R. E. Mell: speaking to the students on “The Pocket Testament League.” As a result
of this meeting, 50 men joined the P.T.L. Dr. F. N. Seerley, Dean Y.M.C.A. College, Springfield, Mass., “Sex Life.”

Personal Work—There is in each class a “Friendship Council” of ten or more men which meets weekly for discussion and
prayer. They are working for those men in their class who are not living a Christian life, and for the
development of the Best Things at Davidson.

Deputations—No extensive “Gospel Team” work has been attempted this fall, but representatives of the Davidson Y.M.C.A. have spoken to the
boys’ meetings at the Charlotte Y.M.C.A. and at three of the State Older Boys’ Conferences. As a result of the
Charlotte deputation, the boys’ secretary has requested that Davidson men speak at one service a month for the remainder of
the year. The Volunteer Band reports the following: Number of teams sent out, 10; number of men used, 12; number
of audiences addressed, 20; estimated number of people reached, 4,500. The Ministerial Band reported the following: Number of teams sent
out, 8; number of men used, 10; number of audiences addressed, 18; estimated number of people reached, 2,300.

Christian Endeavor Extension—Special stress has been put on the promotion of Christian Endeavor in the surrounding territory. Two “flying squadron”
teams have been organized and their services offered to any point desiring help. Six visits were made. A training class
has been organized to train the students in Expert Endeavor and general field work.

Sunday School Extension—Six mission Sunday Schools are conducted wholly or partly by students. A report from them is as follows:

| Name of School | No. of Teachers | Enrollment | Average Attendance |
|----------------|-----------------|-------------|---------------------|
| Brawley | 4 | 42 | 35 |
| Caldwell | 2 | 12 | 10 |
| Shearer Chapel | 6 | 50 | 40 |
| Oak Grove | 4 | 25 | 20 |
| Millstone | 8 | 45 | 35 |
| C. of A. | 5 | 55 | 45 |
| Totals | 29 | 252 | 185 |

Special services have been held seven times at a Convict Camp a few miles from Davidson. There is an organized
Sunday School Class for college men in the local church led by Dr. Frazer Hood, of the Department of Psychology.

Community Work—Basketball, football, and organized play have been promoted among the boys of the mill village. A boys’ club has
been formed under the leadership of a student. A “Hi-Y” Club has been organized in connection with the local high
school with the purpose of “creating, maintaining, and extending throughout the school and community, high standards of Christian character.” This
organization had six representatives at the Older Boys’ Conference in Charlotte. Coaches for all branches of athletics have been offered
to the surrounding schools through the Y.M.C.A.

Campus Service—An employment bureau for college men has been established and is working nicely. Five men have secured substantial agencies
through the Y.M.C.A. A “Handbook” of seventy-five pages was given to every student and professor at the opening of the
college year. Entertainment and social activities have been as follows: (1) The usual Freshman reception which introduces the new men
to college life and to each other. (2) Sixty-four Freshmen have made visits to nine faculty homes under the direction
of the Association. (3) A social center is maintained in the gymnasium where games and magazines are always available to
the idle students. (4) The Y.M.C.A. helped in the festivities of Senior Week by securing homes for the visitors, furnishing
a social hall for all guests, and assisting in the general reception. (5) Moving pictures have been provided once a
week with an average attendance of five hundred. A representative list of pictures would include, “Great Moment,” “Footlights,” “Experience,” “City
of Silent Men,” “A Heart to Let,” “Flashes of Action,” and “The Great Impersonation.”

Giving—Students have been called upon to contribute to the Y.M.C.A. only through the Blanket Fee and the Motion Pictures.

Finances—A careful budget has been made and followed under the guidance of the Board of Control. The efficiency of the
Association is greatly handicapped on account of lack of funds.

Receipts for Fall Term ------- $1,878.42
Disbursements:
Secretary’s Salary ----------- $ 625.00
Support of Program ---------- $1,088.03
Balance on hand, Dec. 15th ---- $ 165.39
Outstanding obligations ------- $ 451.00ficj tees oss Ses ceenecesseeease 285.61

Students Used—In carrying out this program more than 219 students have been actively used. The co-operation of the faculty has
done much towards making this program possible. The cordial support of the local church has also been a great help.
The officers of the Association are: President, J. P. Price; Vice-President, C. E. Cunningham; Secretary, C. R. Crawford; Treasurer, H.
K. Russell; General Secretary, Dwight M. Chalmers.

Work of the Secretary—At the rate of four visits a night, it takes nine weeks to visit every one of
the 220 rooms occupied by students. This fall, the greater part of two weeks was given to visiting six colleges
as a representative of the State Y. M. C. A. Committee. Nineteen talks have been made at colleges, Y. M.
C. A.’s and Sunday Schools.

Calendar of Religious Meetings
Sunday—9 a.m., Y. M. C. A. Cabinet; 10 a.m., Volunteer Band; 1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band; 2:30 p.m., Dr. Hood's Sunday
School Class; 6:15 p.m., Y. M. C. A. Service.
Monday—7 a.m., Senior Friendship Council; 7 p.m., Leaders’ Bible Class; 8 p.m., Board of Control (monthly).
Tuesday—10 p.m., Volunteer Executive Committee.
Wednesday—7 p.m., Junior Friendship Council.
Thursday—7 p.m., Leaders’ Bible Class; 7 p.m., Freshman Friendship Council.
Friday—7 p.m., Davidson Hi-Y Club; 7 p.m., Sophomore Friendship Council.
Saturday—None.

General Plans for Coming Months—The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet will spend a “week-end retreat” planning and praying for the
work of the spring. This will be the third time they have gone aside for conference and fellowship. The months
of January and February will be given over to the study of Missions. A fund of $1,000 will be raised
to support a Davidson man in the mission field. Gospel teams will be sent to leading High and Prep Schools.
A Life Work Conference will be held in March under the guidance of Dr. J. M. Vander Meulen. The theme
of the weekly meetings will also bear on Life Work.

Purposes of this Brief Survey—The purposes of this short resume are: (1) To inform you of the unvarnished facts with
regard to the work of the Y. M. C. A. for the education of a little Chinese girl. (2) To
enlist your personal co-operation and prayer. (3) To enlist your financial support for an enlarged usefulness. (4) To open the
way for suggestions and plans for improvement.

DR. J. O. REAVIS APPEALS AT CHURCH FOR LIFE-WORK
Last Sunday morning the church service was conducted by Dr. J. O. Reavis. His text was: "Be ye luminaries.” Although
he did not choose a subject, his address might well have been entitled “Life Service.” The main divisions of his
speech were: (1) The need of the Church at home and abroad; (2) The real meaning of Christ; (3) The
different spheres of service. In speaking of the need of the Church, the speaker showed plainly the need for more
and better service at home which would result in an increased zeal and a more efficient work for Christ in
foreign fields. Turning toward the real meaning of Christ, Doctor Reavis told of Christ's simplicity, His great sacrifice, and His
wonderful moulding influence upon the lives of those whom He has touched, both in their person and in their spirit.
Finally, discussing the different spheres of service, Doctor Reavis compared the various professions to the ministry, teaching, medicine, and business,
showing that each man should serve Christ where he knows that he can serve Him with the best use of
his ability.

LOCAL VOLUNTEERS AID IN PAGEANT AT STATESVILLE
Last Sunday evening a Volunteer Band deputation assisted the Y. W. C. A. of Mitchell College in a special missionary
service in which all the churches of Statesville joined. The missionary pageant entitled “In the Name of the Cross” constituted
the main part of the service, with introductory talks on consecration and the needs of the Foreign Field by W.
W. Moore and J. P. Price, of the Davidson Volunteer Band. In spite of the biting air and the ice-covered
streets, an interested audience of approximately five hundred people from the different churches of Statesville filled the main floor of
Shearer Hall and overflowed into the gallery. After the pageant, a free-will offering more than met the need of $25
for that purpose.

GREATER DAVIDSON CLUB
(Continued from page 1)
Thirty-four inquiries from parents and friends concerning students have been received. The new members of the club, the Freshmen, have
pledged their earnest support to the drive, and many of them are corresponding with the most promising young men of
their high schools with the idea of bringing them to Davidson next year as students. The upper-classmen are also taking
an active interest and have turned in, as prospective students, the names of many men of the type of character
that Davidson stands for. A definite goal always adds a certain stimulus and interest to a campaign, and with such
an excellent one as the Greater Davidson Club has chosen, together with the undying loyalty of each Davidson student, the
best of results are assured.

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH
A wonderful sticking fuse & 36 square inches of pure rubber. A substantial screw top box. A money back guarantee
with every box. Retail everywhere for 50c.
J.S. WINGO
Spartanburg

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You

Miss Juanita Wilkes, of Laurens, S. C., and Miss Ruth Barksdale, of Greenwood, S. C., were the guests of Miss
Gibbs during the past week.

Helen Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
75 Chambers

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc.
Troy, NY.

Mrs. Mable B. Deveraux, Mgr.
East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents for Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this line
Army Shoes, Dress Shoes, and Tennis Shoes
We also have a good line of FURNISHINGS
Knox & Barnette

Delicious and Refreshing
In Bottles
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
