On to Charlotte! THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 28, 1922 No.
2

CHARLOTTE PASTOR SPEAKS AT SUNDAY VESPER SERVICE

Rev. G. F. Bell Addresses Students on Prevalent Voices.

The “Y” meeting in Shearer Hall Sunday night was opened with the song service, after which Weeks, Burney, and Grey
led in prayer. The speaker of the evening, Rev. G. F. Bell, of the Knox Memorial Presbyterian Church of Charlotte,
and a graduate of Central University, class of '98, was next introduced by W. J. Cooper. Mr. Bell took his
text from St. Luke, 23rd chapter, 23rd verse: “And their voices prevailed.”

The speaker began by picturing the story of Jesus’ trial, in which the passion of the crowd for His death
prevailed. Within was the prisoner, one whose voice was heavenly and who thought not of himself. Without was the crowd,
all classes of which united in demanding His surrender with voices of passion, envy, personal resentment, ignorance, and willful unbelief.
The governor could find no fault with the prisoner, and while his better nature favored Jesus, his weak nature favored
the crowd, and the crowd won. Policy and expediency won and produced an unspeakable tragedy.

Each of us, Mr. Bell said, is standing where Pilate did. Voices of passion, indifference, and ignorance are assailing us.
Voices are being raised against our sane, quiet Sabbath, against our Constitution and the prohibition amendment. Voices of skepticism arise.
Modern novels taunt the Christian religion and advocate radical things. The speaker told of the daughter of a friend, who
returned from an eastern college with her faith gone. “Are these voices going to prevail in the light of this
land? The answer is with you and me. As goes the individual, so the family, the state, and the nation.”

“The voice of the market” robs some men of their finer sensibilities and religion, dulls their conscience and leaves them
no spiritual vision, and robs them of the confidence and friendship of the finer business man. Likewise, the “voice of
fashion and social ambition” robs women of what is fine and makes them believe the incidental to be essential. “Young
men, go full steam ahead, lose your reserve, run with the crowd—keep up the pace. The fellow who, independent of
the crowd, defies and stands out from the crowd, and holds to his convictions against the crowd is the one
that gets on—not the crowd.”

Men like Washington and Franklin kept their convictions and beliefs, and lost popularity with the crowd but served mankind. It
is so easy, said the speaker, to run with the crowd and go against sacred beliefs and truths of childhood.
“There is One, who calm, majestic, silent, deeply concerned, dedicated His life to us and stands yearning for us. What
are we going to do with Jesus? Which will prevail, the voice within or the voice without?”

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

DAVIDSON DAY TO BE HELD IN CHARLOTTE ON OCT. 2ND

Entire Student Body Will Be Guests of Charlotte Civic Body.

Monday, October 2nd, promises to be an enjoyable and prosperous day for Davidson College, in that the entire student body
is to be the guests of the citizens of Charlotte. The Chamber of Commerce, representing the citizens of Charlotte and
directed by Mr. C. O. Kuester, has kindly invited the students of Davidson College to be their guests on that
day, during the “Made-in-Carolinas Exposition.” Many plans are being formulated for the pleasure of the students and it is assured
that everyone will have a delightful time.

The present plan is that a hundred automobiles or more will come to Davidson to carry the student body to
Charlotte and bring them back. After arriving in Charlotte, a trip over the city and to all points of interest
will be made. Dinner will be served at the Chamber of Commerce building. After lunch, the party will proceed to
the “Made-in-Carolinas Exposition.” The Governors of North and South Carolina will be present to deliver interesting talks. Among the most
important attractions are the noted musicians and the famous Russian Symphony Orchestra of New York. Special Davidson exercises will be
held on the grounds demonstrating Davidson's appreciation of Charlotte’s hospitality.

THE RADCLIFFE CHAUTAUQUA ANNOUNCES VARIED PROGRAM

Students to Enjoy Three Days’ Entertainment.

The Radcliffe Chautauqua, which comes to Davidson on October 6, 7, and 9, will present one of the best programs
ever seen at Davidson.

On Friday, October 6, the opening day of the Chautauqua, the afternoon performance will consist of a musical program by
the Clifford Collins Company. Milburn, the magician, will also give a performance of mystifying stunts. Doctor Culp will also lecture
on “Making Your Dreams Come True” or “The Psychology of Life in a World Like This.” That evening Doctor Culp
will lecture on “The Spirit of the Colonist.” Doctor Culp was here last year and was enjoyed by all.

On the afternoon of the second day, J. Coates Lockhart and his Scotch Lassies will appear in a musical performance.
Mr. Lockhart is a wonderful interpreter of Sir Harry Lauder. There will be no lecture on this day.

The third afternoon brings another musical program with the Marshall Novelty Company, consisting of Swiss hand bells, cello, xylophone, and
vocalists. Dr. Albert Marion Hyde will lecture on “The Spirit of the Pioneer.” That evening Doctor Hyde will lecture on
“The Durable Satisfaction of Life,” and the Marshall Novelty Company will appear again.

The guarantors of the Chautauqua this year are: W. H. Thompson, S. J. Christenbury, C. H. Hamilton, C. M. Stiles,
C. O. Potts, M. H. Goodrum, T. E. Lothery, A. R. Proctor, J. L. Stewart, J. R. Caldwell.

SPRATT MOORE—MIDGET CAPTAIN

J. S. Moore, better known to his many friends and admirers as Spratt, entered Davidson in the fall of 1920
after spending two years at the University of South Carolina and the Citadel. He made the varsity football team in
his freshman year here and turned the trick again last fall. Last spring the letter men departed from the ancient
custom and elected him, a junior, captain for this year.

For two years Spratt has been one of the brightest lights in the Wildcat pigskin firmament that has been literally
filled with stars. During that period he has gained more ground than any other athlete who sports the Red and
Black. And he has made this record in spite of the fact that he is the lightest pigskin artist since
the days of Tiny Graham. This midget human torpedo tips the scales at a bare 125.

The little halfback does everything and does it to a queen’s taste. He passes, he plunges, he runs. His specialty,
however, is skirting the opponents’ ends for huge hunks of territory. Once he gets past the line of scrimmage he
is a terror, being a past master at the arts of choosing his field and slipping between would-be tacklers. In
addition, he can crack a line as though it was made of paper and hurl forward passes with uncanny accuracy.

Habit of Saving

No young man starting out for himself being dependent upon his own exertions can afford unnecessary expenses. He must deny
himself extras or always remain poor. Even a five cent cigar each day will amount to $18.25 inone year; and
one who saves that sum will be much ahead of the one who spends it. And the habit of saving
will be worth everything. If he saves $18.25 each year, only putting it at six per cent simple interest, it
would in twenty years amount to $570. So much for one little trifle of indulgence. He who would in a
few years be independent, and yet envy the “capitalist” must start right.

DAVIDSON SOON TO POSSESS A PHI BETA KAPPA CHAPTER
Local Students to Wear Famous Key of Honor Organization.

After about six years of work, Davidson has been granted a chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa National Scholastic Fraternity.
The date for the installation has not definitely been decided, but it will probably be some time during this fall.
The bringing of Phi Beta Kappa to Davidson is largely the result of Prof. J. M. McConnell’s work. Six years
ago, under his leadership, the plan was started for getting a Davidson chapter. A short while ago he received a
letter from the national secretary, stating that Davidson would be granted a chapter and also indicating that some institutions had
been working as much as 50 years for a chapter. Both student and alumni members may be installed as members
of Phi Beta Kappa. At present, the faculty members of Phi Beta Kappa are: Doctors Martin, Wood, I. Carter, J.
J. Withers, J. W. MacConnell, J. M. Douglas, S. M. Griffith, H. D. Torrence, C. B. Reynolds, C. E. Tidder,
H. B. Elliott, F. L. Jackson and H. B. Arbuckle.

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL SQUAD BEING ROUNDED INTO SHAPE
Attractive Schedule for First Year Men.

A difficult schedule of six games is the task that is facing the freshman football team. Beginning with the P.
C. fresh at Rock Hill on October 19, and ending with the Clemson fresh on Turkey Day, a representative number
of Carolina teams will be played. For several years the scrub teams have been playing a schedule of games but
the division of the squad into varsity and freshmen units is a new thing on the “Hill.” The immediate cause
of this change of policy is a new S. I. A. A. ruling to the effect that no athlete can
play more than three years of intercollegiate sports. While this ruling does not specifically bar freshmen, it will amount to
that in practice, because Coach Grey is not willing to play a man his first year at the expense of
his services later on. Ever since the division of the squad last week the fresh have been hard at work
and it is surprising how human they look without fresh caps. Captain George of the R. O. T. C., is
coaching the team and expects to have the green rubbed off and a fighting tan in its place by the
time of the first game in October. McDonald, Land, Sappenfield and Black form a backfield combination that will be hard
to beat. Black and Land are both of varsity caliber and would have been heard from with the first team
but for the new ruling. Alford and McMillian are subs. The line is not quite as experienced as the backfield,
but a little seasoning will put them in tip-top shape. Baker, of G. M. A., and Crayton, of Charlotte, cavort
around the ends while Anderson, of Staunton, Va., and Dowd, of Army-Navy prep, smear up the opposition at tackle. McMillian
and Green at guard, and Cox at center, complete a line that has a good deal of promise. The freshmen
schedule follows:

October 19—P. C. Fresh at Rock Hill, S. C.
October 27—South Carolina Fresh at Columbia, S. C.
November 4—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
November 9—A. & E. Fresh at Pinehurst, N. C.
November 17—Wofford Fresh at Rock Hill, S. C.
November 30—Clemson Fresh at Clemson, S. C.

WILDCATS BLANK ELONITES IN SEASON'S INITIAL FRAY
Christians Fail to Score Single First Down Saturday.

Before a crowd of 2,000 people, the Wildcats opened their 1922 campaign by a clear-cut win over Elon, 24-0. The
issue of the battle was never in doubt. From the start the Wildcats showed the way in every department of
the game, out-punting, out-passing, out-gaining and incidentally out-scoring their opponents. Frequent fumbles marred the game, the Wildcats recovering most of
their own and opponent’s fumbles. The Maroon and Gold was unable to make a single first down, while the Red
and Black scrappers made the distance 20 times. In the first quarter the Wildcats were decidedly off color, but worked
like a machine in the second quarter, scoring two touchdowns. At no time was the Davidson goal line in danger
and at only one time in the contest was the ball in Elon’s possession in Davidson's territory. In the first
period Dick fumbled on the 37-yard line and Elon recovered. The Christians advanced to the 30-yard line where they were
forced to punt after which operations were shifted to Elon territory for the remainder of the game. Captain Spratt Moore,
the midget leader of the Wildcats, rang up the first score of the season when he ran 13 yards through
the center of the Elon line for a touchdown. It was a beautiful exhibition of the broken-field running for which
Spratt is noted. Honors for the longest run of the day go to Leonard Dick, the field general of the
Red and Black club, who executing a perfect fake dashed 34 yards through the Elon players. Spratt and Gig Shepherd
were the chief ground gainers for the Wildcats and both seem to be going better than ever before. After the
first team had made two touchdowns the scrubs were sent in. They marched down the field toward a touchdown but
with the ball on the nine-yard line the half ended. Hendrix ran his team well and in the third quarter,
with Regen and Faison on the flanks, the scrubs scored when Faison grabbed Hendrix's pass over the goal line. Bill
Joe Martin played a great game at full, while Boggs, Hunt, Covington and Crawford were consistent ground gainers. In the
last quarter the varsity returned to the game and Gig carried the ball over for the second time during the
contest. During the final minute of play the Wildcats were (Continued on Page 2)

What’s Doing

THURSDAY, SEPT. 28.
Davidsonian arrives, 3 p.m.
Phi society—7:30 p.m.
Eu society—7:30 p.m.
Pandemic society—8:30 p.m.

FRIDAY, SEPT. 29.
Wildcats vs. P. C. at Clinton.

SATURDAY, SEPT. 30.
Movies—Thomas Meighan in “You Believe It’s So.”

SUNDAY, OCT. 1.
Volunteer band—10 a.m.
C. E. Training class—1 p.m.
Ministerial band—1:45 p.m.
Bible class—3:30 p.m.
“Y” service—6:15 p.m.

MONDAY, OCT. 2.
College guests of Charlotte “Made-in-Carolinas” Exposition.

TUESDAY, OCT. 3.
Bible class leaders—9 p.m.
Metropolitan society—7:15 p.m.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4.
Bible classes—“Where Do We Need New Standards?”—9 p.m.

HOMECOMING DAY — V.P.I. — OCT. 21
