THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

ABSENTEES TO THE DAVIDSON ROLL CALL

Year after year vast streams of youth who enter American colleges are checked in their advance, so as to gather additional momentum, and then burst into the full glory of manhood and life. They live, a blessing to God and humanity, and then are called to a rich and deserving reward. Davidson College has caught many a youth from the whirlpool of life and has elevated him to a higher plane where he may work with his newly-acquired faculties unhindered. Everywhere do we see these men, in the missionary field, the medical profession, the business world, the scientific laboratory and so on to the highest callings. But never once have they committed themselves in a way unbecoming of a Davidsonian or other than a son of whom Davidson College is proud. But there is a Master over all of them who metes out to this or that one his portion of life. And so we accept it as the best that He has called to his fold some of our brothers who have gone before us to break away for us who must carry on—carry on to the end for God, Davidson and humanity.

It is with a touch of sadness that this list of Davidson men who have died during the past year is published.

Capt. M. H. McBryde, A. B., ’58, died at Laurinburg, N. C., during the past month.
R. H. Morrison, A. B., ‘68, died at his country place near Davidson, August 7, 1922.
D. P. Hutchison, ’74, joined his brother Davidsonians through death on April 25, 1922, at the age of 69 years.
Rev. J. C. McMullen, ’73, departed from us at his home in Winona, Miss., last April at the age of 70 years.
Rev. Calvin Levers Stewart, ’77, died November 9, 1921, at Pelzer, S. C.
John Pryor Lee entered with the class of 1883, but did not graduate. He died November 11, 1921.
Brevard E. Harris, A. B., ’85, found his reward in death at Concord, N. C., on May 20, 1922.
Dr. Leonard White, '87, departed on April 1, 1922, at the age of 52 years.
John M. McIntyre, A. B., '95, died during the past year in Dallas, Texas.
P. A. Stough, A. B., ’96, joined his comrades on June 26, 1922, at Cornelius, N. C.
A. M. McClure, ’03, died last summer in New York City where he was practicing law.
Walter Lee Campbell met with a fatal accident in Washington, D. C., causing an untimely death.
Harry H. Summerville, ’19, succumbed to a disease contracted during his service in France. His death occurred November 27, 1921, he being 27 years of age.
Hugh Cornelius, ’22, died after an acute illness of eight weeks, on June 8, 1922, at a hospital in Charlotte.

What we may say can add nothing to the praise these men found in life nor the glory found in death. To their families we extend heartfelt sympathy for their bereavement. And now Davidson alumni and students let the death of our boys, yes verily, we are proud to claim them as “our boys”—be an impetus by which we may go through life doing good and showering glory upon our Alma Mater.

“From falling hands they have flung the torch, May it be ours to hold on high,”

HERE AND THERE

John G. Choate, ex-’23, is studying decorative art at Columbia University. His address is 106 Hartley Hall, Columbia University, New York City.
Thomas G. Hardie, ’80, is a cotton broker in Charlotte, N. C.
Reed Smith, ’01, is professor of English at the University of South Carolina.
Joel Smith Bailey, '03, is business manager of a daily newspaper in Greenwood, S. C.
T. Peden Anderson, ’06, is a banker at Westminster, S. C.
R. I. McDavid, ’05, is a field engineer for the Portland Cement Association, of Chicago, Ill. His home address is Greenville, S. C.
R. B. Simmons, ’13, is farming at Summerville, S. C.
W. C. Sibley, '12, is office manager of the Chesnee Mills at Chesnee, S. C.
Rev. F. M. Bain, ’16, is located at Accomac, Va.
Rev. Edgar David Kerr, ’04, is professor of Hebrew and Cognate languages at Columbia Theological Seminary. His address is 1600 Blanding Street, Columbia, S. C.
Henry A. Hill '12, is taking work at Columbia University and has classes in one of the New York City schools. He is living at 904 Lexington Avenue.
J. R. Boulware, Jr., is instructor of science and mathematics in Greenbriar Military School at Lewisburg, W. Va.
Rev. Charles D. Holland, ’10, is pastor of the Dickey Memorial Church and Rev. R. L. Riddle, '11, is pastor of the Franklin Street Church in Baltimore, Md. Reverend Holland is living at Hillsdale in Baltimore.
Members of the faculty of Arkansas College, Batesville, Arkansas, who are Davidson men are Rev. R. K. Timmons, ’04, dean; D. M. Frierson, ’90, professor of mathematics; John B. Daffin, '18, professor of chemistry; A. D. McArm, '20, professor of Latin.
Rev. Watson M. Fairley, '95, one of the outstanding ministers of Texas, is pastor of the Westminster Church at El Paso.
Romeo Romefelt, ’21, was on the Hill Sunday. He is working in Asheville, N. C., this year.
Rev. William H. Mills, is professor of rural sociology at Clemson College.
Mr. H. B. Culbreth, '21, is working with an insurance company in Chicago, Ill.
Rev. R. A. Brown, D. D., '92, was recently elected president of the Stillman Institute, of Tuscaloosa, Ala.
Mr. G. W. Miley, ’21, is in the insurance business in Rock Hill, S. C.
Mr. Harry Sample, '21, is studying law at the University of South Carolina.
Mr. Bill Shaw, ‘13, is coaching football at Wilmington, N. C.
L. C. Vass, '94, who was one of Davidson’s first football players, later went as a minister to Africa. He has recently returned and become pastor of the Cartersville Church in Georgia.
Mr. F. M. Castle, '23, is in the coal business in West Virginia.
Rev. J. W. Stokes, '94, is pastor of the College Park Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, Ga.
Rev. Mr. J. E. Castle, '21, is teaching at Lenoir, N. C.
Rev. T. H. Spence, '06, is pastor of Rocky River Church in Cabarrus County, N. C.
Mr. John Brown Evans, ’08, is in the life insurance business in St. Paul, N. C.
Rev. Hay Watson Smith, '90, is pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Little Rock, Ark.
Dr. J. S. Brown, ‘80, is practicing medicine and owns extensive apple orchards in Hendersonville, N. C.
Mr. J. H. Dewey, '22, is principal of the school in Hoboken, N. C.
Mr. M. C. Dew, ’22, is working in the bank in Raeford, N. C.
Rev. L. A. MacLaurin, ’92, recently became pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Rowland, N. C.
Rev. L. E. Wells, ’05, recently moved from the Synod of N. C. to that of Florida.
Mr. Robert Murray, '18, will graduate this year from the medical college of Maryland.
Dr. J. Hall, '05, after spending some years in mines has returned to live in his native home of Wilmington, N. C.
Mr. E. T. Huggins, ’95, is a successful business man of Wilmington, N. C.
Mr. J. H. Gentry, ’13, is professor of the high school of Statesville, N. C.
Mr. H. W. Glasgow, ’02, owns and conducts the University high school in Charlotte, N. C.
Rev. V. L. Gaston, '93, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Aberdeen, N. C.
Honorable W. F. Stevenson, ’85, was re-elected Congressman from the sixth district of South Carolina in the recent election.
Rev. M. Mar Yosip, '11, is synodical evangelist for the Synod of Arkansas.
Rev. H. D. Corbett, '13, was moderator of the Bethel Presbytery of South Carolina at its last meeting.
Rev. W. B. S. Chandler, '07, was moderator and P. D. Patrick, ’15, temporary clerk at the recent meeting of the Pee Dee Presbytery of the Synod of South Carolina.
Several old Davidson men were seen at the Davidson-Wofford game in Charlotte. Some were past performers on the field and others interested followers of the game. Those present were R. D. Alexander, '19; A. S. Cashion, ‘17, of Gastonia; Coit Robinson, '10, of Lowell; Mayor James O. Walker, ‘01; B. M. Romefelt, ’21, of Asheville, N. C.; G. D. Sparrow, ’16, of Charlotte; Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, of Charlotte; Roy Perry; H. S. Alexander, '15; R. C. Goth; S. M. Glove, '90; Dr. Nesbit Heath, '13; G. E. Miley, '21; T. T. Allison, 1900; W. H. Neal, '17; R. R. McIlwaine; Mc. A. Carson, '13, and Dr. J. R. Alexander, ’93.

BIRTHS

Mr. J. M. Rumple, ex-’13, and Mrs. Rumple, announce the recent arrival of Jean Irving. Mr. Rumple is living in Columbus, Ohio, and is just recovering from a serious operation.
Born to Rev. '12, and Mrs. Jas. T. Pharr, of Renick, W. Va., on July 9, 1922, a 10 1-2 pound boy, Jas. L. (Tim) Junior.

CROSS-COUNTRY RUN TO BE HELD DEC. 9TH

This year brings forth a new delight within the realms of trackdom. U. N. C. will hold an All-State, invitation cross country run at Chapel Hill December 9. Carolina, State, Trinity, Elon and Davidson will enter teams. Galloway, captain of this year's track team, issued a call for tryouts some little time ago and since then quite a little mob has been going through the daily laps on Sprunt Field. Time trials will be held just before Thanksgiving, and the triumphant three will be chosen to represent Davidson. It is hoped that December 9th will be one day on which the Wildcats will be trailed. Of the 16 men trying out for the team, McBride and Galloway, veterans of the track and Willford, Matthews and Gudgery new aspirants, are showing up in good form. The balance of the bunch isn’t letting them get by with any light workouts though, and time and the trials alone can decide who will make the trip. The race will be three miles across country. Strict training has been pledged by the men trying out, and they have all gone into the affair to win if possible.

WILDCATS TO FACE (Continued from Page 1)one) There are many Davidson takers. The Wildcats MAY be beaten Saturday, but they will never be outfought. Bill Fetzer, the Carolina coach, played and coached at Davidson for many years, and it was under his tutelage that Coach Hugh Carey received his training. As yet, the Carolina team with Fetzer as its pilot has been unable to penetrate the Wildcat defense, and Saturday it will be given a third chance to meet the Wildcat defense. Carolina has crossed the goal line of every team it has played this year, although the touchdown against Yale was not allowed. This makes the chances for upholding the scoreless records of the past two years seem dark, but the word impossible is not in the Wildcat vocabulary. On the other hand, every team except Trinity has scored on Carolina, Wake Forest and Maryland by the field goal route, and all the others by violating the Tar Heel’s goal line. Will Davidson, like Trinity, be handed out a goose-egg? Red and Black supporters believe and say emphatically “No.” Many say that the Wildcats have no chance against Carolina's heavier and more experienced team, but where there is fight, there is a chance, so the Red and Black has a big chance for they will fight from the word go to the final whistle.

Fetzer’s fast Blue team has a great advantage in weight over the Red and Black, the difference being about six pounds per man. Brice, at center, will be opposed by Blount, who though lighter than his opponent, has the edge in experience and was mentioned last year on the second All-State team. Brice at his best has shown himself to be the equal of any who have faced him, and Blount will not be able to run over him. Sorrells at right guard will face Captain Pritchard, left guard and an almost unanimous selection for All-State honors last season. Pritchard is a hard charger and outweighs Bascom by 15 pounds, but Bascom showed up well against Sherertz, the 200-pound V. P. I. guard, when outweighed 30 pounds. There is no harder fighter than Sorrells on the team, and it would be no surprise to see him more than hold his own against the Carolina captain. Sam Davis, at the other guard position, will be outweighed more than 15 pounds by Poindexter. Poindexter has been showing up well this year, and on account of his big advantage in weight, seems to have the advantage. Sam makes up for his lack of weight by his fight and is a hard man to beat.

Montague Clark has the edge in weight over Matthews and shows up the better of the two. Montague has speed, is a fierce charger and a sure tackler, and is good on blocking punts. His work in the Wake Forest game paved the way for Davidson's touchdown, and his blocking Heckman's kick saved the Wildcats from defeat. Two Mc’s will mix things up at the other tackle position where McMasters and McIver face each other. McIver is the best of the Carolina tackles and will give any man a run for his money at the position. While not a flashy player, McMasters is a steady player and can be depended upon to come across with the goods.

'Lias Faison plays opposite Morris. 'Lias is a defensive player of the highest type, and he can be counted on to stop many a Carolina end run. When it comes to fierce tackling and sure cutting, Faison is all there, and he has an uncanny knack of sifting through the interference and nailing the runner behind the line of scrimmage. Nappy Davis plays opposite Cochran, who ran Homewood a close race for All-State honors last season. In the V. P. I. game, the Gobblers were thrown for a net loss of two yards around his flank, and in the Wofford game, he gained practically 150 yards on passes, showing him to be both a defensive and offensive end of the highest caliber.

Hendrix and McDonald will run the teams. Monk is a much more experienced player than Jim and is a great runner as well as field general, but Jim is an adept at ticking off yardage around end and should give a good account of himself. For pure speed, there are few backs who can surpass him, and given the chance, he can show a clean pair of heels to anyone.

The peerless Johnny Johnson will be at left half while Gig Shepherd plays right half for the Wildcats. If the Wildcats hold Johnny, a great part of their work will be done. Last year, Johnson was Carolina, and the year before, Gig’s run beat the Tar Heels, so the work of these two backs will be watched with a great deal of interest. Gig’s showing has improved greatly in the last two games, and he will be at his best Saturday. Hunt for Davidson and E. Morris for Carolina play the other halves. Both of these men are good line plungers and good defensive backs. Popsy, playing his first, is showing up well, and his powerful drives make him the Wildcats’ best bet as a line plunger. Popsy intercepted a pass in the Wofford game and went half the distance of the field for a touchdown. Here's hoping he pulls the same trick against the Tar Heels.

Captain Spratt, that 130-pound, elusive, slippery, twisting back, the hardest man in the State to hold, will play at full. During the first part of the season, he was not in good physical condition, and rumors began to float around that Spratt had lost his stuff, but from the way things look at present, Spratt will hit Carolina in his old-time form, and it will take a miracle man to get past him at the safety position. McGee is playing the position for Carolina and has been delivering a fine brand of ball, but is no match for the Wildcat captain. Spratt worked wonders last year, and prospects are bright for him to repeat, and a touchdown or so is not beyond the dream of Davidson supporters.

In case of injuries to these men, both teams have a collection of substitutes only slightly inferior to the first-string men. Their names and weights are given in the columns of statistics of both teams. For the 20th time, Tar Heel and Wildcat teams face each other on the gridiron. The University has annexed 12 victories, Davidson three, and four games resulted in scoreless ties. Despite the preponderance of Carolina victories, the University has only won once in the past four years and is seeking revenge. The Wildcats are also out to atone for the poor start this season, and it will take the best Carolina has got to stop them if they can be stopped.

WOFFORD EASILY DEFEATED
(Continued from Page 1)

down under them. Robinson and Captain Davis also played well. The line-up and summary:

DAVIDSON (34) WOFFORD (0)
Position
Davis, T. (c) Left End
McMasters Left Tackle
Davis, C. Left Guard
Brice Center
Sorrells Right Guard
Clarke Right Tackle
Faison Right End
Hendrix Quarterback
Shepherd Left Half
Kingman Right Half
Winder Fullback

Score by periods:
Davidson 14 0 7 13—34
Wofford 0 0 0 0—0

Touchdowns—Hunt (2), Davis (2), Hendrix. Try for point—Moore (3) (drop-kicks)—Shephard goal from placement. First downs—Davidson 31; Wofford 4. Substitutions—Davidson: Regen for Davis, C. M., Crawford for Hunt, Cox for McMasters, Fields for Brice, Alexander for Sorrells, Summers for Clarke, W. H. Moore for Faison, Dick for Hendrix, Regen for Shephard, DeArmon for Regen, McCombs for Moore, Spratt, Covington for Crawford, Hodgin for Clarke. Wofford: Strickland for Moore, Walker for Porter, D. Brown for Walker, Hollis for Davis, Collins for Brown, Stokes for Collins, Lessner for Stokes, Gross for Roberts, Galt for Gross, Bailey for Robinson, Robinson for Bailey.

Referee—Sampson (St. Albans). Umpire—McDougal (N. C. State). Linesman—Whitaker (N.C. State). Time of quarters—15; 15; 15; 15.

FIRST QUARTER

Wofford won the toss and elected to defend the west goal. Roberts kicked off 40 yards to Faison who returned to his 36-yard line. Shephard plowed four yards through left tackle. Shephard plunged through the same spot for nine yards and first down. Moore squirmed his way off the same spot for seven paces, and Hunt made it first down with four at right guard. Ball on Wofford’s 39-yard line. Hendrix slipped through left tackle and worked his way to the four-yard line before being forced out of bounds. Hunt smashed his way to the one-foot mark through right tackle. Moore failed to gain, but Hunt carried the hog’s hide over left tackle for Davidson’s first touchdown. Moore drop-kicked goal. Score—Davidson, 7; Wofford, 0.

Brice kicked off 30 yards to Brown who was downed on the 31-yard line. Wofford offside. Robertson circled left end for 21 yards and Wofford’s only first down in the first half. Robertson hit center for two, putting the ball on Davidson’s 49-yard line. He gained one yard at the same place, but on the next play, Kingman fumbled and Hunt recovered, carrying the oval to Wofford’s 45-yard line before being downed. Moore circled right end for three, and then Hendrix made another 26-yard sprint through left tackle for first down. The referee discovered Hunt holding and moved the ball (Continued on page eight)

If You Have Money, We Want It. If You Need Money, We Have It:
Morris Plan Bank
Winston-SALEM, N. C.

DAVIDSON IS IN THE CAMPAIGN for HOME
DAVIDSON IS NOW RUNNING A CAMPAIGN THAT HAS AN AIM FOR PROGRESS

We Can Sell You Insurance for Rain That Pays Each Claim With Promptness
McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

On the Square
Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.