THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 22, 1922

Facts From Freshmen’s Letters From Relatives:
One death, One birth (twins). Four ways to prevent colds. Five new ways to cure colds. One assurance of pride
at doing so well in the new “college career.” Four hope we don't (wasted). Six please write soon, study too
hard.

As With Ease for Freshmen
As with ease for Freshmen or how to develop a potent drag with the “lackultee.”
1. Make your debut full of vim and vigor.
2. Be playful.
3. Take your “profs” to the picture show. This will allow you to impress them with your high brow tastes
and opinions.
4. Let your hair grow, nasal and look pensive.
5. Carry a lot of books.
6. Always have a good excuse.
By following these directions and with sufficient study you may become a Maybe. get a pinch roads scholar.

Entrance Credit Computation
How Registrar’s Office Works.
Add the number of rooms to your weight last June, subtract the number of roomers in your dormitory and divide
the sum by 068391. Compute the age of the oldest inhabitant of Davidson in days and divide by the number
of light rays in the Aurora Borealis. Apply Einstein’s Theory and factor to three decimals. The number of your girls’
letters taken three times and subtracted from the total should give you something or other. Ask Mr. Hengeveld his age
and compute the calories of heat generated by the movement of his fans for one minute and to this add
the price of your new suit plus five times the number of buttons. If this does not give a rational
number cut off sufficient buttons to remove the radical and make the answer positive to five decimals. Watch for small
errors. Make your computations correctly and if you find that you have a total of 18.9736 without geometry and English
you may feel quite sure of having passed all requirements for entrance.

BIBLE STUDY CLASSES TO MEET WEDNESDAYS
The first Bible Classes of the year were held on Wednesday night at 9 o'clock. The topic for discussion according
to the plans of the committee in charge for the first ten weeks will be “Facing Student Problems.” This subject
was brought before the Blue Ridge Conference this past summer by Doctor Currie, of New York. After this subject has
been fully studied, character studies of the Old Testament will be taken up. The different leaders have been appointed and
a Bible Class will be held on every floor of each dormitory. The leaders will meet every Tuesday night at
9 o’clock, in Doctor Sentelle’s Classroom for a short discussion of the topic of the following Wednesday night. These discussions
will be led by Prof. Archie Currie. The following is a partial list of the leaders who have been appointed:
Buck Currie, Pat Crawford, Hugh Smith, Nappy Davis, Doc De Armon, Angus McBryde, M. P. Calhoun, W. J. Cooper, Bascomb
Sorrels, Warren Cox, Tally Elliot, John Grey, George Manze, E. L. Maison, R. R. Jones, Ted Jones, Harry Morris, C.
E. Hodgin, Bob McLeod, Mason Fields, M. S. Beall, Leonard Dick, Bob Davidson, Gig Shephard, Sam Davis, and A. M.
Hillhouse.

DAVIDSON MEN ELIGIBLE FOR RHODES SCHOLARSHIPS
A Rhodes Scholar will be appointed this autumn in each of 32 states, including the two Carolinas, Virginia, Tennessee, Florida,
Kentucky, West Virginia, Maryland, and Louisiana. Said Scholars will take up residence at the University of Oxford in 1923. Davidson
alumni and undergraduates who were born between Oct. 1, 1898, and Oct. 1, 1904, are eligible. The three qualities stressed
in the appointment are: (1) Qualities of manhood, character, and leadership; (2) Literary and scholastic attainments; (3) Physical vigor, as
shown by interest in outdoor sports, etc. The annual stipend of each Scholar at present is 350 pounds sterling. Especially
are alumni urged to apply, who had a good, all-round college record, who included an ancient language in their college
course, and who have had further valuable experience since graduation. All who wish to apply should send their names at
once to Prof. Thos. W. Lingle who will furnish any information desired in this connection, and who will submit all
names to the Davidson Faculty Oct. 9th for theendorsement of a maximum of three applicants for appointment in any one
state. At present, Davidson has one Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, Mr. Shelby McCloy, '19, appointed from the state of Arkansas.

At ten o'clock, Friday morning, June 2, Reverend Charles William Worth, '20, was united in marriage to Miss Elizabeth Grace
McAlpine, the daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Robert E. McAlpine. The ceremony was performed at Watts Chapel, Union Theological Seminary.

NONE TOO SMALL
R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

CAPITAL, $1,000,000.00
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

A MERRY DRAMA.
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes.
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and a no less prominent junior; in matters of dress, his taste is more conservative and
substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the First — ROOFING —
Characters:
Mack — He took her rowing on the lake,
She vowed she'd go no more,
I asked her why — she answered me;
“He only hugged the shore.”
Bill — If she ever goes out with you she'll sing another tune,
Mack — I don’t say she wouldn't.
Bill — You take the girlies — it’s me for Charlotte,
Mack — And why must you a-journeying go?
Bill — Can the comedy — and perhaps you need a hat. According to your own say-so you know what
is what can be of help to me. Therefore I beseech you to unload and pronto,
Mack — Well, let's according to Hoyle you should purchase a brown or a grey of one of the lighter
shades. They say a light brown is quite the stuff. Lined or unlined as the fancy strikes you,
Bill — Enough! Enough! How about caps?
Mack — They are like unto hats my son — light browns and the Tweeds or any soft stuff, see
are thins. But pleated back, they are as dead as Hector, greys don't buy a.

Central Cafeteria
ON THE SQUARE
Largest and best equipped cafeteria in the State. Best of food at reasonable prices.
Two entrances: On Tryon — one door above the United Cigar Store. On Trade — one door below and one
flight up.
Breakfast: 7 to 9:30 A.M.
Dinner: 11:30 A.M. to 2:30 P.M.
Supper: 5:30 to 8:30 P.M.
E. C. BARKER, Manager.

The plainer the better, Bill. Where did you accumulate your info?
Mack — Down to Mellon's. They've a peach of a line.
Bill — How about his prices?
Mack — Low. Noticed that his ad in The Davidsonian stated that Stetson’s and Knox's were seven up and Bergs
five up. By the way, that Berg is a nifty little hat. The caps were two and three, Think that
I will have to journey down.

MILLS SHOE CO.
For SHOE REPAIRING See PAT KIMZY at the Gym
Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill
Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the Commissary.
Statesville, N.C.

(To be continued next week)

From the Fairer Sexes
One account of going to dance with rival.
Two parties (no details),
One dinner party.
One shook our new hay just moved to town,
Three gushes over musical comedy.
One don't you know that so and so
One hope you haven't lost your heart to anyone,
Four wish you were heres.
Four wish I were theres,
Five hope you'll write soons.

We congratulate Davidson on her 1922 record-breaking enrollment. May all the college activities of this 87th session be equally as
good.
“GO GET ’EM WILD CATS”

McAlister Carson, Manager

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST COMPANY

We are something more than printers. Our products are something more than paper and ink. We have a complete Art
Department for all kinds of illustrated work and designing. We have a Planning and Copy Writing Department, the editing and
preparation of copy. You will find an unusual satisfaction in the complete service we render.

Printing and Art Department
14 East Fourth Street
IDEAS DESIGNS
COLLEGE ANNUALS
COPY MAGAZINES
DANCE PROGRAMS
ENGRAVING
Meaning “Something More”
“21 Years of Service.”
Office Furniture and Equipment Department
16 East Fourth Street
PRINTING PUBLICATIONS
Write Us for Samples and Prices.
