THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

CHONG’S LETTER

Davidson, N. C.
October 30, 1922.

Dear Joe:

Trinity put a crimp in our aspirations for the State championship by taking Saturday’s game, 12-0. The game is history so like old Bill Shakespeare I won’t repeat. Only the season’s record will show which has the better team, but at Cone Park the Methodists had the advantage and looked the best.

When the opening whistle blew the Wildcats had four big downs, Trinity, State, Carolina, and Furman. The Wildcats have failed on the first down but there are still three big ones left, Joe, and we go up against ’em on our good Saturdays. In looking over our record do you notice anything peculiar about it? Well here goes—The Elon game was a fairly good game, and we won, 24-0. The next week P. C. humbled us, 8-7. We came back though the next week, kid, and held Tech to 19 points. The next week we slumped and let Wake Forest tie us. Then when the V. P. I. Gobblers came down we tied ’em, 7-7 in the best game of the year. Then came Trinity!

From the looks of the above, I’d say that every other week has been our week. With all that our record stands one won, two tied, and three lost and four to go. There’s always a bright spot somewhere if you look for it and the thing that looks good is that next Saturday is our day. It’s second down and State to beat and Riddick Field is the scene of operations. Of course, you remember how State just did squeeze through last year and held us 3-3. Well, the boys are going up there to unravel the knot in the count and whether they win, tie, or lose, they’ll be eleven fighting Wildcats fighting for the Wolfpack’s scalp. What will happen Saturday is the big question. On this game depends the outcome of the Wildcat season.

You heard about the big send-off we gave the team when they left for Tech, didn’t you? Well, what we need to do is give ’em that much and as much more as the student body can pile on. You notice the difference between the Tech game and the P. C. and Trinity affairs when the team left in silence. Bobby Long, who was with us last year, is at State but will be unable to play Saturday because he fractured his wrist in the game with the Flying Squadron. That’s tough luck for Bobby, all right, as he was going good.

Nappy Davis was in there all the time at Greensboro cutting ’em right and left. Two or three times it looked like the Trinity man was killed but he always got up. I’d always heard that the Baptists were the hard-shelled lads but the way those Methodists took the punishment Nappy was handing out to ’em there must be a mistake along the line somewhere. The Methodists sure played the hard-shelled part. On one occasion Boswell, the left half, was watching the play and thinking about starting into it when Nappy hit him and knocked him for a loop. For about half a minute Boswell’s legs were flying around in the air like the arms of a Dutch windmill. After that Boswell paid a little more attention to the Wildcat wingman. Brice played a great game at center. On one occasion he blocked a punt and had a clear field for a touchdown but fumbled and Trinity recovered.

Well, Joe, we have been having some hefty scrimmages on the hill of an entirely different kind. Class basketball has started and twice a week the gym is the scene of a fierce battle. It looks like Coach Dutch will find several men to add to the five letter men who are back this term. When you talk about five letter men, think of Dan Mallory and Mac Beall at the forward positions, Warhoss Mawze at center, and Pat Crawford and Nappy Davis at guards. That’s a hard combination to beat and with Coach Dutch in the trainer’s role that bunch ain’t going to get beat often.

Of course, the all-important thing up here is Saturday’s game. The Wildcats will have the battle of their lives on their hands and it will be a close scrap all the way through. But when the Wildcats hit their stride, watch out State.

As ever,
CHONG.

---

DAVIDSON FRESH LOSE TO S. C. FRESH TEAM

The Davidson Freshmen played the second game of their season in Columbia, last Friday with the S. C. Freshmen. Although defeated by the score of 20-3, they showed much improvement over their previous game and held their heavier opponents to a standstill in the greater part of the game. With W. P. Cox starting at center, Vance and Potts guards, “Red” Anderson and Doughton tackles, Crayton and Baker ends, with Sappenfield, Block, McDonald, and McMillan in the backfield, the initial whistle was blown. Davidson received and held on their 30-yard line. Here an attempted punt was blocked and recovered by a Gamecock Freshman. The ball could not be advanced through the impregnable defense of the future Wildcats, and a drop-kick fell short of the goal. Davidson gained a first down and then attempted a punt which went straight up. The South Carolinians tried another drop-kick which was turned into a touchback and...Davidson’s ball on her own 20-yard line. The next punt went for 20 yards and out of bounds. South Carolina tried a third drop-kick which also fell short. Black, at this point, made up for his past failures and booted the ball for 50 yards. Boatwright, with the reputation of being the best broken field runner in South Carolina, returned the ball 35 yards. The rest of the half was played near midfield until the final minutes when Davidson made some more of her numerous fumbles and the ball was rushed to her own one-yard line. Here Carolina was thrown for a loss, then Davidson Fresh were offside. Then Carolina was thrown for another loss. With 15 seconds left, the Sandlappers completed a pass for their first touchdown. Score—6-0. N. O. Jones went in for Crayton who had injured his foot. The ball was kept in midfield until Davidson fumbled again and the Gamecocks ran to the 10-yard line before he was finally brought to a halt. The fur and feathers of the cats and cocks were flying thick and fast now, but by consistent line plunges, their second touchdown was made. Williams and Johnson went in for Sappenfield and McMillan respectively. Johnson then proceeded to place a beautiful drop-kick between the posts for Davidson’s only tally. Score—13-3. The South Carolinians scored their last touchdown by a succession of passes which completely baffled the Wildkittens. But intercepting one, they rushed the ball to midfield only to have it taken away again, and with a long pass, the final touchdown was tallied up for the Carolinians, thus making the final score, 20-3. It was a hard-fought contest throughout, a great deal harder than the score indicates. The three initial punts for Davidson and her eight fumbles, of which the Gamecocks recovered seven, were the outstanding reasons for the Wildkittens' defeat. But with a little more practice, they should be able to give the Oak Ridge warriors the battle of their lives.

Vandy, by emerging undefeated from two intersectional contests with Michigan and Texas, shows about equal promise with Auburn’s powerful offensive team of taking off the Southern title. Perhaps Vandy’s hard games are behind her, but Auburn with Georgia, Centre, Tulane, and Ga. Tech still to come will have a real test of her strength.

Always remember...a bald-headed man is not necessarily a man of polish.

DIXIE DOPE By GALLOWAY

N. C. State’s defeat by V. M. I. gives the Wildcats but little encouragement when we consider that the Carolinians outplayed the representatives of the Old Dominion more than half the game and that the margin of victory was no more than V. M. I. beat Virginia last week, 14-0, and that’s forgetting all about losing to Trinity. State has defeated Randolph-Macon and Roanoke and lost to Carolina, W. & L., and V. M. I., but all three of the victors are stronger than they have been in years and the closeness of the scores indicate that A. & E. is right there when it comes to having a football team.

Little is heard from the direction of Wofford. Last week South Carolina won a 20-0 victory over the Terriers at Columbia with several subs in the Gamecock line-up, and earlier in the season Camp Benning won by the same score. Thursday Wofford and P. C. meet in a game that will do much to show the true strength of our Armistice Day opponents.

Carolina’s continued series of victories is winning her a deserved recognition throughout the South. A team that can beat Maryland as bad as Princeton and twice as bad as Pennsylvania is an eleven that won’t miss far the title of “wonder team” that its supporters are giving it. We wonder though if they can lick the Wildcats with a big student body behind them when they meet in Charlotte November 18th.

Saturday Carolina will meet Tulane in a game that will be a big item on a day of big games. Tulane is unscored on, and Carolina is undefeated in the South and the game will go far to show if Carolina really has a look in on the big stage. A team that can keep their goal line free when Red Johnson, Monk McDonald, and Company are hammering away at it deserves to be unscored on.

One of the biggest upsets of the day took place down at Greenville when Richmond beat Furman, 13-0. The defeat will do much to shatter Furman’s prestige in the Carolinas and will make S. C. and Clemson fight all the harder for victory later on.

Davidson handed the State championship to Carolina Saturday when Trinity beat the Red and Black, 12-0. Only a miracle; i.e. the defeat of both State and Carolina by the Wildcats, can undo what the Methodists did last week. The standing in the State now looks somewhat as follows:

W. L. T. Pts. Op.
Carolina .. ..3 0 0 133 40
N.C. State...0 1 0 47 44
Trinity .. .... 2 1 0 90 33
Davidson ....4 1 1 44 52
Wake Forest .2 1 2 57 88
Elon .. ...... 1 2 0 71 44
Guilford .. ..2 1 1 44 50

V. P. I. was eliminated from the Southern race by Centre, 10-7; Tennessee was defeated by Georgia, 7-3, and Alabama routed by Tech, 33-7, all of which goes to show that the big scoring machines are not always the ones to win championships. V. P. I.’s track meet with Catholic University which resulted in a 73-0 win and W. & L.’s slaughter of Lynchburg shifted around the standing of the scoring machines not a little. Auburn and Centre still lead, however.

Auburn—238, opponents, 32, lost 1.
Centre—203, opponents 30, lost 1.
W. & L.—177, opponents 25, undefeated.
V. P. I—177, opponents 29, lost 1.
Alabama—173, opponents 59, lost 2.
Tennessee—171, opponents 14, lost 1.
Georgia—163, opponents 40, lost 1.

No team this year seems to be able to combine a powerful drive with a stonewall defense and the list of the best defensive teams does not show a single name from the list above.

Tulane—104, opponents 0, undefeated.
Kentucky—138, opponents 6, undefeated.
V. M. I.—113, opponents 7, undefeated.
Vanderbilt—78, opponents 10, undefeated.

Look Out A. and E. We didn’t care much about Trinity. You are the goose we will kill to eat. Our claws got the edge off on V. P. I. Watch Us Saturday.

Our Mr. Hallman will be on the campus Monday. See TUBBY WOOLFOLK Georgia No. 5 34 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C. Clothing and Furnishings for Young Men.

The arrival of the John Ward representative is an event which has been followed with interest by many generations of college men, for the John Ward reputation for supplying younger men with footwear meeting their most exacting demand has been established these many years. The John Ward representative displays in the ROOM 106, WEST NOVEMBER 6th.