THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

JUST ASK “IVEY’S.”

The following is a list of things no modern bobbed hair girl need carry: Hair-pins.

A GRAVE SITUATION.
“Here’s an opening for a nice young man,” said the grave digger, as he threw out another spadeful of dirt.

A Joint Affair—Rheumatism.
“I’m all tired out today; too much exercise at the dance last night.”

W. Z. BRADFORD
27 RUMPLE

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSON CAFE
Smiley’s Remodeled—
You won't know it
Well Prepared Food—
The best money can buy, and an expert cook
Well Served—
Table and counter service
Our Specialty.
Real old-time club sandwiches

“How's that?”
“I went to a mute’s ball and swung dumb bells all evening.”

Never run upstairs to wind a clock. Just wait and it will run down.

24—“Why do you call him skeleton?”
23—“Because I can hear him rattling bones all night.”

Here lies my wife
Here let her lie
Now she’s at rest
And so am I.

A GIFTED ONE.
I had a girl, a darling thing,
She used to treat me fine,
She gave me gifts, a tie, a ring,
A jug of home-made wine.
A woolen scarf she gave to me,
Which by herself she knit;
And cigarettes quite probably
The best I ever lit.
She gave me fudge, she gave me cake
It seemed a mystery;
How could she think of things to make,
Just things to give to me.
To give me things she seemed to live—
She'd bring me home to sup;
She gave me all she had to give,
And then she gave me up.

Here is a grading scheme for some of our “brilliant” students. It is suggested that the Prof. give him:
5 per cent for knowing what college he is in.
15 per cent for originality.
15 per cent for arriving on time.
10 per cent for staying full hour.
15 per cent for inventive genius.
10 per cent for knowledge of subject.

Prof.—“What are the names of the bones in your hand, Mr. Brackman?”
Mr. Brackman—“Dice.”

The lives of great men all remind us,
That there are some other gumps
Whose only foot-prints, when they leave us,
Are upon our dancing pumps.

FRUITLESS.
Here lies the body of Edward Jones
An actor by profession.
Some heartless brute threw rotten fruit
And ruined his expression!

The average woman argues about the same way she eats green corn.

You can always tell how much a girl likes to be kissed by how shocked she looks when you talk about it.

Prof.—“Now, Mr. Gentry, we are studying about the pastoral stage in the history of economics. Can you tell us what the Latin word ‘pastor’ means?”
Gentry (rudely awakened)—“Yes sir, preacher!”

FAMOUS ORDERS.
Masonic.
On the Square

Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Prof.—“What’s the most memorable date in History, Mr. Story?”
Paul—“The one Anthony had with Cleopatra.”

Prof.—“Wake that fellow next to you please.”
Archie Keels—“Aw, do it yourself. You put him to sleep.”

Slips
Slips come on pillows, banana peels, icy pavements, tongues, etc. Also once in a while something slips a fellow’s mind. Then again somebody slips something over on you, or maybe somebody slips something over on his boss, or slips something over on the company. A pillowslip is alright, or a cowslip, or a good slide on slippery ice if you keep standing up, but most of the other slips are bad. Generally speaking, when a man is slipping he is about to fall some place. He may hit the pavement, or his bean, or the toboggan slide, but it’s a cinch he’s lost his footing, and can’t stand the pace. If a fellow has to “slip one over” on somebody to get by, the chances are he’s playing a slick game and not a square one. There’s no slippingIf you're keeping step with Safety First, be square, and don't slip.

NICKNAMES FOR SOUTHERN SCHOOLS

Students of Southern Universities and Colleges delight in attaching to their football and baseball teams some picturesque nicknames. The reason for some of these names is easily fathomable, but for others, it cannot be determined, except that they have been used for years. The list of nicknames and some of the reasons for them include:

The Praying Colonels, Centre College, Danville, Ky., because they pray before entering contests and because they come from Kentucky, where Colonels abound.

The Flying Cadets, Virginia Military Institute, Lexington, Va., because they are military cadets and have a fast team.

The Generals, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va., because their university was named for Generals Washington and Lee.

The Fighting Volunteers, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn., because of the title of The Volunteer State, earned by Tennessee in the Mexican War.

The Commodores, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, Tenn., because their institution was named after Commodore Vanderbilt.

The Hatchetites, George Washington University, Washington, D.C., because of the little episode of George Washington with a hatchet and cherry tree, according to popular story.

The Indians, William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va., because the institution was founded back in Indian times.

Broadway (Charlotte)
Katherine McDonald —in— “THE WOMAN’S SIDE”
You will always find a welcome at the Broadway. A Moving Picture Theatre DeLuxe. Features. Special Musical.

The Plainsmen, Alabama Polytechnic Institute, Auburn, Ala., because the institution is situated on the plains of Alabama.

The Hilltoppers, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C., because the university stands on the top of a hill.

The Golden Tornado, Georgia Polytechnic Institute, Atlanta, Ga., because of the swiftness of its team and its school’s colors.

The Purple Hurricane, Furman University, Greenville, S.C., because of its colors and its fast team.

The Crimson Tide, University of Alabama, Tuscaloosa, Ala., because of its colors and the faith in its team’s strength. Also called The Thin Red Line in other years when its team was not so strong.

The Maroons, Mississippi A. & M. College, Agricultural College, Miss., because of its colors.

The Web-Foot Cadets, Carolina Military-Naval Academy, Hendersonville, N.C., because of its military and naval drills.

Ferocious and other animals are favorite nicknames, as will be seen from the following list:

The Tigers, Clemson College, Clemson, S.C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

“After Every Meal” P-K

The Wildcats, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

The Alligators, University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla., because Florida is noted for its alligators.

The Gamecocks, University of South Carolina, Columbia, S.C.

The Terriers, Wofford College, Spartanburg, S.C.

The Horned Frogs, Texas Christian University.

The Bulldogs, University of Georgia, Athens, Ga.

The Spiders, University of Richmond, Richmond, Va.

The Jackrabbits, Emory and Henry College, Emory, Va.

The Yellow Jackets, Hampden-Sidney College, Hampden-Sidney, Va.

The Stormy Petrels, Oglethorpe University, Atlanta, Ga.

The Tigers, Sewanee, Tenn.

The Moccasins, University of Chattanooga, Chattanooga, Tenn.

The denominational institutions’ teams usually take on the name of their religion:

The Presbyterians, Presbyterian College of South Carolina, Clinton, S.C.

The Methodists, Trinity College, Durham, N.C.

The Baptists, Wake Forest College, Wake Forest, N.C.

The Catholics, Catholic University, Washington, D.C.

The State Universities without nicknames are usually called by their State names, except these two:

The Tar Heels, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, N.C., because North Carolina is known as the Tar Heel State.

Ole Miss, University of Mississippi, University, Miss.

We are ready for Fall. Ready with a brilliant variety of imported all-wool clothes. Ready with styles that will receive the enthusiastic approval of men who know “what’s what.” Our shirts, ties, socks, hats, and caps are beyond compare.

Crowell Clothing Company

EVERY WEDNESDAY at THE COMMISSARY