THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

DR. SPRUNT PROMINENT DAVIDSON ALUMNUS

Former Davidson Athlete and Literary Man Ranks High in Life.

Dr. Alexander Sprunt, D.D., was born in Glasgow, Scotland, July 10, 1852. He came to this country in his infancy.
His father traded in the West Indies for a while and finally settled in Wilmington, N. C., where he established
a large and flourishing exporting concern which is still in existence today. Dr. Sprunt’s boyhood was spent in Wilmington. He
was a playmate of Woodrow Wilson’s and attended the church where Wilson’s father was pastor. He was too young to
enter the Civil War. His preparatory education was begun in Wilmington and completed in Upper Canada College, Toronto, Canada. From
there he came to Davidson in 1871. While in Davidson he was captain of the baseball team, besides being secretary,
treasurer, and president of the Philanthropic Literary Society. He graduated from Davidson in 1875 and then entered Union Theological Seminary
of Virginia, which was then located at Hampden-Sidney, Va. He graduated from Union Seminary in 1878. On April 30, 1879,
he was married to Miss Ellen R. Peck, the daughter of Dr. Thomas C. Peck, who was then a professor
in Union Seminary. Among the pastorates held by Dr. Sprunt have been churches in Henderson, N. C.; Rock Hill, S.
C.; and Charleston, S. C. He was called to the First Presbyterian Church of Charleston 21 years ago and has
served there faithfully ever since. Under Dr. Sprunt’s leadership, the church in Charleston has grown until now it has a
membership of over 500. Dr. Sprunt belongs to one of the most widely known and widely esteemed families of the
Carolinas. He is very loyal to Davidson, having been a trustee for many years. He is himself an excellent Gospel
preacher—sane, scriptural, substantial, and able—and loved by all who know him. May there be other Davidson men to follow so
good an example as that set by Dr. Sprunt.

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS HONORED

Ben Lacy to Deliver Baccalaureate Sermon at University of N. C.

Rev. Benjamin R. Lacy, Jr., ’06, who delivered the Armistice Day address at Davidson last fall, is to deliver the
baccalaureate sermon at the University of North Carolina this year. The sermon will be delivered on Sunday, June 11, and
will be the first event of commencement week at the University. Dr. Lacy is at present pastor of the Central
Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga. He is the son of the state treasurer of North Carolina. He was a Rhodes
scholar at Oxford University. He is widely known because of his war record. In 1917 he joined the 113th Field
Artillery, 30th Division, as regimental chaplain. Not content to perform the usual duties of spiritual guide for the officers and
soldiers, he set out to learn artillery. He did this task so well that the general commanding the 30th Division
remarked at an officers’ meeting one day in France: “I don’t set myself up as a judge of chaplains. I
suppose Lacy is a first-rate chaplain, but what I know positively is that he is one of the best artillerymen
in the brigade.” Throughout all the fierce engagements of the 113th Artillery, Chaplain Lacy stayed with it and became known
as “The Fighting Parson.” He returned from France with the artillery in 1919 and has since taken the pastorate of
the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta.

HERE AND THERE

S. A. Robson, ’99, of Gastonia, N. C., has given up a successful shoe business and accepted a position in
the executive office of the W. T. Love chain of cotton mills.

H. S. Richardson, ’06, who is president of Greensboro, N. C., attended a meeting of the executive committee of the
million-dollar campaign, held in Greensboro last week.

Among the alumni who witnessed the baseball game in Winston-Salem last week were T. N. Hunter, ex-’24; Rufus Clarke, ’19;
John W. Moore, ’12; B. W. Romefelt, ’21; and G. L. Bitzer, ’18.

Rufus Clarke, ’19, is now pitching for the Baltimore Orioles. G. L. Bitzer, ’18, is in the purchasing department of
the Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

R. W. (Bob) Walker, ’09, one of the best ends Davidson ever had, isin the cotton business in Greenville, S.C.
Scheeney C. Harris, '17, is with the Roessler and Hasslacher Chemical Company, of New York City. J. P. Laird, Jr.,
'19, is a resident engineer for a telegraph concern in Brisbane, Ill. He has his office at 427 S. LaSalle,
Room 308, Chicago, Ill. C. K. Brown, '21, was on the hill last Monday for the Wake Forest game. Dr.
E. A. Byers, who taught Spanish and German at Davidson last year, was an interested spectator of the Wake Forest
game last Monday. He spent two days on the hill enjoying himself and meeting old friends. Dr. Byers is now
located at Roanoke College, Salem, Va., and is professor of Modern Languages and Biblical History. Lex Kluttz, '15, is teaching
in the American University of Beirut, Syria, which is located 60 miles northwest of Damascus, Palestine. He is planning to
go with a party during the Easter holidays for an extended trip through Damascus, Baalbek, Palmyra, Homs, Aleppo, Antioch, and
other cities.

MARRIAGES.
Doctor and Mrs. Jefferson Davis Funderburke announce the marriage of their daughter Mrs. Ruth Funderburke McLaurin to Mr. John Dunovant
Wylie (ex-'12) on Wednesday, twenty-ninth of March One thousand nine hundred and twenty-two Lancaster, South Carolina. Mr. and Mrs. John
Dunovant Wylie will be at home after the fifteenth of April. Miss Chauncey Blackburn, of Columbia, S.C., was married to
Mr. D. M. L. McDonald, '12, last Monday afternoon at 5 o'clock. Mr. McDonald has been taking special work in
Columbia Seminary and in the University of South Carolina.

DEATHS.
All Davidson men everywhere will be grieved to learn of the sudden and violent death of Dr. Leonard White, '87,
of Statesville, N.C., which occurred on April 1, near Statesville. Dr. White met his death at his own hands by
placing himself in front of a Southern train and being killed by it. According to the story of the engineer,
Dr. White was first seen standing by the side of the track, and just before the engine reached him he
stepped over and stooped down, placing his hands on one of the rails. The engine knocked him off the track
to one side, producing instant death. While in Davidson, Dr. White won the declaimer’s medal and the Junior orator’s medal.
Failing health is given as the cause of the suicide.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON JEWELER of the Vicks Chemical Company, in DAVIDSON, N.C.

A Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, - - Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N.C.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Cluett, Peabody & Co, Inc., Troy, NY
Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N.C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

Everything for QUALITY — nothing for show
THAT’S OUR IDEA in making CAMELS — the Quality Cigarette. Why, just buy Camels and look at the package! It’s
the best packing science has devised to keep cigarettes fresh and full flavored for your taste. Heavy paper outside —
secure foil wrapping inside and the revenue stamp over the end to seal the package and keep it air-tight. And
note this! There’s nothing flashy about the Camel package. No extra wrappings that do not improve the smoke. Not a
cent of needless expense that must come out of the quality of the tobacco. Camels wonderful and exclusive Quality wins
on merit alone. Because, men smoke Camels who want the taste and fragrance of the finest tobaccos, expertly blended. Men
smoke Camels for Camels smooth, refreshing mildness and their freedom from cigaretty aftertaste. Camels are made for men who think
for themselves.
