Vol. X Remember— “Howdy” DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 21, 1922

NEW COLLEGE BELL DEDICATED AS MEMORIAL TO DAVIDSON HERO DEAD

HON. BREVARD McDOWELL, DONOR, OF CHARLOTTE, SPEAKS AT IMPRESSIVE CAMPUS CEREMONY

A ceremony unique in the annals of Davidson College was held Thursday morning. The large new bell was dedicated to
the Davidson boys who made the supreme sacrifice on the altar of patriotism and gave their lives for their country
in the late war. It was also given in charge to the present generation of Davidson boys and to the
untold future generations that are to come.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell introduced the donor, the Honorable Brevard McDowell, of Charlotte, as sometime Mayor of Charlotte, a man
of great service during the war, a man of many achievements and a Davidson man of '69. Doctor MacConnell told
of how Mr. McDowell's friends, even in the far-off hills of sunny France, admired him and how universally beloved he
is wherever he is known. Doctor MacConnell also spoke of the unselfish gladness and willingness with which, out of the
generosity of his heart, Mr. McDowell had given the bell. He told of the pending plans of having the bell
placed in a tower with a clock to strike the passing hours or the possibility of its being placed in
the tower of the future Chambers building.

The donor spoke of his gladness in giving the bell to his Alma Mater and the joy its dedication to
the loyal sons of Davidson gave him. He bore out the statement of Doctor MacConnell that he knew more about
Davidson than any other living person, telling of many interesting experiences he had there and of many exciting incidents that
had happened in the days of the long ago. He then presented the bell to Davidson in memory of her
immortal sons who died in the war.

Doctor Martin accepted the bell in a few well-chosen words, and voiced the appreciation of Davidson and its friends to
Mr. McDowell. He charged the students to ever protect the bell and guard it from all harm. At this point,
Sam Davis, representing the student body, accepted the charge and thanked the donor for the bell.

The honor of ringing the bell was especially reserved for the donor. At the last note of the bell, cheer
after cheer rang out from the students for Mr. McDowell and the bell. The invocation was made by Doctor Richards
of Davidson and Doctor Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, who also made a short and appropriate
talk, pronounced the benediction.

“A college cannot make brains; it merely trains them. It usually makes a smart man smarter, and a fool a
bigger fool.”

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Our Davidson—“Bigger and Better.”

“BUCK” CURRIE SPEAKS AT Y.M.C.A. VESPER SERVICE

Large Attendance at the Initial Sunday “Y” Meeting

The Y. M. C. A. held its opening service Sunday with Buck Currie, the secretary, as the speaker. His text
was from Esther 14:4. “And who knowest whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?”
This question was forcefully brought home to every man present. “Although God is not once mentioned in the book of
Esther, there are (Continued on Page 5) several important lessons to be learned.

FACULTY GREET FRESHMEN AT ANNUAL RECEPTION

Speeches of Welcome Made by Faculty and Student Representatives

The annual reception, given to the incoming Freshmen Class by the College “Y” was held last Monday night in the
gymnasium. From the start of the reception line to the fade-out of the movie, the whole affair was a pronounced
success.

The first event on the program was the usual reception line, including the faculty, their wives and some of the
village folks. Numerous acquaintances were made and everyone seemed bent on giving the class of '26 a hearty welcome. After
having completed the circuit of the reception line and incidentally the ice cream and punch booths, attention was turned to
the formal speeches of welcome.

After a few introductory words by Bob Gordon, Buck Currie, the new “Y” secretary, and Pat Crawford, the president, bade
the new men welcome and assured them of the aims of the association to be of service to them in
any possible way. Then followed speeches by Sam Davis on behalf of the Student Body, Sig. Shepherd for the Athletic
Association, and Talley Elliott for the Literary Societies. Coach Grey also made a short address, outlining the athletic program for
the future and telling of the activities of the Alumni for Davidson athletics. The closing talk was that of Doctor
Shewmake who welcomed the new men in the name of the faculty and expressed their earnest desire to help and
serve them on every occasion.

The final, and perhaps most enjoyable event of the evening was a movie “Over the Border” featuring Betty Compson and
Tom Moore. The music for the occasion, furnished by our orchestra composed of Elkins, Earnest, West and Crane, was much
appreciated and enjoyed by the entire audience.

On the whole, the occasion was a tremendous success toward making the freshmen feel that they are becoming an integral
part of a “Bigger and Better Davidson.”

YOUNG PEOPLES CONFERENCE HERE AFTER COMMENCEMENT

Young Men and Women of Synod of N. C. Enjoyed Davidson Facilities

Beginning on June 6th and lasting through the 13th, two hundred and eighty speakers, councillors and delegates visited Davidson, enjoyed
a splendid series of conferences and get-acquainted meetings, and passed on, singing as they went the praises of the Davidson
campus and the helpful and enjoyable times they had had.

The Conference was held under the general direction of Rev. J. G. Garth of Charlotte. Ten Davidson students remained to
help in the Davidson-end of the Conference, and many were the tasks put upon them and the opportunities for service
presented to them. Arnett Gamble, as local secretary, had charge of the registration and the allotment of quarters and of
seeing that things were arranged for the meals of the delegates at Miss Shumaker’s boarding house. Julian Price had charge
of the athletics and took the delegates on various kinds of hikes and picnics and was also a live wire
in helping put over the musical program and stunts. Curtis Ormond conducted in his own way the Conference store. Wigs
Bradford was Conference postmaster and handled the branch post office in a fine way. Willie P. Burney, Leroy Angus McBryde,
Wilson Moore, Harry Price, and Alfred Moffett did splendid service in helping with classes and conferences, baggage transfer, arrangements, boys’
morning watches, and a thousand and one little things for the added comfort and pleasure of those attending the Conference.

Officials and delegates were strong in their expressions as to the value of the Davidson men to the Conference. College
officials, Mrs. Robson as matron of dormitories, and others contributed to the success of the local end of the Conference.Much
of the lower floor of Watts was given over to the offices of the local secretary, the store, the post
office, and the athletic headquarters. The remaining rooms of Watts and all those in Georgia and Rumple were used for
(Continued on Page 5).

WARREN COX WILL ASSIST IN FOOTBALL MANAGEMENT
Chosen From a Ballot of Seven Juniors

A meeting of the Athletic Association was called by the president, W. S. Shepard, Saturday morning after chapel for the
purpose of electing an assistant Football Manager. Seven names were submitted, from which the two highest were to be chosen
for a second vote. The seven men voted upon were: Cox, Bradford, Chipman, Elkins, McCain, and Phlegar. When the first
vote was counted, it was found that Cox and Elkins were to tie another time for first honors. The second
vote was taken Monday morning after chapel. The final telling of the vote gave the evidence that Warren Cox was
to be the Assistant Football Manager for the session of 1922-23. Albert Hillhouse was chosen last spring as the other
assistant for this managerial position.

GROOMING FOR SPECIAL COURSES OFFERED DURING SUMMER MONTHS
Davidson Professors Conduct a Miniature Summer School

For the first time in a number of years, Davidson held a summer school during the past holidays. Four professors
offered courses. Doctor Grey held a class in French for Juniors, a small class that covered one term of Sophomore
French. Doctor Douglas had a small class in Zoology, and Professor L. M. Currie taught Mathematics. (Continued on Page 5).

ATHLETIC CAMPAIGN WAGED DURING VACATION DAYS
Coach Grey Spends Summer In Interest of Local Athletics

While spending summers of leisure at our homes, Davidsonians were perhaps unaware of one man who was working unceasingly in
the interests of old Davidson. Coach Grey has rendered a service to the athletics of Davidson, for which it will
long be thankful. The first six weeks of the past summer were spent by Coach Grey in making a thorough
tour of the Carolinas in the interests of the Alumni Athletic Campaign. Every town where there were a handful of
Alumni was visited, and every means used to make the campaign a total success. Immediately after Commencement, Coach Grey started
on a two-weeks trip which carried him through the towns and cities of Reidsville, Graham, Durham, Raleigh, Goldsboro, Washington, New
Bern, Wilson, Fayetteville, Raeford, Red Springs, Laurinburg, Maxton, Sumter, Columbia, and Greenwood. He then rested one week and took in
Florence, Darlington, Hartsville, Wilmington, Lumberton, and Charleston. A third trip carried him through Chester, Rock Hill, Winnsboro, York, Gastonia, Spartanburg,
Easley, Greenville, Anderson, and Greenwood. From this six weeks of work, there are some excellent results. About thirty chapters of
Alumni were formed in the interest of Davidson Athletics. In addition to this, practically $25,000.00 is pledged to be paid
within the next five years. The rest of the summer was spent by Coach Grey on a short vacation in
Wilmington, N. C., and Greenwood, S. C., where he rested up and got in “ship shape” for this year’s work
with the teams.

Dr. J. Sam Mitchener, a member of the Class of '09, was a campus visitor on Friday the 15th. Doctor
Mitchener is now with the State Board of Health, at Raleigh.

RED AND BLACK WARRIORS NOW COMING BATTLES
SPRATT MOORE AND HIS MANY COHORTS EAGER FOR A CHANCE AT TWENTY-THREE SEASON

Coach Grey's scrapping Wildcats are busy sharpening their claws for the opening contest with Elon Saturday. The strenuous workouts of
the past two weeks have done their work, and the team is in fine physical trim. Coach Grey is ably
assisted in his work by Coaches Foster, Graham, and Murrill, and the team is fast rounding into form. The Wildcats
lose two All-State men in La Mar and Schenck, but ten letter men have returned as a nucleus for the
1922 eleven. Nappy Davis, Sam Davis, Montague Clark, Brice, Bascom Sorrells, Mason Fields, 'Lias "Gip" Shepherd, and Spratt Moore of
last year's eleven, and Buck McMasters, tackle of two years ago, return. Captain Spratt Moore, the midget half, plays his
last year for the Red and Black. For the last two seasons, Spratt has won laurels for himself as a
spectacular broken field runner, a sure tackler, and an uncanny receiver of forward passes. Mentioned unanimously last season as All-State
half, he was the principal ground-gainer for Davidson, and leading the Wildcats this season, he is going better than ever.
Gip Shepherd, playing his third year at fullback, is the Wildcats' best bet as a plunger. His speed, drive, and
weight make him a hard man to stop. He will bear the brunt of the punting, and his place kicks
will account for many a goal after touchdown. Nappy Davis, who guarded the flank last year, has been shifted to
the backfield. He is a great defensive half, a good receiver of forward passes, and is showing up well at
his new position. Pat Crawford, another likely half, is a hard worker, fast and elusive, and puts ginger and pep
into the whole team. John Hunt is also showing up well as a line plunger and should prove a valuable
man with his end runs. Leonard Dick has the call at quarter with Jim Hendrix as an understudy. Small but
fast, he plays the game well in every department and runs the team like clockwork. Among the freshmen, Laird and
Black are showing up particularly well in the backfield and should get a chance to display their wares.

With several letter men back in the line, the Wildcats present an experienced front, and the thin Red line is
made stronger than in several years. Brice is working at center this year and is a hard man to beat
at his position. Mason Fields has been shifted to guard, and Long of last year's scrubs is playing the other
guard. Bascom Sorrells is out with a game knee but should be back in time for the big games. Montague
Clark and Buck McMasters are playing the game of their life at tackle and will give any linemen in the
state a hard fight for the honors. Sam Davis has been shifted to the end and looks good. He is
recovering from the effects of an operation and should get in the Elon fray. 'Lias Faison on the other flank
is playing the game everyone expects of him. 'Nuff said. Summers, Cox, Briggs, and Patterson are four linesmen who are
showing exceptional ability. Mallory and Regen are having a hard fight for the end position, while Baker and Moore are
also showing up well. Hugh Smith has arranged one of the hardest schedules in several years. One Virginia (Continued on
Page 2).

WILDCAT SPIRIT ALWAYS WINS
