‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

PANDEINIC SOCIETY HOLDS GOOD DEBATE

The first regular weekly meeting of the Pandeinic Society was held on September 28. The usual program was carried out, the meeting being presided over by Arnett Gamble, the president. The program was opened by a debate upon the subject, Resolved, That present conditions in Europe warrant an increase in the active military forces of the United States. The affirmative was upheld by E. H. Mauze and L. B. Gibbs; the negative by D. W. Bethea and R. W. Carr. Mauze’s argument was tense and lucid and his speech was probably the best prepared of any. Carr also had a well-prepared debate and his rebuttal was especially good. The new inter-collegiate method of rebuttals was carried out. The decision of the house was in favor of the negative. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative. Current events were then given by J. H. Grey. These were well selected and well delivered in a very interesting manner. Franklin then recited Lincoln’s immortal Gettysburg address. Professor Wagner, of the English department, was present and in a brief speech made a plea for all literary societies at Davidson. He also expressed his desire to be of aid to the society in any possible way. In the business meeting which followed the regular program, it was voted to have a society sponsor. Due to the length of the program, the election of officers was postponed until next week.

PHI SOCIETY ENJOYS MANY GOOD SPEECHES

The Philanthropic Society held its regular weekly meeting Thursday night, September 28. The query for debate was, Resolved: That the present situation in Europe warrants an increase in the active military force of the United States. On the affirmative were R. M. McGirt and P. J. Story, while the negative was represented by W. P. Brown and R. H. Brown. After heated arguments on both sides, the judges rendered a unanimous decision in favor of the negative. S. R. Sloan gave a very instructive oration on the situation in the Near East. The declaimer of the evening was W. J. Calhoun, who spoke on “The Art of Optimism.” His clear enunciation and poise proclaimed him one of the best speakers on the program. Mr. Russell H. Wagner, Professor of Public Speaking, was unanimously elected an honorary member of the society. Buck Currie, “Y” secretary and an old Phi member, gave a few inspiring and helpful remarks.

ORATION BY SHARPE FEATURES EU PROGRAM

The Eumuenean Literary Society began its literary work for this year in the regular meeting held Thursday night, September 28. The house was called to order by President Elliott, who appointed W. W. Purdy to fill the chair of the vice president in the absence of that officer. Under the head of special business, three new members, Messrs. Rowe, Rogers, and Bowie, were initiated into the society. The regular program followed. The query: Resolved, That the present situation in Europe demands increased United States military forces, was discussed by P. H. Biddle and T. L. Fraser from the affirmative viewpoint, and James McCutcheon and W. J. Cooper from the negative viewpoint. Both the judges and the house unanimously voted for the negative. The outstanding feature of the evening was the oration by W. H. Sharpe. In discussing the matter of the R. O. T. C. and its continuance in the curriculum of various colleges, he maintained that it was a declining and undesirable course. D. H. Ogden, as reviewer, constructively criticized the speeches of the evening.

METROPHILIAN HAVE FIRST ACTIVE MEETING

On Thursday night, September 21, the Metrophilian Literary Society met and 14 new men were initiated into the society as Junior members. No special program was followed. At that time it was decided by secret ballot that the regular time for meeting during the year would be Tuesday night. The society met again on Tuesday, September 26, to follow its first regular program for this session. After the devotional exercises, which were conducted by McBryde, the debate, “Resolved, That the present situation in Europe warrants an increase in the active military forces in the United States,” was entered into. The affirmative was upheld by C. S. Furches and W. P. Kimzey, while the negative was defended by J. A. Thompson and M. W. Trawick. All of these men rendered excellent speeches and showed that they had put preparation into them, even though Mr. Trawick was appointed one without previous notice. The judges gave the decision to the affirmative. The query for the extemporaneous debate was, “Resolved, That Davidson made a mistake by enrolling more than 500 students this year.” C. E. Hodgin was on the affirmative and J. M. Adams was on the negative. The judges gave this decision to the affirmative.

LOCAL POET’S TALENT RECOGNIZED ABROAD

Perhaps no one class of men have so lived through the ages, or so touched the lives and hearts of the rank and file as has the poet. Since the early history of the race, poets have called men to deeds of valor. Through the power of verse, dynasties have been destroyed, armies cheered on to victory, and nations founded. In fact, few men are so well loved and long remembered as our beloved poets. Almost every nation has some poet of whom they are especially proud, such as Burns, of Scotland, Shakespeare, of England, Longfellow, Poe, Whittier, and others of the United States. Statesmen may come, a genius of the business world may go, but a poet lives on forever. At the name of Lanier, Georgia lifts her shoulders with pride, as does all the Southland. It is with a great deal of pride that Davidson joins with the Stratford Company, publishers of Boston, in recognizing the talent of W. F. Galloway, a member of the Junior class, also a native of Georgia. Mr. Galloway’s poem, “A Broken Date,” received honorable mention in this year’s College Anthology. Georgians are not slow in recognizing the gifted of their native born, and at a meeting of the Georgia Club last Saturday evening, September 31, Galloway was enthusiastically chosen as club poet.

SMALL EXPLOSION IN CHEMISTRY LABORATORY

The chemistry laboratory was the scene of what might have been a serious accident last week. While working with some marsh gas, Bill Martin and Shorty Howell were burned painfully but fortunately not seriously when the mixture exploded. Little Bill Joe had his hand burned while Howell is going around with both hands and his left arm bandaged. They were lucky in that none of the fragments struck their eyes. It is stated that the accident was caused by the use of glass instead of metal test tubes.

SPICE OF THE CHARLOTTE TRIP

As a result ofThe trip to the Queen City last Monday had the usual number of humorous incidents that typically occur on such trips. When the ticket window at the Davidson railroad “terminal” opened, free tickets were handed out to the boys. Red McKellar insisted on paying for his, but after numerous explanations, he was persuaded that it was true—something for nothing! On the road, everyone was asked by Bob Davidson to eat at the Central Cafeteria. Most of the crowd went, although they suspected a rake-off. As the line passed the Assay Office, a sign was seen reading: “Go to Texas—Join the Army.” It took three men to keep Alki Jones from joining the army then and there.

Breakfast and Baldy. Jones rushed for the Keith box office and secured a seat in that location, which appropriately describes the condition of his thatch. After the show started, it was noticed that the above-mentioned location was Davidsonian to a man. While waiting on Fourth Street for “eats,” Pomeroy hit upon the bright idea of holding his headgear in such a manner as to show that all contributions would be gratefully received. He made enough to get into the Exposition. Brains!

At last, the profs get shot, speaking from a photographical standpoint. We would really like to know just what was said when the cameraman said to “talk it up.” Many new ways of spelling his name in the book entitled you to a free pack of cigarettes. True to form, when even a fair lady showed herself, cries of “Fire” were sure to be heard. It was a good thing that it was not taken literally, or there would be a lot of repair work for the alarm box man.

STUDENTS INSPECT EXPOSITION
(Continued from Page 1)

Inspection of everything. Many of the articles represented were those used by Davidson men. The Charlotte printers’ booth, for example, had as some of its products, Davidson's annuals, newspapers, and other publications. Going on a few steps, there were found things used in the town of Davidson and other things that we need here. The Kelvinator ice machine, one of which is in the Davidson ice plant, was set up on a smaller scale and in working order. Further down the line, we noted a product that is much needed at Davidson just now. The Harris water system, made at Greenville, S. C., was proving its ability. Compressed air is the basis of its power.

Of interest to everyone in the Carolinas who is concerned with farming was the exhibit of ways and means of combating the boll weevil. To Carolinians, this pest is a relatively late arrival, and every effort is being made to nip its activities in the bud. The different stages of the weevil’s growth were shown, and the damage done to the boll at each stage. If the weevil can be overcome, it will be a boon to the country, for in the Mississippi Delta and other rich cotton sections in the Southern States, the weevil has been, for many years, taking about one-fourth of the cotton crop.

Closely interwoven with the advance of any state is the growth of the railroads that have their centers in that state. The P. & N. Electrical Railway, using power from the great Bridgewater power plant, has grown with the Carolinas, and in their booth were various records in transportation, of which it is justly proud. Perhaps the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit would have been interested in the Boy Scout exhibit there. For Scouts, the exhibit was a sure-enough good one, showing many Indian relics and many evidences of Scout energy and ability. The Southern Engineering Company, of Charlotte, builders of the steel frame for the exposition building and erected in less than three weeks, had a very attractive booth. There were too many noteworthy exhibits downstairs to mention. Upstairs, the booth space was almost entirely taken up with county exhibits and cotton mill products. Taking it all in all, there was everything a person wants during his or her natural life, and afterward, too. “Everything from blankets, baby clothes, etc., to the automobile, represented by the Anderson people, wherewith a man often ends his life, and then coffins and tombstones, that he uses afterward.

D. Little

Questions for Today
Professor (in engineering class): “What's a dry dock?”
Student: “A physician who won't give out prescriptions.”—Dry Goods.

It is said also that Little Brice learned ill: “Travel NY tobacco—every tobacco—tastes better in a WDC Pipe. Our own specially seasoned and carefully selected French briar makes it so. Add to this the super craftsmanship of the Demuth workers, and you'll not wonder that we claim pre-eminence in the quality of our pipes. Ask any good dealer. Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES.”

Statistical Report
DAVIDSON COLLEGE STUDENT BODY
DAVIDSON, N. C. 1922-1923

Preferred Life Work
Ministry: 11
Business: 60
Medicine: 75
Law: 45
Teaching: 40
Engineering: 30
Chemistry: 10
Architecture: 5
Meteorology: 1
Other: 10

Church Membership
Presbyterian: 456
Methodist: 75
Baptist: 60
Episcopal: 40
Lutheran: 20
Catholic: 10
Moravian: 4
Disciples: 3
Non-Church Members: 10

Representation by States
North Carolina: 282
South Carolina: 70
Georgia: 47
Tennessee: 28
Alabama: 26
Florida: 24
Mississippi: 10
Virginia: 15
Arkansas: 10
West Virginia: 6
Kentucky: 5
Louisiana: 4
Texas: 3
Other States: 5
Foreign: 1
Total: 600