THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS MAGAZINE TO ATTEMPT ITS FIRST HUMOROUS EDITION

For the first time in the history of Davidson College, the Davidson College Magazine will be almost entirely devoted to
humor. This is, in one respect, an experiment, while on the other hand, if it is a success, it is
hoped that the staff will put out two or three humorous issues every year, as do the Georgia Cracker and
other magazines. In the March, or Junior Speaking issue, an appeal will be made for men to write for the
magazine. The staff desires that the magazine be as representative of the college as possible, and to carry out this
policy every man who has any literary ability is asked to hand in articles. As the next issue is to
be humorous it is asked that any men having jokes, or humorous short stories hand them in; however, short book
reviews on latest books, Forum articles influencing student opinion, short essays on subjects of general interest and verse, will be
gladly received. The magazine represents the college to strangers and is just what the students make it. So every student
is urged to get busy and make it the best magazine in the South. The management states that the February
issue will be out in about a week.

JUNIORS BEGIN PLANS FOR SPRING JUNIOR SPEAKING

The date of Junior Speaking has been set this year as March 22nd, and extensive plans are already underway to
make this occasion the best in the history of Davidson. The preliminary speeches are to be held in about ten
days and at that time four literary societies will be chosen to deliver their orations at Junior Speaking proper. Four
men will then be selected by competent judges to speak at Commencement. The near approach of the preliminaries is acting
as an added incentive to every Junior to get down to some real hard work in order that he may
better cope with his classmates in the clash for oratorical honors. The Junior class, under the leadership of S. M.
Davis, is making elaborate plans for the social side of the event and arrangements are being made to entertain an
unprecedented number of visitors. Preparations for various social activities are underway, which will aid materially in making Junior Speaking the
brightest spot in the entire year’s work.

DAVIDSON LIBRARY TO AID IN HIGH SCHOOL DEBATING

The Library has received no new books this week but there is one announcement to be made which should prove
especially interesting to high school debaters. The Librarian has collected material on the state-wide query: Resolved, That the United States
should enter the League of Nations. For the benefit of those inter-school teams near enough to Davidson to spend a
day on the campus, a room has been provided where they can study the question and read the material collected.
But, as only one room can be provided, any group of students wishing to come should communicate with Miss Cornelia
Shaw three or four days in advance, so that the material and room may be reserved for their use and
the team notified in regard to it. These young debaters are cordially welcomed to the Library.

EUMENEANS ELECT OFFICERS FOR THIRD TERM OF SEASON

The Eumenean Society selected Rolston Bitzer for its president for the coming term at the regular election on last Thursday.
The usual program was omitted for the business of electing officers. After J. M. Richards had assisted the president in
the devotional exercises, nominations were in order for president. Nearly all of the Senior class were nominated, but Bitzer proved
to be the strongest candidate. The race for vice-president was not so general, but two ballots were necessary before T.
L. Fraser was elected. For secretary, Jones, R. R., and Jones, W. T., were in the second race. Cries of
“Vote for Jones” were heard from different parts of the house, and as a result R. R. Jones was elected
new secretary. The race for reviewer was another close one, Mahood being finally elected. At each commencement a Valedictorian of
the Senior class from each society speaks and is answered by a Respondent from the Junior class. P. D. Miller
was elected Valedictorian and D. H. Ogden, Respondent.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY MEN ARGUE STUDENT COURT PLAN

At the last meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society, the subject for discussion was, “Resolved, That there should be a
student supreme court at Davidson College, to which all appeals from the student council should be made.” G. N. Neel
and J. D. Bernhardt showed that there is sufficient need for a higher student assembly to creditably make use of
some such body as a student supreme court. The negative, upheld by F. W. Smith and M. C. Dew, declared
that such bodies have not yet proved successful. Following the debates a declamation was given by J. D. Brown, and
an oration by W. K. McCain. The motto committee presented the following mottoes for selection: “Prepared for all things;” “Equal
to the burden” and others. The society finally chose “Through difficulties worthy of honor,” to be the new motto.

PANDEINIC SOCIETY ELECTS CHEF McALPINE TREASURER

The Pandeinic Literary Society meeting of February 2nd, was both interesting and unusual in several respects. To avoid monotony the
usual order of the program was varied, the oration coming first, followed by the debate and declamation. The first speaker
of the evening was John McLaughlin who gave an oration on Lloyd George, presenting effectively those qualities which elevated the
great statesman from his simple Welsh home to his lofty position of leadership. The subject for debate was, Resolved, That
the United States Senate should ratify the Four-Power Treaty. E. E. Houghton, first speaker for the affirmative, showed what would
be the beneficial effects of this ratification, should it be carried out. A. P. Hudgins, opening for the negative, brought
out many forceful arguments for his side. G. M. Ford, for the affirmative, pointed out that it would tend towards
a settlement of world issues; whereas J. M. McFadden stated the dangers of alliances. The negative won by a close
vote of the house. The most amusing and entertaining event of the evening was C. T. Wildman’s declamation of the
negro selection, “The Harp of a Thousand Strings.” The election of the society treasurer then took place, and Paul Hamilton
McAlpine was chosen by acclamation. As the last item of the program, it was decided that the number of Freshmen
admitted into the society should be 20, and that the initiation of these Freshmen should take place in the meeting
of February 9th.

PHI DEBATERS DISCUSS THE FOUR-POWER TREATY HOTLY

The Phi meeting of last Thursday night was unusually lively, showing that examinations did not take as much life out
of things as might have been expected. Strange as it may seem the subject, Resolved, That the United States Senate
should ratify the Four-Power Treaty, attracted a good bit of interest. The affirmative was upheld by Russell and McIver, who
had as their opponents Clark and Freeman. The last named of the negative served in place of Kimsey, who was
absent. McGeachy and Knight gave orations that deserved and received hearty applause. The orations were clever and showed a great
deal of originality on the part of the orators.

QUIPS AND CRANKS DESIRES HELP OF SEVERAL GOOD MEN

The 1922 Quips and Cranks will be here about the middle of May, as near as can be determined at
present. Practically all the material will be in the hands of the publishers within the next ten days. The engravings
have all gone in and the literary work is completed with the exception of the basketball and debating sections, which
will have to be held up until the results of the season can be determined. A few snapshots, of a
more or less comical nature are still needed and anyone who possesses any such pictures can turn them in to
R. K. Shaw at 28 Rumple. Volunteers are also needed to do some typewritten copy work and those who can
operate a typewriter and who are willing to help should notify R. K. Shaw or D. L. Mahood.

MAJ. JNO. E. ARDREY MAKES INSPECTION OF R. O. T. C. UNIT

Major John E. Ardrey inspected the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit this week. He arrived on the hill Saturday
and visited the Sophomores and Seniors at their theoretical work. As no R. O. T. C. classes are held on
Monday, he inspected another college on that day and finished his inspection here on Tuesday by observing the work of
the Freshmen. Major Ardrey is a native of North Carolina and was a member of the same company at West
Point as Major Hearn, graduating two years before the Major. Since his graduation,Major Ardrey has served in the main with
the 18th Infantry, on the Mexican border. Major Ardrey was very favorably impressed with the appearance of the Armory and
the Military Laboratory at the Gym. Beyond that, it is too soon to make any definite statement as to the
results of the inspection. This month the Military Department intends to stress rifle firing, especially gallery practice. The rifle competitions
in the Fourth Corps Area will be held early this month, and at least two inter-collegiate shooting matches will be
held next month with Georgia Tech and Northwestern. The teams to represent the college in these matches will be picked
by inter-company competition in which the sponsors are to be honorary members of the teams. The contract with Northwestern provides
that all the members of the team to shoot that match must be Freshmen, so great interest is expected among
members of the class.

D. PAT CRAWFORD (Continued from page 1)

During his Freshman year at Davidson he made his name in basketball, making all the trips, though not having the
fortune to be awarded a letter. In baseball, though, he won the coveted “D” for the first time, playing in
the outfield. In his Soph year Pat was one of the star basketball guards of the state, finding a fit
running mate in Louis Schenck. In baseball he was shifted to first base, where he will probably be found this
year. Pat is popular on the athletic field and on the campus generally, in both of which places he is
known as a Christian gentleman.

D. CUNNINGHAM AND OGDEN GO TO WINSTON FROM LOCAL “Y”

Ed Cunningham and D. H. Ogden made a trip to Winston-Salem Saturday on a Y. M. C. A. deputation. They
spoke to the celebrated Home Moravian Church, talking to a large class of boys at the morning Sunday School hour
and to the regular congregation, together with various Christian Endeavor organizations, at the evening service. Cunningham spoke on Life Service,
making a very strong appeal for service in the foreign fields. Ogden spoke on Young People and the Church, basing
his talk on the second great commandment, “Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with
all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and thy neighbor as thyself.” Every courtesy was extended to these men
and they were delightfully entertained during the weekend, especially by Doctor Pfohl, pastor of the church, who showed them many
unique and interesting articles which are used in connection with the beautiful Easter services.

ATHLETIC NEWS

Court Gossip

Charlotte “Y,” Wofford and N. C. State have in turn tried the Wildcat’s mettle and all have tasted of the
gall of defeat. Run ’em ragged, Wildcats! The team left Tuesday on the North Carolina trip that is to supply
the ancient acid test. A Davidson basketball team has not beaten a North Carolina team away from home in two
years. For three years we have been tongue-tied as it were. Watch us chirp this year.

Foch is the only bird known to history that ever handled more fighters than Coach Dutch. This Wofford team is
a bird for its size, while the State crew is a bear in its own right, but they aren’t the
whole menagerie. This Wildcat bunch fights with the heart of a lion, the gameness of an airdale, the tenacity of
a bulldog and the speed of a gazelle. If anyone can march out a “fightinger” lad than Pat Crawford he
can collect the gate receipts at the next Shearer Hall lecture. This wearer of the non-skid slippers is about the
niftiest player we've seen in this neck of the woods. Old Warhoss Mauze is still going strong. This boy pulled
down sixteen chunks in the Wofford game and added another half-dozen in the State encounter. Groome, lightly touted for All-State
honors, didn’t have a thing on our “not-so-expensive” tip-off man. He and Cap Pat still have their little passing game
that rivals Connie Mack’s pitchers. The cold clammy dope shows that the coming grapple between the Red and Black and
Trinity will be a record-breaking broad jump in the direction of Who's Who in North Carolina Basketball circles. Watch Beall!
Davis again showed his worth as a guard. Nappy cut in with several classy plays and often brought the crowd
to their feet by his sensational work. He also started the Wildcats off right by banging up a field goal
that was a dandy. The weather man is “saying it with showers.” Mallory is another Freshman that is showing up
well. He still has much to learn about college ball but he has plenty of speed and handles the ball
well. Basketball at Davidson is like the backside of Dick Richard’s lap—it has outgrown its seating capacity.

D. “300 Again—Quality First!”

D. TRINITY AND DAVIDSON ARE TO WRESTLE HERE FEB. 18TH

Davidson followers of the mat game will be given their first opportunity to witness an intercollegiate match on the 18th
of this month when the strong Trinity aggregation journeys down from Bulltown to meet the tricky Wildcat grapplers in their
own lair. Although this is the second year Davidson has had a wrestling team, her supporters have not seen it
in action as last season all the matches were off the hill. The team is being rounded into shape by
Coach Harry Bangle, of Charlotte and under the management of Cromartie is preparing for a banner season. The Red and
Black scrappers are expecting a fast match, with the fiercest type of opposition from the Methodists, but are confident of
winning in the majority of the seven weight classes. In addition to the Trinity scrap, matches with Washington and Lee
and V. M. I. at Lexington on the third and fourth of March are pending and also a contest with
the University of South Carolina Gamecocks. Last year the Presbyterians were overwhelmingly defeated by Washington and Lee and V. M.
I. and are out to make a better showing this year. Wrestling is in its infancy in Southern intercollegiate circles
but is fast gaining popularity. This branch of sport deserves the support of every man on the hill and everyone
who is able should come out and at least make the better man work hard for his position on the
team.

The contestants for the heavyweight, above 175-pound class are Montague Clarke and Beef Hinton who have now trained down to
condition for the meet. In the 162-175 pound class Henry White and Red McComb are working for a place on
the team. Among the 145-162 pound grapplers Kelly Tucker and Norman Patterson are having a tough scrap for the honors.
Red Smith and Pat Kimsey are the entrants in the 135-145 pound class. Bevo Davis has very little competition in
the 125-135 pound class, while Cromartie will represent the Wildcats in the 115-125 pound class. No one is out in
the 105-115 pound class and entrants are needed for the class.

D. “300, Again—Quality First!”

D. WILDCATS LOSE TO TRINITY IN HARD BATTLE AT DURHAM

Tuesday evening the Wildcat goal-tossers went down in their first defeat of the season before the drive of the Trinity
“basketeers” by a score of 24-18. The old D. C. fight and pep was in evidence and the Methodists found
out that the Wildcats had a team before the game was over. The Blue and White received a great shock
and things looked pretty dark for the up-staters until three fiercely scrapping members of the undomesticated feline had been ejected
from the game.

Davidson was the first to score and at the end of the first half was leading the Methodists 9-5. In
the second half the Presbyterians battled the Blue and White to the end but their very eagerness hurt their chances,
as Beall, Mauze and Price were banished from the game for personal fouls. The score was tied many times throughout
this half, but the inability of the Wildkittens to ring up scores was fatal.

Crute, of Trinity, led the scorers with 4 field goals and 4 goals out of 11 free tosses. Captain Pat
Crawford, playing at guard and center, starred for the Red and Black, garnering 3 baskets from difficult angles and ringing
up two foul goals for a total of 8 points. Warhoss Mauze (Continued on page 5)

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest. SOUTHERN
REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO. W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Basketball, Tennis, & Ditson goods. 18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. ALL, Faul, Mgr. Phone 902
