THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

THE PEANUT PARCHER

Reporter—“What shall I say in this story about the professor who died?”
Editor—“Refer to him as a finished scholar.”

“How did you get those rust drops on your shoulder?”
“Oh, those are tear drops from Neilie’s steel blue eyes.”

She—“Do you love me, ——?”
“Why, of course I do.”
She—“Then why don’t your chest go up and down like the man in the movies?”

“I see Dave is going to be an M.D.”
“Yes, Dave always was a great cut-up.”

Absence makes the marks grow rounder.

“George was the goal of my ambitions, but—”
“But what?”
“Father kicked the goal.”

Caesar had his Brutus, Napoleon his Waterloo, and the Flunkee his Summer School.

Professor (to student in class)—“I can’t blame you for looking at your watch while I am lecturing, but I do
object to you holding it to your ear to make sure it hasn’t stopped running.”

Snag Bailey wishes to tell the man that took his razor blades to come get his razor as he has
no further use for said instrument.

Professor—“Mr. McLeod, what is usually used as a conductor of electricity?”
Frank—“Why er-er—”
Professor—“Correct, sir. And what is a unit of electric power called?”
Frank—“A what, sir?”
Professor—“Very good; thank you, sir.”

Professor—“Mr. Haye, what is the ‘Blue Sky Law?’”
Baldy—“Air traffic laws, sir.”

Did you ever stop to think that if Noah had met a submarine, we wouldn’t know what's watt.—Selected.

Sudden Change. “Coffee Dogs” are fast taking the place of the once famous “Tea Hounds.”

Squawk. “Here’s where I go up,” said the umbrella, as it began to rain.

Weekly Question. What has become of the O. T. boy who wore his trousers so tight they had to be
fastened up the side?

Now Listen. The game of “horseshoe” is in vogue again, but Fresh are barred.

Uh! First—“Do you know the Devil’s number?”
Second—“No, why—was he speeding?”

Wrecker! She (of 190 lbs., sitting on his lap)—“I guess you are tired, I’d better get up.”
He (weighing the same—too, in weak voice)—“That’s all right, I’ve been numb since 8:30.”

On Bug—“In what class is the junebug?”
Sleepy Student—“Senior; Pres’t. of Y. M. C. A. also.”

Song Hit by Frank Montgomery. “Roll me over, Tubby, this arm (?) is getting tired.”

Our idea of a lazy man is one who drinks restaurant soup through a straw to keep from working his
jaws over a home-cooked chicken.

Here He is. The bird who invented the looking glass is the man (or woman) to blame for man having
to spend half his life waiting on women.

“You're as wild as the deuce,” said the Profs. claim that they'll get their reward over yonder. The question is;
do they prefer hard or soft goal?

She—Please just—
He—No, I said—
She—But you—
He—No, now that’s—
She—Why can’t—
He—I have said—
She—I’ll die if—
He—Mary, you promised to stop painting.

Suff—“What is an anecdote?”
Guff—“A short tale. Why?”
Suff—“A man told me my dog had one, and I wondered if it was a disease.”

Bob Mc—“My brother and I bought a cow last summer. He paid half and I paid half. I started to
milk the cow and he said: ‘Stop, that’s my half.”
Ray D—“What did you do?”
Bob—“Stopped feeding my end and his end died.”

“500 Again—Quality First!” D.

PROSPECT FOR ADDITIONAL DORMITORY NEARS REALITY

The plans for the new dormitory have been practically completed, and with the letting of the contract, which may take
place any day now, the work will begin on the structure. This dormitory will be modeled along the latest designs
for college buildings and will differ somewhat from any now on the campus. It will be four stories high with
a basement in addition, and the front will resemble old Chambers to the extent that four columns support the roof.
Only in the front rooms of the first story will there be running water and lavatories in the individual rooms.
The second, third and fourth stories will all be alike, with a common lavatory designed somewhat like the present ones
in Rumple, but in a larger room about halfway between the front and rear on each hall. The heating and
lighting of the rooms will be similar to the system now in use, and each room will have two closets,
placed side by side as are those in Georgia and Watts. This new dormitory will be...

DAVIDSON MEN TO ATTEND STATE “Y” CONFERENCE

The annual state meeting of the Y. M. C. A. will be held this year in Greensboro, February 14th and
15th. Preceding this meeting, a conference of employed officers will be held, following it the conference of student delegates. This
last meeting will be the one of special interest to Davidson men.

The main purpose of this annual meeting is to hear and approve the annual report of the State Committee. Another
important purpose is to get each department of the whole Y. M. C. A. organization to see the work of
the other departments and to learn the work of the entire organization. At the meeting will be representatives from the
following classes of “Y” associations: railroad, industry, county, city, boys’ work, and student. There will be speakers from several eastern
states. Cleveland, O.; Atlanta, Ga.; New York City and Lynchburg, Va., will be among the cities represented by speakers at
the conference. North Carolina will be represented by two of her college presidents, Dr. H. E. Rondthaler, president of Salem
College, and Dr. W. A. Harper, president of Elon College.

At the conclusion of the State Conference the Student Conference will be held. Our Davidson Secretary, Dwight Chalmers, planned this
meeting in his capacity as State Student Secretary. Davidson’s delegates to this conference were elected by the Junior Class and
are...The largest of the four, containing over 70 rooms, and built east of Georgia, will add a great deal to
the attractiveness of dormitory row and to the impressiveness of the campus as a whole.

WILDCATS LOSE TO TRINITY IN HARD BATTLE AT DURHAM
(Continued from page 2)

secured 1 field goal, and 2 foul goals out of as many attempts, while Mallory and Beall contributed 6 more
points. The fouls of the Wildcats gave the game to the Durham lads, who caged 10 goals out of 20
attempts, while Davidson scored 4 out of 8. Each team scored 7.

—Harry F. Comer.

Colleges will be entertained in the homes of Greensboro people. Harry Russell, Bob Davidson, and Hugh Smith. The program of
the Student Conference will be as follows:

What Our Y. M. C. A. is Doing—General Conference.
The Student Friendship Fund—Dr. E. C. Lindeman.
The Elements of An Average Program Organization for Bible Study—Edwin S. King.
Typical Comer, On to Blue Ridge—E. S. King.
Opportunities for Service—Dr. H. E. Rondthaler.

Every college in the state will be represented by two or more delegates. The Trinity quartet will furnish music for
the entire meeting. Trinity will be the only college that will be represented by her newly elected officers for next
year. The delegates from the various Deputation Work—Harry F. The Davidson “Y” will pay for part of the expenses of
her three delegates. Dwight Chalmers, of course, will attend the entire meeting.

“LE DERNIER MOT.”
Dern ye who? Wrong, “dernier” (it) is not a “cuss” word. That phrase (so the French “studs” tell us) means
the “last word.” That’s just the point, the last word. The last word in styles, spring styles for young men.
The latest out and the absolutely correct things in college men’s wearing apparel. Fellows, that is what the men are
saying who have been in Charlotte this week. A large number “just dropped in to look around” at Ed. Mellons
before the concert Monday, and the above is what they saw. The spring goods are there—suits, hats, shoes, caps, shirts,
and ties. All are ready for you. Remember it is only a few weeks until Junior Week. It’s time now
to think about that suit if you want to (Adv.)

TOWN NEWS.
The Wildcats put up a hard fight and at no time until the final whistle were the Methodists sure of
victory. The Wildcats hope to give a better account of themselves in the return game at Charlotte Monday night and
will show the Methodists that they still have sharp claws.

Mrs. Hearn gave a farewell party Saturday evening for her mother, who leaves this week for her home in San
Antonio, Texas. Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Rumple are visiting Doctor and Mrs. Martin.

Trinity. Position. Davidson.
Ritch (2) ----------------- Mallory (4)
Spikes (8) ---------------- Beall (2)
Richardson (2) ----------- Mauze (4)
Crute (12) --------------- Crawford (8)
Price ---------------------

Substitutions—Trinity none. Davidson: Boggs for Crawford; Crawford for Mauze; Staley for Beall; Ormond for Price. Four goals—Crute 4 out of
11; Spikes 6 out of 9; Crawford 2 out of 6; Mauze 2 out of 2. Referee: Stewart.

The Alumni Athletic Committee met with the Faculty Athletic Committee last week for a consultation on future athletic affairs for
Davidson.

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN
New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45. Featuring the new 4-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes.

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN CO.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists. Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet
Music and Everything in Music.

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.

Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A HOME COMPANY
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
B. J. Spencer, Mgr.
A HOME BUILDER
