THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

Religious Activities

DOCTOR WALTER LEE LINGLE

Doctor Lingle is an able, experienced speaker and is one of the most influential and valuable men in the Southern
Presbyterian Church. The book, “Who’s Who in America,” says of him:

“Walter Lee Lingle, clergyman; born Rowan county, N. C., October 3, 1868; son of Wilson Alexander and Martha Jane Lingle;
A. B. and A. M. Davidson College, 1892 (D. D., 1906); graduated from Union Theological Seminary, 1896; post-graduate work, University
of Chicago, 1896; married Alice Merle Dupry, of Davidson, N. C., January 2, 1900; ordained Presbyterian minister, 1896; instructor, Union
Theological Seminary, 1896-8; pastor Dalton, Ga., 1898-1902, Rock Hill, S. C., 1902-7, First Church, Atlanta, 1907-11; McCormick professor of Hebrew
language and S. S. work, 1911-14, professor of Church History, pedagogy and missions, 1914—, Union Theological Seminary; editor-in-chief Union Seminary
Review; manager Southern Presbyterian Conference, Montreat, N. C., July-Aug. each year; president Board of Trustees of Davidson College; moderator Presbyterian
Synod of N. C. in 1915 and of Southern Presbyterian Church in 1920; member International S. S. Lesson committee since
1914; democrat; member Beta Theta Pi Frat.; club, Hermitage Golf; contributor to religious periodicals; address, 610 Chamberlayne Ave., Richmond, Va.”

VOLUNTEER BAND IS ADDRESSED BY HUDGINS

Perrin Hudgins spoke on the subject of “Spiritual Cripples” at the regular meeting of the Volunteer Band Sunday. He said
most everyone carries crutches to support their spiritual failings. “One of our crutches is our doing what everybody else does
because ‘Tom, Dick and Harry’ do it; continuing in the general drift, regardless of whether it is right or not.”
He said such little things as overeating may place a barrier between man and Christ. If those little sins are
not worth giving up now, they are not worth giving up at all. A little delay may cost eternity. The
surrender of life to Christ is the least we can do, and with the exercise of faith in Christ’s power,
a more perfect life will be attained. “Everything is to be gained and nothing to be lost in being a
Christian,” said Hudgins, quoting Billy Sunday.

Perrin Hudgins and Ted Jones, with the quartet, were sent on a deputation to the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte
on October 26. Hudgins reported that they spoke and sang at the Sunday school service, also in the intermediate department,
then at a Mission Sunday school in the afternoon. Hudgins spoke on “The World to Be Evangelized: Crossing the Ocean,
Street, and Heart,” and Jones talked on “Consecration: Why, When, Where.”

It was voted to unite the Volunteer and Ministerial Bands in a union meeting Sunday morning at 10 o’clock. It
was suggested that the Volunteers and Ministerial candidates alternate in conducting the meetings. The Ministerial Band has not yet voted
on this matter.

Mid-week prayer meeting for Volunteers was definitely decided to be held in the Phi hall every Wednesday evening at 7
o’clock.

WORK ON CHURCH ANNEX PROGRESSING RAPIDLY

After long delays in the delivery of material, due to the railroad strike, work has been resumed on the annex
to the Presbyterian Church, and rapid progress is being made toward its completion. The addition to the church should be
ready for use within a few weeks. The annex, which is to be two stories high, is on the eastern
end of the present auditorium. It will be a valuable addition to the church. The ground floor, which will be
30 feet by 45 feet, will be used especially by the Sunday School Department, and will also be the place
for church socials. The second story, which will be a part of the main auditorium, will contain 150 seats, and
in this way will greatly relieve the crowded condition now existing in the church.

MOORESVILLE IS HOST TO CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS

On Saturday and Sunday, November 5th and 6th, the first convention of the new North Western Christian Endeavor Union of
North Carolina was held in the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville. The most important speakers on the program were Chas.
F. Evans, Southern Field Secretary, and Frank Wilson, the North Carolina Field Secretary.

The attendance at the convention was a representative one. Many Davidson boys availed themselves of the opportunity and attended these
services. On Saturday afternoon the session was held at Prospect Church, about five miles from Mooresville. Reverend White, pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, conducted this session. The afternoon address was made by Mr. Evans. In his talk
he presented the goals of the North Carolina State Union for the present year. After his address the convention was
served a picnic supper by the members of Prospect Church.

The Saturday night services were held in Mooresville. Mr. Carr, who led the singing for the Davidson revival, was song
director for this session. He was elected superintendent of the department of Sunday school and Young People’s work. He discussed
this work in a short talk.

W. I. Milton presented the Christian Endeavor Training Class of Davidson. He also discussed the matter of deputations. Messrs. Evans
and Wilson gave a stereopticon lecture on “Christian Endeavor in Dixie and What It Has Accomplished.”

At the Sunday afternoon session the Junior society of Mooresville presented a unique program. Their topic was “Prayer.” This program
was followed by a pageant presented by the Mooresville Intermediate society. Mr. Evans then discussed Beechwood Seminary of Kentucky and
its needs. He asked that every society pay its pledge to this school through the church treasurer. Future conventions and
Endeavor plans were discussed by both Mr. Evans and Mr. Wilson.

The Sunday night session was the last of the convention. The topic was “Prayer.” Reverend White made a talk on
“The Power of Prayer.” Mr. Evans’ address was “What C. E. Has Accomplished Throughout the World.” He spoke of its
power in the lives of young people. The consecration service was then led by Mr. Wilson. Upon the appeal for
life work recruits, eight Davidson students responded. Two new recruits enlisted at this closing service. The convention was dismissed with
a prayer by the pastor of the Barium Springs Church.

NEWS OF THE CHURCH

The auxiliary of the church met last week and was addressed by Mr. Bosch, of Cuba on “Missions in Cuba.”
His talk mainly concerned itself with the educational side of mission work. His thoughts on this subject were full of
interest and helpfulness. Mrs. N. T. Smith conducted the devotional part of the exercises.

Last Tuesday Circle Number Two held an all-day study class in the Civic League Hall. The text-book for the circles
is “The Unfinished Task,” by Homer McMillan.

SOPHOMORE CLASS TEAM TAKES ON CONCORD “Y”

Last Wednesday night eleven husky basketball stars from the Sophomore class hurried through their supper, piled into two Ford cars
waiting in front of White’s, and sped through the country to Concord, where they were scheduled to meet the fast
“Y” team of that city. The stellar quality of the visiting team had been well advertised, and a good crowd
was on hand to see the game. The Concord “Y” was represented by a real basketball team, and there wasn't
anything easy in store for the Wildkittens. “Rat” Long, a former N. C. State player and other former college stars
were in the line-up.

The game began promptly at 8:30. The first half was nip and tuck all the way. Pete Mitchell started the
scoring by dropping in a field goal from the middle of the floor, but Concord duplicated this feat a few
seconds later. Due to the small court, and several new rules which were introduced by the Concord referee, the Sophomores
made numerous fouls, and at the end of the first half the “Y” was leading, 13 to 10. Each team,
however, registered four field goals in the first period.

The next half saw the Sophomores turn the tables completely. Showing splendid teamwork, they completely outclassed their larger and more
experienced opponents. On the defensive they were at their best, and allowed the Concord boys only one field goal, while
they themselves were collecting five. The final score was 23-18. There were no outstanding stars for the Sophomores. The entire
team played well and no substitutions were made. Those making the trip were: Staley, Mitchell, Anderson, Morrison, Koenig, Boges, Ocland,
Wharton, Brice, Taylor, Price and Beall.

Hear Bishop.

SEVERAL REVIVAL MEETINGS (Continued from Page one)

A Christian’s problem lies in determining how to proportion his money between business interests, personal expenses and gifts.WEDNESDAY EVENING

The services opened on Wednesday night with a well-arranged, appealing address on what is considered by many to be the
greatest verse in the entire Bible—John 3:16. The exact meaning of the word “believe” was explained. It means more than
simply not doubting the truth of the Bible. If we believe in Christ, we will put our trust in Him
and will seek to do His will.

THURSDAY EVENING

The text was Matt. 16:16, “And Simon Peter answered and said, ‘Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living
God.’” Peter would never have followed Christ unless his trust and confidence had been won by the authority expressed in
Christ’s face and the perfection of His daily life. Christ, who is able to save to the uttermost, demands that
we follow Him and entirely submit our will to His.

FRIDAY EVENING

What is a Christian? This question was solved Friday night. A Christian must have Christ at the very center of
his life. Christ must be Lord of all, or He is not Lord at all. That peace which the world
can neither give nor take away is found only in Christ. The footpath to peace lies in the verse, “Come
unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.” A quartet, composed of
Vic Brown, Ted Jones, Buck Currie, and Bob McLeod, furnished special music.

Doctor Lingle took his text from Acts 9:16, “Lord, what wilt Thou have me to do?” the first words of
the Apostle Paul after his conversion. “We are all face to face with the same problem,” said the speaker, “the
problem of our lives. Man stands with an immortal soul—the life of which stretches into eternity. The question before each
of us is, ‘How can I make my life count most for God and humanity?’ Many young men drift into
life, drift through life, and drift out of life, with no purpose in view, and leave the world no better
for their having lived in it. If we all seriously face the problem of our life work, there will be
a different result.”

Doctor Lingle discussed the method of selecting a life work, taking the example of the Apostle Paul. “First, we must
ask God's guidance, and be willing to do, to go, and to be as God wishes, always standing ready to
do His will. We must answer to the call, as did the child Samuel, ‘Speak, Lord, for Thy servant heareth.’
The speaker also called to mind Isaiah, who, when he heard the call, made the ready response, ‘Here am I,
send me.’ The real powers in the church are those who are willing to be obscure, to sacrifice themselves for
others.

“Then we must take an inward look; we must take an inventory of our lives, and see in which direction
our talents lead us, and so invest our lives in the field where they will be for most good. Look
outward; behold the field, the world. Consider the needs of the world. Think imperially—consider the various callings of the world,
the needs, the possibilities, your talents for those places, and ask God's leadership in your choice.”

At this point, the speaker put in an earnest plea for men to stop and seriously consider the ministry as
a life work. “The need for ministers of the Gospel is great. There goes up a great cry for more
ministers. At present, in our own denomination in the Southland, there is a great cry. Two hundred ministers are needed
today. Take the manward look—the friendward look. God sometimes uses man to make His will known to other men. In
approaching your life work, let Him have full control of your life. Put on the altar your most precious possession,
your life.”

At the close of this stirring appeal, Doctor Lingle asked of those present the following questions: “Are you willing to
be what God would have you to be, to go where He would have you to go, and to do
what He would have you to do? Do you wish to rededicate your life to His service? Do you wish
to make a profession of Christ for the first time?” After each question, he asked those willing to answer in
the affirmative to stand.

SUNDAY EVENING “Y” SERVICE

The climax of the services was reached at the regular Sunday “Y” service. Doctor Lingle’s subject was “Lord, What Wilt
Thou Have Me to Do?” No man can definitely decide this question for another, but definite principles can be given
to go by in seeking an answer to it. We should do as Paul did when he faced this question—look
upward to God, look outward to the need of the world, and look friendward to others. The only life you
have to live should not be permitted to drift. In response to the question, “Are you willing, in so far
as you can interpret God’s will, to be what God wants you to be, to do what God wants you
to do, and to go where He wants you to go?” about 85 percent of the audience arose. About 60
percent reconsecrated themselves to a closer, more loyal life of service.

SUNDAY MORNING

A masterful address was given on the subject, “How Can I Grow in My Christian Life?” Imitating Christ’s life is
a slow process. It is not instantaneous. Three rules of growth were given—taking the proper food for the soul, living
in a wholesome environment, and by exercise. A religion that is worth living is worth passing on to others. In
that way can we grow Christians.

SUNDAY EVENING CHURCH SERVICE

The extreme value of the soul as compared to other things was clearly shown. Riches give no permanent satisfaction. The
world itself will pass away. The only endurable thing is the soul. In determining its value, infinity must be multiplied
by eternity. God and Satan bid for your soul. Whose bid will you accept?

MINISTERIAL BAND

After congratulating the Ministerial Band members for accepting such a holy calling, Doctor Lingle stated that if he had 10
lives to live, he would live them all in the ministry. He stated that in order to be a successful
minister, a preacher must never make a statement unless it first means something to him personally. The message must be
direct and from the heart rather than from the mind alone.

FRESHMAN TEAM IS VICTOR

(Continued from Page one)

the ball deep in the Freshmen’s territory in Oak Ridge’s possession. Several drives by Sherrill and Hollingsworth put the ball
on Davidson's five-yard line with four downs to carry it over. Davidson held, however, and the ball went over. Johnson,
standing behind his own goal line, kicked 40 yards out of bounds. Davidson recovered the ball on a fumble and
made several nice gains on passes. The half ended with the ball in the middle of the field in Davidson’s
possession.

The second half developed into a kicking duel between Sherrill for the visitors and Williams for Davidson, interspersed by several
gains by Black and MacDonald, who seemed to be able to gain at will. But fumbles proved costly, and Davidson
lost the ball. In the last period, Davidson advanced the ball into Oak Ridge’s territory, but Johnson failed at goal.
The Freshmen recovered a fumble in the middle of the field and soon had the ball on Oak Ridge’s 10-yard
line, but the necessary punch was lacking, and the ball went over. Instead of kicking, Oak Ridge attempted to pass,
which Black intercepted and dashed 15 yards for the Wildkittens' second touchdown. Johnson failed at goal.

Line-up and summary:

DAVIDSON (13) OAK RIDGE (0)
Position
Rake (C) .................. Holbrook Right End
Daughtridge .......... Turner Right Tackle
Rothstein ............... Baker (C) Right Guard
Cox .......................... Wooten Center
Waggoner .............. Shield Left Guard
Patterson ............... Brantley Left Tackle
Creighton ............... Jones Left End
Williams ................ Hollingsworth Quarterback
MacDonald ............ Flowe Left Halfback
Black ...................... Sherrill Fullback

Time of periods—12½ minutes. Referee—Pharr (N.C.); umpire—Jackson; headlinesman—Christenbury (Davidson).

Davidson Oak Ridge
