THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

Religious Activities

BURNEY TELLS OF HIS MOUNTAIN MISSION WORK

At the regular meeting of the Volunteer Band, L. P. Burney gave some of his observations and experiences concerning the
Home Mission work in the Blue Ridge mountains. He spoke particularly of those mountains in Virginia situated at the source
of the Dan river.

“The first thing that one notices,” said Burney, “in these mountains, especially in the late Spring, is the exquisite beauty
of nature and the far-reaching view from the mountain tops. Upon closer observation, however, small, crude log cabins may be
seen. If you know their conditions, you will ask yourself, ‘Why have these people never known God? Why have they
no education? Why have their children no Sunday School? Why are their family circles Christless?’ Their conditions are never exaggerated;
it is impossible to picture them unless you have once seen them.”

“These people are not responsible for their conditions,” said Burney, “living 30 to 35 miles from any civilization. Their ignorance
is responsible for their sins.” Burney asked, “Who is to blame, these people who know no better, or we who
live near them and have education and Christianity, but do not go and teach them?”

Burney concluded by saying that such conditions almost draw him away from his resolution to become a foreign missionary, but
if these people are in such a condition in the most civilized nation on earth, how fearful must be the
lives of many in pagan countries.

BIBLE CLASSES DISCUSS CHOICE OF LIFE WORK

The mid-week Bible classes met last Wednesday night at 9 p.m. The topic for discussion was, “How Do Campus Choices
Affect Life Work?” The subject deals directly with the choosing and preparing for a vocation. Making the right decision in
regard to a life work is next in importance only to becoming a Christian. In a great number of cases,
this great decision is made in a very haphazard way. The question, “At What Can I Make the Most Money?”
causes many a misfit; too often also distinction is the sole object of a man in his profession. Some men
find it so easy to drift along that they just drift into the first job available, either for the money
it may pay, or for the easy life that it may present. The line of least resistance is not a
straight road to success.

It is the part of a Christian to avoid choosing his life work in the ways mentioned. He should do
all in his power to find the place in which he will fit. This may be done by finding what
he is best suited to do, what he would like to do, and what he is divinely appointed to do;
talent plus inclination and inspiration. It is distinctly a college problem because at this period of a man’s career the
real life work is chosen; a man knows what he can do, what he would like to do, and should
find out what he ought to do. If obstacles present themselves, they are not always a test of one’s power
to overcome them, but mayhe meant to turn one from the path that he is following into a better one.

MINISTERIAL BAND HOLDS FREE DISCUSSION MEET

The Ministerial Band secured variety in its program Sunday by holding an open meeting for free discussion by all. The
majority of the members present responded to the invitation of the leader, W. A. Gamble, to relate how some particular
Bible verse or song has helped them. Some verses quoted were Rom. 8:28; 10, Gal. 6:9, Ps. 14, and John
3:16. The songs referred to were “Have Thine Own Way, Oh Lord,” “God Will Take Care of You,” and “I'll
Be What You Want Me to Be.” The incidents which were related as being connected with these verses and songs
were interesting and undoubtedly gave them richer, fuller meaning to those present.

The Ministerial Band voted to unite with the Volunteer Band in their Sunday services. This question has been discussed by
both organizations and both have voted to unite their Sunday service into one large service; the two bands alternating in
handling the program. It is believed by many that the united efforts of the two organizations will accomplish more than
the divided efforts of the two.

CLASS BASKETBALL (Continued from page two)

However, they were completely mowed under in this last 20-minute period, collecting only one point themselves, while the Juniors added
20 to their count. Rarely did the Juniors miss a basket. Time after time Elkins dropped in points, and before
the last whistle blew he had 14 points to his credit, making him high point man for the evening. McBryde
was runner-up with 10 points. For the Freshmen, Parker was especially good, making a couple of sensational shots, while Caddell
was also in the limelight. The game ended with the Juniors holding the long end of a 31 to 10
score. This victory shows that Captain Elkin’s basketeers are most decidedly still in the race for the rag. Look out
Sophs!

JUNIORS (31) FRESHMEN (10)
Position
Elkins (14) .......... Parker (5) Forward
McBryde (10) ........ Coulton (2) Forward
Speir (0) ............ Davis (1) Guard
Curtis (0) ........... Caddell (3) Guard

Foul goals—McBryde 2 out of 4; Speir 0 out of 2, Davis 1 out of 3, Caddell 1 out of
2.
Substitutes—McConnell (4), McMillan (1).
Referee—Beall.

Watch Charlotte go over the top.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

The more they cheered the more their wonder grew—
That one small team could scrap the way they do.

Style is the mark of quality

Be guided in your choice of clothes by one simple rule: look for Style. It’s the mark of quality. That’s
why we have Society Brand Clothes—known for their style. We recommend them—always and heartily—for men who buy their clothes carefully.
A wide variety of styles—yours is among them. Four, three, and two-button suits, loose and shaped to the waist.

Society Brand Clothes range in price from $40 to $65
Unusual Values at $50

THE TATE-BROWN CO.
