THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

At both of these meetings, the “Y” quartette gave several selections. On Monday morning, Price and Chalmers spoke at the
high school and two other locations. The Schwager interests in Chile have asked for a “Y” secretary for the work
allocated to the association for a year by the American Episcopal Church. There is a need for Spiritual Doctors, as
out of 90 percent of the people who are reached by commerce, only 10 percent are reached by spiritual means.

ACTIVITIES | CHRISTIAN

COLUMBIA QUARTETTE AND WORKERS COMING SUNDAY.

All Davidson students and townspeople who heard the Columbia Seminary Quartette last year will be delighted to know that the
“Y” has succeeded in getting it back again. Next Sunday, a group of about six men from the seminary will
have charge of the church and “Y” services. With the exception of one man, the same quartette that we heard
last year will be here. The quartette will also sing at the picture show Saturday night.

McKEITHEN, McILWAINE, AND MOORE TALK TO VOLUNTEERS

A very interesting mission study program on Japan was conducted by Harold McKeithen, Bob McIlwaine, and Wallace Moore at the
Volunteer band meeting in the gym last Sunday morning. McKeithen, from the standpoint of the student of Japanese affairs, spoke
of Japan’s rapid growth and acquirement of the advantages of civilization. This has come about not merely by imitation of
others, but by her own exertions; also mentioned was Japan's growing policy of fairness toward China, agreeing to return to
China all of her disputed territory as soon as China pays her the majority of the 50,000,000 marks agreed upon
as adequate reimbursement for Japanese expenditures in Shantung, etc.

McIlwaine and Moore then spoke from their own experience and observations of the relations existing between Christianity, Buddhism, and Shintoism
in Japan and the work of the Christian missionaries there, which, according to a statement by Col. Alfred E. Buck,
late U.S. Minister to Japan, has been worth more to Japan than all other foreign influences combined.

“500 Again—Quality First!”

RURAL SCHOOL ATTENDANCE HURT BY THE BAD WEATHER

The attendance at all the country Sunday Schools was poor last Sunday, largely on account of the bad weather. Shearer
had probably the best record with thirty members and four teachers present. After Sunday School, the regular church service was
held. Sunday night, Gamble spoke there in the interest of Christian Endeavor. There will be a prayer meeting Wednesday night
and a social Friday night, both at eight o'clock. At Brawley’s, the attendance was good considering the condition of the
roads and the bad weather. There were 23 members present. No services were held at Oak Grove on account of
weather conditions.

C. E. TRAINING CLASS PUTS ON EXPERT ENDEAVOR STUDY

On the fourth Sunday in January, the Christian Endeavor Training class among the students started a class in Expert Endeavor.
The Training Class itself was organized last fall under the auspices of the Christian Activities Committee of the Y. M.
C. A. The new class is only another step forward, which, it is hoped, will provide a means for further
advancement along Christian lines. The expert course is to last ten weeks and when completed will entitle the successful ones
to wear a Christian Endeavor badge and also to place these letters after their names when writing Christian Endeavor correspondence.
At present, the class has an enrollment of 24 students. At the end of the ten weeks’ course, an examination
in Expert Endeavor will be given and those making a grade of 75 or above will be considered successful. The
class is being taught by Arnett Gamble, who is himself a Christian Endeavor Expert. During the fall, the work of
the training class was given to the discussion of the general problems of the Christian Endeavor field. At the close
of the Expert Course, the general conferences and presentation of plans will be resumed.

“500 Again—Quality First!”

MINISTERIAL BAND MEMBERS HAVE FREE FOR ALL TALKS

Last Sunday’s Ministerial Band meeting was without the customary program and instead was opened to matters pertaining to and suggestions
for the promotion of the band’s work. After the devotional service, discussion took place on the advisability of an attendance
campaign. Different methods of conducting this campaign were brought out but it was finally decided to refer the matter to
the attendance committee for its consideration. Personal work was stressed at this meeting as the opportunity and duty of all
Christians on the campus. The importance of the proper spirit and understanding of the individual with whom one is dealing
was shown to be of great moment. The value of prayer and especially its relation to the short morning watch
was attested by a number of those present. Plans are at present under consideration for conducting a watch every morning
for the term. Those who have tried a short watch alone in their rooms or with a few others can
easily note the worth of getting a good start before each day’s work. A deputation to Gastonia has been arranged
and other deputations are being planned for the spring term. The band is looking forward to the visit of the
quartette from Columbia Theological Seminary next Sunday. These men are real singers and some good music is anticipated.

“500 Again—Quality First!”

“Y” DEPUTATION HAS FULL PROGRAM IN CONCORD TOWN

The deputation sent to Concord last Sunday, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., composed of Junebug Price,
Dwight Chalmers, Wallace Purdy, and the “Y” quartette, spent a very busy day, both on Sunday and Monday. Price, Buchanan,
and Chalmers spoke several times on Sunday, and three times Monday morning. The quartette sang seven times on Sunday and
ten times on Monday morning.

The quartette sang at the First Baptist Church at the morning service, where the pastor preached a powerful sermon on
the subject, “Dogmatic Christianity Pragmatized.” The first service in the afternoon was held at 2:30 in the First Baptist Church,
being a meeting of all the B. Y. P. U. societies of Concord. Dwight Chalmers was the speaker at this
service, and chose as his subject “Loyalty to Christ,” the B. Y. P. U. watchword. At 3:00 o'clock, an open
meeting was held at the Y. M. C. A., where a large and interested audience heard Price and Buchanan. Junebug
told of the home life of a Chinese boy and that of the Chinese girl, making some striking contrasts. He
brought out forcibly the method of teaching in the schools, that of requiring the pupils to memorize their work page
by page, and explained how difficult it is for a Chinaman to receive a degree. Stewart Buchanan followed Junebug with
an interesting discourse on the life of a missionary’s child in Japan. He explained the wonderful hospitality and politeness of
the Japanese people in an unusually interesting way. He told of the different games played by Japanese children. Many instances
were cited by him to show the intellectual abilityand mechanical skill of the Japanese boy. At the Boys’ “Hi-Y” meeting,
held immediately after the open meeting, Price and Chalmers were the speakers, taking the subject “A Winning Team.” A goodly
number of teen-age boys were present at this meeting and showed a great deal of interest in the speeches. Price
spoke first, bringing out in a convincing manner three ways in which John the Baptist was an ideal teammate: (1)
He followed instructions; (2) he was loyal to his captain; and (3) he did not claim the praise for the
victory. Dwight followed up this talk with a well-chosen speech in which he pictured Christ as the captain of a
team and gave some striking instances to bring out why Christ is the ideal captain. He mentioned three of these
qualities: cheerfulness, courage, and helpfulness.

Graded schools on “Clean Scholarship.” Price spoke on “How to Study,” and compared cheating in scholastic work to stealing, concluding
with the statement that a person who signs his name to work which has been copied is a liar. Dwight
in his talk gave some good reasons as to why a pupil should study. The work of the quartette was
the feature of every meeting. They had complete charge of the music at the evening service of the First Presbyterian
Church, the program including two quartette selections, a violin solo by Buchanan, and a vocal solo by Allison. Monday morning
at three schools the quartette sang with repeated encores their selections ranging from “Tuck Me to Sleep in my Old
Tucky Home” to “Mr. Moon.” “O! Davidson” was the most popular selection at every stop. Wallace Purdy proved a versatile
artist at the piano, performing on all sorts of instruments without the least sign of uneasiness. The fact that they
have been invited to return is an evidence of the merit of the quartette.

* * * * *

GOING AROUND THE WORLD WITH THE “Y.”

“A year ago I came to Europe and made a diagnosis of the economic situation. This year I came back
to Europe to try to write an economic prescription. I am becoming more and more of the opinion that the
only solution of the present world difficulties is the spiritual solution.” Frank A. Vanderlip, at Geneva, Switzerland, in a conference
granted to D. A. Davis, Y. M. C. A. Secretary.

* * * * *

In America. Colleges in the South report the following numbers in attendance at the Bible study groups: Virginia Polytechnic Institute,
300; University of Kentucky, 380; Georgia Tech, 700; University of South Carolina, 200; North Carolina State, 350; University of Alabama,
350. The colleges of Arkansas in which Sunday School is not compulsory have just closed a two months’ contest in
Sunday School attendance. Henderson-Brown College led. Reports through the office of the State Student Secretary show that an average of
forty-eight percent of Arkansas college men attend Sunday School each Sunday. Williams College has completed a Williams-in-Soochow campaign, raising in
two days $5,800 from a student body of 500. This campaign is largely the growth of a year’s program of
missionary education. The largest previous missionary gift by Williams students was $500. University of Pittsburgh reports a good attendance at
a weekly “straight religious talk” at the noon hour. Dickinson College is raising $1,500 for the support of a teacher
in West China Union University. As this issue goes to press the goal has very nearly been reached. Maryville College
publishes a weekly Bible study bulletin that is distributed on Sunday.

In Other Lands. One of the “People’s” delegates from China to the Armament Conference is David Z. T. Yui, National
Secretary of the Y. M. C. A. Marked increase in interest in religious work last year in Hankow, China, caused
the Y. M. C. A. to add two new secretaries to their staff, to give full time to religious and
evangelistic work. One is a Chinese from the Wesleyan Church and the other is an American.

Central Hotel Cigar Stand Selwyn Hotel Cigar Stand Joe D. Smith, Mgr.

At their mines. They want a “man of vision, of certain experience and with a large heart.” Nothing has ever
been done for the coal miners of Chile; and if the right man is secured he could do a piece
of evangelistic work in virgin ground and could win countless souls, ragged-edged but valuable, for Christ. A chorus and an
orchestra under the supervision of a good musical instructor are innovations in the Smyrna “Y.” Both are done at the
expense of the association, and along with the valuable free lecture program, are very popular with the “Y” members there.
A reflectoscope, recently installed, is of great value and has been much appreciated. Hoping and expecting that it will be
the Boy Scouts of Cuba, the Boys’ Work “Y” Secretary of Cuba has worked out a plan for the Cuban
“Rufiteers.” This he has worked out in Spanish and it has been adopted for Boys’ Camping teams and the leading
Boys’ School in Havana.

FACTS ABOUT JAPAN AND AFRICA

Here are a few of the facts about Japan considered at this week’s Bible class: Only two-hundred-and-twenty-first of the earth’s
area lies within its boundaries, while one twenty-first of the earth's population is centered there. While 74 percent of Japan's
population are farmers, only 14 percent of her land is suited for cultivation. Two and one-half acres is the average
farm for a family. Literacy among the men is 90 percent. Boys cannot marry until they are 17, girls until
they are 16. Some advance information is given here about Africa, which will be studied next week. The continent of
Africa has an area four times that of the United States and a population which comprises one-thirteenth of the population
of the earth. In one place the birth rate is 26.6 per 1,000 and the death rate 53.5. This indicates
the need for doctors and sanitary measures.

We Cater to the College Men When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe Polite Ladies to Serve You Mrs.
Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr. East Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Visit Our Fountain All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies Tryon
Drug Co. 200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

By the Word of God. Mecklenburg Hotel OPPOSITE DEPOT O. C. ANDREW, Mgr. The Hotel of Comfort 200 Rooms 150
With Private Bath CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE RALEIGH Charlotte’s Best Cafe J. T. Matthews, Prop. Phone 3486 221 W. Trade St.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY Charlotte, N. C. Local agent J. W. Phillips 75 Chambers

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, NY.

SHOES FURNISHINGS We are ready in this line Army Shoes Dress Shoes and Tennis Shoes We also have a good
line of FURNISHINGS Knox & Barnette

It Wakes You Up In Bottles Delicious and Refreshing Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
