4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............... Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH.................. Forum Editor
L. D. ELKIN.................. First Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN.................. Campus Editor
W. M. COX.................... Second Managing Editor
H. OGDEN.................... Y.M.C.A. Editor
R. R. JONES.................. Assignment Editor
E. H. MAUZE................. Social Editor
C. F. WILDMAN.............. Athletic Editor
W. M. COX.................... Literary Editor
C. F. WILDMAN.............. Alumni Editor
W. M. COX.................... Press Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec-Treas.
ALLISON, J.
BITZER, R.
CALHOUN, M. P.
HERRERA, F.
JONES, J. R.
JONES, K. R.
KNOX, W. I.
LACY, T. A.
McILWAINE, C. M.
McIVER, D. D.
MOFFETT, A. N.
MOORE, W. H.
PRICE, H. B.
TULLER, C. D.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

Special Reporters for this Issue Are:

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER............... Business Manager
JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, G. GUILLE........ Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT MCCAIN.............. Circulation Manager
S. C. FAIN.................. Assistants in Circulation Department
E. THROWER
E. C. MOOMAW............. Asst. Circulation Mgr.
R. B. LILES
J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

It is with deep sorrow that we of the student body have learned of the recent bereavement of R. W.
Graves and of L. D. Elkins. We know that the hearts of everyone go out to these men in their
misfortune. By this simple word we wish to express to them, the one who has lost his father and the
one who has lost his brother, the sympathy of the entire student body.

D: Wildcats, we are for you strong through thick and thin. If Davidson can’t win every time, certainly our spirit
need not fall. Success will seem even better when it comes.

Once more tradition held true, and the terrible Sophs conquered the Fresh in their annual fall baseball game. What Freshmen
team will ever have the courage to do their very best in such a situation?

D: Now that we have become used to doing without rain, how are we ever going to get accustomed once
more to real Davidson weather. The months of steady rain which we always have will give us so much water
that we’ll all feel like we are swimming.

D: In the interest of the management of the moving picture shows, in fact of the student body itself, we
want to say a word here against a habit that has been recently growing up at the movies. This is
the custom that men in the gallery have of throwing lighted cigarette butts down upon those below. It is hardly
necessary to mention the evils that will result from this, since we all realize that it is being done thoughtlessly.
However, everyone can readily see the harm that will be done to the basketball floor just as the season is
starting. This act, also, is really dangerous to the men upon whom these lighted cigarettes fall. We certainly don’t want
to bring troubles upon the men giving us the movies, fellows, so let’s cut this out!

D: DAVIDSON DAY IN CHARLOTTE

All who went down to Charlotte Monday have just the feelings that we have, a most pleasant, profitable and significant
day. Those who failed to get there for any reason have missed a treat. From the time that the train
left Davidson at 7 that morning until the last car got back that evening, every minute was filled with pleasure
and enthusiasm. There are no adequate words with which the men of Charlotte can be thanked for what they did
for us. Our appreciation has been expressed to them already, but its effects will be lasting, plainly visible here in
the years to come. Indeed the thoughts that were expressed in the speeches that day cannot fail to accomplish the
result we all want, a closer co-operation between Charlotte and Davidson.

D: A DISTINCTION WORTHWHILE

Davidson is a college that has quite a wide reputation, and especially is she noted for the men of ability
she sends each year from her doors into practically all the fields of endeavor. To train men of this calibre,
it is evident that our curriculum has to be of a high standard, and the fact that this is undoubtedly
the case is a source of pride to us. The Phi Beta Kappa Society, which recognizes and rewards outstanding efforts
of those working earnestly in their pursuit of knowledge, is one in which membership is highly prized all over the
country. Certainly it is fitting that men at Davidson should have the opportunity to gain access to membership in this
society. To make this possible, a determined effort has been made for a number of years to bring a chapter
here and now this effort has met with success. There is nothing that could give a man a greater incentive
to work and try to excel in his studies than the prospect of wearing the Phi Beta Kappa key. In
after life it is a thing that speaks for itself as practically nothing else can. With the coming of the
society to Davidson, there should come, also, a renewed interest in scholastic effort, with every man striving to win a
key.

Thoughtlessness

For quite a while there have been a few thoughtless boys at our weekly picture shows, who think it is
funny to throw burning cigarette butts down from the gallery on the heads of the audience below. In the first
place the Y. M. C. A. has requested that there be no smoking at all in the gym during the
shows. There are always a large number of ladies present who would rather that you didn’t smoke there. Not one
of us would think of entering a public movie theater with a cigarette in his mouth. In the second place
our coaches have asked that no lighted stubs be thrown on the basketball floor. We have a good floor and
should be proud of it. This is not an unreasonable request to make of the student body. It is not
an infringement of your freedom or your personal rights. It is an appeal to your gentlemanly instincts and your usual
common sense.

DON QUIXOTE.

Wake Up

Where is that old Davidson spirit? That never-say-quit spirit? The spirit that doesn't get discouraged because we had a little
hard luck? Where is it? There seems to be a lack of it just like there is a lack of
water. It looks like the Davidson brand of pep was built on water and now that it is running a
little short, the pep is also giving out. What's the matter with everybody when they are at a game? There’s
not as much yelling there as the Georgia Club gave at its feed the other night. Wake up! Show a
little life! If you think you haven't got a team you haven’t got one. If the Davidson student body wants
to kill this year’s football team, the best thing it can do is to keep up this air of pensive
resignation that everybody assumes when football is mentioned. You have got a football team; you have a team that you
can make the best in the State if you want to bad enough. But it is just as much up
to you to show a lot of pep as it is to the team, and more so. No team is
going to fight when there is the measly spirit backing it that was shown out here at the Elon game.
And what is worse, the P. C. game seems to have thrown cold chills over everyone to the extent that
few have dared say that it was just a spell of momentary hard luck. Few consider that the team went
down to P. C. with the memory of the Elon game in their minds; a game at which there was
no yelling, no pep, nothing. No, it isn’t the Freshmen alone, it’s the upperclassmen as well; nobody opens his mouth.
It’s like a bunch of mutes at a game, but even mutes would wave their hands or knock on the
seats. Wake up!—Show some life! Speak to fellows when they pass you. Have a good word for a football man
when he passes you. Buck up your team. They have the stuff in them and it is up to you
to bring it out. Don't mope around at a game or sit tensely thrilled and softly murmur, “Press forward.”Davidson. Get
out and yell till your throat wears out and then keep on yelling. It won't hurt if somebody stares at
you;—this means you, you upperclassmen. And as for the Freshmen, you've come to college now. We've got a real school
here and real spirit too, and a d—n good team. We've also got a vigilance committee which is going to
start working 24 hours a day right now. You ought to yell to show that you have the right stuff
in you, but if you won't do that, you had better yell because the vigilance committee will get you if
you don't. Show the team we're behind them and they will do their bit.

An Appeal
You wearers of the royal toga, chosen heads of Davidson activity, who are decomposing and passing into dust, turn over
in your spider-webbed tomb of inactivity: stretch your benumbed arms and give us one long sepulchral cry. Let the students
whom you represent learn your whereabouts that they might plant upon your barren graves a lone forget-me-not. The students of
Davidson College are about to lose a precious heirloom, something handed down from student body to student body in the
past, that unconquerable thing known as WILDCAT SPIRIT. Will the leaders of our campus activities stand idly by and see
a thing as noble as this grand old institution of learning itself, pass into oblivion?

Where is that old spirit that held Wake Forest on the last chalk line last year for seven consecutive downs?
Where is that old fight that would not let the Tar Babies cross our goal line? Where is the spirit
that has heretofore made the campus hum with activity? We cannot say it is dead—a thing so immortal! It lies
dormant and no one seems to be interested in its resurrection. WAKE UP, YOU WHO ARE IN AUTHORITY. There is
no doubt but that you will have a whole-hearted following. The new men, once they are properly enlightened as to
Davidson customs, will eagerly seek to carry them out—but how few times they have had the subject broached to them.
Not even a decent pep meeting has been held. No one has appeared before a student body meeting to praise
the name of our Alma Mater. How many—rather how few times have the Freshmen heard the strain of “College Ties,”
or even “O Davidson!” How meager have been their opportunities to practice the college yells. “What is the trouble with
Davidson?” comes from the outside. Not until our leadership steps from the rut and asserts itself will we be able
to send back “she’s all right!”

Socrates held that an acknowledgment of ignorance was the fundamental basis of the acquirement of wisdom. By a direct application
of this bit of truth, we might say that an acknowledgment of a serious hitch in Davidson activity, due to
a lack of leadership, is the first step toward the correction of that evil. But that doesn’t get us far
enough. There must be some FIGHTING and DIGGING, and active LEADERSHIP. And the greatest of these is LEADERSHIP.

A STUDENT.

COLLEGE PHILOSOPHY—GOOD AND OTHERWISE
The prophet of old proclaimed a wonderful chemistry of life when he said: “A merry heart doeth good like a
medicine.” And the great beauty of it is that it doeth good not only for the self, but for the
companion, the friend, and the neighbor.—Technician.

Few girls can keep secrets; when they learn that they have perfect figures they dress in a manner that the
world will get wise to their secrets.—Va. Tech.

We often hear physicians say that women have learned not to wear tight skirts. Why do they include the word
tight?—Va. Tech.

The thing to remember is that the thought is always parent to the act. There gets into our lives by
way of habit exactly what we allow to get into them, and never more, never less.—Technician.

A female cynic is a college girl who hasn't had any kisses. Sometimes the girl who cannot be kissed is
the one whom someone always kisses.

Boy (on train): Buy Edgar A. Guest's latest work, mister.
Man: I’m Edgar Guest himself.
Boy (unabashed): Then buy “Man in Lower Ten.” You ain’t Mary Roberts Rinehart, are you?—The Salemite.

Electricity travels 11,600,000 miles a minute. You would never guess that it runs the street cars.—Maroon and Gold.

CAMPUSISMS
Mrs. C. J. Freeland, of Crowley, spent Friday here with her son, P. B. Freeland, ’25. She was on her
way home from Vermont where she has been visiting relatives.

The whole student body sympathizes with Liston D. Elkin, '24, in his recent bereavement, in the death of his 14-year-old
brother, which occurred at his home in Waycross, Ga. He had been sick for a short time with typhoid fever.

Among those spending the weekend off the hill are Ted Koenig, John Ballard, and T. B. Brown, who took the
foot-path to their homes in Greensboro.

A MERRY DRAMA. In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes.
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and a no less prominent junior; in matters of dress, his taste is more conservative and
substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Third
REFLECTION
Mack—Say, Bill, that was some trip those Charlotte folks gave us.
Bill—Righto you are—sure was white of them. Hope that they pull the same stunt again next year.
Mack—Well, I won't be here, but for your sake I hope they do.
* * * *
By the way, Bill, think that I will write a note of thanks to the owner of the car I
went down in. Better do the same.
Bill—Just like you—I sure will. Say Mack—Did you get to look around the stores much?
Mack—I did NOT, say if they didn't have every minute in every hour crammed I'll give “fifteen” for the new
boarding house rules. Figured that I would drift around to Mellon’s and look at his fall suits but never got
a chance.
Bill—Me too, to that. Say what’s your idea about buying clothes anyway?
Mack—Well to me the situation is just about like this: The buying of a suit of clothes is something of
an investment—not in a stock certificate, to be sure, but it’s an investment and it should be an investment in
good wear and good appearance. The first cost will be a little more but—mark what I say—cheap clothes are cheap
in price only. My motto is a good suit of good make from a reputable dealer.
Bill—For instance: A good Hart, Schaffner & Marx mixture from a concern like Ed Mellon.
Mack—Exactly—(adv).

—To be continued next week.
