Stop in and See Us Saturday

MELLON’S

The REMINGTON PORTABLE TYPEWRITER

YOU NEED ONE

W. J. Cooper
2 WATTS
College Representative

START RIGHT and Get the Habit
FEED at L. A. ELLIOTT’S
DAVIDSON, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

In Economics 3, last Friday, Bascom Sorrells gave information to the class that ports are built near the water.

Dithy Rambo
Written by Vachel Lindsay.

Singeringa, bingeringa, bingeringa, clang!
Here come henries in a big black gang!
Boomilinga, boomalinga crick-crock-crack!
Here comes a trolley on a one-way track!
Street car motorman talking to a jane
Flivver drivers all have flapper on the brain.
Oh, what a mess, now! Look out! Look out!
Rattle—Clang—BOOM!

Under the discussion of trespass in law the other day the question of aviators being guilty was brought up. “Yes, the courts are all up in the air in regards to aviators," said Professor Currie.

Fluctuations in the Stock Market
Fleischman’s yeast rises.
Smith Brothers’ Cough drops.

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
‘Mack’ Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his room-mate and a no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Eighth
THE COMPLETE MAN

Mack—How’s this for a parody on “Grandma Williams” old dear?
Bill—To tell the truth I have not heard it as yet.
Mack—Well you won’t suffer under that disability long, here goes—
“Oh, a woman’s as young as she feels,” she replied.
So just try to get that in your noodle;
And I ain’t had such fun since your grandfather died.
Say, they’re starting the band, Let’s toddle.
Bill—Huh!
Mack—See that gentleman on the right.
Bill—Yes,
Mack—Let’s “dress” him. I’ll start at his head:
A Stetson hat, I’ll wager a dime.
Bill—No takers. But say he ought to have on one of those new brush felt light weights Mellon just got in the other day. Jakey Smith says that they’re the stuff. I’ll assign his suit to Hart, Schaffner & Marx.
Mack—Righto you are. Since Hart and the rest of them made the suit reckon that I’ll have to put a Hickey-Freeman label in the overcoat.
Bill—There’s no better. Going back up, seven to eleven the shirt is a Manhattan.
Mack—Ditto on the athletic.
Bill—Can’t see his feet but if they’re not encased in interwoven and a good pair o’ Clapps you can have my job.
Mack—Don’t want it, but say that’s a line to conjure with.
Bill—It is—and remember you can judge a store by the company it keeps. Likewise you can remember it when we hit Charlotte Saturday.
Mack—Yea, indeed, thou spakest a parable.—(adv.) (To be continued next week).

It doesn’t make any difference how big the puddle is, a frog is just as big as he is. When you say you'd rather be a little frog in a big puddle, it simply means that you haven't got the pep to be a big one.

A New College Yell
Horse and Wagon, Horse and Wagon,
TEAM! TEAM! TEAM!

The Passing of Arthur
“Seven!” “Seven!” “Eleven!” “Kleven!” “Bang!” Arthur passes.

We have at hand a report that Queens College is going to build a dormitory for girls seven stories high. What’s worrying us is, how high is the dormitory to be?

Rube Curdts—"Coming back to Davidson next year Johnnie?”
Johnnie Smith—"Yes; I was thinking of going to some other school, but it would look bad for Davidson and far be it from me to ruin its reputation.”

The Heights of Laziness
Breaking a cigarette in half so you will not have to draw the smoke so far.

Prof. in Economics—“During the war the high price of cloth caused the short skirt to become so fashionable. Now that cloth is so cheap the French government has brought long skirts back into fashion in order to use more cloth.”
Chink Woods on rear seat—“Let’s have another war.”

First he took up Latin
Then he took up FRENCH;
And when the poor boob finished,
They laid him in a trench.

Prof—“If there is any one in this lecture room who doesn’t like my lectures will he please leave.”
Entire class makes a wild scramble for the door,
Prof.—“Here, here, I didn’t say class excused.”

The Flapper’s Prayer
Lead usNot into temptation but show us where temptation is and we will find it.

Fresh Hedrick—“I want a leave of absence for the weekend to see my sister as she passes through Charlotte.”
Dean (quickly)—“How long have you known her?”
Hedrick (absent-mindedly)—“About two weeks.”

Dr. Hood (in psychology, looking straight at George Hodgin)—“Our next lesson will be on the causes and effects of feeble-mindedness.”
Mr. Bryan—“What’s Darwin’s theory?”
Fresh Bryan—“Monkey business.”

Okey Allison—“Do you know what a man loses by going to college?”
Guy Weeks: “No! What is it?”
Okey—“Sleep.”

Izzy Thames—“What’s the matter with you, Dave?”
Dave Beathea—“I got a frog in my throat.”
Izzy—“I thought so. You look like you’re ready to croak.”

A margin is like a Freshman’s head. They are born blank spaces.

Hear Bishop.

Last Friday on Sprunt Field the Davidson and Salisbury High School teams fought to a 3-3 tie. The first quarter opened with Salisbury receiving. They made several long gains by bucks and a forward pass to Morton netted 20 yards, advancing the ball to Davidson’s seven-yard line. Here the Wildkittens held and the ball went over. Long gains by Black and Bohnman advanced the ball to the middle of the field and then Grey made a 30-yard run putting the ball deep in Salisbury’s territory. A few minutes later Bohnman drop-kicked a perfect goal.

At the beginning of the second quarter, Salisbury started to amble down the field, and with steady drives at the line and ends, advanced the ball to Davidson’s 15-yard line. Morton drop-kicked a field goal, tying the score. The second half proved to be more or less of a see-saw affair, featured by Grey's long run of 40 yards around the right end. Late in the third period, Salisbury advanced the ball well into the Wildkitten’s territory, but lost the ball on a fumble. Davidson recovered, but was forced to kick. The last quarter opened with the ball in the middle of the field in Salisbury’s possession. Both sides tried passes, but most of them were incomplete. In this quarter, Haynes made some gains through Davidson's line, but was always stopped when he reached the 10 or 15-yard line. In the last minute of play, Morton tried for another field goal, but Arbuckle broke through, intercepted the kick, and ran 30 yards before he was thrown. The game ended with the ball in the middle of the field in Davidson's possession.

For the visitors, Haynes and Overton gained the most ground, while Morton played a good game at the end. For Davidson, Grey and Black were the chief ground gainers, while Johnson and Joe MacConnell did good work in the line.

“After Every Meal”
WRIGLEY'S
FOR FIVE CENTS
The Flavor Lasts!

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

SALISBURY HIGH AND WILDCATS WILL MEET IN QUEEN CITY SATURDAY

Next Saturday Davidson will battle with Wofford on Wearn Field in Charlotte. The Wildcats, with defeats by Trinity and State behind them, are anxious to break into the “win” column and expect to use the Wofford game to get them there. The Wofford team seems to be but little stronger this year than last. Despite the fact that Rip Major has the Terriers under his care, they have anything but a brilliant record. Carolina and P. C. have each taken turns in tying the can to the p. Comparative scores indicate Red and Black is due to win by at least four touchdowns, but this is Old Man’s Dope’s year—to be upset—so the Wildcats are taking no chances. The players will welcome the rest afforded by this game preparatory to the week of hard work that is sure to precede the Carolina game. Everything here on the Hill is being pointed toward that game which the Wildcats are determined to win. The Wofford game is but a stepping stone to higher things, but be sure to Watch Your Step!

Hear Bishop.

A team that never quits is never licked.

Compliments of
M. C. BRADLEY BARBER SHOP
6 East Trade Street

J. A. PRESSLEY
For Good Service
BARBER SHOP
12 East Trade Street

W. Z. BRADFORD
27 RUMPLE

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager
NEXT DOOR TO WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO.

We carry a big line of PIPES, CIGARS, CIGARETTES, and SODAS
Anything in the Smoking Line
H. & H. CIGAR CO.
32 South Tryon St.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY