THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

TWO DEBATES WITH OTHER COLLEGES ARE ARRANGED

The Davidson Debating Council has arranged for two intercollegiate debates for this spring. The first of these debates is to be with Randolph-Macon College and will take place March 3rd, at Peace Institute in Raleigh. The second debate will be with Wake Forest and held at Queens College in Charlotte on April 7th. The subject for the Randolph-Macon debate will be: “Resolved, that Congress should provide for a department of education under a Secretary who shall have those powers and duties set forth in the Smith-Towner bill,” with Davidson upholding the affirmative. Davidson won the debate last year and Randolph-Macon the preceding year, so this time will determine the best two out of three.

The subject for the Wake Forest debate is to be: “Resolved, that the Federal Government should own and operate the coal mines of the United States, Constitutionality waived,” with Davidson upholding the negative.

The first preliminaries for the Randolph-Macon debate will be held just after exams, those for the Wake Forest debate early in March. It is the sincere desire and hope of the Debating Council and literary society officers that every man possible go out and help Davidson win these two contests. Three of last year’s intercollegiate debaters are back, J. H. McKeithen, W. A. Gamble, Jr., and R. Bitzer. It is hoped that many men will go out and make these men hustle to keep their places.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE TO BE HELD SOON AFTER EXAMS

The main item of interest in Davidson’s literary world is the approaching Junior-Senior debate. Last year the contest was won by the Philanthropic Society when they downed their old rivals, the Eumeneans. This year, however, two new societies are in the field, the Metrophilian, daughter of the Philanthropic, and the daughter of the Eumenean, which has not been christened. The Eumenean Society is out to avenge last year’s defeat, but last year’s winner and the new entries are well up in front and it will be a gruelling race to the tape.

The question for discussion is one of international interest, concerning the autonomy of the Philippines, an important phase of the age-old struggle between the East and the West. The preliminaries in the Philanthropic Society resulted in the choosing of J. I. Knight, H. K. Russell, and S. R. Sloan as representatives of the former winners. L. A. Taylor, L. P. Burney, and W. M. McLeod will represent the Metrophilian Society. The representatives of the other societies will be chosen Tuesday night. The debate will be held several days before the start of the mid-year exams, the exact date not having been definitely arranged.

PLEASANT TIMES SPENT BY MEN HERE DURING HOLIDAYS

Although for various reasons it was impossible for eleven boys to go home for the holidays, at the end of that festive period they voted unanimously that they had spent a most enjoyable time on the hill. For, not only was the rest refreshing, but the time was very profitably passed at checker tournaments, tennis, and golf. At the latter two, they were ably assisted by several young ladies who were visitors on the hill for the holidays.

LIBRARY RECEIVES VOLUME OF THE MENTOR MAGAZINE

The library received a most delightful and valuable Christmas gift from Mr. J. C. Harper, ’15, of Winston-Salem, N. C. in the form of five bound volumes of the “Mentor Magazine” with an index to the pictures bound in a separate volume. All who know of the beautiful pictures issued bi-monthly by the Mentor Company will appreciate the great value of this addition to the reference department.

The library also received from Mr. A. J. Morrison of Washington, D. C.; five volumes of historical value, books about early American life. Mr. A. J. Morrison is a grandson of Dr. R. H. Morrison, Davidson's first president.

POWER HOUSE WHISTLE NOW CALLS STUDENTS TO CLASS

There was much talk before Christmas as to just what would replace the old bell of Chambers. Many suggestions were made but nothing was decided upon definitely. Bugles were used to give warning for classes until something better could be devised. Major Hearn was put in charge of this and he appointed his R. O. T. C. buglers to blow the calls for classes. It was a reminder of prep school days to hear the brass bugles tooting out calls from over the campus.

When college reopened last Wednesday, Doctor Martin announced that he had a surprise for us in the way of an alarm for classes. It wasn’t long before everyone knew what it was. The first time the whistle blew, it sounded so much like a factory siren that certain Fresh on the campus started looking for their overalls. The steam whistle certainly is an improvement over the bugles, though, and is a well-conceived idea. The grand old bell of Chambers with its silvery tones is lost but classes must go on forever.

SHEARER HALL CLASS ROOMS BEING USED FOR STUDYING

The excuse that you have no quiet place to “bone” at night is no longer worth very much since two classrooms in Shearer Hall have been thrown open for this purpose. The recitation rooms of Doctors McConnell and Sentelle are being used at present. These rooms are warm, well-lighted and above all quiet, almost to the point of solitude, since only the studious few are using them. If your room is crowded and if gangs like to gather there to talk over subjects which are entirely foreign to books, these study halls are exactly the place to go.. The rooms will be much in demand during the next week as the exams are hanging over our heads and most of the students need to “put out” a little on almost everything. If your grades are suspended just above the passing mark by a narrow thread, and your roommates refuse to keep quiet for some reason or other, you had better tell his satanic majesty with his temptations to get behind thee and go to “boning” in the study hall. Else you might have to join the very select chorus of “wailers” and “teeth-gnashers.”

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY HAS GOOD PROGRAM AT OPENING

The daughter of the Philanthropic Literary Society has been named the Metrophilian, the name suggested by Dr. Harding. The motto and emblem of the new society have not yet been chosen. Owing to the absence of the president, R. P. Brown, the vice-president presided over the meeting. Two extemporaneous debates were held in place of the usual program. W. P. Kimsey and F. W. Smith debated the subject, “Resolved, That R. O. T. C. at Davidson should be compulsory throughout the entire college course.” The debate was unusually interesting, there being a good basis of argument for both sides. Dew and McCain discussed the subject, “Resolved, That the Davidson College boarding houses having 50 or more boarders should pay a tax of $15 per year to the city schools, and those having less than 50 boarders, a tax of $10.” The subject was discussed well by both sides. Following the debates, R. T. Price made an unusually good oration. A short and snappy business session followed the debates and plans were made for a mock trial on Thursday, the 10th.

Professor and Mrs. L. M. Currie spent Christmas in DeFuniak Springs, Fla., with Professor Currie’s parents. Mrs. Godwyn, of San Antonio, Tex., is a guest of her daughter, Mrs. Hearn.

THE COMMISSARY

There is one place, of all others, on the hill which we have all delighted to knock, and yet we have appreciated it too, that is the Commissary. It is being run this year by two seniors, under the direction of the Athletic Association, and it is their desire to serve us with maximum values at minimum prices. The Commissary is one of our best friends and no matter how much we knock it, we go right there when we need money. This is shown in the fact that the Commissary has loaned to organizations, the student body as a whole, and to us as individuals for football blankets and for railroad fare and such things. Then, too, all football equipment was sold to the men going out at cost. The Commissary wants no popularity or notoriety except in so far as the backing of the student body will make it popular. For it is our store, fellows, and our friend. Let’s show them that we appreciate it. There are to be two tailoring openings there this spring, one is this week, and let's, at least, go down, look over the line and when we see what we want, buy it. The Davidsonian carries a full-page advertisement for them this week. Read it and go and see for yourself. You will enjoy trading at the Commissary—they please you.

WALLS OF CHAMBERS RAZED. (Continued from page 1)

...mitory at least and there will be rooming capacity for well over a hundred students. While the new dormitory will not carry with it all the tradition and sentiment wrapped up in Chambers, it is hoped that the spirit of the old building will reside in the new and that its protecting wings will still watch over the welfare of Davidson College.

We Cater to the College Men

When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr.
East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

“It Wakes You Up”
In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest.
SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

Fall Sports
Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting.
Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson. You know them.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faul, Mgr.
Phone 902

CAMEL

ONE BRAND- ONE QUALITY- ONE SIZE PACKAGE

All our skill, facilities, and lifelong knowledge of the finest tobaccos are concentrated on this one cigarette—Into this ONE BRAND, we put the utmost quality. Nothing is too good for Camels. They are as good as it’s possible to make a cigarette. Camel QUALITY is always maintained at the same high, exclusive standard. You can always depend on the same mellow-mild refreshing smoothness—the taste and rich flavor of choicest tobaccos—and entire freedom from cigaretty aftertaste. And remember this! Camels come in one size package only—20 cigarettes—just the right size to make the greatest saving in production and packing. We put no useless frills on the Camel package. No “extra wrappers!” This saving goes straight into Camel Quality. That’s one reason why you can get Camel Quality at so moderate a price. Nothing just for show! Such things do not improve the smoke any more than premiums or coupons. And their added cost must go onto the price or come out of the quality. One thing, and only one, is responsible for Camels' great and growing popularity—that is CAMEL QUALITY.

R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO CO.
Winston-Salem, N.C.