Welcome, Columbia Students!

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE. DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 10, 1922. No. 19

Dr. Thornton Whaling Delivers Address on the Making of Wilson

Heredity, Education, Reaction to Environment, and Divine Dynamism, Presented as Influences Responsible for Wilson’s Character and Power.

Last Monday morning during the assembly period Dr. Thornton Whaling, formerly president of Columbia Theological Seminary, and at present the professor of theology at Louisville Theological Seminary of Louisville, Ky., delivered an extremely entertaining talk upon a subject that is of particular interest to Davidson students, “The Making of Woodrow Wilson.” Doctor Whaling, an old Davidson alumnus, was intimately associated with Mr. Wilson at Davidson and was one of his closest boyhood friends.

Doctor Whaling opened his talk by stating that the actual making of a man may be taken up from four separate and distinct viewpoints—first, his heredity; second, his education; third, his reaction to his environment; and, fourth, his divine superhuman dynamism. He then showed how these influences had worked in Woodrow Wilson. The Wilsons were of Scotch-Irish descent and as a family they seem to have inherited all the strong traits, physical, intellectual, and moral, that have characterized this sturdy and stalwart people. Woodrow’s father, Rev. Dr. Joseph Ruggles Wilson, was of pure Scotch-Irish descent, and was a strictly orthodox, Calvinistic Presbyterian minister, one of the most brilliant and scholarly of his day. His grandfather on his mother’s side, Rev. Thomas Woodrow, was a Scotch minister whose profession was in keeping with the traditions of his family, which family included many Covenanters.

The education of Woodrow Wilson was in line with his heredity. He delights in saying that his own father was his first and greatest teacher. According to his own account, he actually discovered, while attending his father’s prayer meetings, that he had a mind and could think. He was a student for a year at Davidson, an institution which embodied the essence of Scotch and Scotch-Irish culture which permeated his own life. He came to Davidson in 1873, at the age of 17 years, a singularly pure, clean, and moral youth, embodying all of the principles for which his father stood. He did not attempt to conceal the fact that he was not a candidate for the ministry. His speeches on the campus and his debates in the literary society revealed the extraordinary psychological adjustment of his mind. From the standpoint of the philosophy of adolescence there was no more important year in his life than the one which he spent at Davidson, said the speaker.

When asked by Doctor Whaling if he

Pat Crawford Captain and Guard on Wildcat Quintet

Fast Running Right Guard Is Playing a Great Game This Year.

Wildcat Five Defeats N. C. State in Thrilling Game by 23-22 Score

Davidson Leads in First Half—Score in Second Half Swings From Side to Side—Foul Throw Ties for State Just Before Whistle, Another Wins for Locals.

Around these figures—Davidson 23, N. C. State 22—is woven the story of Saturday’s game in which Coach Hengeveld's “Poison Squad” won its third consecutive game of the season by fighting its way to one of the most thrilling and exciting victories of the year. The large crowd went wild when the home team won. The game was a splendid exhibition of the hardwood game as it should be played and if possible was even more exciting than the slim margin of victory would indicate. The game ended with the teams in a deadlock, 22 to 22. After a short rest, Captain George sent the teams together for five minutes more of squabble. In this nightcap frame, each team had two chances from the foul line. Park, of State, missed both his tries, but Captain Crawford, of the Wildcats, dropped the winning point through the meshes.

Any attempt to name the stars of the local cage artists would be a mere enumeration of the five-man machine that refused to accept defeat at the hands of the visitors.

Salisbury “Y” Secretary Addresses Davidson Men

Christian Leadership Particularly Among Boys is Strongly Urged.

Mr. E. M. Hoffman, of Salisbury, was the speaker at the “Y” service last Sunday. He gave a stirring talk on the question as to why Christian leaders are so scarce. Preceding Mr. Hoffman's address, an impressive memorial service was held in honor of Ralph, the lately deceased friend and fellow student of Davidson men. Murdock McLeod, in a few well-chosen words, paid a beautiful tribute to him.

Lancaster, on Influence of Teachers

History Professor of Richmond University Delivers Strong Address.

Dealing with the teacher and his tremendous molding influence upon both individual and community life, Dr. S. C. Mitchell, Professor of History at Richmond University, addressed a large and attentive audience in Shearer Hall on the evening of Saturday, February 4th. After an introduction by Doctor Lingle, Doctor Mitchell first outlined the four periods of leadership of education in the South. Virginia led, then South Carolina, next Georgia, under

college graduates are not prepared to fill the places of leadership in boys’ work and other forms of constructive work. The speaker gave three reasons for this: First, as a rule, college men do not receive while in college a vital conception of discipleship, the devotion of a life to a great purpose, and are unable to distinguish between normal and nominal Christians; second, college men do not appreciate the real social significance of Christian work; third, they are unwilling to pay the price of leadership, in time, effort, and character.

The remedies for these shortcomings were given as follows: First, a warm conception of Christian discipleship must be felt, and men must learn less about the theory of Christ and more about Christ Himself. It is not what we believe, but whom we believe, that counts. Second, a constant vision of the social significance of directed work is required. Our duty to mankind is undone until the race, industrial, and social problems confronting the world have been tackled. The character and morals of the youth of America must be elevated by transforming their environment. Third, the price of leadership must be willingly paid. A leader cannot live an easy life. He must possess the moral excellence which he is trying to develop in others. Everybody has a certain degree of influence.A fine influence must be made a positive one. In closing, an earnest appeal for Christian leaders was made. Because college men represent the pick of youth, the world is looking to them to fill the places of Christian leadership, and unless they do it, no one will. It is their duty to go out into the world as witnesses of the success of the American Christian college.

Mr. Hoffman, having engaged in boys’ work in New York and in Chicago, and also having been a Y. M. C. A. secretary to China and Russia, was an authority on his subject. He is now serving as the Y. M. C. A. secretary at Salisbury. By infusing his pleasing personality into his speech, he gripped the hearts of his audience.

The music was well handled by Shepherd, McKeithen, and Nesbitt. Russell conducted the service.

(Continued on page 4)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Welcome home, basketeers. You did yourselves proud! Farmers, every man put every ounce of fight and work that he possessed into the game. The Wildcats again uncorked the well-conceived and deceptive type of passing that carries the ball down the floor at a dizzy clip. Few long shots were attempted, reliance being placed mainly on shots from close under the goal.

Speaking next on the choosing of a calling, Doctor Mitchell showed that it is a matter for each man to decide for himself in the inmost recesses of his heart. It is necessary for one to decide upon his future career at a comparatively early age in order that he may better prepare himself for it during his scholastic years. Moreover, he pointed out that it is of much more importance to decide on the spirit of your life work than on the calling itself, emphasizing the case of ideal Christian service versus mere success. A man may reach the highest realms of success in his worldly affairs, yet it will count for naught unless the thought of Christian service has permeated it.

Turning toward the profession of teaching, he showed how very fundamental it is, illustrating the wonderful molding effect which teachers can exert by the case of George Witt, who educated at William and Mary University four of the greatest men our nation has ever known: Jefferson, Marshall, Monroe, and Clay. He told of the great influence which Witt had on each of these lives and how through Marshall he gave to the world the principle that the court could set aside the decree of the legislative body.

Speaking of public offices, he showed that there are three classes of men who occupy them—the politician, the statesman, and finally and best of all, the publicist. He cited Woodrow Wilson as an example of the publicist and pointed out that any man in any profession could be a publicist, the type of man who...

(Continued on page 4)

WHAT'S DOING

Sunday, Feb. 12— 
9:00 p.m. 

Monday, Feb. 13— 
Wildcats vs. 
Band, 
C. E. Training Class, 1:00 p.m. 
Ministerial Band, 1:45 p.m. 
"Y" meeting, 6:15 p.m. 

Tuesday, Feb. 14— 
Sunrise Class, 9:30 p.m. 

Wednesday, Feb. 15— 
Basketball: 
Mission Study Classes, 9:00 p.m.

Finally, Doctor Mitchell showed that the greatest thing in the South is the growth of community life. The old state of society was based on three elements—the home, the church, and the state. To these are being added that of community life, toward which all progress is headed. Therefore, a man’s greatest chance of service to his country and especially to the South is as a high school principal in a small town where he can feel and aid the growth of community life in all the various problems which face it today.