THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922

CARLISLE MOORE, ’15, MARRIES MISS LAFAR

And once again, fate’s awful hand has turned the tables on a man. This time it was in the case
of Mr. Carlisle Clark Moore, '15, of McConnellsville. He has succumbed to the wiles of a charming young blonde, Miss
Margaret Louise LaFar, and from journalistic reports, we place not one particle of blame upon the said Mr. Moore for
his actions. Rather, we offer him the hearty congratulations of Davidson faculty, students, and alumni.

Upon his graduation from this college, the gentleman left many marks of his activities here. Always in the midst of
campus activities, exhibiting an ever-present supply of “pep” and as a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, his name will
remain on college records for many years. At the entrance of the United States into the World War, he volunteered
for service, was accepted, and served two years overseas. Returning to the States, he was attracted by the cotton business,
which was growing at that time, and as a planter and broker, he has attained creditable success in that business.

And while our prophecy was mere witticism, yet we do wish that fate might please us all by a festive
table where we might offer a toast to the glorious future of Mr. and Mrs. Moore.

Former Davidson Man Leads Kentucky Campaign

Doctor Gillespie, ’04, is the head of a commission to raise a million dollars for educational work at Centre College,
the Louisville Seminary, and other similar institutions. The undertaking is especially interesting because it is the first in which the
Northern and Southern branches have co-operated since their division in 1860. South Carolinians and Davidson men watch the progress of
the task with special interest, since it is under the direction of a commission, the chairman of which is the
Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D. D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Louisville. Doctor Gillespie graduated from Davidson and
then Columbia Seminary and before going to Kentucky was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Florence, S. C.

HERE AND THERE

Rev. M. R. Long, ex-’10, who recently resigned his marked successful work in art to enter the ministry, has been
called to the pastorate of the Front Street Church in Statesville.

John J. Adams, ’01, is a banker at Laurens, S. C.

Rev. W. B. Jennings, D. D., ’80, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Germantown, Penn., his address being
6012 Green Street.

Frank K. Spratt, ’04, is a wholesale grocer at Greenville, S. C.

W. A. Withers, ’83, is professor of chemistry and vice-president of State College at Raleigh, N. C.

T. B. Fraiser, ’81, of Sumter, S. C., is associate justice of the Supreme Court of South Carolina.

T. B. Finley, ’85, is judge of the 17th district, Supreme Court, North Carolina, Judge Finley’s home being at North
Wilkesboro.

T. R. McNeil, ’16, a chemist, is located at 1015 Walnut Avenue, Niagara Falls, New York.

At the Princeton-Yale football game on Saturday, November 18th, the following Davidson men held a reunion: W. M. Currie, '19;
E. H. Hamilton, '17; James Fowle and W. P. Cummins, ’21; Houston White, '21; J. M. Richards, '22; George M.
Robson, '19, and Hadley A. Hill, ’21.

W. J. Hamilton, ex-’13, is, as his friends here will readily realize, an active business man in Fayetteville, Ark.

Walter H. Vinson, ’89, is legal editor of the West Publishing Company at St. Paul, Minn.

Rev. A. W. White, ’80, now living at McBee, S. C., has retired from work on account of ill health,
after 37 years of active service in the ministry.

Rev. W. R. Minter, D. D., '92, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Austin, Texas.

Rev. and Mrs. Robert Murphy Williams announce the marriage of their daughter, Lewellyn, to Dr. John Daniel Robinson, '08, on
the evening of December 14th, at the Church of the Covenant, Greensboro, N. C.

Mrs. Shephard Nash announced the marriage of her daughter, Ann Maria, to Dr. James Ralph Dunn, ’15, on Wednesday, November
22nd, Sumter, S. C.

A. F. Fricker, '21, is located at 411 Marlborough, Boston, Mass.

Coit M. Robinson is located at Lowell, N.C.

Jim Pleasants, ex-’25, is attending Stetson University in Florida.

F. J. Wright is at the University of Pennsylvania this year.

P. H. McAlpine, ’22, has a position as teacher in the schools of Senora, N. C.

N. B. Pearah, ’21, who will be remembered at Davidson as N. B. Baba, is now attending Yale.

E. M. Alexander is a progressive cotton broker of Belzoni, Miss.

C. C. Garrett, '24, is taking a course at Clemson this fall.

W. J. Lake has also made marked success in the cotton business at Laurens, S. C.

W. D. Lawson has a splendid position in Greenwood, Miss.

W. C. Hale, ex-’25, is taking a business course in Knoxville, Tenn.

S. A. Wooten, '22, has taken up his residence in Ravensford, Va.

C. E. Hughes, ’22, is teaching in Fountain Inn, S. C.

Joe Rice, ex-'25, is among the students taking engineering at Cornell this year.

W. C. Crane, ’22,and Mrs. Crane are taking courses at Union Seminary. Dr. W. L. Howell, who attended Davidson as
a medical student, is practicing medicine at Ellerbe, N. C. Rev. William C. Rourke, ’16, is pastor of the Ellerbe
Springs (N. C.) Presbyterian Church. H. H. Caldwell, '03, who is registrar at Georgia Tech, informs his friends of the
birth of a son, H.H., Jr. J.D. Prothro, ex-’25, is attending Georgia Tech this year. Rev. H. W. DuBose, D.
D., of Louisburg, Va., has signified his acceptance of a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Spartanburg, S. C.
Mr. Voorhees Garth, a cotton broker, of Charlotte, was on the campus this week. Rev. Alden S. Anderson has recently
taken charge of the church at Badin, N. C. John Gaston, '21, is teaching English and Civics in Cramerton, N.
C., this year.

Davidson is perhaps as well represented at the University of North Carolina this year as has ever been the case.
Davidson men, almost all of them graduates of the old college, are endeavoring to uphold her name and prestige at
Chapel Hill in at least three departments of the University. Harry Sample, '21, and Paul Jamison, '22, are studying law,
while Joe Story, ’21, “Sec” Lacy, '22, and Elrod Boney, ’20, are among the 40 men accepted for the first-year
medicine class. Davidson has been so long and so well represented in this department that a specific corner in the
lecture room has been named by one professor “the Davidson corner.” It is rumored that Joe Story is showing the
way in this class to not a few of Carolina's own sons. C. K. Brown, ’21, is taking graduate work
in economics, in which department he is a teaching fellow.

FINALS IN TENNIS TOURNAMENT PLAYED

At last! The finals in the tennis tournament have been played. Harry Price stands out as winner of the challenge
round tournament. The semi-finals were played Friday, the 24th, resulting in the elimination of Bill Murray by the scores of
6-4, 7-9, 6-4, 6-3. The match abounded in thrills, and many beautiful plays were made. Price led off with the
first set, but the second went to Murray after a grueling contest. Harry came back strong in the next two
sets, winning easily. Price resorted to his usual back court game, winning most of his points on sideline placements. Murray
had a tendency to rush the net in the first two sets, but abandoned this policy in the last two
in order to combat Price's brand of tennis. Murray has a better serve than Price, but otherwise he was excelled
in the points of the game.

The four men winning out in the semi-finals were Price, Murray, Fraser, and Morris. These, together with Bradley, last year’s
champion, will participate in a tournament in the spring to decide which four will compose Davidson's team. At the same
time, another tournament will be in progress and any member of the second group is privileged to challenge the fifth
man of the first group. Should the challenger defeat the fifth man he will meet the fourth, and so on
until defeated. The tournament just completed does not decide who will be members of the team, but this will be
decided when the spring tournaments are completed. Davidson lost three men of her last year’s tennis team, but this will
not materially affect Davidson’s chances of a state championship team. The material this year is exceptionally good, and chances for
first honors are bright. Davidson is extremely honored in having Hugh Bradley as president of the North Carolina Tennis Association.
He announces that the State meet would probably be held at Durham, though the date has not been set.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

If You Have Money, We Want It.
If You Need Money, We Have It.
W. Z. BRADFORD
Morris Plan Bank
Winston-Salem, N. C.

Fire Insurance, Life Insurance, Accident and Health Insurance, we write these lines and they cost money which is supplied through
your bank account. Did you ever think about making that account with which you pay all bills, secure against FORGERY?
McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

Best baking results can only be obtained from the best flour. NOSOCA (Plain) and IREDELL (Self-Rising) are supreme in quality,
uniformly perfect the year round. Sold in Davidson by Knox & Barnette Company.
STATESVILLE FLOUR MILLS COMPANY
STATESVILLE, N. C.

What Are Your Banking Needs? Do you need investment advice? Are you interested to learn how we can serve you
and your family in matters of trust? Would you like to open a savings or a checking account? Are you
thinking of insurance? The Wachovia, Its Staff, and Its Officers Are at Your Service.
The WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.
NORTH CAROLINA
Raleigh
Winston-Salem
Salisbury
Asheville
High Point

Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
On the Square
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
