THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

What's Doing

THURSDAY
7:15 p.m.—Evangelistic services.
7:30 p.m.—Phi Society.
7:30 p.m.—Eu Society.

FRIDAY
3:30 p.m.—Football at Sprunt Field—Wildcat Fresh vs. Oak Ridge.
7:15 p.m.—Evangelistic services.
8:30 p.m.—Sophs vs. Fresh—basketball.

SATURDAY
3:30 p.m.—Football—Wildcats vs. N. C. State at Raleigh.
7:30 p.m.—Romeo and Juliet by Clifford Devereux Company at Shearer Hall.

SUNDAY
10 a.m.—Volunteer Band meeting.
1 p.m.—C. E. Training class meeting.
1:45 p.m.—Ministerial Band meeting.
3:30 p.m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper Y service—speaker, Dr. W. L. Lingle.

MONDAY
7:15 p.m.—Metrophilian Fresh Society.

TUESDAY
7:15 p.m.—Pandeinic Society.
7:15 p.m.—Metrophilian Society.
9:00 p.m.—Bible Class leaders.
8:00 p.m.—Juniors vs. Fresh—basketball.

WEDNESDAY
9:00 p.m.—Bible classes.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

After Every Meal

TOWN NEWS
Mrs. Willard and son, of Hickory, were the guests of Mrs. Hood last week.
Miss Lucy Shewmaker, who has been ill for about a week, is now convalescing to the delight of her many friends.
Mrs. Paisley visited in Statesville last week.
Mrs. A. Currie is numbered among the sick list this week.
Miss Maggie McDowell, of Morganton, N. C., and Miss Newland, of Charlotte, are visiting the Misses Young.
Miss Mamie Withers is visiting her sister, Mrs. Patterson, in Alabama.
Miss Jean Martin visited her sister, Miss Eloise Martin, at Converse College, last week.
Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Foreman spent the weekend at Charlotte with Mr. and Mrs. Charles Foreman.
Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies spent the weekend in Charlotte.
Doctor Hood, Doctor Harding, Mr. Jackson, Doctor Arbuckle, Doctor Shewmake, Mr. Currie, and Doctor Moore McConnell occupied Presbyterian pulpits in Charlotte Sunday in the interest of the Davidson campaign.
The Spinsters Club held its weekly meeting with Miss Margaret Adams last week.
Doctor Lingle, Doctor Martin, and Doctor Richards attended the Synod at Lincolnton last week.
Mrs. Olin White spent last week with her daughter, Miss Nina Holt, at Peace Institute in Raleigh.
Doctor Richards occupied the pulpit at First Presbyterian Church in Statesville last Sunday, during the illness of Doctor Raynal of that place.
The Thelemites Book Club met Friday afternoon with Mrs. J. M. McConnell and a very interesting program was enjoyed. Mrs. Erwin read a paper on the old Greenwich Village of New York City.

HEATING PLANT WILL SERVE NEEDS OF COLLEGE
“When will there be a hot time in the old town?” is a question which may be heard in either of the new dormitories. Although the old heating plant is making a valiant effort to still the chattering teeth in the new buildings with steam carried through exposed pipes laid on trestles above ground, the ungrateful men persist in remaining cold. In the words of Gray’s Elegy, these pipes “waste their sweetness on the desert air,” so that no one gets any comfort from them, except perhaps in the thought that there is heat somewhere in the world. It is hoped that the new heating plant, which is being installed by the Grinnell Company, will be furnishing heat to all buildings on the campus by Christmas. The work will be finished, according to the statement of the contractors. Already the building which is to house the plant, including the 90-foot brick smokestack, stands complete. Two boilers, each with a capacity of 150 horsepower, are now being installed. Some idea of their size may be obtained from the fact that 46,600 bricks will be required to wall them up. Space is provided for two more boilers of equal size to heat the church, the new Chambers building, and any other buildings that may be built. Six thousand, one hundred and sixteen feet, or a little more than a mile, of pipe will be laid in the ditches that have been dug across the campus. Three carloads of pipe insulator will be used in covering this pipe, so that there will be no danger of losing the heat before it reaches the radiators.

Trinity, S. C., Virginia and V. M. I. on Schedule
Four wrestling matches this year, as compared with one last year, is quite a contrast and indicates that wrestling at Davidson is becoming more popular. With few exceptions, four matches are the maximum number for a college, and apparently Davidson is lining up in the front rank. The matches scheduled will be difficult. All of them will be staged in foreign territory except the one with South Carolina. The final contract for the appearance of the South Carolina team here has not yet been signed, but Davidson has been assured of a match with this college. Trinity will be the first opponent. In last year’s contest, Trinity won over Davidson by the close margin of two points. With Virginia Military Institute and the University of Virginia as the other opponents, Davidson will have her hands full. These two colleges are reputed to have some of the best wrestlers of the South, with V. M. I. conceded a slight edge. When Davidson’s representatives meet these two teams, they will find formidable combatants. Davidson is indeed fortunate for she only lost one of her wrestlers last year, and with splendid material in sight, is expected to have a winning team this year. The matches are as follows:
February 23—Trinity at Durham.
March 3—South Carolina at Davidson.9—University of Virginia at Charlottesville, Va. 
March 10—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

D. “Y” SECRETARY ADDRESSES 
(Continued from Page One)

the same class with the priests, and guilty of the sin of envy. “Money-making is a good thing when done in the right manner; but only thieves and Judases are money-lovers!” In this connection the speaker cited Judas’ betrayal of Christ for 20 pieces of silver. “When we love money more than we love our God, then we are as Judas, money-lovers.”

In discussing the sin of slander, the speaker cited the Bible incident of the mob accusing Jesus before Pilate. This he applied to campus life. By telling an untruth man builds a wall between himself and God. “Pilate,” continued the speaker, “was a crook. He got his office by fraud, and was made a slave to the people in order to protect himself. It was his servility that caused the shedding of the innocent blood of Christ.

“When Pilate did his first unprincipled deed, he little expected that deed to lead to the shedding of innocent blood. Neither do we, when we do our first wrong deed, expect to become crooks. If we become slaves to someone to protect ourselves, we place ourselves in the same class with Pilate. Pilate was a coward, and rather than right the wrong he had done, he crucified Christ.

“But there is a redeeming feature to all this, and that feature is the redemption offered by Christ.” The speaker brought home to his hearers the fact that gambling took place at the feet of Jesus on the cross. “Pilate was afraid to do right, as this would cause him to lose his place of importance. But we have nothing to keep us from doing that which is right. If you are ashamed to stop where you are when the bell rings for prayer each night, you too are ashamed of your religion, and you are as Pilate, a coward. But for this sin there is a redeeming feature, the blood of Christ, shed for the remission of our sins.

State i Bur dlawe ae clip- ee ee * ‘ ~ ped—show ‘em! Esquiella—Now may I go out this evening? Esquima—Yes dear, but come in in a wife’? Prof. Goldiere—“Yes, Esposa. That month or two, you know you’ve been out too late these last few nights. Mitchell to Prof. Goldiere—“Doctor have we had the word for ‘your 99 isn’t her name though.”

flour. Best baking results can only be obtained from the best NOSOCA (Plain) and IREDELL (Self-Rising) are supreme in quality, uniformly perfect the year round. Sold in Davidson by Knox & Barnette Company STATESVILLE FLOUR MILLS COMPANY STATESVILLE, N. C.

118 POINTS AMASSED BY DAVIDSON HIGH

On Sprunt Field last Saturday in a contest which resembled a track meet more than a football game, the Davidson High School Wildkittens defeated Barium Springs Orphanage, 118-0. This is probably the largest score ever amassed by any team playing on Sprunt Field, and showed the real superiority of the Wildkittens over their lighter and less experienced opponents. Time and again the Davidson backs would sweep around the Barium Springs ends for long gains. Attempts through the line usually netted 10 or 15 yards, while Davidson’s end men snatched many a pass for long gains. The Barium Springs outfit showed a woeful lack of experience. Although outweighed 10 pounds to the man, and literally run over by the Davidson team, they showed no desire to quit and took time out only once during the contest.

The whole Davidson team played up-to-the-minute football, but in the line J. MacConnell and Johnson starred. Arbuckle and R. MacConnell at the end positions accounted for three of the 18 touchdowns made by Davidson, they also took five passes across for points after touchdowns. The whole Davidson backfield performed in clock-like style. Dick Grey accounted for five of the Davidson touchdowns, Black was next with three, while Bohannon and Thompson each crossed the line twice. Probably the feature run of the game was made by Grey when he ran a Barium Springs punt back 70 yards for a touchdown in the last quarter.

For Barium Springs Captain Carticker played the best football, while Carr made some nice gains on fake plays.

It has been rumored that—
Arbuthnot has refused the offer of Thompson’s boarding house to eat at the “trough” next month;
That Speedy Carr has ordered a comb from Sears Roebuck;
That Tom Summers is having larger collars and hats made to order;
That Watt McCoin will major in R.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

That P. C. Henderson was left out of the group pictures Monday morning as he left his Fresh cap in his room.

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS

URALGIA or headache—rub forehead, temples and back of neck with Vicks. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

PIANOS Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT

“A Gentleman from Mississippi” ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE CLAUDE LEE, Manager

THURSDAY, 2nd FRIDAY, 3rd SATURDAY, 4th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA G. Shulze, Director Overture—"Rhinefels," Gruenwald PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY ACADEMY ORCHESTRA Selection—"Oh, My Dear” Fox-Trot—"Tricks”

THE LERAYS Offer An Artistic Aerial Novelty Entitled “At the Golf Club” E. Carol—DORE—Louise Violini Piani “Music That Hath Charms”

LEWIS & GORDON Present a Satirical Comedy in One Act, Entitled “Byes” By Al Lewis and Solly Ward Characters: Husband, Chas. Ward; Wife, Signe Larsen; Florette, Mary Stevens. Scenes (1) Somewhere on Broadway; (2) The Home.

GILBERT WELLS MARIE CAVANAUGH With Bud L. Cooper and Richard Webb in “Visions”

Make Your Seat Reservations Now