4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 P.M. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
H. H. SMITH.................Editor-in-Chief
R. S. BERING.................Forum Editor
R. A. LOVE....................First Managing Editor
W. M. HESTON.............Second Managing Editor
D. OGDEN.....................Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. R. ELLIS....................Athletic Editor
E. H. GRIFFIN...............Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD...........Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY..........Assistant Manager
Assistants: COX, L. P. MILTON, W. E. LINDLEY, J. A. SHIT, C. F. McLEOD, W. C.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. E. COOPER...............Business Manager
L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, E. WEEKS, and W. H. ORR........Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN.....Office Assistant
W. BORGH.....................Circulation Manager
S. C. FAIN.....................Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants: R. B. LILES, K. C. MOOMAW, J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
W. P. G. GALLOWAY, W. F. PRICE, H. B. SMITH, R. H. LAKE, J. G. SHARPE, W. H. BROWN, C. M. McILWAINE, C. M. O’NEILL, A. C. CALHOUN, M. MAUZY, G. W. WILDMAN, A. C. EARNEST, R. OFFETT, A. WILLIAMS, J. M. FEWELL, ED. MOORE, W. I.

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

The old Wildcat fighting spirit was certainly in evidence on Grant Field in Atlanta last Saturday. The whole student body wants to show that spirit and make Wake Forest the next victim. Everything points to the V. P. I. game on Home-Coming Day as a classic which no student or alumnus can fail to see.

On last Saturday we had opened for our use the parlors of East and West dormitories. These had been most tastefully decorated in red and black for Davidson, pine for the Old North State, and golden rod for the nation. They looked fine, fellows. Why can’t we take pride in keeping these rooms that are being opened for us? East and West might rival each other in having theirs stay neat and attractive. Anyway, we can support Mrs. Smith in all that she wants us to do, and be careful and thoughtful in our use of them.

HOME-COMING DAY

For quite a number of years, institutions in this State and all over the country have made a practice of selecting some suitable date on which all of their alumni come back to visit their Alma Mater. Davidson has not followed this practice, but since the results in other universities and colleges are evident, October 21 has been set aside as Home-Coming Day for the Davidson alumni. To advertise this fact and get more of our alumni interested, we are making this issue of The Davidsonian the Home-Coming issue. We want every one of you alumni who live in reach to start planning at once to be here on the 21st. If the event this year is a success, next year it can be looked forward to with greater enthusiasm, and larger plans can be made.

NOISE NEEDLESS AND HARMFUL

Ever since Davidson opened this fall, there has seemed to be a spirit of restlessness upon the campus. This has manifested itself in a number of ways such as men becoming dissatisfied, doing much less studying than they should, moving from one room to another, some even leaving school, and especially in one manner that may be at the bottom of many of the others, one which certainly is very unnecessary and very distracting. This is the making of excessive noise which is done at night as well as during the day in all the dormitories.

Many of us fail to realize the fact that here so many men are living together in such a small amount of space. In both East and West, there are over 100 students, each wanting to do many things quite different from the things the men next door want to do. It is clearly evident that everybody can’t be satisfied and someone is going to have to sacrifice his desires where they conflict. Beyond doubt, there are no two impulses that can be more impossible of accomplishment at the same time than studying and making all variety of noises.

Perhaps we don’t always keep the fact in mind, but our main purpose in coming here was to study. That is what our folks back home are expecting us to do. What is going to be their attitude if we attribute poor marks to inability to do our work because of too much noise? Then particularly do we older men owe it to the newcomers this year to give them every encouragement toward making this year a success. When many find it necessary to move in order to study, we can see that there is room for improvement. Realizing then what such thoughtlessness is leading to, we all ought to try to do better. The men who are musically inclined can find plenty of time in the day to keep in practice, and by so doing can leave the night a little quieter. Indulging in various other forms of making noise is no doubt thoughtless, since there is no need nor excuse for it.

Well Worth Considering

It may seem to some of us fellows that there is continually being brought up some new thing of a religious nature to which we are asked to give of our time and interest. So may seem the call this fall to attend Wednesday night Bible classes on each floor. It seems to me, and I am not one who likes to be loaded down with a superabundance of good things, that right here is a matter we might consider a little before taking the stand that it is another of the good things of too little or comparative value to engage our attention. These classes are not to take up more than 30 minutes and probably even less. The time that should be put on preparation will vary as the time we can find or the time we will make. It is not to be any deep-seated theological course of study nor one dealing with unreal conditions. On the other hand, from what I can gather from its promoters, it is to be more of a confidential discussion of anything we care to discuss relative to our lives at Davidson. The course to be undertaken covers 10 weeks. The pamphlet is called “Facing Student Problems” and a hasty glancing over it will reveal its value through its practicability. The writer is a recent Davidson graduate and we may reasonably conclude that his studies are peculiarly adapted to conditions here. Certainly he could not have ignored problems that must have confronted him while he was in college at Davidson. As one class leader put it, the classes “are not to be any sanctimonious affair, but just a group where any college problem of any nature is just what we want to bring out.” It seems likely that the main purpose and value of the course will lie in the original, specific, vital problems brought out by the group members. Fellows, we all knowof things that don’t suit us and of problems, large and small, that we can't seem to make heads or tails out of. Let’s give this Bible course a try-out—a little time and thought once a week—and see what it may mean to us. ONE INTERESTED.

WILDCATS ARE GIVEN A ROUSING SEND-OFF

The spirit of the Wildcat, long in leash, sprang into full fury on the night of September the 6th, the night before 22 of these same Wildcats abandoned their lair for the purpose of burying their claws in the Yellow Jackets of Georgia. The men of Davidson gave their team a send-off such as was well deserved by the men who were going to Atlanta to give their all for their Alma Mater. It was done in this manner. Cars were waiting at 7 o’clock to take the men to Charlotte, and at this hour 540 strong, the students were assembled. In a short while, there issued from this throng a long line in lock-step, namely, a shirt-tail parade. Up and down the street it went. If the Yellow Jackets heard “O, Davidson!” and the yells which followed, they must have crawled back into their holes with quaking hearts. The leader, Okey Allison, had the old pep and much credit is due to him. And now on all sides was heard, “Go get 'em Sam;” “Bettin’ on you, Regen, boy;” “Tear ’em loose, Spratt.” Amid these and many like yells, the Wildcats started off to earn the glory which they so richly deserve.

If a man empties his purse into his head, no one can take it from him.—Benjamin Franklin.

Answered Prayer

“He asked for strength that he might achieve; he was made weak that he might obey.
“He asked for all things that he might enjoy life; he was given life that he might enjoy all things.
“He asked for riches that he might be happy; he was given poverty, that he might be wise.
“He asked for power that he might have the praise of men; he was given weakness that he might feel the need of God.
“He asked for health, that he might do greater things; he was given infirmity that he might do better things.
“He has received nothing that he asked for; all that he hoped for. His prayer was answered.”—Selected.

They sat up among the sugar plums. The moon shone softly. Suddenly he broke the silence. “Hey what’s to prevent my kissing you?” “Why my goodness,” she exclaimed. But it didn’t.

’26—“John was horribly mangled in the mud-rolling contest.”
Co-ed—“Oh the poor dear, how did it happen?”
’26—“Well, y’see he had on his new all-wool union suit, and when he got wet it shrunk so fast that he was crushed before he could get it off.”—The Student Life.

He—“Going to have dinner anywhere tonight?”
She (eagerly)—“No, not that I know of.”
He—“Gee! You'll be awfully hungry by morning.”

And now we have the real definition of modern dancing. Dancing today is “the maximum of motion in the minimum of space.”

In cold weather it’s a good idea to serve potatoes with their jackets on.

Which professor was it that just before he went to class the other morning threw his wife out the back door and kissed the garbage?

Love never dies in a woman’s heart. There is always a spark left for some fellow to fan into a flame.

We wonder if Wrigley’s pet phrase is—“By gum!”

Here lies the bootlegger, Josephus McNaught,
Who sold many a bottle and never got caught.
He tasted his samples, his head hit the pave,
And now the corn flowers grow wild on his grave.—The Agonitic.

Mr. Nutt—I think your daughter recited remarkably well.
Landlady—Yes. All she needs is a short course in electrocution to finish her off, you might say.—Kansas City Star.

Customer—Kin I get a book here about shootin’ craps?
Clerk—Here’s a work on osteopathy, deals with the manipulation of the bones.—Boston Transcript.

PLAY BY PLAY DETAILS (Continued from Page One)

The crowd went wild. The diagram see-sawed back and forth and time passed by. A quarter was gone: and no more scores had been made. Almost to the goal line again came Tech, then the ball started back. Back and forth the ball was punted while the student body yelled. Suddenly with a crumpled dispatch in his hand, Walthall leaped to his feet. The game was ended with the score 19 to 0. The student body had yelled before, now they went wild. Hats sailed into the air and arms waved wildly. Above the din and pandemonium could be distinguished the shouts of “Fresh Parade.” Into town the jubilee moved and the shirt-tail parade began. It was fully a hundred yards long as it filed across the campus toward the athletic field. Around and around the football field the parade proceeded, yelling for Davidson and the way they held down the score. A local football game was in progress between Davidson High and Mooresville High. Cheers rang out for the Wildkittens, and the high school girls sang their songs. The parade stopped at the southern end of the athletic field and Freshmen and upper classmen joined in the chorus of “Oh Davidson.” The celebration was ended and the happy Davidson College student body turned their steps toward the boarding houses.

FIRE! FIRE!

Shhh! A rumor has been spread abroad in the camp. A wild rumor indeed. It was started by a wild dreamer of dreams residing in the historic domicile of Rumple. He dreamed of a conference with Dr. Frazer, erstwhile President of Queens College. After heated argument and much logical proof on the part of the dreamer, said the President was convinced and gave consent to the proposition of a special train for the girls to visit Davidson on Home-Coming Day, October 21. But just as everything was looking bright for the dreamer some horrid creature entered the room. The dreamer awoke in the middle of the floor with his bed resting on top of him, to find that all his fine argument had been only a dream. That's what started the rumor, though, and now it’s up to the 540 students of Davidson to use persuasive argument with all the powers that be in an effort to get those Queen girls up here on October 21st. Say, wouldn't it be great to meet a train-load of FIRE? Oh boy, that would be a grand and glorious feelin’. If only the man who on Davidson Day in the Queen City made the remark that he wished he were president of Queens College, that he would allow Davidson free access to it at all times, were really president the difficulty would be solved. Dr. Frazer has proven himself to be a reasonable man heretofore, however, and it is believed that he will sanction a request to allow his beauties to come and beautify the campus for just one short day. Just think what it would mean to the student body, and then think how much harder the boys on the team would fight with such an audience of beauty to spur them on. Come on up Queens, and give Davidson the once over.

DIRECTORY CORRECTIONS

Through an error the following men were listed as freshmen on the directory published last week:
Choi, Dr. Y. O., special.
Nace, A. F., ’24.
Regen, E. M., ’24.
Rowe, A. T. Jr., ’25.
Green, J. L. Jr., ’25.
McMillan, R. H., ’24.