JUNIOR SPEAKING ISSUE LAST ISSUE OF THE OLD STAFF

THE DAVIDSONIAN: FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 31, 1922. No. 26.

Juniors Stage Greatest Speaking Occasion in History of College
Plays, Orations, Baseball, Carnival, Fraternity Reception, and Many Fair Visitors Mark Greatest Social Event of Spring Semester

Junior Speaking this year was the most brilliant affair of its kind ever held at Davidson. The class of ’23 presented a program of interest and entertainment, lasting from the Dramatic Club performance Friday night through the closing events Sunday. One hundred and fifty guests enjoyed the hospitality of the Juniors.

Dramatic Club Plays.
On Friday night of Junior Speaking, three plays were presented, namely, “Miss Civilization,” by Richard Harding Davis; “The Boor,” by Anton Tchekhoff; and “The Zone Police,” by Richard Harding Davis. They were put on by the Freshman, Sophomore, and Senior classes, respectively.

In “Miss Civilization,” Jack Austin played the role of a little girl who was devoted to her sick mother. The girl was the heroine of the story, entertaining three burglars until the police could reach the scene. Dan Mallory, Simiril Bryant, and William Byrd played the parts of the burglars and James Patton, the chief of police.

The second play, “The Boor,” was well presented and as well received. Clark Fain played the part of a gruff and rude tax collector who was trying to collect a debt from a widow, who refused to carry on business transactions in respect for her dead husband. For a long time neither party would give in, but finally the collector made love to the plaintive widow, whose part was played in great style by William Galloway. Randolph Jones played the role of Luka, the servant of the widow, and showed rare adaptability.

The concluding play, “The Zone Police,” was the story of a major in the U. S. Army who had become addicted to strong drink and was disgracing his country and himself, and how he was given another chance to make good. The major’s part was acted by Ray Doubles. Roderick Shaw played the role of lieutenant and Johnnie Curry, a sergeant. Robert Holmes, as a private, was instrumental in bringing the degraded major to his senses.

Fraternity Reception.
After the theatrical performance Friday night the student body, faculty, and their friends were entertained at a General Fraternity Reception. All of the halls kept open doors and every visitor was welcomed. Refreshments were served in the home of each organization and all the guests were received with the greatest hospitality. This was the first fraternity reception.

(Continued on page 2)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS
It was fine, Juniors! We are looking at you, new staff!

Echoes Given at the “Y” of Volunteer Convention
Talks by Misses Stamper and Teachey and Solos by Misses Murphey and Moore Feature.

Short talks by Misses Ruth Teachey and Mabel Stamper, of N. C. C. W., and vocal solos by Miss Marion Moore, of Mitchell, and Miss Murphey, of Queens, in addition to talks by Rolston Bitzer and Ed Cunningham made the “Y” service last Sunday one of the most interesting of the year. The general theme of the four speeches was the Message of the Volunteer Convention, which was recently held at N. C. C. W. The part taken by the young ladies in the program made the service fit in well with the general plan of Junior Speaking.

The first speaker, Rolston Bitzer, showed that the Volunteer movement is the greatest existing force now striving for the evangelization of the world. In telling of the rapid growth of the Volunteer Movement, which was organized 33 years ago, he stated that each national convention increases approximately 50 per cent in attendance. The movement is now world-wide and embraces large hosts, who are arming themselves for the spiritual conquest of the world in this generation.

Miss Mabel Stamper, former vice-president of North Carolina Volunteer Union spoke on possessing a really intimate, personal friendship with Christ. The three necessary steps for attaining this friendship with Him were by constant, earnest prayer, by an unshaken belief, and by a true willingness to surrender everything for Christ.

Miss Ruth Teachey, the Y. W. C. A. president of N. C. C. W., asked for an open-minded search for God's plan of life. She presented three challenges, for strong Christian living, for a world view of its needs, and for aggressive action on our part. The world today is looking for Christians more than for Christianity. The 19th century made the world a Neighborhood. It is the duty of the 20th century to make it a Brotherhood. We must think in terms of Humanity.

The last speaker, Ed Cunningham, gave a glimpse of the good times had at the conference. In discussing just what the greatest need of the world is today, he stated that it is Christ and urged that we truly make Him real to the world.

Mrs. Thos. W. Lingle, who has been visiting her mother in St. Louis, Mo., reports that her mother has improved from her recent illness. Mrs. Lingle is now on her way back to North Carolina. Before coming to Davidson she will visit her son in Chattanooga, Tenn., and will attend the North Carolina Conference for Social Service, of which she is secretary and treasurer.

Four Juniors Chosen For Commencement Orations
Gamble, Johnston, Ogden, and Sorrells, With Kimsey

Davidsonian Staff Named For Coming Year’s Work
Will Begin Their Work With Next Issue of the Paper.

This is the last issue of the Davidsonian to be put out by the old staff. The staff which has been recently elected will edit the Davidsonian for the first time next week. The following men have been appointed to the staff for the year 1922-'23, by Editor-Elect R. F. Davidson: L. D. Elkins, Managing Editor; J. S. Gracy, Assignment Editor; W. M. Heston, Assistant Managing Editor; E. H. Mauze, Athletic Editor; C. F. Wildman, Alumni Editor; H. H. Smith, Forum Editor; R. C. Aiken, Campus Editor; D. H. Ogden, Y. M. C. A. Editor; W. T. Elliott, Social Editor; H. M. Morris, Literary Editor; Warren Cox, Exchange Editor; W. J. Cooper, Business Manager, Circulation Manager were recently elected. These men have all proven ability as members of the Y. W. C. A. Club and as members of the present staff and plans are being laid to make the coming year the most successful year in the Davidsonian’s history.as Alternate, Selected by Judges. Sixteen Juniors made the green rafters echo back their eloquence in Shearer Hall last Saturday, both morning and night. But the judges were only permitted to choose four orators with a fifth as alternate, and the job was not an easy one. Those chosen were: as the alternate. Ogden spoke on “The Great Anglo-American Fellowship,” showing various reasons why it existed. He called attention to the fact that America was the daughter country, and from this point of view entirely the friendship existed. (Continued on page 4)

The Red and Black nine found itself New Physics Building Was Opened Last Week Class Room and Laboratory Space Materially Increased by New Temporary Structure.

The new Physics building, directly east of the season and took two in a row, clearly outclassing their opponents. The Wildcats gave trials to five inexperienced Wildcat twirlers. Split With Oak Ridge and Win Over Erskine Open 1922 Baseball Season Wildcat Hurling Prospects Show Up Well--Every Man on Team Getting His Batting Eye, and Ball is Being Pounded Out to All Corners of Lot after the disaster of the first game of the season. The ten-inning fray which followed was a pitchers’ battle between Boushee, of Davidson, and Shields, of Oak Ridge, each yielding six hits, but Shields getting better support and the game, 2-1. Not an earned run was made and better fielding secured the margin of victory. The Wildcats scored first in the fourth frame, when with two down, McMillan was safe on Shields’ error. Vance then stole second and Pritchett came across with a bingle over the keystone sack, McMillan crossing the plate for the Wildcats’ lone tally. The Oak Ridge lads tied the count in the sixth when Boushee hit Clayton, who stole second and came home on Pritchett’s wild throw to first. Davidson's last chance to score came in the ninth when with two men out McMillan singled to center and stole second, Pritchett knocked a hot one to Lowe who fielded it cleanly, sending the game into extra innings. In the tenth McGill hit to center and was safe at second on Pritchett’s error. Clayton then knocked a sizzling double down the right field foul line, driving in McGill with the winning run. Box score:

Davidson: r po a e
Shields, p .......... 2 0 1 0 0
DeWitt, 1b .......... 4 0 1 4 0 0
McMillan, ss ........ 4 0 0 4 0 0
Crawford, 3b ........ 4 0 1 0 1 0
McMillan, cf ........ 4 1 1 0 0 0
Vance, 2b ........... 4 0 0 0 0 0
Pritchett, c ......... 4 0 1 0 0 0
McGill, lf ........... 4 0 0 0 0 0
Clayton, rf .......... 4 0 1 0 0 0
Totals ............. 30 1 6 30 11 3

Oak Ridge: ab r h po a e
Clayton, ss .......... 5 1 1 2 0 0
Blow, 3b ............ 5 0 2 0 0 0
Goin, 1b ............ 5 0 0 0 0 0
McGill, cf ........... 4 0 1 0 0 0
Sizemore, lf ......... 4 0 1 0 0 0
Atitry, rf ........... 4 0 0 0 0 0
King, 2b ............ 4 0 1 0 0 0
(Continued on page 2)

WHAT’S DOING.

Thursday—7:15 p.m., Phi and Eu. Societies.
9:00 p.m., Metrophilian and Pandemnic Societies.
Saturday—Baseball: Winston-Salem, Trinity vs. Wildcats.
7:15 p.m., Movies.
Sunday—10 a.m., Volunteer Band.
1:00 p.m., C. E. Training Class.
1:30 p.m., Ministerial Band.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., Y Service.
Monday—3:30 p.m., Baseball, Sprunt Field: Wake Forest vs. Wildcats.
9:30, Mission Study Class Leaders.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Bible Classes.

YOU PUT THINGS OVER, JUNIORS!