4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 10, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

J. M. RICHARDS............. Editor-in-Chief
J. P. PRICE................ Managing Editor
A. GAMBLE, JR............. Managing Editor
J. S. CURRY................ News Editor
J. C. BAILEY, JR............ Y. M. C. A. Editor
K. F. DAVIDSON............. Assignment Editor
R. SPRUNT................. Society Editor
J. C. SUMMEY.............. Alumni Editor
J. H. McKEITHEN........... Athletic Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, W. GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. H. BROWN, C. V.
HESS, W. M. MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P. JONES, J.
SMITH, R. H. CALHOUN, M. P.
JONES, R. K. TULLER, C. D.
COX, W. M. KNOX, W. I.
WALTHALL, D. B. ELKINS, L. D.
LACY, T. A. WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T. MAUZE, E. H.
WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
T. GRAHAM OLIVER........ Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK, and W. S. SHEPARD... Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
S. C. FAIN................ Circulation Manager
P. C. HENDERSON.......... Asst. Circulation Manager
WATT McCAIN............. Asst. Circulation Manager
R. L. PRICE............... Asst. Circulation Manager

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Help the Greater Davidson Club to the achievement of its purpose, A Better Davidson than ever next year.

With the temporary physics laboratory nearing completion and the contract for our new dormitory already let, building operations are on
a decided boom at Davidson.

It is seldom that the student body has the privilege of hearing two such lecturers as Doctor Mitchell and Doctor
Whaling within two days, and the addresses of both speakers were greatly enjoyed.

RALPH LANCASTER.

Death is always a mysterious and fearsome thing to the human mind, and from the time when that grim reaper
first began his depredations among the children of men until the present day, his passing has never failed to leave
sorrow and desolation in its wake. Rich and poor, young and old, weak and strong, are all alike subject to
his attack, and there is no immunity from his ravages. All must suffer alike, and there is no home or
community but has felt the presence of this awful intruder. This week it has fallen to the lot of Davidson
College to be visited, and the blow that has descended upon us is indeed a heavy one.

The dread destroyer is never more terrible than when he strikes down a young man, just ready to enter upon
his life work, with all the hopes and aspirations of youth still strong within him. Such a one was Ralph
Lancaster. Quiet and unassuming, yet friendly in his attitude toward all, he went his way upon the campus molesting no
one. His readiness to lend a helping hand to those who needed it was one of his most marked characteristics,
and he was held in the highest regard by those who had come to know him during his short stay
on the campus. To know this man, who in the words of one of the Seniors might have been taken
as a model Freshman, was to like him, and the news of his death from heart failure on last Friday
night came as a severe shock not only to his intimate associates but to the entire student body. Seldom has
the Davidson campus been so saddened as by this loss of one of her choice young men. Our deepest sympathy
goes out to the family of the young man in their sorrow and bereavement, and we share in their grief.
No words can serve to lessen our common loss, and we can only take comfort with them in the belief
that Ralph is now safe with the Saviour whom he had confessed.

A COWARDLY ACTION.

Davidson College has always been proud of the splendid young men who make up her student bodies, and of the
high standards of conduct which they have striven to maintain, and perhaps she is justly so today. Certainly she has
much of which to be proud. Occasionally, however, something occurs which makes us wonder whether after all she has not
equally as much of which she should be ashamed. Such an incident was the one which occurred in chapel last
Saturday morning. A few of the students have long been in the custom of scraping their feet when a rather
long or unpleasant notice was given from the platform. On this occasion, however, the scraping was so general that the
speaker actually could not be heard by the majority of the students who were trying to pay attention. Such conduct
is in no way in accord with the spirit of Davidson traditions and students. It is not only ungentlemanly and
unsportsmanlike, but in the last analysis is absolutely cowardly. How many of the men who scrape so loudly in chapel
would do so if the professor whom they annoy could see them? It is a safe guess that there are
very few, if any, who would be guilty of the action if they knew that even their fellow students could
see them. It is like nothing so much as striking a man who cannot defend himself. If the men in
question would only give a little consideration to these facts we believe that this annoying practice would be discontinued. There
can be no doubt but that this is the wish of most of the student body.

DR. THORNTON WHALING
(Continued from page 1)

remembered Davidson well, Wilson said, “There is nothing I remember better—the students, the professors, the share and the life there.”
He also humorously remarked that he remembered chapel as being held seemingly about 4 a.m.

He was next at Princeton as a student for three years under the presidency of that grand old Scotch divine,
Dr. James McCosh. “Princeton,” stated Dr. Whaling, “is Davidson enlarged, enriched, but with the same philosophical, political, religious and theological
horizon. This is the place to say that Scotch theology and life do not have that narrow and illiberal puritanical
excommunication of all good worldly things which marked the extreme type of iconoclastic British Puritanism.” Wilson studied law for two
years at that famous seat of culture and catholicity, the University of Virginia, after which followed several years of specialization
in the study of the philosophy of society and the State at Johns Hopkins. But his character had received its
set; his intellectual and cultural tastes had been fixed when he went to those renowned schools at Charlottesville and Baltimore;
and there is a singular and inner affinity between the heredity which on so many occasions he has gratefully acknowledged,
and his training and education which in so many respects was almost identical with that which his forefathers received at
St. Andrews or Edinburgh.

PRESIDENT MARTIN SPRAINS BACK WHILE EXERCISING

Dr. W. J. Martin has been suffering very severely from an injury he sustained to his back about four weeks
ago. While taking setting-up exercises, he tore loose a ligament in his back. The injury became worse, so much so
that now Doctor Martin has been compelled to remain in bed for over a week. He has recently had his
back X-rayed but it seems that the X-ray does not show the exact trouble. He has been under the care
of Doctor Brenizer, from Charlotte, and Doctor Stokes, from Salisbury. The entire student body hopes that Doctor Martin’s injury will
not prove serious and that he will soon be with them again.

“500 Again—Quality First!”

DR. SENTELLE SUFFERS FROM CASE OF LAGRIPPE

Doctor Sentelle was unable to meet his classes last week on account of an attack of Lagrippe. Last Tuesday morning
he was seized by a spell of nausea, and Doctor McConnell was immediately summoned. He discovered that the illness was
not of a serious nature, but ordered Doctor Sentelle to refrain from teaching the rest of the week and confined
him to his room Wednesday and Thursday.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

MY AUTO ‘TIS OF THEE,

My auto ’tis of thee, short road to poverty, of thee I chant. Iblew a pile of dough on you
three years ago; now you refuse to go! or won’t or can’t. Through town and countryside you were my joy
and pride, ah happy day. I loved the gaudy hue, the nice white tires new, but you’re down and out
for true, in every way. To thee, old rattlebox, came many bumps and knocks; for thee I grieve. Badly thy
top is torn, frayed are thy seats and worn; the whooping cough affects thy horn, I do believe. Thy perfume
swells the breeze, while good folk choke and wheeze as we pass by. I paid for thee a price ’twould
buy a mansion twice; now everybody's yelling “ice.” I wonder why? The motor has the grip, thy spark plug has
the pip, and woe is thine. I, too, have suffered chills, fatigue, and kindred ills, endeavoring to pay my bills,
since thou wert mine. Gone is my bankroll now, no more 'twould choke the cow, as once before, I had
the mon, so help me, John—I'd Yet, if I buy a car again and speed some more.—Exchange.

Davidson and Princeton modeled after St. Andrews, the oldest of the Scotch universities, and hence it is easily seen that
Woodrow Wilson’s heredity and education were not antagonistic, but co-partners well-mated and lovingly matched. After finishing his education he practiced
law for one year in partnership with Edward T. Rennick, in Atlanta. Upon finding the profession of law distasteful, he
made his debut as a teacher, passing in succession from Bryn Mawr to Wesleyan University and thence to Princeton, where
he remained for 20 years, the last eight in the capacity of president. During his term as president of Princeton
he was responsible for many improvements, but probably his greatest and most lasting impression on the environment and life of
the students was the manner in which he broke down the aristocratic spirit which dominated the Princeton campus. After he
left Princeton he was elected Governor of New Jersey and soon thereafter President of the United States. Mr. Wilson is
a very religious man and during his administration he adhered to three main beliefs: First, that God administers to the
world according to His divine program; second, that he was prepared for his office by God; and third, that the
doctrine of Jesus Christ should be his “pole star” in thinking. During the past two years he has kept absolutely
silent, standing steadfastly by his principles, waiting for “the coming of dawn.” His heart and mind are solidly back of
his policies, and, the speaker said, he has never been a sublimer figure than during these years of waiting, during
these years of self-sacrifice and complete self-surrender. In the years to come the world as a whole will finally recognize
him as having embodied the highest policy ever maintained, that of mobilizing the moral forces of the world for the
government of the world. The world is either better or worse each day as a result of your work and
influence. If the world is benefited by the service you render, you are bound to be—there is no power that
can rob you of the good which comes from the good you do—likewise, none that can protect you from the
harm which comes from the harm you do. The world—your world—is not measured by the reach of your arm nor
the horizon of your vision, but by the never-ceasing influence of your thoughts and acts. These are always making ripples
on the surface of time, and those ripples are eternally spreading beyond your most distant expectations.—Selected.

Since Thursday he has been steadily gaining strength and is now back in his normal condition of health. Until the
recent illness he had not missed a class on account of illness for some years. D. RALPH E. LANCASTER Doctor
Sentelle which few surpass. (Continued from page 1) When they returned to Davidson about 12 o'clock, Lancaster did not feel
well, so he went to the college physician, Dr. J. M. MacConnell, who examined him and sent him to the
infirmary. The boy did not wish to go, for he seemed to think nothing of the matter, as he had
had one or two attacks before. But the doctor sent him on anyway. In less than ten minutes after he
had been put to bed at the infirmary he had another attack and died. The report of his death was
started before breakfast and had spread over the whole student body by the time breakfast was over. The news was
all too well confirmed at chapel, before any announcement had been made, by Dr. Harding’s prayer. At the meeting of
the student body after chapel it was voted that a wreath be sent and that the president write a note
to Ralph’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. D. R. Lancaster, of Winston-Salem, as a feeble expression of sorrow and sympathy. While
affairs here appeared to run their normal course, there was an undercurrent of serious and sad reflection. This was especially
evident at the memorial service held Sunday night at the “Y” meeting. The crowd sat in deep silence while W.
M. McLeod read a few verses of Scripture and told in simple, touching words of Ralph Lancaster's life.

As the parson launched into his fourthly without closing the Bible on the pulpit before him, thus indicating that the
end of his sermon was not in sight, a stranger, who had slipped into a back pew shortly before, began
to show signs of restlessness. When the fifthly was announced he leaned forward and whispered earnestly to a gray-haired lady
in the pew ahead of him, “Pardon me, madam, but how long has he been preaching?” “I can’t exactly say,”
she replied; “thirty or forty years, I think.” The stranger heaved a sigh, “All right, then, I'll stay; he must
be nearly done.”—Orange and Blue.

OLD STORY. Close he held her in the dark, Neath the trees that shade the park. “Now you're all mine,”
with a sigh, Said the spider to the fly.”

One may easily decide what political party prevails in the U. N. C. by reading the letter of birthday wishes
sent to ex-President Woodrow Wilson. You may be interested to know that John Purser was one of the committee of
six, who sent this earnest tribute of love and appreciation from the Dialectic Literary Society. The society received a reply
from Wilson to their message, expressing warm appreciation of the cheer it gave him.

A contract has just been closed with Virginia Polytechnic Institute by the University of Pittsburgh for a dual track meet
at Blacksburg, Va., Thursday, April 13th. The Panthers also have a dual meet with the U. S. Naval Academy at
Annapolis, Saturday, April 15th—Va. Tech.

WILDCAT FIVE DEFEATS ELECTRIC WOMAN. (Continued from page 1) was raising his gun a Davidson man and found holding. Captain
Park of State shot the foul and an extra period was necessary. In the appendix both teams fought hard but
the guarding was so close that neither was able to score from the floor. Captain Crawford, however, made one of
his tries from the 15-foot line good while Park was unsuccessful in his two tries and the game was history.
Summary: Davidson (23) Position N.C. State (22) Mallory (4) R.F. Johnson (2) Beall (4) L.F. Zaps Long (0) Mauze (6)
C Groome (2) Crawford (7) R.G. Park (14) Homewood (4) L.G. Substitutes: Keeper for Long; Price for Mallory. Fouls: Mauze
0 out of 3; Crawford 3 out of 4; Park 6 out of 10. Referee: George (Va.) Timekeeper: Gray.

When she talks too long—interrupter. If her way of thinking is not yours—converter. If she is willing to come halfway—meter.
If she wants to go further—conductor. If she wants to go still further—dispatcher. If she wants to be an angel—transformer.
When she is sulky and will not speak—exciter. If she gets too excited—controller. If she proves your fears are wrong—compensator.
If she goes up in the air—condenser. If she wants chocolates—feeder. If she sings false—tuner. If she is in the
country—telegrapher.—Exchange.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with Miss Ellenwood next Friday night. Doctor Shewmake will give a lecture on “Dante.”
