THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 3, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS

VISIT TO LIBRARY REVEALS SOME EXCELLENT SELECTIONS

Upon looking over the books that have recently been catalogued in the library, a person cannot help noticing the variety
of subjects that they cover. There is a copy of “Educational Psychology,” by Starch; one of “Military Man-Power,” by Lincoln
Andreiss. Mr. Licks has written a book called “Recreations in Mathematics,” and a copy of that has been added. Although
we have misgivings as to the absolute truthfulness of the title of this last named one, we hope that others
than Douglass and Currie will be found who will be able to vouch for it. A copy of “Handbook of
Birds,” and also a beautifully illustrated two-volume edition of Seton's “Life Histories of Northern Animals,” have been added to the
books on birds and animals. A very interesting and instructive meeting of the Polity Club was held in Shearer Hall
last week. The plans of the meeting were to represent a miniature armament conference, on which five very instructive papers
were read. Lacy, presiding over the meeting, opened with the reading of his paper. Representing America, he set forth the
object of the armament conference, including Mr. Hughes’ plan of the conference. Each in turn represented his country, first giving
a brief sketch of its history, its alliances, and the benefits and effects which the armament conference would have on
it. The members taking part were: W. W. Moore, representing Japan; H. Ky Russell, England; L. A. Taylor, China; and
A. C. Summers, France. At the close of the meeting those present expressed the opinion that they had a much
clearer conception of what is now being done by all the nations represented at the conference.

PROFESSOR HARDING WRITES OUR COLLEGE SONG IN GREEK

Dr. C. R. Harding, professor of Greek, has composed the chorus of the college song, O Davidson, in Greek. All
men in his classes have been practicing this chorus for several weeks. If someone would give the Chinese now, Davidson’s
beautiful and stirring college song would have gone around the world.

JIM SPRUNT SUCCEEDS J.P. PRICE ON STUDENT COUNCIL

On the night of January 18th the Seniors had a meeting in Shearer Hall to elect a student councilman to
fill the vacancy caused by J. P. Price’s resignation. The following named men were nominated: LaFar, Sprunt, McKeithen, Knox, and
McCrary. Upon his own request LaFar’s name was withdrawn. There was only one ballot taken, Sprunt being elected with Knox
as second man.

DAVIDSON MEN SUPPORT THE WILSON FOUNDATION DRIVE

The Davidson students responded almost unanimously in the recent Woodrow Wilson Fund drive and a total of one hundred and
twenty-five dollars was raised. Prof. A. Currie made a short talk at chapel on the aim of the drive and
said that it was founded with the purpose of propagating the ideals of Wilson by giving prizes, similar to the
Nobel prizes, for distinguished work in the realms of international peace and unity. The town of Davidson was divided up
into sections and a goodly amount was raised there also. Davidson is proud of its world-known alumnus and is always
ready to show, in a material as well as in other ways, her love for Woodrow Wilson.

POINT SYSTEM INAUGURATED FOR GRADUATION REQUISITE

The faculty, during the past few years, has noticed that the average scholastic standing has been somewhat below normal. As
a result, the point system has been introduced as an incentive to better work. This system has been used and
found successful in several colleges and universities of note. In this system, the points are arranged in a scale in
accordance with the present method of grading. A grade of A, for one term, is equal to four points; B
is equal to three points; C is equal to two, and D to one. If the grade is continued for
the whole year, the points are doubled. Under this system, it is necessary for a student to obtain two hundred
points in four years, or an average of fifty points a year. A mere passing of all the required tickets
will not entitle a student to a diploma.

COLLEGE BAND PREPARING FOR TWO LENGTHY JOURNEYS

Plans are under way for two trips for the college band, although no definite arrangements have yet been made. The
first trip will probably take in the colleges of North Carolina. Concerts will most likely be rendered at Mitchell College,
Salem College, M. C. C. W., Peace Institute, and others. This trip will take place the latter part of February.
The second trip will be made to Agnes Scott and Brenau, and while in Georgia the band will play for
the Laymen’s Convention at Athens. This trip will most likely take place some time in March, as soon as final
arrangements can be made. The band has proved to be a big success this year and many novelty additions have
been added to its program, among them a quartet and mandolin club. Another item of interest is the new orchestra.
For harmony and syncopating jazz, they can’t be beat.

DAVIDSON PROFESSORS OF THE FUTURE ARRIVE HERE

Signals, 19, 26, 42, 8! These were the first sounds which were audible from young Hugh Morton Grey, junior. By
this, we know that he, like his worthy father, will don the moleskins, and his name also will be written
in the Davidson Hall of Fame. This may seem like a rather early prophecy, because Hugh Junior was only born
January 10th, but from all indications, he is following in his father’s footsteps, and who knows but that some day
he too might control the Red and Black Warriors. Here’s to you, young Hugh Morton, junior! “Now gentlemen, John Milton
is one of our greatest English poets.” Yes, when we send our sons to Davidson in the future they will
have the same advantages which we now enjoy, for then as now, an illustrious Doctor Shewmake will head the English
department. That will be our guess, if the old proverb of “like father, like son,” holds true, for the son
has arrived and will without doubt be brought up in the way which has gained fame for the present Doctor
Shewmake. On New Year's day, the third young “Cobbler” arrived in Davidson, and has been named Charles Tiffin by his
parents, Dr. and Mrs. Edwin F. Shewmake.

SPRING TERM PROGRAM

(Continued from page 1)

matches, so that the Davidson golfers might test their skill with other colleges or athletic associations of the state. One
of the biggest events of the term will be Junior Speaking, which starts on March 22nd. The Junior class is
making elaborate preparations for the occasion and plans are being made to entertain a large number of guests. Work has
already commenced on the oratorical phase of the event. The first of which will be with Randolph-Macon College on March
3rd, at Peace Institute in Raleigh. The second will be with Wake Forest, in Charlotte, on April 4th. Preliminaries have
not been held up to date, but the Davidson representatives in these two contests will be picked within the next
few weeks. The four literary societies have an extensive program in view and expect to make this spring term one
of the best in the history of the organizations. The two new societies are well on their feet by this
time and are in splendid working order. Not only will especial attention be given to the literary work, but also
to the social side of the societies.Attention be paid to inter-collegiate debates, but considerable effort will be spent on the
Junior-Senior and Fresh-Soph inter-society contests. The Glee Club is working on plans whereby that organization will tour North Carolina and
possibly South Carolina. The Y. M. C. A., both locally and in deputation work, will strive to make this year
the brightest on record, a number of interesting affairs having been planned already for the benefit of the student body.
The college publications are expecting great things for the new term and will endeavor to represent the college in the
best way possible. The annual is being placed in the hands of the publishers and will be ready for distribution
sometime in May. The Davidson College Magazine will appear from time to time and will contain a number of short
stories, essays, poems, and articles written by students ranking high in literary circles. The Davidsonian will continue to work for
the best interests of the students and the college. From the above, it can be seen that all student activities
seem to be in a progressive and aggressive condition, and everything points to a “bigger and better” Davidson.

FRESHMAN CLASS PRESENT SWEATERS TO PIGSKIN MEN

The sweaters for the “Wildcat Eleven” have arrived at last and are much in evidence on the campus. As is
the custom, the Freshman class presented the sweaters as a token of their appreciation for the work of the team.

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. Pettingill very delightfully entertained a few friends informally Tuesday evening. Mrs. E. F. Shewmake returned home Tuesday from a
visit to relatives in Gastonia. Dr. Thos. W. Lingle addressed the School convention last Wednesday at Coolemee. Mrs. A. Currie
is convalescing from an attack of pleurisy. Mrs. Olin White entertained for a few friends in honor of Mrs. Hill
and Mrs. McGowan. Mrs. L. M. Currie will entertain some friends next Friday evening in honor of her mother, Mrs.
Jopp, of Niagara Falls, N. Y. Miss Ellen Black and her friend Miss Carr, students at Flora Macdonald College, are
expected to arrive in Davidson Monday. They will go to Charlotte that night to enjoy Kreisler’s concert. Miss Annie Robson,
of Greensboro, is visiting her aunts, the Misses Shaw. Major Hearn visited his parents in Alabama last week. Dr. Martin
suffered a painful accident last week, tearing loose a ligament in his back. His physicians require him to remain in
bed for six weeks.

WANTED

Representatives to sell monuments. Attractive proposition. CHARLOTTE MARBLE & GRANITE WORKS CHARLOTTE, N. C. “Largest in the Carolinas”

Two debates are on schedule, the first being...

North Carolina basketball fans will have the opportunity of witnessing the Davidson Wildcats, conquerors of Charlotte “Y” and Wofford and
conceded to be a strong bidder for the state championship, in action on a quartet of occasions next week. Trinity
at Durham, N. C. State at Raleigh, Wake Forest at Wake Forest, and Elon at Elon, is the menu to
be dished up on the nights of February 7th to 10th inclusive. The Red and Black quint has won handily
both games on its home floor and starts on its tour of the Tarheel State confident that it can come
out on top in all four squabbles. The local “poison squad” meets the strongest teams in the state in this
series, which is expected to supply the acid test to the Wildcats’ mettle. Trinity, the first foe, is sure to
force the Presbyterians to the limit of their ability to win. The Methodists have a great basketball team and are
thirsty for the Wildcats’ blood. State, Wake Forest, and Elon all have strong teams, especially dangerous on their home floors.
If the Tarheel spectators come out to see some individual star on the Davidson quintette, they will be sorely disappointed.
Unlike the teams of recent years, it will not be made up of one or two stars. Teamwork is the
keynote of the squad and this is the real secret of the team’s success so far; whether on offensive or
defensive, every man is in every play. With but two letter men around whom to form a team and not
a man six feet in height available, Coach Hengeveld has changed the type of play at Davidson. The popular mentor
has molded five fast men who can handle the ball into a team that is keenly gate phenomenal success. On
the offensive, the five men weave the sphere back and forth across the court until they have a chance to
bury it in the meshes of the goal. When that opportunity comes, they rarely fail to ring up a couple
of counters. On the defense, Crawford, Davis, and Mauze present a trio that are past-masters at the art of breaking
up dribbles and present an impregnable defense which no team has been able to penetrate.

TWO EXCELLENT ADDRESSES

(Continued from page 1)

Doctor Reavis presented the mission field of Africa in a light hitherto unrevealed to the student body. Doctor Reavis drew
an interesting picture of his trip to Africa from the time he left New York until his arrival in the
heart of the Congo. On the boat were merchants going to Africa, some to be without sight of a white
man for years. Their only reward for this was traveling expenses and $50 a month. One of his most striking
points was the openness of the Africans to Christian influence. They are crying for missionaries and receive them with open
arms. Some towns have built churches which have rotted away waiting for the missionary that never came. They come for
hundreds of miles through the heart of the jungles to plead for a missionary to return with them, but their
pleas are in vain. There is a brighter side, however. The missionaries in the field have a tremendous influence and
have done much to uplift the native surroundings. They have established churches, hospitals, and mission schools. Through these, they are
satisfying the needs as quickly as possible. The educated native workers, brought up in the mission schools, are reaching the
hearts of those on whom the white man has no influence. Doctor Reavis closed with an appeal for more workers.
For such a country as this, where the needs are tremendous and where the results of the work grow more
manifold daily, he issued an appeal for teachers, doctors, preachers, and industrial men. The usual song service, led by Okey
Allison, was enjoyed by those present. A cornet duet by Dupuy and Nesbitt made a decided impression on the audience.

CAMPUS COVERED BY WHITE CARPET

(Continued from page 1)

Romefelt, who so ably led the initiations last year. Mid-day chapel exercises proved a joy to the upper-classmen and a
nightmare to the Freshies. Many were the applications after the exercises were over to assist in gathering up the hymn
books, sweeping the floor, etc., etc. Wise they were, for outside the four walls of that historic building upper-classmen awaited
them galore. A battle royal ensued as each Freshie put in an appearance. The conflict was equal to Napoleon at
Waterloo, for the poor Fresh went down in defeat. Boo LaFar is now the supreme commander of the Ancient Order
of Mystic Whiteness, he having been given his third degree during the recent festivities. Other initiates into this order were
Sorrells, Black, Davis, McFadden, Hamer (3rd degree), Kenneth McCrary, and many others too numerous to mention.

Dr. and Mrs. McGeachy, of Charlotte, spent last Friday with Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding.

NONE TOO LARGE NONE TOO SMALL

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President H. ANDERSON, Vice-President C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS

We guarantee title, principal, and interest.

SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C. 18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach, and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for
A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. A. L. Faul, Mgr. Phone 902
