THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

DR. WILLIAM MACK WORTHY
SON OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Dr. William Mack, ’83, as a scholar, as an author, and as a student, represents the type of worthy men who went out from Davidson in days gone by. Dr. Mack is a profound scholar. He entered Davidson while very young and received the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1882, at the age of 18. He was the second honor man of his class. He returned to Davidson the following year and received his A.M. degree. In 1887 he received an L.L.B. degree from the University of Missouri. The degree of L.L.D. was conferred upon him by Davidson College in 1907 and by the University of Missouri in 1914.

As an author, Dr. Mack has gained eminent distinction in the realm of law. His principal works are: Digest of American State Reports, Rapalje and Mack’s Digest of Railway Decisions, Encyclopedia of Forms and Precedents, and Corpus Juris. He is Editor-in-Chief of the Cyclopedia of Law and Procedure, which is a landmark in legal writing, very widely used and referred to in practically all important textbooks on law. Dr. Mack has kindly presented the Davidson College library with a set of his Cyclopedia, which is in daily use by the law students.

As a student, Dr. Mack always enjoyed college fun and was very popular with his fellow students. He was one of a number of brothers who attended Davidson. He was born in Sumter County, S.C., on October 24, 1865. He began his career as a deputy clerk in Baston County, Missouri, 1885-86. He practiced law in Lamar, Missouri, and later in San Francisco, California. He was admitted to the bar in 1887.

Dr. Mack is very genial personally. He is loyal to Davidson and interested in anyone connected with Davidson. In the campaign of 1908-10 for funds, he made a gift of $1,000 to Davidson as endowment for a scholarship named in honor of his father, Rev. Joseph Bingham Mack. His father was a trustee of Davidson for many years. Dr. Mack was on the campus last at Davidson’s celebration of her 75th anniversary in 1912, but took no part in the program at that time because he had just returned from his father’s funeral.

Dr. Mack’s home address is 49 South Elliott Place, New York City. His office address is 272 Flatbush Avenue Extension, Brooklyn, N.Y. His has been a career of achievement and success. Davidson is proud to rank Dr. William Mack as one of her most distinguished alumni.

MARRIAGES

Jones-Howell

Of interest to hosts of friends was the marriage of Miss Elizabeth Howell and Mr. Robert Cannon Jones, Jr., ’18, solemnized Wednesday, January 4th, at the home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Henry Howell, on North Crest Road, Chattanooga, Tenn. Rev. J. W. Bachman performed the ceremony in a most impressive manner, assisted by Rev. William C. Robertson. The ceremony was solemnized in the drawing room, which was adorned with stately palms, evergreen vines, and quantities of white roses and chrysanthemums.

Mr. Guy O. Jones, ’21, acted as his brother’s best man. Miss Katherine Howell, sister of the bride, was maid of honor. The bride was radiantly lovely in her gown of lustrous white satin with its garniture of rare rose point lace. Her veil was of the same beautiful lace and was fastened to her soft hair with a coronet of orange blossoms. She has just made her debut and is one of the belles of Chattanooga.

Calais-McKenzie

At the home of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. T. M. Calais, on South Irby Street, at five o’clock, December 28th, Miss Margaret Vann Calais became the bride of Mr. William Cameron McKenzie, ex-’16. Both are popular young people of Florence, S.C. Promptly at five o’clock, to the strains of Mendelssohn's wedding march, the bride entered the room leaning upon the arm of her father and was met at the altar by the bridegroom, accompanied by his brother, J. S. McKenzie, Jr. There, in the presence of the immediate relatives and a few friends, a short but impressive ceremony made them man and wife. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Furman H. Martin, D.D., pastor of the First Baptist Church, of which the bride and bridegroom are members.

Soon after the marriage, the happy couple slipped away from the festivities and, entering a car which the bridegroom presented as a gift to the bride, drove away on a motor trip to Florida. Upon their return, they will be at home in Bannockburn, S.C., where Mr. McKenzie is engaged in business.

Here and There Among the Alumni

W. K. Blake, ex-’16, is a student of the Columbia Theological Seminary.

Leon C. McAskill, ’10, is with the Raleigh Times newspaper, Raleigh, N.C.

Robert H. Bennett, ’16, is the physical director of the Y.M.C.A. of Raleigh, N.C.

Harvey Orr, ex-’18, is in the cotton buying business in Charlotte, N.C., being connected in business with his father, H. H. Orr, a prominent business man of that city.

Rev. A. L. McDuffie, ’13, has moved from Bealyville to Hitchins, Ky.

Hugh Smith, ’20, is High School principal at Lovington, New Mexico. Mr. Smith writes that he has not seen a Davidson man since going to the West.

Dr. Wearn Honored

Dr. Joseph Treloar Wearn, ’13, son of Mr. and Mrs. Joseph Wearn, of Charlotte, has been signally honored. Dr. Wearn is a member of the medical faculty at the University of Pennsylvania and recently has been engaged in research work on blood. He was invited to address the American Physiology Society at its annual meeting held at Hartford, Conn., December 20th.

After reading his paper, Dr. Wearn’s name was proposed for membership. Qualification for membership in the society is to have done some original work of such quality that the society judges it of sufficient value to admit the worker. Doctor Wearn is said to be the only North Carolinian ever admitted to the society and his friends, not only in Charlotte, but throughout the state, will be interested in the honor that has been conferred upon him.

Doctor Wearn was graduated from Davidson in the class of ’13, and was then graduated from Harvard Medical College. After his graduation, he was at the Peter Brent Brigham hospital in Boston, Mass., for five years. Last fall he went to Philadelphia, where he is connected with the department of pharmacology at the University of Pennsylvania.

CAMPUSISMS

Joe Crayton, of the class of ’17, spent the week-end on the Hill.

Misses Alice and Roberta Walker motoredUp from Charlotte Saturday night for the basketball game. Sam Brady, ’21, who is now located in Washington, D.C., is spending a few days visiting his mother. John Gaston, ’21, came over from Belmont Saturday to see the Wildcats defeat the Charlotte “Y” team in basketball.

The Glee Club of Emory University was on tour through Florida, where they played before audiences in the largest cities in the State. Everywhere the men were greeted by large and enthusiastic bodies of music lovers. It is understood that plans are underway for a tour of Alabama, Tennessee, and possibly Virginia, during the coming spring.

Miss Orrie Steele entertained the Davidson Sewing Club last Friday evening. A delightful meeting was the result. Miss Maude Vinson entertained the Book Lovers’ Club Friday afternoon.

R.-M.’s SOLILOQUY (With Apologies to “Uncle Willy”)
Read I Kings 19:1-21

To bob it, or not to bob it—that is the question;
As intimated in the last lesson, the revival of Jehovah worship was short-lived. It was at best an intellectual assent to the fact of the Lord’s supremacy, not a heart and will return to Him. The mental state seems to have been a belief.

ELIJAH’S FLIGHT AND RETURN
To let the scissors have their way
Or leave the locks behind.
To bob it, or not to bob it—that is the question;
Whether ’tis good for the head
To die—to sleep no more—
And wear kid curlers to bed!
The result of this partial return to God is shown in our present lesson. There has come a reaction. The enemies of true worship, momentarily defeated, have recovered and made a fresh and more determined attack. God's people have been routed and their intrepid leader has fled in panic to the mountain fastnesses for safety. In his hiding, still agitated by fear and disquieted by discouragement, God visits him. The words of the Lord sounded in his ears, “Elijah, what doest thou here?” That the fear and panic which had seized the Tishbite had not entirely abated seems evident from the response. Read verse 10. He imagined that all the true worshippers had been slain and he alone was left. The Lord dealt gently but firmly with the terrified prophet. He is commanded to return to the battle. He was told that his terror had blinded him to the fact that beside himself Jehovah had yet left to Him “seven thousand who have not bowed the knee to Baal.”

With this command to return and with the encouragement which the words of the Lord had given him, Elijah returns to rally the scattered forces of true worshippers for another and mightier conflict. The rebuke which God administered to His prophet was none the less impressive because of the softness of the words in which it was clothed. Elijah must have been more keenly cut by it than if it had been more sternly spoken. In it, we see the sternness and the gentleness of God intermingled. It shows at once God’s tenderness and His wisdom. The Lord knew that His prophet had not deliberately run away. He had been mastered by the passion and fear and in its grip was hardly to be accountable, at least fully, for what he had done. The psychology of this instance in the prophet’s life is interesting. Our lesson might be entitled from the psychologist’s viewpoint, “God’s Way of Dealing With Fear.” We shall discuss it more fully in class.

TOWN NEWS
Miss Lucy Shumaker and Mrs. Jas. Shumaker visited in Statesville last week. Coach and Mrs. Hugh Grey are receiving congratulations upon the birth of a son, H. M., Jr., last week. Coach and Mrs. Hengeveld have rented the cottage formerly occupied by Mrs. Lola Johnston, for the rest of the term. Mr. Charles Grey, of Hendersonville, spent Sunday with Doctor Grey and family. Mrs. Lola Johnston, of Winston-Salem, was here last week for a few days. Dr. T. W. Lingle is supplying the pulpit of the Lincolnton Church until that church calls a pastor. Mr. and Mrs. Camden Pendleton spent Sunday with Professor and Mrs. W. W. Woods. Mrs. Hood and daughter, Miss Kalista Hood, have returned home after spending the holidays in Water Valley, Miss. Mrs. J. L. Jopps, of Niagara Falls, N.Y., is visiting her daughter, Mrs. Locke Currie.

SIN
“Sin is essentially egoism or self-ism, putting self in God’s place. It has four principal characteristics or manifestations: (1) Self-sufficiency instead of faith; (2) Self-will instead of submission; (3) Self-seeking instead of benevolence; (4) Self-righteousness instead of humility and reverence.”—Anon.

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this line
Army Shoes, Dress Shoes, and Tennis Shoes
We also have a good line of FURNISHINGS
Knox & Barnette

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N.C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms, 150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Central Hotel Cigar Stand
Selwyn Hotel Cigar Stand
Joe D. Smith, Mgr.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS, CANDIES, PICKLES, SANDWICHES “an’ everything”

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Established 1873
A.H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers of Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON, JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly