THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

Embossed Stationery from ELLIOTT of PHILADELPHIA
Davidson Seal—Gold on white.
Davidson College—Blue on white and gray.
Fraternity Seal—Gold on white.
Very moderately priced at from 75c to 95c the box.
THE COMMISSARY

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

EATS FOR THAT EMPTY FEELING
The Misses Schofields

After Every

TOWN NEWS

The new Book Club met with Mrs. O. J. Theis last Tuesday. Mrs. Ellis was chairman and Mrs. L. M. Currie was elected president. Misses Winifred Potts and Elizabeth Crawford have enrolled as students at N. C. C. W. Miss Willie Henderson is at Watts Hospital studying to be a trained nurse. The Thelemite Club met with Mrs. E. J. Erwin last Wednesday. Mrs. Wilson McConnell gave an interesting talk on her recent tour of Europe, illustrating it with beautiful pictures. Miss Nora Tompson has returned home after an extended visit with relatives in Wyoming. Tuesday evening, Prof. E. J. Erwin spoke before the Woman’s Club of Winston-Salem, on the subject of “The Modern One-Act Play.” Mrs. Erwin and the Misses Young accompanied him to the Twin City. Mrs. H. W. Hood and small sons have returned after a pleasant vacation in West Virginia. A. M. Hurd, ’24, was quite ill last week with ptomaine poison, and Wednesday was taken to the Charlotte hospital for a few days’ treatment. Dr. and Mrs. Harding spent several days in Charlotte last week, having gone to welcome their daughter, Mrs. A. A. McGeachy, who has been in Europe for several months. Mrs. Gibbs has returned to Davidson and has opened a boarding house on Main Street. Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs. Archibald Currie, members of the executive committee of the N. C. Synodical Auxiliary, will go to Charlotte next week where the auxiliary meets in the First Presbyterian Church. Mrs. Hamilton and Miss Shaw will also attend as representatives of Concord Presbyterial. The faculty and wives gave a reception Saturday evening at 8 o’clock in the Library to the new members of the faculty and their wives. Dr. Wilson McConnell gave an interesting talk on his recent tour to Europe.

SANDLAPPERS PLAN SATURDAY NIGHT FEED

The South Carolina Club will hold its first banquet of the session Saturday night in the gym. All the Sandlappers are requested to be there immediately after the picture show. One of the principal features of this occasion will be the initiation of Freshmen. Talley Elliott and Windy Aikin are in charge of this most momentous ceremony. The other interesting event on the program will be the banquet. This will be managed by J. Benson Sloan who promises a royal feast to the men from the Old Palmetto State.

VIRGINIA CLUB HAS FIRST FEED OF YEAR

The Virginia Club held its first feed this year last Friday night in 11 North Barracks. John Grey’s table groaned under the weight of fruit, cakes, ice cream and peanuts. The entire club of 18 members willingly gave John a rising vote of thanks for his work in preparing the spread, after which it joyfully made away with the aforementioned made-in-Virginia products. A short business session was held, and the following officers elected: H. M. Morris, president; Paul Price, vice-president, and E. C. Moomaw, secretary-treasurer. President Morris delivered his inaugural address urging a closer bond of friendship among the Virginia men on the campus so that the Old Dominion may better be put on the map at Davidson College. Next came the most enjoyable part of the evening, each man contributing his share with a short story of his home town in Virginia, and some jokes. From Bob Gordon's characterization of Fort Defiance as the “Mecca of the South” to Henry Morris’ of Staunton as “God’s Country,” Virginia wit was enjoyed. The wit of the crowd flowed freely until 11:30, when they disbanded with a loud “Fifteen for Virginia” on the campus, and a resolution to have another feed soon.

GEORGIA CLUB MAKES PLANS FOR THE YEAR

There was a regular feed at the Civic League Hall Saturday night when 47 Georgia “Crackers” got together for their annual set-to. Bill Baker, the president of the august organization, presided with due solemnity and gave the signal for festivities to begin. After the feed Baker called on Sorrells, the boy from Calhoun, to give an address of welcome to the Freshmen. This he did in fine style, stressing the need of new men getting into some sort of college activity. Fred Franklin gave a fitting response to the “President and Gentlemen.” Hillhouse and Gallaway also gave short talks. The next number was the introduction of the members, each man speaking for himself. There was much discussion as to whose town was the best and finally the contest was declared a tie between Fraser, of Hinesville, and Franklin, of Lithonia. The general opinion is that Gamble would have won out for Macon had it not been, as Fresh Franklin said, that it was too far away from Lithonia. The Georgia club is planning a progressive program this year, to wit—a scheme to get in touch with the High Schools of the State and let them know just why Davidson is the best college for them to attend. A committee to attend to this consists of Elkins, Sorrells and Gallaway with Elkins as chairman. The occasion was closed by a Georgia song rally led by Sorrells and featured by Gamble’s rendition of “I’m a Rambling Wreck.”

TRIP TO GREENSBORO TAKEN BY QUARTETTE

On last Thursday afternoon the Davidson College Quartette, composed of Ted Jones, Bob McLeod, Victor Brown and J. L. Green, left the college for Greensboro to help in the raising of funds for a “Bigger and Better Davidson.” The train crew must have sympathized with the Greensboro people for they allowed a drawhead to break, and left the ambitious singers sitting on the road. They softened their hearts, however, and returned, picked up the song birds, and completed the trip. Nick Carter met the quartette. The business conference met at the First Presbyterian Church. Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of Davidson, now president of Washington and Lee University, was the principal speaker of the evening. Doctor Smith’s speech was a wonderful study of world conditions, as well as a polished oration. The other speakers were Doctor Wells,of Columbia Seminary; Mr. Lockhart, who is managing the financial campaign, and Doctor Egbert M. Smith, secretary of foreign missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church. The quartette sang at intervals throughout the entire program, all the numbers being well received. Arrangements were made for an engagement at N.C.C.W. for the Glee Club sometime this fall. The next trip for the quartette will be to Tarboro.

WILDCAT WRESTLERS TO MAKE APPEARANCE

Davidson’s wrestling prospects for the coming year are encouraging. Six of the seven members of last year’s team have returned, while among the freshmen are several men who have had training along these lines. Captain Cromartie announces that the mats will be in good shape in a few days, and training will start immediately. It would be to the advantage of any new men, aspirants of the team, to see him at once. The only match so far confirmed is with Trinity, at Durham, February 23. This match is the last of a double contract with this college. The past season Trinity’s contenders met Davidson’s representatives on the Hill, and the former returned victorious by the close margin of two points. Interest is being manifested, and as a result, efforts are being made to bring a team here this season. Negotiations with Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee University are expected to culminate in matches at Davidson.

What does the man who used to hide behind a woman’s skirt do now?—Small Packages. He’s enjoying himself on the street corners looking over the other things that the skirt used to hide.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

“Red and Black” Plays A. & E. in Raleigh

Davidson meets her first contender for the State championship next Saturday when she plays A. & E. at Raleigh. It is hard to form an exact estimate of the strength of the two teams this early in the season. Each has played only one game. Coach Fetzer’s warriors are ready for the fray, and after another week of practice, the Red and Black machine should be in shape to repeat the feat of last year. One interesting fact about the contest is that Jack Black’s brother will be found playing left end for A. & E. This is his first year of collegiate football.

Tennis Tournament Began on Monday

Eight teams in doubles, 27 entered singles.

NAVY DEFEATS DAVIDSON IN OPENING GAME

Flowers Makes 70-Yard Run for Davidson’s Touchdown

In the opening game of the season, in which both teams showed lack of condition, Davidson was defeated by the Navy eleven at Annapolis on Saturday by the score of 27. The game began promptly at 2:30, Navy receiving the kick-off. They were held for downs and punted. Davidson was also unable to gain, and an exchange of punts followed in which Grey clearly had the better of his opponent. Davidson was mainly on the defensive and near the end of the period, the Navy registered three touchdowns. The second quarter was much faster, neither side scoring. The last half was featured by a 70-yard run around left end by Flowers, which resulted in Davidson’s only touchdown. This run, with the defensive work of Burns and the punting of Grey, were the features of the game from the Davidson standpoint. The Washington Herald contained the following account: “The Carolinians fought a dogged game all the way, but it easily became apparent that the Navy offensive was much more powerful.”

Statistics of Davidson College Students

Considering the influence of the war on the colleges of this country, Davidson has this year a very full student body. Up to the present time, 303 students have been enrolled. Of these, 107 are freshmen, 83 sophomores, 61 juniors, 50 seniors, and two M.A. men. All students, except 12, are members of some church. There are 256 Presbyterians, 18 Methodists, 9 Baptists, 3 Episcopalians, and one each of the Reformed, Moravian, Lutheran, and Christian Apostolic Churches. The representation by states is as follows: North Carolina, 170; South Carolina, 44; Georgia, 21; Tennessee, 16; Virginia, 12; Mississippi, 9; Arkansas, 5; Florida, 7; Kentucky, 2; Louisiana, 1; Maryland, 1; Alabama, 1; Oklahoma, 1; and Missouri, 1. Foreign countries: China, 6; Persia, 1; Japan, 1; Brazil, 1.

NEW PROFESSORS ARE GREETED TO DAVIDSON

On last Saturday evening, the faculty had a social hour in the Library. From 8 until 10, the old members welcomed the new professors and their wives. Dr. Thomas W. Lingle presided in his usual charming style. The address of welcome was made by Doctor Martin. After this, Dr. J. W. MacConnell gave an interesting account of his experiences and observations in Europe this summer. The refreshments were served by Mrs. Hood. A very enjoyable evening was spent.

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
16 W. Trade St.

ALUMNI!

Were you at Davidson in ’07 when the Wildcats frocked V.P.I., 12 to 5? Or were you parked here in ’10 or ’17 when the Virginians just managed to pull through by the margin of a cat’s meow? If you were, we know you'll be back for Home-Coming Day. If you weren't, come back and see what happens when these fighting teams get together. The “Battle of the Century” was fought over a year ago in Boyle’s Thirty Acres, but the Battle of the Year will be pulled off on Sprunt Field on October 21. Come back and enjoy “the thrill that comes once in a lifetime.”

About 500 students missed the best scrimmage of the year last Monday. Only a few witnessed the affair that lasted for an hour and a quarter. The two teams battled up and down the field, and when the dust had cleared away, the varsity led, 12-0, Davis and Martin scoring the markers. More fight was shown than has been seen on Sprunt Field all year.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

COLLAR
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Inc., Troy, N.Y.

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE
CLAUDE LEE, Manager
THURSDAY, 5th
FRIDAY, 6th
SATURDAY, 7th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director
Overture
PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY
Selections—The Academy Orchestra
GRACE AYER AND BROTHER
A Pleasant Surprise
William E. Ethel
COOK and ROSERVE
In “Love via Special Delivery”
FOSTER and RAE
A Hilarious Comedy Skit With Delightful Specialties
Frank—WILSON BROTHERS—Joe
“The Lieutenant and the Cop”
The Fi Singing Pol
“You Go Out”
SIG FRANZ AND COMPANY
In the World on Wheels
Featuring La Petite Violette
Pathe News

PIANOS
CHARLOTTE