THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1922

PROPOSED REGULATIONS FOR WATER SHORTAGE

What is it that makes the bulletin boards suddenly so popular? Why do the Freshmen pull their caps down over
their eyes and look like they’d lost their last friend? And why do the Sophomores look like paddles were a
thing of the past? Why the unusual eloquence among the Juniors and Seniors? It's the new regulations governing the use
of water. The past few days since the rain have been characterized by a decrease rather than an increase in
the local supply. According to the proposed regulations, the Fresh will be allowed one bath a month, the Sophs one
every three weeks, and the Juniors and Seniors one every two weeks. The football men may take a bath once
a week except when they are on trips, when they may waste the precious liquid in true anti-Hoover spirit. In
addition to the above, every student may wash his face, hands, and one ear each morning. Water will be served
with all meatless meals at the boarding houses. These regulations are to be enforced until we have enough rain to
revive one of our 17 wells.

DELTA PI KAPPA IS DAVIDSON PRODUCT

Last week, after the journalists of the campus had gotten back into the old swing of things, the first meeting
of D. P. K. was held, marking the opening of the fraternity’s third year of work. Two years ago, those
Davidson students most interested in journalistic excellence organized the group that became Delta Pi Kappa. Since then, there have been
taken into the group those men who showed the greatest abilities in that line of work. At present, the roll
is as follows: Mauze, E. H., Ogden, D. H., Brown, W. P., Gamble, W. A., Aiken, R. C., Elliott, W.
T., Elkins, L. D. Delta Pi Kappa is particularly a Davidson organization in that it was founded here and has
already begun preparations for expansion. At the last meeting, proposals were considered for the establishment of chapters in several other
Southeastern colleges. The fraternity has proved itself a true Davidson product and bids fair to bring honor to itself and
to old Davidson.

Announcement

We wish to announce that MR. W. J. COOPER of the Davidsonian Staff is now our representative on “The Hill.”
You may be assured that any orders placed with him will receive our most careful attention.

CHARLOTTE, N. C.
14-16 East Fourth Street
College Annuals
Magazines
Catalogues
Social Stationery
(3-Day Service on Wedding Invitations)

SENIORS WILL WEAR BRAND NEW DERBIES

Senior week, 1922, will usher in a new era in the annals of Davidson College, a new precedent in the
history of classes, and, above all, the niftiest and best-looking bunch of Seniors that have ever trod these sacred walks
of learning. The Seniors are going to don derbies! These derbies will be in the latest mode, designed so as
to enhance to the greatest extent the good points of each man’s peculiar physiognomy. The man that Brown, Inc., of
Charlotte, sent up to measure Seniors’ heads is an artist in his chosen profession, and the aforementioned hats will be
the consummation of perfected art in derby making. Each hat will be lined with silk in the class colors, purple
and white, and will have printed in gold, upon the lining, the name of the owner, class numerals, and the
name of the college.

PROSPECTS UNUSUALLY BRIGHT FOR GLEE CLUB

The prospects for an A-1 Glee Club this year are exceedingly good, according to reports of the leaders. Although the
first call for the Glee Club practice has not been sounded forth, anyone crossing the campus at any hour can
easily tell that there will be great competition for the coveted place on this famous Wildcat organization. Under the managership
of Vic Brown and able leadership of Bob McLeod, the best club ever formed at Davidson is promised. The Freshman
class offers some fine voices and expert musicians who will give the old men a tough scrap for their places.
It is the plan of the manager to have an experienced instructor visit the Hill once a week to help
shape up the club and develop it into a thing that the student body will be proud to claim and
boost. The trips for this year are promising. Arrangements have already been completed for a tour to Spartanburg and another
to Greensboro, while trips to Charlotte, Gastonia, Rock Hill, Concord, and other nearby places will be arranged later. But wait!
Will the student body have the privilege to hear its own club? They certainly will because the Glee Club is
to furnish the entertainment for that gala event, Senior Week, and rumors are that they will pull off the best
yet and keep the old college ringing with the best of songs while the Glee Club orchestra will make our
hearts beat faster with the most up-to-the-minute jazz and may even dip into grand opera. Practice will not start until
a later date. It was decided that it would be better to wait until nearer the time of the engagement
and have intensive practice than to scatter practice over so much time.

PROFESSOR GOLDIERE COMES TO DAVIDSON

Professor Augustin V. Goldiere, new instructor in the department of Spanish, is like every true Davidsonian, a lover of the
“D.” Though not a son of old Davidson, he holds her worthy initial in profound veneration for he hails from
Dartmouth College, Hanover, N. H., “the next best college to Davidson.” He graduated at Dartmouth with the class of ’20
as a Bachelor of Arts, and then went to Yale for two years, specializing in the romance language, leaving there
a PhD. His college course, however, was not completed in four consecutive years for the years '17, ’18, and part
of ’19 found him overseas. He was in the ambulance service attached to the French army and in the 18th
division of the army of occupation. In addition, he took a course in the University of Caen, France. As touching
his rank in the army, Professor Goldiere maintains his habitual retiring silence, but we are led to believe that it
could be nothing meaner than that of Brigadier General. After his term of service in France, he returned to Dartmouth
for his junior and senior years, and then went to Yale for his graduate work, coming thence directly to Davidson.

BUILDING ACTIVITIES INCREASE IN DAVIDSON

The past summer and this fall have seen a decided increase in building activities, both in the college itself and
in the town. The old Davidson post office, an out-of-date frame building much too small for the present needs, is
being replaced by a larger and up-to-date brick building. A new store building has been added to the list and
another remodeled to accommodate the New York cafe. Several new dwelling houses are also being built. The people of Davidson
are much pleased with the new hard-surface road from Charlotte to Winston-Salem. It is a wonderful improvement over the old
road and will be a source of much pleasure as well as a business convenience and profit to the property
owners of Davidson. Within the college itself, much construction is going on, made necessary at this time for the most
part by the destruction of Chambers building last fall. The two new dormitories, East and West, were ready for occupancy
at the opening of the school term. Also, there is a new and up-to-date central heating plant being built just
to the rear of these dormitories and adjacent to the laundry to furnish heat for the new buildings. This system
will also be connected with the old buildings. This should mean a great saving in heat and increase in efficiency.
As for Chambers itself, funds are now being raised to erect a larger and more beautiful edifice on its site.all
of which goes for the making of a greater Davidson.

EXTENSIVE PROGRAM FOR CHARLOTTE CLUB

The Charlotte Club, recently organized with a charter membership of 32, has started in a live manner this year by
laying many active plans for bringing Davidson into a closer union with her neighbor, the City of Charlotte. Outstanding among
these plans is the idea of sending several members of the club to the Charlotte High School, to speak to
the student body there, laying before them the ideals and advantages of Davidson. By taking this step, the club hopes
to increase the interest of Charlotte boys in Davidson, and in so doing, double their membership next year. This is
the first of many steps the club expects to take to bring more Charlotte boys to Davidson and hence increase
the interest of Charlotte people, which was aroused by “Davidson Day” at the recent Exposition in Davidson. Plans also include
a banquet to be held as soon as the football season is over, when all members of the club can
attend. As announced by the officers, this banquet will eclipse any such previous affair ever held on the “Hill.” This
is the first year there has been what promises to be a live Charlotte Club at Davidson. In the past,
there has been a club made up of all men from Mecklenburg County, but on account of the area which
they represent, they were unable to accomplish any big things for Davidson in Charlotte. The club, under the leadership of
Reginald Price, president, and Jimmie Trotter, secretary and treasurer, is going out after the bacon this year and results from
its activities should be heard from in the near future.

PANDEMIC SOCIETY CLOSES FIRST TERM

Since this week marks the close of a term of the Pandemic Society, very satisfactory reports from the standing committees
were heard by the house, which showed that the Pandemics are contributing a great deal to the literary activities of
the college. The officers for the coming term were installed. The president, W. H. Moore, in his inaugural address reviewed
the work which the society has done and appealed to the members to do even better work in the future.
The topic for debate for the evening was: Resolved, That representatives and delegates should obey the instructions of their constituencies.
The affirmative was supported by Jennings, Thompson, and D. W. Bethea, while the negative was upheld by Maxwell and H.
H. Hollingsworth. The judges decided in favor of the negative. J. I. Davis, in his oration, “Davidson Spirit,” compared the
spirit in the literary society to that shown on the football field. Ford gave a very interesting and varied report
on the current events of the week.

PHI SOCIETY HOLDS INTERESTING PROGRAM

The Phi Society held one of the most interesting meetings of this year last Thursday evening at 7:30. The debate
was especially good. The men on both sides showed good preparation and study. The affirmative was represented by White and
Cochran. Both of these men had good argument and forceful delivery. The upholders of the negative, Choate and Gudger, showed
good preparation and well-arranged arguments. The decision seemed to hang in a balance but the judges finally cast two votes
for the affirmative. This was the first meeting in which new men were on the program. R. M. McGirt delivered
an oration on “The Future of Davidson,” basing his talk on the development of Davidson in the last few years.
The critic announced that the program for the next meeting would be composed entirely of new men, urging them to
come prepared and make a good showing at the start.

DR. LINGLE TELLS OF TURKISH SITUATION

The International Club held an unusually interesting meeting last Tuesday night, October 10. Dr. T. W. Lingle gave a review
of the Turkish situation. He began with an account of the Greco-Turkish outbreak on the return of Constantine to the
throne of Greece at the end of the past war. Angora under Kemal Pasha was next shown. This led up
to a description of the present situation which has been brought about by the agreement between the Great Powers to
maintain the Bosphorus and the Hellespont as international waters. Because of the decision to allow the Turks to occupy Thrace,
America is confronted by the greatest relief problem she has ever faced. Thousands of Greeks have fled from Thrace to
Greece and from Smyrna to Corinth. These refugees are calling to America for help and America has agreed to do
her best. E. F. Bosch told of the economic and political situation in Cuba. He dealt particularly with the relations
of Cuba to the United States. Bosch was well qualified to speak on this subject as he could tell many
things from personal experience since Cuba is his home. After the program, the business matters of the club were taken
up. This consisted for the most part in the election of new members.

NEW ROAD DELAYED BY LACK OF MATERIAL

The Charlotte-Statesville road-building project is moving along very slowly, as viewed by an outsider. Recently, the construction company that has
charge of the building through the town of Davidson has started once more laying the tar surface on top of
the concrete base and the work is now completed within about a quarter of a mile of the center of
Davidson. The lack of material has held up the works for the past few weeks, it is understood. The construction
company’s tar-making plant is located at Cornelius and the tar surface is hauled from there in trucks to the place
where the work is going on. They are easily distinguished by the noise they make on passing through Davidson.

THE NEW CHAMBERS (Continued from Page One)

The Central building will be 80 by 112 feet in size and four stories high. The wings will be 50
feet in length and three stories in height, and will furnish offices for 20 or more teachers. The North building
will be three stories and basement and will be 64 by 112 feet in size. The first floor and basement
will house the department of physics, giving excellently lighted rooms, viz., three laboratories, two lecture rooms, dark room, office, and
supply rooms. The second floor will similarly serve the department of biology, and the third floor will have laboratories and
rooms for mineralogy and geology, and a great room for use as a museum. The South building, of the same
size as the North, will contain on the first floor the executive offices. These will consist of offices for the
president, class dean, treasurer, business manager, registrar, with their assistants and stenographers, together with a burglar-proof vault, and a large
room for faculty and board meetings. The second and third floors will be taken up with a splendid auditorium and
gallery. Since the fire destroyed the large auditorium, which so many will recall as a stately room of poor acoustic
properties, we have had only a small, inadequate room which by close crowding barely holds the student body of 500.
The new one will seat 1,200 and fill a lack we shall feel all the more when the State completes
the new concrete highway which runs the whole length of the campus and will put us within 40 minutes of
Charlotte on the one side, and Statesville on the other, with connections in every direction with the great system of
improved highways the State is now building. For the good of the college and to save it from serious danger
of loss in efficiency, the building cannot come too soon. One of the great leaders of our church, who thoroughly
knows Davidson and its work, says that in his opinion the church has no such pressing need at this time
as the need to erect this building on the campus at Davidson.
