THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

GAMBLE AND BURNEY were very much amused when he told the deputation program. The ministers DELEGATES TO SYNOD

At the meeting of the Presbyterian Synod of North Carolina held at Lincolnton on Wednesday, October 25th, the deputation work
of Davidson students was presented by W. A. Gamble and L. P. Burney. Each of the two representatives made the
most of the five minutes allotted to him to tell the Synod of the deputation service which about 100 Davidson
students are prepared to render to the churches of North Carolina and for which they only ask that the expenses
of each trip be paid. The deputation work of the Ministerial Band and the Christian Endeavor Training class was presented
by W. A. Gamble and that of the Volunteer Band by L. P. Burney. The trip was a great success
and eight deputation engagements were secured from various churches represented at the Synod. Immediately after the talks of the two
Davidson representatives, the Synod unanimously passed a resolution expressing their thanks to the students of Davidson for the great service
they are rendering to the church through their deputation work. The fact that Burney and Gamble used up only seven
of their 10 allotted minutes seemed to make a great impression on the members of Synod, and a very favorable
impression it was. The brevity of presentation, as well as the matter presented, had a big share in gaining the
entire goodwill of the Presbyterian ministers.

DR. CHAI SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER BAND

“Korea has a wonderful record of Christian work and great possibilities for more,” said Doctor Chai, student from Korea, in
speaking to the Volunteer Band last Sunday morning. Forty years ago the missionaries began their work in Korea in the
face of much opposition; but now, with the native sentiment favorable toward them, there are a half million Korean converts,
with their present number growing by leaps and bounds, he said. “Korea has a history dating 5,000 years back. She
had a high form of civilization, the first investigator about the torpedo being a Korean; but like the other Far
Eastern countries, she kept a closed door to foreign influence, and she is not abreast with Western civilization of today.
The missionaries, however, are producing a strong influence for good in a religious and social way upon this proud old
country. America has now 100 doctors and 200 evangelists at work, but these are still insufficient for the need.” America
has spent millions of dollars, but can that compare with the half million souls saved? Jesus said “that one soul
was worth more than the whole world.” The mid-week prayer meeting of the Volunteers is to be held in Phi
Hall Wednesday evening at 7:30 hereafter. A budget of $30 to cover the expenses of the Band was adopted. A
basketball game with the Ministerial Band was announced for Thursday evening at 8:30.

OGDEN AND PATTERSON SPEAK IN SALISBURY

Ogden and Norman Patterson went to Salisbury Sunday, October 22, on a deputation to the Presbyterian Church. During the Sunday
school hour, Patterson spoke about the little ones having to wear so many clothes in cold weather that if they
fall down they are not able to get up again. At the morning service, Ogden spoke on “Hearing the Call.”
Patterson’s subject was “The Joy of a Foreign Missionary.” He told about the summer resort, Kuling, which is the Montreat
of China, to which the missionaries retire during the hot months. He also told of the needs of China and
how we in America could meet those needs. There was a large number of young folks at the meeting and
they seemed much impressed. The night service was not strictly a deputation service. Patterson presided over the meeting and conducted
the singing, Ogden spoke on “God, Our Father.”

MINISTERIAL BAND HOLDS GOOD MEETING

One of the regular weekly meetings of the Ministerial Band each month is devoted to the discussion of the various
phases of deputation work. The second of these meetings held this year was led by Dunbar Ogden last Sunday. The
lively singing, followed by the interesting discussions, were a real benefit to the large number present. Those participating in the
meeting were W. A. Gamble, J. H. Grey, J. L. McLean, F. L. Johnston, P. B. Freeland, C. F. Monk,
T. L. Fraser, W. H. Sharpe, and C. R. Crawford. Ogden gave a report of the deputation to Salisbury, on
which N. G. Patterson and he went the previous Sunday. Gamble told of the recent trip Burney and he made
to the meeting of the Synod of North Carolina, where they represented the Davidson Ministerial Band, C. E. Training class,
and Volunteer Band. The Synod passed a resolution of thanks for the services of Davidson students in the matter of
their deputation work. The ministers were enthusiastic over the deputation work of these three organizations and many expressed their desire
that speakers be sent to their churches this year. In a brief talk, Fraser dealt with the subject of the
relation social functions should have to men on deputation trips, and what kind of entertainments they should attend the night
before they speak. Monk gave eight valuable suggestions as to how to win the sympathy of and make a strong
appeal to the audience. McLean told of the object of the C. E. Training class in its deputation work. Its
policy is that of cooperative service. Johnston, the new chairman ofthe Ministerial Band deputation committee, made a few announcements pertaining
to men going on trips. Attention was called to vital statistics found in the “Speaker’s Handbook” and elsewhere. Some of
them were: In 1920 the ratio of candidates for the ministry to Presbyterian churches in North Carolina was one to
six. In South Carolina, it was one to eight. The United States has 75,000 vacant pulpits.

TRADITIONS DISCUSSED AT BIBLE CLASSES

The Bible classes that met last Wednesday night discussed the topic: “How Can Campus Traditions Be Formed and Reformed?” Tradition
is one of the most powerful forces working with the minds and hearts of men. It shapes the mode of
men’s living and even the kind of food that they eat and the clothes they wear. A person’s religion and
his politics are often influenced by tradition. A tradition is one of the easiest things to establish; there are many
things on our campus that testify to traditions. It is quite obvious, but the danger of this, take for instance
the paths that network the campus, each was once an unmarked stretch of grass, but the more times it was
crossed the easier it became to cross it again. A tradition is almost as easy to break as it is
to make, if some resolute person will set his face against it. There are dangers in following traditions. The danger
of a bad one is that there is a chance that the spirit may be forgotten and a mere empty
form left to which we adhere. This was the fault of the Pharisees in the time of Christ. He rebuked
them for worshipping with their lips and not with their hearts.

C. E. TRAINING CLASS PRESENTS SPEECHES

At the Christian Endeavor Training class meeting held last Sunday, a model deputation was given by J. N. Bracey and
B. U. Ratchford. They imagined that they were speaking to a group of young people that had never heard about
Christian Endeavor before. Lee McLean introduced them, as the imagined pastor of the church, Bracey presented the history of Christian
Endeavor and its purposes and principles. He also outlined the different forms of the C. E. pledge. Ratchford explained the
work of the officers and the duties and organization of the most important committees. Ernest Milton led a critical discussion
of the good and bad points of the speeches. The members of the class are getting together a set of
books and booklets as a circulating library for the class. The members are volunteering these so that there will be
no expense attached. A joint Volunteer Band and Christian Endeavor class deputation will visit Harrisburg and Rocky River churches north
of Charlotte next Sunday. Also, a number of the members are planning to attend the district convention Saturday and Sunday.

NEW ROAD RAPIDLY NEARING COMPLETION

After an interval of some time, the road forces are again at work on the Davidson stretch of the Charlotte-Statesville
highway. The concrete base for this road was laid several months ago and has been used for travel since then.
Now the top coat of Topeka asphalt is being put down and the road will soon be completed. The contracting
firm of Lampton and Burks, of Louisville, Ky., has charge of the work. The asphalt and other ingredients of the
finishing coat are heated and mixed at Cornelius. From there the mixture is hauled in trucks to the place of
construction, spread on the road, and packed while still hot. The result is a beautiful, smooth roadway that is as
good as the best of city streets. The work was started on October 2nd, about a mile north of town,
and has been progressing at the rate of 400 to 450 feet per day. With favorable weather conditions, the road
should be completed to the south edge of town within the next 10 days or two weeks. While the work
is going on, all travel between Davidson and Mooresville is detoured by the Beattys Ford road.

Next week will see the number of undefeated elevens cut down quite a bit for Georgia meets Auburn, Tennessee-Vanderbilt, North
Carolina-Tulane, and Centre-Kentucky in the feature contests of the day. Alabama-Penn, Florida-Harvard, and Guilford-Haverford give little hope of a victory
in an intersectional contest for the South this week.

TOO MUCH LUCRE

One night last week while the commissary misers slept and dreamed of their sinful past, the gold which they had
thus far accumulated bore down so heavily that the floor fell in and was nearly carried away by the heavy
rain which was falling at the time. Hugh, thinking it a dream, continued to sleep but Henry, tearing his hair,
exclaimed, “Mine Gott, we're ruined.” Then suddenly waking to life Hugh gargled, “Crowell will replace it next Wednesday and we
can again press forward.”

DAVIDSON CAFE

Smiley’s Remodeled—You won't know it
Well Prepared Food—The best money can buy, and an expert cook
Well Served—Table and counter service
Our Specialty—Real old-time club sandwiches

Art Craft Theatre
The House of Good Pictures
FELLOWS COME UP, YOU ARE WELCOME
Mooresville, N. C.

YOUNG MEN’S CLOTHING CO.
KELLY C. GRESHAM, Mgr.
Mooresville, N. C.
Quality and Price on SUITS and OVERCOATS

Mooresville Drug Co.
We Appreciate Your Patronage
FELLOWS Let’s Patronize Our Neighbor, Mooresville MERCHANDISE and See
Mooresville, N. C.

W. M. FREEZE
GOODMAN'S
The Rexall Drug Store
Students in our store.
