4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
H. H. SMITH
Managing Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Literary Editor
Alumni Editor
Publicity Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, W.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. I.
BROWN, C. V.
HESTON, W. M.
MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
CALHOUN, M. P.
JONES, R. R.
TULLER, C.
COX, W. M.
KNOX, W. I.
WALTHALL, D.
ELKINS, L. D.
LACY, T. A.
WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T.
MAUZE, E. H.
WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
R. C. WOOL
L. A. TAYLOR
E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. FAIN
P. C. HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Who said the Wildcats weren’t wild?

Those students who still hold to the ground-hog theory of weather prediction are having a hard time explaining the balmy
days of the last weekend.

The results of the campaign for Hangchow College are very gratifying so far. Let’s carry it through to a still
better conclusion.

“Don’t feel sorry for yourself. Feel sorry for the folks who live with you.”

The musical clink of horseshoes and the thud of horsehide on leather are common sounds on the campus these afternoons.
Spring must certainly be on the way.

Do you ever stop to think that the man who hasn’t a definite purpose in college is not very apt
to have one in later life?

Make good.

For the second time in as many years Davidson has had the pleasure of entertaining a delegation from Columbia Seminary,
and we wish to take this opportunity of expressing our appreciation of their interest. The songs by the quartette were
thoroughly enjoyed by all who heard them sing, the services held by these men were indeed of an inspiring nature,
and the impression which they have left on the campus will be felt for many a day to come. May
we have the pleasure of many more such visits.

Don’t make excuses.

“Success comes in cans. Failures in can’ts.”

THE DAVIDSON COLLEGE BAND.

A great deal has been said in the columns of The Davidsonian about the Wildcats and their deeds of valor.
Football, basketball, baseball, and track have all come in for their share of publicity, and the stars of each sport
have been lauded in turn. Even the lowly scrubs have received their just share of the praise, and comments on
the work of our cheerleaders have not been lacking. This has been deservedly the case, and we do not feel
that any less honor could rightfully have been paid these men. There is one body of men which has not
received any recognition it has so richly merited, however, and it is to draw the student body’s attention to their
services that this editorial is written. Do you ever stop to think what a difference it would make in the
spirit of our rooters, and the corresponding change in the morale of our teams if the college band were not
there? No, because by the very faithfulness with which it has played at all athletic contests it has made its
presence a matter of fact occurrence. The band is always on hand to increase the pep of rooters and players
alike by its rendition of the college songs, and to entertain with other music at the times of least excitement.
It is largely through its endeavors that the enthusiasm of the students is kept at the highest pitch on these
occasions. Such results were not attained without effort. The average man looks on without thinking of the long hours of
practice spent by the band members in preparation for this work, and of the effort required to learn such music
as is rendered. He does not think of the fact that even while the game is going on the band
is working while he is free to watch every play that is made. Indeed, he seems to take it for
granted that the playing of a musical instrument is a gift acquired without trouble and a natural pleasure to the
musician. A little thought should be enough to convince anyone of the absurdity of such a belief. These men are
showing the real Davidson spirit of unselfish service, and their work demands recognition. Hats off to the Wildcat Band!

Open Forum

“WHY?”

This year there have been more failures than in any previous year of the college. Not just a few more.
The average number has not been raised just a little but there have been failures by the wholesale, if you
please. Some men have failed in every ticket they are carrying. Others have failed in all but one, and many
have failed in half their tickets. Fellows, “these things ought not so to be.” It is true that more Freshmen
than upper-classmen failed, but are they altogether to blame? One man, a man who is making good in his work,
has said that the faculty should have remembered that since Chambers burned we have been crowded to the extent of
inconvenience, and should have been more lenient with us. Things seem harder than usual this year, instead of easier. But
can the faculty afford to lower the standards just because we are crowded? Are they to blame for all the
failures or even for any of them? No, they are not. Then why all these failures? Only one answer can
be made: a lack of study on the part of the so-called students. But how is a man to study
in a crowded dormitory? All the rooms in the building are not crowded and where men are studying they are
glad enough to have another man join them. Then, too, it has been arranged that the classrooms in Shearer Hall
may be used as study halls by those seeking a quiet place. An allusion was made to the large number
of the new men who failed this term. They looked to the upper-classmen and patterned after them in forming their
habits of study and leisure, and from them they learned that wonderful science of “bull artistry.” Fellows, that is our
besetting sin. Can we estimate the amount of work which might have been done in those hours and evenings which
we have spent at this most pleasant pastime? For our own and our neighbor's good, let's eliminate some of this
“bull” and either go to work early every night, or to bed—or “Minnies,” when we are not studying.

A. B. Artist.

Every individual who makes any headway in his chosen field must struggle against the current. The fact that a man
is a success does not indicate that he has never chanced to meet adverse conditions, but that he met and
overcame them numberless times and is alwaysReady for the combat. The only people who do not encounter these difficulties in
their work are those who fail when they reach them and drift along in the tide with the debris. We
cannot train to overcome adverse conditions by shying around them. If we could, there wouldn’t be near as much room
at the top of the ladder. —Selected.

TIME TO RECEIVE ANNUAL DRAWS NEARER DAY BY DAY

The editors of the 1922 Quips and Cranks have been working industriously on the annual during the days since examinations.
The typewritten copy is nearing completion and many other details are being finished. The annual will be here about the
middle of May, it is thought at present. All of the material will be in the hands of the publishers
within the next few days. W. I. Knox was in Greensboro and Winston-Salem, and R. K. Shaw and R. L.
McLeod were in Charlotte during the past week soliciting ads for the annual.

Reports to the Association of American Colleges show that there has been an increase of 50 percent in the salaries
of presidents and faculty members since 1913-1914.

The Chinese Students Christian Association in North America has about 1,500 members. The student Y. M. C. A. in China
has 174 associations and 19,000 members.

With Other Colleges

Y. W. C. A. ENTERTAINS WITH VALENTINE PARTY

Charlotte, N. C., Feb. 15—The Y. W. C. A. entertained the student body at a Valentine Party on Saturday evening,
February 11th. Valentine decorations were used and many novel games were played. The Y. W. C. A. always entertains the
boarders several times each year and this was the annual Spring entertainment. The party was in every way a big
success.

LENOIR WILL DEBATE ELON

Hickory, N. C., Feb. 15—Lenoir College has entered the inter-collegiate debating field and is to meet Elon about Easter. The
speakers for Lenoir are: Messrs. J. D. Tickle, J. L. Norris, E. R. Lineberger, and H. J. Rhyne, of the
Chrestonian Society.

DR. WHALING AT QUEENS

Charlotte, N. C., Feb. 15.—Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Louisville Seminary, will make several talks to the student body this
week. Dr. Whaling is well known all over the South. He has had wide experience as an educator, first as
professor of Philosophy in the Southwestern Presbyterian University, then as professor of Theology in Columbia Seminary. At present, he is
professor of Systematic Theology and Apologetics at the Presbyterian Theological Seminary at Louisville, Ky.

UNIQUE LECTURE AT MEREDITH

Raleigh, N. C., Feb. 15.—Mr. C. C. Gorst, eminent nature lover, lectured to the Meredith faculty and students on Saturday
evening, February 4th, on the subject of “Birds.” This was an especially interesting and unique lecture, Mr. Gorst imitating perfectly
the songs and calls of many species of birds. He also gave two very charming whistling solos.

ODDS AND ENDS

Meredith—In order to replenish the Y. W. C. A. treasury, an up-to-date tea room has been opened in one of
the “Y” rooms.

Meredith—A “Math” Club has recently been organized under the direction of Prof. E. F. Canady, head of the “Math” Department.
This is the third club formed this year for the purpose of giving the advanced students opportunity to do profitable
as well as interesting research work, the others being a Chemistry Club and a Classical Club.

Meredith—The work on “The Oak Leaves,” the Meredith annual, is rapidly nearing completion. It will go to the press in
a few days.

INTERESTING DOPE ON STADIUMS

American universities which have completed athletic stadiums within the decade, or have provided for their construction, include California, Ohio State,
Yale, Illinois, Stanford, Chicago, Washington, Princeton, Kansas, Pittsburgh, and the City College of New York. Of these, Yale’s stadium cost
$400,000 and seats 70,000; Washington spent $600,000 and can seat 60,000; California is spending $900,000 to seat 60,000; Illinois is
planning a combined stadium and amphitheater to cost $2,500,000; and Ohio State raised $1,250,000. No stadium yet completed has been
large enough to meet the immediate demand for seats. These facts, together with the recent discussion by President Lowell, of
Harvard University, on the relationship of inter-collegiate athletics to the university, indicate two opposite trends which are likely to clash
in the future. —(I. P. A. N.S.)

WOULD IT WORK HERE?

In its successful campaign for a new stadium, the University of California put itself in the situation, not of asking
for donations but of selling seats in the stadium for the next ten years. The unit of payment to the
stadium fund was $100, each cash payment purchasing $100 in scrip, redeemable in Stadium tickets at the rate of $10.00
for the next ten years. —(I. P. A. N.S.)

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

THAT ALL-AMERICAN TEAM

Our choice for the 1921 “All-American” football eleven is:
L. E.—Tube of Colgate.
L. T.—Stick of Williams.
L. G.—Duell of Hamilton.
C.—Gang of Tufts.
R. G.—Bust of Lafayette.
R. E.—Eyes of Brown.
R. T.—Graves of Washington and Jefferson.
Q. B.—Tomb of George Washington.
L. H.—Hart of Maryland.
R. H.—Purchase of Louisiana.
F. B.—District of Columbia.
—Hamilton Life.

Every state in the Union, Alaska, Hawaii, Porto Rico, the Philippine Islands, and 42 foreign countries are represented this year
among Harvard’s 6,073 students, according to figures made public by the university.

State College, Pa., Jan. 26.—Page the oldest football rooter in captivity. He is Andy Lytle, retired farmer, who has spent
his entire life thus far on his farm adjacent to State College. Andy is 82 years of age and is
still going strong. Always an ardent football fan, Andy started to follow the fortunes of the Penn State eleven back
in 1887, 34 years ago, when the only trip was to Lewisburg, 50 miles away, where Bucknell was played. He
has made nearly all the trips since that time, reaching the pinnacle in 1912, when he traveled over 6,000 miles
in following the team.

DELIVER US—

From the Glad Girl Philosophy.
From birds who feel it necessary, every time a victrola plays, to glide about the room embracing some imaginary beauty.
From party calls by bootleggers.
From poems scattered through movie magazines.
From cloth-top shoes.
From conceited imbeciles who admire the pathetic philosophy of “I am the master of my fate.”
From pictures of bathing beauties.
From empty mail boxes.
From impromptu visits by ministers and book agents.
From Great Goats who are continually quoting from Fitzgerald, Service, and Oscar Wilde.
From bills in general.
From women who recite poetry.
From women who can’t.
From scrawny women.
From fat women.
From beautiful women.
From all women.
From all mention of women.
From litanies such as this.
Ah, men!
—Yale Record.

We laugh at the prof’s jokes,
No matter what they be,
Not because they’re funny jokes,
But out of policy.
—The Student.

Sing a song of six-pence,
Have ambition or die;
To try to grow a mustache,
Our daring young boys try.
When many weeks are over
And people have the stares,
For on the youth’s upper lips
Are about seven sickly little hairs.
—Selected.

“Ever study a blotter?”
“No, foolish.”
“Very absorbing thing.”
—The Lawrentian.

The U. S. government maintains 135 schools in Alaska with an expenditure of about a half million dollars and an
enrollment of 6,899.

R. C. Aiken, of the class of ’22, who has been out of school for the past year on account
of ill health, has re-entered for the coming term.
