THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

DELTA PI KAPPA HOLDS INTERESTING MEETING

The Delta Pi Kappa fraternity held its regular meeting Friday night in the Bachelor’s Hall. R. R. Jones was taken
in and read a paper on “The Comparative Strength and Weakness of North Carolina College Newspapers.” L. D. Elkins then
gave an original human interest story. Discussion was taken up of the extension work of the fraternity. A program committee
was appointed and a progressive list of talks relative to journalistic history and principles are to be given during this
year. The members are interested in getting active newspaper men to come to Davidson and speak to those interested in
such work, and temporary plans were outlined at this meeting to get such men here in the future. The Delta
Pi Kappa fraternity is composed of a group of the outstanding journalistic men of the college. The work of this
group is pressing forward with great strides and the aim of each member is more enthusiastic and energetic work for
this year. The members believe they have a good thing in their organization and plan to share it with others.

HALLOWE’EN RESPONSIBLE FOR MANY QUEER LIGHTS

Owing to some rapacious caprice of various members of the college wrecking crew headed by Mr. Stiles on their annual
Hallowe’en rampage, many noteworthy endeavors of certain members of the Greater Davidson Club came to naught. Monday night, the 31st
of October, under the mystic light of the crescent moon, a noble and daring band of loyal Davidsonians ventured abroad
upon the campus bent upon deeds which they hoped would add materially to the wealth of college tradition, vastly glorify
the revered name of Davidson College, and amuse those few members of the faculty who have a keen sense of
humor.

Working in feverish haste, guided by a peculiar sense of the appropriate, a magnificent throne was established in the neighborhood
of the old well, whereon was set with great pomp and circumstance, in a lordly and graceful posture, Doctor McConnell’s
favorite skeleton. With still more feverish haste, with drawn faces and tormented olfactory nerves, several ardent pursuers of the alchemists’
science mingled potions near the seat of French wisdom, and then effected a strategic retreat to a safe distance where
they soothed their offended nasal appendages by counter irritation. The greatest of all their accomplishments, however, was the skillful contrivance
of a magnificent float on the southern portico of the library building. The structure of the float was a borrowed
wagon, maneuvered to its unique environment with the greatest circumspection and dispatch, whereon was set a large cylindrical iron receptacle
for antiquated documents and manuscripts. The decorating of the float was exceedingly appropriate, and was executed with consummate skill and
propriety, and in accordance with the most aesthetic dialectic taste of the present generation. From end to end, from wheel
to wheel, from corner to corner, the embellishments were a uniform pure white. As the fervent workers were putting the
last few finishing touches to their ethereal work of aesthetic grace and symmetry, they suddenly paused. They beheld approaching along
the dim pathway a figure shrouded in a long robe. Nearer and nearer it came, stalking in a slow and
dignified, and yet in a very determined manner. They gazed spellbound with fear for an instant, then one of them
sneezed. The spell was broken, and in the twinkling of an eye they fled to the four corners of the
campus as John D. Laws strolled up and surveyed their work with a critical eye.

D. PHI SOCIETY ANNOUNCES SPONSOR FOR ANNUAL

The subject for debate this week was, Resolved, That the United States should recognize the Soviet government of Russia. The
affirmative was upheld by Gibbs and O’Connor against Price and Franklin, who were appointed to take the places of the
debaters who were absent. The house acted as judges and the decision was awarded to the affirmative by a majority
of only one vote. In the absence of the first critic, Hudgins, the second critic filled his place. The 13th
of November was chosen as the date upon which the Pandemics will hold their preliminary Junior-Senior debate. The president announced
that Miss Elizabeth Thames, sister of F. C. Thames, ’23, had been chosen as the annual Society sponsor for the
Pandemics.

Many of the yards and lawns in Davidson are showing great improvement and are a credit to those who take
care of them. It seems a pity, however, that some of these fine yards have their beauty marred by ill-kept
places adjacent.

AESCULAPIAN CLUB PLANS FOR THE YEAR

The disciples of the famous old Grecian god of medicine, Aesculapius, or the members of the Aesculapian Club, are looking
forward to a program that will be really helpful as well as interesting this year. The club is composed of
men who have chosen the profession of medicine as their life work. After a lapse into inactivity for the past
two years, the Aesculapians have effected a complete reorganization and have set out to accomplish some really worthwhile things this
year. The reorganization was started by the election of officers of the club. Frank Wildman was elected president; J. B.
Sloan, vice-president; Joe Baldwin, secretary; and Harry Wildman, treasurer.

This year plans have been made to have members of the club speak on subjects of practical value to future
medical students, and then later in the year, outside men of high standing in the medical world will address the
club. The club has started the year off in a rush.and has experienced phenomenal growth. At the beginning of the
year, there were but five members, but since that time, 33 have been initiated, making a total of 38 now
in the club.

MAGAZINE STAFF PLANS CHANGE IN MAGAZINE

The magazine staff met on the 26th of October to discuss plans for the Davidson College magazine for the coming
year. It is the intention of the staff to make this year’s magazine much more lively and interesting than it
has ever been before and to improve upon it in every way that they can. Among other things, it was
decided that each issue of the magazine will contain between 48 and 62 pages, almost three times the size of
last year’s issues. They plan also to change the cover design somewhat. The first issue will come out about the
first of December, and all material for this number must be handed in at once.

ANTHOLOGY OF SHORT STORIES TO BE PUBLISHED

Hark! Ye literary light of Davidson! An anthology of the best short stories appearing in the collegiate magazines of the
State this year will be compiled in the latter part of next spring. A valuable prize will be awarded to
the writer of the best story. The board of judges will consist of persons high in literary circles outside of
the State. As far as it is known, North Carolina is the only State in the old U.S. that puts
on such a contest. Why should Davidson not lead the State and thereby lead the country? Now is the time
to begin. Get down to deep study, rake up odd reminiscences, brush off the slumbering imagination, and start at once
turning in your stories to the Davidson College magazine. At a meeting of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, the
originator and promoter of this move, a special committee was appointed to attend to such details as compiling the anthology,
securing the judges, and arranging for the prizes. This committee is composed of Alice Lowe (Meredith), Nell Craig (N.C.C.W.), W.F.
Cash (Wake Forest), and R.S. Pickens (Carolina).

COMMISSARY DAZZLES STUDENTS WITH LIGHT

Charlotte hasn’t got anything on Davidson. The beautiful Queen City with all its wonderful electrical display, intermittent advertisements, great white
ways, and bewildering dazzlement of artificial brilliance need not think for one moment that it can put Davidson in the
shade. Which of us happening in the neighborhood of the commissary at night has not been astonished and dumbfounded by
the marvelous display of electrical splendor? The managers of the Commissary cannot be commended too highly for their achievement. In
addition to the ineffable embellishment to the campus that their contrivance has proven itself, it is really a stroke of
remarkable advertising genius on their part. Certain individuals have maintained that to have such a wonderful light illuminate only an
immaculate bulletin board was unspeakable economic folly, but that only shows the shallowness of their intellects and the grossness of
their aesthetic senses. It has been conceded that the Washington monument, which, as we all know, is an unadorned pillar
of solid masonry, with no trivial decorations to detract from the substantial grandeur of itself, is the most sublime of
all monuments. Similarly, the bare simplicity of the advertisement is its greatest asset. Would not anyone relish infinitely more, “hot
P-nuts” sold at the base of a white bulletin board, majestically devoid of all superficial and frivolous graphical decorations, than
ordinary goobers sold elsewhere?

ROOSTERS FIGHT FOR RIGHTS OF SENIORITY

Disobeying the laws of the seventh day, Red Brass and Domineck Bill Joe met in mortal combat last Sunday behind
the barn of Doctor McConnell to decide the supremacy of the flock. For some time the feathers flew and the
blood ran freely. After a while, things cleared up and the action became impeded to the extent that the spectators
could determine the winner. As the bell rang calling the hungry patrons of the trough to dinner, each expressed his
opinion that Domineck Bill Joe had won a pressing victory over Red Brass. It was generally believed, too, that the
fighters would look better on a dinner plate than out in the professor's barnyard setting such bad examples for the
erstwhile reverent student body of Davidson College.

SCRUB AND FRESHMAN TEAMS PLAY THIS WEEK

Because of changes made necessary by N.C. State canceling her contract, the Davidson scrubs and Freshmen eleven will swap their
fields of action this coming weekend. Instead of the Freshmen playing the N.C. State Fresh in Pinehurst, as originally planned,
the second teams of the two colleges will meet at the resort. The Wildcat Yearling in turn will take the
scrubs’ place at Wilmington and clash with the Wilmington Light Infantry. The scrub game at Pinehurst will be played on
Thursday before a large Sand Hills fair crowd. It will be the third time the teams have met and a
close and interesting game is sure to result. In 1920 the affair ended in a 6-6 deadlock, but last year
the Raleigh lads carried off a victory. The Presbyterian eleven has not been defeated this year, however, and expect to
turn in another victory that will more than make up for the setback of last year. On Armistice Day, the
Freshmen will meet the strongest independent team in the State when they tackle the Wilmington Light Infantry. The eastern lads
have many former college and prep school stars in their lineup, and while they will probably be a little out
of shape, they are sure to render a good account of themselves. The Davidson first-year men got away to a
bad start this fall, but judging by their victory over the strong Oak Ridge eleven, they have struck their real
stride now and will step lively in their remaining games. Captain George has been smoothing many wrinkles out of his
charges each afternoon and will present a dangerous lineup against the national guardsmen Saturday. Fight! Wildcats, Fight!

SCRUBS SCORE IN FINAL MINUTES OF LAST HALF

Coming from behind in the last few moments of the game, the Davidson scrub team overpowered Monroe High School, 7
to 3, in a struggle replete with thrills, in Monroe last Saturday afternoon. The Red and Black team missed most
of their breaks in the first three quarters, carrying the ball the length of the field three times only to
lose it inside the 10-yard line. In the first quarter, Monroe jumped into the lead by drop-kicking a field goal
from the 25-yard line. The game was witnessed by a large and noisy crowd. Monroe had a fast and heavy
team and gave the scrubs a hard fight before going down in defeat. They were ably assisted by the referee
who imposed many penalties upon the Wildcat team. Monroe has one of the best high school teams in Western Carolina
and will be seen on Sprunt Field this weekend. The scrubs threatened often in the early quarters. Covington made the
longest gains of the day when on two occasions he broke through the high’s line for 35-yard gains. The line
smashing of Ballard and the passing of Robbins also contributed much valuable yardage. But on one occasion Davidson fumbled on
their one-foot line and a few moments later they had a pass intercepted inside the 10-yard mark. In the final
period, the Wildkittens started their successful march down the field. Beginning on their own 20-yard line, they carried the oval
straight down the field for a touchdown, Ballard driving the pigskin over. Hodgin kicked goal. Ballard, Green, and Covington were
the outstanding backfield stars while Briggs, Mog##, and Hodgin did stellar work in the line.

Furman seems to have come back again after their defeat by Richmond and last week the Hurricane blew Erskine out
of the way by the decisive score of 67-6. P.C. only beat Erskine 19-0 and Elon turned them in 10-0,
so that makes another score to put on the Furman side of the ledger. Hear Bishop.

P.S.—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical experience behind every
pair.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N.C.

WE’LL TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT LATER
