THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

HERE AND THERE

Dr. William Mack, 1883, whose home is at 272 Flatbush Avenue Extension, Brooklyn, New York, is one of the most noted law writers of the day. Under his editorship, the Encyclopedia of Law and Procedure, comprising around 50 large volumes, has been prepared.

Dr. James C. Peden, 1910, is located at 303 Palace Building, Tulsa, Oklahoma.

Paul P. Brown, 1903, is assistant cashier of the American National Bank of Asheville, N.C.

Leopold Chambliss, 1918, is doing excellent work in the Publicity Department of the Guaranty Trust Company of New York City.

James William Thomson, 1911, is in the life insurance business in Charlotte, N.C.

Rev. Robert King, 1906, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Kingsport, Tenn.

S. D. Brice, ex-1921, is assistant cashier of the Marion Junction (Alabama) State Bank.

John W. George, 1886, attorney at law, is located at Dallas, Texas, 410 Slaughter Building.

Rev. T. C. Bales, 1910, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Portsmouth, Va.

W. S. Royster, 1899, is the vice-president of the Royster Guano Company at Norfolk, Va.

Thomas S. Plunkett, 1899, is a banker and rice planter (Pinehome Farm) at Elton, La.

Frank H. Baker, 1917, is bacteriologist, chemical pathologist, and roentgenologist at Clifton Forge, Va.

Dr. A. L. Blanding, 1878, is located at Fountain Inn, S.C.

Rev. R. T. Gillespie, D.D., 1904, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Louisville, Ky.

Dr. W. E. von Glahn, ’11, is pathologist at the Presbyterian Hospital, New York City, and professor in Bellevue Medical College.

E. B. Wright, ’19, is cashier of the American Express Company with offices in Paris.

Steve Simmons, ’11, is a major in the United States Army and directing head of the American Hospital in Honolulu.

Lieutenant A. M. Siler, ’12, who has been with the Army of Occupation in Germany, has recently been situated at Governor’s Island, New York. But Mr. Siler is now resigning his commission and is giving up army life to begin a successful business career.

Mr. W. C. Rouk, ’16, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Ellerbe, N.C.

Lacy McAllister, '20, and John Schenck, '22, were referee and umpire of the Winston-Salem and Charlotte High School game in Winston-Salem Saturday.

We Were Glad to See You at the Game, Mr. Alumnus

The Davidson-Carolina game in Charlotte last Saturday furnished a setting in which old acquaintances were renewed and present ones were perpetuated. Gathering from far and wide, alumni came to see the Red and Black triumph once again over the eastern horde, but sure of the fact that they would see a team fighting every minute for the old college. It is a magnet that steadily draws an alumnus back to the scene of combat, whether once before he, himself, had torn up the turf through a field of blue and white warriors, or cheered another on to a victory. Nevertheless, we were glad to see such a large number in the stands, and our only regret is that we could not mention everyone present. Rather than attempt such an endless task, we wish to thank them each and all for displaying so much interest in their Alma Mater, who is proud of them all for their accomplishments in life.

FORMER DAVIDSON MAN HEADS FLORIDA VETS

Captain Henry F. Martin, of the class of '15, was a veteran of the World War, having a splendid war record and still bearing war wounds. He is planning to make a canvass of all Florida claimants with the aid of a medical officer so that examinations may be given to all the disabled men whose claims warrant the attention of the office. Captain Martin is making his headquarters in Jacksonville, Fla., where a short time ago he met all of his employees and discussed the affairs of the sub-district with department heads and went over the work of the office carefully with the former sub-district manager. Captain Martin has returned from Atlanta, where he has had the benefit of a period of observation at the district veterans’ bureau office there.

Much of Captain Martin’s boyhood was spent in Jacksonville, Fla., and as soon as he finished college he returned to that town to take a position in the law firm of Cockrell and Cockrell, where he remained until April, 1917, when he went away as a member of the naval militia. In May, 1917, he was transferred from this organization to take an examination for provisional appointment as a second lieutenant, and was then assigned to Company G, 47th Infantry, Fourth Division. He went overseas in May, 1918. He reached the front in July in the Marne-Aisne section, and engaged in the second battle of the Marne, and the offensives at Saint-Mihiel, and in the Argonne where he was wounded on October 12, 1918. During the second battle of the Marne, the Fourth Division outfits were the first to cross the Vesle River after some of the hardest fighting on the western front. His captain was seriously injured and the two other lieutenants were killed, Captain Martin assuming command of the outfit.

His wound came while he was fighting in the Bois de Forest near Breilles in the Meuse-Argonne offensive. A piece of shrapnel severed the nerves in his right arm between the elbow and the shoulder, causing a disability from which he has not recovered. After several months in a base hospital, he secured permission to return to his regiment, remaining with them until the regiment returned to the United States in August, 1919, and was demobilized shortly afterward. Captain Martin was cited in general orders for personal bravery in action. Captain Martin was retired as a second lieutenant in 1921 for wounds, and in 1922 was made professor of military science and tactics at the Pottsville High School in Pottsville, Penn. He was relieved from active duty to take the sub-district manager's appointment for the district of Florida, going on the inactive list as a captain. Immediately after his appointment had been confirmed on August 11th by Colonel Forbes, director of the United States Veterans’ Bureau, Captain Martin barely escaped death near Washington while riding in a car which was thrown from the road and wrecked. Miss Viola James, of Pottsville, Penn., his fiancée, was also in the car, but received slight cuts and bruises only. Three days after his release from the hospital, Captain Martin was married to Miss James at Pottsville, and after a short honeymoon, they went to Atlanta. A better-qualified man for this office could not be imagined from the standpoint of either the disabled veterans or claimants.of the board, or the bureau itself. Captain Martin, through his own disabilities, will be able to sympathize and co-operate with the disabled men, and his experience as an attorney, together with his knowledge of military paperwork, should admirably fit him to represent the veterans’ bureau.

D. HITHER AND THITHER DID THE MINSTRELS JOURNEY

Now for a long time the lair of the Wildcat had been without amusement, and they did long for something with which they might quench their thirst for pleasure. And lo, there did come into the den of the Wildcats on the 14th day of the 11th month of Enoch’s reign a band of minstrels who did bear the name of J. C. O’Brien’s Famous Georgia Minstrels. And great was the rejoicing in the camp when the Cats did learn of the approach of this Ethiopian horde. Yea, it was even about the hour of high noon when the Ethiopians did sally forth with pride into the Main street of Davidson to make known the merits of their tribe. And there was with these minstrels a band of men who did play upon brass instruments and did make much jazz music. Lo, did they hold even the students of Davidson spellbound with their melody until he who did play the trombone was wont to make a mighty discord.

Now, these black diamonds were much like unto the Freshmen for they did each wear a coat and hat of green, and did strut their stuff even as Fresh Doughton and Fresh McDonald. And as the band did march down Main street, lo, one of the Wildcats did throw a mock-orange which did roll swiftly down the street and did almost strike one of the dusky jazzhounds senseless, since it did hit him squarely upon the heel. Now when they had assembled upon the public square they did play and sing and dance to the merriment of the throngs which did gaze steadfastly upon them. Yea, even Monroe was seized by one of the company and they did force him to dance, too. Now as the hour for dinner approached, the parade did form and prepare to march back to the tent opposite the depot. As they came nigh unto the corner where is located Miss Minnie’s sandwich shop, lo, a barrage of mock-oranges and brickbats did meet them. Very wroth were the dark-skinned sons of Ham, and they did go to their tents in hot anger.

And there did come nigh unto Davis, which is called Sam, one of the Ethiopians to secure from him a guarantee that his tribe would not disturb the performance. But lo, such would not be given by the noble leader of the Wildcats. Then great was the fear of the sons of Ham. Yea, they did tremble with fear lest there would be no peace in the tent that night. And when the sun did incline itself very low in the west they did band them together upon their automobiles and go forth unto the city of Concord. And lo, those of the Wildcat lair who did come from the State of Georgia did clothe themselves in sackcloth and did cover their heads with ashes. Yea, it was set aside as a day of mourning by Bill Baker and Bascomb Sorrells, fellow Georgians, because the minstrel did leave without giving its performance.

D. TO HAVE AND TO HOLD FEATURE LAST WEEK

A very good adaptation of Mary Johnston’s “To Have and to Hold” was shown at the movies Saturday night, featuring Betty Compson and Bert Lytell. Miss Compson played the role of a pampered lady of James I’s court, during the time of the struggle of the Jamestown settlement in America. Disgusted with the crimes about the court, she volunteers with a number of English maidens to become wives to the settlers in America. When the ship arrives in America, she is repulsed by men in the settlement and while fleeing from the advances of one man seeks protection from another through their marriage. Bert Lytell, a virtuous captain in the settlement, is the one whom she has appealed to, and he takes her to his plantation home. There, their association culminates in a deep love for each other. But meanwhile the king’s favorite, who was in love with the runaway lady, has arrived in Jamestown and demanded the young lady. The captain is put in chains, but aided by his servant, he escapes and together they rescue his wife from the English vessel as well as kidnap the English favorite. During the storm which they encounter, they are carried to a desert isle where starvation faces them. Through strategy, the captain becomes leader of a gang of pirates who have happened ashore and later, during an encounter with an English vessel, the party is rescued, and taken on to England. There at the king’s palace in London great preparation is made for the grand wedding of the king’s favorite to the captain's wife. Through the help of another noble, the captain is permitted to fight for his bride with the groom-to-be, as sport before the king. In the encounter, the king's favorite is wounded so horribly that the king orders him away, and the captain and his wife are again reunited with the king’s blessing.

DAVIDSON

NONE TOO SMALL

Agents Wanted To Represent Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company Ocean Accident and Guaranty Company

W. E. PRICE General Agent CHARLOTTE, N.C.

If You Have Money, Want It. If You Need Money, Have It: We Morris Plan Bank WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

RUNNING A CAMPAIGN THAT HAS AN AIM FOR PROGRESS

We Can Sell You Insurance for Rain That Pays Each Claim With Promptness

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13) INSURANCE DEPARTMENT INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte N. C.

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank CHARLOTTE, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President ANDERSON, Vice-President W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

What Are Your Banking Needs? Do you need investment advice? Are you interested to learn how we can serve you and your family in matters of trust? Would you like to open a savings or a checking account? Are you thinking of insurance?

The Wachovia, Its Staff, and Its Officers Are at Your Service.

The WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO. NORTH CAROLINA Raleigh Salisbury High Point Winston-Salem Asheville

NONE TOO LARGE

On the Square Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.