March Eighth-Twelfth

THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 24, 1922.

Vol. IX. No. 21

DELTA THETA CHI SOCIAL FRATERNITY IS ORGANIZED

The formal announcement of the organization of Delta Theta Chi local fraternity of Davidson College was made last week when it received the recognition and approval of the faculty. A temporary hall has been secured in the residence of Mrs. Brown, on South Main Street. Plans are already under way for the establishment of a permanent chapter hall on the campus, and it is hoped that by the beginning of the next term it will be completed and ready for occupancy.

The charter members of the fraternity are as follows: J. W. Phillips, '22; S. D. Story, '22; G. N. Neel, '22 (pledged); J. W. Baldwin, '23; W. S. Buchanan, '23; H. S. McCallum, '23; J. B. Sloan, '23; S. R. Sloan, '23; H. H. Wyman, '23; J. V. Hickson, '24; Paul Price, '24; W. E. Prothro, '24; P. J. Story, '24; C. A. Young, '24.

State Y. M. C. A. Meeting Is Held in Greensboro

John W. Pontius, General Secretary, Is Chief Speaker.

The North Carolina Y. M. C. A. held its state meeting at Greensboro on February 14th and 15th. At this meeting eight schools were represented, a delegation of 26 men being present. The principal speakers were Dr. H. E. Rondthaler, president of Salem College, who also acted as chairman of the meeting, and John W. Pontius, general secretary, of Columbus, O.

The conference proper began on Tuesday at 2:15 p.m. The song service which opened every session of the conference was led by Seth Perkinson, of Asheville. Dr. Rondthaler then conducted the devotional exercises. After a business session, an address was made by H. C. Snead, general secretary, of Lynchburg, Va. His subject was, “Association Activities—How Organized and Conducted.” After another address by Mr. Pontius, the meeting retired from the O. Henry Hotel to the Y. M. C. A. building, where the delegates were treated royally at a banquet. Remaining in this building, the meeting was continued and an address was given by Charles R. Towson, international secretary, New York.

The meeting opened Wednesday morning at 9 o’clock. Following the devotional exercises, the report of the committee on the state committee’s report was heard. Another address was then delivered by Mr. Pontius, and R. H. King, executive secretary, Southern Region, made the closing message. The meeting was adjourned and the student conference began with Dwight Chalmers as chairman.

The student conference first had a general discussion of the work in the college “Y’s” in the state. From this discussion it was found that the “Y” is making commendable progress in the colleges. After a special luncheon, Harry F. Comer, of Carolina, outlined the elements of an average “Y” program. B. S. Basing, of N. C. State, then spoke on “Organization for Bible Study.” Deputation work was next discussed by Comer. This was one of the strongest points stressed by the conference. The importance of attendance at the Blue Ridge conference was pointed out by King and strong delegations were planned. Dr. Lindeman, who has recently spent three months in Europe, made a strong appeal on “European Student Relief.” Dr. Rondthaler made the closing address, taking as his subject, “Opportunities for Service.” He stated that the outlook for the ensuing year is bright.

Delegates from Davidson: Dwight (Continued on page 6)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Boys, let’s pass those re-exams! You deserve your rest, basketeers!

Le Cercle Francais Plans Again For French Lecture

Eight New Men Taken Into French Circle.

On the night of Friday, February 17, Le Cercle Francais met in the Gamma Sigma Epsilon room, and initiated eight new members into the organization. The new men readily adapted themselves to the situation, and burst forth on various subjects in the “most beautiful and expressive of all languages,” as J. T. Smith characterized French. R. Doubles gave an interesting discussion on Frederic Barat, while J. W. Simpson made an eloquent impromptu speech. Paul Price recited a poem, which was received with applause. J. B. Roberts and W. Z. Bradford furnished the humorous part of the program, consisting of a series of spicy jokes. James McCutcheon and L. H. Roberts were also among those initiated and contributed to the program with short French selections.

The circle discussed the plausibility of having another lecturer visit Davidson this spring in the same capacity as M. Villemin, who proved such a success last year. Instead of getting the regular lecturers of Alliance Francais, the circle decided to try to secure the services of the French pastor at Valdese for the occasion.

Professor Currie Speaks at “Y” on Hunting Theme

Things Really Worth Hunting for Are Discussed.

Prof. A. Currie addressed the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday on the subject, “The Hunter’s Mistake.” Basing his talk on Isaiah xliv:14-19, it was conclusively shown that today men are making the same mistake made by the old hunter referred to by Isaiah. His address was very interesting and helpful. A vivid picture of Isaiah’s hunter was first given. “After roaming the woods for a day in search of game, at nightfall he hewed down a tree, built a fire with its branches, and warmed himself. He roasted some of his game, ate, and was satisfied. But this glow of massive satisfaction soon faded. It was a temporary thing. Upon the approach of some wild beast or some other impending calamity, this heathen hunter hastily carved the image of a man of the residue of the tree and fell down and worshipped it.” (Continued on page 6)

Wildcats Win and Lose in Two Local Court Battles

Defeat Elon 53-25 and Lose to Guilford 45-26.

Elon Game.

Playing their first home game in ten days, the Wildcats displayed the best form of the season Wednesday evening and took revenge for the 34-30 defeat of the previous week at the hands of Elon by capturing the long end of a 53-25 score. A large crowd saw the Wildcats revenge themselves on the Elon College lads and take home the bacon by as one-sided a score as the much touted

The Architect’s Idea of What Our New Dormitory Will Look Like

Contractors Preparing to Start Work on Dormitory

New Central Heating Plant to Furnish Warmth.

Representatives from the Blythe and Isenhour Contracting Company were on the campus during the past week surveying the ground preparatory to starting the work on the foundations for the new dormitory. Since securing the contract about two weeks ago this company has been busy obtaining quotations on and awarding contracts for stone, brick, cement, steel, and other materials to be used in the construction. When interviewed Mr.Blythe gave assurance that the dormitory would be completed before the first of next September and would be ready for occupancy when the 1922-23 session of college opens. To accommodate the new dormitory, a new central heating plant will have to be built this summer, and plans looking to this end would be recommended to the trustees at their meeting last Wednesday. Representatives of the Warren-Webster Company were recently on the campus securing information that will enable them to draw plans and make suggestions for a new heating plant to provide for the immediate needs as well as for all proposed buildings. The new dormitory will be modeled along the latest designs for college buildings and will differ somewhat from any now on the campus. It is to be a fire-proof brick building four stories in height, with a basement in addition. The only wood that will be used in the construction of this building will be for making the floors, doors, and window frames. The front will resemble the old Chambers building to the extent that four columns will support the roof. This new dormitory will be larger than any building now on the campus. It will contain over 70 rooms, accommodating 118 students. It is to be built directly east of Georgia Dormitory and will add a great deal to the attractiveness of dormitory row and to the impressiveness of the campus as a whole.

National Meet of O. D. K. Is Held in Pittsburgh
J. C. Bailey Represents Local Chapter.

The national convention of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity was held with the Gamma Circle at the University of Pittsburgh on February 15. John C. Bailey was the Davidson representative.

Junior Class Is Preparing For Record In Speaking
Orations, Plays, Baseball, and Social Life Arranged.

The committee on Junior Speaking, under the leadership of S. M. Davis, has almost completed the program for the event. The committee has petitioned the faculty to change the date from March 21-24 to March 29-27, but this matter is, as yet, unsettled. On the first night, the Dramatic Club will entertain. Three one-act plays will be given: “Miss Civilization,” by Richard Harding Davis, will be presented by the class of '25; “The Boor,” by Chekhov, will be the product of ’24; while ’22 will give “The Zone Police,” also by Richard Harding Davis.

On the next afternoon and night, the Junior orations will be given. All the Juniors are to speak in the preliminaries on March 13, 14, and 15. On this night, too, the Junior class will give an entertainment in the gym.

Two baseball games will lend an added attraction, while the general reception is always enjoyed by everybody. This will be on a different order from the customary one. All the fraternity halls are to be thrown open to faculty, student body, and visitors. Everybody will be welcome at every hall. This promises to be one of the best speakings ever held at Davidson. All that is necessary to make it a complete success is an abundance of girls. Let everybody ask at least one girl and then nobody will be lonesome, and this is sure to be the best speaking held in years.

Davidson Wrestlers Lose to Trinity By Two Points
Match Score Tied But Locals Lose On Points.

The Davidson wrestling team, which has been under the tutelage of Coach Harry Spangle, went down in defeat at the hands of the wiry and agile mat artists of Trinity last Saturday, by a score of 12-16. From start to finish, the contest was spectacular and hard-fought. The matches were evenly divided, but by points, Trinity nosed the Wildcats out. Captain Cromartie, of Davidson, gained a decision over Hardaway. Cromartie was at all times on the offensive and was never in danger, but was unable to pin the shoulders of Hardaway, who displayed rare “counters.” This was the 110-pound class. The next match went to Davidson when Bob Cochran secured a fall over his opponent.

WHAT’S DOING.
Thursday, Feb. 23—Phi Society, 6:45 p.m. Eu Society, 7:00 p.m. Metrophilian Society, 9:00 p.m. Pandemic Society, 9:00 p.m.
Saturday, Feb. 25—Movies.
Sunday, Feb. 26—Volunteer Band, 10 a.m., C. E. Training Class, 1 p.m. Ministerial Band, 1:45 p.m. “Y” Meeting, 6:15 p.m.
Monday, Feb. 27—Basketball: Wake Forest at Davidson. Leaders of Mission Study Classes, 9:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Feb. 29—Mission Study Classes, 9:30 p.m.

BASEBALL BEGINS NEXT WEEK!