THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS QUERY FOR MARCH 23.
Resolved, That the ratification of amendments to the Federal Constitution should be by direct vote of the people; a majority of two-thirds being necessary to ratify.

BOOKS BY VACHEL LINDSAY ADDED TO LIBRARY SHELVES
In the past few days several new additions have been made to the library. There are several interesting books by one of America’s modern writers, Vachel Lindsay. Among them are “General William Booth Enters Into Heaven,” “The Golden Whales of California,” “The Golden Book of Springfield,” “Adventures While Preaching the Gospel of Beauty,” “The Chinese Nightingale,” and several others. The Davidson students and the public are to have the pleasure of hearing Mr. Lindsay deliver several lectures at Shearer Hall, on April 26th. This will be one of the greatest treats of the year.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATERS ARE SLINGING THE OLD TAURUS
As is usual at this time of the year, the Freshmen and Sophomores of the Literary Societies are getting ready for the big scrap, the Fresh-Soph debate. Much interest has been displayed by some of the members, and although there has not been an over-abundance of aspirants, there has not been a lack of them. From each of the two societies which have chosen their teams, there were four men out, and the contests were hot and scrappy. From the Metrophilians, Wharton, W. Z. Bradford and J. M. Carr were chosen to represent the society. From the Pandeinics, Cox, Walthall and H. B. Price, with McIlwane as alternate, were chosen. The Eumeneans selected their team on the night of March 13th, as follows: L. D. Elkins, Ralph Smith, H. M. Moss, with A. M. Martin as alternate, but the Phi’s have not yet decided on their representatives. To the best debater in each society, a medal is to be given, and the two societies who win out in the preliminaries will debate for the inter-society championship.

WILLIAM S. HART STARS IN “TRAVELING ON” PICTURE
William S. Hart, in “Traveling On,” was shown recently. This picture shows the struggle of a missionary and his wife in a little Arizona town of the good old days before fences came in style. This preacher was a reformed knight of the road and in desperation over lack of funds for his church building went back to his old tricks and held up a stage. He took the money of Dandy McGee, his bitterest enemy. Dandy was already determined to run him out of town in order to have the preacher’s wife in his power. He now decided to have the preacher hung on suspicion of robbery. This left things up to J. B. (Bill Hart). J. B. wanted the preacher’s wife also, but he was so touched by her pleading for her husband that he took the blame for the robbery himself. Of course, such a consummate master of a .44 could not be taken, but after killing McGee he rode away on his spotted horse. The last scene shows him riding along reading the Testament the preacher’s little girl taught him to read. This was a fairly good picture as a whole, but much of it was supposed to take place at night during an awful storm. This storm was very realistic, but also straining on the eyes. Next Saturday’s picture is to be Betty Compson in “The Law and the Woman.”

“Fit Three.”
Jim Hendrix, a Freshman you know,
Who roomed up in old eighty-four,
He grabbed his fresh cap,
But like a poor sap,
He left his good watch on the floor.

GLEE CLUB HAD GREAT TRIP TO GASTONIA MARCH TENTH
Last Friday, through torrents of rain and a sea of mud the Glee Club went to Gastonia, where they gave a program at the Central High School. Although handicapped through the illness of several of its members, the club gave a splendid program. The concert had been well advertised and despite the rainy weather a large crowd was in attendance and responded most graciously to each number. The work of McLeod, Bogart, and McGeachy was outstanding, while the work of Francis Northrop at the piano could scarcely have been surpassed by Paderewski himself. The numbers by the chorus were rendered in fine style, being full of harmony and “pep.” The vocal selections by McGeachy, McLeod, and Jones did not fail to make a decided hit and called for repeated encores. Mention must also be made here of the fine renditions of “old breakdowns,” etc., by the mandolin and guitar group. This feature of the program was received most enthusiastically of all. At the conclusion of the concert a reception was given the Glee Club by the Ladies Auxiliary of the First Presbyterian Church, delicious refreshments consisting of ice cream and cake being served. Bob McLeod says the first six plates of cream were fine! The club left Gastonia on its homeward journey about 11 o'clock, arriving on the hill in the wee sma’ hours of Saturday morning.

DOCTOR PORTER PREPARING VALUABLE ROCK COLLECTION
With the burning of Chambers there went to destruction a most complete and valuable collection of minerals, rocks, and fossils. This, combined with the revival of the Geology course, made necessary a new collection of rocks for a geological laboratory. Dr. Porter, of this department, brought with him a small but complete collection of Texas cretaceous minerals. He has also obtained a systematic collection of rocks and fossils from many parts of the world. Those studying Geology know how complete and interesting are these collections. Dr. Porter is now working to complete a collection of the minerals and rocks of North Carolina. The cost of the laboratory will be great as the specimens are of the most valuable and instructive type available. A complete set of geological maps would enable the students to locate the rock divisions more readily and would be appreciated very much by the Geology department. Here is one suggestion for the Seniors in making their gift to the college.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HAS AN INITIATION AND A FEED
On last Friday night, the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity held its Spring initiations. Three men of the Junior class were duly revealed the mysteries, and initiated into the rites of the order. The trio to receive this distinction were H. H. Smith, N. R. Currie, and C. F. Wildman. All three men are industrious and enthusiastic chemists, having high scholastic standing for two and a half years. The initiation ceremony was followed by a “feed” given in honor of the neophytes. At the next meeting of the organization, the second paper of the series on the interesting bio-chemical topic of Vitamin will be delivered. Also the biography of some great chemist’s life will be presented.

WILDCAT BASEBALL TEAM.
(Continued from page 1)
and Pleasants look good for infield positions, but there are a host of others who may develop into first-class men. For the outfield positions, W. J. Richards, Erwin, L., and McLeod seem to have the inside track on other candidates, other than the letter men in the outer garden.

SENIOR CLASS MAKES PLANS AT FEED FOR COMMENCEMENTAfter the show last Saturday night, 80 Seniors gathered in the Physics room in the gymnasium for one of the most enjoyable meetings in the history of the class. The evening began with a riotous attack upon the refreshments provided and was prolonged until a late hour by jokes, speeches, and word battles of every description. A part of the plans made for Commencement will be of interest to all, as many new features will be introduced this year. The Seniors decided to give a play on Wednesday night, the proceeds to go to the class gift fund. After the play, a big bonfire will be lighted in front of Chambers, with each member of the class contributing, with all due solemnity and ceremony, the book which he hates most. The crowd will then go on down to the reception in the gymnasium. There was much discussion of a number of other stunts for Commencement, and plans were formed to establish distinctive customs and styles for Seniors. Six or seven proposals were made for the class gift, and those which were deemed most practical were referred to a committee for further investigation. The occasion was a thoroughly enjoyable one throughout. The discussion was animated by jibes and horseplay between the rival factions, in which Miller, McLeod, and Knox showed up as shining lights.

D.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY IS GETTING BUSINESS SETTLED

Since the Metrophilians left the Phi’s, they have found that there are many things necessary for a society which they had always taken for granted before. Plans for all these things were made last Thursday evening in Phi Hall. Every item was discussed at length and barely had one thing been settled when a new need would arise. Motions and amendments flew thick and fast. The Fresh-Soph debate preliminaries were arranged, and plans for the society commencement were drawn up. A committee was appointed to select all the medals, since it has been decided to give four this year. These are: Fresh-Soph declaimer’s, Fresh-Soph debater’s, Junior-Senior debater’s, and the Essayist’s. The regular program was postponed for one week in order to give time for the business. The men who were on for this meeting will be on next week.

D.

SPRING BRINGS REVIVAL OF HORSESHOE PITCHING GAME

With the warm spring weather, horseshoe pitching once more reigns supreme. John Keith started things off by depositing a couple of pegs between the barracks. Keith is master of this sport, vying with the famous Jackson of Kansas City for scoring honors. Others were quick to follow his example and now in whatever direction one may look, the conventional pegs loom up on the horizon. The student body now reverts to the time of Socrates and Euripides when they used to pitch quoits at the noon hour long, long ago. Pitching horseshoes is rightly a favorite sport, for it is a man’s game with an ancient lineage of an aged and democratic nature. So proficient have the various members of the student body become that they might be termed the “pitchinest boys in these parts.” There is no doubt that in an intercollegiate contest the Wildcat team could walk away with the honors of the peg world, defeating their opponents as slick and clean as Willie’s Sunday School face. Behold the agility of McCallum! See him drop the shoes around the peg with the unerring certainty of a hungry boy connecting up with a piece of apple pie. Then look, if you will, with favor on the form of Guthrie. His is the perfect horseshoe pitching form. Heel touching the peg, his knee slightly bent, slowly he advances the right hand, raising the shoe until it is level with the right eye. Through the aperture, he sights the peg, flexes the wrist and—Presto! another ringer. All this is done while the spectators gaze in awe and admiration. To the famous William the Conqueror, we offer profound thanks for instituting such an honorable and exhilarating sport, for was it not he who first invented horseshoes?

ATHLETIC NEWS.

COACH HENGEVELD VALUABLE AND HIGHLY-REGARDED MAN

Fred W. (Dutch) Hengeveld graduated from Davidson in 1918, having had the honor of captaining two teams, winning his monogram for three years in basketball, and four years in baseball. He was known throughout the South as a wonderful athlete and a clean sportsman. Three years ago, the college authorities wisely chose him to come back to his alma mater and coach both the quint and the nine. Since his return, both these branches of sport have attained higher levels than ever before, due to his untiring efforts to produce teams which are imbued with the old-time Wildcat fighting spirit, of which he himself is so great a representative. Coach Hengeveld’s ready smile and his unfailing good humor and courtesy have won for him a place in the heart of every Davidson man. Here’s to a true gentleman and man!

D.

WILDCAT BALL TOSSERS TO LOCK HORNS WITH ALL-STARS

Coach Hengeveld’s frolicking Wildcats will make their debut Saturday afternoon when they cross bats with the Mecklenburg County League All-Stars. This will be a battle royal between the clean fielding, hard-hitting, Red and Black Machine and a picked bunch of old-timers who handle a bat like it was a toothpick, and who can still show the way to many a younger aggregation. The admission, which will be 25 and 15 cents, will go to benefit the Davidson-Cornelius Post of the American Legion. Surely, no one will begrudge the two bits they will have to put out when it goes to such a worthy organization, and they will see a ball game which gives promise of being a thrilling, hard-fought contest. Several old Davidson stars will do battle against their alma mater on Saturday. Among those appearing on the line-up of the All-Stars are Currie, Barnette, and Caldwell. Probable line-ups for Saturday are as follows:

All-Stars. Position. Davidson.
Barnhardt Catcher McMillan
Barnette Crawford

(Continued on page 5)

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal, and interest.

SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.

NONE TOO SMALL CHARLOTTE, N. C. NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00

W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL. D., President
Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia
Oldest Theological Seminary in the Southern states. Young as the youngest in its progressive methods. A Theological Seminary that makes preachers. 42% of present student body from Davidson College. Catalogue and information upon request.

Basketball, Tennis, & Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros. RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
A. L. Fael, Mgr.
Phone 902