THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 5, 1922.

Watch Out.
Visitor in Rumple—“Does Sydenstricker, a student, live here?”
Fresh Canthrell—“Well, Sydenstricker lives here but I thought he was a night watchman.”

Speeding Along.
When you move quickly you're “fast.”
When you don’t move at all you're “fast.”
When you dissipate you're “fast.”
When you don’t eat you “fast.”

Women may be a puzzle, but men are not willing to give them up.

A Dissertation on Girls.
Girls are members of one of the most popular sexes. They are proof-positive that evolution really does. The girl who
used to worry whether her petticoat showed is no more. Neither is the petticoat. Short skirts, like bank loans, draw
a high rate of interest but are often a poor investment. Girls are one of the excuses for darkness. Girls
are a collection of legs, arms, and torso and vary in beauty according to the relative proportion of these parts.
Girls are the cause of colored glasses, prosperity, poverty, posterity, telephones, bankruptcies, mortgages, murders, suicide, lives, lies, paint, rouge, powder,
fashions, thefts, choruses, morals, models, hair pins, bigamy, divorce, marriage, hermits, dates, boudoirs, love nests, young men’s fancies, “Police Gazette,”
“Cuties,” “snakes,” dances, and bust notices. Some girls are gold diggers. They deserve the degree of “Bachelor of Heart’s!” They
play “Kisses” on your mouth organ when you're flush and pass you by when you're broke. Dancing, without girls, loses
its cheek-to-cheek. Even Diana carried a quiver on her shoulder! It’s a great life but, as the French will have
it, “One Weakens!”

“Hazel is engaged.”
“Who is the fortunate fellow?”
“You mean, “Who is the fellow with the fortune?”

A Chance.
Bevo Davis—“I don’t believe I have a friend in the world.”
Pat Kimsey—“Here’s a chance to make one. Lend me five dollars.”

FOR SPRING
Cluett, Peabody & Co, Inc.

Mississippi.
1921—“Where Mississippi flows.”
In April, 1922—“Where will the darn thing flow next?”

In August, the lazy “My heart is with the ocean” cried the poet rapturously.
“You've gone me one better,” said his sea-sick friend as he took a better hold of the rail.

Dr. W. L. Porter is offering a summer course in zoology and geology. Those interested in summer work should see
him at once.

WHITE-DUCKS
HURD & PRICE
7 South, Barracks

Say Fellows!
Why don’t you let “Bevo” Davis handle your SHOE REPAIRING FOR Mills Shoe Store Statesville, N.C.

WARD sport oxfords are worth seeing. Particularly good are our Scotch grains imported direct from Martin’s o’Glasgie. And the prices
are moderate as always. Shown by A. M. SHINNON at 4 Georgia Hall May 12 and 13.

John Ward Men’s Shoes
General Offices: 121 Duane Street New York City
Stores in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Philadelphia

DIG UP A DIME FOR TAG DAY, MAY 15th.

A MERRY DRAMA.
Act IV—Kangaroo Kids.
Scene: The same, third floor Georgia, back. The time: April 12, 1922, some time in the afternoon. “Mack” Lennox and
“Bill” Carroll are taking their ease.
C—I say “Mack”, have you read yesterday’s New York Times?
L—Sure thing. Why?
C—Did you notice that full page Clapp ad over about the middle of the paper?
L—Check—pretty good ad, tallied pretty well with our advertising psychology dope.
C—Old E. Clapp must have been a pretty conscientious old duck, judging from that ad.
L—Yea bo! He'd make one of these sanctified buddies look like a sailor on shore leave.
C—Possibly—fromWhat was said I gather that the Clapp workmen today are pretty skillful and that they take time to build
worthily. That’s a rare quality among American manufacturers.

L—But say “Bill,” do you remember that funny little picture up in the left-hand corner—what was it—can’t seem to remember.

C—Kangaroo, wasn’t it?

L—Believe so.

C—Kangaroo hides tan into a very fine leather—soft yet durable, in fact into an ideal shoe leather.

L—I begin to see light—Clapp makes shoes from kangaroo hides.

C—Indeed, sir, the accuracy of your observation is only exceeded by its profundity.

L—And, sir, may I congratulate you on your flow of eloquence; but to come nearer home—I’m going to need a
pair of oxfords soon, and I wouldn’t mind trying a pair of Clapp’s. Wonder where I could find them ’round
here.

C—Ed Mellon, in Charlotte, handles ’em, and Jimmy says he has a complete line—he was down last week.—(Adv.)

(To be continued next year)

ACADEMY

THE McDONALD TRIO
Keith Vaudeville

JACK GOLDIE PROGRAM
“The Black Spasm of Joy”
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday

RAND AND WEST
May 4th, 5th, 6th in “New York to Nome”

BABCOCK AND DOLLY
OVERTURE “On the Boulevarde”

PATHE NEWS
LYONS WAKEFIELD AND COMPANY

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
“Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor,
peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel
Second Floor
Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT

THE RALEIGH
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
Charlotte’s Best
The Hotel of Comfort
Cafe J. T. Matthews, Prop.
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
221 W. Trade St.

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six percent. We guarantee title, principal, and interest.

SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Prof. (after several failures to answer his question): “Next.”
Gentry (waking up)—"Haircut and shave.”

Take It From The Air

Not only music, but news, speeches, messages of every sort, are today being picked out of the air.

“How has this come about?” we ask. The new impetus given to radio development may be definitely associated with the
development of the high power vacuum tube, for that made broadcasting possible. And the power tube originated from a piece
of purely theoretical research, which had no connection with radio. When a scientist in the Research Laboratories of the General
Electric Company found that electric current could be made to pass through the highest possible vacuum and could be varied
according to fixed laws, he established the principle of the power tube and laid the foundation for the “tron” group
of devices.

These devices magnify the tiny telephone currents produced by the voice and supply them to the antenna, which broadcasts the
messages. At the receiving end, smaller “trons,” in turn, magnify the otherwise imperceptible messages coming to them from the receiving
antenna.

Great accomplishments are not picked out of the air. Generally, as in this case, they grow from one man’s insatiable
desire to find out the “how” of things. Scientific research discovers the facts. Practical applications follow in good time.

General Electric Company
Schenectady, N. Y.
