THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 21, 1921.

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame No. 3 WILLIAM LEE YOUNGER, EX-’19

D-Basketball. D-Baseball. D-Track. D-Football.

William Lee Younger, of Lynchburg, Va., the only athlete to win the D in four branches of sport at Davidson, was a member of the class of 1915. Playing right end on the Wildcat grid team which held Georgia Tech 21-7, he was selected on the All-South Atlantic eleven; in basketball, he was rated as one of the best guards in the State; on the famous Wildcat nine of '16 he played left field; and by his high-jumping ability, he made the track team. The last three years of his college career were spent at V. P. I., where he continued to shine. “Monk” is the first and probably the last Freshman who will win four monograms.

Never has the right wing been guarded more effectively than when Monk held down the position. On the defense, he was a wonder and rarely did any opposing backs get around him. In the Furman, Carolina, and Wake Forest games, his uncanny ability to nail forward passes led to many a touchdown. On the hardwood floor, Monk was equally at home and few forwards were able to get away for open shots. Playing against one of the best forwards in the State, he held him to a couple of field goals while caging the ball five times himself.

In the diamond pastime, Monk occupied the left garden and was certain death to all flies in his territory. Although having a low batting average, he hit in the pinches and was an important cog in the machine which won 14 out of 17 contests. Monk won his fourth letter in the Clemson meet when he cleared the bar at 5 feet 6 inches, winning first place. After finishing his course at Virginia Tech, Monk coached at Hampden-Sydney, turning out the best teams they had in several years. He now is back at V. P. I. coaching the Smithies’ grid teams.

RED AND BLACK GOLF CLUB OUTMATCHES GASTONIA MEN.

The Davidson Golf Club played the Gastonia Club here on Wednesday, April 12, in a closely contested match. This was the first match of the spring and a large number of spectators watched the contest. Five representatives from the Gastonia Club were here, and three matches were played. In the first match, Gray and Miller, of Gastonia, played Bachman and Gracy, of Davidson. Although neither Bachman nor Gracy played their usual game, they defeated their opponents 12 up. In the second match, Henry Myers played Hamner, of Gastonia. This was a closely contested and very interesting match. Myers played excellent golf, but the game ended with Hamner one up. The third match saw Covington and Rankin, of Gastonia, defeated three up by Bradley and DeArmond, of Davidson. This also was an interesting match and won the day for Davidson. The Davidson Club will uphold their name Thursday on the Gastonia links.

INTERESTING TOURNAMENT TO SELECT TENNIS TEAM.

One of the best tennis tournaments ever held at Davidson is drawing to a close. After a week of hard fighting, 11 of the 16 entrants have been vanquished. The 16 contestants were divided into two groups of eight men each. The champion of the first group plays the champion of the second group, and the winner of this match plays the Varsity champion, at which time he is supposed to meet his fate. The men who have thus far retained the right to slash away at the tennis balls in this tournament are: Harry Price, Staley, Henry Myers, Vic Brown, and H. M. Morris.

In the first group, Harry Price defeated Beall on the first go-round by the score of 6-4, 10-8. Harry’s next victim was Fraser, who bit the dust to the tune of 6-3, 6-2. Harry was going strong, and Fraser soon saw that this Freshman was not so easy to handle as the one he had defeated earlier in the tournament in two love sets. Staley is another Freshman still in the race, and he is determined to give a good account of himself before accepting defeat. His next match will be with Henry Myers, and this promises to be a battle royal. Henry is playing at his best this year and is making a strong bid for a place on the Varsity.

In the second group, Junebug Price, after a hard-fought contest, had to bow before the victorious racket of Vic Brown by the score of 12-10 and 6-4. Without a great deal of trouble, H. M. Morris defeated Trotter, who made such a good record in the fall tournament. He then proceeded to do the same thing for Moss by the one-sided score of 6-0 and 6-0. Morris in his next game will clash with Vic Brown for the championship of the second group. The championship of the first group lies between Price, Staley, and Henry Myers.

While these preliminary matches were being fought out, the Varsity was not idle. They, too, must decide their champion. The first match between Ed Cunningham and Bradley was a real treat to see. It was a great battle and Bradley was considerably relieved after he had won the deciding set, 10-8. Louis Wilkinson was the next to go down before the deadly accuracy of Bradley by the score of 6-0, 6-1, 6-1. The championship now rests between Curtis Ormond and Bradley.

RED AND BLACK MACHINE (Continued from page 1)

Carolina: ab r h po a e
McDonald, ss --- 2 2 3 4 0 0
McLean, 2b --- 2 0 1 4 0 0
Morris, F., 3b --- 4 0 0 1 3 0
Shirley, 1b --- 3 0 1 14 1 0
Wilson, lf --- 4 0 1 2 0 0
Morris, R., c --- 4 0 0 2 0 0
Ramsey, cf --- 4 0 0 1 0 0
Montgomery, rf --- 4 0 0 2 0 0
Gwyn, p --- 4 0 0 1 0 0301 360 Motaligecstoesceeee ces 31 2 62714 0

Score by innings: Davidson ----------- 000 000 000—0 Carolina ------------- 000 000 02x—2

Summary: Two base hits—Shirley, Morris, R., Lewellyn. Three base hits—McLeod. Total bases—Davidson 4; Carolina 9. Sacrifice hits—L. Erwin, Wilson. Earned runs—Davidson 0; Carolina 0. Double plays—Boushee, McMillian and Crawford. Walked—by Boushee 4. Struck out—by Boushee 3; by Lewellyn 4. Umpire—Brandon.

N. C. State Game.

N. C. State took the second game of the series from the Wildcats Wednesday by the score of 5-3. The game, because of the see-saw nature of the score and the heavy hitting, was full of interest. The Red and Black team outhit the capitol lads three to two and their defeat was caused by their failure to hit when hits meant runs.

Davidson scored first in the initial lap on Brown’s double to center and Mac Erwin’s single. State knotted the count in the second on a two-bagger and a brace of neat sacrifices. The next three innings breezed along in runless style although each team had several chances to score. State stepped into the lead in the sixth on a double, a single, and an error. The Wildcats took their turn at leading in the seventh. Luke Erwin pumped one to center for a pair of twin sacks and scored when McPherson hopped one down the first base line. McPherson took third and Brown scored when Lassiter errored the latter’s rap. M. Erwin squeezed the lanky pitcher home with a perfect bunt. This state of affairs was anything but pleasing to Hartzell’s crew so they scored two runs in their half and grabbed a stranglehold on the lead. Another run came across in the eighth. The Wildcats had numerous chances to score but the necessary punch was lacking. Ten of the Red and Black players were left stranded on the sacks, six of them languishing on the hot corner.

In defeat the Davidson team looked good. Every man on the team, including pinch-hitter Brice, came across with a hit, and each of the Erwin brothers did double duty, wielding a wicked lash. McPherson showed his best form of the season and served up a classy assortment of benders from the firing line.

Box score:

Davidson
ab r h po a e
Brown, lf 5 1 1 0 0 0
M. Erwin, 2b 5 1 2 2 4 0
Crawford, 1b 5 0 1 7 2 0
McLeod, lf 5 0 1 2 0 0
Pritchett, cf 4 0 1 1 0 0
Freeman, 3b 4 0 1 0 4 0
McMillian, c 4 0 1 6 1 1
L. Erwin, ss 4 1 2 1 4 0
McPherson, p 3 1 1 0 6 0
Brice, x 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 40 3 12 24 20 3

x Batted for McPherson in the ninth.

State
ab r h po a e
Ruth, lf 3 1 1 0 0 0
Norwood, cf 4 0 0 1 0 0
Johnson, rf 4 1 2 2 0 0
Redfern, ss 4 1 1 2 4 0
Holland, 3b 4 0 0 0 5 0
Lassiter, 1b 4 1 2 16 0 1
Blue, 2b 3 1 1 0 3 0
Putnam, c 3 0 0 5 0 0
Allan, p 4 0 1 3 1 0
Totals 32 5 8 27 16 1

Score by innings: Davidson ----------- 100 000 200—3 State ---------------- 010 001 21x—5

Summary: Two base hits—McLeod, L. Erwin, Redfern, Lassiter, Johnson (2), Ruth, Brown, Crawford. Stolen bases—M. Erwin, Pritchett, McMillian, Ruth, Redfern. Sacrifice hits—M. Erwin, McLeod (2), Holland, Lassiter. Left on bases—Davidson 10; State 7. Hit by pitcher—Blue. Walked—by McPherson 3. Struck out—by McPherson 5; by Allan 5. Umpire—Kerney.

(Continued on page 3)

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE, DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

No matter who made it---come here.

New Spring Clothes

If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no matter who made it---come here. We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are better. In the cut of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat, the hang of the trousers, also the difference between hand tailoring and machine work, select your spring clothes.

TATE-BROWN CO.
White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED — Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

New Society Brand Clothes for spring have just come in and now is a good time to select your spring clothes.

TATE-BROWN CO.
Charlotte, N. C.
18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT
SPORTING GOODS
Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros. RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faul, Mgr.
Phone 902

NONE TOO SMALL -- NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC. OVER $1,000,000.00
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

CAMEL.
One Size Package
All our skill, facilities, and lifelong knowledge of the finest tobaccos are concentrated on this one cigarette—Into this ONE BRAND, we put the utmost quality. Nothing is too good for Camels. They are as good as it’s possible to make a cigarette. Camel QUALITY is always maintained at the same high, exclusive standard. You can always depend on the same mellow-mild refreshing smoothness—the taste and rich flavor of choicest tobaccos—and entire freedom from cigaretty aftertaste. And remember this! Camels come in one size package only—20 cigarettes—just the right size to make the greatest saving in production and packing. This saving goes straight into Camel Quality. That’s one reason why you can get Camel Quality at so moderate a price. We put no useless frills on the Camel package. No ‘‘extra wrappers!’ Nothing just for show! Such things do not improve the smoke any more than premiums or coupons. And their added cost must go onto the price or come out of the quality. One thing, and only one, is responsible for Camels great and growing popularity —that is CAMEL QUALITY.