4 The DAVIDSONIAN
Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 6 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Forum Editor
Editor-in-Chief
P. PRICE
Managing Editor
S. CURRY
Campus Editor
H.W. BAILEY
Assignment Editor
R.K. DAVIDSON
SPRUNT
Sports Editor
W. C. GORDON
Publicity Editor
R. T. TRENHOLM
Exchange Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, W. S.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. I.
BROWN, C. V.
HESTON, W. M.
MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P.
JONES, J. R.
SMITH, J. C.
CALHOUN, M. P.
JONES, R. R.
FULLER, C. D.
SOX, W. M.
KNOX, W. I.
WALTHALL, B.
ELKINS, L. D.
LACY, T. A.
WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T.
MAUZE, E. H.
WILD, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOLFOLK
Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. SHEPARD
Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
M. R. DOUBLES
Circulation Manager
D. TULLER
S. C. FAIN
C. H. HENDERSON
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE
Assistant Circulation Managers

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Once again the Wildcat debaters have been successful in their contest with Randolph-Macon. The four to one decision of the judges on last Friday night is ample proof of the decisiveness of their victory, and we wish to congratulate the members of our team on the way in which they upheld the honor of Old Davidson.

Why is it that a man who will argue all afternoon before he parts with a quarter unnecessarily is never better pleased than when a professor cuts a class which he, the student, has paid for the privilege of attending?

With the first game hardly two weeks off, the baseball squad has some real work ahead of it in the next few days.

DAVIDSON’S LIFE WORK CAMPAIGN.

We are now in the midst of one of the most important events of the collegiate year at Davidson—the Life Work Campaign of the Y. M. C. A. The time has come when the call of the different professions is to be presented to the attention of the students, and when each one of us is called on to do some real thinking. No subject could be of greater importance to a man than this matter of the choice of a vocation, and certainly there is no one on the campus to whom it is not a vital question. It is because of the very universality of its appeal that we are devoting so large an amount of space in this week’s paper to the campaign.

No efforts have been spared by the Y. M. C. A. authorities to bring to Davidson at this time a speaker who will be a real help to the students and to whom they may talk freely about their problems. In Doctor Vander Meulen they feel that they have secured a man who fulfills all the requirements, and who will bring a message of real inspiration to every student. Surely these meetings afford an opportunity which none of us can afford to lose, and hold the possibility of great things for the student body. Let us then make it a point to be present at every meeting, lest we miss the very thing of which we are most desirous.

FOOD FOR SERIOUS THOUGHT.

Go to the Library and look over the bound copies of the Davidsonian for the past few years. You will find, if you examine closely, that almost without exception at about this time of year there have appeared editorials on the matter of the approaching student body elections. The problems to be faced are practically the same in each succeeding year, and one of those old editorials might apply to campus problems equally as well now as when they came from the hands of their respective authors. The subject has been worn rather threadbare as regards the matter of use, but it is nevertheless of such importance that we cannot refrain from the mention of it here.

Beginning with next Monday morning we shall be engaged for several weeks to come with the selection of new student body officers. On these men will be placed the responsibility of shaping the life of the campus during the year to come, and in their hands will be placed the power of making or breaking the several organizations of which they will be the leaders. The manner in which they face the problems which confront them will largely determine whether the various activities of the campus are to remain in their present conditions, take great steps forward, or lapse into absolute inaction. They will form the foundation on which the whole structure of college life will be based.

The men for offices of such importance should not be selected on the spur of the moment. They should rather be chosen as the result of mature deliberation on the part of every student, and after considering the candidates from all possible angles every student should make his own decision regardless of the opinion of others. In our deliberations on the matter let us lay aside all likes and dislikes, friendships and animosities, and then in all fairness let us vote for the men whom we believe to be the best qualified for the responsibilities of leadership on the Davidson campus. It is only by the exercise of such methods that we can hope to select the right men.

We believe that the Sophs realize most

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 10, 1921.

Open Forum

GET READY.

Prospects for Junior Speaking are certainly looking bright. Old '23 is taking hold of things like a veteran and promises to give us the social event of a lifetime—in fact they say that what's going on this year about the 24th and 25th of March is going to make everybody sit up and take notice, even the old timers.

But even with all the determination, sagacity, and capability of '23, they are not going to be able to have the big time they are planning without a lot of outside help from every man here. In the first place everybody must cooperate in seeing that there is plenty of “fire” on the hill and that they are properly taken care of. This will mean that all the fellows in town who can do so will have to give up their rooms for those three days and will have to come over on the campus, and it will also mean that those on the campus must not mind doubling for those three nights. The Juniors have all their plans worked out and all we have to do is to follow their lead and they guarantee that they will take care of every girl that the fellows will invite.

In the second place, to make this go we ought to all stay and enjoy it. There is a certain bunch on the hill that like to go home at this time every year. They are not only missing a big time themselves but they are keeping the rest of us from having just that much bigger time, for the old saying still holds true that “the more the merrier.” Pull hard, pull together, and pull with '23 and we will wake Davidson up two weeks from Friday.

A. D. F.

SQUARE DEAL.

If any one class on the hill has been knocked this year it is the Sophomores. We hear that part of them prefer to go home rather than study, and that those who stay do not try for the high lights in scholarship that other classes show. We hear that they violate the rules of the Student Government. We hear that they stamp their feet and are otherwise rowdy in chapel. This article is not to excuse any fault that the Sophs have. We believe that the Sophs realize most of their weaknesses and that for the most part they do not approve of them. But we do want to urgeThat it is time to put on the soft pedal. Let us remember the good points about the Sophs. Let’s remember the men in the class who favor us with music in various ways. Let us remember those who were on our football team. Let us remember the men interested in the different forms of our religious work. Let us remember those out for track and baseball. Let us remember those who average above 90 by a healthy margin. Let us remember those earnest fellows who plod along doing their best. Let us remember those interested in our publications. Let us remember those who are being recognized as possible material for student body leaders in days ahead. Each man thinks his class is the best and that is right, but we want to be broad and while standing for what is right in our class and the others let us try to see the good in all and promote among all our fellows that spirit which makes Davidson student life so grand.

Jumping around from one job to another will ultimately drag any man down to the bottom of the ladder and make him a stepping stone for the real stickers in the game of life. When you feel the fancied greater opportunities of other fields tugging at your sleeve just hold a short communion with yourself and remember that it’s the man and not the line which achieves success. You will then decide that there is nothing better than the work you are doing and that you make your own opportunities by the spirit you put into your task every day of the year. The fellow who attempts to dodge this fact is only kicking Progress in the shins.—Selected.

THREE YOUNG LADIES GIVE GOOD LYCEUM ATTRACTION

The program delivered by the Artists’ Trio Company last Monday night in Shearer Hall was one of unusual novelty and entertainment, and proved to be one of the best of this year’s Lyceum offering. The company was composed of three young ladies, Miss Corinne Jessop, reader and soprano; Miss Vera MacKelvie, cartoonist and soprano; Miss Mary Johnson, pianist and contralto. The program was a novel combination of songs, readings, pianologues, and cartoon work, and was so arranged as to command the receptive attention of the entire audience. The readings of Miss Jessop were especially enjoyed, as were the drawings of Miss MacKelvie. The party continued on their tour from Davidson, going to Cornelius for their next performance.

WORK COMMENCING ON ONE NEW FOUR-STORY DORMITORY

Work is beginning this week on the new four-story dormitory that will be ready for occupation by the beginning of next session. The building is to be completed by the 10th or 15th of August. Material is arriving every day to use on the foundation. Tool houses have been erected and a new electric-driven concrete mixer has been set up. A force of laborers has been secured and more will be added as needed. A car of crushed stone and cement is being unloaded for use in the concrete frame of the whole structure.

LOCAL BETA THETA PI IS HOST TO DISTRICT MEET

During the past weekend, the local chapter of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity was the host of the annual District Convention of that fraternity. The district in which the Davidson chapter, Phi Alpha, is included comprises also the chapters at Washington and Lee, Virginia, and North Carolina. Each of these chapters was represented by a delegation. The meetings were for the most part taken up with business relating to the various chapters. J. W. Stuart Gilchrist, of Charlotte, is district Chief, and as such conducted all the sessions of the convention. Business did not dominate entirely, however, and both the visitors and their hosts made it a most enjoyable occasion for all. Other alumni who were present included E. B. Nisbit, ’15, C. W. Gilchrist, ex-’22, and W. P. Thompson, '16, of Charlotte, and Capt. Reid Morrison, ‘02, of Mooresville.

WHAT’S WHAT (Continued from page 1)

He seemed possessed with the eye of an eagle and the slyness of a fox, adding quite a few counters to the Wildcats’ total.

C. M. Davis, Left Guard

Nappy was unable to play in a large number of games this year on account of scholastic difficulties and he was missed greatly. However, he got into a majority of the home games and slipped a spike in the opponents’ cogs several times by chalking up field goals. Nappy played like a Kansas cyclone, busting up dribbles and smearing passwork in great fashion.

D. Mallory, Right Forward

Dan came to Davidson with the reputation of being one of the best athletes ever turned out by Charlotte Hi, and by his work on the court this season he has demonstrated that he has the makings of a great basketball man in him. Floor work is his natural forte and he would be worthy of honorable mention in any company. He has also improved greatly in his shooting and deposited several baskets.

M. S. Beall, Right Forward

Mac is another Freshman who has shown wonderful improvement. This peppery little forward is fast and handles the ball cleverly, navigating his way through guards nearly twice his size. He attracted Coach Hengeveld’s attention early in the season by his quick pivoting and side-stepping, and under the tutelage of that able instructor he has shown remarkable development. With three years ahead of him, Beall should develop into a great little forward.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

Did You Ever?

Speaking of clothes—
Did your girl
Ever wear one dress
Until, when anyone
Said, “Can a leopard change
His spots?”
You always thought
Of her
And voted, “No?”
And then
One day
When you had been
Looking for her
And finally
You spotted that dress
And dashed up
And called her “Sweetie”
Or something soft like that,
And then the dress
Turned around
Her roommate said
“You fresh thing!”
Didn’t you recall
Something about a wolf
In “sheep’s clothing?”
—Utah Hum-Bug.

Has It Ever Happened to You?

Broke, broke, broke,
By thy spendthrift ways, O Girl!
And I would that I had the dollars
It cost me to give you a whirl.
O, well for the billionaire’s boy
With his fleet of expensive cars!
Oh, well for the wealthy lad
Who smoked imported cigars!
Broke, broke, broke,
And royally trimmed by thee.
Now I surely hope that you stick with him
And never come back to me!
—Dirge.

Swarthmore, Pa., Dec. 5.—During the first week in December a drive was instituted at Swarthmore, known as the College Chest Drive, the purpose of which is to consolidate the students’ subscriptions to the various causes which are now claiming the attention of the student body of almost every college in the country. The students of Swarthmore, like those of many other institutions, have experienced the annoyance, if it may be thus lightly termed, of digging down into their pockets at altogether too frequent intervals to support the different relief organizations of the country. In order to avoid this annoyance it has been decided to ask every student to contribute from one to fifty dollars to the “College Chest,” from which will be distributed, according to the judgment of those in charge, various amounts for the support of the six or more worthy organizations which would otherwise canvass the student body for the money. By the adoption of this system Swarthmore is going to ease the minds of the students who have paid their quota, and it will put the entire matter on a more business-like basis.

The Mercer Cluster.

The Mercer “Special,” composed of flatcars, tank cars, coal cars, and side-door Pullmans, furnished transportation for some 25 embryo “hoboes” on their way to the Tech-Mercer basketball game. In spite of the rain these men enjoyed their trip to the Capital city to see the much-talked-of game. All of which goes to show that the Mercer boys do have college spirit. And the crowd wishes to thank the Emory and Tech fellows for so kindly tendering us a bunk for the night.—Ex.

“He who has a thousand friends,
Has not a friend to spare.
While he who has one enemy,
Shall meet him everywhere.”
—Emerson.

A man without a purpose is like a vessel without a pilot. He drifts and never arrives at the desired destination. Every college man ought to have a purpose in view, and as a college man that purpose ought to be to get the most there is to be had from a college career.
—The Technique.