THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

FAMOUS JOURNALIST IS DISCUSSED AND STUDIED

Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity met Thursday night in the S. A. E. hall. After the business session, the group
entered into a study of Henry Watterson, acclaimed by many writers as the greatest of American journalists. This study was
conducted by Dunbar Ogden. Articles of a biographical nature were read and many were the tributes paid to the deceased
writer. The articles had to do largely with Mr. Watterson’s work as owner and editor of the Courier-Journal of Louisville.
Mr. Watterson’s contributions to the journalistic world were many and noteworthy.

HOME TALENT PLAYS TO BE PRESENTED SOON

The ladies of the Davidson chapter of the Red Cross will present two one-act plays at Shearer Hall on December
9th, for the benefit of the Red Cross Tuberculosis Fund. The plays selected are two of the most popular of
their kind and are being presented all over the country by many amateur players. They are “Joint Owners in Spain,”
by Alice Brown and “The Neighbors,” by Zona Gale. The first of these plays has its scene laid in an
old Ladies’ Home where the matron tries to prevent the trouble she is having with the two worst inmates by
placing them in the same room. The scene of “The Neighbors” is laid in a small village in which the
people are too much interested in their own selfish lives, until a complete change is brought about by the situations
of the plot. The interest of both plays lies in the humorous situations which occur. The plays are being coached
by Mrs. R. H. Wagner, who has had experience in this work, and there is every indication that the affair
will be a great success.

PHI SOCIETY DEBATES COLLEGE SHOP QUESTION

The Phi Society meeting last Thursday night was handicapped by the absence of an unusual number of its members. The
coaching classes and night reviews are largely responsible for absences. The debate on a system of general College Shops for
Davidson College, owned and operated by the Athletic Association, was strongly and hotly contested. The affirmative was represented by R.
J. Smith and A. S. Jones, while the negative was upheld by R. D. White and R. M. McGirt. The
vote of the judges was in favor of the negative. M. P. Calhoun gave an oration, choosing “Time” as his
subject. He forcefully showed where a man loses time and gains time during his college career, grasping opportunities when they
present themselves and making opportunities where they are lacking. The first critic, J. W. Baldwin, was absent so S. R.
Sloan was appointed to act as critic.

EUMANEANS PLAN FOR REJUVENATION MEETING

The meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society on November 16th was very poorly attended. Of the 10 members present, there
were none on the program, so the house was thrown open to various discussions. Dunbar Ogden, newly-elected president of the
society, resigned the chairmanship of the executive committee and appointed Layton Fraser in his place. The next thing discussed was
some method to obtain more interest in the weekly meetings. The names of the absentees were distributed among those present,
in order that they might see those absent and endeavor to revive the old Eu spirit that is held dear,
but latent, in the hearts of all its children. It was decided that the meeting of the 23rd should be
a rally meeting when all the members would be present, much business taken up, and a society emblem adopted.

The Value of a Smile

Nobody ever added up, The value of a smile; We know how much a dollar’s worth,

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY DEBATES FRESH FAGGING

The Metrophilian held their regular meeting last Tuesday evening. The subject for regular debate was, Resolved, That the fagging of
Freshmen at Davidson should be stopped. M. W. Trawick and Faggot were appointed on the affirmative while N. McLeod and
Christenbury upheld the negative. The debate was very good in view of the fact that two of the speeches were
impromptu. The subject for extemporaneous debate was, Resolved, That the dormitory supervisor should criticize the janitors only. J. A. Thompson
upheld the affirmative against C. E. Hodgin on the negative. The judges decided three for the negative. J. D. Bernhart
delivered a forceful oration on the R. O. T. C. at Davidson. After a short business session, the meeting adjourned.

ROMANTIC ROMEOS HORSED IN THE ATLANTA JOURNAL

All romance is not dead by a long shot for there are two romantic young would-be Romeos in the Freshman
class who sought adventure by writing to a young Atlanta lady whose picture they saw in the Sunday edition of
the Journal. They claim innocence of the matter but the evidence is all too plainly there since their letters were
published along with a “sermon” by the lady herself on “The Vanity of Men Who Think That All Girls Are
Just Dying to Write to Them.” She says: “They think they are irresistible.” Letters from all over the United States
were put in print and Davidson should feel proud that she was so well represented. It seems that a picture
of a good-looking girl affects all college men in the same way for there were some from Notre Dame, Chicago
University, Carolina, Clemson and many other schools. Walter Scott’s headed the list of all that were published and “Chick” Evans’
followed about fifth. From this, it would seem that Scott has a better line than Chick, but you never can
tell. In the interview which The Journal had with Miss Dot Anderson, they asked her for some samples of the
many letters which she received and these two boys were lucky enough to be among those of the “higher type.”
Here are the two “lines:” judge them for yourself:

Scott’s: My dearest Dot: Was quite fascinated at your picture in the paper. Were you at the Davidson-Tech game? Wish
I could have seen you then. I was there. I played in the game, did you see number two? You
will have to excuse all this nerve but I just had to write. You don’t mind do you? I think
I have some kinfolks in Atlanta and if I come down Christmas, may I call you up? Will you do
me a great favor, the greatest possible, in my estimation? Just write me a letter will you? I have framed
the picture of you but I certainly wish that I might have a real one. Won't you send me one?
I have autographed photos of Gloria Swanson, Nita Naldi and Agnes Ayres and I want to put yours by their
side. W. S.

Chick’s: Dearest Dot: I saw your picture in the Sunday paper. I’m a patron of roller skating myself, but that
isn’t what attracted my attention to your picture. It was that smile that makes you rate my greatest affection and
admiration. You don’t know how lonesome it is up here and when I see such a beautiful picture as yours
I can’t get it off my mind for days. Not that I want to, but you know what I mean.
I know this is rather informal and unconventional, but couldn’t you drop a lonesome boy a line? I think I’ll
go to Tech next year and I would like to be acquainted with someone before I go. Won’t you introduce
me to some of them when I get there? No, I believe I’d rather know just you and let the
others go. Is that enough for you to know about me? I’ve framed your picture. Couldn’t you send me a
real one? Yours in roller skating, C. E.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEAR PATTERSON AND WOODS

Two Union Seminary students spoke to the Ministerial students at their regular meeting. Mr. Patterson, in enlightening the students as
to what is in store for them at the seminary, told the members what the seminary is and what it
does for the student. He first quoted a few popular objections to a seminary, especially those of its being an
institution where one’s views are narrowed, and where ideas and theology are crammed into one to be later dryly handed
out, and also the objection of its not havinga thorough enough Bible course. To refute these, he gave a brief
explanation of the courses of instruction at the seminary. There are four courses pursued for three years that bear directly
on the Bible: the study of the English Bible, the study of Greek or the New Testament, the study of
Hebrew or the Old Testament, and a study of Theology, which is an attempt to understand the teachings of the
Bible. Indirectly, but importantly bearing on the ministerial profession are the two courses, Church History and Religious Education. Along with
this theoretical work is the opportunity in the summer to spend four months in ministerial work, together with a good
deal of practical work in the city during the winter. Such is what a seminary has to offer to a
student and is much better than purely a Bible School training. Mr. Woods explained what the seminary means to its
students. He told how Jesus called the 12, trained them and sent them out, and how the 12 learned principles
and methods of teaching from association with Jesus. Then he showed how the seminary students are first called and how
they are at the seminary learning of Jesus, his doctrines and principles. “Our spiritual life becomes mature at the seminary
from contact with the faculty, students and a closer fellowship with the Master.”

SEMINARY STUDENTS TALK TO VOLUNTEERS

The Volunteer Band was addressed Sunday morning by four Union Seminary students. Womeldorf, a graduate of Washington and Lee University,
drawing his thoughts from Acts 11:1-8, told how easy it is for the Volunteers to give money and pray for
the foreign missions and disregard local problems. “Distance lends enchantment.” He said that we are to begin right here on
the campus to stand for what is absolutely right. “Do the fellows know by what we do and how we
act whether we are real Christians or not? Do we ‘stoop to conquer?’” He told them to stand firmly for
Christ. Louis Schenck, an alumnus of Davidson, emphasized consecration, “When we have that deepest communion with Him, everything else springs
from it.” John Knox, Whitefield, Finney, Livington and all the other great Christian spiritual powers were great men in prayer.
Schenck told of a man after seeing Martin Luther spend a night in prayer, tell some conspirators that he did
not think they could overcome his plans. Schenck quoted men from the Bible who were prayerful and then pointed out
their consequently powerful lives. Guy Weeks, the leader, then asked the other two gentlemen if they had anything they wished
to add. Mr. Patterson, an alumnus of Washington and Lee, remarked: “There is nothing as great as taking the gospel
to foreign people, but a man must be a spiritual power here or he will not become one by changing
climates.” Mr. Woods, a graduate of Davidson, said that we must consecrate our lives first, then everything else will come.
“If we are not whole-heartedly interested in the proposition ourselves, how can we interest others?”

MILTON AND GREEN VISIT TROUTMAN

Last Sunday a deputation composed of Ernest Milton, from the Christian Endeavor training class, and J. L. Green, from the
Volunteer Band, visited Troutman. Both made helpful and inspiring talks at a combined meeting of the young people’s societies of
the town. Milton gave a brief outline of the history and principles of Christian Endeavor, emphasizing the fundamental principle of
loyalty to Christ. By many illustrations, the rewards of a life devoted to Christian ideals were presented. Green’s appeal took
the form of a call to definite service in some kind of Christian work. He brought out clearly the point
that only by adopting a plan for his life could a man accomplish the most good for God and humanity.
Both talks deeply impressed the young people present. On Monday the two men spoke at the schoolhouse. Green talked of
planning for a college education, while yet in high school. He stated that the best fields of service were open
to well-educated men alone. Then the challenge of the church was forcefully presented. Milton, following up Green’s talk, explained the
importance of having a specific purpose in preparing for the future and what a college education really means. Next week
deputations from the Christian Endeavor training class will visit Kannapolis and Barium Springs.

Y. M. C. A. BEGINS TO SEND OUT DEPUTATIONS

One of the main features of the religious activities are the deputations sent out each year to various parts of
the State. At present time this work has just gotten underway and from all indications many deputations will be sent
out this year. Last Saturday afternoon Harry Russell, Leroy Burney and Frank Johnson left for the mission school at Glade
Valley, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. This school is under the care of the Southern Presbyterian
Church, and the fact that Frank Johnson is an alumnus of this institution gives us an idea of the fine
work being carried on there. This year the Y. M. C. A. has three main goals toward which it is
striving in its deputation work. These are “High School Problems,” “College Problems” and “Vocational Guidance.” All of these are subjects
of vital importance to the high school student. Other deputations are sent out from time to time by the Volunteer
Band, Ministerial Band and the Christian Endeavor training class. It is the purpose of the Y. M. C. A, however,
that their deputations shall not overlap those of the other organizations, thus the work will be carried on in a
more extended field. The Glade Valley deputation is the first one sent out by the “Y” this year and marks
the beginning of what promises to be a great year of work of this nature.

FACILITIES INCREASED FOR WATER AND HEAT

Indications are that there will be more than holidays to be thankful for Thanksgiving. An increased water supply is already
evident, and a look inside the new heating plant enables one to believe that, as the contractors state, the new
system will be ready for trial during the Thanksgiving holidays. Within the last week two wells have been cleaned out
and put back into use—pump-jacks with individual motors were installed on each well. These two wells supply an additional two
gallons of water per minute. The new heating plant is beginning to take on an aspect of reality. The two
big boilers are fitted out, the steam pumps have been installed and the connections look like every new device known
has been attached. The contractor states that final connections to the radiator systems which are already installed will be made
at once and the boilers will be fired up for testing the last of next week. The ditches will remain
open for some time yet, however, as packing must be put on the pipes after it is seen that the
system will not have to be altered. Possibly when we return in the spring everything will have been straightened out—and
the place won't be recognized.

PHYSICS DEPARTMENT IS INCREASING EQUIPMENT

Davidson has always had a very excellent Physics department but during the past few months the efficiency of the laboratory
has been greatly augmented. This is due to a variety of new equipment. While in the process of construction large
brick piers were set up under the floor for the purpose of strengthening the building so that it might easily
bear the weight of the motors and heavy machinery. Recently, electricians placed a very flexible wiring system in the building
so that the students are now able to use both a 220 and a 110 volt current, transformed from a
current of 2300. Six new motors and generators have been added to the equipment and also three motor-generator sets. Large
quantities of smaller apparatus for the basic course, such as galvanometers, ammeters, volt-meters, watt-meters, gold-leaf electroscopes, inclined planes, Wheatstone bridges
and electro-magnets have also been received. All of these models have been of the latest design. The Sophomores are now
fully equipped for a course in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and magnetism. The Juniors and Seniors will soon have
a modern X-Ray outfit. This department is being well cared for and both Doctor Douglas and his corps of assistants
are looking forward to a great year of instructive work.
