THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

Davidson Alumnus Commemorates Father’s Memory

Former President Woodrow Wilson, ex-77, whom Davidson is proud to call her own, has shown his gratitude for the unceasing
efforts of his father in the work of the Presbyterian Church. Recently, he presented the congregation of the First Presbyterian
Church of Staunton, Va., a beautiful table to commemorate the memory of his father, Rev. Dr. Joseph R. Wilson, who
served that church as pastor from 1855 to 1857. While a minister there, a son, Woodrow, was born to him,
who was later to become a world leader—a blessing to home, college, and country. Staunton proudly claims his home, America
his country, but Davidson points with pride to his days spent here in old Chambers, which, like him, is fast
passing into the great beyond—a memory and a blessing.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

The names of several Davidson men appear in the newspaper reports of the activities and meetings of the Synod of
South Carolina, held last week. Among them was the name of Dr. D. M. Douglas, president of the Presbyterian College
of South Carolina, who made an inspiring address on Christian Education. Rev. W. B. S. Chandler and Rev. S. D.
Jones were appointed members of Synod’s committee of Sunday Schools and Young Peoples Work.

There were more than 1,700 people present at the rally day exercises in the Sunday school of Central Presbyterian Church,
Atlanta, Ga., of which Rev. B. R. Lacy, ’06, is pastor. At the rally day exercises of the Kings Mountain
Presbyterian meeting at Grover, North Carolina, last week, R. S. Coit, ’02, missionary to Korea, spoke on his work there.

W. E. Crane, 1922, was recently elected president of the Junior class at Union Seminary. Rev. W. A. Murray, ’96,
led the devotional exercises at Kings Mountain. J. E. Faw, ’15, chief clerk for the American Telephone and Telegraph Company,
Atlanta, Ga., was on the campus this week, running up between trains while on a business trip to Charlotte.

Rev. T. J. M. Stevenson, of Barnesville, Ga., has recently been called to the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church of
Lowryville, S. C. Rev. John A. McMurray, ’07, has recently been installed as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Abbeville, S. C. He has been enthusiastically received by the people of Abbeville.

The First Presbyterian Church of Concord has purchased as part of the church equipment a new Willys-Knight car for the
pastor, Rev. E. K. Rowan, ’04. Lieutenant J. Woodrow Clark, ’18, of Camp Benning, Ga., has been on the campus
for a few days’ visit. Gordon Foster, ’16, is with the Atlanta School of Dentistry. Z. N. Holler, ’07, is
now with the accounting firm of Ernst and Ernst and is stationed at Pittsburgh, Pa.

E. O. G. Tilly is president of the Society of Missionary Inquiry at Union Seminary. This society, which corresponds to
the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson, is over 100 years old, having been founded in 1818. J. B. Johnston,
business manager of Barium Springs Orphanage, made an enthusiastic report of the orphanage work. J. W. Yonan, ex-1924, is in
the Persian rug business in Richmond, Va. George E. Miley, ’21, is in the insurance business in Concord.

The Winston-Salem High School team, of which Doc LaFar, ’22, is coach, won in a game of football last Saturday
against Greensboro High School, of which Rooster McFadden, ’22, is coach.

CHAUTAUQUA ENTERTAINERS (Continued from Page One)

Culp. The speaker successfully portrayed the difference between the effects of the dream and money. He demonstrated forcefully the value
of having some aim in life.

FRIDAY NIGHT

In spite of the heavy downpour, the evening program was a success and the audience was well pleased by the
numbers presented during the evening’s repertoire. The program, which was divided into lecture, magical, and musical divisions, first presented Dr.
W. T. S. Culp, who lectured on The Spirit of the Colonist. In this historical lecture, Doctor Culp told of
the life of this country and the early proceedings in the old Independence Hall. He told of Betsy Ross and
the birth of the Stars and Stripes. He placed before his hearers a word picture of the difficulties confronting the
colonists and of their success in founding the world’s greatest nation. His comparison of America with the South American countries,
the European countries, Mexico, and Canada aided in making his lecture one of the most patriotic ever heard in Davidson.

Milburn, the magician, appeared again, producing many tricks which are still puzzling the audience. An exceptionally good program was rendered
by the Collins Duo. Their vocal and instrumental selections proved to be very pleasing to the audience. The manner in
which Mr. Collins characterized the working, joking Irishman was enthusiastically received.

SATURDAY AFTERNOON

The program for the Saturday afternoon performance consisted of a lecture by Dr. T. Boyd Gay and a short concert
by the Pietsch Yodeling Society. Doctor Gay’s subject was the Spirit of the Patriot. Co-operation was the theme of his
speech, which he viewed as the spirit of the true patriot. Doctor Gay began by declaring that, in his opinion,
the Constitution of the United States is the greatest achievement of the human brain, because this document has stood the
test of time but particularly because it is the result of co-operation. This, he said, is easy in the larger
affairs of life, but difficult in small things. As an illustration of co-operation in important affairs, Doctor Gay cited the
great war.additional instance he spoke of the W. C. T. U. in its fight for national prohibition. The speaker pointed
out Dr. Russell H. Cromwell, as a man of the co-operative type. Doctor Cromwell has educated over 1,600 boys from
the receipts of his lectures and the sale of his books. Then Doctor Gay contrasted a small town in which
the people were pulling against each other, with one in which the people were united. Mrs. Pietsch and her company
of Swiss Yodlers gave a short musical concert. The company consisted of Mrs. Pietsch, alto; Miss Caroline Pietsch, soprano; Leo
Gasteiger, baritone and champion yodler; and George Lechler, zither player. The first number was a trio, Happy Is the Alpine
Life, sung in English. Following this were several numbers in both Swiss and English. The singers seemed at their best
in their native Swiss.

SATURDAY NIGHT

The Pietsch Yodlers in their quaint Swiss costumes, appeared in concert Saturday night. The whole program was given over to
the musicians. The program was well selected and well rendered. Miss Pietsch and Mr. Gasteiger shared honors as the stars
of the occasion. Perhaps the best number was the final one, a Spinnery Song. Gasteiger kept the audience amused by
his quips interspersed between his vocal and bodily gymnastics. Hush-a-Baby-Bye gave him an opportunity to show off the natural clumsiness
of a man when trying to handle a baby. By request Mr. Gasteiger repeated his afternoon hit, Where, Oh Where,
Is My Little Dog Gone? He has a good baritone and earns his title of “Champion Yodler.” Miss Pietsch gave
several solos. Among them was My Wild Irish Rose, with several encores. In spite of a slight hoarseness she was
able to range freely up and down the scale. A pretty feature of the program was the echoes given by
Miss Pietsch after her mother’s yodels. One could almost see the rocky hillsides and sunny slopes of the Alps. Mrs.
Pietsch gave some pretty yodeling songs in Swiss. She did not limit herself to that language, however, but gave English
selections as well. The whole program was materially strengthened by Mr. Lechler’s accompaniments. He also gave several zither solos which
showed his mastery of that difficult instrument. Chimes in a Swiss Valley was probably his best number.

MONDAY AFTERNOON

The Monday afternoon entertainment was cut short by the late arrival of the musical instruments that were to be used
in the program. However, Doctor Hyde sufficiently entertained the audience. Doctor Hyde, in the afternoon, spoke on the Durable Satisfaction
of Life. Besides being an earnest and forceful speaker, he gained the good will of the audience by his wit
and humor. He talked from his heart, and one could not but be impressed. In beginning, he said that he
wondered if the young people of the world realized that they were worth much more than they thought. He said
that “they are the ones who will control the world tomorrow, and it is a great responsibility to them to
do their very best.” It is surprising how few real friends we have in the world. It is because there
are such wide gulfs between those who ought to be closest that there is so much trouble. The gulf between
father and son is the cause of many a young man’s mistakes. Our work in this world, says Doctor Hyde,
is not what most of us think. Our real work is the building of a character. In closing, he contrasted
the means used by Christ and Napoleon to gain the world.

MONDAY NIGHT

Doctor Hyde spoke again Monday night, and even beat his evening lecture. His appeal was to the red-blooded young men
and women of America. He analyzed the spirit of the American pioneer and showed the need for that spirit today.
The thrill of the unknown, he said, was what made the pioneer independent of his surroundings, who fought to the
last ditch, and who realized what their efforts would mean to the coming generations. Always facing a new and unknown
path, he never gave up. When it seems that we have not the spirit to go on and are about
to give up, we should remember those who broke the wilderness of this country, and what odds they faced. We
never know but that our objective is just around the corner. America, more than any other nation, loves the man
who sticks to his post, his job, through thick and thin. The power that carried the pioneer forward and that
still today is the greatest power in the world, is that power that says “I Will,” in the heart of
a man. People are always looking for something wrong in their make-up, and fail to take hold and determinedly go
on. People of today do not realize what a power there is in the young of America. They have failed,
in many cases, to even attempt to fully develop it. It is a resource unbounded in value. The Marshall Novelty
Company closed the program with a great variety of renditions.

Agents Wanted To Represent
Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company
Ocean Accident and Guaranty Company
W. E. PRICE General Agent
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ARTIFICIALLY BLEACHED

On the Square
Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

A dry season is always followed by a period of wet weather. Not all athletic events scheduled can be played,
but the anticipated income can be guaranteed by RAIN INSURANCE
McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
TRUST COMPANY
