THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1922.

Fill out chart in detail
Analysis of Personal Characteristics
Keep this analysis for your reference

Concentration
Ease in Learning
Imagination
Judgment
Memory
Open-mindedness
Confidence in Judgment
Willingness to Volunteer
Generosity
Considerateness
Tactfulness
Tolerance
Ability to Lead
Temperament and Enthusiasm
Willingness to Persist
Even-temperedness
Sensitiveness
Optimism
Cheerfulness
Deliberateness
Patience
General Initiative
Industriousness
Leadership
Willingness to Accept Responsibility
Ability to Get Results
Alertness and Curiosity
Powers of Observation
Resourcefulness
Adaptability
Unselfishness

Rating
ASSETS | LIABILITIES

Physical
Physique
Bodily Defects
Ailments
Health
Erect Carriage
Awkwardness
Endurance
Lack of Endurance

Mental
Accuracy
Inaccuracy
Dullness and Disinterest
Lack of Concentration
Slowness in Learning
Lack of Imagination
Poor Judgment
Poor Memory
Poor Observation
Lack of Resourcefulness
Narrow-mindedness
Tendency to Give Up

Moral
Cleanliness
Uncleanness
Honesty
Dishonesty
Kindness
Unkindness
Loyalty
Disloyalty
Straightforwardness
Underhandedness
Modesty
Conceit
Courage
Timidity

Social
Weakness in Meeting Others
Reticence and Stiffness
Distrust of Others
Unwillingness to Forgive
Greediness
Stubbornness
Inconsiderateness
Tactlessness
Intolerance
Inability to Co-operate
Selfishness

Disposition
Indifference
Pig-headedness
Lack of Perseverance
Explosiveness
Callousness
Pessimism
Grouchiness
Impulsiveness
Impatience
Dependence
Indecisiveness

Leadership
Tendency to Avoid Responsibility
Lack of Initiative
Inability to Get Results

It is difficult to make an impartial estimate of one’s self. An honest outside judgment is helpful. Use this chart
to increase your assets. In checking your characteristics be accurate with yourself. Beware of under-rating or over-rating your assets; it
is the common practice of many persons, particularly the modest and conscientious, to under-rate themselves. You may find that in
some respects you possess contradictory qualities, that is—you may be courageous in some situations and timid in others. Do not
hesitate where necessary to mark both. If you are uncertain about the exact meaning of any of the above terms
consult an unabridged dictionary. The qualities listed above largely determine your character, personality, capacity, and effectiveness. If possible, have one
or two adult friends who know you intimately (your parent, teacher, clergyman, or close friend and associate) make a complete
independent analysis.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

“Y” CABINET SPENDS GOOD TIME NEAR MOUNT MOURNE

Availing themselves of the very first of the spring weather, the Y. M. C. A. cabinet took to the woods
last Sunday for a last informal outing together before the installation of a new set of officers next month. The
party left the Hill just after dinner Saturday and established themselves at the home of Mr. and Mrs. R. L.
Morrison, near Mount Mourne. They returned that night long enough to see the basketball game, and spent the remainder of
the evening and all of Sunday in the delightful atmosphere of the Morrison home.

Sunday morning was consumed by a detailed discussion, led by various members, of the needs and wants that the Y.
M. C. A. is expected to meet. After a recess in which the party strolled about in small groups, and
a magnificent chicken dinner, the discussion was resumed in the afternoon by discussing the things that the ideal Y. M.
C. A. ought to be. The cabinet finally decided that the most urgent need was for the reconsecration of every
officer to his tasks, and it was with this thought uppermost in every mind that the discussion broke up, and
the party began its trip home. Too great praise cannot be given Mrs. Morrison for her charming hospitality and for
her thoughtfulness in providing everything that could possibly have been asked for the comfort of the party. The trip could
not possibly have been the great success that it was, apart from her aid.

Saturday afternoon was largely devoted to a riotous game of indoor baseball, with sad effects on a large cornfield just
behind the diamond. John Railey and McDowell Richards deserve special mention for their splendid efficiency in retrieving flies which journeyed
into this field. Harold McKeithen showed his usual rare form upon the mound, while Johnny Currie’s handling of third was
nothing short of phenomenal. The whole party tramped in Saturday night to see the game. The return trip was made
in cars.

OGDEN AND GAMBLE SPEAK TEN TIMES IN GASTONIA

Last Sunday and Monday Ogden and Gamble visited Gastonia as a deputation from the Ministerial Band. On Sunday they spoke
at the West Avenue and the First Presbyterian Churches and on Monday they spoke at the public schools. The Sunday
services were given to challenges for decision for full-time Christian service and the talks at the schools were given to
challenges tomake one’s life useful to the person just at hand and to as many people in the world as
possible, and to this end it was urged that as many years in school as possible be striven for and
that the students practice loyalty, honesty, and unselfishness in their school life. With two church services, two talks at Sunday
School, three talks to the young people of the churches, and three talks at the public schools, these men had
a busy and happy trip, and report a warm, splendid reception by the Gastonia people.

“The phonograph with a soul”
231 S. Tryon St.
YOUR HOME IS NOT COMPLETE WITHOUT A NEW EDISON
Office Supply & Equipment Co., Inc.
DEALERS

LOCAL “Y” WILL HAVE LIFE WORK CAMPAIGN MARCH 8-12

On March 8 the Y. M. C. A. is going to start a “Life Work Campaign” to last through 12,
Dr. John M. Vander Meulen, president of Louisville Theological Seminary, will conduct these meetings. This is a thing which will
interest every man on the hill, the Y. M. C. A. wants every man to be thinking earnestly about his
life work. Dr. Vander Meulen will speak five times and will hold half-hour interviews with all who desire to talk
with him about their life work. In these five days, these meetings will be a combined evangelistic and life work
campaign. The evangelistic meetings are usually held in the fall, but as none were held last fall, that part is
combined with the Life Work Campaign. This campaign was conducted last spring by Dr. Taliafero Thompson, as any upper-classman will
remember, and was a most enjoyable series of meetings. It is hoped that every organization will keep these dates, March
8 to 12, open, so that every man in the student body will have a chance to hear and talk
to Dr. Vander Meulen.

Y. M. C. A. SENDS FIVE MEN TO SALISBURY FOR MEETINGS

One of the most effective Y. M. C. A. deputations of the year, composed of Pat Miller, D. P. McGeachy,
Joe Baldwin, Archie Freeman, and Reed Sloan, spent Friday, Saturday, and Sunday with Mr. Hoffman as guests of the Salisbury
Y. M. C. A. At the stag party in the gym Friday evening, the all-day hike and evening meeting of
the younger boys Saturday, and the “Hi-Y” meeting Sunday afternoon, different members of the party spoke on such subjects as
“Clean Sports,” “Practical Religion,” “The Kind of a Man That Counts,” and “Preparation for a Life of Service.” P. D.
Miller and Pat McGeachy with his “old guitar” furnished very enjoyable music on quite a number of these occasions. Due
to the careful preparations of Mr. Hoffman and the warm hospitality of the Salisbury people, the entire visit was made
enjoyable and it is certainly to be hoped that the work done may be effective and permanent.

FEBRUARY 26TH PRAYER DAY FOR COLLEGES OF THE WORLD

Sunday, February 26, is designated as the Universal Day of Prayer for Colleges. As students, Davidson men are requested to
pray for our brothers in Europe, particularly in Russia. Not only are we asked to pray, but also to sacrifice
and give to those who call so urgently to us. Moreover, we are asked to pray that the Life Work
Conference may accomplish much while it is in session here March 8-12. The “Y” has secured Dr. Frazer, president of
Queens College, to speak to us on this subject next Sunday. Dr. Frazer is a very popular speaker in Charlotte,
and those who have heard his addresses have enjoyed them very much. He is also a prominent and active Rotarian
of the Charlotte branch.

EAGLE “MIKADO” PENCIL No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Made in five grades

LOUISVILLE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Scholarly Practical Progressive Spiritual
Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill. Located in the heart of the
chief city of the South. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry in the Twentieth Century.
Write to JOHN M. VANDER MEULEN, D. D., LL. D., President

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr.
East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks, served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

It Wakes You Up
In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
