THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 26, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS: ALUMNI AT GAME

Dr. A. M. Maxwell, '96, eye, ear, and nose specialist, of Roanoke, Va., and W. W. Stowe, '95, successful merchant
and former athlete of Davidson, witnessed the V. P. I. defeat. Captain R. R. Morrison, '02, was among those who
saw the game. Others witnessing the game were W. D. Farr, S. M. Thompson, '21, member of the firm of
Thompson and Caldwell, road contractors, now engaged in constructing the road between Mooresville and Charlotte. Also R. B. Sanford, '98,
automobile dealer of Mocksville, G. E. Miley, '21, of the Equitable Life Insurance Company, who is remembered as one of
the football stars of three years ago; J. A. Steele, of Mooresville, scarcely ever misses a hotly contested game at
Davidson. He maintains the same interest he had when he was a player along with Arch McFadden, '99, “Jerry” McConnell,
'99, Banks Clements, and others.

C. I. Grey, '92, of the Grey Hosiery Mills of Hendersonville, N. C., was present. Mr. Grey could not resist
the homecoming appeal and, throwing aside the busy life of a manufacturer, he returned to his Alma Mater. For a
number of years, Mr. Grey was in charge of the Southern Cotton Oil Company's plant at Davidson. He is a
brother of Dr. W. R. Grey, of the faculty at Davidson, and also of W. M. Grey, health superintendent of
the Mecklenburg County Welfare Work.

Dr. J. P. Monroe, M.D., LLD., president of the Lindenburg Manufacturing Company, a prominent physician of Charlotte, was among the
hundreds of people who motored up from Charlotte for the game Saturday. Arch Cannon, '04, with the Cannon Manufacturing Company,
of Concord, was on the field. Carl Shearer, merchant of Statesville, was on the campus. Mr. Shearer and other alumni
are taking steps to organize an Iredell County Alumni Association. W. Frank Hall, Jr., '20, will be remembered as the
manager of the 1920 football team. He is now manager of the Hall Manufacturing Company, of Statesville. John Irwin, '75,
traveling salesman from Charlotte, made it convenient to be passing through Davidson on Saturday. Joseph B. Johnston, '01, superintendent of
the Barium Springs and Syndic office work, was an interested spectator Saturday. Mr. Johnston’s record as a center on the
football team in his college days is well known and remembered.

C. A. and Kenneth Montcastle, of Lexington, and their father, C. M. Montcastle, motored over for the game. Rev. L.
G. Henderson, D.D., '06, Lexington, N. C., and E. G. Henderson, '75, of Charlotte, with Mrs. Henderson, were also here.
Also J. S. Crayton, of Crayton and Company, dealers in office supplies, was out from Charlotte. Dr. J. L. Adams,
'06, surgeon of Asheville; R. M. Miller, '76, ex-president of the Alumni Association, and general chairman of the $600,000 Saudis
campaign fund; Summerrill, '76, Salisbury, and E. D. Brown, '88, saw the game. J. A. Glover, '16, of Salisbury, with
the Duke Engineering Company. Dwight M. Chalmers, '20, a popular Y. M. C. A. secretary of last year, but now
connected with the State Highway Commission; Rev. Jesse C. Roane, '04, the new pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at
Concord, were also present. Together with Rev. Roane were his family and a party of friends, who motored over from
Concord, among whom were J. C. McCaskill, '21. Rev. C. H. Liddell, Charlotte, pastor of Sharon Church; Scott Candler, '07,
attorney of Atlanta, and a trustee of Davidson College, both viewed the game. Mr. Candler is a trustee from Athens
Presbytery, and in returning from a business trip to New York, ran up between trains to see the game. G.
P. Apperson, with the H. B. Albro Company, cotton brokers, of Charlotte, was also on the hill. Mr. Apperson recently
moved from Mississippi to his present home. W. E. Genesee, of Salisbury; J. P. McNeill, Jr., '17, attorney of Florence;
R. P. Richardson, '18, merchant of Reidsville; A. L. Foscue, of Mt. Homer; W. L. McClinton, banker of Charlotte; J.
H. Neal, of the Charlotte National Bank, were among the spectators. Mr. Neal will be remembered as one of the
debaters during his senior year. Mr. Neal has distinguished himself in Charlotte as a soloist. J. C. Ross, '98, and
James K. Foster and wife of Winston-Salem, motored down for the game. C. Watkins, a dealer in lumber and building
supplies of Statesville, was among the crowds.

C. O. “Booster” Kuester, '22, of Davidson, representing the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, was a large factor in winning the
game Saturday. His enthusiasm was a vital spark in the fight the boys put up. W. H. Hawkins, Jr., attorney
of Charlotte; Leopold A. Tindley, New York, whose articles recently appeared in World’s Work, and other magazines; C. W. Gorman
and Mrs. Gorman, of Charlotte, were on the campus. Mr. Gorman is with the Southern Power Company and is a
brother to Professor Gorman of the Davidson faculty. Dr. Yates Faison, '06, baby specialist of Charlotte; E. G. McKethan, '06,
businessman of Fayetteville, and L. B. McKethan, merchant of New Bern, were among the visitors. Some of the other alumni
present were Cecil Dew, '22; Curtis Ormond, '22; Jim Blue, ex-'23; Doc LaFar, '22; Rooster McFadden, '22 (linesman for Davidson);
W. P. Nesbit, '21, and Tom Lowry, '22. H. C. Williamson, of Florence, S. C., and Mr. Barringer of Charlotte,
were also on the hill. It was impossible for the reporter to witness a game of that degree of excitement
and at the same time list the names of anything like all the alumni who were on campus. Probably no
event of recent years has attracted more men back to the old scenes and buildings at Davidson than did this
mighty battle with V. P. I.

WHO? WHAT? WHERE?

Dr. James Steve Brown, '89, is now a practicing physician at Hendersonville, N. C. Other men who are Davidson graduates
and have located in Hendersonville also are R. M. Oates, C. L. Grey, R. C. Sample, J. H. Sample. James
S. Brown, Jr., '21, is making a wonderfully fine record at Tulane this session. Although this is his first year,
he has already been elected a member of the student council. J. A. Matheson, '90, is now president of the
Matheson-Wills Real Estate Company, of Greensboro, N. C. Atwell C. McIntosh, '81, is now professor of law at the University
of North Carolina in Chapel Hill. Rev. A. G. Buckner, D. D., '79, after 34 years of active ministry, is
now a retiring minister residing at Clio, S. C. Doctor Buckner is now farming and is also doing local mission
work. Rev. C. G. Brown and Rev. J. A. Caligan, both of the class of '79, are now active ministers
in South Carolina. The former is located at Clio while the latter is at McColl. Albert S. Potts is now
in the general insurance business in New Orleans, La. His address is No. 2222 Milas Street. H. S. Brown, Jr.,
'19, may be reached by a card at Tulane University in New Orleans. Thomas J. Mitchell, '17, is cashier of
the Thomasville Fertilizer Company, of Thomasville, Ga. Other men in the vicinity of Thomasville and who may be reached there
are C. W. Ausley, '17; Wm. A. Watt, '01; L. B. Stephenson, '17; John Watt, '06; A. M. Mitchell, '21;
Harsell Watt, '01, and R. C. Balfour, Jr. D. I. McKethan, very popular member of the class of '99, is
now cashier of the Page Trust Company, Aberdeen. S. A. Robson, successful merchant and manufacturer of Gastonia, trustee from Kings
Mountain Presbytery, was a member of the Gastonia party over for the game. A. S. Cashion, cotton broker, of Gastonia;
E. S. Carr, '98, superintendent of Sunday school young people’s work, for the Synod of North Carolina, are successful graduates
of Davidson seen at the school last week. L. A. Wilkinson, secretary and treasurer of the Elizabeth Cotton Mills of
Charlotte, is a member of the Alumni Athletic Council. I. P. Graham, cotton manufacturer of Cooleemee, chairman of the advisory
coaching staff, was much pleased with the outcome of the game.game. J. H. McAlister, with the Southern Life and Trust
Company, of Greensboro, answered the home-coming call. L. W. Dick, ’83, of Darlington, S. C., is county superintendent of education.
T. Dupey, ’85, of Marion, Ky., is in the tobacco buying and rehandling business. Charles M. Hepburn, ’78, is dean
of the Law School of the Indiana University School of Law. Davidson men make their marks in all vocations in
life. The present address of David C. Mebane, M. D., ’78, is 1713 Sherman Ave., Evanston, Ill. He is a
prominent physician and druggist of that city. T. D. Crawford, '82, is a lawyer and a reporter of the Supreme
Court. His home is in Little Rock, Ark. A member of the Converse College faculty is Joseph Alexander Tillinghast. His
address is 143 Drayton Ave., Spartanburg, S.C. The superintendent of the Oregon State School for the Deaf is E. C.
Tillinghast, '93. His headquarters are in Salem, Ore. A member of the Brown and Brown Law firm of Washington, D.
C., is F. T. Brown. John K. Price, ’22, and A. F. Fricker, '21, are now attending the Mass. Institute
of Technology at Cambridge, Mass. Their address is 16 St. Paul Street. David Lowrance, ’22, is living in Charlotte, N.
C., where he is employed by the Aikin Manufacturing Company.

MARRIAGES
Billy Shaw Howell, ex-’18, is to be married, November 1st, to Miss Mary Brevard Alexander at the First Presbyterian Church
in Charlotte. Rev. D. C. Young, ’16, is to be married November 15th to Miss Sarah Bowen McCain, of Memphis,
Tenn., in Knoxville, Tenn.

NEW HEATING PLANT NEARING COMPLETION
Heat may be expected in abundance within a short while for the new heating plant is nearing completion. The building
is practically finished except for the glass windows. The stack is up, one boiler has been set, and work has
begun on the pipe connections. The new system should be in operation within the next two weeks. Meanwhile, should cold
weather come, the heat problem is solved. The old buildings still have their source of supply, while temporary pipe lines
have been run from the old heating plant back of the Georgia Hall to the new dormitories to take care
of the situation there. The new plant is designed to furnish heat for the entire campus and will ultimately be
connected to all of the buildings. At present, however, connections will be run only to the new dormitories, the barracks,
and the gymnasium.

D. Keels—"I always sleep with gloves on to keep my hands safe.”
Foil—"Hum—you must sleep with your hat on, too!”

Do not despise the little things. The germ’s a tiny cuss, but he can cause more trouble than a hippopotamus.

Happy the man who loves his work, and loves his work alone; for many a man loves another man’s job
when he ought to be loving his own. —Exchange.

WILDKITTENS CONQUER HUNTERSVILLE HIGH 20-0
In a hard-fought game, the Davidson “Hi” School Wildkittens took the heavy Huntersville “Hi” team into camp by the score
of 20 to 0 on Sprunt Field last Friday 13th. The game was hard-fought from start to finish—each team taking
turns in frequent lighter skirmishes. Davidson's line experienced trouble in stopping the smashing line bucks of Gilso, the Huntersville fullback.
This boy looked like a second Jack Black in the first quarter when he carried the ball eight consecutive times
through the opposing line for three first downs. Mooney, of Huntersville, gave a good account of himself at quarter. Davidson
held their heavier opponents for downs three times within the 10-yard line in the first half—a penalty for off-side probably
saved a touchdown being chalked up against them in the first few minutes of play. Grey distinguished himself with his
line smashes and end runs. He circled around left end in the final minutes of the game, outrunning the whole
field for 30 yards for a touchdown—Davidson’s final marker. Dick also showed uncanny ability in the art of kicking goals—drop
kicking two out of a possible three. “Wiggs” McConnell at end for Davidson contributed the prettiest play of the day,
snatching a pass from Grey and running 30 yards before he was downed. The entire Davidson team put up a
nice game—due to the untiring efforts of our friends, Pat Crawford and Bascome Sorrells—who are coaching the team this year.

When you have done a good thing, don’t stop to talk about it. Do another.

CHONG’S LETTER (Continued from page two)
took the kick-off and ran through about six of the opposition like a scared jack rabbit running for cover. Jim
shot past all but the safety man like a flash then sidestepped the safety man but was slowed up enough
to get caught after his great 50-yard dash. That brought the stands to their feet, kid, and then in about
three minutes Laird pulled his long-distance run. One of the biggest features of the game, Joe, was the way the
Techmen didn’t gain around the flanks. Nappy and Lias showed themselves to be about the niftiest pair of wingmen in
this part of the country. Twenty-one times the Techmen attempted to circle the ends and they came off with a
net total of 28 yards gained. In the Centre game these same Gobblers tore off 88 yards around end or
over three times the yardage gained over Davis and Faison. Centre has All-American Red Roberts on one end and in
one dash around him the Gobblers gained as much as their net yardage around our flanks during the whole game.
Tech was holding Sutton in reserve for the Maryland, Washington and Lee, and V. M. I. games but when the
Wildcats put up their game scrap in the second period, in went Sutton and in he stayed till the final
whistle. The Wildcats also made him look tame. On eight trials the speed demon gained 28 yards and on six
attempts he lost 22 yards. Or to put the facts plainly, he averaged one foot and four inches on each
attempt. The punting of Bill Joe, Jr., saved us in the last quarter, Joe. Two 50-yard punts set the V.-P.I.
team back considerably. On the first punt Bill Joe ripped off 50 yards and then got down in time to
assist Faison and Davis in running Sutton back 15 yards on the return. He got a big welcome in the
final minutes and he saved the game by his great tackle of Rhodes. Then a place-kick failed and it was
the Wildcats’ ball. Spratt will be in there to tear things up in Greensboro next Saturday and Trinity will be
given the fight of their lives by the gang. You’ve missed the best game of the season so don’t miss
the Greensboro scrap. The big slogan now is, Captain Spratt Carolina.

CHONG.

DIXIE DOPE (Continued from page two)
looks like the “old boys” are going to get frocked. Vanderbilt seems to stand prominent by virtue of her defeat
of Texas and tie with Michigan who last week beat Ohio State by the decisive score of 19-0. Vandy did
not lose last year. Auburn’s great offensive is sure to make her a threat to any team, but it wouldn’t
be safe to give her any bouquets until she has proved her mettle by defeating Ga. Tech on Grant Field
Thanksgiving. Reports from Auburn have it that that is just what the Plainsmen are going to do this year. Closely
bunched behind Auburn and Vanderbilt are Centre, W. and L., Georgia Tech, Georgia, and Tulane, and only a wizard could
at this time pick the best. V. M. I.’s victory over Virginia and North Carolina’s series of victories might mean
that these teams are coming back on the big stage again. The only thing to do is to wait and
see.

Agents Wanted To Represent Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company Ocean Accident and Guaranty Company W. E. PRICE General Agent CHARLOTTE,
N. C.

On the Square Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles WHITE DRUG COMPANY PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
