THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

LINDSAY PATTERSON, ’78, DIES IN STATESVILLE

After an illness of several weeks, Lindsay Patterson, ’78, widely known attorney and prominent citizen of Winston-Salem, died in Long's Sanatorium in Statesville. He had been in ill health for some time, and had been constantly under the care of his physician for three or four weeks. Death was due directly to kidney and heart trouble, which followed an attack of influenza. On Saturday last his condition suddenly became very serious, and Mrs. Patterson was summoned to his side. She was with him when the end came.

The funeral services of Mr. Patterson were held at the home of his only surviving sister, Mrs. A. L. Coble, in Statesville, Tuesday morning, November 28th at 10 o'clock. The burial was at the old Patterson home place in Happy Valley, the Chapel of Rest. All during his life, Mr. Patterson was a lover of the mountains, and it is in response to his request that his resting place will be in Happy Valley, where so many of his days had been spent. He was the owner of a large tract of land in Happy Valley and nothing gave him greater joy than to visit there and dwell for a while in the quiet mountain country, the beauties of which always appealed to him strongly and won his tender interest.

Mr. Patterson's full name was Jessie Lindsay Patterson. He was born in Salem on May 16th, 1858, so that he was little more than 64 years old at the time of his death. On September 6, 1888, Mr. Patterson married Lucy Bramlette Patterson, of Tennessee. They met while Mrs. Patterson was attending Salem College. There were no children.

Receiving his early education in the schools of Winston-Salem, Mr. Patterson attended Davidson College, where he graduated in the class of 1878. On leaving Davidson, he entered the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill for the study of law, and after receiving his degree and qualifying for the profession, he located at Winston-Salem, his life-long home, for the upbuilding of his active career.

Mr. Patterson was always an active citizen, striving to bear his share of every movement looking to the betterment and development of his community, State and country. Mr. Patterson was a devoted member of the First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, and during the past six or eight years has been a member of the board of elders, prior to which time he served as a deacon. Through his active career as a lawyer and citizen, Mr. Patterson became one of the best known men there. His passing removes another figure of prominence and usefulness in this community, and leaves a vacancy in the lives of the many who knew and honored him.

W. S. HENDERSON TO WED MISS MURPHY

On December 28th there will be solemnized at Atkinson, N.C., a wedding of particular interest to students and alumni of Davidson, that of W. S. Henderson, ‘12, of Davidson, to Miss Florence Murphy, of Atkinson. Miss Murphy was educated at Queens College, where she specialized in music and expression. For some time she was a member of the faculty of the Methodist Orphanage at Raleigh. Miss Murphy is now living with her parents at Atkinson, where her father is considered one of the most influential and prosperous farmers of Pender county.

Mr. Henderson has lived in Davidson practically his entire life, graduating from Davidson College in 1912. During the World War he was employed as a chemist in the Dupont ammunition plant at Hopewell, Va. Returning to Davidson in 1918, he opened up the jewelry business which is now thriving. Actively interested in every movement for public welfare, Mr. Henderson is the type of progressive citizen of which Davidson may well be proud. In the Presbyterian Church he holds the office of deacon, and treasurer of benevolences. The many friends of Mr. Henderson in the town and college will welcome his bride and wish them every happiness. For a while they will reside with Mr. Henderson's mother in Davidson.

HERE AND THERE

Mr. W. B. Sullivan, of the class of ’20, and Mr. T. C. Stone, of the class of ’19, who are students in Union Theological Seminary, spent Thanksgiving in New York and stopped on their return at Princeton.

Rev. W. F. O'Kelly, ’04, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Minden, La.

Dr. J. E. Thacker, ’90, is one of the general evangelists of the Presbyterian Church. He has just concluded a successful meeting at Gastonia, N.C.

Rev. J. A. Yandell, ’94, was recently installed as pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Tryon, N.C.

Mr. W. P. Nesbit, ’89, a successful cotton manufacturer in Piedmont, S.C., and his son, Willie P., ’21, is teaching school at Piedmont, S.C.

Mr. W. G. Farr, ’94, is professor of English in the University of Florida, Gainesville, Fla.

Rev. T. H. Newkirk is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Corder, Missouri.

Rev. E. H. Bradley, ’94, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Mocksville, N.C. and also superintendent of public education in Davie county.

Rev. H. L. Overcash, ’93, is located in Leesburg, Fla.

Rev. Charles Montgomery, ’93, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Kenbridge, Va.

Rev. L. L. Moore, ’89, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Taylorsville, N.C.

Rev. W. A. Hafner, ’04, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Gaffney, S.C.

Mr. T. G. Hyman, ’04, is a successful real estate man in New Bern, N.C.

Mr. R. Y. McPherson, ’90, is in the insurance business in Raleigh, N.C.

Rev. W. A. Gillom, ’90, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Hammond, La.

Mr. Hill, ’20, is farming near Liberty, N.C.

Mr. “Lump” Richardson, former Davidson football star, and now president of the Davidson Alumni Athletic Association, was on the hill last Friday and Saturday.

The following old men were on the hill during the past week paying a visit to their Alma Mater: Jack Black, ’18, Miley, ’21, Bill Miley, ’21.

I. L. Wilkinson, ’22, is taking post-graduate work at the University of Virginia.

George W. H. Neal, ’17, now of Charlotte, N.C., is winning many compliments on his singing. Davidson expects him to take a place in a class with Everett Bishop, ’12, who recently gave a recital in Shearer Hall.

Hugh K. Aiken, ’11, is a chemical engineer with the Dupont Company, located at Wilmington, Del.

W. Sanford Golden, ex-’16, is treasurer of the J. Stout Company, general contractors at N.G.

A. M. Fairley, Jr., ’16, is living at 226 West Adams street, Chicago, Ill.

Louis B. Dougherty, ex-’19, is a banker at Liberty, Mo.

F. L. Knight, ex-’20, is studying medicine at the University of Virginia.

Henry Le Roy Moore, ’08, is teaching Physics in Carnegie Institute of Technology, at Pittsburgh, Pa.

H. P. Morrow, ’20, is cashier of the First National Bank of Albemarle, N.C.

M. J. Shirley, ’15, is a merchant at Honea Path, S.C.

Shepherd K. Nash, ex-’15, is a member of the law firm of Harby, Nash and Hodges, at Sumter, S.C.

George B. Hoyt, ’16, is living at 226 Myrtle street, Atlanta, Ga. He is a fire insurance adjuster.

McAlister Carson, ’13, and Mrs. Carson announce the birth of McAlister, Junior. Mr. Carson is a prominent business man of Charlotte, N.C. His home is in Myers Park.

PERSONAL PARAGRAPHS

The board of directors of the Lindenburg-Delburg Mill held its regular meeting on last Saturday, for the purpose of outlining the business for the coming year.

Mrs. Dupuy, mother of George Dupuy, ’24, has been a visitor for several days at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. Lee Sloan.

Miss Lila McGhee, of Charlotte, spentLast weekend with her aunt, Mrs. Rie. Misses Lizzie and Mary Young were visitors in Charlotte last week, going especially for the lecture of Hugh Walpole. Among the weekend visitors on the hill were Misses Marjorie McLeod and Margaret Hasten, students at Queens College, Charlotte. Dr. and Mrs. Doyle, of Baltimore, Md., have returned home after having spent several days with Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell. Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, during her stay in Davidson, was the guest of Mrs. E. J. Erwin.

The Book Lovers’ Club was host to the Thelemite Book Club Saturday evening. Doctor Martin and family are planning to spend the Christmas holidays in Fayetteville as the guests of Mrs. Martin's sister, Mrs. T. G. Hearn. Mrs. Hearn has as her guest this week, her mother, Mrs. Chatham, of Charleston, S.C. Miss Charlotte Shaw visited her brother in Charlotte last week. Doctor Arbuckle was one of the principal speakers at the older boys’ conference held at Raleigh last week. Doctor Hood was a visitor to Concord last week.

After her lecture Tuesday evening, Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen was highly entertained by the Thelemite Book Club. Prof. and Mrs. Wood will have Professor Wood's parents, Dr. and Mrs. Wood, of Charlottesville, Va., as their guests during the holidays. Doctor Justice and Mr. J. C. Caddell attended the Shriners meeting in Charlotte last week. Mr. and Mrs. A. C. Doyle left Wednesday for their home in Baltimore, after a pleasant visit at the home of their daughter, Mrs. Wilson MacConnell. Mrs. Cain, of Washington, D.C., is visiting her sister, Mrs. P. W. Tool.

The Epworth League held its regular business meeting Monday night at the Methodist Church. The many friends of Mr. Jesse McConnell will be glad to learn that he is again in good health. Mrs. Nancy Moore Oliver and daughter, Miss Toll, of Denver, Col., are guests of Mrs. McConnell. Mrs. Robert Harding and R.C. Harding are the guests of Dr. and Mrs. Harding. Coach and Mrs. Hugh Grey will spend Christmas in Greenwood, S.C., while Coach and Mrs. Hengevelt will spend Christmas in Waycross, Ga. Mrs. Wilson McConnell, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, and Mr. and Mrs. Doyle motored to Blowing Rock last week.

Dr. Fraser Hood spoke at the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Charlotte last Sunday in the interest of the Davidson campaign. Dr. and Mrs. Hood and daughter, Miss Kolista, leave next week to spend Christmas at their old home in Mississippi. Dr. and Mrs. Martin and family plan to spend the holidays with relatives in Fayetteville. Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, while in Davidson, was the guest of Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Mrs. Schenck was among those who attended the Hugh Walpole lecture in Charlotte. Miss Lucy Shumaker is very ill at her home with the flu. Doctor Hood spoke at the University Women’s Club at the Y.M.C.A. in Charlotte last week.

DR. JOHN M. WELLS IS TO ADDRESS Y.M.C.A.

Dr. John M. Wells, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, will speak to various religious organizations on the campus. On Sunday, Doctor Wells held his first pastorate at Buena Vista, Va. In 1900, he became pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N.C. Under his ministry, the church grew to be a tower of strength in the Southern Presbyterian Church, both in gifts and in the number of those entering the ministry and mission work. In 1921, Doctor Wells was called to the presidency of Columbia Seminary. Since he took charge of the Seminary, the whole body has increased about 50 percent in the two years Doctor Wells has had control. Additional dormitory facilities have been added. Every part of the Seminary has been moving forward under his hand.

In 1917-18, Doctor Wells was moderator of the General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church. During that year and several succeeding ones, he was chairman of the Assembly's committee on closer relations between the various Presbyterian bodies. Doctor Wells will be remembered from last year as a man who understands young men’s problems and as a speaker of force and earnestness. He will speak to the Volunteer and Ministerial Bands Sunday morning and at the Y.M.C.A. service that evening. Saturday afternoon and Monday morning he will hold personal conferences with any man concerning his life work and with men other than those from the Synods of North Carolina, Virginia, and West Virginia about Columbia Seminary. Frank Johnston will make arrangements with each student who desires a conference as to the time Doctor Wells will be able to talk to them.

USUAL RAIN AND MUD ATTENDS SPEAKING WEEK

Dame Fashion certainly picked a nice time to issue the decree for long skirts, for while they may be alright elsewhere, they surely don’t go at Davidson. No, the boys don't object, but Nature conflicts with old Lady Fashion's plans in the form of rain, rain, regular old Davidson rain—the wettest on earth. If you don't believe it, just ask anyone who was present on the hill during Senior Speaking, and you will learn that skirts which hang three inches from the ground have no place on walks four inches deep in mud. Here’s to short skirts, long may they wave.

One of the greatest expenses incurred by the Senior class was the team of mules which they hired to pull the cars out of the campus mud. Several of the cars are still missing. Another great calamity on account of the mud was Joe Sostick's claim to have lost a pack of Chesterfields which belonged originally to Snag Baily. To return to the main subject, the visiting girls created quite a stir in the mud. The golf course was not so popular this year due to the fact that it was so muddy that not even golf could be played on it. The best faces this year were the flag pole for the timid ones and the steps of Shearer for the more experienced. About the only thing left of interest to the visitors would have been the Commissary, and they all said that they could be robbed at home without coming up here to have it done. At any rate, the mud had the old Wildcat fighting spirit—it stuck with them through thick and thin. Although the mud in the streets was terrible, no Sir Walter Raleighs were developed.

If You Have Money, We Want It. If You Need Money, We Have It.

Morris Plan Bank
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Did you ever think about making that account with which you pay all bills, secure against FORGERY? Fire Insurance, Life Insurance, Accident and Health Insurance, we write these lines and they cost money which is supplied through your bank.

McAlister Carson, Manager
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.

WHY IS THE WACHOVIA?

You are cordially invited to use our facilities.

WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.
NORTH CAROLINA
Winston-Salem
Asheville
Salisbury
High Point
Raleigh

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000

A. H. SON, Vice-President
W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. A. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier