THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT OF PAPER IS ALTERED

Several changes have been made in the Manager’s department of The Davidsonian recently. The failure of James Allen, one of
the assistant business managers, to return this year, necessitated a new appointment. In view of this and other considerations, it
was thought best to reorganize the department completely, so a new system of management has been worked out. Under this
system, there have been three additions to the staff and the work has been evenly and systematically divided. The personnel
of the staff as it now stands is as follows: W. J. Cooper, business manager; G. E. Weeks, W. G.
Guille, J. H. Davis, and R. L. Price, advertisement solicitors; E. F. Bosch, advertisement lay-out man, and James McCutchen, office
assistant.

In the soliciting of advertising, the solicitors have been assigned to fields as follows: Weeks and Price—Charlotte territory; Guille—Statesville, Winston-Salem,
Greensboro, and Salisbury; Davis—the College, Davidson, and Mooresville. Under this system, each of the solicitors has a definite field in
which to work and their work does not overlap.

PHILANTHROPIC WILL HAVE ANNUAL SPONSOR

W. S. Buchanan, editor of The Quips and Cranks, met with the Phi Society last Thursday night, October 5, and
urged the society to have a sponsor this year, as the annual staff is giving more space than usual to
the Literary Societies. The Phi heartily agreed with the suggestion and voted that the president choose the sponsor. Three new
men were initiated, M. S. Beall, L. E. Calhoun, and R. D. White. R. M. Cochrane was reinstated. This makes
the Phi membership total 50.

W. P. Brown and P. J. Story upheld the affirmative side of the discussion, Resolved, That the convention system is
better than the direct primary, in party politics. J. E. Holtzhouser and R. J. Smith upheld the negative. The speakers
made up in pep what they lacked in argument. The judges rendered a unanimous decision in favor of the negative.
W. G. Houck gave an oration on the Basis of Our Modern Civilization. After the extemporaneous debate by M. P.
Calhoun and F. S. Johnston, the society adjourned.

PROFESSOR WAGNER IS METROPHILIAN CRITIC

The program of the Metrophilian Society on October 3 was in the nature of an encouragement to public speaking and
points in its development. The president, L. P. Burney, presided, and the society was favored in having Professor Wagner act
as critic for the meeting. J. D. Bernhardt, in his speech on the Conversational Speaker, gave a good example of
one. P. C. Henderson went to the point in his Plan of a Public Speech and brought out many worthwhile
thoughts for use in getting up a speech. R. L. Price gave an example of an argument. In his discussion
of the value of College Shops, he pictured the many advantages to Davidson students of such an arrangement. W. A.
Patterson ended the program with a well-prepared declamation on Universal Education.

Professor Wagner’s criticism was of interest and value to everyone present. He did not mince words but hit the nail
on the head every time, telling each speaker where his good points lay and plainly bringing out each fault. With
such a criticism, the society members were all stirred to do better work and seek to avoid the faults found
in their attempts. One new member, W. A. Latta, was accepted into the society. The meeting closed with an expression
of appreciation to Professor Wagner for his interest and help in the program.

WALLACE MOORE CHOSEN PRESIDENT PANDEIMICS

The program committee as well as the participants in the program of the Pandeimic Society certainly deserve an abundance of
credit for the splendid program that was rendered last Friday evening. It was one of the most interesting and best-rounded
meetings that have been held this year. The Scripture reading and invocation were followed by a debate, Resolved, That political
primaries should be abolished in favor of party conventions. The affirmative was ably upheld by Bryant and Monk, while the
negative was supported by J. E. Moore and H. L. Currie. The points for each side were well brought out
but the vote of the house as well as that of the judges showed that the negative had a decided
edge in the argument.

An interesting declamation by L. L. Deck, the subject of which was “Courage,” followed the debate. On account of the
election and other business which was to follow, the oration by J. H. Davis was postponed. Among the items of
business, it was voted to change the time of meeting from 9 o’clock Friday night to 7:15, Tuesday night. The
election of officers resulted as follows: President, Wallace Moore; vice-president, Warren Cox; secretary, Chalmers McIlwaine; first critic, John H. Grey;
second critic, Perrin H. Hodgins; sergeant at arms, L. S. Gibbs. Interesting talks were made by Franklin and Speedy Carr
during the election.

SIGMA UPSILON MEETS FOR INITIATING MEN

The local chapter of the Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity had a very interesting meeting last Monday night. SixNew men were
initiated into the fraternity, after which a short business session was held. Plans were laid for the work to be
covered during the fall semester. A one-act play is to be studied especially during the present session. There were several
faculty members present and also some distinguished visitors from Charlotte. Among those were Mr. Alexander, '15, and R. M. McIlwaine,
'22. Refreshments were served at the conclusion of the meeting.

LIBRARY NEWS

Among the new books added to the library recently is the "Moonlight Schools," written by Cora Wilson Stewart, in which
she presents the story of these schools and the achievements of adults, often at an advanced age, who have escaped
from the darkness of illiteracy by way of these schools. Another book that should be of special interest to all
lovers of nature is "The Open Spaces," by John C. Van Dyke. This book deals with life under the open
skies and is ably discussed by this recognized authority on outdoor life. "Memories and Notes of Persons and Places—1852-1912," by
Sidney Colvin, is an interesting book of memories that can only come from first-hand impressions of the author. Another book
added is "Voice Production in Singing and Speaking," by Mills. Among the new books of fiction are "The Blue Circle,"
by Elizabeth Jordan; "The Vanishing Point," by Coningsby Dawson, and "The Crystal Heart," by Phyllis Bottome. During the first three
weeks of college, 212 students registered at the librarian’s desk for books.

CHARLOTTE JOURNALIST

(Continued from Page One)

was: “Christ is the Greatest Egoist of the ages,” and it was on this sentence that Mr. Miller based his
address. “At first thought,” said the speaker, “this may seem to you to be sacrilege, but when you really consider
the thought implied in those words, it is a compliment, if such can be paid, to Christ.

“The Church is not progressing more today because it refuses to assert its authority. Christ was not boastful and vainglorious,
but He showed that He was the Christ. The Master said, ‘I am the alpha and the omega, the first
and the last.’ Christ is the origin and consummation of everything. He not only made us and all that we
have, but He is our consummation.

“This world will soon be engaged in another war such as the last great World War if there is not
a change in the near future. The cause for this condition is that the governments of the world are rendering
unto Caesar the things that are Caesar’s, but they are refusing to render unto God the things that are God’s.
The world is not, nor will it ever be, safe for democracy until the governments of the world realize that
they exist not for their own glory, but for the glory of God.

“He is the consummation of all education. Education of the mental and physical powers, without that spiritual education, cannot lead
to the right consummation.

“He is the Omega of character. God will not be the Omega of anything until He becomes the Omega of
the characters of the people of this world.”

In closing, Mr. Miller said, “There are centuries of learning at your command, but the benefit that you, young men,
will get from this is according to the degree that Christ is given the preeminence in your life.”

After the singing of “Stand Up, Stand Up for Jesus,” Dunbar H. Ogden dismissed the meeting with prayer. The entire
service was held without the light of a single electric bulb. The electric power went off just before the meeting
began and remained so throughout the hour. An oil lamp furnished the only illumination.

Now is the time to subscribe.

FROM GILBERT

"Word mongers" and "chattering barbers," Gilbert called those of his predecessors who asserted that a wound made by a magnetized
needle was painless, that a magnet will attract silver, that the diamond will draw iron, that the magnet thirsts and
dies in the absence of iron, that a magnet, taken with sweetened water, will cure headaches and prevent fat. Before
Gilbert died in 1603, he had done much to explain magnetism and electricity through experiment—that by hammering iron held in
a magnetic meridian it can be magnetized. He discovered that the compass needle is controlled by the earth’s magnetism and
that one magnet can remagnetize another that has lost its power. He noted the common electrical attraction of rubbed bodies,
among them diamonds, as well as glass, crystals, and stones, and was the first to study electricity as a distinct
force. “Not in books, but in things themselves, look for knowledge,” he shouted. This man helped to revolutionize methods of
thinking—helped to make electricity what it has become. His fellow men were little concerned with him and his experiments. “Will
Queen Elizabeth marry—and whom?” they were asking. Elizabeth’s flirtations mean little to us. Gilbert’s method means much. It is the
method that has made modern electricity what it has become, the method which enabled the Research Laboratories of the General
Electric Company to discover new electrical principles now applied in transmitting power for hundreds of miles, in lighting homes electrically,
in aiding physicians with X-rays, in freeing civilization from drudgery.

General Electric Company
General Office
Schenectady, NY
