. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1922

Football Dope

Now that the gridiron season is fast drawing to a close, the dopester is in quite a coma to pick
the best eleven of the year. It seems, even more than usual, that no team has enough good points to
be of championship calibre. Take, for example, the Asheville Normal School of Physical Education, which has a team with wonderful
backs, but absolutely no line. Whereas a line is the only thing developed by the Martin School for Speech Correction,
the same is true of the State School of Elocution and Oratory. One team, from which wonders were expected, seems
to be particularly stiff and dead, this is the one from the National Embalmer's College. Probably the liveliest team and
the one always on the jump is from Doctor Whitton’s School for Nervous Children. The International School of Correspondence’s eleven
has a number of cross plays, which they claim wonders for. The Atlanta School of Photography has considerable snap and
flash but so far has failed to develop anything worth while. The most consistent gains have been made by Madame
X’s How to Get Fat School. There is some question as to whether the best footwork on the gridiron is
being done by the Russian School of Dancing team, or by the Associated Chiropodists’ eleven. Taking everything in consideration, the
survey shows that the best all-round team is the one representing Wm. Watson’s Beef Trust Chorus Training School.

Didn't “Red” Edgerton display the “vim, win, and vigor” on the field last Saturday in the old Davidson way?

Ignorance of the law is no excuse they say, but if there ever has been two more “dumb bell cops”
than those two, please page the asylum and relieve our curiosity.

Heard at the Auditorium at the dance Saturday night during the first work out:
Joe Bostick—“Have you this dance?”
Fresh Scott—“Not yet.”
Joe Bostick—“Please hold this stogie while I dance.”

It’s All in the Point of View

If a girl asked you, “Do you like my calf?”—it wouldn't mean anything if she were a dairy maid but
if—

A MERRY DRAMA In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial;
in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

ACT THE TENTH, The Tale of a Sheep.

(The Freshman here introduced craves information on the subject of dress—let us hope that he follows the advice he gets).

Mack—How's this for a poem?
Bill—(shaving) Through the encompassing lather—Have a heart, I’m defenseless.
Mack—Winnie's gayly dancing feet Fly on fairy wings: Silver bells ring, clear and sweet, When Belinda sings. Fair and true
and talented Are they all—but then Little Chloe knocks them dead; Chloe gets the men.
Bill—(He has finished). Well that wasn’t so bad after all.

Fresh—Say Bill where are you going.
Bill—Ask me no questions and I'll tell you no lies.
Fresh—As you will—but say you are sporting the glad rags.
Bill—Rags a la Jakey Smith me son, verdad?
Mack—Talk English.
Bill—I will.
Fresh—Say those socks look the stuff,
Bill—They are.
Fresh—Where didst get?
Bill—Charlotte, Ed Mellon’s, Interwoven’s.
Fresh—Nuf Sed. But I’m interested in the cost.
Bill—This pair I have on—silk and wool—cost me a dollar. Over there in my trunk I've some that cost me
one buck and four bits and a couple o’ pair that set me back only six bits. Darn good socks,
too.
Fresh—Think that I will have to get some next time I go down.—adv.

If you asked a girl, “How old are you?”—it wouldn't mean anything if you were a census taker. But if
you weren't it might mean a few letters less a week in the P. O. box.

If a man came up to you and said, “Here’s twenty dollars”—it wouldn't mean anything if he were inebriated. But
if he were not you would have to page Mr. Diogenes and tell him about it.

If a sweet little girl should ask you, “Will you please see me home?”—it doesn’t mean anything. But—The deuce it
doesn’t!!!!

Price—Do you know why our tank is like a good man?
Hurd—No, why?
Price—Because it stands high in the community and is rarely ever full.

Well, if they really must wear these ribbed wool stockings, long skirts are a blessing after all.

J. C. O'Brien's minstrels certainly received a “green” reception on the eve of their performance. By the term, “green” is
meant the willful and malicious throwing of “mock oranges.” The personnel of the minstrel well remembering the actions of the
famous KU KLUX KLAN made haste their departure and the setting sun found them in a new voting precinct.

Decorated Uncle Baxter who is the latest acquisition to Uncle Sam's forces in Davidson, and who has shown marvelous proficiency
in plain and fancy paper sticking is in line for the honor of the D. O. D. M. C. (Distinguished
Order Dilapidated Mail Carriers). This is an honor to which we all might aspire and we should congratulate Baxter for
his promotion.

Jazz This on Your Jew’s Harp

The latest song hit, a plaintive little ballad, entitled—"I’ve named my old cow Davidson, because she's been dry so long.”

Incomplete

A girl wrote to her brother in college and asked him if it would be possible for him to send
her a “forward pass” so she could go to the next game for nothing. The girl says she is very
fond of sports. She must be!

Heard at Brady’s
Fresh Bachman—Man can't live on bread alone,
Fresh Crane—No,pass the water.

D. BEARERS ENTERTAIN TWO GIRL SCOUT PATROLS

On Saturday evening, November 18th at the Civic League Hall, the first patrol of the Scouts, better known as “Bearers,”
entertained in honor of the second and third patrols. The hall was beautifully decorated with white and yellow chrysanthemums. Many
interesting and enjoyable games were played, after which refreshments were served. Those who attended were: Misses Johnsie Shelton, Katherine Potts,
Elizabeth Potts, Bonnie Shelton, Mr. W. Thompson, Louise Thompson, Mary Grace Brown, Mattie Goodrum, Julia Thompson, Edith Mooney, Sara Withers,
Virginia Shumaker, Helen Dewane, Susie Jackson, Daisy Caldwell, Helen Proctor, Sophia Cathey, Sara Thompson, Mildred Mooney, and Elizabeth Thompson.

SUNDAY GOLF TAKES ON MATRIMONIAL ASPECT

“What God has joined together, let no man put asunder,” were the words spoken in the yard of the cabin
on the golf links Sunday afternoon when Mac, the dusky chef of Thompson's boarding house, was united in matrimony to
the preparer of victuals at Mrs. Bramlett’s. At 3:10 the bridal procession proceeded from the interior of the cabin to
the selected spot under a tree and the ceremony was begun. The bride, who was a comely brunette, appeared dressed
in a blue dress and with a beautiful white rose in her hair, a pleasing contrast to her general appearance.
The bridesmaid wore a costume of solid white and carried out well her color scheme of black and white. The
groom throughout the entire ceremony appeared as the happiest of men, wearing a smile from ear to ear, the effect
of which was felt and evidenced by many of the guests and spectators. The guests included the colored people of
the town and surrounding community. The wedding was witnessed by many of the college boys as well as townspeople.

TOWN NEWS

Last Thursday night the Young Ladies’ Circle of Davidson gave a pageant entitled “Christianizing America.” Miss Susie Brady represented America,
while Mrs. Dusenbury took the part of the Southern church. Miss Jean Martin represented Home Missions. The other 12 or
15 of the cast represented the methods for carrying on the work of the missions, and the needs in the
home mission fields. Each of the parts was well taken and the pageant gave a good impression of what is
being done in home missions. An impressive ending was made by the singing of “America” by the entire company. The
Self-Denial offering made at this pageant amounted to $130. This sum will go to the fund being collected for the
purpose of rebuilding the Stuart Robertson Memorial School at Blackey, Kentucky, which was destroyed by fire last winter.

Last Thursday there was an all-day quilting party in the Civic League Hall. This party produced fine results and more
quilts were made for the Barium Springs Orphanage. Those who attended this meeting brought their lunch in order that they
might sew and quilt the whole day.

The Thelemites will meet with Mrs. Porter Friday afternoon. Papers will be read by Mesdames Fleagle and Wood.

The Book Lovers’ Club met last Friday afternoon with Mrs. Lingle. Mrs. J. R. Withers read a paper on Italian
Art. Papers were also read by Mesdames Lingle and Arbuckle. The subjects were Michael Angelo and Raphael, respectively.

Miss Eloise Martin arrived Friday to spend the weekend at home. She left again Monday.

Miss Annabelle Martin, of Farmville, Va., has been visiting Mrs. A. Currie. She left Monday to visit in Spartanburg.

Mrs. A. Currie is out again after a week's illness. Mrs. Wood, who has been quite ill, has recovered.

Mrs. Erwin went to Hendersonville recently.

Mrs. Hood will spend the Thanksgiving holidays with her daughter, Miss Kalista, who is at St. Mary’s in Raleigh.

James Wharey Grey, of Hendersonville, spent the weekend at Doctor Grey's.

Doctor and Mrs. Lingle will spend the Thanksgiving holidays in Wilmington, N.C.

Some of the visitors on the hill Sunday were Misses Wharton, Plowden, and Krist, of Greensboro.

Mr. Sam Black, a brother of Mrs. Emma Black, spent the weekend with Mrs. Black.

A club has been organized by the members of the faculty. The officers are as follows: Professor Porter, president; Professor
A. Currie, vice-president; and Professor Fleagle, secretary and treasurer. The officers, together with Doctors Harding and Shewmake, constitute the board
of governors. It is a discussion club and is to meet once a month. It is stated that a few
men not members of the faculty will be asked to join.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young are in Concord visiting Mrs. J. P. Allison.

Mrs. Erwin and children, accompanied by Miss Margaret Adams and Messrs. Haney and McLaurin, motored to Rock Hill recently.

The Civic League will have a bazaar on Tuesday, December the 5th.

The Ladies Missionary Society of the Methodist Church gave a measuring party at Mr. Lester Hannah’s last Thursday night. One
of the various forms of amusement was a guessing contest. The prize winners were Mr. Alfred McConnell and Morris Sigmon.
Refreshments were served.

Mr. Caldwell Bradford, who lives near Huntersville, had his left arm badly mangled in a corn shredder last Tuesday. The
arm was so badly crushed that Doctor Withers and Doctor MacConnell found it necessary to amputate it. He spent the
night after the operation in the college infirmary, returning home the following day.

Miss Flora Stewart came home from Charlotte to spend Sunday.

Mr. Dave Cowan and Misses Mattie and Anne Cowan were the guests of Mr. and Mrs. G. C. Gibson. They
are from Charlotte.

It is stated that the new post office will open Wednesday.

Tobe Johnson will move his pressing establishment to the old post office stand.

Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies, Jr., spent the weekend in Charlotte at the home of Mr. Thies’ father.

Mr. and Mrs. Don Mundy, of Morganton, spent Sunday with Mrs. Mundy’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Goodrum.

Miss Elizabeth Potts spent last Wednesday in Charlotte.

Mrs. Earle Vite, of Charlotte, spent last Thursday with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Christenbury.

You don't know how a typewriter would help me in my work—and Christmas is not so far away. A Remington
Portable would suit me best. Just write the college representative.

W. J. COOPER
Box 365
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
