Hear Doctor Mitchell
THE DAVIDSONIAN

Hear Doctor Hoffman
FOR A “BETTER DAVIDSON”

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 3, 1922. No. 18

Two Excellent Addresses At the “Y” During Exams Last Week
GIBSON AND R. L. McLEOD ASSIST CHEER LEADERS

A. V. Gibson and Bob McLeod were elected assistant cheer leaders for the rest of the college year. Two prominent
speakers addressed the students at the “Y” vesper services during the two weeks of examinations. Both speakers were men of
pleasing personality and much spiritual power and did the students a great deal of good.

Meeting January 22nd
On Sunday evening, January 22nd, the Rev. Samuel Polk, of Lawrenceville, N. J., gave an interesting and appealing talk at
the “Y” vesper service on “The Strength of Jesus.” Introductory humorous remarks won the will of the audience and the
address followed. Some people have the mistaken idea, the speaker said, that physically Christ was a weak, sickly man. Some
pictures indicate this. The question arises as to why an Executive great enough to create the universe, did not make
His only Son a strong, red-blooded man. But, was Christ really this type of man? We justly say that after
spending thirty years as a carpenter He was strong and vigorous. The remaining three years of His life were spent
walking up and down Palestine. His muscles certainly were strong and enduring. The record of His driving the money changers
from the temple is an example of His strength. Although Christ, with His superb mental and physical qualities, had many
enemies, He was also popular among both rich and poor. They considered it an honor to have Him in their
homes. The belief that Christians should not have a good time is false. Christ believed in having a good time.
He said, “Rejoice in the Lord always; and again I say, rejoice.” While “The way of the transgressor is hard.”
Evidences of Christ’s power today are numerous. In football He answers prayer. This fact has been well demonstrated by the
Centre team. In answer to a prayer, James K. Polk worked a problem in mathematics, which five hundred men had
failed on. In every walk of life Christ is the truest and best friend a person can have. “If any
man will do His will, he shall know of the teaching, whether it is of God, or whether I speak
of myself.” Mr. Polk is at present pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Lawrenceville, N. J. During the war he
was connected with the Y. M. C. A. as a physical director.

Meeting January 29th
An interesting lecture on Africa by Professor of History at the University of Richmond, Dr. S. C. Mitchell, will speak
to the members of the student body in Shearer Hall at 7:30 p.m. Saturday, February 4th. The subject will be
the “Vocation of the Christian Teacher.” This is to be the first of a series of lectures on the vocations,
to be given at Davidson College during the remainder of the year and through the ensuing year. These lectures should
prove interesting and beneficial, especially to those who have not definitely decided upon their life work. Without doubt the three
greatest vocations, the three which offer the greatest chances to render material service to mankind, are the ministry, the medical
profession, and teaching. Davidson College prepares many men for these vocations, but the last falls short. Therefore Professor Mitchell’s address
comes at an opportune time. Professor Mitchell comes to us highly recommended and it is indeed fortunate that he was
obtained to speak on the vocation of teaching. His experiences make him especially well versed on this subject. He was
formerly president of the University of South Carolina, later president of the Medical College of Virginia, and now holds the
chair of History at the University of Richmond. Professor Mitchell is both a humorous and animated speaker, and he has
something to say that will be of interest to all.

DR. EDWIN HOFFMAN SPEAKS AT THE “Y” ON NEXT SUNDAY
Another excellent speaker has been secured for “Y” vesper services, Dr. Edwin M. Hoffman of Salisbury. Dr. Hoffman is an
old friend of Davidson, and a coming speaker. After finishing at Davidson, Doctor Hoffman served as “Y” secretary. His address
is sure to be full of rich experience and observation. Being a young man, Dr. Hoffman will speak from the
point of view of a young man, so Shearer Hall should be crowded to the doors on next Sunday night.

Birthday of Robert E. Lee Appropriately Celebrated
Dr. J. M. McConnell Makes Impressive Talk at Chapel Services.
On Thursday morning, January 19th, Dr. J. M. McConnell made a short but rousing address to the student body in
chapel, the occasion being the birthday of Robert E. Lee, the South's hero. Doctor McConnell emphasized the fact that the
glory won by General Lee has been left as a heritage not to Washington and Lee University or to the
state of Virginia any more than to the whole South. In summing up Lee's character Doctor McConnell mentioned the fact
that he graduated at West Point with highest honors and that at all times he conducted himself as a gentleman,
a soldier, and a leader.

Davidson Boys Make Good Showing
Local High School Quint Defeated by College Men.
Last Saturday night, after the movies, the light Davidson High School quint went down in defeat before the whirlwind attack
of the Wildcat Scrub team, who snowed under their lighter and less experienced opponents to the tune of 36-22. The
Scrubs took the lead from the start and were never headed by their opponents. The erratic passing of the High
School team proved fatal to their chances, for the Scrubs took advantage of every error. Time after time they passed
the ball into the hands of a waiting man who made it good for two points. On the other hand
the Scrubs lost many a point by their poor shooting, being unable to locate the basket accurately. The Scrubs started
off with a rush, caging four baskets in a row before the High School could stop them. Dick Grey then
shot a basket for the High School lads’ first score. The age and experience of the Scrubs was too much
for the High School quint, who fought like demons, but were unable to diagnose the plays of their opponents.Carpet for
Several Days

Dr. J. O. Reavis drew an unusually large attendance at the “Y” service last Sun- (Continued on page 2)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

You cannot shoot Taurus and the professors, too!

Priests of Mystic Whiteness Initiate New Members. Last week the powers that be ruled that Davidson should have a snow.
It came. With the firmness of the ground, little time was taken to cover it with a robe of white.
Soon afterward, festivities of the International Knights of Neptune began. This organization is better known to students as the “Aqua
Club.” But when we turn to the Priests of Mystic Whiteness, we rise up to ask some questions. Where were
the many members of said Aqua Club who were initiated last year? Why were festivities of said club left to
the Fresh to enjoy? Something unusual has happened, for ne’er before in these parts have Freshmen been seen to take
such an active part in the winter sport. ’Tis true the elder Knights lacked the leadership of such worthy priests
as Douglass and (Continued on page 2)

Fellows, you who come will enjoy it and you who do not will miss a good time.

Spring Term Program is to Be Full of Activity

Let's all go! Glee Club, and “Y” Booming. Although the spring term, which began with the first day of February,
will be of only four months’ duration as compared with heretofore, a forecast of student activities reveals the fact that
it will be a period of unusual activity. The athletic slate points to a number of interesting engagements. With basketball
season in full swing and a number of games scheduled for the home court, the Wildcats should be able to
uphold the records of former Davidson “quints,” or even set a new standard toward which future squads can climb. Baseball
and track will come in for their share of interest immediately following the basketball season. The prospects for baseball are
uncertain as yet, only four of last year’s letter men returning, but it is rumored that there is an unlimited
wealth of material among the new men. Track aspirants are numerous and reports have it that Davidson will send a
splendid team into the field this year that will cover itself with honors. Six of last year’s “cinder packers” are
back, and they will render a good account of themselves. Although no definite arrangements have been made, it is a
certainty that the tennis team will enter several tournaments, among which will be the State tournament, for the selection of
State champions. It is expected that more than usual interest will be displayed in golf. The managers are working on
several (Continued on page 2)

In closing, Doctor McConnell quoted the nation-famous words of Senator Ben Hill, of Georgia:

Wildcat Quintette Defeats Wofford BasketMen 30-21

Woffordites Exhibit Good Class of Basketball. In easily the best and fastest game of the season, the Davidson quintet defeated
Wofford Wednesday night. It was the opening inter-collegiate game of the year and the Wildcats, led by Captain Crawford and
Mauze, showed up especially well. The long lay-off due to the recent exams affected the playing of the Red and
Black, but it is believed that they will be in mid-season form when N. C. State is met next Saturday
night. The Wofford crew was by far the cleverest team which has appeared on the local floor and their dribbling
and guarding was of high order. The Palmetto lads played a hard, clean game, but the floor and the Wildcat
team proved too much for them. Mauze, playing his first inter-collegiate game, went through the South Carolinians like a Kansas
cyclone, collecting no less than 16 points. Warhoss, elongated center, played the game of his life, collecting most of his
team’s points. Captain Crawford deserves a huge share of glory for the victory. In addition to hitting the meshes for
eight points, his wonderful defensive work kept him much in the limelight. Davis at the other guard also broke up
many of the ‘Terriers’ well-formed plans and was one of the chief factors in the victory. The visitors jumped into
a three-point lead before Cap Pat dumped in two buckets and Warhoss rang up another. The remainder of the half
was about even and at the close of the period Davidson was leading by three baskets, 13 to 7. The
second half was rough at times, but full of interest. The spectators were kept on edge throughout the period as
the score alternated. The Wildcats leading by a slight margin when Warhoss dropped in a nice goal from the floor,
a blow that finished the game for the hard-scrapping South Carolinians. Davis added another goal just before the game ended.

Summary

Davidson (30) Position Wofford (21)
Mallory (2) — Lindsay (15)
Stokes (0) — Cook (0)
Mauze (16) — Tillinghast (0)
Crawford (8) — Rogers (0)
Davis (2) — Collins (6)

Substitutes: Seall (2) for Mallory, Price for Davis, Williams for Stokes. Fouls: Lindsay 7 out of 12, Mauze 2 out
of 5. Referee: George (Va.)

Mr. and Mrs. Jackson and Misses Steele and Finlayson expect to attend the Kreisler concert in Charlotte, Monday.

WHAT'S DOING.

Friday, 4th—Basketball—N. C. State vs. Davidson, 8 p.m. Pictures after the game.
Saturday, 7:30 p.m.—Lecture, by Dr. Mitchell. Pictures after lecture.
Sunday, 6th—Volunteer Band, 10 a.m. C. E. Training Class, 1 p.m. Ministerial Band, 1:45 p.m. “Y” Meeting, 6:15 p.m.
Wednesday, 9th—Mission Study Classes, 9:30 p.m.
Thursday, 10th—Phi Society, 6:45 p.m.; Eu Society, 7:00 p.m.; Pandel- nic Society, 9:00 p.m.; Metrophil- jan Society, 9:00 p.m.

BON VOYAGE, FIGHTING FIVE!

Greater Davidson Club Renews Its Activities

Slogan “Five Hundred Again—Quality First,” Chosen. The Greater Davidson Club is once more entering upon its annual drive for a
better Davidson. Each member of the present student body is enrolled in the club, the aim of which has been
to fill Davidson with a set of sterling young men. The motto which the club has had for several years
was, “A bigger and better Davidson.” The goal was set for 500 students and by the first of July last
year far more than that number had applied for registration. This year a new motto has been chosen: “500 again—quality
first.” It is expected that 500 will be the utmost capacity of the college next year even with the addition
of the new dormitory which is to be erected east of Georgia; hence it is the aim of the club
to have a student body consist- (Continued on page 3)
