THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 28, 1922.

The Question of the Hour.
If skirts are lengthened how are we going to recognize our friends?

A college education is the penalty attached to a four-year loaf.

Ivory soap isn’t the only thing that is 99 44-100 per cent pure: (Use your head, man, use your head.)

Pastime.
“Mother, may I go to the dance tonight?”
“No, my darling Jill;
Father and I take in the thing,
You'll have to tend the still.”

After seeing a picture of Mother Eve, we understood better the meaning of the term “EVEning gown.”

Anyway, you'll have to admit the flappers today show more than their mothers did at the same age.

In the Morning.
After a night in Charlotte of taking in the Imperial, Keith’s, Piedmont, S. and W. Cafeteria, and the Mecklenburg, ain't it a grand and glorious feeling to wake up and find two bits.

“Bunk,” muttered the sailor, as he climbed into bed.

Davidson Assassinated Press.
Chink Woods sees movies Saturday night.
Jack Dempsey startles the Boarding House Saturday night.
Murdock McLeod vamps a girl Saturday night.
Duck Shepherd spends the weekend on the hill.

Sims is in a pretty bad hole.
Why! What's the matter?
Well, we buried him yesterday.

Some are born poor, others have poverty thrust upon them, and still others come to Davidson College.

Counsel—“I’m sorry I couldn’t do more for you.”
Convicted Client—“Don’t mention it, guv’nor, ain’t 20 years enough?”

A research, carried on by college men all over the country, has shown that there are only three kinds of girls:
1. Those who are going to set the world on fire.
2. Those who are going to reform the world.
3. Those who let her hang as she is.
The last mentioned group are those who are meant when we say, “To the ladies, heaven bless them!”

Overheard at the commissary during the tailoring display.
A certain Senior, McGukin by name, to the representative: “I'll tell you frankly, I can’t pay for this suit until next year.”
Tailor—“Oh, that’s all right.”
McGukin—“When can you finish it?”
Tailor—“Next year.”

The Height of Ill Luck.
Driving across the Sahara Desert and hit a fire hydrant.

Can you say that a nation without women is stagnation?

Any school will go to the dogs if it has too many tea hounds.

Postman—“Mail’s very crowded today. I'm over-loaded so I can hardly walk.”
Stude—“What’s the excitement?”
Postman—“The correspondence school is having a rally and they’re mailing a bonfire to each student!”

“Man wants little here below”— A mansion and a bank or so; A car, some girls—the car to fill— An old clay pipe, a home-made still.

If a Scotchman and a Jew should go in business together they would both go blind watching each other.

Fresh Mebane snores so badly at night that he has to stop up his ears so he does not wake himself up.

Secretary Lacy and Coach Moore took their canes out for a four-mile walk Saturday afternoon. Coach didn’t let his touch the ground but once.

A MERRY DRAMA.
ACT II—THE WILES OF MORPHEUS.
Scene: The same room, third floor Georgia, back.
The time: 11 p.m., and after.
L—(room-mate, are busy studying.) I crave sleep.
C—You've nothing on me.
L.—Morpheus child, we hear you a’callin’.
They don sleeping cases, his frame in a pink symphony; Carroll drapes around his person the tattered remnants of what was once a garment.
L.—Shades of Noah and the Green-Livered Imps, Bill--why the scare-crow makeup?
C.—They were last year, they are not now. Seems like I'll have to separate myself from the dough and get a few pair.
L.—Yea, indeed, garb thyself in the pink and silky kind, even as I, and thy slumbers will be joyful—oh boy! I can see you in ‘em now!
C.—What you think I am, a Commissary, partner?
L.—Well no—but if you would like the all softness of silk with the wear of cotton, Mellon has some—all done up in individual packages, “SKY-NO” make—that fill the bill and for only three-fifty a pair.
C.—Friend o’mine, come down a bit and then some more.
L.—Let’s see for two and three and MANHATTAN’S from three-fifty up to seven-fifty.
C.—Those VARSITY’S are more like it.
L.—And say, Mr. Fry says that whites, tans andBlues are the ones—fancies are taboo. Couple o’ weeks yet. Satisfaction guaranteed. (Adv.) (To be continued next week) —D.

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle returned from a trip to New York last Saturday. They motored from New York City to Philadelphia with some West Virginia friends. Miss Elizabeth Bell, of Lewisburg, W. Va., accompanied Doctor and Mrs. Arbuckle home for an extended visit.

CLASSIFIED ADS.

FOR SALE
All kinds of 5 and 10 cent Candies, Chewing gum, Salted Peanuts. George Fleming No. 1. Just arrived a fresh lot of Nunnallys. Young and Myers, 15 South Barracks. Correct stationery; quick service. Dew and Hanrahan, 5 South Barracks.

FOUND
Found a Parker fountain pen. See P. H. McAlpine, No. 14 Rumple.

LOST
Lost: A Waterman’s fountain pen with a niche in the cap. Finder please return to Red McComb, 19 Rumple.

FOR SALE
Seniors, buy your cards from us. Many styles to choose from. Dew & Hanrahan, No. 9 South Barracks. Six chairs suitable for dining room set, one chandelier, two letter files, and two card index files, in good condition. Reasonable. Summers, No. 12 Watts.

LOST
A mashie was taken from my room some time ago. I will appreciate its return or any information about it. Dent in its face. S. H. Bradley, No. 7 Watts. Tan coat with my name on the collar. Belt. Reward of $2 for return to No. 2 Rumple. C. B. Sanders.

Dr. J. M. Douglas will offer several courses in physics this summer if a sufficient number desire to take them. Those interested should contact him.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor, peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style. Meal hours: Breakfast 7:30 to 9, Dinner 11:45 to 2:30, Supper 5:30 to 8.

COMMENCEMENT
Kuppenheimer Good Clothes
“An investment in good appearance”

TIES SHIRTS SOCKS PAJAMAS WHITE DUCKS
H. M. MORRIS
Mecklenburg Hotel, Opposite Depot

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Hotel
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms, 150 With Private Bath
J.T. Matthews, Prop.
221 W. Trade St.

THE IMPORTANCE OF EDUCATION
“Knowledge does not comprise all which is contained in the large term of education. The feelings are to be disciplined; the passions are to be restrained; true and worthy motives are to be inspired; a profound religious feeling is to be instilled, and pure morality inculcated under all circumstances. All this is comprised in education.” —Daniel Webster

THE DAVIDSONIAN is indispensable to the Social, Athletic, Religious, and Educational activities of a Wildcat. Every member of the class of ’22 should place his renewal at once, so as to avoid forgetting it in the RUSH at commencement.

Date
Circulation Mgr.
DAVIDSONIAN
Davidson, N. C.

You outside Subscribers fill out and mail the Renewal-Blank. Enclosed please find $2.00 for my renewal for next year to the DAVIDSONIAN, today.

Name
Street Address
Town
State

(Tear off and mail)