4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

DAVIDSON HIGH WINS FROM CONCORD, 6-0

Last Friday on Sprunt Field in a closely contested and exciting game, the Davidson High School took Concord High School
into camp by the score, 6-0. Although the game was marred by frequent fumbles, both teams played good football. Davidson
received the kick-off and advanced the ball steadily down the field, but were soon forced to punt. Concord was unable
to gain and lost the ball. On the first play Dick Grey, starting on his own 30-yard line, zig-zagged around
right end for 70 yards and a touchdown, the only one of the game. Grey failed at try for goal.

The second quarter proved to be a see-saw affair with the ball in the middle of the field. The end
men on both teams did good work on tackling under punts. Black and Thompson for the Wildkittens did some good
ground gaining during this period.

During the second half Concord came back strong and made several nice gains through Davidson’s line. Sullivan, the stalwart Concord
back, distinguished himself several times by his offensive play work. The fourth quarter opened with the ball in Concord’s possession
on Davidson’s 30-yard line. In a cleverly executed fake, Riddenhour, the Concord quarter, made 15 around right end. Sullivan made
several yards through the Wildkittens center, but the ball went to Davidson on downs. Grey, standing back of his own
goal line, kicked to Riddenhour who returned 10 yards. Concord again started a rally with a cleverly executed pass, Sullivan
to Walker, and several line plays. MacConnell intercepted a pass on his own 10-yard line and the ball was the
Wildkittens’. The game ended with the ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line.

For the visitors, Riddenhour’s work at quarter and Sullivan at half were the features of the game. Grey, Black, and
Thompson did the best work for the locals, while Arbuckle and Riggs MacConnell at the end positions played good defensive
ball.

The student body extends its sympathies to R. W. Graves, who left last week for his home in answer to
an announcement of the death of his father.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” SPORTING GOODS Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods.
We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros. Rackets Restrung by an Expert Myers Hardware and Sporting
Goods Co. A. L. FAUL, Mgr. 18 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PROMISING MATERIAL IS SEEN FOR TENNIS

Despite the fact that the tennis team lost three of its four members, the prospects for another banner year seem
good. With Hugh Brindley as a foundation and such men as Mac Beale, Staley, Vic Brown, Henry Morris, and Harry
Price to pick from, there is no lack of promising material. However, a prediction of the personnel of the team
at this early date seems a bit out of order. When the fall tournament is finished everyone will be able
to see for himself how the final shifts are going to be made. As soon as the courts can be
put in good condition the tournament will be run off with as much speed as possible. Owing to the lack
of rain, the courts are in a deplorable condition but it is to be hoped that this will soon be
remedied. Besides merely putting the courts in condition, it is hoped that something can be done to provide new nets
and backstops. With the wonderful strides that tennis has made in popularity all over the country, there seems to be
no reason why the game should be allowed to go in decline at Davidson. In all probability, there will be
one or two matches with other colleges held on the Hill this fall, but there has been nothing definitely decided
on as yet. Next spring, however, the team will have a schedule calling for several matches as well as the
trip to the State tournament which will be held in Durham under the auspices of the Olympic Association. As soon
as the tournament has been finished, one court will be reserved for the use of the varsity, as in previous
years.

ATHLETICS

GEORGIA TECH’S TEAM AVERAGES 168 POUNDS

The wonder team of Southern football is still the “wonder team.” But this year it’s “wonder what they’re going to
do.” In sharp contrast to the supreme confidence that prevailed in Atlanta when Guyon, Strupper, Flowers, Harlan, and others held
forth on Grant Field, is the atmosphere of speculation that exists now. Last year they knew no one in the
football world could beat Tech. This year, with several of the old guard gone, they believe that they can come
through a hard schedule without a defeat. Coach Alex went so far as to say that Tech was sure of
only three games. We're wondering about one of those three. Wildcat stock took a leap upward when it was learned
that Oglethorpe, with a comparatively weak team, held Tech to a 31-6 victory. Without question, Tech has a good team
this year; any eleven that can boast of Red Barron and the Staton brothers, not to mention Davis, Huet, Johnson,
and others, is a good team. But it'll take a good team to stop the Wildcats—when they fight. The Golden
Tornado will line up for the kick-off with a team averaging 168 pounds. The line, from end to end, averages
172, while the backfield reaches the 161 mark. Oscar Davis at guard and the Staton boys on the flanks form
the nucleus for the line, while Red Barron, the 172-pound lightning bolt, is anchor man for the backfield. The Red
and Black has been seen on Grant Field nine times. Starting in 1902, the Presbyterians copped the first two verdicts,
but the last seven games have gone to the Georgians. The teams of '15, '16, and '17 gave Tech some
awful fights. These dates represented the “Golden Age” of Tech’s fame, and during this period the Wildcats made their best
record against the Golden Tornado. All the world loves a fighter and the people of Atlanta are no exception. That
they love to see a Davidson team in action was shown by the fact that in '17 the Wildcats drew
next to the largest crowd of the year. Due to the disappointing showing of the last three years, Atlanta and
Tech are expecting an easy game, but we wonder! Yes, Wildcats, we wonder!

GOLF TEAM CONFRONTED BY SEVERAL GOOD TRIPS

The golf season has opened at Davidson with a rush. Already the old men are getting out their rusty clubs
and already the new men are learning the game a la caddie. The course is being rapidly put in shape
by a large force of students, and soon will be ready for par golf. Much credit is due Doctor Arbuckle
for his untiring efforts to put golf on the map at Davidson. The team is unfortunate in losing Myers and
Gracy, however, Johnnie Bachman, Brice, and De Armond are still with us and going strong. Several new men are also
showing up well. Tournaments with the neighboring golf clubs will be arranged soon and several good trips are expected. In
the meantime, everybody is invited to come out and play. Let’s go fellows! FORE!

GLIMPSE OF THE GAME

S. M. DAVIS, D**

As the only triple D man on the team this year, Sam Davis has indeed proven himself a foe worthy
of respect and a friend deserving emulation. From a standpoint of pure stick-to-it-ive-ness, his superior has not been seen at
Davidson for years. Hailing from the town of St. Pauls, N. C., Sam cameto Davidson in the fall of '19
and has since shown himself to be a recognized leader in campus life. As a man, Davidson had no hesitancy
in placing in his trust the highest position in her power. As a good fellow, he is unexcelled, being perhaps
the most popular man in his class. But it is as a football player that Sam has won the admiration
and respect, not only of Davidson but of all those who have seen him play. He won his D in
his Freshman year, holding down the left flank on the varsity of '19. The following year he proved himself such
a valuable defensive player that he was shifted to tackle. Here he put up a stellar performance and he has
been kept in the line proper since that time. Speaking of his work, The Charlotte News said: “In the line,
Davis featured, putting up a gilt-edge performance.” In the fall of ’21, again at tackle, he received favorable mention for
all-state. This year he has again been shifted to guard, where he is playing even better than before. Starting in
at the first of every game fighting, struggling, giving his all to each play throughout the entire game, he is
always there at the final blow of the whistle with the same old never-say-die spirit which has ever been the
most prominent characteristic of the true Davidson Wildcat. Sam leaves us after this year and his loss will be severely
felt.

TIP FOR BUSY FATHERS

What are the most worthwhile things in life? Surely, among them must be classed one’s children. Neglect of their growing
children by tremendously busy men is notorious. While talking the other day with a man who has come to the
front extraordinarily in the financial world during recent years, he remarked to me: “I always take my holidays when my
boy gets his school holidays. I take off a week or 10 days around Christmas and also at Easter. Then
I always take my summer vacation when he is having his holidays and spend most of the time in his
company. I enjoy it and rather think he enjoys it. We're the very best of pals.” Now, there are few
men in America who do more business or do it more successfully than this man. He actively directs one of
the very largest organizations of its kind and he has built up a remarkable reputation. If he has found it
possible to spend so much time with his family, why would it not be possible for other busy men to
arrange to spend at least a reasonable amount of time with their children, particularly their growing sons? After all, is
there any better form of investment than investing time and thought and consideration in bringing up one’s own flesh and
blood? That it can be done without interfering in any way with one’s success in business, this man has convincingly
demonstrated—Ben Franklin Witness.

CHEAP PRINTING

“Your printing for nothing!” is the attractive heading of a number of advertisements now appearing in daily and weekly papers
throughout Holland, according to the British and Colonial Printer and Stationer, and Dutch printers generally are highly incensed. They have,
however, no remedy. These advertisements state the plain, bald truth—you can get your printing done in Germany for nothing, while
at the same time the German printer makes a reasonable profit on the transaction! It is all due to the
cheap mark. For printed matter, the postal rate in Holland is two cents. The German printers will for the same
amount print your circular, put it in an envelope, write the address, put on the stamp—a German stamp—and post it
to be delivered to your customer in Holland.

Important games of the week:
Davidson vs. Georgia Tech in Atlanta, Ga.
Georgia vs. Chicago in Chicago, Ill.
Clemson vs. Newberry in Clemson, S.C.
Pittsburgh vs. in Pittsburgh, Pa.
Princeton vs. Virginia in Princeton, N.J.
South Carolina vs. P.C. in Columbia, S.C.
Trinity vs. Hampden-Sidney in Durham, N.C.
V.P.I. vs. William and Mary in Blacksburg, Va.
Wake Forest vs. Elon in Wake Forest, N.C.
Washington and Lee vs. N.C. State in Lexington, Va.
Yale vs. North Carolina in New Haven, Conn.
Alabama vs. Oglethorpe in Tuscaloosa, Ala.

This list includes three intersection games of special interest. Three Southern teams will invade Yankeedom and attempt to show that
Southern football is up and coming. The Georgia Bulldogs meet Chicago in an affair that should be a fight from
the first kick-off. Both teams are leaders in their own sections, and both are confident of victory. The University of
North Carolina and Virginia take on Yale and Princeton respectively and will attempt to better their last year’s records, when
both went under to the counts of 34-0.

TECH-DAVIDSON
1900—Tech, 6; Davidson, 38.
1902—Tech, 5; Davidson, 7.
1906—Tech, 4; Davidson, 0.
1915—Tech, 21; Wildcats, 7.
1916—Tech, 9; Wildcats, 0.
1917—Tech, 32; Wildcats, 10.
1919—Tech, 33; Davidson, 0.
1920—Tech, 66; Davidson, 0.
1921—Tech, 70; Davidson, 0.
1922—Tech, ?; Wildcats, ?

Get wild team! Get wild!!

WITH OUR OPPONENTS

“Oh where, oh where has the Tornado gone,” is the song that is heard from all parts of the South.
A 31-16 victory over Oglethorpe in full 15-minute quarters is not as propitious as a 41-0 walk-over in 12-10 periods
but still the season is young and it wouldn't be a bad idea to watch Tech. The Center-Clemson fray was
fairly true to form but a second big surprise of the day came when Carolina steam-rolled, tore, crushed and otherwise
penetrated the Heckman one-man organization and hung up a 62-3 victory over Wake Forest. It’s useless to deny that Carolina
looks good, almost too good, and ought to give Yale a struggle Saturday. N.C. State presented an almost impregnable defense
against Randolph-Macon, but the Virginians hung up a safety on a blocked punt. The score was 20-2 as against 21-0
last year. Next Saturday the Wolfpack meets the Generals from Washington and Lee fresh from a 35-0 victory over Emory
and Henry. This game ought to give a good idea just about what State has this year. V.P.I. 25-King 6,
is another blaze on the Va.-Tech trail but not quite so decided a one as their rout of Hampden-Sidney last
week. The game Saturday was the first meeting of the two teams since 1896. Furman was unable to score as
many counts against Newberry as she did last year. At the end of three quarters the Hurricane had one lone
touchdown, but when Newberry weakened in the fourth period the total was run up to 33. Disaster seems to be
on the Hurricane’s trail all around, three men having been lost for various reasons the last two weeks. Last year
Trinity beat Guilford, 28-0, but this season the Methodist’s machine rolled over Guilford for a 43-0 victory. Trinity has a
good team but they are likely to meet a match in Greensboro. Wofford beat the North Georgia Aggies in the
first game, 20-0. No special strength was revealed by the Terriers, but it’s a long way to November 11th and
Coach “Rip” Major is on the job. Aside from our opponents, the most interesting games were Alabama’s 110-0 slaughter of
Marion and Auburn’s 72-0 defeat of Howard. Georgia, too, is still on the rampage, dragging 41 points from Mercier’s 200
plus line last week.
