The DAVIDSONIAN
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 P.M.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

STAFF:
Editor-in-Chief: H. H. SMITH
Forum Editor: D. D. HERING
First Managing Editor: R. C. AIKEN
Campus Editor: W. M. SMITH
Second Managing Editor: D. H. OGDEN
Y. M. C. A. Editor: W. T. ELLIOTT
Assignment Editor: H. M. MORRIS
Social Editor: I. H. COX
Athletic Editor: H. M. MORRIS
Literary Editor: B. C. AIKEN
Alumni Editor: W. Z. BRADFORD
Press Editor: W. M. COX
Exchange Editor: W. M. COX

REPORTERS’ CLUB:
A. N. BROWN, W. P., Pres.
J. R. MOFFETT, A. SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
R. R. JONES, C. V. BROWN, Sec-Treas.
W. I. KNOX, M. MOSS, O. J. ALLISON, T. A. LACY, H. B. PRICE, R. BITZER, C. M. McILWAINE, C.
D. TULLER, M. P. CALHOUN, D. D. McIVER, D. B. WALTHALL, D. B. KARN, R. MAUZE, G. W. HARTON, D.
B. FEWELL, A. C. WILDMAN

REPORTERS:
J. W. CURTIS, W. L. POMEROY, J. M. TROTLER, J. AUSTIN, J. BRIGGS, P. PATTON, G. McLEAN, E. E. WEEKS,
T. D. SPRAGINS, L. E. CALHOUN, W. H. SHARPE, P. M. PATTERSON

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager: W. COOPER
Assistant Business Managers: JAMES ALLEN, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, W. G. GUILLE

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager: W. T. McCAIN
Assistants in Circulation Department: R. B. LILES, E. THROWER, E. C. MOOMAW, J. A. THOMPSON

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Our victory over Wake Forest last Friday and previous defeat of Randolph-Macon gives us a perfect record. What more could
we ask of Davidson debaters!

With mid-term tests behind us and only five more weeks until exams, everyone should do some hard studying and make
these last weeks really count.

Aren’t some of us about to forget that chapel is a devotional exercise, not a place for riotous assembling? A
little more deference to the speakers and a little less noise by the students would certainly be an improvement.

We see by the press reports that someone has invented a serum which will make a man tell the truth.
Now, why doesn’t somebody come forward with an anti-toxin for the spring fever?

A BENEFICIAL CHANGE

There is no surer way of success than to make careful plans in advance. We have for the first time
this spring a chance to select our courses for the coming year exactly as they will be taught. The catalogues
that have been published heretofore contained only the list of required and elective studies, and the courses a student chose
beforehand very likely would have to be changed later when he got a copy of the schedule of recitations.

In this year’s catalogue, however, all have noticed and had their attention called to the new feature, a complete schedule
of next year’s recitations. After the faculty has completed this so early, no one should fail to make use of
the opportunity to plan for himself a more successful year, and one in which he is sure to have the
courses he wants. To know what is in the course we take up is a matter of great importance, and
everyone has time now to talk over anything he is in doubt about with the professor concerned, and not rely
on information he may have heard from someone else.

During the present year, also, there has been quite a pronounced tendency on the part of a large number to
drop courses and possibly try others in their places. As a usual thing, the substitute has not been as near
what was wanted as the original selection. It should be very beneficial to all who have done this to be
able to get straightened out now for the coming year.

Another feature is the proposed switch to the honor system from the ticket plan. This change will be quite helpful
to many men who have been working with a number of lab-sciences, and none should fail to study out carefully
what is to be required in the future and how he can best line up his work with the new
requirements. For a long time those taking the science courses have complained about the extra number of hours that they
needed for their lab-work for which they got no additional credit. This change should be welcome to them.

It is possible, further, that some of the large number of failures this year were due to courses being taken
on the spur of the moment. All chance of this can now be eliminated by the three classes that will
be back next year. Such an opportunity as we now have should not be overlooked by any. Begin planning at
once exactly what you need, and find out what you will get in all the courses you plan to take.
In this way, everyone will be able to have a much more suitable and profitable year.

Another beneficial result will be seen in the size of the classes. At present, we have some that are so
large one hardly receives the personal benefit that used to be had here. In other classes, there are barely enough
men to justify them. By the estimate in advance now being made of the number of men wanting each course,
better arrangements will be possible, which will bring an improvement we were beginning to feel a need for. Thus, while
the courses picked out now can be changed before September 1, great care and thought will prove a desirable thing
in securing what you need and want.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922

Open Forum

CARELESS? WATCH YOUR STEP!

This spring there has been a vast amount of talk about stealing going on in the dormitories. Articles of every
description have been reported as missing. Sums of money of varying values have been lost in mysterious ways. In fact,
many have found it unsafe to leave anything of value out from under lock and key. Fellows, this ought not
to be. None enjoys the fact that they can’t leave their valuables in their rooms without danger of their being
taken. It was only a few years ago since a man could leave his money on his table and go
out leaving his door open without the slightest thought of its being taken. Only since the S. A. T. C.
has there been this evil on our campus. We have almost gotten back to normal in all other phases of
our college life and it’s now time that we put a stop to this nefarious practice.

If there’s anything men hate it’s a thief. How many of us have said that we wouldn’t stop at anything
if we could only catch someone in our rooms stealing? Many of us have aided these few men amongst us
who are on the wrong path. Haven’t we all heard Freshmen tell of taking someone else’s cap just because they
have missed their own or have heard members of the R. O. T. C. brag of getting a cap from
the boarding house? Many others have grown exceedingly careless about returning borrowed articles and even borrowing things without securing the
owner’s permission. Haven’t you accused somebody of stealing some of your property and afterwards found that some of your friends
had it without your knowing it? Fellows, this unbridled borrowing is an exceedingly dangerous thing. Many men have become so
used to this habit that there is not much difference between it and stealing. What difference does it make to
you if a man gets your property with or without the intention of returning it, if you don’t get it
back?

Let's begin right now to break ourselves of this loose habit of borrowing promiscuously and to frown on this evil
of stealing on our campus. We can rid ourselves of it if we only will. Get behind the Student Council
and help them all you can to make Davidson a safe place for everyone's property.

BOOSTER.

WHY TAKE THE ADVANCED COURSE R. O. T. C.?

It is not the purpose of this article to try to persuade its readers to sign up for the Advanced
Course, but merely to present in a sane common-sense way, a few of the advantages of such a course to
which theFreshmen or Sophomores, being compelled to take R.O.T.C., and that without pay, naturally are not inclined to give proper
consideration until perhaps it is too late to take up the course. In the first place, the course itself becomes
more a survey of matters of general interest rather than a process of having the basic principles of military training
drilled into one’s head and shoulders. In the Advanced Course, the future officer is given the opportunity of obtaining a
broad view and practical grasp of the principles which determine a nation’s military policy by an interesting survey of the
military history of our own and other leading nations and of the influence of modern world problems. Again, the cadet
officer has the training in practical leadership which not only raises him from the rank of those who are entirely
the led but which also will be a great practical help in obtaining those qualities of leadership which are necessary
for success in any profession. Practical and psychological lectures on the characteristics and qualifications of a leader give the student
a clearer understanding of the basis upon which such qualities must be developed. The matter of college credit for work
done in this department is a matter which deserves consideration. A full three-hour credit is given for each year of
the Advanced Course. The two classes per week for which a reasonable amount of preparation is required cover in a
more or less casual way such subjects.

With Other Colleges

Queens College, Apr. 12—One of the most brilliant events of the college year was the Sophomore-Senior Banquet held in Pi
Hall, Saturday night, April 1st. A five-course dinner was served by the Queens Blues staff. The Hall was made attractive
by the use of Easter decorations. In the center of the table was a large Easter egg which on being
broken reminded one that it was also April Fool’s Day because it was no egg at all but contained little
bags of confetti. Toasts were given between courses. Following the banquet, a Keith’s Theater party was given.

Queens College, Apr. 12—The new Queens Blues staff for the year 1922-23 has been elected. Those who will compose the
staff are: Lois Rogers, editor-in-chief; Eloise Brady, associate editor; Alethia Bracy, business manager; Miss Florence Chubbuck, faculty advisor; Carolyn Rogers,
Annie Parks Moore, Meme Hampton, and Agnes Efird, assistant editors; Rutledge Dudley, athletic editor; Margaret Bradford, news editor; Lorene Brown,
around the campus; Nancy Monroe, music editor; Minnie B. Porter, alumnae editor; Jennie Sue DeArmon, typist; Elsie Matthews, jester; Virginia
Hoover, blue triangle; Emily Frazer, preparatory school editor; Beulah Holmes and Alice Gibbon, advertising managers; Cornelia Wearn and Marie Bethune,
circulation managers.

Queens College.—The student body of Queens had the pleasure of hearing Mrs. Blain, a returned missionary from China, at vesper
Sunday evening. Mrs. Blain is a former graduate of this college and for the past 25 years, she has been
a missionary to China.

Elon College, N.C., Apr. 12—Elon opened a series of intercollegiate debate contests last Friday evening by winning two decisions over
Guilford College orators. The question discussed was resolved: That the Treaty Making Power of the United States should be transferred
to the Executive Department of the Government (constitutionality waived). On the home grounds, Messrs. R.S. Helms and H. Lee Scott,
supporting the affirmative, won a unanimous decision over Messrs. S. Gladstone Hodgin and J. Spottiswood Taylor, Jr., of Guilford. At
Guilford, Messrs. Ralph Otis Smith and Wm. Tate Scott, of Elon, supporting the negative, won a two to one decision
over Messrs. L. Lyndon Williams and J. Curtis Newlin, of Guilford. On April 12th, a dual contest will be staged
between Elon and Lenoir.

Elon College, N.C., Apr. 12—Hon. A. Wayland Cooke, of Greensboro, N.C., gave a splendid address here last Sunday evening in
the college auditorium on the “Useful Christian.” Mr. Cooke came under the auspices of the Religious Activities Organization of Elon.
As one of the most prominent lawyers and Christian citizens in the State, Mr. Cooke received a hearty welcome to
Elon. His speech last evening proved to be forceful, pleasing, and inspiring.

As Field Engineering, Military Law, Machine Gun, and Minor Tactics. Three hours a week are given to actual drilling and
maneuvering in the Junior course whereas the Seniors drill but once a week giving the other two hours to a
more or less informal consideration of the practical side of military policy already spoken of and of sand table and
terrain problems. In addition, however, to these considerations of the practicability of the courses given and in addition to the
fact that the entire course is exceedingly light in comparison with any Junior or Senior Lab course, there is that
$36.00 each quarter, two uniforms each year, and six weeks at one summer camp with all expenses to, from, and
at camp paid and $30.00 a month over and above to have a good time on. Perhaps few of us
look much farther ahead than our graduation day, but there is an important consideration in obtaining while in college that
training at the government’s expense which will truly fit us to discharge the duties of citizenship and leadership in a
national emergency.

SECOND YEAR ADVANCED.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

In accordance with the age-old custom at A. & E., all freshmen burned their caps at a huge bonfire on
last Friday night. The caps were thrown on one at a time, but the freshmen were allowed to keep the
white “F.”

We Don’t Know.

How much did Philadelphia, Pa.? How many eggs did New Orleans, La.? Whose grass did Hannibal, Mo.? How much does
Cleveland, O.? How many classes did Jackson, Miss.? What made Chicago, Ill.? Why did Phoenix, Ariz.? Who broke Athens, Ga.?
How often does Seattle, Wash.? —Crimson & White.

Vamps In Common.

“That’s a vamp little chair you’ve got there.” “Whaddayamean?” “Why, it has bare legs, a low back, and not much
upholstery.”—Ex.

He (over the phone)—“Have you anything on for tonight?” She—“Not a thing, come on over.”—Wasp.

The University of Alabama is holding a beauty contest to decide who is the prettiest co-ed and who is the
ugliest man. Miss Catherine Evans is leading for the co-eds with 2,140 votes, and Ted Snead for the handsome males,
with 4,000 votes.

Emory and Henry College, at Emory, Va., have 16 dates for their Glee Club during the remaining two months of
the spring term. Where are the Wildcat songbirds?

Earl Hayes, a student at William Jewell College, was accidentally struck on the temple and killed by a discus thrown
by one of his class.

R.O.T.C. NOTES.

Probably few students realize that the Davidson R.O.T.C. is merely a small unit of the National R.O.T.C. organization embracing 227
colleges and 96,000 students throughout the land. These figures include both Junior and Senior units in a ratio of approximately
one to two. Due to the fact that larger colleges often have several branches of the R.O.T.C., the total number
of Senior units is 234. In this group, there are 100 units of Infantry; 20 units each of Engineers, Coast
Artillery, Field Artillery, and Medical Corps; 10 units each of Cavalry and Signal Corps; and miscellaneous other units. An interesting
fact is that 50 percent of the R.O.T.C. establishments are at regular colleges and universities, whereas there are fewer “military
schools” in the list than there are city high schools.

Students in India are joining with other national groups in the passage of resolutions condemning liquor shops and the use
of liquor. This is one phase of the Gandhi movement, which maintains that beverage alcohol is sapping the vitality of
body, mind, and soul of the Indian nation. One unique fact is the system of pickets under which volunteers stand
near liquor shops and in the name of religion and country ask the ingoing customer not to drink. If the
customer persists, the picket falls on his knees and begs him not to drink. Some pickets carry bottles of milk
and offer the thirsty man free milk to drink. In some places, the drinker is boycotted. The movement is very
successful in cutting down drinking and in closing saloons. Several of the independent states of India have adopted prohibition in
varying forms.

A young cadet was complaining of the tight fit of his uniform. “Why father,” he declared, “the collar presses my
Adam’s apple so hard I can taste cider.”
