THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1922

Where is the man among us who doesn’t like to eat peanuts? Possibly that is one of the characteristics which evolutionists claim we inherit from Mr. and Mrs. Monkey, for they still love to appease their appetites on PEANUTS. One department of THE DAVIDSONIAN is known as the Peanut Parcher. Is it an efficient parcher? Does it display the best wit that Davidson College can produce? Is there any room for improvement in quality and in quantity? This article seeks to solve these questions.

Three years ago it seems that the Peanut Parcher did extra duty and parched popcorn also. Many students cared as much about the Peanut Parcher as the rest of THE DAVIDSONIAN combined. They turned to the Peanut Parcher the first thing and eagerly devoured its contents. The Parcher was also good year before last, but hardly as good as it was three years ago. Last year it was excellent some weeks, but at times it was rather short and the quality of the jokes was not the best. In the September 21st issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN the Peanut Parcher had slightly over half a column of material. Shall we let those few lines stand as a representation of our wit?

This article is not to criticize the campus editor, for in the opinion of the writer he is doing as well as anyone could be expected to do. The campus editor does not have reporters assigned to help him each week as the other editors do. It is up to him to secure jokes from any source he can. It is absolutely impossible for any one person to supply THE DAVIDSONIAN with wit for a whole year. Even Methuselah himself would run out of material.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W.S.A. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

DAVIDSON CAFE
Smiley’s Remodeled—You won't know it
Well-Prepared Food—The best money can buy, and an expert cook
Well Served—Table and counter service
Our Specialty—Real old-time club sandwiches

The only way we can make the Peanut Parcher what it should be is for EVERY student to turn in what jokes he hears during the week to the campus editor, R. C. Aikin, at number 30 Georgia. In this way we can secure material for as much rich wit as THE DAVIDSONIAN will print. Turn in that joke that was pulled off in the classroom, on the athletic field, at the boarding house, in the dormitory, on the campus, on that trip, or anywhere. ‘Shoot the bull’ to Windy Aikin. He'll be glad to get it. And over 500 other students will also be glad to get it. Don’t be stingy and keep that joke to yourself. Give it to the rest of us.

Did you ever stop to think that it costs students approximately 100 hours of work to get out an issue of THE DAVIDSONIAN? That is an average of 12 minutes for each student. Do you give your 12 minutes? It will take only a few minutes to jot down that bit of humor. DO IT. Give it to Windy Aikin. It will help him so much and will also be helping make THE DAVIDSONIAN the greatest Southern college weekly.

The Seniors were born for great things
The Sophomores for small
But no one yet has found the cause
Why Freshmen were born at all.

Prof. in Chemistry—"Mr. Cox, when you evaporate a solution in a dish, what is left?”
W. D. Cox, ’26—"The dish.”

Ode to the Girls We Left at Home
You play for his ready tenor,
Spill fudge on your second best frock,
You stifle your yawn behind your hand
And try not to look at the clock,
You listen to football dope and slang
Till your head’s in a perfect whirl;
Now ain't that a peach of an evening
For a nice, intelligent girl.

“This is a skin game,” said the lady as she applied Woodbury’s Facial Treatment.

Fresh Burkett—What is the date, please?
Prof.—Never mind the date; the alview is more important.
Fresh Burkett—Well, have something right, sir, I wanted to.

Sharpe—“Did you ever have a drag with exo prof?”
Gibson—“Yes, we smoked together last night!”

“I Wonder If He’ll Miss Me,” sang the dame with the cracked voice at Keith’s and from the front row (Davidson men entirely) came the answer: “If he does, he ought not to be trusted with a gun.”

Often!! Have you ever
Walked in the Selwyn Lobby and caught the
Glance of the prettiest Girl there—and have her
Smile—a wonderful smile—
And walk towards you
With both hands outstretched
And the lovelight shining
In her eyes——?
And go right past you
And kiss the boy behind you?
Oh! such things as these
Lead men to drink!!

The Quickest Way Out—No. 1
By Howell and Bill Joe Martin, Jr.
The quickest way out is to take Chem. I.
You pick up a hot tube; burn your thumb,
Then mix some chemicals in a vase
And let them blow up in your face.
Just breathe some bad gas in your nose,
Then spill some acid on your clothes,
And bust the alviews as they come.Air quicker way OA Ss to take Chem. 1.

Statistics des Chiens sur le Campus

Total number of dogs in Davidson ...... 62  
Total number of dogs to be found on CAMPUS ...... 60  
Number with headquarters in or around Chambers Hall ...... 15  
Number of really CL HORS ...... 2  
Number of varieties of dogs to be found ...... 30  
Number of dogs having Royal blood in them ...... 2  
Number of dogs who are owned by someone ...... 60  
Number of dogs the campus could do without ...... 2

Galloway—“Hurrah! Five dollars for my latest poem!”  
Walthall—“Who from?”  
Galloway—“Mr. Crawford, the post office lost it.”

If a pretty girl was as clever as she is told she is, she would be able to see that it wasn’t true.

BOARDING HOUSE REGULATIONS

We, the undersigned Managers of College Boarding Houses at Davidson, hereby enter into the following agreement concerning the relations between Boarders and Managers and the Managers of one house with those of another:

1. Board shall be considered as due in advance and payable by the 15th of the month.  
2. No man shall be furnished board at any house for more than 30 days without paying his board bill or making a thoroughly satisfactory arrangement with the Manager.  
3. No house shall furnish board to a man who has left another house without settling for his board or making a thoroughly satisfactory arrangement with the Manager of the first house.  
4. Any Manager having a man leave without paying his board bill or making satisfactory arrangement shall notify the Managers of all other houses. If it is found after a man has been taken in for board that he has left another house without settling for his board, he shall be declined further board until he has made settlement at the house where he owes for board.  
5. No Manager shall be required to take a man off his books until five days after notice by the man of intention to leave.  
6. No Manager shall be required to allow a rebate for any less time of absence than seven consecutive days, or where notice of intended absence is not given 24 hours prior to the time absence begins.  
7. Any student visiting any other house than that at which he regularly boards shall pay for his meals at the boarding house visited at the single meal rate in effect at the house visited, unless eating in the place of a regular boarder.  
8. Any boarder remaining at a house less than his current month shall pay the single meal rate at that house for all meals he has taken during that current month.  
9. Any Manager violating any one or more of these rules shall be fined by and pay to the other Managers such sum as shall be agreed upon by them in conference, not to exceed five dollars for each offense.  
10. A copy of this agreement shall be kept in the possession of each Manager and a copy kept posted in an available place at each house throughout the college year.

Signature of Manager House  
J. D. Bernhardt ...... Thompson's  
W. Gettys Guille ...... Bramlett’s  
W. A. Gamble, Jr. ...... Shumaker’s  
C. F. Wildman ...... Shumaker’s  
George Mauze ...... Shumaker’s  
Henry McMottis ...... Long’s  
Williamson's  
White's  
Robert Davidson

FALL SPORTS

Carry a line of the season’s athletic paraphernalia. When using an implement bearing the Spalding trade mark, you question not those who win with them. The Spalding trade mark is a guarantee of satisfaction. Catalogue mailed free on request.

A. G. SPALDING & BROS.

For SHOE REPAIRING See PAT KIMZY at the Gym. Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill. Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the Commissary.

MILLS SHOE CO. Statesville, N. C.

THE BANK

Prices you can afford to pay.

Gentlemen:  
We are in a better position today than ever before to supply your every need. New lines have been added to our stock, and in each, the assortment is complete. It is our purpose to keep you informed through the columns of The Davidsonian. Look for these letters - each will contain a bit of profitable information. This week we would like to invite your attention to our new stock of rugs and art squares - cold weather will soon be here and you will need one for your room. The prices are very moderate.

Sincerely yours,  
F. L. Lothery, Furniture

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Announcing that John Ward Men's Shoes will continue to visit DAVIDSON throughout the coming college year with the newest and best in conservatively correct footwear at prices ranging from $7 to $10. The first display of the season will be at No. 4 GEORGIA HALL on October 7.

John Ward Men's Shoes  
General Offices  
3 Juneau Street  
Philadelphia Shop  
1221-23 Chestnut Street  
just below the Hotel Adelphia  
New York Shops  
1401-03 Broadway  
just below Times and Brooklyn