THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 2, 1922.

NEW PROFESSORS
(Continued from page 1)

Professors Foreman and Wagner are married. To them and to their wives, as well as to Professor Goldiere, we extend
a hearty welcome to a mutual service.

DAVIDSON CAFE - Smiley's -
REMODELED-- You won’t know it
WELL PREPARED FOOD-- The best money can buy, and an expert cook
WELL SERVED-- Table and counter service
OUR SPECIALTY-- Real old-time club sandwiches
801 West Main St. Staunton, Va.

Real Home Cooking For 25 Men
$22.00 the Month
Reservations in Order of Receipt
H. M. MORRIS MANAGER
An Early Application is Advised
QUALITY PLUS

The College Boarding House
Good Substantial Board at $17.50 the Month
Apply MISS ROSA SHUMAKER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

GREENSBORO HIGH ELEVEN GETTING READY FOR SEASON
McFadden to be Head Coach, Losing Six Old Men—Greensboro, Gastonia, Winston, Lincolnton and Charlotte Squads to be Trained by Davidson
College Men.

Greensboro, Aug. 12—J. M. (Rooster) McFadden, Davidson College football star, will coach the Greensboro High School football squad this fall.
The local squad will start regular workouts on August 17th. The 1922 squad will be minus six letter men of
the 1921 aggregation but Greensboro fans are sure that Coach McFadden will be able to build up a fast eleven,
although somewhat lighter than usual high school grid entries of Western Carolina.

Rivalry among the Western high schools during the coming pigskin season will be unusually strong. No less than a half
a dozen Davidson College graduates, several of the class of 1921, will have charges on the gridiron this season and
most of them will be pitched against one another. McFadden, mentioned above, will run the Greensboro High machine. “Doc” LaFar,
smashing guard who was McFadden’s captain last year, will be head coach of the Winston-Salem High School entry. Bethea, backfield
man on Davidson’s squad, will coach the Lincolnton squad. Lowry, also of Davidson, will assist in training the Gastonia Highs
machine. Simmons, once a Davidson head coach, may coach the Charlotte preps, as the Queen City fans are hot after
Mr. Simmons for their coach and it is likely that he will give in to them. So with five or
more prep school machines moving against similarly coached elevens, all of which may use the same principles, it will be
a hot old time for somebody in November and October and fans are sure to get their money’s worth when
they attend such games.

Greensboro’s training for the coming season will be started at Camp Hicone on August 17th. The gridiron aspirants will report
on the morning of that day for a 10-day period during which particular attention will be given to drilling them
in the rudiments of the game and getting them in physical condition for actual work on the field. Coach McFadden
will arrive August 16th, ready for the opening of training. He will be assisted at the camp by William York
and C. W. Phillips, both experienced football men.

THE “Y” BELONGS TO YOU; USE IT
Now that vacation days are coming to a close we think of returning to school and meeting all of our
friends whom we left last June and also the new men. We trust each of you have had a pleasant
summer and that you will come on the opening day with renewed energy. Davidson seems to be better equipped now
than ever before, and we know that we aregoing to have a wonderful year. The Y.M.C.A. is planning a banner
year and we wish to get started right at the beginning of school and serve you throughout the year to
the best of our ability. The “Y” belongs to you and we want you to use it. The Blue Ridge
Conference was a success in every way and we are proud of our splendid delegation that represented us there. We
hope that you will arrive with a determination to get everything possible out of college this year. Let’s all pull
together as we have heretofore and cooperate with all the organizations on the Hill and by so doing we will
be assured of a happy hard-working student body. You who are coming for the first time, we want you to
feel that the “Y” is your big brother. Come with a desire to develop spiritually, mentally, and physically. Now, we
old men want to be here at the opening of school so that we may help the Freshmen to become
acquainted with their surroundings, and start them off with the true Davidson spirit.

C. R. CRAWFORD, President Y.M.C.A.

CHARLOTTE CHAMBER TO WELCOME DAVIDSON BOYS

C. O. Kuester, Secretary, Announces That An Official Welcome Will Be Extended College Students From Chamber of Commerce.

Charlotte, N.C., Aug. 19—Students from North Carolina, and from all over the South, enrolled in Davidson College here, will be
officially welcomed and entertained by the city of Charlotte through its Chamber of Commerce shortly after the opening of school
in September, according to the announcement today of C. O. Kuester, secretary of the Chamber of Commerce. The day on
which the event occurs will be known as Davidson Day, and the Chamber of Commerce plans to make it an
annual event in Charlotte. This will be the first time in the history of Davidson that Charlotte will officially welcome
its students and faculty, and the day is planned, according to Mr. Kuester, in recognition of the value of the
college to the city. Mr. Kuester declares that he has lived in Charlotte all his life, and his contact with
Davidson College convinces him that this Presbyterian Institution has as high a grade of leadership, faculty, and student body, as
any college in America, and that he has never known any misconduct on the part of Davidson students in their
visits to Charlotte. Davidson College is recognized as one of the leading Presbyterian institutions in America, and is now preparing
to expand its facilities and increase its endowment by a campaign for $600,000, which will open sometime this fall.

H. M. GREY, Athletic Director.

FOOTBALL PRACTICE WILL BEGIN SEPTEMBER 5TH

All men, both old and new, interested in football, are urged to report by September 5th for football practice. Arrangements
have been made to take care of a large squad and a full staff of coaches will be on hand
for early instruction. The members of the Alumni Advisory Coaching Staff expect to be here ten strong. A coach for
each position for the first week will mean that you are to have the closest personal attention. All men expecting
to come for early practice should let me know at least a week beforehand so arrangements can be made for
board.

Laundry numbers have been mailed to all new students. If you have not received yours, write for it.

BOARD That Will STAY GOOD

We will give you food that you can’t afford to miss at a price that you can afford to pay.

Convenient to town and campus.

Thompson’s
Rate: $20.00 the month
Manager: J. D. Bernhardt
Lenoir, N.C.

M. I. Goodrum & Co.
Davidson, N.C.
Four Doors Below the Bank

We extend a hearty greeting to our old friends who will be back and to the new men who will
be with us for the first time. NEXT YEAR we will be in a better position to serve you than
ever before. Every one of our departments has stocked items for your special convenience—for instance, in our Men’s Furnishings you
will find the latest in FLORSHEIM Shoes. MR. STEWART, of our Grocery Department, has been laying in good things all
summer for your feeds. He is especially keen about a certain brand of sweet pickles! Don’t forget to ask for
it.

AND NOW an item especially for the new men. The college does not place chairs in the dormitory rooms. This
is an old problem for us and we have an adequate stock of several styles that have proved popular in
past years. Likewise, we will have an excellent selection of durable Rugs and reliable Bed Linen and Blankets. Regulation Munson
last Shoes for R.O.T.C. service. DON’T cram your trunk with stuff that you can buy at Davidson. Don’t buy it
on the way—buy from us and save the freight. We deliver.

Remember: EVERYTHING YOU WILL NEED
“Prices You Can Afford to Pay”
