4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. RICHARDS...........Editor-in-Chief
Forum Editor
W. M. GAMBLE JR.......Managing Editor
Campus Editor
H. H. GREENS, Asst. Managing Editor
R. F. DAVIDSON.........Assignment Editor
Social Editor
A. C. VON...............Athletic Editor
Literary Editor
A. B. ALUMNI...........Alumni Editor
Publicity Editor
H. H. McKEITHEN

REPORTERS’ CLUB
R. R. Pres.
FEWELL, ED. MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
BRADFORD, W. Z.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V.
HESTON, W. M.
Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. P.
IVES, J. C.
SMITH, R. H.
CALHOUN, M. P.
JONES, R. O.
COX, W. M.
JONES, L. R.
WALTHALL, D. B.
HEPBURN, M.
MIEBUAN
ELLIOTT, W. T.
AON, H. Y.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
L. A. TAYLOR, F. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
Circulation Manager
S. C. FAIN
P. C. HENDERSON Asst. Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Very few men have ever sprained their wrists in their eagerness to turn over a new leaf.

M. R. DOUBLES.
H. K. RUSSELL
D.

We imagine that if a vote could be taken at Davidson this week for the most unpopular man of history, the decision would be unanimously in favor of that unsung hero who first thought of examinations.

D.

We wonder if the making of the Faculty picture last Monday might not be termed as a howling success.

D.

In view of the fact that so many of the students have changed their rooms since the burning of Chambers we are publishing this week a new student directory which we hope will prove useful to all concerned.

If the Wildcats continue to play the brand of basketball which they displayed last Saturday night they ought to run some one a mighty close race for the state championship honors this year.

D.

THE LITERARY SOCIETIES.

There are many institutions and traditions at Davidson which have been handed down almost since the college began, but of them all none has played a more important part in the life of the college than have the two literary societies. Organized almost as soon as the college itself was founded, they have for more than three-quarters of a century held a high place among the activities of the campus, and more than a few orators of note have learned their first lessons in public speaking within the old society halls.

Such was the love which the students at one time felt for these organizations that a man who was not a society member was practically ostracized by his fellows, and each society exercised practically the same powers over its members as student government now holds. No other phase of college life held quite so warm a place in the heart of a Davidson man as did his literary society.

That time was not to last, however. As the college grew and other student activities began to creep in, the societies began to lose their hold on the campus. Little by little interest in this form of literary work grew less, and little by little the number of society members dwindled until in recent years their combined membership has been little more than a third of our total number of students, and, even then, the membership of the societies has been so large that a member could hardly appear on the program more than once or twice a year.

Naturally such a condition tended to greatly impair the usefulness of these organizations. Not only was there no incentive for more students to enter the societies, but the members themselves were losing many of the benefits which they should have received from their work, and few of them took any real interest in it. This state of affairs was, of course, to be deplored, but no one seemed to be able to remedy it.

This year the first real steps toward improvement have been made. Feeling that the only remedy for the trouble lay in an increase of the number of societies, members of both organizations proposed to withdraw and organize anew with the consent of the mother societies. Such a step would tend not only to increase the total number of society members, but also to render their work more efficient, and it was decided on without delay.

The wisdom of this move was soon made apparent in the marked increase of interest in literary society work and the new members added to all four groups. The quality of the work now being done is ample proof of the fact that oratory can still hold its place at Davidson, and though there is still much room for improvement there is equal reason for encouragement. It is safe to say that for any man who really throws himself into it, literary society work affords about the most valuable experience of any to be had in college life. The ability to speak can be acquired in no other way than by practice, and no better opportunity for this can be found than that offered in this activity. The thoughtful man will do well to pause and consider before passing up this opportunity for self-improvement.

With Other Colleges

NOTED PIANIST APPEARS AT ELON COLLEGE

Elon, N. C., Jan. 9.—In the first concert given since her return from Europe, Miss Frances Nash, noted pianist, entertained a large and appreciative audience here last Friday evening. The musical program was given under the auspices of the Music Lovers’ Club of Elon College. It was the third number of a series of entertainments and concerts to be given at Elon this season.

D.

CLEVER JAPANESE COMPANY PLEASES N. C. C. W. STUDENTS

Greensboro, N. C., Jan. 13—The students of the North Carolina College for Women enjoyed last Thursday evening in the college auditorium, The Program of the Far East, presented by Mr. and Mrs. Michitaro Ongawa, clever Japanese entertainers who are making a tour of this country under the management of William B. Feakins, Inc., of New York. The program, which sets forth Japanese life and customs, consisted of talks, stories, songs and dances to the accompaniment of Japanese musical instruments, and a fashion show. A short play, The Fox Woman, typical of modern Japanese dramatic art, concluded the program.

D.

ELON COLLEGE LOSES ITS DIRECTOR OF MUSIC

Elon, N. C., Jan. 9.—Prof. Gilman F. Alexander, who has been director of music here for several years, has resigned his position in the department of music in order to continue the study of music in Philadelphia. Professor Alexander is superseded as director of music by Miss Marion W. Corey, of Boston, a graduate of Arthur J. Hubbard. In the loss of Professor Alexander, Elon students recognize and regret the loss of a capable teacher and warm friend, but confidence is expressed that his place will be creditably filled by Miss Corey, who comes with excellent recommendations.

D.

MANAGING EDITOR’S FOUR INCHES.

A criticism of our paper from outside is that many of the news articles are not written as news stories should be written, particularly in the manner of developing them. Some suggestions along this line are given for our reporters.

The opening paragraph in a news story is called the “lead.” There should be put into the lead all the facts that a reader who is in haste could wish to know. These may be combined in a single sentence, or better, in a group of short sentences, of which the first states the most important fact. The six questions that the reporter should try to answer are: When? Where? Who? What? Why? and How? One should not overdo the long running sentence with its participial beginning. The “body” should develop all the points summed up in the lead, in the order of their importance, and should then add any other details or facts that lend interest. The order of decreasing importance should be observed.throughout, both in the lead and in the body of the story. It is the simplest and easiest plan, and will aid the reader and aid those who make up the paper.

DAVIDSONIAN EDITOR HAS ARTICLE IN ARMY JOURNAL

In September, the Military Department held an essay contest in the Senior class on the subject, “The Military History and Policy of the U.S.” This contest created much interest in the military circles of Davidson. A committee composed of Professors Hood, Erwin, and Major Hearn judged the essays. They were graded on accuracy, knowledge of the subject, presentation, and expression. There were a number of good papers handed in, and it was difficult, indeed, for the judges to decide which best conformed to the rules of the contest.

After due consideration, it was decided that Capt. J. M. Richards’ essay was the best from all standpoints. Captain McIlwaine’s was judged to be the next best. The winning essay appeared in The Army and Navy Journal and received favorable comment by the editor. Also, the article appears in the current issue of the Infantry Journal. Captain Richards shows a knowledge of his subject and presents in a clear, convincing manner what he believes to be a disastrous policy for America—the policy of unpreparedness. The writer cites many instances from history where this policy might have meant defeat.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

The following article from the Macon (Ga.) Telegraph will be of interest to the friends of our Managing Editor, who is a brother of the Mercer student mentioned:

J. H. M. Robert Gamble, Lanier High School graduate and now the goal-shooting center of the victorious Mercer basketball team, was yesterday elected Master Mercerian, the highest undergraduate honor, leading all other candidates from the senior class by the largest margin ever accorded any student for this degree. It was the first time a student of Mercer University ever received the honor over all other candidates on the first ballot. He led the next candidate by 151 votes. He graduated from Lanier in 1917 and was the first student to matriculate for the Mercer School of Commerce, also having that honor as the first matriculant of the School of Journalism. He has been the president of the School of Commerce for four years and has also led the School of Journalism since its inception at Mercer University. According to members of the faculty, Gamble is the first student in many years who stands high in scholarship and is also active in athletic endeavors of the college life. Basketball is his major sport, and he won the game from Georgia Tech last week by a flying field goal in the last second of play, but he is also active in class baseball, football, and two years ago was Mercer’s representative in the S. I. A. A. tennis tournament.

Paying for Own Education.

“Bob,” as he is best known by the student body of Mercer University and the sporting fans of Macon, has made his own way in the world since quite a lad by means of his ability as an expert stenographer and later as a newspaper reporter. He is at present an associate editor of the Mercer Cluster, and the college correspondent of the Macon Telegraph and Atlanta Journal. His college and Macon friends declare that he has well lived up to a quotation in this year’s college annual: “To what Mercer called him he has yet to answer, ‘No.’”

The following is the sketch given him in the Mercer Cauldron, the college annual:

Robert M. Gamble, B. S. C., “Bob,” Macon, Ga., April 6, 1900; S. A. E. Fraternity, Phi Delta Society, charter member of Quill Club.
1918-19: Sergeant, Mercer S. A. T. C.; president School of Commerce; class basketball; Glee Club; S. I. A. A. tennis tournament; chairman, commerce social committee, four years.
1919-20: Varsity basketball; Glee Club; circulation manager, Orange and Black; Commerce representative students’ advisory council; president Spanish Club; vice-president School of Commerce; alternate, Spring term debate; class baseball; manager tennis tournament.
1920-21: President, School of Commerce; manager Glee Club; associate editor Mercer Cluster; varsity basketball; assistant manager basketball; president Journalism class; Quill Club; class baseball; Mercer correspondent Macon Telegraph.
1921-22: President School of Commerce; associate editor Mercer Cluster; chairman committee on constitution and by-laws for Student Tribunal; general chairman campaign (successful) for 500 enrollment at Mercer, Fall 1921; president Journalism class; vice-president senior class and student body; varsity basketball; historian Quill Club; Mercer correspondent Macon Telegraph and Atlanta Journal.

Student maxim: “Mercer first, always; Commerce second, but only to Mercer.”

Open Forum

Start Thinking, '23!

No matter how bad things look for a short while, yet in time all will be bright and merry once again. So though our present exams may loom large on the horizon and seem to cast a gloomy spell over everything, yet they too will pass away in time, and we will soon forget all about them—a few may not—and the campus will wake up and live again. And as we look ahead, the next big event on the program is Junior Speaking. Though it is too far ahead to make any definite plans—yet it is too far already for the Juniors, as a class, both individually and collectively, to get their brains to work and do some general planning. The class of ’22 certainly did themselves proud in the occasion they pulled off last year and left a record behind that is hard to beat. But the Juniors of this year think themselves equal in brain and ability to those of last year, and justly so, but actions ever speak louder than words, so they will have to prove it to the rest of the fellows on the Hill. They will have problems to face, especially in the matter of housing the visitors, that were not so serious last year, but what are difficulties for if they are not to show what is really in a person. So, ’23, let’s get our brains to working and show everybody that in spite of difficulties, we can put over the best Junior Speaking that this old hill ever saw.

“Buen principio, la mitad es hecha.”

Alumni, Take Note!

The Forum Editor:

You have had some good articles in your department this year, and yet I have noticed that only once this fall have you had any word from an alumnus. What is the matter? Have they lost all interest in the old college? I know this can’t be the case, a Davidson man never does that. Then, have they no ideas that will help the old college, or haven't they seen anything lately that the college has done that they like? No, I still don’t think that we have hit the reason. I think they don’t realize that your department is open to them as well as to the men on the campus and that any article they send in will be gladly printed. And so I am taking the liberty to appeal to all Alumni to make use of this column in the Davidsonian as much as they can. Personally, I enjoy nothing more than a little squib from some old fellow with whom I used to run, but with whom I have since lost touch, giving a little word of advice or praise to his younger brothers back on the hill. I know that it is almost impossible for you to get these little articles unless they are sent to you, so I hope that we can all co-operate with you in making your column the most helpful and interesting in the paper.

Hoping that I have not overstepped my bounds, I remain,

Yours truly,

An Old Rumpite.

Editor’s Note: The above letter has hit the nail on the head. This department will do everything it can to co-operate with the alumni in this matter. Send in your article to the Forum Editor, The Davidsonian, and if it is legible it will be printed.

THE SUCCESS FAMILY

The father of Success is Work;
The mother of Success is Ambition.
The oldest son is Common Sense;
Some of the other boys are Perseverance, Honesty, Thoroughness, Foresight, Enthusiasm, and Co-operation.
The oldest daughter is Character;
Some of her sisters are Cheerfulness, Loyalty, Courtesy, Care, Economy, Sincerity, and Harmony.
The baby is Opportunity.

Get well acquainted with the “old man” and you will be able to get along pretty well with the rest of the family.