THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1922

WEEKLY LETTER

Davidson, N.C. October 9, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The Golden Tornado is once more just plain Yellow Jackets to us Wildcats. Instead of sweeping over us 70 to
0 or 66 to 0, which as you will probably remember have been the scores in the two seasons previous
to the present, they were only able to sting us to the tune of three touchdowns. The Davidson team has
also turned into Wildcats once again and instead of being whipped before they saw the smoky city as in the
two aforesaid years, they were busy sharpening their claws on the journey southward and while unable to inflict any serious
damage on the opposition, they were all there when it came to the fight and pep. In fact, Joe, during
the last two chukkers the Techmen were held scoreless, which is the first time the Wildcats have accomplished this feat
of a scoreless half since before this big war across the pond started, of which we have all been hearing
so much about. Fight? Why that’s what our team ain’t got nuthin’ else but of!

You know, Joe, that I was betting on a margin of 28 points but the team goes me one better
and holds Tech to 19 points, which is even closer than in the ’17 game when Flowers, Grey, King &
Co. held the Tornado to a 22-point margin, but as you will see up above this don’t quite come up
to that as the Tornado has changed back to Yellow Jackets. The Jackets are also somewhat smaller than they were
five years ago. But Joe, don’t let these wise guys kid you into believing that Red Barron is tottering on
the brink of the grave. He looked like about one-half of the Jacket backfield during the first half and 16
and 18-yard runs are entirely too long for anyone quite so old and decrepit. Of course, the Wildcats showed him
all the courtesy and veneration due to anyone of his age and from the yards ticked off it seems like
he took advantage of all that was given and a good deal more added on. Pup McWhorter, Red Murphy, etc.,
were pretty good, too, but when it came to hitting a stone wall, there wasn’t anything for them to do
but hand the old pigskin over and say, “Here Wildcats, we can’t gain nothing, see if you're any good at
the game.”

But Joseph, when the Red and Black scrappers lost the ball on downs on their 27-yard line it looked like
“Goodnight Wildcats.” But after Harris and McWhorter failed to gain and that “thin Red line” threw McWhorter for a three-yard
loss, a scoreless half was sure as the field was too muddy to drop kick accurately. Speaking of mud, Joe,
if mud was water, then Grant Field was the Pacific Ocean last Saturday. Pup McWhorter and Red Murphy both failed
on drop kicks during the last period and at one time the ball was on the Wildcats' two-yard line before
we came through it all.

Joe, I guess you've heard the song entitled “I’m a Rambling Wreck From Georgia Tech.” Well, in this game which
we are mentioning casually, several Tech men had the feeling that they were wrecks. In fact, Joe, they took four
times as much time out as the above-mentioned Presbyterians. Presbyterians may be blue but during the contest they smeared a
little blue over the Jackets in the form of bruises. I imagine them birds didn’t feel any too good whether
it was 130-pound Spratt or 193-pound Sam Summers which did the dirty work. The Wildcats always hit ’em pretty low
and very hard. Sam also did some snappy work when on the one-yard line. He stopped two plays which McDonough
and Red Barron figured were supposed to go right over him and the two gentlemen just named were forced to
lay the ball down in the precise location in which it was resting the play before. As I was starting
to mention, however, the Techmen had the delightful experience of having their breath knocked out of them on several entirely
separate occasions.

Well, Josephus, Cap’n Spratt and this 190-pound Lyman that plays at tackle for Tech used to play together out in
ole Chattanooga on the McCallie team and Saturday they were trying to see which one could get in the other’s
way the most often while Pup McWhorter and Red Murphy, which used to indulge in a scrap every chance they
could get, out in the same old burg, were working together like brothers. Such is life! You must have noticed
also that in the second period it took the Jackets six downs to make seven yards to the last chalk
line and three of these downs were employed in carrying it past the one-yard post. That’s the kind of a
down to nobody.

Well, Joe, after the first three games last season we were 91 points behind our opponents in the matter of
rolling up the score whilst this fall after the opening trio we are four points ahead of our opponents. Quite
a difference over last year, eh what! Well seeing that we've passed through this contest with colors flying, the next
thing to look forward to is the Wake Forest fracas Saturday. I’ll tell the world that Charlotte gave us a
good time down there on Davidson Day last week. The banquet was O.K. Joe, and talk about generosity—some of the
fellows are still smoking cigarettes which were passed out to them in that Made-in-Carolinas affair they were having down there.
Of course, everyone went when a free pass there and back was handed out, but if you make it to
the Queen City next Saturday you'll see just as big a bunch down there. Of course, we ain’t promising anything
but I wouldn’t be a-tall surprised if you didn’t see a much more interesting parade that night than the one
which was held on the morning of Davidson Day. You know Joe, whether nobody else goes or not we'll show
’em a team that anybody’ll have a hard time beating. Since Fetzer’s team, which held Yale to the same count
as we did Tech, whipped the Baptists, 62 to 3, we’ve been feeling pretty cocky, but two weeks ago and
Saturday are two different matters and the Wake Forest team is probably woke up considerable. Our battle slogan is ‘Remember
October 15, 1921.” Of course, Joe, if you remember that date, and you ought to, you won't say a word.
Just be on hand at Wearn Field to see how many points those four words will cost Wake Forest!

While we were scrapping with the Jackets, Heckman’s team with Heckman out was trampling gently on Elon to the tune
of 7-0.Well, Heckman will probably be in Saturday, on the job to try and make it two straight! Well, Joe,
you just know we'll be there 500 strong to sort of assist the team in wrecking Heckman’s pet ambition. If
you could have seen when the team left for Tech and when they came back, not to mention when the
plays were coming in, you wouldn’t need to ask whether there is such a thing as the Wildcat spirit, Joe,
but being as you've got some common sense, I don’t think you'd ask a question like that to any one
of us anyhow. As I have aforesaid, Joe, we ain’t prophesying a thing but if things pan out right we
are hoping for a chance to paint Charlotte Red and Black sometime during the coming weekend. Well, Joe, come down
and help us and the alumni support our scrappers Saturday. The more the merrier! Everybody is figuring on going down
and showing the team, Charlotte, and, last but not least, Wake Forest, that we mean business. Go get ’em Wildcats!
As ever, CHONG.

“The atom,” said the Chemistry Prof in fresh chemistry, “is that which little we got, Joe, one that don’t zat
is larger than your re of Serer See Fo el oe.”

LIGHT RED AND BLACK (Continued from Page One)

The fourth down was incomplete and the ball went over to Tech on Davidson’s 27-yard line. Mallory stopped Harris on
a trip around end and McWhorter was held for no gain over right tackle. Then on the third down the
Wildcats broke through and nailed McWhorter for a three-yard loss. When Murphy failed on a drop kick, Tech’s chance to
score during the half was gone as Martin punted 38 yards out of danger. In addition to the stellar line
work, one Tech pass was intercepted and a Tech fumble recovered. Brice played a great game at center and Faison
and Davis kept the ends well guarded. Gig Shepherd, who did some fine punting and pulled down a Tech pass,
was forced from the game during the first of the second period by an injured foot. Faison also hurt his
leg but no other casualties are reported.

The game play by play:

FIRST QUARTER.

Shepherd kicked 45 yards to Barron who returned 33 yards. Hunt smashed through left tackle for three yards. Rather gained
three more through the same place. Gig Shepherd intercepted a pass. Davidson’s ball on her own 40-yard line. Shepherd failed
to gain over tackle. Shepherd was thrown for a two-yard loss. Shepherd punted 33 yards out of bounds. Tech’s ball
on her own 32-yard line. Rather punted 43 yards out of bounds, Davidson’s ball on her 28-yard line. Shepherd punted
28 yards. The ball fell dead. Tech’s ball on her 42-yard line. Barron hits right tackle for 18 yards and
a first down. McDonough over left guard for a five-yard gain. McDonough hit left tackle for 10 yards and a
first down. Hunt got one over right tackle. Barron went over right guard eight yards to a touchdown. Drop kick
failed. Score—Tech, 6; Davidson, 0. Shepherd kicked 40 yards to Hunt who returned 20. Tech’s ball on her 40-yard line.
McDonough plunged through left tackle for eight yards. Hunt made three and a first down over center. Ball in mid-field.
Rather over left tackle for five yards. Barron failed to gain over left tackle. McDonough hit right tackle for five
yards and a first down. Barron stepped off 10 yards around right end. Tech’s ball on Davidson’s 31-yard line. Hunt
gained three yards over the line but Tech was penalized five yards for offside. Fourth down and 10 to go.
Barron skirted right end for 10 yards and a first down. Ball on Davidson’s 20-yard line. Hunt hit left guard
for three yards. Tech was penalized five yards for offside. Rather hit left tackle for a four-yard gain. Hunt gained
three yards over right tackle. Barron went over right guard for a touchdown. Drop kick failed. Score—Tech, 12; Davidson, 0.
Hunt kicked off 30 yards to Moore who was downed in his tracks. Davidson’s ball on her own 31-yard line.
Time out for Davidson. Laird goes in for Shepherd who hurt his foot. Tech was penalized five yards. Ball on
Davidson’s 31-yard line. Moore failed to gain.

(Continued on Page Six)

With Our Opponents

The Carolina-Davidson game bids fair to be a Battle of the Giants this year. Both teams are rounding into form
and if scores are any measure of ability both are stronger than last year, for in 1921 Yale beat Carolina,
34-0, and this year but 18-0; while in the same year the Wildcats brought Ga. Tech’s margin of victory from
70 to 19. What is more, 18 points doesn’t spell the true difference between Yale and Carolina. A punt that
hit the goal post gave Yale six while McDonald scored on Yale only to have it annulled for an offside
play. Twelve to six would be a better comparison of the strength of the two teams.

The Wake Forest crew looks like a one-man machine. They can’t win without Heckman and perhaps that is why Elon
held the Baptists to seven points. At any rate Heckman will be back in shape Saturday. Wake Forest beat us
last year so it ought to be a good game but—revenge is sweet and three or four touchdowns won’t be
too many.

V. P. I, our next big opponent, is rolling right along. William and Mary, their latest victim, fell before the
Engineers, 20-6. Penn State defeated William and Mary only 27-6 last week. V. P. I. beat their smaller opponents, 14-0
last year, the same margin of difference both years. Next week Virginia Tech will be put to the acid test
when they meet Centre in Richmond. Judging from the records of the two teams it doesn’t look exactly like all
Centre.

There is no doubt about it, Trinity is coming right along. In fact they appear to be about as good
as V. P. I. The Methodists got a 28-0 decision over Hampden-Sidney, while the Va. Tech eleven turned ’em in
at 38-0. Trinity and Carolina meet Thursday in a game that will go a long way towards showing just what
Trinity will be able to strut on the field at Greensboro.

The Wolfpack of N. C. State went up to Virginia looking for prey, but they were unsuccessful in their quest.
Washington and Lee won from the Farmers, 16-6, though State had a lead of six points at the end of
the first period. State and Washington and Lee did not play last year.

Her new combination came off down in Gainesville where the Florida and Furman elevens met in gladiatorial conflict. The ’Gators
were pretty firm on their feet, but the Purple Hurricane lifted them aside long enough to score a touchdown and
put over the point that was the margin of a 7-6 victory. The ’Gator team has always been noted for
weight, so probably the Furman eleven fought against odds. If so it was a better showing than they made against
Newberry on Saturday.
