THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 7, 1922.

THE LITTLE MINISTER.

Betty Compson, dainty Paramount star whose first stellar vehicle, “At the End of the World,” created a profound impression here
some weeks ago, has scored again. Her newest Paramount picture, “The Little Minister,” in which she is seen as Lady
Babbie, was shown with exceptional success at the movies last Saturday night. She vested the Babbie of Sir James M.
Barrie’s creation with a fervor and winsomeness that caught the spectators instantly. There are many thrilling moments in the action
and these tend to make the presentation extremely enjoyable.

Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr.
East Trade St., Charlotte, N. C.

In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

BELMONT DELEGATES NAMED AT LOCAL C. E. MEETING

The local Christian Endeavor Society held an interesting meeting in the Church last Sunday. The leader, W. C. Ramsey, made
a short talk on “Bible Reading,” bringing out the fact that we should read the Bible. The amount to be
read, he said, should be decided by the reader’s mood and time. Sometimes it is best that we read only
a few verses, study and meditate over them; then put their teachings into practice. Members of the society gave one-minute
talks on why and how they were reading their Bibles. At the close of the meeting the delegates to the
coming Christian Endeavor Convention, to be held in Belmont April 7th and 8th, were elected. Wallace Purdy, Miss Frances Johnson,
and Miss Nina Holt White were chosen to represent the local society.

DR. J. M. WELLS SPEAKS.
(Continued from page 1)

Philip, saying, arise and go, and he arose and went.” Doctor Wells then showed the different ways by which God
makes known His will to us. First by His Word as revealed in the scriptures, then by special providences, events
which point out to us the path God wishes us to take, then by the inner voice, conscience, or the
Holy Spirit within us. But just as we obey God's voice when He tells us to come, in the same
way we must obey Him when He says to us: “Go.” It may not be perfectly clear what God’s will
in the matter is, but if we obey His command instantly and willingly our vision will grow broader and it
will be revealed to us what He wishes of us. The greatest call of all, though, is the call of
God: “Go and win souls.” After the talk by Doctor Wells there followed a short discussion of several matters of
interest. The meeting was closed by a song, followed by a prayer by Doctor Wells.

Volunteer Band.

Doctor Wells, president of Columbia Seminary, in speaking to the Volunteer Band Sunday morning brought out the fact that the
plain man and woman have taken their place in the world along with those who are especially gifted. As an
illustration he told of three of his college mates who were only everyday men now standing out as leaders in
their work. These men while in college were elected by their student body to go to the Student Volunteer Convention
and came back with a zeal and determination to do a greater work for others. Two of these men went
to Korea as missionaries, one, Doctor Reynolds, translated the Bible into the Korean language and will go down in Church
history as one of its greatest men. The second, Doctor Bell, is one of the most noted evangelists in Korea,
and the people he has converted are not only nominal Christians but in time of persecution stick to their new
faith better than the Christians of this land. The third college mate is doing a great work in the United
States and is another good example of the everyday man taking no small part in the runnings of this old
world. “These three were plain everyday men like us, but aspired to great things and stuck to it.”

The Tech Glee Club took 50 men on its recent trip through Georgia and Alabama when they visited Albany, Columbus,
Montgomery, and West Point.

ACADEMY PROGRAM
Thurs., Fri., Sat., April 6th, 7th, 8th.

OVERTURE
Keith Vaudeville
DELL AND GLISS
Comedy Eccentric Musical Clowns
ED. MORTON
Vaudeville’s Pleasing Singer
THOMAS J. RYAN & CO.
In the New Reception
“Mag Haggerty’s Reception”
Arthur Silbers & Eva North in “BASHFOOLERY”
PATHE NEWS AND “SNUB” POLLARD
F. M. ALPHONSE BERGE
Presents “CREATIONS”[ T H After Ramsey’s talk several members | | THE CALL TO THE MINISTRY. | —— | |
An elderly woman now living in the west, formerly a resident of Princeton, New Jersey, not long ago visited her
relatives in that town. She was especially interested in the progress of a nephew who had entered the ministry. She
had not seen him since his boyhood, and was, therefore, anxious to attend service at his church. At dinner, subsequent
to the Sunday sermons she heard delivered by her nephew, it was observed that the old woman was singularly reticent.
Suddenly she broke her long silence by asking her nephew, “William, why did you enter the ministry?” “Why, aunt!” exclaimed
the young divine. “What a question! I entered the ministry because I was called.” Just a suspicion of a smile
came to the old woman's face, she responded, “Are you sure, William, that it wasn’t some other noise you heard?”

D. DAVIDSON HIGH SCHOOL IS BEATEN BY WILDKITTENS

In a loosely played game on Sprunt Field, Saturday, the Wildkittens trounced the Davidson Highs to the tune of 15
to 3. The coaching of Currie for the Highs was very evident, and they showed up well, considering the short
time they had been practicing. The game furnished many thrills, among them the pitching of Currie, and the hitting of
the Wildkittens. The errors were equally distributed. The Kittens realized that they had a hard fight on, when Coach Currie
took the mound and Allen, the receiving end for the High, for many Kittens returned to their den, without even
seeing the ball. The umpiring end of the game was equally as hard to hold, in the face of the
critical spectators, and before long Howell was substituted for Meladden. The Highs are hoping for another game with the Wildkittens
in order that they may get revenge for this defeat. Anthony and Mauze pitched while Nash received for the Kittens.

Person—“And does your son show any signs of his college training?” Egbert—“Oh, yes; he’s quite lame from an injury he
received on the football field.”

BELK BROTHERS CO. Headquarters for New Easter Suits and Furnishings NEW GOODS ARRIVING DAILY. ALL MADE BY THE VERY BEST
MANUFACTURERS AND OF THE NEWEST MATERIAL AND MODEL

The Observer Printing House Incorporated Printing and Engraving Observer Building 33 South Church Street B. R. Cates, Manager Charlotte, N.
C.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that
delicious flavor, peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style. Meal hours: Breakfast 7:30 to 9 Dinner 11:45
to 2:30 Supper 5:30 to 8 every day at reasonable prices Miss Janie Matthews Miss Lottie Hart New Central Hotel
Second Floor

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal and interest. SOUTHERN
REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO. W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

You Get More Enjoyment Out of Life If you have a NEW EDISON in the home If you do not
have one you are missing a lot LET US DEMONSTRATE THE NEW EDISON “The phonograph with a soul” OFFICE SUPPLY
& EQUIPMENT CO., Dealers CHARLOTTE, N. C. 231 S. TRYON ST.

LOUISVILLE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY Spiritual Scholarly Practical Progressive Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and
skill. Located in the heart of the chief city of the South. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry
in the Twentieth Century Write to JOHN M. VANDER MULEN, D. D., LL. D., President

Young Men’s Sport-Model Suits Big lot Young Men’s Sport-Model Suits made of the new tweed material. $19.95 $25.00

Men’s Hand Tailored Suits Schloss-Styleplus Hand Tailored Suits. Made of the newest material. Also in blue and brown pin stripes.
$25.00 $29.00 $35.00

Men’s New Easter Hats Men’s New Felt Hats, made in the newest shapes and colors $4.95 $7.00

Men’s Dress Shirts Men’s Dress Shirts made of fine percale and madras. Plain and fancy patterns $1.00 $1.50 $2.00 $2.50

College Boys’ Shirts College Boys’ Shirts made of white oxford cloth and Pongee $1.50 $2.00 $2.50

New Easter Ties New Easter Ties made of the new patterns and shapes 50c $1.00 $1.50

Men’s Hosiery Men’s Fine lisle thread Hose, all colors 25c 35c

Summer Underwear Men’s Nainsook Union Suits made of fine grade material and well made 98c $1.25

BELK BROTHERS CO.
