THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

DIXIE DOPE

North Carolina’s victory over V. M. I. reduced the number of undefeated Southern teams to five. Tech beat Georgetown, Vanderbilt
licked Kentucky, Centre mauled Washington and Lee and Auburn beat Tulane. Next week Auburn plays Centre in the most important
game of the day and unless a tie results one of the two will drop out of the race. Vandy
stands a chance of losing out when she plays Georgia and 54 Davidson students are looking forward to seeing the
Blue and White aggregation of Carolina turned in on the small end of a score Saturday through sheer fighting spirit.
The case looks bad, but then the Wildcats never say die.

South Carolina's 27-7 victory over Furman would seem to indicate that the Hurricane was outclassed, but the facts hardly read
that way. Three of the Gamecocks’ markers were intercepted passes while seven more air line efforts were garnered in to
stop Furman offensives. The game was much closer than the score indicates, but as South Carolina beat Wofford by the
same margin, our victory over the Terriers gives us at least one comparative score on the Hurricane. South Carolina’s victory
gives Clemson the best chance on the Palmetto championship, for the Tiger clipped the Gamecocks’ wings, 3-0 several weeks ago.

The South Atlantic championship stands between V. P. I. and U. N. C., with the edge slightly on the Virginians.
The two teams do not meet though both stand a chance of an upset in the V. P. I.-V. M.
I. and Carolina-Virginia games.

Auburn still tops the list of scoring teams in the South. Auburn—264, opponents, 35. Centre—255, opponents, 46. V. M. I.—243,
opponents, 16. Alabama—231, opponents, 69. V. P. I.—214, opponents, 29.

Trinity’s victory over Wake Forest puts the Methodists up another notch in the State standing. Unless Davidson licks Carolina it
looks like the Wildcats are going to have to be content with fourth place. Carolina has a clean slate so
far and stands first. State losing to the University and beating Davidson, looks best for second, while Trinity with victories
over Davidson and Wake Forest and a loss to Carolina has the edge on third place.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” SPORTING GOODS Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods.
We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros. Rackets Restrung by an Expert Myers. Hardware and Sporting
Goods Co. A. L. FAUL, Mgr. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

BILL’S BULL

Who lost the P. C., Trinity and State games? There is only one answer to that question. We, the Davidson
Student Body, the men who boast of our Wildcat Spirit, we lost those games. There is only one answer to
that question. It’s not a question of “Can we win?” and we've got to beat Carolina the night of November
18. GIVE THEM THE OTHER BARREL, TEAM!

A Davidson student recently received a letter saying “Davidson students are no longer Wildcats, they’re pole cats.” Does that insult
make you see red? Are we willing to take that without fighting back? Are we going to hand over Davidson’s
claim to the best spirit in the world without a fight? Or, are we going to grit our teeth, clinch
our fists, and go into the Carolina game to kill, to win back our prestige and the right to look
the world in the face and say “I’m a Davidson Man!”

The Charlotte Observer said Trinity clipped the Wildcats’ Claws. We may be clipped but we aren’t Wildcats Humbled, but Tar
Heel Tumblers. Team’s ability 25 per cent, team’s fight 25 per cent, student body spirit 50 per cent. It’s not
a question of football teams. It’s a question of spirit and fight. HAVE WE GOT IT? SHOW THE WORLD That
there’s nothing that ever came out of Chapel Hill that equals Wildcat spirit. That with the Wildcat fighting, sixteen Carolina
teams can’t beat us. That we’re not Outspirited Polecats but FIGHTING WILDCATS!

The alumni have never questioned the fighting spirit of the Student Body. Do you think they have been feeling this
fall as they’ve read “Spirit alone beat the Wildcats,” and Saturday we have a chance to redeem ourselves. Let them
know us throughout the country as fighters—and winners. Let’s say it with touchdowns on the field—and flowers afterwards.

CLASS BASKETBALL

C. M. CLARKE—D

W L Pet.
Seniors 3 3 0 1.000
Sophs 3 2 0 .667
Juniors 3 1 2 .333
Fresh 3 0 3 .000

Mitchell
McBryde
Anderson
Morrison
Bachman
Bradley
Caddell
Bostick
Parker
Gentry
Elliott
Koenig
Richards

JUNIOR-SENIOR GAME

The Seniors and Juniors played off their third game in the class championship series. The Juniors had it all their
way after the first half. After both teams were given some hurried, last-minute instructions by their experienced coaches, the men
took their positions, and the ball was tossed up betweenthe two centers, the game was on. After the movies Friday
night, the Fresh C. Montague Clarke entered Davidson with the class of '24. He at once became prominent as one
of the best football prospects of the season. Even in his Fresh year, Montague pushed Sam Davis for his berth
on tackle and even made the famous Hammet hustle to hold on to his job. The fall of his second
year brought even more success to Scooter. He received his “D” and when he returned this year he had a
certain place on the first string. Montague is the heaviest man on the team, and his weight together with his
ability to handle himself makes him one of the most formidable tackles in the State. He is a fast man
on going down under punts and is just as fast at getting plays in scrimmage. He is responsible for many
a man being thrown for a loss. Montague is an all-round man, being one of the best mixers on the
Hill. He is popular with everybody and is always ready for fun or excitement. Clarke is a valuable man and
will be one of the Wildcat mainstays next year.

In this first half, the Juniors were able to carry the ball down the floor without much opposition; but when
the time came to shoot, a Freshman would always be on the job, and back down the court the ball
would go. At seemingly long intervals, each team would succeed in dropping in a field goal. The crowd, almost to
a man, yelled for the Fresh, and on several occasions, they responded nobly to this support. Coming from behind, they
would tie up the count with a long, beautiful shot. The half was indeed an exciting one, and ended with
the Juniors leading by two points, 11-9. Elkins and McBryde accounted for all of the 11 points made by the
Juniors. Between halves, the Juniors, in some mysterious manner, were endowed with new zeal and determination, and looked like an
entirely new team throughout the second half, although the Fresh fought just as hard. (Continued on Page 6)

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.
WE'LL TELL YOU MORE ABOUT IT LATER
P. S.—Our Shoes are built to a high standard of quality, then fairly priced. Thirty-five years of practical experience behind
every pair.

CHONG’S LETTER
Davidson College, November 13, 1922.

Dear Joe:

The Wildcats ran over the Terriers last Saturday and made a showing that was highly pleasing to all Red and
Black followers. The Davidson team outgained the Wofford team in every way but had to drop behind in the punting
department. That fellow Hoole could certainly boot the ball but I would hardly be willing to say that he averaged
well over 80 on all his punts. His 50 and 60-yard spirals looked good enough without adding 20 yards to
the distance. The Wildcats displayed a flashy attack and were able to gain consistently at all times, but were handicapped
by heavy penalties. The way it looked to us birds who were getting the reports over the radio, about three
plays would be run and then would come a penalty, but as it was, the Wildcats were able to make
five touchdowns. Nappy Davis and Popsy Hunt each contributed a pair of markers and Jim Hendrix contributed the remaining counter.
Spratt drop-kicked for the extra point on the first three touchdowns and twice the ball sailed straight over the uprights.
On the third trial, the kick failed but Wofford was offside and he got the point just the same.

The aerial attack of the Wildcats was especially flashy and time after time the wingmen grabbed the oval for long
gains. Nappy gained 151 yards on passes and two of these went for touchdowns. Two passes for over 50 yards
and one 35-yard pass were his chief gains. Hunt intercepted a pass and ran 50 yards for the Wildcats’ last
counter. Jim Hendrix ripped off one of his sensational dashes around the flanks for a 35-yard gain and placed the
ball within striking distance of the Terriers' goal. The Wildcats are once more on the right side of the ledger
with 78 points against 67 for the opposition. In the two remaining games, the Wildcats are going to keep the
figures looking right, too. Carolina has a strong team and the Wildcats are grooming themselves for a hard scrap Saturday,
but it will take a strong team to stop us Saturday and to win Carolina will have to whip 540
of the scrappingest animals alive. The Princeton Tigers did the work last Saturday against Harvard and the Davidson Wildcat will
be on hand next Saturday. There is no question that the Tar Heels have a great team and one which
fights to the end. They came from behind against the Flying Squadron and nosed out a hard-earned victory, 9-7. The
Carolinians gained 106 yards on forward passes to the Virginians’ 40; 48 yards to 42 on end runs, and 133
to 37 on line plays, or a total of 287 yards to 119. They earned their victory and they were
unwilling to be nosed out by an intercepted pass. It will take all we've got to bring home the bacon
but we'll make a big stab at it and the Tar Heels won’t emerge scratchless.

Our Turkey Day opponents were frocked again, this time by a 27-7 count. Everybody up here is congratulating the Gamecocks
for stopping the once formidable Purple Hurricane. “Frock Furman” seems to be the motto of everybody these days and the
Wildcats' double slogan is, “Crush Carolina and Frock Furman.” Those Furman boys haven't quite got the heavy backfield though, kid.
Two 190-pounders and the average weight of the backfield is 174 pounds. Three p.m. Saturday will see me in the
bleachers at Wearn Field along with 500 others and don’t forget there'll be a fight, although many believe it'll be
a runaway. We're going to make Carolina’s wonder team wonder what's happening.

CHONG.

Notwithstanding her defeat by Carolina, V. M. I. is still tied with Vanderbilt for defensive work. Both teams have held
their opponents to 16 points. None of the Commodore opposition has been able to accumulate enough for a victory.

We Will Be Looking for All the Boys SATURDAY
Exclusive Men’s Shop
Make This Your Headquarters
Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Clothing and Furnishings for Young Men
