THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 24, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN
North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Forum Editor
Campus Editor
Y. M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Athletic Editor
Alumni Editor
Publicity Editor

M. C. A. Editor
Social Editor
Literary Editor
Athletic Editor
Alumni Editor
Publicity Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
FEWELL, ED.
MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres
BRADFORD, W.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W.
BROWN, C.
HESTON
M. Sec.-Treas
BROWN
MOUNT
TULLER, C. D.
COXE
JONES
WALTHALL, D. B.
ELKINS, L. D.
LACY, T. A.
WILDMAN, A. C.
ELLIOTT, W. T.
MAUZE, E. H.
WILDMAN, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
Business Manager
SHEPARD

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
C. WOOD
L. A. TAYLOR
E. T. WOOLFOLK
Assistant Business Managers
Assistant Circulation Department:
POSSELLS
S. C. FAIN
P. C. HENDERSON
Assistant Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

The Wake Forest game on Saturday night will end the basketball season for this year. Now for baseball.

WHO WON THE GAME?

It is not the custom of the Davidsonian to offer alibis for Davidson defeats, nor do we ask that anyone give us credit for victories which we have not won. If we believe that our team has been outplayed we do not hesitate to admit the fact, and to give our rivals credit for their skill. In a case where a sports writer takes a clear-cut Davidson victory, however, and makes it appear in his newspaper story as a victory for our opponents, we cannot refrain from voicing our protest. Of such a nature was the recent account of the Davidson-Trinity basketball game which appeared in the columns of the Charlotte Observer.

In the game under discussion, the Wildcats were victors by a five-point margin, their success being in no respect due to a fluke. Davidson was as clearly the winner in this contest as Trinity had been in the previous game between the institutions, which the Methodists had won by six points. Instead of giving any credit to the Wildcat Five, however, the sports writer of the Observer attempted to portray the game as a Trinity victory. His only difficulty seemed to lie in the fact that the score was in favor of Davidson, and his article failed to satisfactorily account for that fact. He described the Methodists as a crippled team with two men missing, and as handicapped by not knowing their signals, and yet gives them credit for displaying superior training and for outplaying Davidson. Every possible excuse was made for the defeated team. In concluding the article, the statement was made that Davidson’s five-point margin was accounted for by her five goals from fouls. Immediately below comes the statement that Trinity scored seven points by the same method. The inference seems to be that Trinity’s seven points had no effect on the score but that Davidson’s five accounted for the victory.

The story was plainly unfair and prejudiced, if not unsportsmanlike throughout, and we cannot believe that it is in accord with the Observer’s policy of printing only unbiased accounts of athletic contests. The Trinity team was doubtless handicapped by the ineligibility of two players and we sympathize with them in their misfortune. No mention has been made, however, of the fact that one of Davidson's star players of last year has been ineligible all year on account of his studies, and failed to play in either Trinity game, nor has Davidson tried to explain any of her defeats on this ground. As to the statement that Trinity outplayed Davidson, there are many spectators who take issue with the Observer. The fact remains that the Wildcats were clearly the winners, and should have been given credit for their victory.

DAVIDSON’S NEW ATHLETIC POLICY.

In a rather inconspicuous place in last week’s Davidsonian there appeared an article perhaps fraught with greater possibilities for the success of Davidson’s athletic teams than any which has gone before it. It was a statement of the new policy of the college in the matter of the control of all forms of athletics here. Hitherto the government in such matters has lain wholly with the faculty; in the future, the alumni too are to have a share in the decisions. The entire athletic policy of the college will be under the control of a council composed of four representatives from the faculty and three from the alumni. A special attempt will be made to improve Davidson’s teams by the securing of more funds, and the provision of more coaches and better equipment for the players. At the same time, our ancient policy of offering athletes no financial inducements to attend this college will be strictly adhered to. The advantages of the new plan are easily apparent. Davidson alumni have always been ardent supporters of their college and its teams, but they have lacked anything to bring them into vital contact with their Alma Mater. The newly adopted arrangement will not only give them renewed interest in athletics here, but through giving them a share in the control of these affairs will assure the permanence of their support. It is the breaking of a new day for athletics at Davidson.

Open Forum

LET’S DO!

This season, fellows, we should, more than ever lately, be proud of our basketball team. For the first time in several years, it has won most of its games on foreign courts; and with its successes here at home, we can justly claim a team deserving to compete with Carolina for the state championship. But have we ever thought what will be the reward of our players for thus upholding the honor of old Davidson and spreading her fame? Under the efficient direction of Coach Grey and Coach Hengeveld, our athletics are being put on a new basis. Why can’t we show our loyalty and appreciation, and take one step forward ourselves? Is it exactly fair to the basketball players if we give sweaters to the other teams and leave them out entirely? Of course, money is scarce and we are called upon often, but it seems that Davidson men would be willing to back their team to this extent, especially when we consider what other schools do. It has been suggested that we try the same scheme that was used to buy the baseball sweaters last spring. If everybody will pay a quarter to see the last game, the money can be used to pay for sweaters and we will never miss it. If for our quarter we can see a victory over Wake Forest, I know we will all feel well repaid.

A WALKING SUGGESTION.

The Forum Editor made a statement a while back that if anyone had an idea that they wanted expressed to do so through its columns. Well, I haven’t a suggestion of my own, but there is one that I heard the other night that I would like to pass on for what it is worth. At one of the Literary Societies Thursday night, the statement was made by one of the speakers that a good use to put the old bricks of Chambers to would be to build brick walks all over the campus. This seemed all right at the time, but later it was brought out in a discussion that nobody wanted brick walks around here, that they wouldn’t be in keeping with the rest of the campus. Then another bright young fellow got his thinking cap to working and brought forth the proposition that all the bricks be ground into small particles and that walks be made out of this fine material. Now I'm no civil engineer, not having taken even Applied Math, but stillThis seemed to me like a pretty sane and common-sense plan. There are lots of bricks from old Chambers which are broken and cannot be used for any building purposes. Why not grind these up and make good walks? They would make firm, substantial, long-wearing, and, above all, quick-drying walks. The experiment might be tried on the Rumple-Phi Society Hall path, and if it worked there, it could be extended further. You folks that have all the learning and know about such things, tell us whether this is a good plan, and if it is, do all you can to see that this plan is put across. 

Ego.

D.

UNIQUE BOOK CLUB FORMED BY LADIES OF DAVIDSON

A unique Book Club, unnamed as yet, has recently been formed at Davidson among the ladies of the town. The membership is to be limited to 13 active members and 13 associate members, the husbands of the active members being taken in as associates. Although a constitution and by-laws have not yet been adopted, very interesting and attractive meetings are being arranged. It is planned to have one meeting a month with only the active members present and one meeting of both active and associate members, the latter being a general get-together preceded by a supper when feasible. Each member is to bring one book per year and exchange every month. By this means, books not otherwise obtainable will be secured. The present active membership is as follows: Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Mrs. R. W. Pettingill, Miss Mary Monroe, Mrs. J. W. McConnell, Miss May Ellenwood, Mrs. F. K. Fleagle, Mrs. T. G. Hearn, Mrs. W. G. Porter, and Mrs. Hurd.

Under the efficient leadership of...

With Other Colleges

OLD D. C. MAN HEADS ELON “Y.”

Elon, N. C., Feb. 22—After the regular chapel service here this morning, a meeting of the Y. M. C. A. was called for the purpose of electing officers for the next term. Loyd J. Bray, the vice-president for this session, was elected president for the coming year. P. D. Rudd was elected vice-president and M. Z. Rhodes, secretary. The Y. M. C. A. has been an active organization on the campus this year and promises to hold its place during the coming year.

D.

THE “QUEENS” OF QUEENS STUDY POLITICS.

Charlotte, N. C., Feb. 22—Rena Blanton, president of the Student Government Association, and Margaret Anderson, prominent member of the Senior class, attended the National League of Women Voters’ Convention which met in Greensboro February 15 and 16. Miss Blanton was sent by the student body and Miss Anderson by the college to represent Queens. The delegates derived much valuable knowledge concerning woman's place in present-day affairs.

D.

DR. VOIGHT AT LENOIR.

Hickory, N. C., Feb. 22—Lenoir College was honored by a short visit from Dr. Voight, dean of the Lutheran Theological Seminary at Columbia, the first of last week. While here, Dr. Voight delivered three addresses: Sunday morning to the Diakonian Club, at St. Andrews congregation, and Monday morning to the student body at the regular chapel exercises.

D.

NEW DEAN AT MEREDITH.

Raleigh, N. C., Feb. 22—Miss Gertrude Royster has been appointed Dean of Women for the remainder of the spring semester. This position was left vacant by the death of Miss Evelyn Campbell. Miss Royster has been Director of Physical Education for several years and is ably qualified to fill the position she now holds.

D.

SHAKESPEARE READER AT ELON.

Elon, N. C., Feb. 22—C. E. W. Griffith, celebrated American reader of the Chicago Shakespeare Club, entertained here last Wednesday, February 8. In the afternoon, Mr. Griffith gave a skillful interpretation of Shakespeare’s famous tragedy, “Hamlet,” and in the evening proved himself equally skilled and talented in comedy when he read, “As You Like It.” The entertainments were given under the auspices of the Music Lovers’ Club of Elon College. It was the last of a series of entertainments which have been provided by the club this season.

D.

QUEENS BLUES MOVES INTO NEW QUARTERS

Charlotte, N. C., Feb. 22—The Queens Blues staff will give a housewarming in their new office Saturday, February 18. The staff is looking forward to occupying this new office with much interest.

D.

ODDS AND ENDS.

(Meredith)—Thirty-five Juniors and Seniors were the guests of the State College Agricultural men on Saturday evening, February 11, at their annual reception. The boys made delightful hosts and an unusually good time was enjoyed by the Meredith guests.

(Queens)—Robert H. Thompson, of New York, memory expert, with two friends visited Queens College last Wednesday morning. Mr. Thompson spoke on the value of developing an active and retentive memory.

D.

The student body and townspeople are interested in hearing that seven buildings of Southern College, at Clearwater, Florida, were burned last week. Doctor Hunt, former Biology professor here, is a member of the faculty of that institution.

IF YOU'LL TELL ME

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

MYSELF.

I have to live with myself, and so I want to fit myself to know. I want to be able as days go by, always to look myself straight in the eye. I don’t want to stand with the setting sun and hate myself for the things I’ve done. I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf a lot of secrets about myself, and fool myself, as I come and go, into thinking that nobody else will know the kind of man I really am. I don’t want to dress myself up in sham, I want to go out with my head erect, I want to deserve all men’s respect; but here in the struggle for fame and pelf, I want to be able to like myself. I don’t want to look at myself and know that I'm bluster and bluff and empty show. I never can hide myself from me; I see what others may never see; I know what others may never know. I never can fool myself, and so, whatever happens, I want to be self-respecting and conscience-free.

—Selected.

D.

Princeton, N. J.—Power to expel students without giving reasons to the faculty has been granted to the undergraduate governing body of the University. This body is composed of students elected by all the classes and may exercise the right of dismissal over those whom they find guilty of not upholding the good name and traditions of Princeton.

D.

I DON’T WANT TO BE BAD.

I don’t want to be bad, but I sure would like to “roll my own” and be a “vamp” and “bob” my hair. I don’t want to be bad but, oh, how I wish some big, good-looking man would grab me up in his arms and say I was cute and, oh, so sensible and—but of course I don’t wanna be bad.

D.

FIGURE IT OUT.

How many apples did Adam and Eve eat? Some say Eve eight and Adam two—a total of ten only. Now we figure the thing out far differently: Eve eight and Adam eight also—total 16. We think the above figures are entirely wrong: If Eve eight and Adam 82, certainly the total will be 90. Scientific men, however, on the strength of the theory that the antediluvians were giants, reason something like this: Eve 81 and Adam 82—total 163. Wrong again. What could be clearer than if Eve 81, Adam 812 which makes 893.

—Ex.

D.

THE COLLEGE STAR.

His name appears on all the lists of those who vied in sports, he shook a pair of wicked fists; he starred on tennis courts; his inshoot was a thing of dread to each opposing batter, professors thought him tight of head, but do professors matter? At basketball he caged the sphere with super-human art; he vaulted high and fast and clear; and sped like any dart on cinder paths until he won; his fame is common knowledge. His learning may be underdone, but—rah, rah, rah for college!

—Ex.

D.

Mrs. Hurd gave a small “42” party on Washington’s birthday in her apartments at the McConnell home.