THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

DR. THORNTON WHALING INSTRUCTOR AT LOUISVILLE SEMINARY

Classmate of Woodrow Wilson—Stands High in List of Davidson’s Sons.

Rev. Dr. Thornton Whaling, Professor at Louisville Theological Seminary, was born at Radford, Va., June 5, 1858. He, with ex-President Woodrow Wilson, entered Davidson as a member of the class of ’77, but like the President, did not remain at Davidson long enough to carry away the diploma of the college. However, he made good this deficiency by winning the A.B. degree at Roanoke College in 1879, the family having moved from Charlotte to Salem, Va.; and that of A.M. in 1885.

He attended Union Theological Seminary, New York, 1879-1881, and Columbia Theological Seminary, 1882-1883. Both Austin and Roanoke College honored him with the degree of D.D., and later the Southwestern Presbyterian University added an LL.D. to his name and, in continuance of the good work, Louisiana College made him Doctor of Literature.

Ordained to the Presbyterian ministry in 1883, Doctor Whaling held pastorates in Cheraw, S. C., and Birmingham, Ala., from 1883 to 1902. From 1892 to 1896 he served as Professor of Philosophy and Economics in Southwestern Presbyterian University. From 1896 to 1905 he was pastor of the church at Lexington, Va. Called from Lexington to Dallas, Tex., he served in the pastorate there from 1905 to 1911.

Doctor Whaling was President of Columbia Theological Seminary during the years 1911-1921 and in connection with the duties of this office filled the chair of Didactic and Polemic Theology. He has been Professor of Systematic Theology and Apologetics of Louisville Seminary since leaving Columbia.

During these busy years as pastor, teacher, and executive, he has found time to write a great deal. In addition to his contributions to the religious papers and quarterlies he has written and published among others, the following books: The Church and Education; Jesus Christ and Christian Doctrine; Questions in Theology. In 1913 Dr. Whaling was chosen to deliver the Avera Bible Lectures at Trinity College.

It might be difficult to decide in what line of work Dr. Whaling has attained his most marked success. Certainly he is most widely and favorably known as an orator, as a sermon maker, as a writer, interested particularly in both philosophy and theology and ecclesiastical questions. Both in religious periodicals and on the floor of the church courts, from the lowest to the highest, he has proven himself a brilliant debater and profound thinker. In his platform work he lacks neither thought, oratorical power, nor coherency in argument or pronouncement, as was evidenced here at Davidson last week. His command of English is notable and affecting as he does the rhetorical figure, and enlivening his discourse, where occasion permits, he is heard in any assembly with marked interest and great pleasure by everybody, save, it may be, the few over whose head he unfortunately talks.

Dr. Whaling evidences his interest in Davidson, the first Alma Mater that nourished him intellectually, by continuing to serve, as he has for years, on the board of trustees and as a member of the executive committee of the college.

HERE AND THERE.

Rev. Hay Watson Smith, 1890, has again taken up his work in Little Rock, Ark. He has for the past few months been confined to a hospital in Asheville, due to throat trouble.

F. F. Baker, 1913, has changed from the mission station at Caxambia, Minas, Brazil, to the mission station at Barginha, Minas, Brazil.

John James, 1909, spent a few days on the Hill last week. He has recently resigned the presidency of the Synodical College of Fulton, Missouri, to accept a position as Dean of Chicora College, Columbia, S. C.

Lacy L. McAlister, 1920, is recovering from a severe cold that for a while threatened to turn into pneumonia. Lacy, who was president of the student body in 1920, is traveling for the Southern Life Insurance Company, of Greensboro, N.C. He was recently made a deacon in the Church By-the-Side-of-the-Road, in Greensboro, N. C.

Of the six men who composed the team from Columbia Seminary three were former Davidson students. They were: E. A. Beatty, 1920; Sam Burney Hay, 1916, and W. B. Yandell, ex-1917. E. A. Beatty, 1920, better known as Doc, is holding up to the standard in regard to scholastic averages. He has averaged over 95 since going to Columbia. Doc earned his pin money last year by writing Junior speeches, as his ability in that line was nothing short of remarkable.

Rev. T. T. Gillespie, D.D., 1904, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Louisville, Ky. His church has recently completed a new church building with a well-equipped Sunday School extension.

W. H. Summers, 1911, is in the automobile business in Des Moines, Iowa.

Dr. Thornton Whaling, 1877, spent the day in Davidson recently in the interest of the Louisville Theological Seminary.

C. W. Worth, 1920, and W. C. Cumming, 1918, will go to China this summer as representatives of the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington, N. C.

Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Rumple, ex-1913, from Columbus, Ohio, are visiting Mr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin.

BIRTHS.

Rev. and Mrs. R. C. Clontz announce the birth of a son, Ralph Clayton, Jr., at the Presbyterian Hospital, Charlotte, N. C. Mrs. Clontz was formerly Miss Venie Wilson, of Mount Pleasant, N. C. Mr. Clontz is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Cornelius, N. C.

MARRIAGES.

Announcement has been made of the engagement and approaching marriage of Miss Margery Cutts, of Savannah, Ga., to Latta Law, 1916, of Rock Hill, S. C., who is at present making his home at Columbia, S. C.A. Price, 1909, who was recently married, is at his home in Dallas, Tex. Miss Margaret Douglas Burton, of Newberry, S.C., was recently married to J. William Thomson, 1910, of Charlotte, N.C.

CAMPUSISMS.
Messrs. F. L. and J. F. Blythe, of the Blythe Contracting Company, Charlotte, were on the Hill last week making arrangements for the new dormitory to be erected. Mr. and Mrs. F. N. Thompson, of Mooresville, motored down on Sunday to spend a few hours visiting friends on the Hill. Messrs. Frank Jones and Jessie Yontz, of Salisbury, visited friends on the Hill last Sunday. Mr. Jones is principal of the Salisbury High School.

PHI SOCIETY MEETING IS FULL OF PEP, REPORT SAYS
The meeting of the Phi Society of last week was live and full of pep throughout. The preparation of the speakers was unusually good and the audience showed their appreciation by their close attention. The affirmative was upheld by Brown and Sloane, while Baldwin and Jones represented the negative. The debaters showed fight and argued with contagious liveliness. The Phi seems to have taken on a new life since Christmas and its work is improving all the time.

TOWN NEWS.
Miss Ethel Spaugh, of Statesville, will spend the weekend with Mrs. Thies. Mrs. Pettingill delightfully entertained at luncheon eight guests last Wednesday in honor of Mrs. Malcolm Rumple. Mrs. Hamilton is visiting relatives in Statesville this week. Miss Kalista Hood entertained a few friends in celebration of her birthday last Friday evening. Mrs. Martin was called on Thursday to the bedside of her son, William, who is seriously ill at the N.C. State College with pneumonia. Dr. Martin was unable to go, being still confined to his room. Mrs. Brady gave a Valentine party for her Sunday School class on Monday. Miss Richardson, of the Graded School faculty, has been out since last week on account of sickness. Dr. and Mrs. Polk, on their way home to Lawrenceville, N.J., from a trip to Florida, spent a few days on the Hill last week as guests of their son. Mrs. L. E. Price arrived on Thursday for a visit to her daughter, Mrs. W. W. Wood. The Civic League met on Wednesday evening to hear Dr. Collins, the new assistant county physician. He spoke very interestingly on the plans and problems in the county health work. Miss Katherine Porter very delightfully entertained some friends Monday evening with a party. The Senior Christian Endeavor Society had a social in the Civic League Hall last Saturday night. Miss Anna Roberson, of Greensboro, is spending a few weeks visiting Miss Cornelia Shaw. Miss Roberson is organist at the Westminster Presbyterian Church, of Greensboro.

THREE LIVE GHOSTS SHOWN ON LAST SATURDAY NIGHT
“The Three Live Ghosts” was the picture shown last Saturday night by the Y.M.C.A. The time of the story was immediately after the cessation of hostilities in the great World War, the scene being laid in the great English metropolis, London. The characters, three war buddies and a typical Irish mother, were well portrayed. The blunders of “Spoofy,” a demented member of the trio, finally brought love, prosperity, and happiness to the entire party. In addition to the customary musical program by the “Y” orchestra, music was furnished by the Columbia Seminary Quartette. The picture for next Saturday, according to schedule, is “Get Rich Quick Wallingford.” This film has been widely advertised and is highly recommended.

COLUMBIA SEMINARY QUARTETTE (Continued from page 1)
with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co., in New Orleans. He came to the Seminary last year and is pastor of the Woodrow Memorial Church, at Columbia, S.C. Ernest A. Beatty graduated from Davidson in 1921. While here he roomed with “General” Hall. He has secured quite a bit of fame due to the fact that his brother, a Seminary student, made 99 in Hebrew.

If she didn’t have her hair bobbed,
If she didn’t daub her face with paint,
If she had her dresses made to reach
To where dresses ain't.
If she didn’t have that baby voice,
And spoke as she should;
Don’t you think she’d be as popular?
I hardly think she would.

BART-SCHAFFNER & MARX SUITS
MELLON’S

UNDABESTOS
The Practical Covering for Underground Steam Lines
Used by many prominent Southern Colleges
General Equipment Company
Realty Bldg.
Charlotte, N.C.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

DOLLAR
Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc.
Troy, N.Y.

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH
A wonderful sticking surface and 36 square inches of pure rubber. A substantial screw top box. A money-back guarantee with every box. Retail everywhere for 50c.
J.S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S.C.

Peppermint flavored chewing gum with Peppermint Sugar Coating. Refreshes and soothes mouth and throat.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N.C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
75 Chambers

L.A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I've got all the supplies for them
FRUITS
CANDIES
PICKLES
SANDWICHES
“an’ everything”

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

COLLEGE JEWELRY
WATCHES AND CLOCKS
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N.C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHOES FURNISHINGS
We are ready in this
Army Shoes
Dress Shoes and Tennis Shoes
We also carry a complete line of Knox
Barnette