THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

TOWN NEWS

The Epworth League was delightfully entertained with a Hallowe’en bed by Rev. and Mrs. R. L. Foster Tuesday night.

Doctor Martin addressed the Charlotte branch of the Alumni Association last Friday evening on “The Needs of Davidson.”

Davidson was well represented at the Burwell-Murphy wedding at Hopewell last week. Dr. and Mrs. J. W. McConnell, Mrs. W. R. Grey and Miss Grey, Dr. and Mrs. A. Currie, and S. B. Crow, ’25, were among those present.

The relatives and friends of Mr. and Mrs. Smile Washam wish to extend their heartfelt sympathy in the loss of their little son.

Mrs. Olin White has re-opened her boarding house in her new home adjoining the post office.

Mr. Lloyd Christenbury returned to Davidson last Friday night with his bride. They were married October 25th at Pratt City, Alabama. Prior to her marriage, Mrs. Christenbury was Miss Ruby Barnard.

Miss Adele Allison, of Washington, D.C., is here on a visit at the home of Mrs. Paisley.

The stewards of the Methodist Church had a combined business and social meeting at the home of Mr. M. I. Goodrum Friday night. Their work for the coming year was planned.

Prof. and Mrs. Erwin, accompanied by the Misses Young and Miss McDowell, went to Charlotte last Tuesday to see De Wolf Hopper’s “Pianoforte.”

Mrs. Erwin entertained at dinner last Friday in honor of Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va., and Miss Maggie McDowell, of Morgantown, N.C. Those present were the Misses Young, Miss McDowell, Dr. W. L. Lingle, Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle, and Professor Goldiere.

On Friday last, Dr. E. H. Harding passed his 90th milestone. His daughter, Mrs. Whitaker, gave a dinner party in his honor. The guests were Dr. and Mrs. C. H. Harding and Mrs. Schenck, of Davidson; Dr. and Mrs. A. A. McGeachy, Dr. and Mrs. Addison Brenizer and Addison, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. Robert Harding and Robert, Jr., of Charlotte, and Dr. Henry Dodson, of Greensboro.

Miss Lula Grey, of Hendersonville, N.C., has been the guest at the home of her brother, Dr. W. R. Grey.

Miss Elizabeth Arbuckle left for Hampden-Sidney, Va., last Monday after an extended visit with her uncle, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle.

Mrs. Ogden Edwards, of Washington, D.C., is the weekend guest of Dr. and Mrs. Martin.

A number of students attended the circus in Charlotte last Tuesday.

Miss Willie Campbell has been at home for a few days following her graduation from a training school in Washington, D.C.

Miss Shaw visited her sister in the Charlotte hospital last Tuesday.

DR. LINGLE DELIVERS (Continued from page one)

Christ? To grow like Jesus Christ we must have the proper kind of food and this food is the Word of God. To grow we must study God’s word. A young infant will not grow to be a healthy child without the proper kind of food, neither will a Christian become like Christ if he does not feed on and be nourished by the word of God. Those Christians who are growing like Christ are feeding on the Word of God. We must think the thoughts of Christ and let Him dwell in our souls and in our minds. Someone has said that the faces of a man and a woman living together for a long time begin to look alike. So if we think Christ's thoughts, they will be transformed into our faces and lives.

Another way of becoming like Christ is to live in a pure atmosphere. It is true that we grow best when we breathe pure air into our lungs. This is not only so for our physical development but also for our spiritual development. The atmosphere of our spiritual life is made up of our friends, the books we read, and our forms of amusement and recreation. So in this part of our development, are we moving with friends who are helping us live like Christ or with those who are pulling us down? Are the books we read filling our minds and souls...

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
3 p.m.—Fresh vs. N.C. Fresh football at Pinehurst.
3 p.m.—Phi Society.
7:30 p.m.—Eu Society.
8 p.m.—Everett Bishop concert.

FRIDAY
8 p.m.—Juniors vs. Fresh, basketball.

SATURDAY
8:30 a.m.—Armistice Day exercises.
3:30 p.m.—Wildcats vs. Wofford in Charlotte.
3:30 p.m.—Freshmen vs. Wilmington Light Infantry in Wilmington.
3:30 p.m.—Scrubs vs. State scrubs in Pinehurst.

SUNDAY
10 a.m.—Volunteer Band.
11 a.m.—Church services.
1 p.m.—C.E. Training class.
1:45 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
3:30 p.m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper services. Biddle quintet.

MONDAY
7:15 p.m.—Metrophilian Fresh Society.

TUESDAY
7 p.m.—Pandemic Society.
7 p.m.—Metrophilian Society.
8 p.m.—Juniors vs. Seniors, basketball.
9 p.m.—Bible class leaders.

WEDNESDAY
9 p.m.—Bible classes.with low and degrading things, or are they helping us to live better and more Christ-like lives? And are our amusements really re-creating in mind and soul? A person who would become like Christ must exercise. He must be a living example of the teachings of Christ. Some people are hearers of the word and not doers. Jesus wants his gospel translated into flesh and blood, for a Christianity worth having is worth passing on. T.D. Hear Bishop.

D. DEVEREUX ARTISTS (Continued from Page One)

Of the heads of the two houses, Montague and Capulet, Montague was by far the most impressive. He had all of the dignity of his station. Mercutio was the jolly fellow who was always ready with a witty remark or a laugh. The scene which is commonly known as the balcony scene in which Juliet talks to Romeo from the balcony of her bed chamber, was unusually beautiful. Friar Lawrence, who was to marry Romeo and Juliet and who counseled them during the long succession of tragedies which overtook them during the remainder of the play, was a fine impersonation of the spiritual and scholarly medieval monk. The last scene in the tomb of the Capulets is the saddest in the play as is always the case in the last act of a tragedy. The death of Juliet is as graceful as are the rest of her motions. Although the company does not enjoy the fame of Sothern and Marlowe, it is exceedingly good. Mr. Devereux and his company are playing at all the leading colleges of the South. Notwithstanding the difficulties which had to be overcome, such as a small and poorly equipped stage and inadequate lighting facilities, the backgrounds and lighting effects were in perfect harmony. Of course, the scenery for a Shakespearean play is necessarily scanty, leaving a large part of the setting to the imagination of the audience. This did not, however, detract from the play in the least. Davidson was very fortunate in having a chance to see this company and play, and it is hoped that Mr. Devereux and his company will come to Davidson again during the course of another season.

Gentlemen's suitcases. "Prices you can afford to pay" FIVE DOORS ABOVE THE BANKS

Did you ever stop to think how many leather articles you use? Quite a number, eh? Well, we are ready to supply your every need from coin purses to suitcases. Two extremes—yes; but we have them both from the same maker, "Cook of Camden," one of the best leather houses in the country. The prices are as low as the quality will admit. Likewise, shoes are made of leather, that is, the good ones are, and ours are of that kind: FLORSHEIM for dress and the dependable BROWN'S or HERMANN for heavier service.

Sincerely, Mr. Furnishings Fidler, DAVIDSON

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Red and Black machine defeated the Furman eleven at Greenville last Saturday with a score of 48 to 14. Although heavily outweighed, the Wildcats held firm during the first half and the whistle left the score 14 to 13 in Furman’s favor. However, in the last half, the team broke loose and scored five touchdowns in quick succession, giving Davidson a sensational victory.

The fall tennis tournament which started several days ago came to an end last Wednesday, A. P. Saunders winning the championship in singles. A special train to run from Charlotte to Winston, via Davidson, has been secured to haul the student body to the Carolina game next Saturday. The annual scholastic cup awarded to the fraternity making the highest average during the past year was awarded to the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, whose members made an average grade of 83.62. Much interest is being shown in the class basketball series this year. At present, the Sophomore class is leading. The first issue of the Davidson College magazine appeared last week with a more or less spectacular cover, although the material in it was of the highest quality. The peculiar cover was substituted for the standard one by the publisher, and the mistake will be remedied before the next number appears. The Y. M. C. A. has organized for the boys of the town a local chapter of the Boy Scouts. At present, the membership is 18. Another organization known as the Pioneers of America is being planned for the boys between the ages of nine and twelve.

"Competition is the life of trade. But only an undertaker knows the real meaning of stiff competition." D. Hear Bishop.

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS PIANOS Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT 16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE CLAUDE LEE, Manager

THURSDAY, 9th FRIDAY, 10th SATURDAY, 11th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA G. Shulze, Director Descriptive Overture “The County Fair” PATHE NEWS AND COMEDY ACADEMY ORCHESTRA Selection: “Apple Blossoms” Fox Trot—“Away Down South” JOHNSON and BAKER In “Practice” JACK HUGHES DUO Versatile Instrumental Virtuosi HERON and GAYLORD Bertie Bonnie In “The Corking Girls” EMMA EARLE “When I Was Young” LEONA HALL’S REVUE In “Bits of 1922” Five People in a Combination of Music, Comedy, Dance