THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

Dark, grim November, stalking by, grieves for the year so soon to go; Brown tints upon the hillsides lie and in the air come hints of snow. Dim, morning shadows fill the day, The flowers are dead, the birds have flown; Leaves are heaped in stark array— The brook’s voice will bring a solemn tone.
—Joel Benton.

EUMANEAN SOCIETY MEETS IN REGULAR SESSION

The regular meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society, held Thursday evening, October 26, was one of the shortest of the year. Three of the eight regular speakers of the evening were present and two were appointed from the house. The question for debate, Resolved, That the U. S. should adopt a system of arbitration of strikes similar to that of Canada, was hotly contested by W. T. Jones, Biddle, Frazer, and R. H. Smith. As two of the speeches were impromptu, the debate was not what it should have been, several of the arguments being quite unsound and without authority. A short but forceful oration on the subject, “Don’t Be Satisfied,” was delivered by H. M. Morris. During the evening, plans were discussed for a meeting of the Fresh society before the Senior Eumaneans, to take place Thursday, November 2.

PANDEMIC SOCIETY HAS BANNER MEET OF YEAR

The meeting of the Pandemics this week was the best that they have had this term. The subject for debate was, Resolved, That the United States should adopt a system of arbitration in labor disputes similar to that of Canada. Hudgins and Huie on the affirmative opposed Young and Cox, P., on the negative. The speeches showed results of careful preparation and the points were hotly contested. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative. J. E. Milton delivered as an oration, a selection from “The Strenuous Life,” by Roosevelt. H. I. Currie reported on the current events of the week. The feature of the evening was an expository lecture on the Panama Canal by W. T. Baker. He used diagrams and photographs to illustrate his description of the canal and the canal zone. Baker brought out the fact that the American people should be proud of this great work which was accomplished by American genius.

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS PROF. ERWIN SPEAK

The third meeting this year of the Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity was held on October 23rd in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall. This was the first meeting in which the regular literary program was carried out and practically all of the members were present to enjoy it. The program as carried out was as follows: Professor Erwin read an exceedingly interesting and scholarly article on “The Technique of the One-Act Play.” His hearers were greatly impressed with his thorough knowledge of the subject. It was voted unanimously by the club to have him make a synopsis of the article to guide other members in their work in the future. This Professor Erwin kindly consented to do. A very important part of the program was the first act of a play read by its author, W. J. Cooper. This was the first of a number of discussions that will be held by various members of the club this semester on “The One-Act Play.” Probably the most thoroughly enjoyed part of the program came last when delicious refreshments were served. After a delightful social hour, the club adjourned until two weeks hence.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY HOLDS REGULAR MEETING

The Metrophilian Society held an interesting meeting last Tuesday evening at 7:15. The subject for debate was, Resolved, That the privilege of the people to recall their judges should be generally adopted in the United States. The affirmative was upheld by Morrow and Matheson, and the negative by Fenton and Bradford. The debate was one of the best this year. The men on both sides showed good preparation and study. The judges decided two to one in favor of the affirmative. The extemporaneous debate was especially interesting, Resolved, That Davidson should vote bonds to widen the State highway within the town limits. The affirmative was represented by Henderson, and the negative by H. D. Brown. The decision was again rendered in favor of the affirmative. R. L. Price delivered an oration on “Chains.” He showed us what an important link each one of us held in the great chain here at Davidson.

PHI SOCIETY PROGRAM COMPOSED OF NEW MEN

The new men in the Phi are coming to the fore. Last Thursday night four new men participated in the program. W. H. Fitts and C. E. Houston gave declamations. Both of these men were above the average in delivery, poise, and easy position on the floor. They held the attention of their audience throughout the performance. “The Cremation of Sam McGhee,” by Fitts, held the precedence of the two, though the“Death of Benedict Arnold,” by Houston, was not to be criticised. The new men on the debate were J. F. Carrigan and A. B. Clator on the affirmative, while H. M. Wells and J. H. Holtzhouser represented the negative. The debate, Resolved, That the United States should have a system of arbitration to settle labor disputes similar to that of Canada. The decision committee rendered a unanimous decision in favor of the negative. Professor Wagner thanked the society for electing him an honorary member and, by request, gave an appreciative criticism of the declamations.

People Will Talk
If you love a man, he isn’t worth it.
If you don’t, you don't know what you want.
If you lead him on, you're a flirt.
If you ignore him, you're a snob.
If he’s old, you're robbing the grave.
If he’s young, you're rocking the cradle.
If you stay at home, you're an old maid.
If you don’t, you're too gay.
Pray tell me, what’s a poor girl to do? —Tulane Hullabaloo.

DAVIDSONIAN BOW
(Continued from Page one)

a pretty return to midfield. Davis gained eight yards on a short pass and the game was ended. For Davidson, Faison and Davis on the flanks played their usual stellar game, Trinity rarely attempting end runs. Martin backed up the line in fine style. The Methodists also had a pair of nifty wing men in Captain Neal and Carter. Smith, at quarter, played a great game.

The game as seen by an eyewitness: From the very start, Trinity leaped forward with an attack on the tackles and closer in that bent back the Davidson defense. The Methodists made their most impressive drive in the first few minutes. From his own 35-yard line, Smith called for a line attack that swept down to the shadow of the Davidson goal. On straight rushes through tackle, varied by a delayed attack at the same place, Trinity rushed along for four first downs. In a pinch, Smith himself could always gain through center, and Ladgerstadt, a recent find at Trinity, drove hard through the line. The attack carried to the three-yard line before Davidson could throw it back with a fine defense all along the line. Never once in this drive did Trinity runners get outside tackle. It was steady line work with little variety but the forwards were clearing the path and backs were shooting through for steady, short gains.

Following a punt and futile attempts on both sides, Davidson fumbled in midfield and Trinity again started toward the goal. Summers rose twice in the line to hurl back drives, but the Trinity backs fought their way to the 25-yard line, never once swinging wide. Then Smith changed his generalship in a flash and sent Ladgerstadt wide around right end for 19 yards to the Davidson seven-yard line, a shift in attack which worked beautifully. The quarter ended with Trinity on the verge of the touchdown. It came immediately after the second quarter started. Two rushes gained slightly and then Smith shot through a big hole which Jimmy Simpson made in the center of the line. His drive carried yards behind the goal. Simpson’s drop-kick for the extra point was blocked.

For the remainder of the period, neither team made headway. Once Brice, the Davidson center, blocked a punt, picked up the ball with a clear field ahead but juggled it around and fumbled it, with Trinity recovering in the scramble. Only one first down was made in the quarter and Trinity made that. A bad pass by Brice got Davidson into trouble early in the third quarter but the ball was recovered on her 10-yard line. Following the punt, Trinity again opened an attack. A 16-yard pass, Smith to Neal, carried to the Davidson 20-yard line, but the Wildcats fought off line plays. Smith shot another pass which players on both teams juggled in the air before Hendrix hauled it in on the five-yard line, a close play, full of excitement. Davidson punted and again Trinity was attacking. But a fumble gave the alert Hendrix his chance and he scooted 10 yards along the sidelines before he was thrown. A pass from the same Hendrix to Faison gained seven yards and Hunt and Laird hammered out small gains, with Hendrix again slipping through for eight. Davidson was showing real power now and she drove past the center of the field. A penalty against Trinity helped and then Hendrix shot a 25-yard pass to Faison to the seven-yard line. Two rushes carried it to the two-yard line as the quarter ended. With a touchdown looking certain, Trinity threw back Hunt for no gain and on the fourth chance, Captain Moore, shooting at right tackle, was lifted off his feet and thrown back. It was a great stand by Trinity.

Punts followed and Davidson tried hard with passes, but without great success. Trinity finally started from near the center of the field and again the grinding attack on the tackles drove to the 25-yard line. Time was almost up and Simpson dropped out of the line as if to pass. But again Smith had changed his tactics and Simpson threw a long pass to Neal on the goal line and the Trinity captain had only a few steps to take. Simpson’s drop-kick for the point was close but missed. The game ended soon after.

Line-up and summary:
TRINITY - DAVIDSON
Position
Neal - Faison Left End
Hatcher - Clark Left Tackle
Paylote - Davis, S. Left Guard
Simpson - Brice Center
Caldwell - Summers Right Guard
Boling - McMasters Right Tackle
Carter - Davis, C. Right End
Smith - Moore Quarter
Boswell - Shepherd Left Half
Ladgerstadt - Hunt Right Half
Johnson - Martin Fullback

Score by periods:
TRINITY 0 6 0 6
DAVIDSON 0 0 0 0

Touchdowns: Smith, Neal.
Substitutions for Trinity: Weaver for Caldwell, Brown for Ladgerstadt, Bullocks for Johnson, Everett for Boswell, Winters for Smith.
For Davidson: Hendrix for Shepherd, Laird for Martin, Martin for Laird, Shepherd for Hunt.
Referee: Major, of Clemson.
Umpire: Sampson, of St. Albans.
Headlinesman: Whitaker, of State College.
Time of quarters: 15 minutes.