4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7,

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

CAMPUSISMS

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............Editor-in-Chief
L. D. ELKINS...............First Managing Editor
W. M. HENRY...............Second Managing Editor
M. C. HENRY...............Assignment Editor
W. M. COX.................Social Editor
W. M. SMITH...............Athletic Editor
M. S. BROWN...............Literary Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD............Press Editor
W. M. COX.................Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD............Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY............Assistant Manager
Assistants:
MINTER, J. A.
RATCHFORD, B. V.
SMITH, C. F.
APPLEBY, J. M.
BARRINGTON, J. C.
McINTOSH, CLAUDE

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Business Manager:
W. J. COOPER
Assistants:
PRICE, J. H.
DAVIS, G. E.
WEEKS, W. R.
L. G. GUILLE...............Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN..........Office Assistant
E. J. ROSCH................Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN..............Circulation Manager
S. C. FAIN.................Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants:
R. B. LILES
E. C. MOOMAW
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
PRICE, J. H.
SMITH, R. H., Vice Pres.
PARKER, W. L.
SHARPE, W. L.
BROWN, G. V., Sec-Treas.
McILWAINE, C. M.
WALTHALL, D. B.
ALLISON, O. J.
McIVER, D. D.
WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M. P.
MAUZE, G. W.
WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, R. M.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
FEWELL, E. D.
MOORE, W. H.

Cold weather can’t alarm us any more. With the new heating plant completed and connected with the dormitories, our rooms are going to be more comfortable than ever. Any trouble that we may have had in keeping warm rooms will soon be forgotten under these new and desirable conditions. The large plant that has been built is quite an improvement over the old north end of the power house and should furnish heat without difficulty to the satisfaction of all.

Many thanks are due to all the boarding houses for the fine Thanksgiving dinners they served. Such repasts are always bountiful, and these were no exceptions to the rule. All enjoyed them, and particularly did they please those who spent Thanksgiving on the hill.

The mid-term reports have just recently given us a definite idea of how we are doing our work this fall. Many are perhaps disappointed in what they have done, and mean to do better. In this next month there will not be the outside distractions we have had, and all will have a good opportunity to really study, and make marks that will improve our grades for the first term.

One of the best opportunities for post-graduate study that is open anywhere is a Rhodes Scholarship. A regrettably small number of Davidson men have won these scholarships in the past, and it is with great pleasure that we learn that McDowell Richards, class of ’22, has received the North Carolina appointment for next year. Few men have graduated here who were better qualified for one of these scholarships, and we know that North Carolina and Davidson will be well represented at Oxford when “Mac” takes up his studies there next fall.

Y. M. C. A. SERVICES

RECENTLY there have been given urgent invitations to the whole student body to attend more regularly our weekly Y. M. C. A. services. While enough has been said to call this subject to our earnest consideration, it seems hard to increase the attendance as it should with the increase in size of the student body. Davidson is a church school, and this is the only religious service which distinctly belongs to the student body. The president and cabinet come from the students, and should rightly expect to be backed in their work. Interest in the Sunday service is what gives life to the work of the organization. At no time have we had better services, conducted by more capable and inspiring men. Last Sunday in particular was a good example of what is being done to have services all would like. The plan of having each class take the responsibility for one service a month should aid greatly in increasing our interest in, and attendance upon, services which in every respect merit this. Each class will have a chance just by turning out itself in full, and then by bringing everyone else, to get behind a movement that can bring up the attendance, and place it finally where it should be at 100 per cent.

A MEMORABLE OCCASION

In many ways the Senior Week which the class of ’23 has held this fall was unique. Advance plans were laid to secure the success of the affair, and the results justified fully the expectations of all. When it did seem as if everything was ready and nothing could interfere, the only element of danger, which could not be prepared for in advance and controlled, broke loose and we had rain. This, however, was unable to dampen the spirits of any and the week was featured by numerous desired attractions. Contributing more than anything else to the success that came was the Wildcat show. The actors who worked so long and faithfully to present it were highly praised, along with its author and director, to whom we owe much. No other group of actors could have put on a show like it.

Our Football Team

Well, the season is now over and we can look back over it and know that all is done. We know that there is now no comeback. We've held our last pep meeting for the 1922 Football Team. Our team seemed to play in hard luck this year. They tried their best and on several occasions displayed as good playing as has ever been seen. The main point is that though they had every reason to be discouraged after the Carolina game, they went into the Furman game with a determination to win that was hard to beat. They played in that game what seemed in many respects the best football of the whole season. There was a scrap from start to finish in that game. The Wildcats lived up to their name. Everybody that saw the game was proud of them. It is this spirit that we are proud of at Davidson. If we would cultivate it in more of our activities, there would be a change in many of us on the campus. At the end of what is considered an unsuccessful season the Wildcats emerge with claws still sharp and hair bristling even more fiercely on their backs. Hats off to the 1922 Football Team. Full o’ Pep.

Make Them Count

Fellows, it is only two weeks until we are out for Christmas. What are we going to do between now and then? If we waste our time as many of us will want to do, we will make a serious mistake. It’s a hard matter to get back to studying after a trip home. It is easy to say, “Well, it’s only two weeks, it’s no use trying to do much in that time.” You men who have been going out for football will find it hard to study now. Think it over. Then get down and bone some these next few days. Exams will be here soon after Christmas. Are we ready for them? Now’s the time to get ready. Above all things, however, if you decide not to study, don’t bother the other fellow. He's having a hard time, too. Go to it.

“Look me straight in the eyes, dearest.”
“No, you don't! I’ve had that happen to me once before.”—Exchange.

“As I was crossing the bridge the other day,” said an Irishman, “I met Pat O’Brien. ‘O’Brien,’ says I, ‘How are you?’ ‘Pretty well, thank you, Brady,’ says he. ‘Brady,’ says I, ‘that’s not my name.’ ‘Faith,’ says he, ‘and mine’s not O’Brien.’ With that we again looked at each other, and sure enough it was neither of us.”

MINSTRELS DECLARED BEST
(Continued from Page 1)

Montgomery in the rendering of “Cannibal Isle” accompanied by his fierce and ferocious mates. They are interrupted in their revels by the appearance of the ship-wrecked minstrels, whose terror on being captured by the cannibals is unbounded. But, fortunately for them, Tarzan was born ofa direct descendant of the last African generation and possesses the art of Voudou. He uses it in freeing himself and his brothers from the horrors of the black pot and through cannibals learns of their whereabouts. This scene ends with the singing by the whole gang of “Cannibal Isle.”

The fourth and longest act, including the real minstrels, was by far the outstanding feature of the whole performance. It opens with the appearance of Khediva and his master, the Sultan of Sarawak, who reproves Khediva severely for his faults in the line of amusement producing. Through Khediva, the Sultan learns of the shipwrecked minstrels and their misfortunes and he demands their presence but on being told by Khediva that he is sadly lacking in his knowledge of their whereabouts, demands the head of his Master of the Revels. Luckily for the Master, the cannibals bring word of the minstrels and soon they are presented to the Sultan, after a dance of a Scotchman and the versatile Fatima, who was the sensation of the evening, feministically speaking. The minstrels at this point enter into their performance and greatly pleased the audience with their witty cracks and splendid songs of which the outstanding was “Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean,” a parody, excellently rendered by Woolfolk and Martin.

A good deal of credit is due to Professor Erwin and Mrs. Erwin for their efforts in behalf of the performance. Mention should also be made of the very excellent lighting and scenic arrangements, due in good part to A. M. Hurd and S. C. Fain. All things considered, the performance was one of the best ever presented on the Davidson stage and was well worth seeing.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

A Winner never knocks,
A Knocker never wins,
A Winner is too busy to knock, and
A Knocker is too busy to win.—Torch.

Oh, town is town, and farm is farm, and never the twain shall join,
Till the townsman leaves his Packard and
The farmer leaves his corn;
But there is neither cash nor clothes, breeding,
Nor learning from school,
When two men are making a trade for
A gallon of strong “white mule.”—Mississippian.

Appreciation

Blessings on thee little Dame,
Bare-back girl—with knees the same.
With thy turned down silken hose,
And short transparent clothes;
With red lips, reddened more,
With the lip-stick from the store,
With thy make-up on thy face.
And thy short curl’s jaunty grace.
From my heart I give thee joy,
Thankful I was born a boy.

It is better to dwell upon the corner of the housetop than in a wide house with a saxophone player.

I'd rather be a could be
If I could not be an are,
For a could be is a may be,
With a chance of touching par.
I'd rather be a has been,
Than a might have been by far,
For a might have been has never been,
But a has been was once an are.—Sanford Chaparrel.

A Friend

There is no art in being a friend
As folks sometimes may say
It’s only a farce when one's your friend
To make your friendship pay.
A friend needs not your tactful ways
Not tritful chosen speech
He doesn’t ask to know your aims
Nor the goal you try to reach.
A friend knows all your weaknesses
He knows your doubts and fears
He knows where your worst fault is
And where your strength appears.
As a rose absorbs a ray of light
And reflects the loveliest hue
He mirrors the best that’s in your life
And shields the rest from view.—Orange and Blue.

“I am glad to have seen so much of you this summer,” said the boy as he bid the maid in the one-piece bathing suit farewell.

Stolen Goods

Cowards fight when they can fly no farther.
It is the idle man who is the miserable man,
He is most safe from danger who, even when safe, is upon his guard.
Man was made to be active and he is never so happy as when he is so.
Shun delays, they breed remorse.
Take thy time when time is lent thee.
He that is ashamed to be seen in a mean condition would be proud in a splendid one.
All other knowledge is hurtful to him who has not the science of honesty and good nature.
He who reforms himself has done more toward reforming the public than a crowd of noisy makers.
The greatest pleasure of life is love, the greatest treasure is contentment, the greatest possession is health.
A wise precept for all who build is that the owner should be an ornament to the house, and not the house to the owner.
True happiness ne'er entered at an eye.
True happiness resides in things unseen.

You think it lack of judgment that a man changes his opinion. Do you think it a proof that your scales are bad because they vibrate with every additional weight that is added to either side?—Howard Crimson.

The sun had kissed the western sky
And bid the world good night,
While in the sky the silver moon
Hung blushing at the sight.
A youth beside a maiden walked—
(I tell no wondrous deed!)
When twilight’s shadows kissed the shore,
He followed nature's lead.—Manaulite.

The restaurant patron was peeved—there were black specks on his grapefruit. But Sampo, the African diplomat, soothed him. “Why, boss, dat sho must be dem vitamines wat everyone am talkin’ ’bout.”—Orange and Blue.

“I’ll show them,” said the hen as she kicked the porcelain egg out of the nest, “they can’t make a bricklayer out of me.”—Exchange.

She—I wonder what Sir Walter Raleigh said to the Queen when he put his coat down for her?
He—Probably, “Step on it, Kid.”—Carnegie Tech Puppet.

Willie—Wish I had a million.
Cillie—If you don’t quit scratching, I’ll believe you have.—Octopus.

Hotel Clerk—And do you wish a room and private bath?
Patron—Only kind I care to take.—Cincy News.

She—How dare you! Papa said he would kill the first man who kissed me.
He—How interesting. And did he?—The Rollins Sandspur.

Thanksgiving Day at Davidson was celebrated by cutting off the heat in the dormitories. The following anecdote of Thanksgiving was told by one of the Seniors who spent the day on the hill:

“They pressed slowly forward in the dreary coldness of the night. The bleak white expanse was all around them. The cold whiteness pressed down upon them from above, it glared at them from below. They hugged each other, trying in vain each to get warmth from the other. Finally they stopped half frozen, it seemed as though they could go no further. At last they mustered up courage enough to go a few steps more, but they could go no further. I could not persuade myself to push my feet any further down into the icy coldness of the bed.”

Some of those who spent the holidays at home were: R. P. Alexander, Rube Curdts, Johnnie Smith, Wiggs Bradford, Jack Austin, Walter Scott, P. C. Henderson, Ted Koenig, Paul Guthery, W. G. Thomas, John Simpson and Morgan Spier.

A few of those enjoying Mrs. Robson's hospitality at the infirmary were: Bascom Sorrells, Speck McConnell, Liston Elkins, Pat Crawford, Brad Forbes, Walker, A. D. Cromartie, Ben Team, Phipps, J. M. Garrison, O'Connor, Williford, McColl and Okey Allison.

Carrol Overton, Henry Myers and Beauty Jackson were weekend visitors on the hill.

The management of the movies has shown itself to be very efficient in procuring pictures. Fourteen shows have been run so far, and all of them were good. Three of this number were run last week. Don’t fail to see “Clarence.”

The marshals serving at the minstrels were as follows: L. P. Burney, chief; John Grey, Arnett Gamble, Randolph Jones, Layton Frazer and R. L. Price.

D. OGDEN AND GAMBLE CHOSEN
(Continued from Page 1)

of the leading spirits of the new Pandemic Society and has just retired from its presidency. Ogden has served on an inter-collegiate debating team for one year. He is well known for his logical argument, the clear presentation of his material, and the range of voice. He has won many medals in all branches of literary society work from his Freshman year to the present. Wharton has displayed his ability in being chosen as an alternate after only one year of college literary society work. He will have charge of the details of the trip to Virginia.