4 < THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1922.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

P. PRICE Forum Editor
M. i Campus Editor
Managing Editor
S. CURRY Campus Editor
W. i Managing Editor
C. BAILEY, JR. Y. M.C. A. Editor
R. E. Assignment Editor
SPRUNT Social Editor
A.C. Athletic Editor
H. OGDEN Literary Editor
A. Alumni Editor
W. J. COOPER Press Editor
KEITHEN Exchange Editor

CLUB MAUZE, G. W., V.-Pres.
REPORTERS:
BITZER, R., Pres.
FEWELL, ED.
BRADFORD, W. Z.
GRACY, J. S.
MOORE, W. H.
ESTON, W. M.
MORRIS, H. M., Sec.-Treas.
BROWN, W. YE
JONES, W. R.
SMITH, R. i.
TULLER, C. D.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WILDMAN, A. C.
WILDMAN, C. F.
BROWN, W. P.
CALHOUN, M. P.
ELRING
ELLIOTT, W. T.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT:
J. C. WOOL Business Manager
E. T. WOOLFOLK and W. S. SHEPARD Asst. Business Managers
L. A. TAYLOR, CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT:
CIRCULATION MANAGER
TULLER
S. C. FAIN
B. C. HENDERSON
Asst. Circulation Managers
WATT McCAIN
R. L. PRICE

Patronize our Advertisers, for they make the paper possible.

EDITORIAL

Three games in a row is a hard start for any team, but Coach Hengeveld’s charges are ready for the
fray. Here’s looking at you, Wildcats!

The weather man reports that the surplus rainfall for this year already amounts to six inches. We are expecting Junior
Speaking to run the total up to at least ten.

“When you think you've about reached the end of your rope just tie a knot and hold on.”

JUNIOR SPEAKING.

The time has come at last. That fateful hour in the life of every Junior Class is about to sound
for all those who boast the proud numerals of 1923. From tomorrow afternoon until Monday the life of the college
is to be turned from its regular channels, and the campus will be overwhelmed with a downpour of oratory, fair
visitors, and, it is to be feared, rain. In other words, Junior Speaking is to be celebrated once more.

All this is, of course, no news to the student body. We have all known of the coming event for
weeks past and some have taken an active interest in plans for the occasion, but for the most part we
have assumed an attitude of indifference to the whole affair. It is perhaps not out of order, therefore, to call
attention here to one or two facts.

The Junior Class has worked faithfully and well to make their speaking a success. No pains have been spared to
furnish places for all the visitors, and to provide them with suitable means of entertainment while here. In fact, just
about everything possible has been done to afford an enjoyable occasion for all. These efforts will all prove of no
avail, however, if the other students do not co-operate. Why not help the Juniors make this the best speaking ever
by attending all the public exercises and entertainments which will go to make up this Junior Speaking? Fair play demands
that we do no less.

SHALL WE LOSE THIS TOO?

The present school year has marked the passing of the chief glory of Davidson’s campus, the historic Chambers building. The
loss of this stately edifice has worked an injury to the appearance of the college which must be seen to
be realized, but our campus is still a beautiful place and by proper care can be made still more beautiful.
Unless more is done to protect our grass, however, it will not be long until we lose another one of
the things so dear to the heart of all Davidson men.

A few years ago Davidson had one of the most beautiful lawns in the South. Today this can hardly be
asserted as the fact, and one cannot but fear what may be the case tomorrow. The beauty of the campus
has already been seriously marred by the paths which students have worn in taking short cuts. Rather than go to
the trouble of walking a few extra yards they have deliberately cut new paths across the grass, and even today
the process of widening old paths and of cutting new ones goes on. But this is not the only damage
which is being done. The R. O. T. C. Battalion is gradually wearing away the grass of the front campus,
and great, almost bare patches are to be noticed here and there where drill or mass games have been especially
long continued. If the lawn continues to be used as a drill ground Davidson will soon have only an expanse
of bare earth instead of a carpet of green to lend beauty to her buildings.

Something should be done, and done at once to remedy this condition. We believe that a new and better drill
ground should be provided for the R. O. T. C. at the earliest possible moment, for the present arrangement works
to the disadvantage of both the college and the battalion. The matter of cutting paths can be much more easily
handled and we believe that the students themselves should take some action to stop this practice. Unless something is done
soon there will be no grass to save.

Open Forum

CONSIDERATION.

We are altogether dependent on the ladies of the town to take care of our girl friends at the time
of the social functions, to place them in rooms, and that owing to the restricted hotel accommodations we simply could
not have girl friends here overnight if it were not for the town ladies. But is it fair to impose
on the accommodation of our beneficiaries in asking them to fix up a room and then, long after the girl
had refused to come a day or two after you had asked for a room? Or is it doing the
fair thing to go in and sit in the sitting room when you take your friend home at midnight or
later? This last practice is not only not agreeable to the other people living in the house but the average
householder in Davidson does not think it is the proper thing to do. The fraternity halls and the Social Center
at the Gym are the places at the homes in which our girl friends are staying, and we certainly should
not one of us who happen to have late dates, and for the sake of those who are so kind
to us we ought to cooperate with them instead of doing things that are obviously disagreeable to them.

BACK THEM UP.

Once more, or rather for the first time—to hear some speak—Junior Speaking is coming into its own. Last year, this
year’s Seniors put across an occasion that was certainly, to say the least, classy, and this year’s Junior class claims
that they are going to put over a still better one. But there is a way in which the speaking
fell down last year and will fall down this year unless present predictions fail. And that is in the attendance
on the speaking exercises themselves. The 16 men who speak are a chosen bunch, they are men who have well
worked out speeches and have the ability to deliver them well, so the persons who go to hear them will
certainly have a treat in store for themselves. But there is this other side to it. Since this is Junior
Speaking, it is only right that we should back the class to the last man, and the men in the
class who have thought over the matter want and are asking that everybody come out to these two occasions. Of
course, it has been the custom around here for the speakers to have an audience composed of the judges and
a few personal friends of the speakers. But what do we care for precedent; it has been broken too.Many times
around here lately for it to stand in our way if there is something better in view. So the thing
for every one of us to do is to come out to these two sessions of speaking, one Saturday morning
and the other that night, and show the speakers that we can appreciate good speaking as well as we can
good acting and other good amusement.

THE CALL OF THE WILD

About this time of year there is a certain feeling in every fellow that makes him feel like he ought
to stay out of doors all the time. It is the same call that came to our wild ancestors when
they roamed the woods and lived in caves—the call of the wild. But there is so much to do around
here that very few of the fellows take enough time off to really enjoy this wonderful change in Nature that
is going on now—and aren't we losing a lot by it? Is there anything that makes a man feel more
like a new man, that makes a fellow feel closer to nature and to God, than to take a walk
in the changing, awakening out-of-doors and see all that is going on there? These afternoons are great, these nights are
wonderful and each one of the fellows on the campus certainly owes it to himself to take time enough to
enjoy them by getting out of their rooms for a little while at least each day.

Fellows, we all recognize that we are after speaking is over to tell them we are sorry not to have
told them long ago we should use as sitting rooms in the late evenings, and not the sitting rooms impose
on the hostess after midnight when most people want to sleep. This is an individual duty that rests on each
of us.

With Other Colleges

PHI BETA CHI INITIATES AT QUEENS

Charlotte, N. C., March 22—The Phi Beta Chi Science Club held its initiation on last Saturday evening. After the initiation,
a banquet was given by the members to the honorary members from the faculty, the new members, and several prominent
physicians from Charlotte, who have given several lectures to the Science classes during the year. The banquet was given at
the Guthery apartments.

BLAND ROBERTS ADDRESSES QUEENS STUDENTS

Charlotte, March 22.—Bland Roberts, traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, addressed the student body of Queens College, March 9th.
While at the college he was the guest of the Volunteer Band and the delegation to the Greensboro Conference.

ODDS AND ENDS

Meredith—Elections for 1922-23 are now taking place at Meredith. Louise Mays has been elected president of the Student Government Association;
Winifred May Rowland, of the Athletic Association; and Elizabeth Kendrick, of the committee of judges.

Lenoir—Monday night at 8 o’clock, in the college auditorium, Edward Abner Thompson, the blind reader, gave a very skillful interpretation
of Shakespeare's famous tragedy, Hamlet.

Appropriately designed gold, silver, and bronze medals will be awarded for first, second, and third places in the contest, while
every writer getting his editorial sent to the judges will receive a certificate of honorable mention. The editorials must not
exceed 500 words and are to be typewritten on one side of regular plain letter-size sheets. Each college or university
will be permitted to send one editorial to the committee, a local contest closing April 3rd, with three faculty members
acting as judges, picking the winner, whose editorial will then be entered in the south-wide contest at the prescribed time.

Scheme of Identity

In order to save embarrassment on the part of the local and Southern committees, assumed names are required on the
upper right-hand corner of the editorials and that same assumed name is required on a plain sealed envelope, in which
the proper name, address, school, and home of the writer will be contained. The editorial, with this envelope attached, will
first be given to the local committee, and still sealed, sent to the general committee chairman. Awards in this contest
will be made at the annual convention of the association, to be held the latter part of April at a
place yet to be selected. Officers of the association are: President, Chas. F. Leek, University of Richmond, Va.; vice-presidents, M.
I. Deitch, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tenn., for Tennessee, Kentucky, Mississippi, Alabama, and Louisiana; Bowie Millican, Emory University, Ga., for
North Carolina, South Carolina, Florida, and Georgia; Miss Burkella Wells, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College, Lynchburg, Va., for Maryland, Delaware, District of
Columbia, West Virginia, and Virginia; and secretary-treasurer, R. E. Garst, University of Richmond, Va.

Read the Exchanges in the “Y” Room.

LIST OF DAVIDSONIAN EXCHANGES (May Be Found in Gym.)

1. The Wildcat, Alexandria, La.
2. The Mississippian, Univ. Miss.
3. The Carolinian, N. C. C. W., Greensboro, N. C.
4. The Student Life, Claremont, Calif.
5. Arizona Wildcat, U. of Ariz., Tucson, Ariz.
6. The Mercer Cluster, M. Univ., Macon, Ga.
7. The Toya, Georgetown Univ., Washington, D. C.
8. Rollins Sandspur, Southern Col.
9. The Emory Wheel, Emory U., Ga.
10. The Guilfordian, Guilford Col., N. C.
11. The Howard Crimson, H. Col., Birmingham, Ala.
12. Davenport Weekly Record, Lenoir, N.C.
13. The Rotunda, Farmville, Va.
14. The Tar Heel, Chapel Hill, N. C.
15. The Wm. Jewell Student, Liberty, Missouri
16. The Ring Tum Phi, W. & L., Lexington, Va.
17. The Anchor, Hope Col., Holland, Mich.
18. The Red and Black, Univ. of Ga., Athens, Ga.
19. The Va. Tech, V. P. I.
20. The White Topper, Emory & Henry Col., Emory, Va.
21. Queens Blues, Queens College, Charlotte, N.C.
22. The Berry News, Mt. Berry, Ga.
23. The Cornet, G. H. S., Gainesville, Fla.
24. The Spectator, Ag. Col., Columbus, Miss.
25. Vanderbilt Hustler, V. Univ., Nashville, Tenn.
26. The Blue & Gray, Frederick, Md.
27. The Technique, Ga. School of Technology, Atlanta, Ga.
28. The Richmond Collegian, R. Col., Richmond, Va.
29. The Crimson & White, Univ. of Ala.
30. The Lenorian, Hickory, N. C.
31. U. of R., Redlands Univ., Redlands, Calif.
32. The Targum, Rutgers College, New Brunswick, N. J.
33. The Lawrentian, Lawrence Col., Appleton, Wis.
34. The R. M. A. Sabre, Front Royal, Va.
35. The Baylor Lariat, Waco, Tex.
36. The Critagraph, Lynchburg, Va.
37. The Cadet, V. M. I., Lexington, Va.
38. The Twig, Meredith Col., Raleigh, N. C.
39. The Sun Dial, R. M. Woman’s Col., Lynchburg, Va.
40. Old Gold and Black, Wake Forest, N.C.
41. High Life, G. H. S., Greensboro, N.C.
42. The College Reflector, Miss. Ag. Col.
43. The Piedmont Owl, Demorest, Ga.
44. The Student Life, Pomona Col., Claremont, Calif.
45. The Winthrop Col. News, Rock Hill, S.C.
46. The Lafayette Weekly, Lafayette Col., Easton, Pa.
47. The Advocate, Alex. Graham High School, Charlotte, N. C.
48. The Sou'Wester, Clarksville, Tenn.
49. The Sewanee Purple, Univ. of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.
50. The Purple and White, Millsaps Col., Jackson, Miss.
51. The Gamecock, Univ. of S. C., Columbia, S. C.
52. The Salemite, Salem Col., Winston-Salem, N.C.
53. The Blue Stocking, Pres. Col. of S. C., Clinton, S. C.
54. G. H. S. Comet, Gainesville, Fla.
55. The Mississippi Hts. Review, Blue Mt., Miss.
56. The Maroon and Gold, Elon College, N. C.

Any Davidson students desiring to compete in this contest may hand their editorials to J. M. Richards, on or before
the third day of April.
