THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1922

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

GUY E. WEEKS OF DAVIDSON STUDENT VOLUNTEER LEADER

Once more the honor has come to a Davidson student to hold the office of president of the North Carolina
Volunteer Union. At the recent conference at Greensboro, Guy E. Weeks, of the class of '23, was elected to that
important and influential position. This is not only an honor to Guy, but through him an honor to the college
also. As president he will not only head up all the work of the volunteers in the State but will
also represent the Union at the meeting of the Volunteer Student Council to be held in New York next February.
The job has plenty of hard work with it and there will be plenty to keep the hands of President
Weeks busy.

VISITING GIRLS TO SPEAK AT “Y” SERVICE ON SUNDAY

The Y. M. C. A. at its regular meeting Sunday night will be addressed by the Volunteer girls on the
Hill for Junior speaking. During Junior week the Y. M. C. A. program committee will be busy finding out which
of the visitors were attendants at the Greensboro Volunteer Convention a few weeks ago, and will arrange a program of
short speeches for the vesper service. In addition to their speeches, the young ladies will treat those present to a
number of vocal selections. The “Y” workers of Davidson will furnish special instrumental music. It is planned that this “Y”
service be made one of the best of the year, in keeping with the Junior week program.

“Y” CONDUCTS CAMPAIGN AT THE LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL

Although the Y. M. C. A. has sent out men on deputations to other schools, the local High School was
visited for the first time last week. The first period of Thursday, Friday, and Saturday at the High School was
given to the “Y” men of the college. On Thursday morning, Pat Crawford and Doc LaFar spoke. Pat spoke on
the value of clean living, mentally, physically, and spiritually. He used for his example, Jesus Christ. Christ was in every
particular a perfect man. Although He is pictured as being effeminate, Jesus Christ was a man of tremendous power, physically,
mentally, and spiritually. Pat brought out the bad effects of using tobacco and alcoholic drinks. Doc LaFar then spoke on
“Clean Athletics.” Doc brought out three points to be observed in contests; namely, fight clean, fight hard, and play to
win. The record of Centre College was used as an illustration, where the above points brought success.

On Friday morning, Tink Taylor and Dunbar Ogden were the speakers. Tink spoke on “Friendship.” He pleaded against snobbishness. He
urged that friendship include everybody. Christ, who met with all classes of people, was a true friend to them all.
Ogden spoke on “Scholarship.” He presented the records of several characters, comparing, mainly, Dempsey and Edison. He showed the importance
of observing the four levels of consciousness; namely, knowledge of God, moral control, mental control, and physical control.

On Saturday morning, Rev. Mr. Foster, of the local Methodist Church, and Dwight Chalmers made the concluding talks. Mr. Foster
spoke on the Christian spirit of fight. Every worthy goal must be reached after a hard-fought battle. The Christian has
the highest goal to be reached. He must, therefore, continue to keep Christ as his guide and leader. The only
reasonable thing to do is to fight the Christian fight. Dwight Chalmers spoke on the subject, “How to Live a
Clean Life.” The two main factors in clean living are self-control and service. Even as the Rock of Gibraltar rose
from a dirty little town and became famous the world over, so anyone can attain a life of cleanliness and
purity through following Christ as a leader.

DR. GOHEEN TALKS TO VOLUNTEERS ON FRIENDSHIP

Dr. Goheen, a medical missionary to India, addressed the Student Volunteers last Sunday morning on the subject of “Friendship.” A
man cannot be of service to the world unless he is willing to give up his life to his fellow
men, the speaker said. He showed that Christ was a perfect example of a gentleman and a friend. Dr. Goheen
asked why Christ gave up so much for His fellowmen, and said the only answer was love. That is the
same answer that the missionaries give when asked why they are so anxious to get back to the foreign field.
Friendship cannot be obtained through selfishness, which is the father of all sin, but only through generosity, which is the
mother of all virtue. Dr. Goheen told some vivid stories about the people of India. The girls used to be
married in infancy, but the British Government has stepped in and put a stop to this demoralizing custom. But, sad
to relate, many of them, while yet in infancy, are dedicated by their parents to the temples and public shrines
where they are used as prostitutes. Their entire life is spent there, and it is almost impossible to escape once
dedicated to these heathen gods. Dr. Goheen closed his talk by making a plea for more of the strong, sturdy,
young Americans, such as those at Davidson, to be willing to cast themselves in a foreign land in service to
their fellowmen. They may not become famous and world-renowned, but their works and deeds will ever live in the hearts
of those who would not have known Christ had it not been for the missionaries.

MINISTERIAL STUDENTS ARE TOLD OF NEED OF MISSIONS

Last Sunday afternoon the Ministerial Band was favored by a talk from Dr. Robert H. H. Goheen. In a very
interesting manner, Doctor Goheen told of the many problems confronting the missionary in India today. Doctor Goheen showed how the
medical missionary and evangelist worked together in bringing the people to Christ. Entrances to villages were sometimes won through the
hospital, after the evangelist had failed. Although in some instances the medical missionary can be of great service to the
evangelist, he is unable to take his place, Doctor Goheen said. Medical work, he said, must be kept up.As a
demonstration of Christianity, the evangelistic missionary must be an all-around man, said Doctor Goheen. Often he is confronted by civil
problems which necessitate his being a farmer, banker, merchant, and what-not at times. As an illustration, he gave an example
of how the evangelists were helping the masses of people out of indebtedness with the “co-operative credit system.” In closing
his talk, Doctor Goheen brought out the striking effects of Christianity. He contrasted the Catholic and Hindu religions. The Hindu,
who does not believe anything pertaining to Christ, is very treacherous and ungrateful, while the Catholic, with only a limited
knowledge of Christ, is very grateful and thankful. This shows what Christianity will do for a people.

The nature of a human being is like a finely cut diamond—it reflects a multitude of color flashes as the
light of other personalities is played upon it. Through the warm glow of brotherly love in your own nature, you
draw out the most delicate rays of kindness, respect, and admiration in others—while a somber flame of hatred, jealousy, or
revenge in your heart will cause flashes of resentment, suspicion, and doubt in those you meet.

EAGLE “MIKADO” Pencil No. 174
For Sale at your Dealer
Made in five grades
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK

LOUISVILLE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Scholarly Spiritual Practical Progressive
Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill. Located in the heart of the
chief city of the South. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry in the Twentieth Century.
Write to JOHN M. VANDER MULEN, D. D., LL. D., President

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Central Hotel Cigar Stand
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

MRS. FRANCESKA LAWSON
(Continued from page 1)
Mrs. Franceska Lawson, a visitor from Montagnin, Heetear, is head of a large music school in the same city. Mrs.
Lawson studied three years in Paris, while her brother studied abroad for nine years. An uncle on her mother's side
was Court Organist to the Grand Duke of Hesse-Darmstadt. It was at this court that the late Czar of Russia
wooed and won his bride. It is also of interest to know that her grandfather was first clarinetist in the
Peabody Symphony Orchestra in Baltimore, at the same time that Sidney Lanier was first flutist. Mrs. Lawson's husband is Dr.
H. W. Lawson, physician and surgeon of Washington, D.C., Fellow of the American College of Surgeons, and Professor in the
George Washington University Medical School. Mrs. Lawson pleased a large audience upon her first appearance here, and it is the
wish of all who heard her that she may return next season with such an entertaining program as she so
capably presented this time.

PAT. CRAWFORD ELECTED
(Continued from page 1)
The place of the old officers and without a doubt they will be great leaders and do great work among
the student body.

PRESENT IRISH QUESTION IS DEBATED BY THE PANDEMIC
At the regular meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society on March 16th, an interesting discussion was held on the question:
Resolved, That the present agreement of England with Ireland is better than total independence. C. M. S. McIlwaine and J.
H. Davis on the affirmative were opposed by G. M. Ford and O. J. Allison on the negative. An interesting
discussion followed as to whether the present Irish Free State is a better solution of the Irish problem than complete
Irish independence. The house gave its decision in favor of the affirmative.

D. R. LaFar delivered an oration on “Are the Chances of Making a Living in the World Growing Fewer.” He
showed the many opportunities open to all in agriculture, forestry, and different industries, and the great work to be done
in developing the tropics. Walthall gave an interesting declamation, “The Race Problem,” by Henry W. Grady. W. W. Moore then
reviewed, in an enjoyable talk, the topics of interest all over the world.

One of the regular features of the society is an extemporaneous oration or debate. A. P. Hudgins, H. W. Alexander,
and James Sprunt each delivered a two-minute speech. P. D. Miller, a member and ex-president of the Eu Society, was
a visitor of the evening and wished the society success in a few well-chosen words. The president made an announcement
concerning the Peace Contest to be held at Burlington on April 21st.

It Wakes You Up
Visit Our Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents for Nunnally, Hollingsworth, and Mary Garden Candies
Delicious and Refreshing
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works
