THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922.

Hard lines. He dropped a Weighty Remark; it landed on the floor and cracked. He picked up the Drift; and it froze his hands. He cast an Endearing Glance; it rebounded and bowled him over. He Caught his Breath, strangled it and threw it to one side. He Grabbed a Chance, but it hit him and he died of infection. If you don’t believe it, here it is in print: “One dozen of eskimo pies are equal to 10 pounds of tomatoes.”—News Item.

Since science has discovered that one dozen eskimo pies is of equal value with 10 pounds of tomatoes, our own mathematical department rushes forward with additional figures to complete the equation. Eight pounds of beef steak have been proved to equal 6 1/4 pairs of low shoes, if placed one upon the other. A ton and a half of celery if packed in old crates will equal two Davidson Thanksgiving turkeys and a dash of spaghetti. A gross of eggplant if properly packed will equal one cold storage emporium. As a final triumph of equivalents, it has been found if 5 pounds of sausage be carefully rolled and kept in thermos bottles that it will equal almost exactly two car loads of Pink River salmons in gold cans in Spokane.

Automobile News. Sixty miles an hour. Bad curves. Private service. No flowers.

Historical Essay. Don’t study, Never could; Passed three hours! Home for good!

“Pretty soft,” said Snag Bailey, as he scratched his head.

Social Lions’ Aid. A chaperone is a useless functionary which accompanies young people in public—but that is as far as it goes. The hostess is one who hires a ballroom, rents an orchestra and prepares to shake hands with the “Two hundred” and the invited guests. A circular stairway is one round of pleasure after another. Love is like a punctured tire, I’m very sure of that; For after one big blowout, She went and left me flat.

Absence makes the student ponder.

Mr. Rosenthal and his little son were taking in the carnival when a large side show caught the eye of little Ikey. “Fader!” he cried, “giff me a nickel to go and see the sea serpent.” “Vasteful poy!” exclaimed his parent, “vanting to pay a nickel to see a sea serpent! Here’s a magnifying glass; go and find a vurm.”

All freshmen and sophomores desiring to know the chemical reaction of concentrated H2SO4 and H2O, apply to Flop Beaver.

“If you won't take a bath I'll faucet,” said the water. “Soap Not,” answered the tub.

The Eternal Cycle. They've put on prohibition, and are doing all they can to get our pipes and the cigarettes. Pretty soon they'll abolish dancing, and of course kissing in all its forms will go. The next step will be the abolition of soda water and hot dogs, with a limited amount of sandwiches and sundaes left. A doctor’s prescription, however, will be required to secure any of the above articles. It will be impossible to speak to a young lady on a public highway unless she has your pedigree and it’s accompanied by two or more chaperones. Marriage will be so regulated that it will be easier to get out of prison than to get into wedlock, and then—some prohibition officer will discover that the juice of an apple or peach, if allowed to pass through a certain stage, will produce a beverage that bears resemblance to the fluid given forth by the mythical fountain of youth. After that it will all begin over again. Let’s all hope for an early beginning then.

The door at the end of the hall in the library building bore this notice: “Please do not call meetings here. Signed: GETTYS GUILLE.”

The student body is cordially invited to attend an Easter Egg Hunt which will be indulged in Saturday afternoon on our verdant campus. It will be im-

TOWN NEWS. Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Adams, of Charlotte, were guests of Prof. and Mrs. Erwin over Sunday. Dr. Fraser Hood spoke in Taylorsville Church last Sunday, filling the pulpit of Dr. L. L. Moore, ’89. The Presbyterian Sunday School held its anniversary exercises last Sunday evening. Promotions were made in different departments. William Wood, Jr.,and Charles Shumake were baptized at this service. At a recent meeting of the Concord Presbyterial, our librarian, Miss Shaw, was unanimously elected secretary of that body. Miss Ellenwood entertained Wednesday night in honor of Miss Calhoun, of Cornwall, Conn. Mr. Lyke, of Niagara Falls, N. Y., is the guest of Prof. and Mrs. L. M. Currie. Dr. Thos. W. Lingle filled the pulpit in Gastonia last Sunday.

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
By Thien Shaw Milne.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and a no less prominent junior; in matters of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act I—A FLAPPER’S CRIME
Scene: A room, third floor Georgia, back.
The time: 10:50 a.m.

Lennox (looking up hastily from a letter that he has been reading): Shades of Noah and may the Holy Pink-Toed Prophet quail in his tracks.
Carroll (the while continues to absorb history from a blue-bound book of generous proportions): Your command of the prophets would indicate that you found Fresh Bible a crip.
L. (with agitation): Would the patience of Job and the wisdom of Solomon were mine—Mary spills all the beans in this.
C. (closing his book): Not the Queen’s Mary?
L. (moodily): Even so. Methinks that 11:50, Friend o’mine, Servant of the South, meetin’ you again.
A few minutes—L. searches desperately, but in vain, for raiment to cover his lengthy frame.
C.: Where’re your duds?
L.: Don’t possess many—most of what I have are in Helper’s time vaults—only one clean shirt.
C.: Well, if you need shirts I'll say you can get ’em in Charlotte. Remember Mellon’s ad in last week’s Davidsonian?
L.: Sure thing, they say he has the best stock South.
C.: Remember those tan silk poplins, with and without collars? Just the stuff for you ol’ tea-hound, after you match ’em up with one of those new Van Heusen collars, they’re quite the stuff. Personally though, those white madras and airplanes are more to my taste. And say, while you are in there take a look at their Hart, Schaffner and Marx and Hickey-Freeman clothes for me, I'll be needing an Easter suit ere long.—(Adv.)

(Continued next week)

DOCTOR GOHEEN KINDLY REMEMBERS LOCAL VISIT
In a letter to Dwight Chalmers, from Lattimore, Md., Doctor Robert H. Goheen, prominent missionary from India, who visited Davidson three weeks ago, said: “As I am about to leave the South for New England, I cannot go without snatching a moment to say what very pleasant memories remain and will ever remain of my visit to Davidson. Long may she live and gloriously! With considerable pride have I been able to say in other colleges that I have visited, Davidson for Davidson’s fame and influence I have found to be far-flung.”

ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville PROGRAM
Thurs., Fri., Sat., April 13th, 14th, 15th.
B. F. OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS AND “SNUB” POLLARD
Johnny Small and Sisters
A Trio of Singers and Dancers
“Slim” Grindell & Coryl Esther in “A Study in Thinology”
Mae Melville and Geo. Rule “The League of Servants”
GEORGE MORTON “The Black Dot”
THE THREE LORDONS Daring Bombs of Comedy and Thrills.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

Meal hours:
Miss Janie Matthews
New Central Hotel

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor, peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices
Miss Lottie Hart
Second Floor

COLLEGE JEWELRY
EVERSHARP PENCILS, PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS, STATIONERY
PENNANTS AND PILLOWS
ATHLETIC SUPPLIES
BRADLEY SWEATERS
W.S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Peppermint flavored chewing gum with Peppermint Sugar Jacket
Your Sugar Jacket “melts in your mouth”

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.