540 Men in Charlotte

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Senior Week Approaches

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 16, 1922 No. 9

MR. HAMILTON HOLT SPEAKS AS FEATURE EVENT ON DAVIDSON-ARMISTICE DAY BILL

Noted Journalist and Diplomat Addresses Assemblage of Students

Doctor Martin Speaks—Honor Paid to Alumni Dead

By MR. F. L. JACKSON

Last Saturday Davidson fitly celebrated Armistice Day and Davidson Day in one. The earlier part of the day was given
over to the remembrance of the signing of the first step toward peace in the world war. At 11 o'clock,
or thereabout, something like a hundred of Davidson's 500 students left for Charlotte to see the Wildcats celebrate Davidson Day
in a stampede over Wofford. Through the generosity of the faculty, a holiday was granted. The only assembly at which
attendance was required was chapel, at 9:30. Combined, however, with chapel, were the Armistice Day and Davidson Day services, so
that the holiday was practically complete, so far as the classmen were concerned.

Doctor Richards opened the services with a Scripture reading and prayer. Doctor Martin then turned the meeting over to Dr.
T. H. Lingle, who, as chairman of the platform committee, had charge of the services. After explaining in a few
words the origin and meaning of the day, he called upon Doctor Martin, head of the administrative offices of the
college, to give a brief summary of Davidson's advance to the present day, and of the outlook for her future.
Giving a brief resume of her history, Doctor Martin showed the wonderful growth she has had continually since the day
of her founding. Starting with about half a hundred students, in 1837, she grew till today she has 540 within
her walls, and was forced to turn away many an anxious seeker after knowledge. In spite of this growth she
has adhered strictly to the fundamentals of her founders, and is today a Christian college, with the spirit of a
Wildcat, known the world over. The outlook, Doctor Martin continued, is brighter than ever before, and things are “panning out”
better than in our dreams. The fulfillment of that future, however, depends upon those who now constitute Davidson, in administration,
faculty and student body, and it is up to them to see that Davidson makes good.

As it is the custom on Davidson Day to give a brief biography of those who once called Davidson Alma
Mater, but who have crossed the Great Divide in the past year, Doctor Lingle called upon Mr. Jackson for this
little memorial. After this came the chief speaker of the morning, introduced by Doctor Lingle as probably the most distinguished
American who has ever spoken at Davidson. Doctor Hamilton Holt, by profession a journalist, and by nature one of the
most pleasing and interesting personalities who has ever been here, took the floor and in his quiet, smooth way, began
to tell of his trip to the war fronts during the latter part of the war, and of America’s part
in that war, and her duty to her allies now. Having been one of those who took part in the
formulation of the League of Nations covenant, and being an intimate friend of Woodrow Wilson, he was thoroughly competent to
discuss the international conditions of today, so far as the U. S. is concerned. Mr. Holt began by saying that
he was going to tell three stories instead of making a regular speech. The first of these stories showed the
young men of America when America entered the great war; the second, the old men at the discussion which preceded
the formation of a new world when the war was over, and the third, the spirit of po (Continued on
Page 5)

FOUR IN A ROW

In a statement to a Davidsonian representative, President Martin made public the recent action of the faculty in granting Thursday,
Friday and Saturday of Thanksgiving week, as a full-fledged, honest-to-goodness holiday.

SMITH UNIVERSITY QUINTET SINGS SONGS AT “Y” SERIES

Noted Colored Singers Give Many Religious Selections

The quintet from the Johnson C. Smith University rendered an impressive program at the Y. M. C. A. Vesper service
Sunday evening. This institution has been known as Biddle University until recently when it was renamed in honor of the
donor of a large gift. The quintet that visited Davidson is well known among musical circles, having made records for
the Pathe Company, these selections including Ezekiel Saw the Wheel, and Heaven. These two selections formed part of the program
of the evening.

Before the quintet took charge of the program, Ted Jones led the student body in two songs and John Bailey
led in prayer. Doctor Arbuckle introduced the visitors who were to have charge of the evening's program, saying, in part,
“The interest which Davidson College has in this institution for the education of the colored race, and in the Christian
University from which the quintet comes, has caused Davidson to extend the invitation to this company to visit the campus
at this time.” Doctor Arbuckle also called attention to the fact that the leader of the quintet, J. R. Harris,
was a ministerial candidate, preparing himself to take to the people of his race the story of the unsearchable riches
of God.

Following the introduction, J. R. Harris said a few words in regard to the folksongs of his race. He said
that while many of their songs were of a light nature, many of them were deeply religious. The quintet rendered
two selections, I Want to be a Christian in my Heart, and Couldn’t Hear Nobody Pray, which gripped the attention
of the entire audience. Pat Crawford led in the reading of the Scripture lesson for the evening, after which the
Smith quintet was given charge of the evening’s program.

Ezekiel Saw the Wheel, one of the selections made by this company for the Pathe Company, was the next rendition.
This was followed by Ain't Gonna Study War No More, a semi-humorous folk-song which was highly enjoyable. Following these selections,
Crossing the Bar, a deeply religious hymn, was sung. After singing Little David Play on Your Harp, another religious folk-song,
the meeting was dismissed with prayer by Doctor Arbuckle.

But the crowd was not through. The meeting was not over. Before the singers could leave the hall, they had
been surrounded, and upon request rendered Swing Low, Sweet Chariot, and Heaven, to the delight of the entire audience. Those
composing the quintet from the Smith University are: W. R. Harris, director, second bass; W. H. Richardson, first bass; W.
L. McNair, first tenor; W. J. Tate, second tenor; and J. R. Harris, baritone.

WILDCAT MINSTRELS TO BE FEATURE OF SENIOR WEEK

A Varied Program Assures Entertainment for All Visitors

The annual gala event known as Senior Speaking, will take place in Shearer Hall Saturday morning, December 2nd, at 10
a.m. The speakers of the morning have as yet not been chosen, however there will be two men from each
literary society, selected either by election or by preliminary speeches. Saturday afternoon the regular Senior Class exercises will be held
including the donning of derbies by all the class members. In assuming this mark of distinction the Senior class is
following the example set last year by the class of '22, who bore canes from Senior Week until commencement. The
distinctive derbies are indeed a mark. The Senior exercises will be followed by an informal reception by the class to
the student body, faculty and visitors.

A tentative program for the four days is as follows:
Thursday—Furman game,
Friday evening—Movies—"The Rajah.”
Saturday morning—Senior speeches.
Saturday afternoon—Senior exercises and reception,
Saturday evening—The Wildcat Minstrels.
Sunday morning—Church,
Sunday evening—Special Senior class Y. M. C. A. service.

A definite program arranged by the Senior class will appear at an early date but as yet has not been
completed. A movie will probably appear on Wednesday evening of Senior Week as well.As Friday. The show Friday will be
“The Young Rajah,” featuring Rudolph Valentino. It is the story of a (Continued on Page 5)

EVERETT BISHOP, ALUMNUS, APPEARS IN SONG RECITAL

Davidson College Magazine Presents Famous Soloist in Concert

Davidsonians enjoyed quite a treat last Thursday evening, November 9th, in hearing a concert by Everett Bishop, of the class
of '12. It is rare that a Davidson audience has such an opportunity, especially of hearing an alumnus of the
school. Mr. Bishop was welcomed by quite an appreciative audience. They manifested their enjoyment by encoring him again and again.
Mr. Bishop was brought to Davidson under the auspices of the College Magazine, the Magazine receiving half of the door
receipts.

The first number of the program was The Rage of the Tempest, followed by several Old English Songs. These old
songs greatly pleased his hearers. The next songs were written by John Masefield, and supposed to be the words of
an old English sailor. Among the other selections were Tommy Man, There Is No Death, and the always popular Kipling
songs, Danny Deever, and On the Road to Mandalay. These songs are always pleasing, but as sung by Mr. Bishop
were even more so.

Mr. Bishop was ably assisted at the piano by Miss Hattie Thompson, who interpreted the various selections in her usual
pleasing manner.

WILDCATS TO FACE TAR HEELS TO A QUEEN’S TASTE

Anything that is lacking in the way of Wildcat enthusiasm will be brought to the surface Saturday. Queens will be
out in full force—and in the adjoining stands. WOW!

WOFFORD EASILY DEFEATED BY WILDCAT ELEVEN, 34-0

Passes of Davidson and Punts of Wofford Feature Game

Davidson completely outclassed Wofford in every department of the game last Saturday in Charlotte and won its most decisive victory
of the season by a 34-0 score. The outcome of the contest was never in doubt, but despite their overwhelming
defeat the Terriers put up a good game. Many substitutions were made by both teams, especially Wofford, who sent in
an almost continuous stream of second-string men.

The Wildcat machine started early and ground out its touchdowns with clocklike regularity. They received the initial kickoff on their
20-yard line and in three minutes they had pushed their first touchdown over the last white mark. Hendrix's 35-yard sprint
off tackle was the largest single contribution to this 80-yard march. The Presbyterians used five minutes and 12 plays to
score their second marker. Hunt recovered the onside kick in midfield and despite a 15-yard setback by the referee, Hendrix’s
26-yard run off tackle, and a pass to Davis that was good for 31 yards and a touchdown, put the
Wildcats safely in the lead.

Davidson had several good opportunities to score in the second quarter but was unable to drive the oval over. In
the third quarter Wofford had their best opportunity to score, and carried the ball to Davidson's three-yard line, only to
lose it on downs. Seven plays, yielding six first downs and a touchdown, carried the pigskin 71 yards for the
Wildcats’ third counter. The aerial game gave the Red and Black their last two touchdowns. A pass over the Hendrix-Davis
route resulted in a 5-yard gain and a touchdown. Hoole started a long toss down the field but Popsy Hunt
got in the way and trotted 41 yards for the Wildcats’ last touchdown.

Nappy Davis played one of the best games of his career. He showed his worth on the offensive by turning
in 155 yards gained on passes. He gained more ground than any other man on the field and scored two
touchdowns. In addition to running his team in great style and hurling passes for gains of over 200 yards, Hendrix
got off some of the prettiest runs of the day. His long runs in the first quarter paved the way
for the Wildcats’ first two scores. Gig Shepherd, tuning up for the Carolina game of next Saturday, showed his old-time
form and looked mighty good. In the line McMasters and Sorrels played the best games. The outstanding feature of Wofford’s
play was the excellent punting of Hoole. The Terrier quarter got off some dandy spirals for 50 and 60 yards.
They were high as well as long, giving the ends plenty of time to get downfield.

(Continued on page seven)

QUEEN CITY'S GREATEST GRID CONTEST

Coach Grey’s Men Primed for Onslaught on Blue and White Warriors

STUDENT BODY SPECIAL

Saturday promises to be a red-letter day in Wildcat football annals for at 3 p.m. on Wearn Field Wildcats and
Tar Heels meet on the gridiron for the 20th time. Doped to lose by a safe margin, the eleven red-clad
warriors will battle against Bill Fetzer’s “wonder team” before the largest crowd which has ever poured through the gates. Well
over 7,000 people will be on hand when the whistle blows, and 7,000 enthusiastic onlookers will see a great battle
for the Wildcats always present a colorful attack and are at their best against the Blue and White team.

The seating capacity of the field will be increased by installing the circus seats from the University and there will
be standing room for several thousand more spectators. Both student bodies will be on hand to back their teams, and
rivalry is at the highest pitch. Five hundred Wildcats will be on hand to assist in keeping the Red and
Black above the Blue and White. Although last year’s contest resulted in a deadlock, the Wildcats, with Gig Shepherd delivering
the final punch, won two years ago. The Red and Black still tops the White and Blue.

The Carolina special from Chapel Hill and the Wildcat special will both carry their full quota of rooters to the
game. The Carolinians journey to Charlotte confident of a victory which will wipe out the sting of the past two
years, while the Davidsonians, with their backs to the wall, will fight tooth and nail against the formidable Tar Heel
machine which has yet to suffer defeat at the hands of a Southern eleven.

From the records of the two teams and comparative scores the Tar Heels are slated to get the best of
the argument by a margin of three touchdowns. Carolina has made a wonderful record this fall, with victories over Wake
Forest, Trinity, South Carolina, N. C. State, Maryland, Tulane and V. M. I. The only game which Carolina has lost
this season went to Yale, 18-0, and this score does not indicate the true strength of the Carolina team for
they crossed the Eli goal line only to be called back for offside, and outrushed their heavier opponents.

The Wildcat record is by no means so imposing. Victories over Elon and Wofford; defeats by P. C., Georgia Tech,
Trinity and State; and tie games with Wake Forest and V. P. I. make up the Wildcat record. The figures,
State 15—Davidson 0, seem to show that the Wildcats were completely outclassed, but a look at the vital statistics of
the game will show that they were outclassed only in the score, which, however, is the only thing that counts.

By comparative scores, which a great part of the time are worth less than nothing, the Wonder Team completely overshadows
the Wildcats. Carolina and Davidson have played three teams in common, Wake Forest, Trinity and State. Comparing the Wake Forest
games, Carolina has a 59-point margin. From the Trinity scores they have a 32-point margin, and from the State games
a 20-point margin. From the average of the three Carolina’s margin of victory would be 37 points. But comparative scores
do not take into consideration the Wildcat fighting spirit, the spirit which tied both State and Carolina last year when
the dope said 14 points against Davidson in both games. Most bets spot Carolina 14 points and at that figure
(Continued on page seven)

“VENI, VIDI, VICI” IS THE CHARLOTTE SLOGAN
