THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 7, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

DAVIDSON SOON TO HEAR GREAT WOMAN ORATOR

Davidson is to have a rare treat on December 12th when Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, America’s foremost woman orator, speaks in Shearer Hall. Her address on Modern Arabian Knights will undoubtedly be one of the outstanding events of our fall semester. Mrs. Owen is the daughter of William J. Bryan, America’s great Commoner. She has inherited much of her father’s talent and her talk will be of interest to every student. Mrs. Owen, with her husband, Major Reginald Owen, of the British army, has traveled extensively through England, Egypt, the West Indies, and America, also having made a journey around the world. During the war, she served in important positions in relief work. Besides being a woman of unusual ability and broad experience, she has been a distinct success as a lecturer. Her command of the English language and her direct and convincing delivery have acquired for her nation-wide fame, and Doctor Lingle, chairman of the college platform committee, is to be congratulated in securing her to speak to us.

WALLACE REID TO BE SHOWN IN “CLARENCE”

Those who think they know Wallace Reid may be a little disappointed in “Clarence.” This production reveals an entirely new side of Wallie. In this picture, he plays the shabby whimsical doughboy who comes into a family and, with the aid of his saxophone, sets everything aright. This is quite a departure from the alert and immaculate Wallie we are used to. Nearly everyone who sees this picture will admit that it is an unusually clever piece of work. It is one of the masterpieces of William De Mille. It is a meticulously careful transcription of the play of the same name by Booth Tarkington. All those who are familiar with contemporary literature of the lighter sort will remember that he is the author of “Penrod,” “Seventeen,” and other well-known comical novels. The play, “Clarence,” was said to be the most comical play in New York last season. The adaptation is by Clara Beranger. It has been said that more can be learned about the play from the screen version than from the play itself. Mr. De Mille has provided “Clarence” with an exceedingly charming governess in the person of Agnes Ayers and a most engaging Cora played by May McAvoy. The people who have been wishing for a real good comedy will be well pleased with “Clarence.” “Clarence” will be shown in Davidson Saturday night, December 9th.

BOARDING HOUSE MENU VARIED AND PLENTIFUL

With the passing of Thanksgiving and Senior Week at Davidson, 31 turkeys passed through the Valley of the Shadow of Death and into the multitude of voids beyond. Each boarding house spread before its patrons a feed worthy in all respects of the name Thanksgiving Dinner and brought to the minds of those who remained on the hill memories of a similar day at home. The menus were so elaborate and so long that they could not be published, but in each case, the tables were adorned with huge turkeys with dressing and cranberry sauce. Gardens of celery and great tanks of salads were consumed in short order, while the cakes, if broken and placed crumb by crumb, would have made a solid line from Davidson to Charlotte. Worthy of special mention was the dinner given by the Misses Shewmakers to the 150 or more boarders who board at the Trough. This boarding house claims the distinction of having as guests on the momentous evening three members of the faculty—Doctor Martin, Mr. Jackson, and Professor Wagner. Gamble acted as toastmaster and presented the three gentlemen in order. Doctor Martin, in his discourse on the course of food after being eaten, by means of obscure chemical terms, conclusively showed that Thanksgiving Turkey is the cause of pleasure, discomfort, and especially action. Mr. Jackson's joke was followed by two splendid pastoral anecdotes by Professor Wagner who closed the after-dinner speeches.

PURPLE HURRICANE SUCCEEDS (Continued from Page 1)

Nappy Davis, who ran across for a touchdown: Davidson started off with a rush in the opening period and made five first downs to Furman’s one, keeping the ball in Furman territory the whole period. During this period, Gig passed to Spratt for a gain of 40 yards, placing the ball on Furman’s 20-yard mark as the period closed. Just after the second period opened, Gig dropped back to the 30-yard line and sailed the ball over the bar for the first three points. Poteat returned Shepherd’s kick-off to the 41-yard line and from there the powerful Furman backs hammered the Wildcat line for 59 yards and a touchdown on 14 plays. Dizzy McLeod failed on the extra point and Furman led, 6-3. For the remainder of the half, the ball see-sawed up and down the field and the period closed when Hendrix received a punt on his own 16-yard line. At the opening of the second half, Shepherd kicked off to McCurry who returned 27 yards. The Wildcat line held against the Purple backs and Poteat punted to Hendrix on the 30-yard line. Then it was that an end run, an off-tackle play, and a forward pass netted a touchdown. Gig provided the longest and prettiest play of the game when he ticked off 45 yards around end. His stride baffled the Furman tacklers and he raced down the field sidestepping and dodging until McCurry brought him down. McCurry managed to stop Gig but the Hurricane was not strong enough to check the onward march of the Red and Black and after Spratt hit the line for two yards, Nappy carried the ball across. Gig’s toe accounted for the extra point and the score stood 10-6. Shepherd kicked off again and the Furman backs crashed down the field to the 26-yard line where the thin Red line held firm and took the ball on downs. After running several plays, Shepherd punted half the length of the field and it was Furman’s ball on their 25-yard line. Again the Hurricane marched down the field and in 13 plays carried the oval across for their second counter. McLeod kicked goal and the Purple led, 13-10. There was no more scoring during the game, the Wildcat aerial attack proving a real menace to the Baptists, but an intercepted pass saved them as the third period closed. They then hammered the Wildcat line and marched down to the 11-yard mark, only to lose the ball on downs. Then it was with but a few moments to play that the Wildcats unloosed a bewildering end running and forward passing attack which carried the ball into Furman territory as the final whistle blew. During this advance, Jim Hendrix dropped back to hurl a forward pass and after dodging several rushers, seeing no one open, shot around end for a 17-yard gain. Then a pass to Nappy gained 13 yards as the game ended. Besides the great credit which must go to the six veterans who fought their last grid battle, ’Lias Faison’s work at end deserves special mention. He boxed in his man unfailingly and gave Gig the opportunity to get away for his spectacular gains by his stellar work. On the other end, Nappy starred as a receiver of passes, gaining 55 yards by the aerial route and carrying across the Wildcat’s only touchdown. Both these ends were responsible in large measure for the fine showing of the team. Jim Hendrix, at quarter, ran his team well and aimed his attack at the vulnerable points in the Furman defense with good results. Red McComb, starting his first game, showed up well and played a great defensive game. His interference helped Gig in his circling the ends. The line plunging of Dempsey and Poteat was the main feature of the Baptist offense, but it was Oliver McCurry who staved off defeat for the Hurricane.Twice Gig Shepherd passed all but the safety man and once tripped on his interference, but on the other occasion McCurry nailed him before he could slip past. In the line, Puss Cox at guard and Dizzy McLeod at tackle were the stellar performers for Furman. They were adept at opening up holes and played well on the defensive.

The line-up and summary:

FURMAN (13) DAVIDSON (10) Position
Bradley .......... C .......... M. Davis Left End
McMasters ....... Left Tackle
Davis ............ Left Guard
Burnett .......... Center
Buyck ........... Right Guard
McLeod .......... Right Tackle
Carter ........... Right End
McCurry ......... Quarterback
Poteat ........... Left Halfback
Moore (c) ....... Fullback

Furman scoring—Touchdowns: Dempsey, Poteat. Goal after touchdown—McLeod.
Davidson scoring—Touchdown: C. M. Davis. Goal after touchdown—Shepherd. Goal from field from placement—Shepherd.

Substitutions—Furman: Dempsey for Chewning. Davidson: Cox for Sorrells, DeArmon for McComb, Long for Cox, Dick for DeArmon, Mallory for Faison.

Referee—Stewart (Dartmouth). Umpire—Sampson (St. Albans). Head linesman—Black (Davidson) substituting for McDougal (N. C. State).

FORMER DAVIDSON MAN (Continued from Page 1)
Richards had many friends on the “Hill.” He was a member of both the Ministerial and Volunteer bands and will go to the mission fields when his education is completed. Richards was a Kappa Alpha and his all-around ability is shown in the fact that he was an O.D.K. and amimir, as well as valedictorian of his class. His literary work brought him the position of editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian. Although “Mac” never won his “D,” he worked hard in both baseball and football and was always a familiar figure on Sprunt Field where his ceaseless pep did its bit to help practices along.

REVEREND McKINLEY MAKES (Continued from Page 1)
“Personality,” said Brother Mark, “is a great gift, and a great responsibility. Your personality compels people to think good or bad of you. Christ looked at the rich young ruler, and His personality won the man. Christ won him because He loved him. Men take knowledge of us, whether or not we have been with Him. It is easy to determine whether we have been with Him. We may not have great personalities, but such as we have, we can use powerfully for or against Him. He that receiveth you receiveth Me. What kind of a person do people receive when they receive you and me? Are we the best real men we can be? Not unless we are devoted to Him and not unless we are one with Him, can we be such. One thing keeps us from being the best possible men. That one thing is sin. Sin is the substitution of your own will for God’s will. It is an irreligious lawlessness. Every man has a good side, a Christian side. We are apt to overlook this side in man. Overlooking the Christian side of man is the result of sin. Selfishness is a consequence of sinfulness. Weakness and slothfulness are two other direct results of sin. We let Satan into our lives, for he always attacks on the weak side, the side weakened by sin. Feebleness paves the way for Satan. And we fall away from God. Sin spoils our lives.” The speaker presented examples of drunkards, of men that lived only for self, whose lives were spoiled by their sins. He also showed that sin crucifies. It crucifies the one committing the sin, it crucifies our Lord, it crucifies the man’s family, and it crucifies those with whom he comes in contact. “It renders us useless. By committing sin we blunt ourselves. If there is something in your life that spoils you, that crucifies Christ, that renders you useless to Him, turn over a new leaf.” The speaker called attention to the woman in scripture who wanted to be saved. She went to Christ and He forgave her sins. She was made whiter than snow. Men took knowledge of her that she had been with Jesus. “You are here, to prepare yourselves for greater work,” said Brother Mark. “The spiritual side of your training is most important if you are to be truly educated. You will go out from here and touch the lives of others. Set yourself toward Jesus that men may see that you have been with Him. Make yourself such a man that when men receive you, they receive the real Christ.” The service was closed by another selection by the Queens Octet and a benediction pronounced by Doctor Richards.

SENIORS DELIVER ORATIONS (Continued from Page 1)
Speaking next on “The Orphans in the Storm,” W. A. Gamble compared those nations indebted to the United States to the two orphans of a recent photoplay, caught in the storm of the French Revolution. He questioned the ability of the European nations to pay and support that party which holds that the war debt should be cancelled. “The Old Oak,” the next speech, by F. S. Johnston, dealt with the influence of Calvinism upon present-day religious conditions. He told of its influence on religious doctrines and of their influence upon the world; treating especially of the influence of Calvinism upon the Presbyterian Church. The last speaker was J. W. Baldwin, whose subject was “The Life of the Nation.” It was easy to tell that Baldwin must have come from the farm as he dealt with the farmer and the farm as furnishing the life of the people. With gradual migration from the farm to the city, he showed that the inevitable result must be lack of production of farm products and a consequent lack of food.

MANY ENJOYABLE FEATURES (Continued from Page 1)
Brother Mark addressed them. The Queens College octet delivered two selections. From beginning to end, Senior speaking was a success. For some unknown reason, Jupiter Pluvius always rules the heavens at this time, but the life of the party is not affected. The festivity is a happy medium between business and pleasure, for it gives ample time for the preparation and delivering of the required speeches, and at the same time is one of the three times in the year when good times predominate.

PORTRAIT OF J. DALTON BY JOHN LONSDALE
The Quaker who made Chemistry a Science

Cavendish had shown that two volumes of hydrogen and one of oxygen always combine completely to form water and nothing else. Proust, a Frenchman, had proved that natural and artificial carbonates of copper are always constant in composition. “There must be some law in this,” reasoned Dalton (1766-1844), the Quaker mathematician and school teacher. That law he proceeded to discover by weighing and measuring. He found that each element has a combining weight of its own. To explain this, he evolved his atomic theory—the atoms of each element are all alike in size and weight; hence a combination can occur only in definite proportions. In a world of fleeting events, Dalton’s theory was published in 1808. In that same year, Napoleon made his brother, Joseph, king of Spain. This was considered a political event of tremendous importance. But Joseph left no lasting impression, while Dalton, by his discovery, elevated chemistry from a mass of unclassified observations and recipes into a science. Modern scientists have gone beyond Dalton. They have found the atom to be composed of electrons, minute electrical particles. In the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company, much has been done to make this theory practically applicable so that chemists can actually predict the physical, chemical, and electrical properties of compounds yet undiscovered. In a world of fleeting events, the spirit of science and research endures.

General Electric Company
General Office Schenectady, NY.