_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1922

Twelve Days Till Christmas — That She Will Appreciate. — Monogrammed Stationery, Steel Die Embossed. —— A Wide Variety of
Die and Paper Styles and Quick Service. W. J. COOPER

RELIGIOUS NEWS

REV. MR. JUNKIN FILLS PULPIT SUNDAY

The sermon Sunday morning was delivered by Rev. W. F. Junkin, a missionary to China since 1897. Mr. Junkin graduated
from Austin College in Sherman, Texas, and Louisville Seminary in Louisville, Ky. He read as a Scripture lesson a portion
of the first chapter of Romans, beginning with the 13th verse. He took as his text, Romans 1:16, “For I
am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one
that believeth.”

DOCTOR JUNKIN TELLS OF CHINESE CONDITIONS

Dr. W. F. Junkin was the inspiring speaker at the Y. M. C. A. services Sunday evening. The meeting was
in the hands of the class of ’24, members of that class taking prominent parts in the exercise. Vic Brown
led the singing while Wallace Purdy and R. G. White played the piano and violin respectively. Following the opening songs,
W. M. Cox read the Scripture lesson, after which Albert Hillhouse led the house in prayer. H. O. Moss introduced
Doctor Junkin, extending to him a hearty welcome to the hill.

In his talk, which was about religious conditions in China, Doctor Junkin cited three verses of Scripture: Acts 17:26, “He
hath made of one blood all nations for to dwell on the face of the earth;” Romans 3:23, “For all
have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;” and Acts 4:12, “For there is none other name under
heaven given among men whereby we must be saved.” The speaker called to mind the fact that China looks to
America as the Republic of the West and is trying to make itself the Republic of the East. Chinese students
come to American Universities for their education. While here, many of them find the Truth, and hasten to their homes
to bear the good news. They are conscious of a Savior. In closing, the speaker made a strong appeal for
workers to carry the great news to that country. Doctor Junkin has been a missionary to China for 30 years,
and is in America now on a year’s vacation. During his work in China, he has been intimately associated with
Mr. and Mrs. Patterson, and Dr. and Mrs. Bradley, the parents of three Davidson students, all of whom are preparing
for work in that great field.

CHINESE MISSIONARY MINISTERIAL BAND SPEAKER

Doctor Junkin told of his evangelistic work in and about Sutsien, Kiangsu province, China at the regular meeting of the
Volunteer and Ministerial Bands. Doctor Junkin has been in China nearly 30 years laboring in Sutsien, and he and another
missionary are doing itinerant evangelistic work in three counties of Kiangsu province that are populated with two million people.

RED CROSS CHAPTER OFFERS (Continued from Page 1)

Mrs. J. W. Whitener was “Mrs. Trott” and Miss Mary Black was the widow Abel, whose small nephew was the
cause of all the excitement among the neighbors. W. J. Calhoun praised the Freshman class on the spirit they showed
when the team left to play that memorable game with Georgia Tech. “Never have I seen a first-year class show
the Davidson spirit as quickly and as well as did this class,” he said. The Freshmen will have the right
to express their opinion on this matter, but, according to a ruling of the student council, they will not be
allowed to vote with the rest of the student body. They will take a vote among themselves that will determine
their opinion on the subject. And next Monday, if the student body accepts this proposition, the court of control will
go into effect and will function until April 15th. After that time has passed, it will be brought up again
for such permanent action as the student body may wish to take.

NEW FEATURES PLANNED (Continued from Page 1)

The publication is in a condition of limited finances. It is requested that the members of the student body pay
the extra fee as soon after the holidays as possible, and that duringthe holidays each one secure an ad if
possible. It is only on the condition that the finances improve that the new features will be run in the
annual. The art and literary work is progressing well under the direction of Buchanan. O. J. Allison has been added
to the staff as an assistant business manager. The entire contract of printing and engraving has been let to the
Presbyterian Standard.

GIFTS THAT LAST
FOR HER
DAVIDSON SEAL — Pins and Rings.
EVERSHARP — Pens and Pencils, Specially Packed.
ELGIN — Wrist Watches.
DAVIDSON SEAL — Goods, Pillow Tops, Table Runners, Pennants.
W. S. HENDERSON
The Jeweler

GIFTS THAT LAST
in Gift Sets, Felt and
For Christmas

A Gift

Houn took the part of the self-important “Ezra Williams,” and Harry Russell truly found his tongue and, as a fitting
climax, told Inez of his love for her. Both plays were well acted and much credit is due Mrs. Wagner
and those making up the cast for their success in the production.

During the intermission, Dr. L. B. McBrayer, head of the State Tuberculosis Sanatorium, and president of the North Carolina Anti-Tuberculosis
League, addressed the house, using as his subject, “Fighting Tuberculosis.” Following his address, Miss White, chairman of the Christmas Seal
sale committee, made a talk in which she expressed the intention of the Davidson Red Cross chapter to aid any
tubercular patient who goes to the state sanatorium from Davidson.

DAVIDSON'S REPUTATION

Distinctive of Davidson

Hollingsworth

The sale could talk to any girl but Inez; and the surprise party to be given the poor widow who
was about to face the calamity of having her small nephew come to live with her. After many interesting experiences
to all, the widow learned that her nephew would not come to live with her, the surprise party was not
given, and

Pennants, Table Runners, Banners, and Stationery with the Davidson Seal. In a wide selection of plain and gift designs and
colorings.

Waterman Pens

“Always An Appreciated Gift”

THE WHITE DRUG CO.

THE COMMISSARY
“Service for Our Mutual Benefit”

To Wish you a Merry, Merry Christmas and a Happy and Joyous New Year.
To Thank you for the business that you gave us during the year that is closing.

NEW PROPOSAL DEATH BLOW
(Continued from Page 1)

hold office for the year. It will be the duty of the judge to appoint attorneys for the prosecution and
defense in every case brought up. These attorneys will be appointed in time to give them opportunity to investigate each
charge, and to present the true details to the court. Any shipping offense will be referred to the student council
as heretofore.

On Saturday morning, at a meeting of the Freshman class, Bascomb Sorrells and Leonard Dick explained the court more thoroughly
as to how it would affect the first-year men. The talks of both men were favorable to the adoption of
the court. Sorrells said in part: “Some say that stopping hazing will stop Davidson spirit. Davidson spirit has to grow
on a man and can’t be beat into him. No proposition can argue against the good of stopping hazing.” He
mentioned the spirit of the school and complimented

Watch your words and the impressions you make about your College, its standards, its equipment, the type of students that
come to Davidson, the spirit that prevails. Every one likes a Booster if he tells the truth.

To Express the hope that the opportunity to serve you may be ours many times during the year that soon
is in your keeping during the Christmas holidays.
