Wake Forest Wow! V.P.I. RACK TEAM! FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 7, 1922. NO. 27

Dr. J. M. Wells Speaks to Student Organizations
President of Columbia Theological Seminary Visits Davidson and Conducts Student Services.

Dr. J. M. Wells, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, taking his text from I Cor. 16:13, gave a short and
interesting address on the subject, “Quit You Like Men,” before the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday. During his two-day
stay at Davidson he also filled the pulpit of the Presbyterian Church twice, and addressed the Volunteer and Ministerial Bands,
besides holding 25 15-minute interviews with students concerning future work and training.

In beginning his “Y” address he explained why the Corinthian Church needed the advice “Quit you like men.” Corinth, with
its world of work, business and commerce among all races and classes of people under all conditions, was a city
of great vileness and corruption, and such advice as Paul gave was sorely needed. Just what do the words “Quit
you like men” mean? Doctor Wells explained them to mean the conquering of lower instincts and impulses, and attaining victory
over self. The essential element of success in the world is not “pull,” but manhood. The man who is not
a creature of his own weaknesses, but attains victory over self, is the one who succeeds. The world admires true
manhood. Everyone has a certain tendency to grow in accordance with his surroundings. But the true man is the one
who dominates world environments, and by honest toil and strenuous effort overcomes and rises above instincts to let fleshly lusts
and desires dominate. The higher instincts must dominate if the all-important victory is to be achieved. Subduing self is no
easy thing. Life is a struggle. Outside help must be summoned. But when this outside help, Jesus Christ, is secured,
there is no limit to one’s attainment. “I can do all things through Christ who strengtheneth me.”

Arnet Gamble conducted the service, and Ted Jones led the singing. A violin solo by W. S. Buchanan was enjoyed,
while Graham White and Wallace Purdy also contributed towards the success of the music. E. B. McGukin closed the service
with a prayer.

Ministerial Band.
The Ministerial Band met Sunday at 1:45 p.m. in Shearer Hall. Dr. J. M. Wells spoke on the subject, “The
Duty of Obedience.” The meeting was opened by a song, followed by sentence prayers. After a few words of introduction
by Frank Johnson, Doctor Wells spoke. He took for his text parts of verses 26 and 27 of the eighth
chapter of Acts, which say: “And the angel of the Lord spake unto (Continued on page 3)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS
at puppy loves are the dog’s life. Bow wow! Spectacular Play by Pat Crawford, Catching Man on First With Two
Men Out.

DAVIDSON VS. WAKE FOREST.
Photo by H. M. White.

CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT OFFERS THREE NEW COURSES
The Chemistry Department of Davidson College, for the year 1922-23, is offering three new courses, embracing Physical, Inorganic, and Agricultural
Chemistry.

The course in Physical Chemistry will be elective to those students who have already had two years of College Chemistry.
The theoretical rather than the practical aspect of Physical Chemistry will be taught; theories of gases and colloidal suspensions will
be among the subjects discussed. Advanced Inorganic Chemistry will be open to students who wish to do further work in
that field of chemistry. Special methods of analysis of steel, milk, water, gas, and other substances will be emphasized. Agricultural
Chemistry is a practical course which includes a discussion upon that side of chemistry which affects the farmer. It will
be open to the men who have had two years of chemistry.

Peace Oratorical Contest Preliminaries to Be Held
Davidson Orators to Take Part In National Contest on Subject of International Peace.

The Intercollegiate Peace Oratorical Contest for North Carolina will be held at Burlington on April 21. The Davidson preliminaries will
take place on April 14. This contest is one of a number of state contests being held this spring. There
are three prizes offered, $75, $50, and $25. The winner of this contest will have his paper forwarded to the
national headquarters of the organization, where it will be placed in competition with the papers of the winners of other
states, the winner of which contest will receive an additional $50. The only conditions imposed are that the speeches must
not be over 14 minutes in length and must bear in some manner on world peace. This contest is an
annual affair, having been held for the past nine years. Davidson has not been represented in the contest for some
time, although several years previous to the war a Davidson man won the national contest. Although no names have been
mentioned, it is known that several of the members of the Polity Club and other embryo

1922 Wildcat Track Squad Selected at Time Trials
Coach Grey Preparing for V. P. I. Meet Saturday. Prospect Bright.

The first track trials of the year were held on Sprunt Field Monday with very favorable results. These elimination trials
were held in order to select the team for the meet with V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va., Saturday. Although
Coach Grey states that these records are by no means accurate, they will give a general idea of the standing
of the team. The outcome of the trials was as follows:

100 Yards
Hendrix, 10 1-5 seconds.
Crawford, 10 2-5 seconds.
Hoye, 10 3-5 seconds.
Mathews, 10 7-10 seconds.

220 Yards.
Hendrix, 22 1-5 seconds.
Crawford, 22 3-10 seconds.
Hoye, 22 2-5 seconds.
McIver, 24 7-10 seconds.

440 Yards
Cromartie, 55 1-5 seconds.
Hendrix, 55 3-5 seconds.
Hoye, 56 2-5 seconds.
McLean, 62 seconds.

Half Mile
Galloway, 2:5 2-5.

One Mile
Roberts, G.B., 4:57 4-5. McLean, 5:42 3-5. Two Miles McBryde, 11:16 1-5. Russell, 11:32 4-5. 120 Yard High Hurdles McGukin,
19 4-5 seconds. Davis, 20 3-5 seconds. Gracy, 20 4-5 seconds. Running Broad Jump Gracy, 19 feet 12 inches. McGukin,
18 feet 6 inches. Calhoun, 18 feet 5 inches. Pole Vault Gracy, 10 feet. Malloy, 9 feet. 17 Pound Shot
Knight, J. I., 39 1-10 feet. Discus Knight, J. I., 116 feet. Running High Jump Calhoun, 5 feet 7 inches.

Orators are hard at work upon their speeches.

REPORTERS CLUB NAMES NEW OFFICERS FOR COMING YEAR

At the meeting of the Davidsonian Reporters’ Club held last Friday night, the officers for the 1922-23 year were elected.
W. P. Brown was elected as the new president of the club and after several close ballots were taken R.
H. Smith was elected vice-president, and C. V. Brown, secretary and treasurer. Each of these men have well proved their
ability along the reportorial line and they well deserve the offices to which they have been elected. These men are
to be installed at the next meeting of the club. The present officers, Rolston Bitzer, president; Geo. Mauze, vice-president, and
Henry Morris, secretary and treasurer, who have so successfully guided the work of the club during the past year, retire
with this issue of the paper.

Friends of Mrs. Wooten will be glad to know she is better after an illness of several days.

Dr. Pons Heard By Members Le Cercle Francais

Local French Students Are Addressed by Noted French Lecturer.

During the past week Doctor Pons, of the Waldensian Church at Valdese, N. C., delighted the French students with several
interesting lectures on the life and customs of the Waldensians. Doctor Pons is a native of Switzerland. He came from
that part of Switzerland which has held settlements of the Waldensian Church since the early part of the Reformation. A
majority of the inhabitants of this country speak German, but this section has retained its native French. He came to
the United States in 1892 and since that time he has traveled quite extensively throughout the country, working among the
various churches in which he is interested. On Monday afternoon he lectured to the Sophomore French classes on “The History
of the Waldensians,” giving their origin and history after they were driven from France. He addressed Le Cercle Francais on
Monday night, telling of the colony now situated at Valdese, N. C. He described their manners and customs, giving some
(Continued on page 2)

Wake Forest Defeated By Rally in Last Innings

A Win Over Catawba and a Defeat at the Hands of Trinity Completes Week’s Card.

Wake Forest Game.

Coach Hengeveld is feeling much better, thank you. In fact, all the little Hengevelds are feeling better. Coach took his
family out for an outing on Sprunt Field Monday, and after cavorting and otherwise disporting themselves on the diamond two
hours and 23 minutes by a daylight saving clock, every one of the 800 spectators agreed that they had seen
a game that sizzled, bubbled, and finally boiled over. The Wake Forest ball tossers, with five fresh scalps of North
Carolina colleges dangling at their belts, met their playmates, but the Wildcats handed them the short end of a 5-4
score.

The game rocked along for five innings in a scoreless manner. Although Boushee had yielded four hits, none came in
the inning. Davidson's first hit came in the fifth when McLeod poked a haymaker to left but Hunkie was left
stranded on the hot corner. In the sixth the game took on a livelier aspect. Wake scored once on a
two-base hit and three errors. More tallies for the visitors were prevented only by Crawford’s sensational work—but more of that
anon. The Wildcats also scored in their half of the sixth when Freeman walked and registered on Luke’s double.

A single, double, triple and two errors produced two runs for Wake Forest in the seventh. But Boushee then clamped
down on the visitors and with airtight support held the visitors scoreless during the remainder of the game. The Wildcats
got busy, however, and one of them chugged his way around the entire circuit during each of the remaining innings.
In the seventh, McMillan singled, took second on McLeod’s bingle, went to the hot corner on a wild pitch and
tallied on Brown's bounder. Crawford followed him over the rubber in the next round on a double to right, a
passed ball, and Pritchett’s drive to center. Brown checked in with the tying counter in the ninth stanza. He clashed
a single to left and continued on to the half-way station when Albritton let the ball get away from him.
Boushee advanced him a peg with an infield out and he scampered home on Mace Erwin’s safety to left. The
winning tally came in the tenth. Wake Forest threatened in their half; Barnes doubling to center for an opener. Poole
popped a low fly over second that Luke Erwin pocketed and tossed to (Continued on page 2)

WHAT'S DOING.

Thursday, Apr. 6—Phi Society, 6:45 p.m. Eu Society, 7:00 p.m. Pandemic Society, 9:00 p.m. Metrophilian Society, 9:00 p.m. Friday, Apr.
7—Pictures. Saturday, Apr. 8—Baseball: State at Charlotte. Sunday, Apr. 9—Volunteer Band, 10:00 a.m. Christian Endeavor Training Class, 2:00 p.m. Ministerial
Band, 1:45 p.m. Monday, Apr. 10—Bible Study Class Leaders, 9:00 p.m. Wednesday, Apr. 12—Bible Study Class Leaders, 9:00 p.m.

NEXT YEAR---500---QUALITY FIRST
