“THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 14, 1921

THE DAVIDSONIAN

CAMPUSISMS

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH.......Forum Editor
E. B. DAKIN.......Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN.......Campus Editor
W. M. HESTER.....Second Managing Editor
D. H. OGDEN.......Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. R. JONES.......Assignment Editor
W. T. ELLIOTT.....Social Editor
E. H. MAUZY.......Literary Editor
W. M. COX........Press Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD...Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY...Assistant Manager
C. C. MINTER, J. A. BARRINGTON, J. C. MINTER, J. A. APPLE, F. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, B. V. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
S. COOPER..........Business Manager
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, and W. G. GUILLE...Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN...Office Assistant
E. J. ROSCH..........Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN.......Circulation Manager
S. C. PAINE.........Asst. Circulation Mgr.
Assistants
R. B. LILES
E. C. MOOMAW
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.
CALHOUN, M. P.
EARNEST, J. R.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
LAKE, J. A.
POMEROY, W. I.
PRICE, H. B.

This is the last issue of The Davidsonian for this fall. We wish our subscribers a Merry Christmas, and hope
that all will greatly enjoy the holiday season.

A COURT OF CONTROL

All the members of the student body are familiar with the details of the Court of Control which it is
planned to establish here in place of the old vigilance committee. If hazing is abolished, this court will take a
much more effective control over the Freshmen than the Sophs or any individuals ever could. What hazing could not do
in the way of showing a Freshman that he is expected to live up to the Davidson traditions and conduct
himself as a Freshman should, this court can do. Every Freshman will be given a fair hearing before it, and
before his trial is over he will realize that the court means business. Afterwards, there is no doubt of the
fact that he will be improved a great deal more than if he had been hazed.

Since it is not desirable to act too hastily and afterwards regret it, the Student Council has proposed that we
adopt an amendment to the constitution of the student body establishing this Court of Control until next April in the
place of hazing. Even those who don’t believe it will work, can’t fairly object to a trial of several months.
Everyone realizes that the present situation is unsatisfactory. This looks like an excellent and most advisable remedy. Why not give
it a chance to prove its merits?

DO WE WANT HAZING?

This fall has found organized hazing effectively done away with at Davidson. The result last year of an attempt or
two on the part of the Sophomore class showed plainly the end that always attended such things, and we stood
by one resolve to put down this kind of hazing and stamped it out. Ever since there has remained a
little hazing by individuals that has been the source of much trouble. No one has enjoyed it, not even those
who did it, and no one can claim that any good has come from it. Any Freshman who was a
little too fresh has stayed as much so as ever, and those who did not deserve to be hazed have
reaped the results of the misdeeds of the others, which is certainly unfair.

Practically all severe hazing that has gone on was done by a few careless individuals. Because of their actions, Davidson
is getting a name over the country that she does not want nor as an institution really deserves. On account
of this bad treatment in a few instances, many of our friends are criticizing the college, failing to support it
in the various ways desired, and even writing accusations against it in the form of personal and anonymous letters. These
things simply show that the spirit of the people over the country is absolutely against all hazing. This is more
clearly proved by the action of all the more advanced and progressive colleges and universities. For quite a while several
North Carolina institutions have been rid of hazing, and just recently another, Wake Forest College, abolished it. The Davidson student
body has always been known over the State and country as being at least on a par with that at
these other institutions. Our college has long enjoyed an enviable reputation among educational institutions. It looks now as though we
are about to be left behind. With a statement before them that hazing is done at Davidson and is not
allowed at other colleges, parents will hesitate before sending their boys here. Since a bad state of affairs does not
exist at Davidson, and we are not behind the times in the spirit of the student body as a whole,
we should welcome this opportunity to correct the impressions that people on the outside are receiving of us. Since none
of us enjoy what little hazing we do, and no benefit is coming to anyone from it, we should be
willing to cut it out altogether. Let’s give the matter a lot of careful consideration, fellows, before we turn down
the chance we now have to do away with the thing entirely.

In a conversation on the campus the other night this remark was made by someone: “When I go with a
girl she knows she’s been went with.” Guess who?

“You look sweet enough to eat,”
He whispered soft and low.
“I do,” the co-ed answered,
“Shall we to Miss Minnie’s go?”

Be careful Fi!

Neil Currie will doubtless assist in coaching the baseball team this spring on how to slide gracefully—especially on muddy ground.

Hugh Smith seems to be in his dotage—in other words his second childhood. At any rate he’s in the infirmary
with chicken pox.

If tin cans could go to perdition, the one that was kicked around so much Sunday afternoon on first floor
West, would certainly wind up its career in said place.

One way to find out who your friends are is to spend a few days in the infirmary.

I. A. West, ‘24, has been recently initiated into Phi Alpha Pi.

A passenger on one of the trains, on seeing so many derby-clad boys hanging around such as Spoofy Sydenstricker and
others wanted to know if this was a Jewish school.

While Hugh is in the infirmary, Henry is afraid to stay by himself, so he’s moved his quarters to West
Dorm. Conscience must hurt him or something like that.

Friends of M. W. Trawick will regret to hear that overstudy has caused paralysis of the seventh cranial nerve. It
is to be hoped that this trouble can soon be remedied.

The latest converts to Mr. Flu are C. D. Regan, T. I. Fraser, W. S. Buchanan, H. E. Wilkerson, A.
D. Cromartie, Roy Pritchett, and I. Barron. All these enjoyed a few days at the infirmary.

WILDCAT MINSTRELS
(Continued from Page 1)

The same show will be given on the road as was rendered here during Senior Speaking, with only slight changes
to adapt it to the location.

The probability is that the money made on these engagements will be given to the Davidson campaign. The proposed purpose
of the trips is to further the advertisement of this campaign and it is believed that it will help much
in bringing in the desired dollars.

It must be understood that these plans are only tentative. The consent of the faculty has not been obtained as
yet, and if the permit is received at once,The first trip will not be until after the Christmas holidays. For
the benefit of those who were away or for any other reason were unable to see the presentation of the
Sultan of Sarawak during Senior Speaking, a second performance will likely be given Friday night, December 15, 1922, in Shearer
Hall. The minimum admission of 25 cents will be charged. Let no one allow this golden opportunity to slip by.

EIGHT STALWART WILDCATS
(Continued from page 1)

The powerful back who played the best game of his career against Furman on Thanksgiving day has had four years’
experience on the team, winning three letters. He will be a wonderful man to build a backfield around. A resume
of the season would be incomplete without a word of appreciation for the scrubs. To them who realize that they
won't win a letter, but who are willing to give of their time and strength to help the varsity, to
these men we give our thanks! Special mention should be made of the three Seniors who stayed out till the
last practice, Crawford, Moore, and McLaurin.

Christmas Time
She—Isn’t it strange that a man’s arm is equal to the circumference of a girl’s waist?
He—Let’s get a string and see.—Ex.

By O. J. ALLISON

There seems to be others besides the students who dislike to attend chapel on cold, frosty mornings. One good thing
the Minstrels did, at any rate, was to give these would-be musicians around here a new tune or two to
laboriously—

The Charlotte Observer of December 8, announces that Wake Forest College has abolished hazing. A bath is like a college
education—once you get it, no one can ever take it away from you.—Chaparral.

On the old seawall she held my hand
I let my soul-felt pleadings flow
I coaxed, I begged, I swore—and yet
That doggone crab would not let go.
—The Log.

On Thanksgiving Day I found the best way to talk Turkey is to: gobble.

On the Styx
1st Shade—What are Sherman and Farragut arguing about?
2nd Shade—Why, Farragut claims Sherman never saw an Army-Navy game before he defined war.—The Log.

Cheer for Cheer
Full many a winning Navy team
Has played a winning game
And many a man has won his place
In Navy's Hall of Fame.
Yet none of these old heroes came
Of more heroic mold
Than those men who on Franklin Field
Upheld the Blue and Gold.
But now we'll add another tale
To memories of the past
Of how a Navy team went down
Still battling to the last
So while the Pointers cheer the team
That we must beat next year
We'll gather round our Navy team
And give them cheer for cheer.
(Reprinted from The Log of 1914.)

Mrs. Seig—Did that man kiss you?
Myrtle—You don’t think that he drove 40 miles to hear me sing, do you?

“Do you drink?”
“Nope.”
“Then tell me what makes your nose so red?”
“Well, it's glowing with pride because it is kept out of other people's business.”

M. Wilkinson—I don’t know what to do with my week-end.
E. Daniels—Put your hat on it.

“Dearest,” he said, “do you think you could love a fellow like me?”
“I might,” she replied, “if he wasn’t too much like you.”—Brackety Ark.

Ted—What kind of fellow is Blinks?
Bill—Well, he is one of those fellows who always grab the stool when there is a piano to be moved.

2Much
I often sit and meditate
Upon the scurvy trick of fate
That keeps me still a celibate
Oh, cruel fate!
I want a tender maid sedate
To love me and to be my mate
My fortitude is not so great
I cannot wait.
Oh, fate benign!
Before too late relieve my awful single state
And when I’ve won this maid sedate
We'll osculate,
—Shanghai American School.

“Do Englishmen understand American slang?”
“Some of them do. Why?”
“My daughter is to be married in London, and the earl has cabled me to come across.”
—Boston Transcript.

Oh Mr. Gallagher, Oh Mr. Gallagher,
Did you ever hear the place they call West Point?
It's the military school
From which the Navy took the mule;
Do you think they can repeat the feat this year?
Oh Mr. Shean, Oh Mr. Shean,
Of course I know the place you mean,
But for every service game,
Every victory is the same
For the Army, Mr. Gallagher?
No, the Navy, Mr. Shean.
—The Log.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
SIXTH SUCCESSIVE VICTORY WON WHEN WILDCATS DEFEAT TIGERS
Davidson Overcomes Clemson’s Lead and Wins by Score of 21 to 9

The game started off rather inauspiciously for Davidson when Banks received the kickoff on the five-yard line and slipped down
the sidelines for 90 yards before Gray stopped him—Clemson made her touchdown in three plays—near the end of the second
quarter a pass, Spann to King, netted the Wildcats a touchdown. Soon after Clemson scored two points and the half
ended with the score 9 to 7 in Clemson's favor. Clemson entered the second half full of hope, but they
left the field at the end, downcast and with their hopes blasted. Davidson opened up passes of all varieties, wonderfully
executed and bewildering to the surprised Tigers. Two touchdowns were added to the Wildcat score by this method and when
the game ended they were about to cross Clemson's line for a third.

SUMMARY OF 1917 FOOTBALL SEASON
Davidson 6; Navy 27.
Davidson 7; A & E 10.
Davidson 13; Ga. Tech 32.
Davidson 7; Pal. 28.
Davidson 7; Furman 21.
Davidson 7; Auburn 73.
Davidson 7; Wake Forest 62.
Davidson 0; Wofford 21.
Davidson 9; Clemson 254.
Davidson 116; Opponents

Various and sundry reasons have been given for Davidson's success. But to save time and trouble, the real reason for
our winning is named—Coach Bill Fetzer. We firmly believe that if our “Coach Bill” had the material and necessary financial
backing he could turn out a Red and Black machine that would plow through the Hindenburg line for a touchdown
in Berlin.

CLIPPING FROM ATLANTA JOURNAL
“We desire here and now to claim for the Davidson Wildcats the lightweight championship of the world. No team ever
put together in these United States of the same weight as Coach Fetzer’s team could ever get the verdict over
that flock of wild men from North Carolina.”

FRESH-SOPH DECLAMATION CONTEST
The Fresh-Soph Declamation contest of the Phi Society was held last Monday night. The judges awarded the medal to Dwight
M. Chalmers, ’20, who spoke on “The Destiny of America.”

CLASS CHAMPIONSHIP WON BY JUNIORS
Last Tuesday evening saw the end of the class basketball tournament when the Juniors defeated the Fresh, 34 to 30.
Schenck and Harrington for the Fresh and Potts and Alexander for the Juniors were the outstanding stars of the game.

WILDCAT FORENSIC ARTISTS
(Continued from Page 1)

This is the first time since 1919 that the two teams have met on the debating platform. In the debate
of that year, W. M. Currie and E. G. Lilly, both of the class of ‘19, succeeded in wresting the
decision from the Generals on the question of government ownership of railroads. There is no doubt but that W. and
L. will put forth every effort to avenge this defeat. The debate was originally scheduled for December 15th, but owing
to a misunderstanding on the part of W. and L., the date had to be changed to December 16th. The
team will leave Davidson on Friday, December 15th, and will return Tuesday, December 19th. The debating council was unable to
secure the triangular debate with Wake Forest and Trinity this year, but has tentative plans for debating each of these
institutions if the necessary financial aid can be secured. This can be done only through faculty aid or by a
slight addition to the blanket fee. If arranged, these debates will take place sometime during the spring term. The inter-collegiate
debating record of Davidson has been truly remarkable. Since the first debate in 1909 the forensic Wildcats have won a
total of 19 out of 27 debates.
