THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

Query for Debate, April 20th.
Resolved, that the new Physics building should be brick veneered and made a permanent building on Davidson campus.

POLITY CLUB HEARS DOCTOR LINGLE ON WORLD FINANCES

Doctor Lingle made a very comprehensive talk to the International Relations Club last Tuesday night on the subject of International
Finances. Before going into his speech, Doctor Lingle told what the club has meant to him in the way of
contact with the students and the discussion of world affairs and problems.

About eleven billions of dollars are due to us from our former allies, but Doctor Lingle made it clear that
no gold actually went overseas as we loaned it to them in the form of extended credits for the purchase
of war supplies manufactured or produced in this country. This was used after 250 million dollars and dividends invested by
the allies before the war were used up. But on the other hand, nine-tenths of our shipping went overseas in
foreign vessels and this reduced their indebtedness to us considerably.

Doctor Lingle laid particular stress on the fact that no cash to amount to anything has ever left the United
States, and the only way our former allies will ever pay us what they owe us would be by the
imports to the United States exceeding the exports by a very large margin. He showed that this is practically impossible
for some time to come as Europe must rebuild almost from the ground up in her industries and not until
conditions were absolutely normal could we hope to even begin to collect the amount due us.

Besides being very interesting, Doctor Lingle gave a clear and comprehensive talk on a subject that should be clear to
everyone, but heretofore has been hazy in the minds of most people.

NEW REPORTERS CHOSEN FOR FUTURE DAVIDSONIAN WORK

At the meeting of the Reporters’ Club held on last Friday night, the following men were elected to membership: J.
R. Earnest, D. D. McIvor, C. M. McIlwaine, I. M. Moss, H. B. Price, D. B. Wharton, and A. N.
Moffatt.

These men have been chosen as members of the club because of their good work as reporters and because of
their promptness in handing in assigned work. They will be taken in Thursday night at a feed given by the
club.

GET RICH-QUICK PLAN WAS GIVEN A SUDDEN REVERSAL

“Get-Rich-Quick Wallingford” appeared here Saturday night. The picture tells of the attempt of Wallingford and his partner, Daw, to defraud
Battlesburg citizens by means of fake stock transactions. Their scheme makes a great hit and they make a lot of
honest money without any effort on their part. They marry Battlesburg girls and become the town’s leading men, transforming the
sleepy village into a busy manufacturing town. The show had a great deal of humor in it and a good
plot. However, the action was slow and drawn out and did not hold the attention of the audience.

BIG CANVAS TOP ATTRACTION WILL BE HERE ON APRIL 17TH

Boys, save your money, the great show is coming! Included in this show are 150 people, 116 head of horses
and ponies, one camel, three elephants, monkeys, trained dogs, 10 cages of living wild animals, and in fact everything that
goes to make up a first-class show. The feature acts are: the great DeMarlow, world’s greatest grotesque artist; Miss Marion
Drew and her herd of performing elephants, wonderful beyond description; the three Georges, the world’s greatest acrobats; also trapeze performers,
wire walkers, and other features too numerous to mention. This greatest of all one-ring entertainments, The Hoag Shows, will be
here Monday, the 17th.

BONUS BILL IS DISCUSSED IN PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY

In its usual feast of reason and flow of soul, Thursday night, the Phi Society discussed the Bonus Bill passed
by the House. S. R. Sloan and Paul Story held that the Senate should also pass this bill, while Freeman
and McGeachy opposed it. McGeachy was the individual star and he gave a clearly outlined speech, although he spoke extemporaneously.
The main point at issue was whether or not the money could be paid. As the affirmative was not able
to convince the judges that the money could be collected without a grievous burden of taxation, the latter decided in
favor of the negative.

Baldwin delivered an oration in his usual eloquent style on “The Evolution of the Dress.” He traced this evolution from
the garden of Eden to the present day.

Grady Brown followed with an account of the Battle of Belleau Woods. He gave an interesting account of the things
he himself had seen in and after the battle.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE IS WON BY THE METROPHILIANS

Last Wednesday evening the Junior-Senior contest between the Metrophilian and Phi Societies was held in the Phi hall. The question
for debate, “Resolved, That the Philippine Islands should be given complete autonomy at once,” was upheld on the affirmative by
Russell, Sloan, and Knight, of the Phi, and on the negative by Wooten, Taylor, and Burney, of the Metrophilian.

The decision of the judges was unanimously in favor of the negative and the medals awarded to the best speakers
went to Burney, of the Metrophilian, and Knight, of the Philanthropic, while Burney, Taylor, and Knight, with Wooten as alternate,
were selected as a team to debate the other societies. Those acting as judges for the contest were: Captain Wetherby,
Professor Fleagle, and Prof. L. M. Currie.

The finals of the Junior-Senior debate will be held on the evening of Monday, April 17. The Eu-Pan team is
composed of Ogden, Patterson, and Moore.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY HAS REGULAR DEBATING PROGRAM

The Metrophilian Literary Society had an unusually good meeting last Thursday night. The debate on the question, “Resolved, That the
bonus bill should be passed,” was the best that the society has heard for some weeks. Upholding the affirmative of
the question were C. E. Hodgin and J. M. Carr. The former had an especially good speech. His points were
well brought out and he showed good logic and thought in his arguments. The negative was defended by J. A.
Abernathy and T. B. Thompson. The judges rendered their decision in favor of the affirmative.

One of the best features of the program was an oration on Garfield by W. A. Patterson. This was one
of the best orations that has been delivered in the society this year. The speaker showed good preparation and delivered
his speech in an excellent manner. T. A. Lacy closed the program with a well-prepared and excellently delivered oration on
“Raleigh.”

NEW BOOKS OF FICTION ARE ADDED TO LIBRARY SHELVES

The library has recently received several new books. All of these books are interesting and deal with a variety of
subjects.

Perhaps the most interesting is “Success,” by Samuel Hopkins Adams. This is a story of human struggle and achievement, thrilling
in plot, and of absorbing interest from the first page to the last.

“Nobody’s Man,” by E. Phillips Oppenheim, is a story of English politics. Mr. Oppenheim’s inventive genius is unfailing, and his
dexterity in creating tangles and then unraveling them brings surprise after surprise to the reader.

Miss Temple Bailey has written a group of unusual short stories, entitled, “Gay Cockade.” In these works, Miss Bailey shows
her remarkable keen insight into different natures and knowledge of the romance that comes to each one.

“The Federalist System,” by John Spencer Bassett, Ph.D., is an outlook by the author on the problems that our government
faced under the guidance of Washington, Hamilton, and Jefferson. Dr. Bassett is professor of History at Trinity College.

A friend of the college has recently donated “An Autobiography,” by Wilmer Atkinson, who was founder of the Farm Journal.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON HAS PROFITABLE DISCUSSIONS

Delightful refreshments served by Mesdames Arbuckle and Thies, together with a splendid program made the meeting of the Gamma Sigma
Epsilon fraternity last Friday evening a most enjoyable affair. A happy group of professors and students gathered at the home
of Dr. Arbuckle on Concord Avenue for the occasion. The dining hall was beautifully decorated, and a delicious supper was
served. After the supper, the regular program was held.

The first number on the program was a paper continuing the club study of vitamins. It was presented by Neal
Currie who handled his subject admirably, giving a bright report on the methods of separation according to Dr. Funk.

The program was continued by an illustrated lecture by C. F. Wildman on the recovery of silver from hypo solutions
used to develop motion picture films. He calculated that in Los Angeles alone a half ton of silver could be
reclaimed fromthe picture industry in one month. Experiments carried out with the lecture and statistics gathered here and there showed
his calculations to be correct. In conclusion, Hugh Smith read a paper on the life and works of Pasteur, well-known
chemist and discoverer of the antitoxin for hydrophobia. This delightful evening will be remembered by all the members of Gamma
Sigma Epsilon as one of the most pleasant events of the year.

D.

ELSIE FERGUSON-WALLACE REID PRODUCTION SATURDAY

Saturday night at the movies “Forever,” with Elsie Ferguson and Wallace Reid sharing the stellar roles, will be seen. This
is said to be the greatest story of love the screen has ever known, being based on the novel “Peter
Ibbetson” by George DuMaurier. The scenes of “Forever” are laid in France and England in the forties of the last
century. Gogo Pasquier, the little son of a chemist, at the death of his father, is adopted by Colonel Ibbetson,
and takes the name of Peter Ibbetson. Peter grows to manhood disgusted with Colonel Ibbetson, supposedly his uncle. He goes
in for sports and becomes a drifter. Peter meets his childhood sweetheart and finds that she is a duchess. He
finds Colonel Ibbetson with Dolores, a dancer, and the Colonel says that Peter is his own son. Later, Peter goes
to him for an explanation and is attacked by the old man. In the battle, Peter kills the Colonel in
defense of himself and is sentenced to be hanged. His childhood friend, now Duchess of Towers, who loves him, has
his sentence commuted to life imprisonment. In his dreams, Peter sees his sweetheart in visions. She becomes a widow, and
both of them spend their lives in dreams. They grow old, and the lady is finally killed in a fire.
About the same time, Peter dies and the two are reunited spiritually.

D.

A tabernacle, modeled after revival tabernacles, as a temporary auditorium, is under consideration by the trustees of Ohio State University.
The present auditorium is not large enough to hold even the men of the Freshmen class, and the building program
does not include an auditorium for some years.

Da.

Students at the University of Amsterdam, Holland, have organized a series of lectures on the liquor problem. Professors of the
university are the speakers.

ae.

ATHLETIC NEWS

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

FREDERICK WILHELM HENGEVELD, ’18.

D*** Basketball. D*** Baseball.

Dutch Hengeveld, of Waycross, Ga., has won for himself a lasting place in the Wildcat Hall of Fame by his
exploits on the hardwood court and the diamond. Winning the coveted monogram four years in basketball and baseball and captaining
two teams, he is known throughout the South as a past-master of the cage game, a strikeout king, and a
clouter of the old apple. The Wildcat cage teams were built around this tall lanky center and without him they
were at sea. The ’18 quint started the season spectacularly by winning five out of six games from the best
teams in Virginia and Carolina. Then came the disastrous trip, on which the team, crippled by his loss due to
injury, dropped three games by small margins. In the Clemson game, Dutch again donned his jersey and playing his last
game under the colors of the Red and Black, eluded all opposition, ringing up 20 points and starring in the
37-22 victory. As a slab-artist, Hengeveld stands in the limelight with a record of 16 won and five lost for
a percentage of .762. In 1918, he led the team in batting with an average of .381 and his four-year
record places him in the honored .300 class. Probably his greatest performance was on a six-game trip through South Carolina
and Georgia in 1918. He played every inning of these games, pitching 30 innings. He ran his batting mark up
to .450, fielded in sensational style and on the side, pitched a double header against Georgia Tech, winning the opener
7-1 and allowing only four safeties in the nightcap. Dutch was a member of the Little Rock Travelers who won
the Southern League rag in 1920. He has been, and still is, turning out winning teams at Davidson.

D.

VIRGINIA TRACK SQUAD

(Continued from page 1)

The team was not disheartened by the defeat and are ready and anxious to meet N. C. State on Saturday.

Summary of Events.

Shot Put—Knight (D. C.), first; Byrd (V. P. I.), second; McDowan (V. P. I.), third. Distance, 37 feet 10 1-2
inches.

100 Yard Dash—Brittingham (V. P. I.), first; Woodward (V. P. I.), second; Koehnig (D. C.), third. Time, 10 seconds.

Pole Vault—Gracy (D. C.) and Byrd (V. P. I.), tied for first; Culbreth (V. P. I.), third. Height, 10 feet.

Mile Run—Newman (V. P. I.), first; Jackson (V. P. I.), second; Sprunt (D. C.), third. Time, 4 minutes, 48 4-5
seconds.

220 Yard Dash—Brittingham (V. P. I.), first; Woodward (V. P. I.), second; Koehnig (D. C.), third. Time, 21 3-5 seconds.

High Jump—Gracy (D. C.), Calhoun (D. C.) and Byrd (V. P. I.), tied for first. Height, 5 feet, 8 inches.

120 High Hurdles—Bowes (V. P. I.), first; Gracy (D. C.), second; Boynton (V. P. I.), third. Time, 17 4-5 seconds.

Discus Throw—Knight (D. C.), first; Potts (V. P. I.), second; de la Barre (V. P. I.), third. Distance, 114 feet,
5 inches.

880 Yard Run—Newman (V. P. I.), first; Galloway (D. C.), second; Shanks (V. P. I.), third. Time, 2 minutes, 8
1-5 seconds.

Broad Jump—Byrd (V. P. I.), first; McElroy (V. P. I.), second; Gracy (D. C.), third. Distance, 21 feet 9 3-4
inches.

220 Yard Hurdles—Bowles (V. P. I.), first; Flory (V. P. I.), second; McFadden (D. C.), third. Time, 26 3-5 seconds.

Javelin Throw—Potts (V. P. I.), first; McCrow (V. P. I.), second; McComb (D. C.), third. Distance, 157 feet, 3 inches.

Two Mile Run—Chinn (V. P. I.), first; Roden (V. P. I.), second; Roberts (D. C.), third. Time, 10 minutes, 40
3-5 seconds.

440 Yard Dash—Woodward (V. P. I.), first; Weyman (V. P. I.), second; Galloway (D. C.), third. Time, 52 seconds.

D.

The Book Lover’s Club met on Friday of last week with Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Prof. A. A. Currie addressed
them on the subject: “The State—Its Rights and Responsibilities.”

New Spring Clothes for College Men

If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no matter who made
it---come here. We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are better. In the cut
of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat, the hang of the trousers, also the
difference between hand tailoring and machine work.

New Society Brand Clothes for spring have just come in and now is a good time to select your spring
clothes.

TATE-BROWN Co.
Charlotte, N. C.
18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for
A. G. Spalding & Bros.

RACKETS RESTRUNG BY AN EXPERT

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. Faust, Mgr.
Phone 902
