* DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Today—1 Page

Vol. I. No. 2

DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 14, 1922

FOUNDED 1922

Presson Motor Company

Authorized Ford Dealer

LINCOLN FORD FORDSON

DAVIDSON, N.C.

WHITE and GRAHAM

Fresh Meats Chickens Eggs

DAVIDSON, N.C.

TOWN NEWS

Romefelt-Grey Wedding Is Announced

Mr. and Mrs. William Richard Grey request the honor of your presence at the marriage of their daughter Mary Parks
to Mr. Birchie Walton Romefelt on Saturday afternoon, the 23rd of December at 5 o'clock Presbyterian Church Davidson, North Carolina

The above invitations have been received by many friends of Miss Grey and Mr. Romefelt. The wedding will be one
of the most interesting social events at Davidson this month. Some of the attendants will be Misses Nancy and Elizabeth
Grey, sisters of the bride, and little Miss Jean Grey. Several affairs have been planned in honor of Miss Grey;
among them being an after-rehearsal party at the home of Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie, when the bridal cake will
be cut.

Thelemites Meet

The Thelemites met on Tuesday evening with Dr. and Mrs. J. Wilson McConnell. Prof. A. Currie was the speaker of
the evening, the guest of honor being Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owens.

Essay Winners Are Awarded Prizes

The prize winners in the best essay contest at the local school were Miss Edith Mooney, from the high school,
and Miss Lucy Martin Currie, from the grammar school. Both of these young ladies are to be congratulated for their
splendid work. Miss Currie’s essay was somewhat in story form, which made it very interesting.

Auxiliary Meets

The Woman’s Auxiliary met Thursday afternoon. There was a good attendance considering the inclement weather and the prevalence of the
“flu” in Davidson. Circle C met with its leader, Mrs. Hunter, Monday afternoon.

Bible Study Classes Studying Christ’s Ministry

The Woman's Bible Study class met Thursday as usual. This class is studying about Christ’s popularity during his Galilean ministry.
The class has eight members: Mrs. Black, chairman; Mrs. A. Currie, teacher; Mrs. Richards, Mrs. Henderson, Miss Mary Black, Miss
Florence Barnes, Miss Mary Lafferty, and Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Church Addition Is Ready for Students

The new addition to the Presbyterian Church is completed and seats in this section will probably be assigned to students
before Sunday. This addition improves both the outside and inside appearance of the church greatly. The church receives ample light
from the addition’s large windows. The pulpit is nearer the center of the church than before and there is now
ample room to seat the entire student body and the church members.

The choir composed of girls from Linden Chapel sang at the Methodist Church Sunday the 3rd.

GLORIA SWANSON PLAYS IN PARISIAN PRODUCTION

The picture for this week is “Impossible Mrs. Bellew.” It is a Sam Woods production and is on a far
more sumptuous scale than any previous production featuring Gloria Swanson. Miss Swanson's role is that of an innocent girl who
is caught in the swirl of Parisian life. Her reputation is somewhat tarnished, but she is at last saved by
a great love. The lavish settings include the Montmartre, the Parisian demi-monde, the carnival of flowers at Monte Carlo, and
the Riviera. It is said that Miss Swanson went to Paris just before she started on this picture especially to
buy new gowns for it. Her leading man is Conrad Nagel, and she is also supported by Robert Cain. Those
of a somewhat morbid turn of mind will be interested by one of the most real-istic murders ever put on
the screen. On the other hand, those who possess a gayer temperament will enjoy the lively Parisian scenes. This picture
bids fair to please everyone.

“Doesn't that girl over there look like Helen Black?”
“I wouldn’t call that dress black.”—Virginia Reel.

FIVE VARSITY LETTER MEN
(Continued from Page 1)

a star at the pastime of looping the pill than he is at the pigskin game, and that’s saying a
mouthful. Last year Nappy was handicapped by scholastic difficulties, but with these out of the way, he looks ripe for
a big year. He will probably pull down a guard assignment. Two letter men will be available for the forward
positions. Mac Beall and Dan Mallory, both of whom captured the coveted monogram in their Freshman year, will be out
this year to show that a year's experience is a big help. Mallory, like Davis, has been playing a great
game as a wingman on the gridiron, while Beall has spent the fall imparting his knowledge of the court game
to the Soph class team. That he did his job well is shown by the wonderful record of that team.
Both of these men are light, but fast, and have developed their floor game to perfection. These men will have
to put out everything they have to keep their places on the varsity, for they will be pushed by a
crowd of hard-working scrubs. The interclass series showed that there are several men who will be ready to hop in
the game should any of the letter men falter. In addition, there are several who were ineligible for class basketball
who will be on hand to contest every position.

Coach Grey and Dutch Hengeveldt have combined forces, so the Wildcats are assured of capable coaching. Coach Dutch, who has
shown his ability along coaching lines by developing Pat Crawford, Warhoss Mauze, Nappy Davis, and other Wildcat stars, will probably
do most of the actual coaching. Coach Grey, as athletic director, will exercise general supervision. Manager John Adams is hard
at work on the schedule and a good one is assured. Thirteen games have already been arranged and several more
are being considered. Many will be disappointed to learn that the Wildcats do not meet Carolina. This has been caused
by Carolina’s refusal to meet Davidson on a home and home plan or to play the Wildcats on a neutral
floor. However, it is hoped that a game may be arranged in Raleigh on February 13. Efforts are also being
made to play P. C. on a neutral floor. The home schedule is by no means complete. It is possible,
in some cases probable, that Vanderbilt, Mercer, Florida, and Georgia will be seen on the local floor this season. Negotiations
are also being carried on with several Virginia universities and colleges for games here. The schedule as it stands at
present is as follows:

Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte, January 15.
Charlotte “Y” at Davidson, February 3.
Trinity at Charlotte, February 6.
N. C. State at Davidson, February 7.
Wofford at Davidson, February 8.
N. C. State at Raleigh, February 14.
Wake Forest at Wake Forest, February 15.
Elon at Elon, February 16.
Wake Forest at Davidson, February 20.
Clemson at Clemson, February 21.
Wofford at Spartanburg, February 22.
Furman at Greenville, February 23.
Elon at Davidson, March 3.

Henderson Auto Electric Co.
BATTERY REPAIRING and ACCESSORIES
Davidson, N. C.

J. L. McConnell
STAPLE and FANCY GROCERIES
DRY GOODS
CONFECTIONS
Davidson, N. C.

BANK OF DAVIDSON
OFFICERS:
JNO. L. DOUGLAS, President
J. LEE SLOAN, Vice-President
H. THOMPSON, Cashier
B. ELLIOTT, Asst. Cashier

“ELECTRIK-MAID” BAKE SHOP
—The Taste Tells—
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

L. R. SMITH
Groceries and Fruits
DAVIDSON, N. C.

H. M. JOHNSTON
Excellent Stock of Groceries
=YOUR PATRONAGE IS APPRECIATED=
DAVIDSON, N. C.
