o THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1922

HEATING PLANT TO ACCOMMODATE STUDENTS

At last the heating problem of Davidson is to be solved. The college is installing a new and up-to-date heating plant that can furnish heat to the whole campus. It should be completed and ready for use by the 20th of October. The plant is of the radial brickstack type and will be installed in the rear of Dormitory Row. The stack itself is 90 feet high. Only two boilers will be used at first, but the plant will have a capacity for four in case enlargement is desired. The new system is primarily for the two new dormitories, but will also take care of the barracks. The steam pipes are to be laid so that they can be connected to the old system in the rear of Georgia at any time. The boilers are at the depot now and weigh 22,000 pounds each. The college has 200 tons of coal on hand, so there is no reason why the students should not stay warm this winter.

STUDENT BIBLE CLASSES INAUGURATED BY Y. M. C. A.

On Wednesday night, September 20, the weekly Bible classes on each dormitory floor got under way with a good start. The average attendance at these classes was 12. The topic for study was taken from the first lesson in the pamphlet, “Facing Student Problems.” The greatest drawback at these meetings was the lack of teachers, so eight new teachers have been added to take care of the boys in new dormitories. Dr. Archibald Currie has kindly consented to conduct a normal class for the teachers once a week in Doctor Sentelle’s office.

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

EATS FOR THAT EMPTY FEELING
The Misses Schofields

RECREATION CENTERS TAXED TO CAPACITY

While football is holding the place of honor among activities at present, the other sports are not being neglected by the students. Every afternoon scores of scantily clad boys endeavor to build up their physical manhood and give the mentality a breathing spell. Tennis seems to be the favorite sport. Every court is filled soon after dinner and “ducks” secured for the ensuing hours. The prospective members of the team are getting in trim for the fall tournament: Bradley is the only letter man back but Fraser and H. M. Morris will be strong contestants. The outdoor gym is filled by coming strong men. The bars, rings, horses, and ladders are developing many shoulders and arms capable of bearing the burdens of the world in the future years. The gym and basketball floor has to be run on the system of “the losing team drops out.” Both afternoon and night it furnishes amusement and exercise to large numbers, especially to aspirants for class teams. Track men are to be seen every afternoon jogging around the cinder path trying to reduce their waistlines. The golf course will be in condition soon and will offer diversion for everyone. Every student in college has his choice from this selection of recreations and unless hindered by his work has no excuse for languishing away in his rooms on these sunshiny days.

STARTLING FACTS FROM FRESHMAN’S DIARY

[Editor's Note:—The following is an extract from a Freshman’s Diary, discovered unintentionally, Sept. 13, 1922—Davidson College.]

Now as I drowsily strove to shake off the effects of slumber this morning it occurred to me that the surrounding atmosphere being hazy and mystical in the extreme, blended remarkably with the nature of my nocturnal meditations, for I had in the night been troubled by unfathomable mystical dreams, phantasmagoric foreshadowings doubtless of what I was about to discover. As I traversed the campus I chanced upon an inexplicably brown and turbulent pillar of dust, and entering it I perceived that it was generated by a wagon freighted to the sky with chests and casks, and drawn by two stalwart mules. Surmounting the pyramid of luggage sat the muleteer, an individual of such remarkably beautiful physique as to shame Apollo, and whose countenance was made up of features of so delicate a mold as to preclude all possibility of any intellectual operation. Gazing into this visage radiant with supernatural splendor, I could not but exclaim for wonder, and stood astonished for the space of six minutes. Deeming that I desired to traffic with him the teamster checked his beasts with persuasive profanity, and demanded whether or no I would have my trunk hauled. So engaged in profound contemplation as to the probable ontogeny of the individual was I, that, as if in answer to his mercenary question, I asked him why he, a person of such remarkability should be engaged in the transportation of luggage. Seeing immediately that I was not as others, he ascended to my level at once and our interlocution was briefly as follows:

“Here, they call me Bill Joe.”
“Ah, yes” I ejaculated, “but you have not always been thus appellated?”
“Verily, I see that you are likewise a student of metempsychosis, a disciple of Pythagoras. You are exactly right. I have not been ever thus. I remember portions of various former existences. I remember striving victoriously in the arena to the thundering applause of the frenzied mob. In another incarnation I recall being the subject of vivisection for medical experimentation. During another span of life I was an explorer in the field of Chemical and Biological investigation myself. In another I was an artist. In yet another I was the favorite courtier of the realm, and again the son of a king. Thus it was through countless aeons, and as it all came to me in revelation in this existence, I saw that my soul had experienced all save servile labor, so in order to round out my existence to perfection, I determined to subject my flesh to such. Then might my spirit the more speedily be prepared for sublimation, and pass into the—”

Suddenly the wonderful discourse was interrupted and we descended to Davidson unceremoniously, as an ignorant freshman abruptly demanded whether or no the authorities had been notified concerning his missing trunk —Sept. 13, 1922.

RAG TIME NEWS

It will be learned with great joy by the denizens of East and West dormitories that the new heating plant will soon be completed, as this means that the single-armed serenading sapper shall soon stop singing. Enoch, Uncle Baxter, and Hoo John determined to hold an interjanitoreal oratorical contest, but were unable to come to terms concerning who should be the judges. Enoch was in favor of asking Doctor Shewmake to be one member of the decision committee but Hoo John objected on the grounds that he might expect them to express the burden of the inexpressible. Doctor Martin was suggested by Uncle Baxter but Enoch demanded that they have someone who would not roll sin as a sweet morsel under his tongue, or tie them up in a bundle of everlasting life. The Major was turned down because he could always recognize a lie. Doctor Lingle wouldn’t do, on general principles, and Doctor Porter was rejected chiefly through the influence of Enoch who believed that his rabbit’s foot would not have the least effect upon him.

A MERRY DRAMA

In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes.
By Ibsen Shaw Milne.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll,his room-mate and a no less prominent junior; in matters of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Second. REST.

Mack—(closing book) I crave rest, slumber, sleep, whatever you might want to call it.

Bill—(looking up from his Clarke) Now I wouldn't do that—the lights aren’t out yet.

Mack—And why should I wait until the lights are out?

Bill—Hope you don’t propose to expose those bundles of rags, that once upon a time might have been pajamas, to the pitiless light of publicity.

Mack—It’s none of your business—yet come to think of it, I do need some new ones. Have been looking for some but can’t find any to suit me. Either they are some thin flimsy silky stuff that won’t wear or else they are made of croker sacking so rough that a Fresh couldn't sleep in ’em.

Bill—Calm down a minute old man, and I'll a tale unfold that should bring joy to your soul. They’re making a pajama now out of Fruit of the Loom—yes the same old cloth that mother used to use—and in all of the wanted colors as well as white.

Mack—Where did you see them?

Bill—Shorty has a couple of ’em. Got ‘em from Mellon’s. Said they cost him three bucks a pair but take it from me they are worth it. Soft as silk but tough as whit-leather.

Mack—Think that I’ll look ’em up when we hit Charlotte Monday. Say, that’s some trip Charlotte's giving us, isn’t it?

Bill—Sure thing. And Shorty said that the clerk around at Mellon’s said that they hoped that we would make it our headquarters while over there. Said that they'd be only too glad to do anything they could for us.

Mack—Well, that’s only natural—they’ve been Davidson’s supporters since “the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.”—(adv). (To be continued next week).

Sink or Float

If you throw a stone into a pond, it will sink. Follow it with another stone and that will sink. But if you throw a third stone into the pond and tie a cork to it, it will not sink. This merely illustrates the law of suspended objects, discovered by man, overcoming the law of gravitation, made by God. Now, we all, like stones, are thrown into the great pond of human life. Some of us sink to the bottom; others seem to be attached to corks that keep us from sinking. Some of those with a tendency to sink, through the co-operation of their fellows learn to resist the power that is pulling them down; others adhere to corks as they are sinking and gradually rise. Work and thought are two corks that will keep the heaviest human stone from sinking. If you feel yourself going down, work and think and you will soon rise to the surface.

Author Unknown.

REGISTRATION STATISTICS MADE PUBLIC

The year 1922-23 seems to be in truth the beginning of a new day and the dawning of a new era for old Davidson. Never before has Davidson had such an enrollment as this year. A report from the college registration office shows that an even 550 students have matriculated to date. Last year 512 was the highest total reached. In that total was counted the students who entered at the beginning of the second term. New students who come in at the beginning of the second term this year, will in all probability, add some 15 or 20 to the total.

A report from the administration offices shows, that of this year’s student body 94 men are candidates for the ministry, 81 are preparing for a profession, 75 are studying medicine, 33 are law students, 29 are taking engineering courses and 12 are preparing to teach. The number of students who have already decided upon some life work far exceeds that of any previous year. As to the number of students who are church members, Davidson no doubt still holds the percentage record among colleges and universities of the South, possibly of the whole country, 99 1-2 per cent of the entire student body being members of some church. We find that there is enrolled: 456 Presbyterians, 15 Baptists, 44 Methodists, 9 A.R.P., 6 Episcopalians, and 4 Lutherans.

ARTIST ALUMNUS HAS CHOSEN THE MINISTRY

A very interesting and a very commendable change of vocation was manifested in the announcement that McKendree Robbins Long of Statesville, an artist of national renown, had decided to abandon the field of art as his life work, and take up the ministry. Mr. Long is one of America’s most eminent artists. He studied in American schools, and traveled abroad, all the while studying his chosen profession in the largest art galleries of Europe under great European masters. Later, on his return, he taught art in Los Angeles, Cal., and has since taken great interest in the various art movements of the South. Many of his artistic productions adorn the walls of the Supreme Courtroom in Raleigh and many other prominent places in the state.

Mr. Long is voluntarily and willingly giving up and casting aside his wonderful talents in the field of art, in order that he may throw his whole life and talents into the preaching of God’s word. His work will be in connection with the Presbyterian Church. There are not words enough to panegyrize the glory of this man. What a wonderful mark of true love he has both for humanity and for his God that a man will willingly lay down all earthly fame and glory which might have afforded him to sit with kings and princes, and enter a work of this kind. But if this man is big enough and broad enough to do a thing of this kind he cannot be downed. He is in himself a bulwark of strength; he is impregnable, and he will rise and continue to rise into those realms of sublimity and greatness not alone in this life and in the affairs of this world, but that life which is to come. Therein is where true greatness lies.

Remember this: that they who will not be counselled cannot be helped. If you do not hear Reason she will surely rap your knuckles.—Benjamin Franklin.

Energy and persistence conquer all things.—Benjamin Franklin.

Sloth makes all things difficult, but industry all things easy.—Benjamin Franklin.

To be thrown upon one’s own resources is to be cast into the very lap of fortune.—Benjamin Franklin.

Few men can really aim accurately with a hammer—they generally get it on the thumb sooner or later.

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.

COMING!

The Steven-Shepherd Co. of University, Va. to Georgia Thursday the 28th. They will show a complete and exclusive line of Haberdashery, etc. The line will be the same as shown at Virginia, Princeton and other of the large Eastern universities. It is a line created especially for the college man.

“CHINK” WOODS
Davidson Representative

PIANOS

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE
CLAUDE LEE, Manager

MONDAY, 2nd
TUESDAY, 3rd
WEDNESDAY, 4th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director
OVERTURE—Fett Mahl
PATHE NEWS AND HAROLD LLOYD COMEDY
The Academy Orchestra
Selection—“My Golden Girl.”
SANKUS AND SILVERS
Original Trot Rhythmists
THREE HAMIL SISTERS
Gabby, Clarette and Simonne
“Those Three Misses”
RUDELL AND DUNIGAN
in “Revuettes”
FRED JOE FAY AND JACK ELKINS
Mirth, Melody and Syncopation
“LISTEN LESTER”
A cast of six in the Harry L. Cort Production.
A big feature attraction with musical interruptions.

CHARLOTTE