THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 20, 1922.

LITERARY NEWS —

PANDEINIC SOCIETY PICKS NAME AND PRESSES AHEAD

The new Pandeinic Literary Society held its usual meeting on January 12th. Several interesting features marked this meeting. The first
of these was the choosing of the name, Pandeinic, which means all-skillful. R. R. McIlwaine opened the program with an
enlightening oration on the subject of “Memory.” Then the arguments of W. H. Moore and V. C. Hoye were pitted
in debate against those of W. T. Baker and H. L. Currie. Their subject was, “The Government Ownership of Mines.”
The next interesting feature was the presentation of Current Events by W. W. Moore. D. B. Walthall then gave a
very good declamation, “John Adams on the Revolutionary War.” The whole program was a very interesting one. The next meeting
of the Pandeinics will be held on February 2nd, to give time for study on exams and reviews. All Freshmen
who expect to join the new society are to give their names to Coach Moore.

METROPHILIAN SPEAKERS FLARE FORTH ELOQUENTLY

At the last meeting of the Metrophilian Society the query for debate was, “Resolved, That the Federal Government should own
and operate the coal mines, United States constitutionality waived.” W. G. Thomas and W. H. Matheson proved, for the affirmative,
the advantage of having the government own and operate such a vital factor in American industry as the coal mines.
P. C. Henderson and Guiton upheld the negative. Following the debates, A. C. Ray gave a declamation on “The Training
Camp of the Future,” and R. P. Brown an oration on “The Average College Student of Today.” The society is
planning a mock trial for Thursday, the 10th. A Mr. McIver is the defendant, charged with manslaughter caused by his
reckless driving. Regular court procedure will take place.

EUMENEANS HAVE A HEATED DEBATE ON OWNING MINES

The liveliest program in many weeks was enjoyed by the Eumeneans last Thursday night. A heated oratorical contest ensued, the
subject of the debate being, “Resolved, That the Government Should Own and Operate the Coal Mines.” The affirmative was supported
by Elliott, Ted Jones, and Gus Summers, while the negative was argued by Sharpe, Luckie, and Henry Morris. The affirmative
won by unanimous vote of the judges, while the house voted negative on the merits of the question. Following the
debate, D. B. Walthall favored the house with a declamation, and D. L. Mahood delivered a very interesting and educational
oration on “Washington,” paying a noble tribute to our capital city. The announcement of “No Report” by the vice-president brought
considerable applause, after which the meeting adjourned.

EUMENEANS AND PANDEINICS CHOOSE JUNIOR-SENIOR MEN

The joint preliminaries of the Eumenean and Pandeinic Societies for the Junior-Senior debate, held in the Eu hall on the
evening of January 10th, resulted in the selection of Dunbar Ogden and Henry Patterson, of the Eumenean, and Wilson Moore,
of the Pandeinic, as principals, with Henry Morris, of the Eumenean, as alternate. The subject was, “Resolved, That the United
States Government should at once grant complete autonomy to the Philippines.” The debate was hotly contested and it was with
much difficulty that the judges, Professors Porter, Wood, and Pettingill, succeeded in selecting the above team. The medal in the
finals is to be given jointly by these two societies. The preliminaries of the Philanthropic and Metrophilian Societies were held
before Christmas. The Junior-Senior finals between the men chosen from the four societies will be held soon after exams.

NEW HISTORY OF THE U.S. AND OTHER BOOKS RECEIVED

The fifth volume of Channing’s “History of the United States,” which has just been issued, can be found at the
Library now. Among the other books catalogued this week are: Selected Poems, by Robinson; Quiny by Alice Hegan Rice; The
Southern Highlander and His Homeland, by Campbell; Life of Inland Waters, by Needham and Lloyd; and The Gospel of the
Hereafter, by J. Patterson Smyth. All these books are now at the disposal of the students and it is hoped
they will be made useful. Those students who have as yet not used the Library much may find it well
worth their time to become acquainted with it this spring.

GLEE CLUB PREPARING FOR EXTENSIVE SPRING TRIPS

Although the Glee Club has been more or less inactive since Thanksgiving, Manager R. L. McLeod has been busy planning
the spring work. The club will start practice immediately after examinations on a practically new program. An extensive trip to
some of our leading Southern cities and several women’s colleges is planned. It is hoped that this trip will materialize
by the middle of March, but the plans are not yet definitely made.

MILITARY LABORATORY IS SET UP BY R. O. T. C. MEN

A military laboratory has been set up in one of the large rooms in the gymnasium. This will be open
from time to time for public inspection. The military instructors have placed there several of the infantry weapons with large
charts explaining the parts and their use. Maps on paper, tactical maps in relief, and terrain constructed on the sand
table are to be seen. There are other things that would make a visit to this room well worth one’s
time. In practical work much is being accomplished. The Seniors are making military sketches of a part of the golf
course. A small piece of terrain is being thoroughly covered, to master the fine points of sketching. The Juniors and
Sophomores are doing the most warlike work. The Juniors are learning by actual practice the art of placing machine guns.
They are placing them not only in emplacements on the ground but also in nests in trees. Then the guns
are being camouflaged. Wire entanglements, obstacles, and revetment models have been constructed. The Browning automatic rifle is the subject of
the Sophomore work at present. The use, name, and place of every part is being taught with the actual rifle
in the hands of the students. They are acquainted with the shape, size, and place of every piece ordinarily taken
apart, away from the factory. The tactical use, range, and kinds of fire are also being taught. The Freshmen are
being thoroughly instructed in close order drill by companies on two days and battalion close order drill one day each
week.

BUSINESS PSYCHOLOGY (Continued from page 1)

experience in testing psychology in a practical way. He was very successful as a salesman, using psychology to induce his
prospective buyer to give him the order. The psychology of advertising will deal with the wording and coloring of ads
in detail. That of salesmanship will cover the manner of approaching a prospective buyer, the psychological moment of introducing the
salesman’s line, and other helpful points. This class will consist of about one hundred members and will meet probably on
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Friday nights.

Miss Mary Black spent the weekend at Barium Springs.

Court Gossip

Davidson 44, Charlotte “Y” 22

Tearing through the Queen City Triangle in regular big-time fashion, our undomesticated crimson and ebony animals went completely wild, in
a manner highly pleasing to everyone—not from Charlotte.

—Go Get ’Em, Wildcats—

Roxy Ormond dumped in seven buckets for a total of fourteen points and collected high point honors for the evening.
Someone is going to have to work to keep this little scrapper off the team.

—Fifteen for Coach—

Did you see that million-dollar smile on Coach after the game? Atta boy, Dutch!

—Good Work, Fresh—

Several Freshmen showed up well, three of the green ones getting into the game. Mallory started at forward and looked
good, garnering ten counters. Beall and Boggs also got into the game as subs.

—Some Speed—

Such a brand of lightning passing and aggressive teamwork as that put out by the Wildcat quint has not been
seen since the days of '17-'18, when the Hengeveld-King combination held forth.

—Try Chesterfields, Pat—

Captain Pat Crawford has started this season just as he closed the last—the niftiest little guard in the state. We
claim that four beauties from mid-floor isdoing pretty well for a guard, but Cap isn’t satisfied. —Hip! Hip! Who!! for
Warhoss— “Ole Warhoss” Mauze played his usual good aerial game and stayed on the floor long enough to chip in
with six counters. He and Cap Pat had a tricky little pass that seemed to give the Queen City lads
a lot of trouble. —Frock ’Em, Junebug— The close guarding of Price was largely responsible for the Charlotteans’ low score.
Junebug also helped out with a nice basket.

MINISTERIAL CANDIDATES HAVE SEARCHING MEETING

The Ministerial Band met at the regular hour last Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. After singing a song, Taylor, Johnson,
and Knight led in prayer. Then the business matters were taken up and discussed, after which Patterson gave a short
speech, in which he outlined some plans for the spring term. The meeting was then thrown open for anyone to
discuss their own personal life on the campus, and to formulate plans whereby the student body life might be uplifted.
Among those who gave splendid talks along this line were Patterson, Baker, Taylor, Ogden, and Johnson. In these speeches new
and better standards were set, whereby the members of the band might live the kind of life that a ministerial
candidate should live. At the same time, certain ways of making the spiritual life on the campus better were discussed.

Everyone joined heartily in singing a song, after which Dwight Chalmers closed the meeting with a short prayer. The entire
meeting was thoroughly heart-searching and inspirational.

MANY BRAVE MUD TO GET TO THE RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Due to muddy roads, perhaps, some of the Sunday Schools did not show up so well, while others had good
attendance. Following is the report of last Sunday:

School and Supt. Pupils. Tchrs.
Oak Grove—Cooper -------- 15 4
Mill Chapel—Mr. Jackson__ 47 4
Caldwell—No S. S. held.
Cornelius—Clark ----------- 79 5
Shearer—McIlwaine -------- 38 7
Brawley’s—McKeithen ------ 37 4

BOOKS BY DR. SHEARER. (Continued from page 1)

six for $1.25. See E. H. Tufts at the commissary. To outsiders, a single copy will be mailed postpaid for
forty cents, or in sets of six (one copy of each of the above) for $2.00, postpaid. Address E. H.
Tufts, Davidson, N. C. No one should let this opportunity to add such valuable books to his library go by
unheeded.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

CHINA IS SUBJECT THIS WEEK IN MISSION STUDY

China was the topic for discussion this week in the mission study classes. All of the stations and workers in
each were studied Wednesday night. The study was especially interesting because of the part that China has been playing in
world affairs and of her present position in the political and social world. Thus far twenty classes have been formed.
Classes off the campus are being formed at the following places: Louisiana, Cranford’s, Proctor’s, Smith’s, Brady’s, White’s, and the Hotel.
Hereafter the leaders’ meeting will be held at 9:30 o’clock on Monday nights, instead of 7:30 o’clock. Next week’s study
will be centered on Korea and should prove to be equally as interesting as the present week's study. Because of
her position and historical growth, Korea has been fittingly called the Ireland of China. Japan’s growth and civilization have been
largely due to the influence of little Korea. Despite this fact, however, Korea must have the helping hand of Christianity.

SOME FACTS ABOUT CHINA ARE GIVEN BY R. BITZER

The Chinese constitute the largest homogeneous mass in the world’s history, numbering more than one-fourth of the population of the
globe. They occupy, next to Russia, the largest contiguous territory in the world. More than this, China is growing at
such a rate that by the end of the century she will probably have eight hundred million inhabitants instead of
her present four hundred and twenty-seven million. The Chinese are emigrating by the millions each year into Manchuria, Malaysia, and
other adjacent countries. China has, with the possible exception of Africa, the largest undeveloped natural resources in the world. She
has hard and soft coal in every province, yet 138 Chinese use only as much coal as is used to
supply one American in a year. The Yangtse-Kiang (where the Southern Presbyterian missionaries are) has as great potential water-power as
the Mississippi and all the rivers of the Atlantic seaboard combined—From the Interchurch World Movement Survey.

FORTY MINISTERIAL BAND MEN MAKE PLANS AT FEED

Fun, eats, jokes, comradeship, talks, and inspiration were a few of the outstanding features of the splendid Ministerial Band feed
after the movies on last Saturday night. The purpose of the feed was to get together for fun and fellowship
and to plan for the new year. As soon as everyone had eaten all he could hold, and was feeling
good, jokes became in order, some good ones being pulled off by Rifle-Rest Clark, Dwight Chalmers, Arnett Gamble, and others.
The new chairman of each committee outlined his respective plans and hopes for the coming spring. Then random talks on
any subject started, and many of them showed real thought and interest in the band. Last of all, it was
decided by a unanimous vote that everybody would call everybody else in the band by their first names.

VOLUNTEER BAND MEMBERS HEAR DEPUTATION REPORTS

The Volunteers had a good number present and a varied and interesting program was presented at their Sunday morning meeting.
Wildman, the leader of the meeting, conducted the devotional exercises. He used Paul’s words, “Let us not be weary in
well doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not.” He told of the helpfulness of keeping
these words in mind when one’s work becomes discouraging and everything seems to be going wrong. The foreign work must
needs be disappointing at times and he urged the use of prayer and God’s Word as a means toward keeping
a bright outlook on life. J. C. Wool made a talk on Hangchow Christian College in China. It was packed
full of valuable thoughts and contained some fine points in favor of Christian education in heathen lands. He told of
the immediate need of several college graduates to go to this college for three years with the opportunity of continuing
there if the work proved appealing. Coach Moore told of a deputation he made with Dwight Chalmers to Charlotte Friday
and he was very enthusiastic over this means of presenting the foreign field to young people in high schools. Rolston
Bitzer told of a similar deputation to Concord last week. Moss had a number of pamphlets dealing with different subjects
of Christian work which proved interesting to those who looked them over. It was announced that at the meetings every
Sunday morning the program would include that foreign country which was being studied in the weekly mission classes conducted in
the dormitories by the “Y” leaders, and that this service, at 10 o’clock, would be an open one to all
interested in such studies.

The Civic League at its regular meeting Monday evening held a special program on the Woodrow Wilson Foundation. The installation
of new officers took place. They are: President, Mrs. C. H. Hamilton; vice-president, Mrs. T. W. Lingle; secretary, Mrs. R.
W. Shelton; treasurer, Miss Lizzie Young.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A. G. BRENIZER, President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
R. A. DUNN, Vice-President
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. We guarantee title, principal, and interest.

SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO.
W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
18 E. Trade St.

EQUIPMENT FOR EVERY SPORT

Fall Sports
Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Gymnasium Outfitting. Physical Directors and Coaches fully realize the importance of correct equipment. Our goods are the
Spalding, Reach, and Wright & Ditson. You know them.

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
A. L. FAUL, Mgr.
Phone 902
