SOME TEAM, EH, BOYS? THE DAVIDSONIAN KRAM! KRAM! KRAM! FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 20, 1922. No. 17

Man’s Responsibility to Posterity is “Y” Subject
Professor Fleagle Gives Striking Presentation of Important Subject.

Man’s personal responsibility to his posterity proved to be an interesting subject for discussion at the “Y” service last Sunday. Prof. F. K. Fleagle competently discussed this subject by drawing lessons from four family histories. The generally accepted theory that a person is at liberty to do what he pleases provided he is willing to take the consequences of his actions on himself was shattered.

The first family discussed was the Jukes, descended from a restless, worthless, wild, lazy, vulgar person who was born in New York in 1720. Among his twelve hundred descendants, none of whom had even a common school education, were 310 professional paupers, 60 thieves, and seventy murderers. During 150 years they cost the state of New York $1,250,000.

In contrast with this record is that of Jonathan Edwards, born in New England in 1703 of high parentage, who became a missionary and president of Princeton. Of his fourteen hundred descendants, 285 were college graduates, thirteen college presidents, one hundred clergymen, one hundred lawyers, sixty authors, three senators, and one U. S. vice-president.

Lest the difference in the environments of these two families be given as the reason for such records, the history of two branches of the Kallikak family were given as follows:

Illegitimate branch - Legitimate branch
480 Descendants - 406 Descendants
46 Normal - 496 Normal
143 Feeble Minded - 46 Feeble Minded
46 Alcoholics - 2 Alcoholics
3 Epileptics - 0 Epileptics
82 Deaths in Infancy - 13 Deaths in Infancy
3 Criminals - 0 Criminals

Such facts as the above unquestionably prove that everyone is not only responsible to himself for his actions, but that it is impossible to avoid the responsibility to his descendants.

The talk was thoroughly enjoyable and beneficial to all who heard it. This was the first time Professor Fleagle has addressed the “Y,” but it is strongly hoped that it will not be his last time. The service was in charge of Mac Richards. As usual, the musical side of the program was excellent. The quartet, Sorrels, Allison, Buchanan, and Crane, impressively sang “My Son, Give Me Thy Heart.”

Miss Margaret Fewell, of Dallas, Tex., is spending a few days with Miss Margaret Adams.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS
Make that 85, Seniors! Juniors, Sophs and Freshmen, get that lamp and oil ready. Professors, put on your armour.

PICTURES OF STUDENT BODY AND FACULTY TAKEN MONDAY
The Moon photographers of Charlotte were on the hill Monday morning to complete the group pictures for the annual and to take the student body picture. The picture of the student body was taken immediately after chapel, in front of the library and the other group pictures, including the faculty, the A. E. F., the literary societies, and the Senior football team, were taken shortly thereafter. The faculty picture was taken while the student body rendered “That Good Old Ship of Zion,” causing additional smiles to appear on the faces of the faculty. Mr. Moon had the proofs here Monday afternoon to receive orders.

Books By Dr. Shearer to Be Sold By Davidson “Y”
Books Are Being Offered to Students and People Outside.

Every man who ever came to Davidson either knew or knows of Dr. Shearer. They also know that he wrote and published a number of books, all bearing on the Bible and Bible study. When he died he left something over two thousand volumes of these books to the college. The Y. M. C. A. has them and wishes to put them on sale at very reasonable and attractive prices, the proceeds going to the Y. M. C. A. now. Every student in college should have a set of these books in his library, therefore a special price is going to be made to them.

The following is a list of the books on hand:
Prayer Meeting Papers.
Hebrew Institutions, Social and Civil.
Studies in the Life of Christ.
The Scriptures: and Features.
One Hundred Brief Bible Studies.
Selected Old Testament Studies.
Fundamental Facts.

To the students at Davidson, any one of the above volumes may be purchased for twenty-five cents, or the full set of

Redpath Artists Were On Hill Last Monday Night
(Continued on page 2)

Harold Proctor and Supporting Musicians Gave Good Bill.

On last Monday night the Redpath Lyceum presented Harold Proctor and supporting artists in Shearer Hall at 7:30. Mr. Proctor’s company consisted of Miss Rees, violinist, and Miss Everett, pianist.

Before presenting his first selection Mr. Proctor announced that his songs would all be presented in the clearest American English. And he did exactly as he had announced, every word being distinct.

Mr. Proctor’s first selection was a sacred Oratorio by Mendelssohn. This was followed by a more martial song with more lively time called “The Queen of Sheba.” Miss Rees next presented two violin selections which were very well received. The accompaniment of Miss Everett both for Mr. Proctor and for Miss Rees was excellent.

Mr. Proctor next presented four more (Continued on page 3)

Assist Wilson Foundation
Professor Currie’s Talk and Committee Canvass Last Monday.

The campaign for the Woodrow Wilson Foundation was launched here last Monday by Prof. A. Currie who made a short talk setting forth the purpose of this foundation. The national plan provided for one million dollars to be raised in the United States between the hours of 12:00 and 1:00 o'clock on Monday. The income from this sum will constitute a prize which will be given each year to the person who has done the most service to humanity and to public life during the year. The winner will be chosen by Mr. Wilson during his lifetime. Mrs. Josephus Daniels is in charge of the campaign for the State of North Carolina, which has a quota of $35,000. The quota for Mecklenburg county is $5,000.

A committee was appointed to canvass the student body and faculty and it was hoped that every member would contribute something to the fund in honor of one of our old students who has acquired world renown. No report of the canvass was available when the paper went to press.

Basketball Scrubs Swamp Huntersville “Y” Players
Young Wildcats Pile Up Score of 61-14 Against Opponents.

The Huntersville “Y” gym was the scene of a battle Saturday night in which the Wildcat scrubs won over their heavier opponents by the score of 61-14. It was the scrubs' game from beginning to end.

The passing and shooting of the Wildkittens completely bewildered the larger quintet and before the first half was over they had rolled up a large enough score to win the game. The bulk of the score was made in the latter part of the game when the superior staying power of the collegians proved too much for the “Y.” Hunter led his teammates in scoring, securing seven field goals, while the defensive work of Ballardand Morrison was of a stellar variety. The whole team played exceptionally well for their first game, and gainsay that Scrubs are worthy of their salt.

JIM HENDRIX IS CHOSEN AS PRESIDENT FRESHMAN CLASS

Pleasants and Millhouse Named Vice-President and Secretary.

On the night of the 4th of January, the Freshman class elected their officers. After a brief talk by Student President Lowry, the names of the men selected to run for the presidency were written on the board and the race began. The men whose names appeared were: Jim Pleasants, Hendrix, Robins, A. C. Brown, McAlister, and Regen. After three ballots Hendrix was elected. Jim Pleasants was elected vice-president, and Millhouse was chosen as Secretary and treasurer.

There are those whose purpose is to sniff at mere ideals and principles, who call themselves practical, and who regard the center of human life to be of meat and drink and money. —Dr. Frank Crane.

Davidson Men Organize to ANNUAL BUSINESS MANAGER IS SEEKING $3.00 PER MAN.

The business manager of Quips and Cranks, W. I. Knox, has now started on his campaign for raising funds. The campaign for advertisements has been launched and primary indications are for the best results. The campaign is well under way for the collection of the extra $3.00 per man, of the student body, which will allow for the printing of a better book. Considering all things, from the business side, they are going, but it is sincerely hoped that the student body will respond readily when called upon for the extra amount.

The Ladies Missionary Society of the Methodist Church entertained at the home of Mrs. Goodrum last Thursday, with an apron party. Delicious refreshments were served to a large gathering.

Business Psychology Will Be Taught in 2nd Term

Doctor Hood to Give Interesting Course in Mental Power.

Doctor Hood's new course in Business Psychology will start with the beginning of the next semester. The first half of the semester will be devoted to the psychology of salesmanship, the latter half to the psychology of advertising. Doctor Hood is writing a book on business psychology for a large firm in Philadelphia and will deliver lectures to the class from this book. Last fall Doctor Hood delivered several very interesting lectures on the psychology of salesmanship, under the auspices of the Salesmanship Club. Much interest was shown at the time and after receiving numerous requests to develop a course in this science, Doctor Hood gladly decided to do so. Another manifestation of interest by the students after hearing these lectures, was the ever-increasing and everlasting visits of miniature salesmen in the dormitories representing anything from straight pins to six-foot pennants, from ribless socks to the latest styles in haircuts and automatic pressers. Doctor Hood is not only a psychologist of much note and a teacher of great ability, but has had several years’ experience.

(Continued on page 2)

Local “Y” Plans For Large Number of Deputations

Teams to Be Sent to Many Prep and High Schools of State.

The Y. M. C. A. is opening the new year with brighter prospects in view with regard to deputation work than ever before. High schools at the following points have either been written to or will be written to in the near future with reference to the sending of deputations: Monroe, Shelby, Concord, Salisbury, Lexington, High Point, Winston-Salem, and Rock Hill. In addition to these, three prep schools, Oak Ridge, Blue Ridge, and Westminster, have also been written to. A deputation was sent to Charlotte last Sunday and in compliance with the wishes expressed by that city one will be sent there each month. An invitation has been received from Concord to open a campaign there which will last from February 5th to the 10th. The team from Davidson will speak on the two opening days. Shelby and Rock Hill have also expressed interest.

(Continued on page 3)

Wildcat Basketeers Open With Win Over Charlotte

Score of 44-22 Piled Up Against Queen City Five.

The champions of North Carolina basket tossers, Charlotte “Y," met overwhelming defeat Saturday night when they essayed to conquer the Wildcat quintet. Bursting forth upon their opponents in a storm of speed and lightning passing which it was impossible to stop, the rout of the Queen City lads was not completed until the whistle blew, 44-22. In the game, and with but one of last year’s men, Pat Crawford, back, the supporters of the Red and Black were somewhat doubtful of what would be the outcome of a clash with a team that the week before had defeated the Durham “Y." After the first play all doubt vanished. Through the maze of players the ball flashed back and forth with the accuracy that was given only by trained hands. Suddenly the ball left the hands of Ormond and dropped into its nest. Once more the ball was tossed up at center and the result was the same. At the end of the first half the score was 20-7 against the Charlotte lads. Not once in the whole game did the Queen City lads threaten to win, not a single time was their playing said to equal that of the Presbyterians. It is impossible to not note here the difference which everyone noticed between this year’s team and that of the year that has passed. There is no starry playing, no one who tries to be the outstanding light in this year’s quintet. All seem to work together as an ideal team, in fact. It is that team work that counts. Individual stars may toss a few baskets, but after all it is that feeling of a common motive—of all working as one that wins praise and games—and we've got that kind of a team this year. ALL praise to the man who is able to develop a team like that—and Coach Hengeveld has done it. Here's to you, Coach!

Summary

Davidson. Charlotte.
Position.
Mallory (10) Right Forward
Ormond (14) McMillan (6) Left Forward
Howell (4) Center
Price (2) Cuthbertson (10) (C) Left Guard
Crawford (C) (8) Cunningham (0) Right Guard

Substitutions
Whorrell (0) Irvin (0)
Hertke (0) Menon (0)

(Continued on page 3)

WHAT'S DOING.

Thursday—6:45 p.m., Phi Society.
Saturday—7:30 p.m., Movies.
7:00 p.m., Eu. Society.
Sunday—10:00 a.m., Volunteer Band.
9:00 a.m., C. E. Training Class.
1:00 p.m., Ministerial Band.
4:30 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
6:15 p.m., “Y” Vesper Service.
Monday—9:30 p.m., Teacher Training Class.
Wednesday—9:00 p.m., Mission Study Classes.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle is visiting her sister, Mrs. Craig, in New York City.

KEEP QUIET! REMEMBER THE OTHER FELLOW!