EXTRA! ON TO CEMETERY RIDGE -TueD WARFARE IS BEGUN AVI EXTRA! IG ATTLE’S EGUN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 28, 1922. NO. 30.

Reorganization of Blues Under Cover of Darkness
Blue Armies Advance Though Shot to Pieces, Say Advices From the Front.

BY J. CAESAR WELLINGTON
(The Davidsonian’s Special Correspondent with the Blue Forces in the field).

Blue Headquarters—Somewhere on the Golf Course, April 26, 1922—As night falls the tired remnants of the First Blue Army are engaged in organizing the many metres of newly occupied terrain. Fearfully shot to pieces, due to the incompetency of the officers and their own rashness, the broken ranks are wielding pick and shovel in a desperate attempt to entrench against the expected counterattack. Reinforcements are on the way but will they reach the sorely beleaguered First in time? That is the question on the lips of all of the higher officers.

With most excellent spirit the Blue waves moved to the attack. The fearful gaps caused by the Red machine guns were quickly filled and the thin Blue lines moved forward as if on parade. Indeed the very eagerness of the men was the cause of many casualties—they needlessly exposed themselves time and again. It must be recounted that no small part of the blame for the severe losses be placed on the heads of incompetent officers and the failure of the Blue communication system. Men were pushed forward to what was certain death, men were left in exposed positions when shelter was near at hand, there was entirely too much hurry—considering the inadequacy of the communications.

As well as can be learned the purpose of the day’s fighting was to drive the Reds from their strong position on Cemetery Ridge, just north of Hoyt’s Valley. Whether that purpose was accomplished or not cannot be accurately determined as yet—the Red lines were penetrated, his forces and positions were heavily shelled, but to what extent? It will be another 24 hours before the answer is known. Rumors have it that he is retreating to the northeast.

The First Blue Army Corps, under Major General Phillips was the only corps engaged in the fight. “B” Brigade, under Brigadier General Lowry, held the Blue right; “C” Brigade, under that fiery little Scotchman, General McIlwaine, held the left; the old reliable “D,” under the redoubtable Miller, was held in reserve.

The wounded in the hospitals, the in- (Continued on page 6)

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

Sherman Was Right

But to square accounts it must be recounted that no small part of the blame for the severe losses be placed on the heads of incompetent officers and the failure of the Blue communication system. Men were pushed forward to what was certain death, men were left in exposed positions when shelter was near at hand, there was entirely too much hurry—considering the inadequacy of the communications.

Red Proves Blue Troops a Scene of Terrible Encounter

MEN AND EVENTS IN THE DAY’S FIGHTING
(Special Correspondence to The Davidsonian.)

The Leader of the Blue Left.
Brigadier General McIlwaine, who commanded the Blue left in yesterday's assault on Cemetery Ridge, is in many respects a man of contrasting characteristics. To the casual observer he looks the scholarly soldier—impeccable spectacles surmount the aquiline nose; perfectly fitted puttees grace his nether extremities; he is quiet, unassuming. But see him when the bullets begin to whistle—his eyes shine, his knees quake, his heart beats, tersely he snaps out orders; it is then that the fire implanted deep down in his bosom from a long line of fighting Scotch ancestors leaps forth. So it is that his men idolized him and began to call him “Uncle Mac,” soon corrupted into “Nuncle,” by which sobriquet he is now known throughout the service.

A Pitiful Tale.
Survivors of the assault waves of “D” Brigade tell a most pitiful story. Again someone blundered—and the lives of brave men were to pay. The assault waves had just passed over the crest just south of Hoyt’s Creek when they were held up by a murderous machine gun and rifle fire from the enemy posted on the nether bank. Safety was near at hand, behind the crest that they had just passed over, yet they were held on the forward slope—to suffer and to die. Someone had blundered.

In Reserve.
Yesterday was certainly a trying day for Miller and his boys of “D.” Held in reserve until the last minute and then only a short brush with the enemy. Miller—“Prepared Death” Miller—the great exponent of war as it used to be fought, a thing of cursing, sweating men, of dashing cavalry, of cold steel, of the inexorable, eternal advance—in reserve! It galled him. His men chafed under the enforced inaction. But when at last they were unleashed on the wretched Reds the bloody intent with which they (Continued on page 6)

Analysis of Yesterday’s Red and Blue Contest
Two Armies Clash in Hoyt’s Valley. Casualties Heavy Is the Report.

BY A. SIMONDS REPINGTON.
(Note — The daily articles by A. Simonds Repington, the distinguished Patagonian military critic, are published in The Davidsonian by special arrangement with The International War Correspondence Service, Inc. They are not fully protected by copyright).

In a review of yesterday's fighting between the Red and Blue forces, we need give our attention only to the Hoyt's Valley front. Along no other sector was there any considerable activity. A very cursory perusal of the official communique reveals the fact that there was no decided advantage for either side at the (Continued on page 2)

* * * * * * * * * * *
WE SEE FROM THURSDAY’S BATTLE—
By Maj. T. G. Hearn.
1. That patrols are not for warring only but also for delaying the enemy.
2. That you cannot be closer than20 yards when shot at with a blank.
3. That newly trained troops will charge you with bayonets if you do not retreat—on maneuver.
4. That you should not deploy facing east when the enemy is to the north.
5. That you should not emerge from dense woods in section columns.
6. That one should not delay the use of supports when it is certain that no advance can be made without them.
7. That one should not advance over cultivated ground or over another’s truck garden—in maneuvers.
8. That one should fire his blanks at the enemy—on maneuver.

BEHIND THE LINES WITH A RED REPORTER
(By Special Reporter to The Davidsonian).

The Hoyt Valley Red Line.
The fighting along the Hoyt Valley section continues to be the most severe which has yet taken place on the Davidson-Grey Farm front. Hill 792 was yesterday the object of attack by the Blue forces advancing from Concord Road. The Blues outnumbered the Reds three to one; the latter took this occasion to stage a most strategic withdrawal from their six hundred yard position in front of Hill 792.

Morale of Red Troops.
When the bugler sounded the assembly on Thursday afternoon not a man of Company A, Army of the Reds, was missing; every face was eager and every eye sparkled; for these veteran troops knew that they were again to see action in the front line trenches. Major General Richards gave a few words of encouragement to his men, a few short orders and the whole body of troops commenced the march to take their places along the Davidson-Grey Farm front. Here as defenders of Hill 792 they knew they were to meet the shell and gas of opposing Blues, but not a man showed a sign of fear. If the folks back home could see the way these noble lads risk their all to hold that “thin Red line” against the terrific onslaught of the Hun-like Blues, no one would doubt that success must attend their sacrifice of blood and life itself.

RICHARDS IS DISTINGUISHED.
As a result of the military genius exhibited by Major General Richards in his brilliant defense of Hill 792 it is rumored that he is to be presented with the Distinguished Service Cross and is to receive promotion in the next few days. This rumor has not been verified, but semi-official information, given out by the Secretary of the Davidson War Department, leaves little doubt as to the truth of the report.

Red Forces Make Strategic Defence of Hill No. 792
Stubborn Resistance Is Offered to the Offenders as Red Line Holds.
(Special to The Davidsonian).
(Copyrighted by the International War Correspondence Service.)
(Special Red Reporter.)

The organization of Hill 792 in its defense of our forces was undoubtedly the most perfectly worked out arrangement of guns and men with which Blue troops have had to contend. The details of this plan of defense are here given only by special permission of Field Marshal Kelis. It is felt that information concerning the wonderful way our officers are conducting the war should be given to the Davidson public.

The defense of the hill consisted of three combat troops placed at intervals in the edge of the South Slope Woods, a machine gun covering each flank, a number of Stokes Mortars located within the woods, and a series of reserve positions to which it might be possible to fall back in case of strategic necessity. Reference to the map of the war zone along this front shows at once the excellence of this choice of positions, for the combat troops were completely camouflaged and securely protected from rifle fire. Brigadier General Moore commanded the right flank combat troops, Brigadier General Tufts the left, and Brigadier General Story the center. Without a doubt the last of these had the most difficult task for they were ordered to act as outposts on Hill 690, due south of the Red positions, and had to retire under fire to their location along the reverse slope of Foothill Crest. Brigadier General Bitzer, directing the machine gun operations, managed to place these guns in such positions that both of them commanded flanking fire on the enemy and both of them were enabled to execute grazing fire over extensive areas of the slope in front of the Defended Hill. Colonel Weeks operated the right flank with most damaging results to our vastly outnumbered enemy.

Regimental headquarters were located in a ravine several yards north of Woods-edge and from this centrally located point Major-General Richards directed the defense as a whole.

(Continued on page 6)

NEWS FROM HEADQUARTERS
Official Blue Communique.
Somewhere on the Golf Course, April 26, 1922—Blue forces moved forward yesterday along the entire Hoyt’s Valley front. After driving the enemy before them many meters a halt was made to organize the newly occupied terrain.
McCLAIN, Chief-of-Staff.

Official Red Communique.
With the Red forces in the field, General Headquarters, April 26, 1922—Red forces holding Cemetery Ridge on the Hoyt’s Valley front successfully withstood Blue attacks in force yesterday. Red forces are now consummating a strategic retreat to the north.
FAISON, Chief-of-Staff.

ON TO VICTORY! WILD CATS!