S. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 9, 1922

ATTENTION! ALUMNI!

The Davidsonian has realized that for a greater Davidson the student body and alumni must keep in close touch with
each other and to accomplish this end the staff is going to devote part of every Davidsonian to an alumni
feature section. Each organized chapter or division of the Alumni Association will, at a specified time during the year, have
a part of the paper set aside exclusively for the news and activities of its members. In this way, all
the alumni can keep in touch with each other. It is hoped that each alumni organization will try to make
its section in The Davidsonian the best. The secretaries of the organizations in the various cities are urged to send
in write-ups of every alumnus in his vicinity. Please address all information, including class numerals if possible, to C. F.
Wildman, Davidson, N. C.

HERE AND THERE

Captain MacBride, Laurinburg, N. C., has remembered his Alma Mater by a bequest of $5,000. Davidson and Davidson men extend
their hearty appreciation for the gift.

Rev. E. D. Brown, ’93, was on the campus Saturday. Doctor Brown was moderator of the Synod of North Carolina
which recently met at Lincolnton. Among the Davidson men addressing the Synod were Dr. William J. Martin, who spoke on
the subject of “Christian Education;” Dr. H. E. Hill, of Fayetteville; Dr. C. M. Richards and Rev. E. L. Siler,
of Maxton.

Rev. A. A. McGeachy was thoroughly enjoyed in his talk at Davidson Monday night. Davidson men regard with satisfaction the
splendid success Doctor McGeachy is meeting with as pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte.

Mortimer Cosby is in business at Columbia, S. C.

H. L. Moore, '08, is teaching physics at Carnegie Tech in Massachusetts.

Chandler Beall, after studying French a year and a half in Europe and taking one year at Johns Hopkins, is
assistant professor of French at the University of South Carolina.

Z. N. Holler, ’07, has recently connected himself with the Chancellor Investment Company, of Petersburg, Va.

Edgar Allen Fripp, Jr., ex-’13, was married on October 21st to Miss Eliza Barnwell Lockwood, of Charleston. Mr. and Mrs.
Fripp will be at home in Columbia, S. C.

Dr. Claude Currie Kelly, '09, of Hartford, Conn., was married on November 4th to Miss Ruth Augusta Souder, of Baltimore.

John Lewis Payne, ’16, and Mrs. Payne, of Charlotte, are being congratulated on the arrival last week of Miss Louise
Yates Payne.

J. P. Williams, ’16, and Mrs. Williams, of Montreat, announce the birth of Margaret Elizabeth, at Biltmore, N. C.

Rev. C. F. Rankin, D. D., '04, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Farmville, Va., where is located the
Virginia State Normal School.

William E. Holt, ‘84, 1234 Vinton Avenue, Memphis, Tenn., is manager of the Oliver Finnie Grocery (wholesale) Company.

W. H. Williamson, ’86, has retired from the work of cotton manufacturer and is living at 720 Hillsboro Street, Raleigh,
N. C.

George H. Craig, Jr., ‘86, is president and manager of the Peoples’ Cotton Oil Company at Selma, Ala.

James T. Murphy, ’78, after a long period in government service at Washington, is now living at Clinton, N. C.

Edgar W. Faucette, '84, is engaged in phosphate mining at Mt. Pleasant, Tenn.

W. L. Campbell, ’86, is manager of the Kesler Cotton Mills at Salisbury, N. C.

Miles Costin Martin, ’88, Commercial Accountant, is with the Southern Bell Telephone Company, 5570 Bryan Parkway, Dallas, Texas.

Frank L. Fuller, Esq., ’88, is counsel for the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Company in New York City, his office
address being 212 Fifth Avenue.

Rev. J. H. Lumpkin, D. D., ’83, is pastor of Glenview Church, Memphis, Tenn.

J. A. Wyman, ’05, is president of Cotton Oil Company at Bamberg and Denmark, S. C.

Rev. W. C. Cumming, ’18, of Smithfield, N. C., spent last Friday at Davidson.

Captain W. A. Dumas, ’16, represented Davidson College in the exercises attending the recent inauguration of President Benton, of the
Philippines University.

C. R. Wilcox, ’17, has charge of the Darlington School for Boys at Rome, Georgia. In this institution there are
five professors, three of which are D. C. men. They are Pat Robson, '19, S. H. Askew, ’20, and Mr.
Wilcox.

C. B. Craig, ’11, is the pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Laurinburg, N. C.

George Mackey, ’11, is engaged in Y. M. C. A. work in Greenville, S. C.

Rev. G. C. Currie, ’11, is located at Walnut Ridge, Ark.

There are four Davidson men attending the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania. These are Douglas Elliott, ’20; Turk
Shaw, '18; Mark Crisp, '16, and George Robson, '19. The first three will graduate this year while the last one
has a year more to attend.

Lathrop Buie, ’12, is farming near Red Springs, N. C.

James Hall, '14, is teaching in the Roe High School at Pembroke, N. C.

Brooks Peters, ’19, is in the wholesale grocery business in Tarboro, N. C.

Fanning Weeden, ’17, is living in Spartanburg, S. C.

Rowland Brown, ’16, is employed in the post office at Red Springs, N. C.

Rev. T. C. Bales, '11, is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va.

Mac Richards, ’22, spent last weekend with George Robson, '19, to witness the Navy-Penn State football game.

Rawls Howard, '17, is employed in the Farmers Bank and Trust Company in Tarboro, N. C.

Dr. W. R. Grey was a representative to the Synod from the Davidson Presbyterian Church.

Recent news from Rev. Lock White, ‘13, who sailed for China last summer, is that he is getting the rudiments
of that strange language and is beginning to learn its Bible.

S. M. Goodman is in the insurance business at Mooresville, N. C.

The general committee on army and navy chaplains of the Protestant Churches in the United States has decided to establish
a national memorial to the brave men who made the supreme sacrifice for their country. According to the records, 22
men in America gave their lives, one of them being Rev. T.M. Bulla, ‘07. obo EL SD p js Hear
Bishop. Dr. Sentelle—"Mr. Gray, if it were not for the Nile river what would Egypt be a part of?” Gray
after meditation—“Part of Africa, Doctor.”

TECHNICIANS HOLD REDS
(Continued from page one)

pack in ability to gain ground, and registered 10 first downs to seven for the victors. But the Presbyterians had
their old difficulty of making their yardage count in points. And after all, it’s touchdowns and not first downs that
win games.

Davidson kicked off to Lassiter, who returned to his 40-yard line before being stopped by Regen. He was knocked ‘dippy’
though not unconscious on this play. On the next play Lassiter fumbled, Hendrix recovering. Davidson was penalized five yards for
holding, but Moore got the distance back and a forward pass, Hendrix to Davis, carried the ball to State’s 25-yard
mark. A touchdown seemed sure, but the Lady stepped in. Regen, who had been playing all this time without knowing
what he was doing, was called upon to go through the line. He, not realizing that it was his ball,
smashed into the line, the ball sailed by him. Holland scooped it up and, before the Wildcats realized what had
happened, planted it safely behind the goal post.

Another State fumble, Andy Randolph, gave the Wildcats their second chance and they bored straight down the field from the
45-yard line, making good three forward passes in a row and planting the ball on the six-yard line for a
first down. Three rushes netted only two of the needed six yards and the quarter ended with the ball on
the four-yard line and but one chance left. Davidson resorted to a forward pass in a desperate effort to make
the opportunity good, but the pass was grounded and the ball went over on downs. Long’s kick again gave the
ball to Davidson on State’s 45-yard line, but this was the Wildcats' last invasion for Cox broke through the line
and snatched the ball from Hendrix, who had dropped back to throw a pass. State was then penalized 15 yards
for holding, but Long got away the best punt of the day for 60 yards and Davidson had the ball
on its own one-yard line.

State worked the ball up to the 15-yard line, featuring a forward pass, but at that point the Wolfpack began
to draw penalties, several of which were for an excess number of “times out” and Long missed a drop kick
from the 40-yard line.

DAZZLING FORWARD PASSES
State then got a full dose of the Presbyterians’ aerial game, but the half ended after the advance had carried
the ball 45 yards to State’s 25-yard line. The ball see-sawed back and forth in the third quarter until Lassiter
grabbed a Davidson forward pass and gave his team a chance that was converted into a touchdown. The third quarter
ended with State in possession of the ball in the exact center of the field. Two successive downs put the
Wolfpack well in the enemy's territory and when the advance was stopped Bobby Long booted a field goal for three
extra points.

MOORE STRUTS HIS STUFF
But late in the game, Captain Spratt Moore turned loose in earnest and “strutted his stuff” almost the entire length
of the field, slashing off tackle and circling around the ends in runs that gave meaning to the word “deceptive.”
With Moore’s wriggling and side-stepping accounting for every gain except one 11-yard pass, the ball was placed on State's 43-yard
line, for a total gain of yards. The Wildcats then turned again to the overhead game and a pass from
Hendrix to Davis netted 20 yards more. Another pass was tried, but it was grounded in the end zone. Davidson
showed a poor forward pass game, but Moore, the two Davis brothers, and Clark were the outstanding cogs in the
Davidson machine.

For State, Red Lassiter showed more smash and drive in plunges through the line than at any time this season
and the whole State line was alert, though at times and in sections outplayed. Long played a good steady game
and ran his team with judgment, besides filling the gap left by the absence of Tom Park’s toe.

STATE vs. DAVIDSON
Position
Left End: Ripples vs. C. Davis
Left Tackle: Clark vs. Sorrells
Left Guard: Bostian vs. Brice
Center: Beatty vs. Davis
Right Guard: Boyd (C) vs. McMasters
Right Tackle: Holland vs. Faison
Right End: Ripple vs. Hendrix
Quarterback: Randolph vs. Regen
Right Half: Lassiter vs. Moore (C)
Fullback: Lassiter vs. Moore (C)

Score by periods:
N.C. State: 6 0 6 3—15
Davidson: 0 0 0 0—0

N.C. State scoring—Touchdowns: Holland and Long. Field goal—Long.

N.C. State substitutions—Pasourt for Beatty, Lassiter for Ripple, Dill for Baker, Wallace for Lassiter, Morris for Jennette.

Davidson substitutions—Shepherd for Regen, Mallory for Faison, Martin for Shepherd, Cox for Clark.

Referee—Major of Auburn; umpire, Izzard, of Washington and Lee; headlinesman, Hodgson, of V.P.I. Time of periods—15 minutes each.

On the Square
Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

For State, Red Lassiter showed more smash and drive in plunges through the line than at any time this season
and the whole State line was alert, though at times and in sections outplayed. Long played a good steady game
and ran his team with judgment, besides filling the gap left by the absence of Tom Park’s toe.

W. E. PRICE
General Agent
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

NONE TOO SMALL
NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A. DUNN, President
A. G. BRENIZER, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

THE CAMPAIGN for DAVIDSON IS NOW ON
DAVIDSON IS RUNNING A CAMPAIGN THAT HAS AN AIM FOR PROGRESS

We Can Sell You Insurance for Rain That Pays Each Claim With Promptness
McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.
