THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 14, 1922.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

WATCH THE SLOGANS.
The Evangelization of the World In This Generation!

FRANK P. MILLER EXPLAINS DUTIES OF C. E. SECRETARY

Monday evening at 7:15, in Shearer Hall, Mr. Frank P. Wilson, field secretary of the States of North Carolina, Virginia, and Tennessee, spoke to the Christian Endeavor Training Class on the difficulties of a field secretary and the means to be used in overcoming them. He said that the principal obstacle that a field secretary has to overcome is the indifference of Church people to the power of the Christian Endeavor to train young people of any denomination for future work in their Church and community. At 8 o'clock he spoke in the Church to the members of the Senior Endeavor. He brought out the many things that a C. E. Society could accomplish if well-organized and wide-awake, such as prison work and civic betterment and the organizing and carrying-on of classes in personal evangelism. He brought out several concrete examples of ideal societies and the work they are doing along these lines. He also mentioned the State C. E. Convention that is to be held in Charlotte on June 16, 17, and 18.

DOCTOR THOMPSON TELLS OF HIS EXPERIENCE IN BRAZIL

Dr. Thompson, Southern Presbyterian missionary to Brazil, gave an interesting talk last Friday night in Dr. McConnell’s history room. He has been working for 30 years to the south of the Amazon valley jungles, among a people of mainly Portuguese descent, and it was with reference to that people that he spoke. The territory, half as large as the United States, is sparsely settled, the people living in widely separated villages mainly along the waterways. The negroes, who were brought over as slaves before they were introduced in the United States, were freed in 1886. They now hold many important offices both in business and government. There has been much intermarrying among them and now the only distinction between the so-called white—even if he is as black as pitch—and a negro, is whether he has kinky hair or not. The natives are an exceedingly polite people and would do nearly anything for the good of the missionary. He spoke of the need of agricultural missionaries, showing how the Brazilians planted their grains, not by plowing the soil first, but by the primitive method of digging rows of holes in hard soil for the seeds. Dr. Thompson, together with his evangelical work, has been issuing two publications in Portuguese, one a small Church paper and the other a weekly bulletin in which are published sermons and helps on the Sunday School lessons. This bulletin, highly complimented by our board, finds its way with its 1,300 subscribers to every missionary in Brazil and to many of the native teachers and preachers. After having worked in Brazil for 30 years, it no longer seems a foreign field to him, but home, and he can scarcely wait until fall to get back and work as long as his body, which he says is “still tough,” shall last, he said.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS IN CONFERENCE AT BELMONT

The Southern District Convention of the North Carolina Christian Endeavor Union met Saturday and Sunday in the Presbyterian Church of Belmont. The peak of the attendance was reached Sunday when over 100 delegates were present. Dr. Fraser, of Queens College, and Secretary Wilson, of the State Union, were among the prominent speakers who helped to make a success of this convention. Dr. Fraser preached at the regular morning service and that night addressed the Endeavorers with his characteristic earnestness and force. The Convention theme was “Four-Square” and the text was contained in II Timothy 2:15. Mr. Wilson was a live wire at all the meetings, doing many things to promote the usefulness of this convention to each attendant. The Davidson College Christian Endeavor Training Class and the Davidson Church Endeavor were both well represented. Fraser, Gamble, Guiton, and Purdy led in the Sunday afternoon program while that night Misses Nina Holt and Gene Martin, both of Davidson, added attractiveness to the service with a specially selected and well-rendered duet. A simple yet sincere and forceful “model” prayer meeting was conducted by Arnett Gamble on the closing day. This feature was of real practical value to all. T. A. Guiton, of Davidson College, was elected district quiet hour and life work recruiting superintendent, which was indeed an honor. The next meeting of the Southern District will convene at Huntersville and Davidson hopes to have an equally strong delegation present. Other delegates from Davidson were Misses Johnsie Shelton and Ruth Johnson.

INTERESTING DEPUTATION TO CROSSNORE HIGH SCHOOL

Dwight Chalmers enjoyed a visit to the Crossnore High School, April 3 and 4. The school is situated in Avery County, N.C., the village boasting a population of 33. The school, however, has an enrollment of 205 pupils, who come from all over the county. In fact, three students live so far distant that they have gone into housekeeping on their own account in the neighborhood. The management of the school is in the hands of Mrs. Mary Martin Sloop, a sister of Dr. Martin and Mrs. Archibald Currie, of Davidson. The school is maintained by a systematic collection and sale of old clothes. The amount of the sale last year was $10,000. The occasion for Dwight’s trip was the commencement exercises. The Seniors held class day April 3rd, presenting a play Monday night called “Safety First.” At the graduating exercises Dwight gave a talk on “The Value of An Education.” Following his talk, the boys of the Senior class gave a luncheon in his honor. The eagerness and enthusiasm of the pupils to get an education is evident because of the trouble and hard work that most of them go through to obtain it. Practically every member ishelped in some way by the management.

D. FRIENDSHIP DISCUSSED AT VOLUNTEER BAND MEETING

The subject of the Volunteer Band meeting on last Sunday morning was “Friendship.” J. P. Price led the meeting and brought out several phases of interest about friendship. The meeting opened with song and prayers by Ted Jones and Ray Carr. After some business had been disposed of by Bitzer, definitions were called for from different members of the Band, definitions of friendship. Two definitions of special interest were suggested: “A friend is one that knows all about you and likes you just the same;” and “A friend is one who will tell you to your face what he won't tell you behind your back.” The duties and privileges of friendship were then discussed. The leader brought out four duties of friendship that covered the ground well. First, he said that a friend should be loyal. The illustration of Bo McMillan’s letting a guard, a friend, carry across the last touchdown in the last game of the season when he was racing with a West Virginia man for the total number of points for the season in the South. Second, a friend should have confidence in his pal. Third, a man should idealize his friend. An illustration was here used of a missionary who idealized a poor Chinese boy, saw his possibilities, and gave him the opportunity. And today that boy is one of the leading men religiously and politically in China. Fourth, and most important, friends should be friends together and co-friends with Christ. This will keep friendship pure, rich, and worthwhile. The meeting closed with a short series of sentence prayers by members of the band.

D. NOTES FROM THE FIELD.

Amherst-in-Japan. Amherst is the eleventh New England College to adopt responsibility for a foreign missionary project. Students gave $1,700 for an Amherst-in-Japan. The plan is to send annually an Amherst student as a short-term instructor to Doshisha, all expenses being contributed by students and alumni.

Volunteer Band in Virginia. A Student Volunteer Band of four members has been organized at the Medical College of Virginia. Medical and dental students are giving short noon-hour talks to factory workers of the city under the auspices of “Y” deputation work.

Frats at Cincinnati. Fraternities at the University of Cincinnati have taken hold of the discussion group in such a manner that the association feels that this will be a banner year in Bible study.

Work of the “Inner Council.” Hamilton College reports an awakening of interest in Bible study and an open-mindedness to Christian teaching, due to the prayers and personal work of about 20 fellows who are the “Inner Council.”

“Find Yourself Week” in Texas. A “Find Yourself Week” at Southwestern University, Texas, brought home to students the fundamentals of vocational guidance, and especially the importance of the guidance of Jesus Christ in this quest for highest happiness and largest usefulness.

Meeting at 7 A. M. Kansas State Manual Training Normal has a Bible class of ten members meeting every Thursday morning at 7 a.m.

Bible Groups at West Virginia. Eight Bible groups are functioning at West Virginia University, with a Normal Training class. Four Sunday Schools are conducted by the association.

White’s Meat Market BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED Phone DAVIDSON, N. C. We Cater to the College Men

When in Charlotte eat at the Devereaux Cafe Polite Ladies to Serve You Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr. East Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Printing House Building Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Columbia Theological Seminary JOHN M. WELLS, President Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of the students from our controlling Synods attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's finest men have finished their studies at this School of the Prophets. Columbia Seminary invites candidates for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere. Harmony and goodwill permeate the entire Seminary organization. The members of the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida are active and interested. We have a complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working, high-type Student Body. Fall term opens September 20, 1922. Necessary expenses about $150. Scholarships awarded to worthy students. Send for the latest catalogue.

A Victrola In Your Home Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. 213 N. Tryon St. Phone 3626 Charlotte, N. C.

Scholarly Practical Progressive Spiritual Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill, Located in the heart of the chief city of the South. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry in the Twentieth Century Write to JOHN M. VANDER MEULEN, D. D., LL. D., President

PARKER-GARDNER CO. Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records We send records on approval. Write for special service plan Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

EAGLE “MIKADO” Pencil No. 174 For Sale at your Dealer Made in five grades ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND EAGLE MIKADO EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK

LET US INVEST YOUR FUNDS IN FIRST MORTGAGE LOANS at six per cent. SOUTHERN REAL ESTATE, LOAN & TRUST CO. W. S. ALEXANDER, Pres. CHARLOTTE, N. C. We guarantee title, principal and interest.

Union Theological Seminary Richmond, Virginia W. W. MOORE, D. D., LL. D., President Oldest Theological Seminary in the Southern states. Young as the youngest in its progressive methods. A Theological Seminary that makes preachers. 42% of present student body from Davidson College. Catalogue and information upon request.