AC UC THE DAVIDSONIAN GREET TEAM HOME FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. IX. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 14,
1922. NO. 28 Class Leaders Named For Wildcat Baseball Team Is Davidson Debaters Defeat Wake Forest 3-2 Student Body Elects
New Officers For Coming Year John C. Bailey and Edgar Houghton Nobly Uphold the Honors of the Red and Black.
The Wildcat Debaters won a close decision over Wake Forest in a contest of wits between teams representing the two
colleges, held Friday night at Queens College, in Charlotte. Wake Forest upheld the affirmative side of the query, “Resolved, That
the Government should own and operate the coal mines in the United States, constitutionality waived,” while Davidson defended the negative,
winning a three to two decision. Speakers for Wake Forest were L. E. Andrews and F. L. Goodrich, while E.
E. Houghton and J. C. Bailey represented Davidson. M. B. Booe and W. A. Gamble were respective alternates and managers.
Wake Forest developed four points, Andrews bringing out that the present system is corrupt and should be changed, and that
coal mining is a public utility and should be handled as such. Goodrich developed the points that the government should
own and operate the mines to conserve coal and to reduce the price for the consumers. Houghton brought out that
government ownership is unnecessary. Bailey proved that government ownership is impractical and would be harmful. Dr. W. H. Frazer, president
of Queens, presided over the debate. Messrs. Heriot Clarkson, J. A. McRae, Plummer Stewart, H. M. Victor and J. M.
Matthews served as judges. The first four are members of the Charlotte bar and the fifth superintendent of county schools.
Following the debate a reception was (Continued on page 6) Dwight Chalmers Delivers Talk to Students Y. M. C. A.
Secretary Sets Forth His Beliefs and Outlines Plans for Service. Dwight Chalmers was the speaker at the regular “Y” service
last Sunday evening, speaking on the subject: “Why I Believe in God.” His first reason for his belief in God
was the evidences of a great design in all nature and in all the history of the world. Then there
is the existence of the great moral ally to all men that has been present throughout all the history of
the human race. He then brought out the fact that he believes in God because of His existence as testified
in the Bible and in His Son, Jesus. His belief in a personal God was based on experience. (Continued on
page 6) THE WILDCAT SCREAMS with a check in it. The highest expression house, Faison and Hendricks Hold Other Positions.
On Monday morning, April 3, 1922, the election of new officers for the coming year took place. The student council
nominated men for the offices of president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, after which the house was open for nominations from
the floor. In addition to S. M. Davis, R. F. Davidson, H. H. Smith, and G. B. Sorrells, Pat Crawford
and Gig Shepard were nominated from the floor, but they withdrew their names from the race. Each of the men
nominated by the council were seconded and voted upon. S. M. Davis and H. H. Smith led with the highest
number of votes, but neither had a majority. On the second ballot S. M. Davis was elected to lead the
student body throughout the coming year. For vice-president the council nominated Warren Cox, C. M. Davis, Elias Faison, A. M.
Hillhouse, A. M. McBryde, and Ralph Smith. Each of these men were seconded and voted upon. Hillhouse and Faison were
chosen to serve as vice-presidents. For the office of secretary and treasurer the council nominated M. S. Beall, J. P.
Hendrix, J. M. Pleasants and H. B. Price. These men were all seconded. The vote gave the office to J.
P. Hendrix. The old officers ably guided the affairs of the student body during the past year and without a
doubt these new men will measure up to the high standard which has been set by their predecessors. Buck Currie
Will Be Next Year’s Y.M.C.A. Sec’y Caused by the Resignation of Dwight Chalmers. A. L. Currie, better known as Buck,
was recently selected by the Y. M. C. A. Board of Control as the “Y” secretary for next year. Dwight
Chalmers’ going to Union Seminary will make his loss distinctly felt. His pleasant smile, competent leadership, and true conservation has,
during the past two years, won for him in the heart of every Davidson man a place that will long
remain warm. However, under the leadership of Buck Currie, it is strongly believed that the “Y” will move on to
great accomplishments in the future. During his four years as a student here, Buck has fully proved himself of first
rank in spirit, mind and body, the three things the Y. M. C. A. strives to develop. Spiritually he has
proved himself to be a leader. Whenever a question between right and wrong arises he always takes a definite stand
for the right. He has served as both vice-president and secretary of the “Y,” and was a member of the
cabinet last year. As a scholar he is thorough and efficient. In the Philanthropic Literary Society he held several offices
and won various other honors. This year, as Principal of the Davidson graded schools, he has proved his worth as
a teacher. Physically it need only be said that he has achieved a “D” and three stars, having pitched for
the Red and Black through thick and thin, and having served as captain for one year. Buck knows how to
make friends and keep them. He has a pleasant smile and a welcome word for everyone and is a fine
companion. Last year he proved his worth as president of the student body, having previously served as its secretary, treasurer,
and vice-president. (Continued on page 2) Coming Year’s Activities Sorrells, Faison, and Beall, to Guide Destiny of the Three Upper
Classes. Defeated by A. & E. 9-2 Both Teams Hit Freely—Untimely Errors Responsible for Number of Tech Tallies. Playing a
steady game in the field and hitting hard and sure in the pinches, N. C. State defeated Davidson, Saturday, 9-2.
Allen, hurling for the visitors, although hit freely by the Wildcats, wasHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

the elections by little trouble with the three Wildcat flingers. classes: Without attempting to alibi for the Junior defeat, it
may be truly said that the Sorrels was elected president, with score does not indicate the relative Hugh Smith and
Bob Davidson as close strength of the two teams. The ten seconds. Hugh Smith was chosen as Wildcat safeties went
for 16 bases, while vice-president over a large field of can- State could stretch her 19 hits but three didates.
For secretary and treasurer, kicks further. The superiority of the George Mauze was given charge of the Techs lay only
in a better brand of books and bank account of the class. pitching and more timely hitting. Sophomore The visitors
started in the initial I. N. Faison was elected to head our frame. After Boushee had disposed of next Junior
class. J. I. Smith was chosen two, Johnson tripled to right and scored vice-president, and R. R. Jones secretary When
Freeman threw Redfern’s bounder and treasurer. The poet and historian away. Another counter came in the jobs went to Francis
Galloway and Dave fourth on a walk, a stolen base and a Phlegar respectively. Honor roll men single to left.
But State’s big round was seem to be popular with ’24. the sixth, when they manufactured five runs on six
hits, a sacrifice fly and a M.S. stolen base. These proved to be suffi- cient to win, but to be
sure they scored to guide them through their first year as two more in the ninth. Two were out freshmen,
with Jim Pleasants as when Ruth singled through short and his assistant. The secretary-treasurer job took second on Erwin’s wild
throw. He Freshman base. Freshman class chose as Hugh Murrill, Jr., added to D. C. Coaching Staff Wide Famed Athlete
to Aid in the Training of Wildcat Teams Next Year. Hugh Murrill, Jr., of Charlotte, N. C., former V. M.
I. and West Point star, will be connected with the football coaching staff of Davidson College next fall. In his
announcement of Mr. Murrill’s acceptance, Dr. J. M. Douglass, chairman of the Athletic Council of the College, expressed himself as
being of the opinion that the council had been, indeed, very fortunate in securing the services of Mr. Murrill, who
will bring with him to Davidson a wealth of football experience gained as a player under some of the best
coaches of the East and as a coach in his own right. Mr. Murrill to assist Coach Grey, Davidson should
be better coached next year than ever before. Hugh Murrill needs no introduction to football fans of the East and
Southeast. From 1909 to 1913 he was at V. M. I., playing on the football team of that institution. After
his graduation he returned as an assistant coach. Murrill entered West Point in 1915 and for three years played quarterback
on the same team with Oliphant, Vidal, Vandergriffe and other noted Army stars. While at the Point he was also
athletic representative of his class, a member of the varsity pitching staff and light heavyweight boxing champion. After graduation into
the Army, Murrill served as athletic director at several of the great cantonments before going overseas. After his return from
service (Continued on page 6) Captain Knight Figures Well — He stole third as Norwood strolled and the Tech captain
promptly swiped the halfway hassock. Johnson’s fourth hit, a single to center, brought them both over, but Pritchett snared Redfern’s
fly, cancelling them. The seventh saw the only two Davidson runs come in. McMillan doubled to left and Blue knocked
down McLeod’s (Continued on page 6) opening of the fall term. Virginia Track Squad Too Much For Red and Black
— Vachel Lindsay in Public Entertainment Here Soon Although Davidson's track team, which lost their dual meet to V. P.
I. last week, did not bring back the laurels of victory, they fought gamely and made a very creditable showing,
considering the handicaps under which they labored. The Virginia Tech team lost but one man from last year’s team and
are almost certain winners of the South-Atlantic meet. The times and distances were exceptionally good throughout the meet, and the
Wildcat team showed up well. Gracy was the high-point man for Davidson, with 11 points to his credit, but he
was closely followed by Captain Knight with 10 counters. Gracy tied for first in the high jump and pole vault,
took second in the 120 high hurdles, and third in the broad jump. Knight, the dusky Wildcat captain, salvaged first
place in the discus shot, winning both of the events in which he was entered. His toss of the discus
for 114 feet, 6 inches, ties the college record made by Wooly Grey in '18. Byrd, Newman and Brittingham starred
for Tech. The former was high-point man of the meet with 15 points, while Brittingham tied the South-Atlantic record in
the 220 dash and stepped off the century distance in 10 flat. Newman captured the mile and the (Continued on
page 6) Due to a blocked track, the Wildcats did not reach Blacksburg until 11 a. m. Saturday, and the
need of rest, coupled with the strain of the trip, was a big handicap. ARE YOU THINKING OF NEXT YEAR’S
STUDENTS?
