4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 2, 1922

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 P.M.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief H. H. SMITH
Forum Editor P. B. RAINS
Managing Editor R. C. AIKEN
Campus Editor K. M. SMITH
Second Managing Editor D. H. OGDEN
Assignment Editor R. R. ELLIOTT
Social Editor H. M. MORRIS
Athletic Editor H. M. MORRIS
Literary Editor F. WILDMAN
Alumni Editor W. Z. BRADFORD
Press Editor W. M. COX
Exchange Editor W. M. COX

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY Assistant Manager
Assistants: MILTON, W. E. MINTER, J. A. McLEOD, W. C. COX, L. P. APPLEBY, J. M. SMITH, C. F.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Business Manager W. J. COX
Advertising Solicitors: J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, and W. G. GUILLE
Advertising Copy: E. J. ROSCH

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
Circulation Manager WATT McCAIN
Asst. Circulation Mgr. S. C. FAIN
Assistants: R. B. LILES, E. C. MOOMAW, J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President H. B. PRICE
Vice-President W. P. BROWN
Secretary W. F. GALLOWAY
Members: J. A. LAKE, Jr., W. H. SHARPE, W. H. BROWN, M. W. WALTHALL, D. B. CALHOUN, G. W. MAUZE, A. C. WILDMAN, J. R. EARNEST, A. N. MOFFETT, J. M. WILLIAMS, W. H. FEWELL, W. H. MOORE

Let’s don’t let a little hard luck discourage us, fellows. Everybody wanted to win from Trinity and we all feel bad because we didn’t. There are four hard games left on our schedule, however, and to win them will bring us much praise. We have a team that can win every one but not a single one is going to be easy. We don’t want to think they are, but we want to have fight and spirit at those games we go to in a body, and we want to send our team off to the others with the same fighting spirit they have manifested already this season. A. & E. look out! D.

The way in which Mr. Robert K. Smith, deceased, a native of North Carolina, remembered several of the State’s educational institutions so liberally in his will certainly showed a deep interest in the cause of education, and especially an interest in improving educational advantages in his native State. We feel that nowhere could he have found a better place for the $50,000 that he left Davidson, and hope that it can be used in such a manner as to justify his bequest, which was greatly appreciated, and also to help influence others who have similar interests to believe that here they can find a field of usefulness that merits such donations. D.

SCOTLAND INSPIRING

Not often do we have the privilege of hearing such an instructive and at the same time interesting and inspiring lecture as that delivered last Monday evening by Doctor McGeachy. The way in which he talked of Scotland would make anyone take an interest in her people, history, and traditions. The character of the three great men of the country he dealt with, Burns, Knox, and Scott, was portrayed so eloquently and forcefully as to make a lasting impression. All who went came away wishing that Doctor McGeachy had told more of his trip and experiences. Those who missed this talk for any reason certainly missed a treat. D.

AN ERROR CORRECTED

The last issue of The Davidsonian contained an editorial on the new system of supervision that has been put in our dormitories this year. Probably the same error has existed in the minds of many of the students that was made in that article. When this plan was first proposed, it was stated that some lady would be given the position of matron. However, this was not done, and Mrs. Smith came to Davidson as supervisor of the dormitories, not as matron. In this capacity, she can better see that we learn for ourselves the habits of orderliness and cleanliness that are so essential, and help instill in us the desire to care for and improve our rooms, which should go hand in hand with our desire for a better Davidson. D.

SELECT A SCHOOL RING

There has been for some time a growing sentiment that we should have a standard ring at Davidson. It was talked of last year and the year before last and almost everyone expressed themselves as being in favor of adopting one. The difficulty has not been that numerous arguments were not brought up in favor of this idea, but that each Junior class believed it could pick a design that was much better than that selected the previous year. It does look as if this difficulty could be overcome and a ring selected and adopted that would be permanent. The Juniors have not made their selection for next year. Probably some of the desirable features of the ring of this year’s class will be incorporated in the one they decide upon. Designs have yet to be submitted, and every man here has time to think over the kind of ring that he would like to have selected. If the ring committee of the Junior class can get the consensus of these opinions, they can choose a ring that will appeal not only to a majority of their class but to a majority of all the classes. Then they will be in a position to have the ring adopted by the student body and become standardized. Such a ring will be so beneficial that the chance should not be allowed to pass. D.

In a Southern garden at twilight,
Sat a Keydet and a lass;
He asked her to wear his class pin
In the honor of his class.

He implored the maid to take it,
As they sat there on the grass;
So she took the little emblem
In the honor of his class.

For a long time then she wore it,
But in the years that pass;
His class pin fastens baby clothes
In the honor of his class.
—The Cadet.

Bits of College Wisdom

First I kissed her on the nose, then on the chin, and between the two I had a wonderfully fine time—Sun and Gold.

Most professors have no objection to a student looking at his watch but it’s not good diplomacy to hold it to your ear in order to find whether it’s ticking.

Some handsome student makes this profound observation: Any girl will flirt as the train is pulling out.

Wisdom is knowing what to do next. Skill is knowing how to do it, and virtue is doing it—Exchange.

A youth wants to know how long girls should be courted. Answer: Same as short ones.—Charlotte Observer.

“Pray let me kiss your hand,” said he, with looks of burning love.
“I can remove my veil,” said she, “much easier than my glove.”

Who was the professor who said they didn’t have petting parties when he was a boy? They called them hay rides then.

When he was courting her he ate fudge. Now that he has married her he eats cold beans from a tin can.

Love may be nothing but a chemical reaction, but, oh! aren’t the laboratory experiments interesting?

“What does a girl mean when she puts A. B. after her name?”
“After bachelors, I suppose.”

She (vehemently)—“I wouldn’t marry you if you were the last man on earth!”
He—“I don’t suppose you would—you’d get killed in the rush!”

When Abraham Lincoln was a young man he ran for the legislature in Illinois, and was badly swamped. He next entered business, failed, and spent 17 years of his life paying up the debts of a worthless partner. He was in love with a beautiful young woman to whom he became engaged—then she died. Later he married a woman who was a constant burden to him. Entering politics again, he ran for Congress and was badly defeated. He then tried to get an appointment to the United States Land Office, but failed. He became a candidate for the United States Senate and was badly defeated.1856 he became a candidate for the vice-presidency and was again defeated. In 1858 he was defeated by Douglas. One failure after another—bad failures—great setbacks. In the face of all this, he eventually became one of the country’s greatest men, if not the greatest. When you think of a series of setbacks like this, doesn’t it make you feel small to become discouraged just because you think you are having a hard time in life? —Kansas Official.

Get Behind Your Team

Last week in Greensboro, as we all know too well, Trinity put it on us in no uncertain manner. There’s no denying the fact that they really beat us. Not that we haven’t as good a team as they have—we have a better one. If we hadn’t had as good a team as they had, we couldn’t have held them as well as we did. Those who saw us play Georgia Tech and V. P. I. know of what kind of stuff our team is made of. They are as good as any team in this State and they are going to show it yet. Do you know that some people are saying that Davidson can’t play two good games in succession? That's an insult to our team to say that. Of course, after a game like the V. P. I. game, the team is somewhat crippled up and it’s harder for them to come back as strong next week, but they are real men that we have on that team and they will come back stronger than ever now if we boys will help them.

The team doesn’t need the support of the students so very much when they are winning all their games. That in itself is enough to keep them pepped up. But after a hard game when they have played their best and things didn’t go right and the score was in favor of the other fellow, they feel downhearted and blue. That's the time the men on the team really do need the sympathy and support of the student body. That’s the time for the students to show their sportsmanship and their fight. Our team lost some games that we thought they should have won. Shall we go along and tend to our business as if nothing had happened? No, now is the time for us to do our part. Get out here and root for these men while they are practicing. Have some pep. Let them know that we know that it was an accident last week and that we don’t blame them. Tell them that we haven’t lost our confidence in them and that we are backing them harder than ever.

Some are saying that because the student body wasn’t present last Saturday that we were beaten. That’s not true. A team that can’t play without its rooters being present is not half a team. Of course, it’s nice to have somebody on the sidelines to yell for you when you make a good play or to console you when something goes wrong. But look at Centre. They play a great many of their games away from the campus. That doesn’t keep them from playing good football. That’s no excuse. It’s what the student body does on the campus that counts. If we are interested all week before the game and have pep meetings and show the team that we are really behind them and are expecting them to win, then they will play with a spirit that can't be beaten.

We have two good examples right here before us. The week before the V. P. I. game we were all on our toes and we let the team know it. The week before the Trinity game we took things easy and nothing was said about football all week except something about a train. When that was not granted, most of us sat back down and didn’t bother about the game any more except to ask what the score was. That's no way to do. The game is half lost or won by the attitude that the student body takes toward the game. We can’t expect the team to do more than we do ourselves. If we do our part, then the team will almost certainly do theirs. We didn’t do our part last week. What are we going to do the rest of the season?

H. S.

Dormitories

The bedrock foundation of civilization is sanitation. In fact, the former is impossible without the latter—they are inseparable. Once a person or a community is genuinely and thoroughly civilized, cleanliness, orderliness, and beauty become necessary adjuncts—a component part of the whole. To live in a state of unclean disorder is to live in a condition that will sooner or later endanger the morals. This has been proven. The human being never lived who could escape retrograding toward the state of primitive man if he lets the bars down completely and allows himself to drift. Carelessness of one’s surroundings is a blow at one’s self-respect. Some of the most colossal fights ever made for humanity have been made in the interest of cleanliness. Florence Nightingale’s spirit still goes marching on and will for ages to come. General Gorgas built his monument at Panama and earned the everlasting gratitude of the world. Order is the twin sister of cleanliness—they go hand in hand. The keystone binding together these virtues and shedding upon them her divine rays is beauty. Flowers, music, pictures—refinement, which always means graciousness in our intercourse with each other—they are all within our grasp if we care enough to reach out and take them. Doubtless we all know the old Chinese adage—"If you have two loaves of bread, sell one and buy a narcissus for the soul.” Not to want the narcissus for the soul is to admit that some fine quality has been left out of our composition. “There is in true beauty, as in courage, somewhat which narrow souls cannot dare to admire.”

Youth and Opportunity are synonymous—and to the young men of Davidson College is now given the chance to prove whether or not they value the ideals and standards of their college sufficiently to include in the Davidson spirit, of which we are hearing so much these days, the most commendable spirit of cleanliness and order in the dormitories. How are you going to have a “better Davidson” without it? Just think what we could accomplish if there were a hearty cooperation by all.

MRS. N. T. SMITH, Supervisor Dormitories.

CAMPUSISMS By O. J. ALLISON

It is rumored that John D. Parish will be summoned to appear before Judge Webb at the next term of court on the charge of Desertion of the Duchess.

The following men have been initiated into fraternities since the opening of the fall term: J. I. Smith, Beta; L. H. Brice, K. A.; H. I. Shepherd, S. A. E.

Citizens of West Dorm are asked to prepare for the worst. John Simpson is going to attempt to learn to toot a cornet.

Duke Walthall spent the weekend in Atlanta. Duke took in the Tech-Notre Dame game and saw Tech walloped on Grant Field.

A part of the $50,000 bequeathed to the college might be used in purchasing a new piano for Shearer Hall. Visitors must get a bad impression of the college from the disreputable instrument there now.

Those who enjoyed some good home cooking during last week at Mrs. Robson’s are: R. M. McGirt, J. B. Hall, E. D. Brown.

John Simpson made the following remark at the movies Saturday night about the boy playing the banjo: “He plays by the memory system and is feeble-minded.” George Lawson was playing the banjo.

Nobody will stick their nose in your business if you run a skunk farm.

The “Y” has frequently asked gentlemen not to smoke at the movies. From the smoke screen put out Saturday night, there are evidently some who do not consider themselves in this class.

The first review in football was held at the Gym last Friday night. Spratt Moore made 100!

Bob McLeod spent a few days on the Hill last week en route to N. C. C. W. to teach them the Davidson yells.

Pat Crawford defines “nothing divided by two” as a kiss.

Bascomb Sorrells, president of the Senior class, received a sample of Kolynos Skin Soap recently. He’s trying to cultivate “A skin you love to touch.”