THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1922

BAPTISTS SNATCH
(Continued from Page Two)

who returned 10 yards to the 30-yard line. Brandon gained one yard over left guard. Faison threw Lowery for a
three-yard loss. Faison threw Brandon for a one-yard loss. Quarter up. Score—Davidson 6; Wake Forest 0.

SECOND QUARTER

Wake Forest’s ball on her 27-yard line. Fourth down and 13 to go. Fulton punted 42 yards out of bounds
on Davidson’s 31-yard line. Martin lost two yards around right end. Hunt gained two yards over left tackle. Shepherd punted
30 yards to Luntz, who returned five yards. Fulton gained one yard over left tackle. Davidson was offside and it
was first down on the 50-yard line. Lowery gained one yard over left guard. Johnnie Johnstone gained two yards around
left end. Pass, Johnstone to Holmes was incomplete. Fulton punted 30 yards to Hendrix who fumbled and Johnnie Johnstone recovered
on Davidson’s 15-yard line. Brice threw Lowery for a five-yard loss on a run around left end. Fulton plunged through
left tackle but Nappy stopped him with a three-yard gain. Lowery gained one yard around left end. A forward pass
Johnstone to Fulton was incomplete. The ball goes over. Davidson’s ball on her own 16-yard line. Hunt gained two yards
over right tackle. Hunt hit left guard for four yards. Shepherd punted 40 yards to Lowery who was downed in
his tracks by Davis. Holmes hit center for no gain. Fulton gained two yards over left tackle. Lowery skirted left
end for two yards. Fourth down and six to go. Fulton fumbled on his own 26-yard line. Dick was thrown
for a five-yard loss by Crutchfield. Dick gained three yards over left tackle. Half up. Score—Davidson 6; Wake Forest 0.

THIRD QUARTER

Holmes kicked off 53 yards to Martin who returned to the 29-yard line. Davidson was penalized for holding. Davidson’s ball
on her own 14-yard line. Shepherd punted 45 yards to Lowery who returned nine yards to Davidson’s 45-yard line. Lowery
gained four yards around right end. Brandon lost one yard over left guard. Heckman fumbled and Shepherd recovered on Davidson’s
43-yard line. Hunt smashed through right tackle for six yards. Martin skirted right end for five yards and a first
down. Wake Forest was penalized five yards for offside and it was first down on Wake Forest's 40-yard line. Martin
made three over left tackle. Shepherd raced around right end for 11 yards and a first down. Hunt smashed through
center for three yards. Crutchfield threw Martin for a six-yard loss. A pass, Hendrix to Mallory, netted 16 yards and
a first down on Wake Forest’s 13-yard line. Hunt gained four yards over left tackle. Hunt gained two yards over
right tackle. Shepherd made two yards around left end. Hunt made one yard over right tackle. The ball goes over
to Wake Forest on the four-yard line. Fulton punted 55 yards to Hendrix who returned 15 yards to the 44-yard
line. Hunt made one yard over left guard. Hunt made two over left tackle. Brandon intercepted a pass but dropped
the ball and Lentz recovered on his 28-yard line. Fulton punted 30 yards to Hendrix who returned nine yards to
Wake Forest’s 49-yard line. Hunt was thrown for a four-yard loss on an end run. Martin gained one yard around
end. Davidson was penalized five yards for offside. Shepherd punted 25 yards to Hanson who returned two yards to the
32-yard line. Fulton punted 43 yards. Davidson’s ball on the 25-yard line. Martin made four yards over right tackle. Hunt
made seven yards over right tackle for a first down. Martin gained one over right tackle. Martin made two more
over the same place. A forward pass, Hendrix to Mallory, netted 34 yards. Davidson’s ball on Wake Forest’s 26-yard line.
Quarter up.

FOURTH QUARTER

Hunt gained one yard over right tackle. Davidson was penalized five yards for offside. A forward pass, Hendrix to Davis,
netted 12 yards. Laird hit right tackle for seven yards and a first down on Wake Forest's 13-yard line. Hunt
made five yards over right tackle. Hunt hit center for three yards. Laird lost a yard at center. Hunt gained
one yard over right tackle. The ball goes over. Fulton punted out of bounds on the 34-yard line. A forward
pass, Hendrix to Mallory, netted 10 yards and a first down. Crawford lost four yards around end. A pass, Crawford
to Davis, was incomplete. On a pass, Laird to Davis, Davidson was penalized five yards. A pass, Hendrix to Mallory,
was incomplete. The ball goes over. Wake Forest’s ball on the 24-yard line. A pass was incomplete. A pass, Heckman
to Johnnie Johnstone, netted 76 yards and a touchdown. Montague Clark broke up a place kick. Score—Wake Forest 6; Davidson
6. Heckman kicked off 50 yards to Laird who returned 12 yards to the 22-yard line. Hunt gained five over
right tackle. Crawford circled left end for four yards and a first down. Hunt gained two yards over right tackle.
A forward pass was incomplete. Crawford made seven yards around right end. Hunt hit center for two yards and a
first down. Laird lost one yard over left tackle. Two passes were incomplete. Laird punted 35 yards to Heckman who
returned three yards to his own 28-yard line. Hanson gained one yard around right end. Fulton gained one yard around
right end. Heckman hit right tackle for nine yards and a first down. Wake Forest's ball on their own 40-yard
line. Time up. Score—Davidson 6; Wake Forest 6.

DAVIDSON WAKE FOREST
Position
C. Davis Pagons Left Endsis tyersisieiss W. Johnson Left Tackle SieDAaViSh, sass sis o% Martin Left Guard DSLR GB Ob
bo 0 TOGO OEIOD Reitzel Center BONG iss watts aicasesrstati tli 6.66 kes Lentz Right Guard Chil simonuauouondoanuaeds Palermo Right
Tackle HAlSOi 350 ieererntistuss J. Johnstone Right End WHEPHELde en irouresetcriaie tc, Lowery Left Half FUN tories sie etas ite
oss Holmes Right Half iver lio wibbaitlsnoogucouGnn .. Fulton Fullback Hendrix ........ veess+s+. Brandon Quarter

Score by quarters:
DAVIDSON .. ..... 6 0 0 0—6
WAKE FOREST ....0 0 0 6—6

Touchdowns—Shepherd, J. Johnstone.
Referee—Hodgson (Y. P. I.); umpire—Torgen (Rhode Island State); head linesman—Jackson (Baltimore City College). Periods—15; 12; 15; 12.
Substitutions—Davidson: Dick, Crawford, Laird, Heckman, Crutchfield.

D. BIDDLE QUINTETTE TO SING HERE NOV. 12TH

At the Y. M. C. A. service Sunday, November 12th, the Davidson students will have a rare treat in store
for them. Every college boy likes to hear a good male quartet, and this is what the “Y” is bringing
here, with one exception, this is to be a quintette. Biddle University, of Charlotte, is sending its five best singers,
who will give not only religious selections, but will render all the far-famed negro melodies, many of which are so
dear to Southern hearts. The upper classmen, who heard this same group of Biddle students when they were here year
before last, remember their fine music and splendid harmony.

Mallory, Wake Forest: Tlanson.

TD. TO DAVIDSON MEN (Continued from Page One)

The student body of Georgia is nearly three times as large as that of Davidson, but we feel sure the
Davidson spirit is one hundred per cent equal to that of any other educational institution. The campaign will begin on
Wednesday. On Thursday morning the returns will be received at Chapel and tabulated on an adding machine on the platform.
The men of Davidson represent the finest specimens of young manhood to be found in the whole of America. They
come from our best and most representative religious homes. We are confident they will allow no thought of failure to
respond to this magnificent privilege and opportunity to manifest itself, even momentarily, in this great student body. Up and at
’em, Wildcats! We are with you to the finish in a glorious task to be gloriously consummated.

MALCOLM LOCKHART.

lee, me re ee

HGOUDRUM=CO
“Prices you can afford to pay”

Gentlemen:

It has started to rain and looks like it doesn't intend to stop anytime soon. Rain means muddy walks and
muddy walks mean wet shoes. The result, wet feet and a real old-fashioned cold. Prepare yourself: we have just received
a complete line of rubbers - the old reliable "Ball" brand - in light and heavy weights. Take my advice
and buy a heavy weight; the first cost is slightly higher but it will wear twice as long. And while
we are on the subject I might say that our raincoats are very moderately priced.

Sincerely yours,
Mr. Fidler, Furnishings

GOLDEN OPPORTUNITY FLUNG TO THE WINDS

The budding young business giants of the campus lost a wonderful opportunity last week when they failed to notice the
swarm of bees settled at the top of the water tank. There was a chance for real money! Those bees,
if properly hived, might have been the foundation of one of the world’s great fortunes. It is not often that
such a chance comes to a man. It is not every man who can start himself on the road to
wealth with such a slight expenditure of effort. True, there would have been some risk attached to the undertaking: Bees
have a very emphatic way of sitting down sometimes. But what are a few stings to the true seeker after
fame? Suppose some one had been observant and adventurous enough to attempt the capture of these fiery insects. Ascending the
tank in his proper accompaniments of veils and gloves and with a tin pan in his hand, he would have
found it easy to induce these honey-machines to settle. He would only have needed to properly hive them and the
job would have been complete. He would have employees who would supply their own raw materials, manufacture them, and his
share would simply be to sell the finished product. Think of the possibilities in this apparently unimportant incident! In a
brief space of time this daring youth might have become the Honey King of Davidson. The zip manufacturers would have
had no chance against him. The students of Davidson would revere his memory as long as the college shall last.
His statue would have been placed in the Hall of Fame right along with that of the person who set
fire to Chambers and the slick brother who swiped the platinum from the chemical laboratory. But alas, foresighted men of
daring are scarce and this splendid opportunity was allowed to slip.

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

PIANOS

SORE THROAT

For tonsillitis or hoarseness, gargle with warm salt water. Rub Vicks over throat and cover with a hot flannel cloth.
Swallow slowly small pieces.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

ACADEMY KEITH VAUDEVILLE
CLAUDE LEE, Manager

THURSDAY, 12th
FRIDAY, 13th
SATURDAY, 14th

THE ACADEMY ORCHESTRA
G. Shulze, Director
Overture—“Popular Gems”

PATHE NEWS AND PLEASING COMEDY

Academy Orchestra
Selection—“Good Morning, Dearie”
Fox-Trot—“Stuttering”

LALLA SELBINI AND BERT ALBERT
Present “The Butterfly and the Cat”

ARTHUR LLOYD
Humorous Card Index

QUINN BROTHERS AND SMITH
In the Corner Comedy: “On the piece”

SHARKEY, ROTH AND HEWITT
A Triple Alliance of Song, Dance and Fun

ETHEL GILMORE AND GIRLS
In “A Dance Interlude”
A Company of Six Superb Dancing Girls

DAVIDSON NIGHT
Saturday, October 14, 9:00 o’clock performance.
Get tickets right on the campus from Bradford and Jones.

“We Furnish Fraternity Rooms”
