THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 31, 1922

JUNIORS STAGE GREATEST Peanut Parcher SPEAKING OCCASION YET

(Continued from page 2)

Doctor Lingle made a few introductory remarks and announced the judges. The first speaker was A. V. Gibson, who spoke on “Secondary Education in America.” He traced the rise of the school system in America and showed how Benjamin Franklin supported the academy.

W. P. Kimsey, in a well-rounded speech entitled, “Mourning for Dead Ideas,” showed how the modern person is merely following in the footsteps of his predecessor—walking along paths that have already been cleared. If any progress is to be made, old ideas must be forced into the background and a bold step must be taken into the open.

In a speech on “The Age of Internationalism,” H. H. Smith stated that nations have at last begun to realize the folly of devoting their attention to national superiority. A keen sense of internationalism is gaining prevalence throughout the world. It is only through friendship and co-operation that complete internationalism can be realized.

W. H. Moore, speaking upon “A Call to the West,” told in an eloquent manner how Japan is calling to America for aid in helping her to break the yoke of the military party which is seriously hindering her development. A clear and urgent call is being sent to the West, begging America to send men, women, and resources to help Japan socially, economically, politically, and spiritually.

W. A. Gamble presented in an instructive and eloquent manner the educational needs of America. His speech was very appropriately entitled, “About Face,” because it is time for America to take a radical step in the prevention of illiteracy. Illiteracy statistics were given, and then Gamble proceeded to show how the present educational system is inadequate. The creation of a national department of education was suggested as perhaps the best plan to solve the problem.

In a well-prepared speech entitled “Anglo-American Friendship,” G. B. Sorrells showed how England and America have more in common than in contrast. During the World War, both the English and American soldiers laid down their lives upon the altar of Anglo-American friendship.

F. S. Johnston spoke upon “The Influence of Calvinism.” In an eloquent manner, he traced the rise of this influence.

The following men were selected to speak at commencement in competition for the orator’s medal: W. A. Gamble, F. S. Johnston, D. H. Ogden, and G. B. Sorrells, with W. P. Kimsey as alternate.

Junior Class Carnival

The carnival tendered Saturday night by the Junior class was a complete success, proving to be one of the most enjoyable features of Junior week. This was a new departure from the tried and true custom of a formal reception and was well received by both the students and visitors. Greeted at the entrance by a typical carnival band, composed of Messrs. Johnston, Hollingsworth, and Paton, we could not help but feel happy and carefree. The capers of the clowns assisted further in turning the corners of the mouth upward in laughter instead of downward with grouchiness. The work of these clowns, McLaren and Howell, was equal to the stars of Ringling Brothers, without a doubt.

In the first tent on the right, the Harmony Hounds performed in great style on mandolin and guitar for the edification of all, the numbers varying from the latest jazz to the most difficult operas. This quintet, composed of Phillips, Bernhardt, Elkins, Meyers, and Ernest, deserves to be congratulated upon their excellent performance. Mention should also be made here of the excellent manner in which Bob McCuen acquitted himself as a barker. No wonder the Harmony Hounds had such large audiences!

In Dr. Duprez’s Museum, the freaks and oddities of humanity in general brought forth much mirth and laughter. That Wildman, Luhulu, was surely wild. The successors to the Siamese twins, McIver Bros., Inc., astounded everyone by their striking resemblance to their predecessors. The fat lady and the strong man, Trawick and Austin, surely came in for their share of applause.

Then across the alley, Battling Bevo presented in wonderful style and didn't fail to draw the crowds to Professor Rathskeller's Emporium consisting of boxers, wrestlers, dancers, and what not. Leonidas and Loupolous, alias White and Patterson, thrilled their audiences with their wonderful interpretations of the Athenian art, while “Kid” McGovern and “Lefty” Munroe—Young and Roberts—brought forth from the spectators gasps of awe and admiration in their boxing bouts. Mile. Antoinette was there with her toe dancing stunt too. It took convincing argument to prove to the onlookers that Boxy Bachman was not a girl.

The Calamity

The misfortune of the occasion was that June Bug Price was unable to have his Easter egg hunt as he had planned.

Set To

Well, the fire is out and the cook’s gone home.

The Finishing Touch

All that P. D. needed at the carnival to give him the finishing touches was a chew of Brown’s Mule.

That’s Why

It’s rumored that Enoch and his girl quarreled. Maybe that’s the reason she did not get up for Speaking.

The Solution

If all the lazy men on Davidson campus were lined up in a single line they would stretch—

A Question of Time

Monthly reviews are the shortest distance between two months.

The Same Boat

Even the campus dogs enjoyed Speaking.

Why?

It’s all over town—Confetti.

Non Plus

Everything in the collection plate Sunday was pennies.

Appropo

Wildman suited Wildman.

Help Him Out

Cornelson is still looking for the honest man. If anyone finds one, please let him know of his whereabouts.

Where Is He?

What happened to the old-fashioned boy that would loan you a five spot when you were broke?

We Are Glad

The water supply lasted.for. The Monday rains interrupted. Looking Forward. Crown Prince Young’s and Tommy Bethea’s chariot races will be held commencement. They were unable to get in a date during Junior Speaking.

The Vogue. Something popular this week—Sleep.

Duty. Coach Moore was unable to take his regular workout on the bars Saturday. He promises to make up for his neglect of duty this week.

Not a Sure Way. One way to get a letter is to ask a girl up for Speaking.

Music? Heard on the campus during Speaking—Discords.

The Town Clock. John Bailey’s watch stopped Sunday night at eleven fifty, so of course he cannot be blamed for staying until a quarter to one. Notice that hoarseness in his voice on Monday?

Dr. Thos. W. Lingle and Prof. F. K. Fleagle attended the North Carolina Modern Language Association meeting in Greensboro last Tuesday. Professor Fleagle gave an address in Spanish. Dr. Lingle is vice-president of the association, and one of its founders.

Dr. J. P. Monroe, of Charlotte, attended all the baseball games on the hill last week, a real sure-enough student of Anna Pavlova’s influence in American institutions.

Senor Lopez Rodriguez, in other words Bense Sloan, proved himself to be a real contortionist and won much applause, as did also Prof. Lucius de Zert—Dunbar Ogden—in his exhibition of acrobatic stunts.

Quite popular, too, were the fortune tellers, Princess Fatima and Madame Zera. Many mysteries were cleared away, and many hearts were thrilled by promises of handsome lovers and beautiful sweethearts who would make their appearance in the dim and distant future.

The judges, consisting of Dr. Frazer Hood, chairman; Prof. J. L. Douglas, Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. W. L. Porter, and Prof. M. Currie, found it quite a difficult proposition to select the four best men from the 16 who spoke. However, after much deliberation the following men (Continued on page 6)

Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of the students from our controlling Synods attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's finest men have finished their studies at this School of the Prophets. Columbia Seminary invites candidates for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere. Harmony and good-will permeate the entire Seminary organization. The members of the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama, and Florida are active and interested. We have a complete Faculty and a happy, hard-working, high-type Student Body.

Fall term opens September 20, 1922. Necessary expenses about $150. Scholarships awarded to worthy students. Send for latest catalogue.

Columbia

R. S. GARMON & BRO.
CONTRACTORS FOR
Sheet Metal Cornices, Skylights, Ventilators, Tin, Slate and Tile Roofing
Galvanized Iron Cornices, Potts’ A. L. T. Tin Roof Ventilator and All Galvanized Iron Work

REYNOLDS AND WHITE
A Refined Comedy and Musical Offering
ACADEMY
Keith Vaudeville
PROGRAM
Thurs. Fri., Sat., Mar. 30, 31, April 1

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
Charlotte, N. C.

Fred & Bert
MILLER & CHAPMAN
“Just a Little Different”

LINTON BROS.
Revue, The Spirit of the North

OVERTURE
JACK LITTLE

PATHE NEWS AND NOEL
LESTER & CO.

HAROLD LLOYD
Variety Surprise

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA
Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor, peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices

Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel
Second Floor
B. R. Cates, Manager

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

New Spring Clothes for College Men
If you think styles are pretty much alike, that one model is as good as another no matter who made it---come here. We'll show you that there is a difference---that the styles of Tate-Brown clothes are better. In the cut of the lapels, the set of the collar, the drape of the coat, the hang of the trousers, also the difference between hand tailoring and machine work.

New Society Brand Clothes for spring have just come in and now is a good time to select your spring clothes.

TATE-BROWN CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N. C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
HOME COMPANY
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
I. J. Spencer, Mgr.
A HOME BUILDER