THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 16, 1922

LITERARY NEWS

O, Mild West Wind, thou breath of Autumn’s being,
Thou, from whose unseen presence the leaves dead
Are driven, like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing . . .
O, thou, who chariotest to their dark wintry bed the winged seeds,
O, Wind (if winter comes), can Spring be far behind?
—Shelley.

PHILANTHROPICS ELECT NEW TERM OFFICIALS

The program of the Phi Society last Thursday night was taken up with an election of officers for the next term. Those elected were F. S. Johnston, president; P. J. Story, vice-president; J. R. Gudger, secretary; H. K. Russell, first critic; J. L. McLean, second critic; H. M. Wells, first supervisor; R. J. Smith, second supervisor; A. V. Gibson and M. P. Calhoun, marshals. The retiring officers were, President, H. K. Russell; vice-president, J. L. McLean; first critic, J. W. Baldwin; second critic, F. S. Johnson; secretary, E. D. Brown, Jr.; first supervisor, W. G. Houck; second supervisor, J. M. Hendris.

The committee on heating arrangements has decided to purchase a stove for the hall, provided the Metrophilian Society will buy a similar one. The two will furnish adequately all the heat needed for the hall.

METROPHILIAN SOCIETY ELECTS NEW OFFICERS

Omitting the regular program, the meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society on November 7th was wholly given over to the election of officers and other business. For president, Bernhardt, Adams, and Kimsey were nominated. Bernhardt was elected on the first ballot. For vice-president there was nominated C. E. Hodgin, R. L. Price, and Matheson. Hodgin and Price were tied in the third ballot but when Price was elected marshal later in the meeting, the president of the society cast the deciding vote for vice-president by declaring Hodgin elected. N. W. Trawick was elected secretary on the third ballot over four of his classmates, Guiton, Singletary, Gracey, and J. D. Brown. R. P. Kimsey was elected first critic over Burney and McBryde, second critic on the third ballot over Bradford and Henderson. For first and second supervisors were elected J. A. Thompson and H. D. Brown respectively. R. L. Price and Johnnie Adams were elected society marshals for commencement to assist the chief marshal, Burney, who is this year elected by the Metrophilian Society.

The society adopted the report of the inter-society committee for inter-society relations after their reading by Bernhardt, the society member on this committee. One new member, Claude McIntosh, was introduced by Henderson and taken into the society at this meeting. It was also decided by the society to hold its regular meeting hereafter on Tuesday evening at 6:45 p.m.

HERE’S A CHANCE FOR SOMEONE TO WIN $10

The literary department of the Davidsonian has recently received a letter from Mr. Harry E. Harman, of Atlanta, in which he makes an offer of $10 for the best criticism of his new book, “Collected Poems,” which is in the process of publication. The criticism is to appear in this paper. Mr. Harman makes this offer at the suggestion of his publishers. If anyone wishes to try their hand in this contest, call to see the literary editor and further information concerning the contest will be cheerfully given.

EUMANEANS CHOOSE MEN FOR JUNIOR-SENIOR TEAM

At the regular meeting of the Eumanean Literary Society last week L. D. Elkins, Henry Morris, and R. H. Smith were chosen as members of the Junior-Senior debating team to represent the society against the Philanthropic Society on November 21st, in the regular annual debate. After the debating and oratorical program, the society installed its new term officers: D. O. Ogden, president; L. D. Elkins, vice-president; Paul Patterson, secretary; and H. M. Morris, reviewer.

PANDEINICS DISCUSS FAGGING OF FRESHMEN

The debate in the Pandeinic Society this week was carried on entirely by the Freshmen. The subject was, Resolved, That fagging of Freshmen at Davidson College should be abolished. C. F. Monk and L. L. Deck were appointed to take the place of absent debaters. Monk and Shaw upheld the affirmative against Deck and Pitts on the negative. J. B. Thompson delivered a declamation, “The Army of the Potomac.” R. M. Carr gave an oration on “Life,” in which he discussed the different aspects of life and living. O. J. Allison gave a very varied and interesting report on current events. After some discussion, it was decided that the first meeting in each month will be an open meeting, and all members of the faculty are welcome. K. M. Regen, '24, was received into the society. It was announced that in the lot, the affirmative side of the Junior-Senior debate had fallen to the Pandeinics.

NEW POSTOFFICE IS PRACTICALLY COMPLETED

Davidson's new postoffice is practically completed and ready for use. However, no definite information could be secured as to when it will be thrown open to the public, although from reliable sources it was learned that it will open its doors within five weeks. The new postoffice is a one-story brick structure adjoining Henderson's jewelry store. Its location is more convenient for the students of the college and most of the town people than the location of the old postoffice. The new building will add much to the efficiency of the handling of Davidson's ever-increasing bulk of mail.

HARRY RUSSELL SUBMITS ORIGINAL ONE-ACT PLAY

At the meeting of the Sigma Epsilon last Tuesday night a number of appreciative criticisms of much talked of modern plays were given. Bob Davidson gave a splendid criticism of J. M. Barrie's play, “The Twelve Pound Look.” This play has an English setting and deals with life in modern England. In the criticism, the plot was outlined and various characters discussed. “Riders to the Sea,” by Synge, was then criticized in a clear comprehensive way by Hugh Smith. He pointed out the various merits of the play and brought out the true way in which the characters are portrayed. Harry Russell read a brilliant original one-act play dealing with Turkish life of 50 years ago. He kept his audience gasping with the way he presented daring scenes from various of his harems. Needless to say, the audience gave its hearty approval to Russell's production and commended the ingenious manner in which he worked out the exciting plot. Refreshments were served at the conclusion of the program.

P. B. GUTHERY APPOINTED TO MANAGE MAGAZINE

P. B. Guthery has been appointed business manager of the Davidson College Magazine. Last year John Roddy was appointed to this office, but before the beginning of this season he decided to study law at the University of South Carolina and his resignation followed, taking effect at once. E. T. Woolfolk was temporarily appointed to fill this vacancy until the final appointment should be made. Woolfolk has efficiently filled this office during his temporary incumbency and his work has proved very acceptable. Guthery, the new manager, is highly capable and his work during the coming year will no doubt merit the honor and confidence bestowed upon him.

AESCULAPIAN CLUB PLANS BEST YEAR OF HISTORY

At the dark and dismal hour of 10 p.m. on Tuesday, November 7th, the worthy followers of Aesculapius met in Dr. J. M. MacConnell’s classroom to discuss things medical and to hold solemn consultation concerning their plans for the coming year. Some statistics were read about various medical colleges including Johns Hopkins and the University of Pennsylvania. There is a committee busy at work writing a constitution for the club and a pin has been adopted which will be the distinguishing mark of these aspirants to the M. D. degree.

In the club there are 38 members, 35 of whom were present at this meeting, and the officers are: Chief physician, Frank Wildman; interne physician, J. B. Sloan; keeper of medical data, Joe Baldwin; and medical bursar, Harry Wyman. The Aesculapian club has fully awakened from the dormant state in which it has existed for the last two years, as its big increase in membership shows. Every member is enthusiastically looking forward to the best year the club has ever had.

SPANISH CLUB MAKES MANY PLANS FOR YEAR

Immediately after the concert of Mr. Bishop Thursday night, a short business session of the Spanish Club was held in Doctor MacConnell’s classroom. Several committees were appointed and the membership of the club was augmented by the addition of L. D. Elkins and M. S. Beall. The officers of the club for the year are: President, W. M. Heston; secretary, N. A. Currie; and treasurer, George Fleming. With these able officers at its helm, the club hopes to do even greater work this year than last.

“TO HAVE AND TO HOLD” SECURED AS NEXT MOVIE

Those of you who have read “To Have and To Hold” will no doubt appreciate the efforts of the management of the movies to secure this picture produced by George Fitzmaurice and featuring Bert Lytell and Betty Compson. The scene of the picture is Virginia during the early settlement period. In the settlement, there is a certain backwoodsman who hears that girls are brought to America to be sold as wives. He appears on the scene as a spectator and finds some Englishman attempting to kiss one of the girls. He goes...to her rescue and takes her home. At his home, he finds out that she is the daughter of an English nobleman and that she had come to America to escape marrying a man that she did not love. She had taken the place of her maid on the ship. She is treated kindly while at his house. One day they go into town and accidentally see her would-be husband in search of her. He makes repeated attempts to get her to go back to England, but she refuses. She and the American escape on a raft only to be pursued by the Englishman. They are wrecked on an island where the American and Englishman make a temporary truce. On this island, they discover a settlement of pirates wrangling over who is to be their leader. The American succeeds in establishing himself as leader and they set out to sea. They come upon an English vessel and fire upon it. The English ship returns the fire and captures them. The Englishman tells the situation in his favor, but the girl reveals everything and succeeds in getting herself and the American released. They are returned to land and eventually marry.

WILDCAT MINSTREL (Continued from Page 1)

young Indian at Harvard. It is claimed to be a bigger production than “The Sheik.”

WILDCAT MINSTRELS

The Wildcat minstrels abroad, a blackface extravaganza in four acts, will occupy the stage of Shearer Hall on the Saturday night of Senior Speaking, December 2nd. The plans for this, the third Wildcat minstrel, are more promising than for any other previous performance.

This presentation will be a combined undertaking of the Glee Club and the Dramatic Club under the personal direction and supervision of Professor Erwin. The various features of a college minstrel will be presented but in an unusually novel and interesting manner. There will be an abundance of singing, dancing, and comparatively new jokes, but the costumes, the scenery, and the lighting effects will be unusual and new to the Wildcat stage.

The program will be presented in four acts, each one embracing a part of the foreign travels of the Wildcat minstrels. The first act will take place on the Pullman car of a Charlotte-Taylorsville train; the second skips to the midst of the watery wastes of the Pacific Ocean; the third occurs on the much-heralded island of Yap, while the fourth act, the minstrel proper, will occur in the far-off palace of the Sultan of Sarawap.

In every feature, the new Wildcat minstrel bids fair to surpass in every way the efforts of the past. For its novel, beautiful, interesting, and unusual features, it will long be remembered in the history of Davidson dramatics. It might not be too much even to say that it is to be a super-minstrel, combining Chu Chin Chow and the Greenwich Village Follies, and surpassing both.

MR. HAMILTON HOLT SPEAKS (Continued from Page 1)

America after it had recovered from the slump in moral tone that followed the war. In his quiet manner and with no tricks of oratory, the speaker proceeded to paint three vivid word pictures. The first was of the American front in France. Mr. Holt, with some other journalists, went to Secheprey, the first section of the front lines that the Americans held. On the way, they passed through the town of Domremy, the birthplace of Joan of Arc. It was Joan of Arc Day and there were special services in progress at the church. One could almost see the scene as the speaker told of the people gathered there whom these Americans had come to aid in their great struggle. The party proceeded to the American headquarters at Secheprey, where they were taken up to the front lines. Mr. Holt talked with the men and received many messages from them to be passed on to their relatives at home. While there, a colonel told them this story:

The very first night the Americans occupied the front lines, the Germans staged a feint attack. The next night they made a real attack with about 300 men. They were driven back and the next night they came again, this time with 3,000 of their best shock troops, and the Americans were driven back about two miles. A young lieutenant and 370 men with two machine gun outfits were cut off and one of the outfits was surrounded and captured. No one knew what had become of the other. For 48 hours the men were fighting constantly and at the end of that time, they were back in their old position. Two officers went in search of the lost unit. They found the lieutenant. He saluted and apologized for his two days' growth of beard. He reported, “Sir, we are all here, nine living and 28 dead.” The line had been held.

The second story was a sketch of the Peace Conference in session. After going through many formalities, the journalists were finally allowed to look on through a door at the plenary session. This group was a striking contrast to the great Congress of Vienna, which was the only other conference of the sort worthy to be ranked in importance with this one. At the Vienna conference, the important members were kings and princes. At Versailles, the important members were Clemenceau, Editor Petty Lawyer Lloyd George, and Professor Wilson. At the stroke of the appointed hour, Clemenceau, who was presiding, rapped and Wilson rose to read the report of the committee appointed to draft the Covenant of the League of Nations. In a calm, matter-of-fact voice, he read the document through, and turning his face down, spoke in its meaning. He had the two most cynical types possible to speak to, journalists and diplomats, but every eye was riveted upon him as he spoke with suave and polished ease, yet straight from the shoulder. When he ended, there was a complete silence that told the depth of the impression he had made far better than any applause could have done. Cooperation was the central idea of that conference and of the whole world then. But America slumped from her high moral plane and took up her old policy of isolation.

Mr. Holt sees a brighter day for the future and the first indication to him of the dawn of this day was the great ceremony last year on Armistice Day when the Unknown Soldier was buried with what Mr. Holt declared was “the most inspiring ceremony, the most patriotic pageant, and the most touching funeral ever held.” But after this ceremony came one that was significant of a turn in the minds of men. Without pomp, without any committee on arrangements, but spontaneously, full 15,000 people went to the home of the man whose ideals America had repudiated one year before. Although they could not see him, these people stayed in the street from 3:30 o'clock in the afternoon until after dark simply looking at the house and the window, behind which there was a man too weak to come out and speak to them, although he made the effort.

Mr. Wilson has done four things for which he should be remembered and honored, if for no others. These are: First, he focused the heterogeneous ideas of the American people into one idea and by the sheer power of this idea he was able to lead the world. Second, by his declaration that the U.S. was going into the war to save the world and not for her own gain, he placed the U.S. on a moral plane hitherto unequaled. Third, he drove a wedge between the people of Germany and the Hohenzollerns. Fourth, he enunciated the terms upon which peace would be made. Samuel Gompers is authority for the statement that there would have been labor revolutions in France and England if Wilson had not proclaimed his Fourteen Points. He saved life by negotiating peace instead of waiting to dictate it, and yet did not lose any advantage that the latter course might have brought.

The League cannot, will not, die. There is no other way to settle international problems. It must be the League or nothing. It is the bright spot in Europe and America is gradually coming back to this idea. Our forefathers thought independence of so much value that they were willing to pledge to it their “lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.” America needs to pledge hers for a new independence. And if she does so, then her boys will not have died in vain.

Davidson’s Reputation

It’s keeping is in our hands. Remember that fact when you write home, to your girl, to your friends in other schools—watch for that little slip. When you are away from “The Hill” remember that you are Davidson incarnate. Your deeds, your words, your thoughts, are those of Old Davidson—be sure that you are proud of them.

WHY IS THE WACHOVIA?

To serve the wide-spread needs of men, women, and business concerns of the Carolinas for thoroughly modern and dependable banking, trust, and investment service. You are cordially invited to use our facilities.

The WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO. NORTH CAROLINA

Winston-Salem
Asheville
Raleigh
Salisbury
High Point