ae Water | THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. IX. No. 25 DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 24, 1922. Dr. R. H. H. Goheen Talks TELEPHONE FOR STUDENTS Thos. Archie Freeman Is Popular Baseball Leader Davidson Downs All-Stars at “Y” on Medical Work In First Game; Score 6-4 The Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity held its regular meeting Tuesday night, March 7th, at the residence of Dr. J. M. Douglas. The meeting was entirely taken up with business. The speaker at the “Y” service last Sunday was Dr. Robert H. H. Goheen, a medical missionary to India. By presenting India’s need for doctors in a forceful way, and relating a number of his personal experiences, he held the attention of the audience throughout the entire service. After graduating from the University of Chicago and taking a medical course in this country and a special course in London, Doctor Goheen was immediately placed in charge of an Indian hospital containing 125 beds and a medical school of 40 students. He performed 26 operations his first day. It was not long, however, until he was sent to a district entirely void of doctors. At first he met such great opposition that few patients would come to him, but gradually his work expanded until now he operates a leper asylum, a high school, a tubercular hospital and a dispensary. Through a slow process the lepers are being healed. The asylum accommodates 45 patients. The school, now operated by a Christian Indian, is doing splendid work. The tubercular hospital consists of 7 buildings and accommodates 23 patients. In the dispensary over 2,000 are treated annually. The speaker gave some interesting information concerning India’s caste system. It was originated by the Brahmins over 3,000 years ago to keep their race pure, but now in its complexity there are over 2,000 castes, to which 175,000,000 people belong. In addition to these, on the lowest rung of the social ladder, there are 53,000,000 outcasts in India. The fraternity has succeeded in its efforts to obtain a telephone booth. It has been installed just within the front door of the gymnasium and will fill a long felt need on the campus. D. R. LaFar has been recently initiated into the fraternity and H. H. Smith, S. R. Sloan and R. M. McGirt, have been pledged. Shaw gave a review of Zane Grey’s latest novel, “To the Last Man.” The speaker discussed Strickland’s “Queen Victoria.” Paul gave a talk on Bernard Shaw’s “Back to Methuselah,” one of the most talked of books that has been placed before the public in some time. Following the reviews, Professor Davidson opened her 1922 season Saturday by taking a practice game from the Mecklenburg County All-Stars. The collegians showed up well for such an early game, but had some difficulty in connecting with the benders and slants served up by Currie and White. Their harvest for the day was six safe bingles, several of the scratch variety. Sorrells started and held the All-Stars scoreless and to a trio of hits in the first three innings, while McPherson gave up but one blow and a run in the three concluding frames. The rest of the county lads’ hits and runs were made off Boushee. The Wildcats were on their toes throughout the game and, despite six bones that they pulled, gave promise of a strong year. Several old Davidson stars were seen in the All-Star lineup. Currie pitched well for them and the big right fielder looped out his share of hits. The Wildcats made their debut into the season in a manner that their first game indicates they will settle down to a winning gait. Several old Davidson stars were seen in the All-Star lineup. Currie pitched well for them and the big right fielder looped out his share of hits. Harry Caldwell was in the center and appeared in a new role in the game. As a batter Harry has always been regarded as a fair talker. However, he nicked the old apple for two safeties in Saturday's game. T. A. Freeman, popularly known among the students as “Archie,” has been elected to pilot this year’s baseball team. Born and reared in Mecklenburg County, the boy from that section is captain of the team. Captain “Archie” started his baseball career in high school, where he played first base. Then after coming to Davidson, he absorbed three of them in the big boy gave the other a well jolt that put it on and he cantered around to the barrier before it was returned to the infield. Mme. Hammer and Co. Present Ibsen’s Ghosts Rolf Fjell in Powerful Role Ibsen’s great drama, “Ghosts” was given a most convincing interpretation at Shearer Hall last Tuesday night by Madame Sorgny Hammer, the well-known Norwegian actress, and a well-balanced company, including Rolf Fjell in the role of Engstrand, a carpenter. The acting of Mr. Fjell in the part of Engstrand was a revelation of what Ibsen has put into the speeches of his character. In his easy command of the stage, his well-timed and effective pauses and his general handling of the various situations, Mr. Fjell showed himself a master actor. Madame Hammer as Mrs. Alving was superb in her role. The great love of a mother for her son was acted with a restrained intensity that was overwhelming at times. She spoke our language fluently, clearly, often with distinction, always with only a trace of the accent of the foreigner. The acting The music lovers of Davidson were treated to a rare entertainment on last Saturday evening in Shearer Hall when Mrs. Franceska Kaspar Lawson appeared here for the first time in a song recital. The concert was given under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. and the proceeds were used for defraying the expenses of its publications. The men who put on the recital are to be congratulated upon securing such wonderful talent as the audience saw in Mrs. Lawson. Franceska Kaspar Lawson, soprano, of Washington, D.C. presented a program worthy of any stage in the country. She was accompanied in a most charming manner by Miss Ubel at the piano. Mrs. Lawson is easily the best soprano heard here in a long time.Davidson has played class baseball in recent years and much of the credit goes to his realization. The speaker, Hammer, has many evidences of his freshman year and easily won a place on the scrub team his sophomore year. In the manner in which she presented India, she did not stand alone in her need for doctors. In Korea, 30 hospitals are closed because of the scarcity of doctors. The city of Atlanta has almost half as many doctors as the nation of China with its millions. There was never a moment when the audience was not eagerly interested in the progress of the play. The scenery was rigidly simple, the costumes plain, the acting sincere, and the story went straight to the hearts of the listeners. 

Freeman is not only a good athlete but takes part in other activities on campus. He is a member of the Phi Literary Society and was elected chief marshal from that society this year. Captain "Archie" is an all-around man and a Christian gentleman. He will make a good pilot for the Wildcats.

Mrs. La is not only an artist of note in Wilmington, but all her family are musicians. Her father, Joseph, was one of the leading violin teachers in the capital, and her mother was formerly head of the voice department.

In addition to addressing the Y.M.C.A., the Ministerial Band, the Volunteer Band, the Ministerial Band, and the entire Sunday School, the student body at chapel on Monday, and the Biology department on Monday morning, he also had 20-minute personal interviews with students. He had planned to be in Davidson until Tuesday but left on Monday for a special service at Trinity that night. He is spending his furlough traveling in the interests of the Student Volunteer movement.

THE WILDCAT SCREAMS

When the crack of the bat announces the return of the king of sports, the old diamond began to fill with sluggers. The executive committee of the Athletic Association began to cast around for material for Manager McGeachy's staff. After the smoke of the battle had cleared away and things became calmer, the names of the following men were approved: Fewell, Elliott, Woolfolk, Simmons, Davidson, and Russell. Davidson withdrew on account of other duties, and the race was between the other five. After the ballot cast by the student body, Elliott and Fewell were elected, and the old aggregation is assured a competent managerial staff.

As was done in 1893, the Junior class this year has been divided into two groups—literary society men and society men. This was made necessary because of the fact that only society men are allowed to compete for the Junior Orator's medal, one of the most prized honors that a student can receive. Already all but 16 have been weeded out by the preliminary contests. These 16 will speak at Junior Speaking, and four of them will be chosen to speak at commencement for the much-prized position. The 16 men still in the running are strong contenders.

WELCOME, SPEAKING GUESTS!