THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 13, 1922

Alumni News

Christian Activities

MARRIAGES:
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Tyson Wilson announce the marriage of their daughter, Evelyn Tyson, to Mr. William Armstrong Price, Jr., ’09, on Thursday, the fifteenth of December, nineteen hundred and twenty-one, at the Washington Cathedral, Washington, D. C.

BIRTHS:
A son was born to Mr. and Mrs. Walter S. Somerville, '16, on November 19, 1921. They named him Atwell Wilson. Rev. Mr. Somerville is doing graduate work at Princeton University.

Mr. and Mrs. K. J. Foreman announce the arrival on December 28, 1921, of Kenneth Joseph, Jr. That date is also remembered as the birthday of the greatest Davidson alumnus, Woodrow Wilson.

HERE AND THERE:
Dr. J. P. Munroe, '82; Dr. H. W. McKay, ’06; Dr. Oren Moore, ’08, and L. H. Wilkerson, ’13, were on the hill Monday in the interest of athletics.

Rev. R. P. Smith, D.D., ’73, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Asheville, N. C., was the recipient of several surprises Christmas in the way of gifts. His congregation gave him a comfortable chair and to his wife they gave a set of silver. One generous member of the congregation gave him a check for $500.

S. A. Robinson, ’99, was last week elected president of the Chamber of Commerce of Gastonia, N. C.

H. A. Query, ’07, was recently elected a director of the Gastonia Chamber of Commerce. He is editor of the Gastonia Daily Gazette.

W. W. Morris, ’92, was on the campus recently. He has a son in college, W. W. Morris, Jr., ’25.

Shelby T. McCloy, ’18, spent the Christmas holidays in Germany. He is at Oxford University and is traveling over Europe during the six weeks’ Christmas holidays of his university.

C. P. Carothers, ex-'24, is working in Selma, Ala.

H. A. Hill, ’21, is at 904 Lexington Avenue, New York.

S. H. Askew, ’20, professor in the Darlington school at Rome, Ga., visited friends in Selma, Ala., during the holidays.

Z. A. Morris, ’82, was present at the opening of college. He has two sons in college, Z. A., Jr., ’23, and R. H., ’24. His home is Concord, N. C.

P. D. McCloy, ex-’23, has finished a course in the Pace College of Finance, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. He will enter Davidson College again next fall.

Rev. J. A. McQueen, ’05, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Orange, Va.

Rev. C. B. Yeargan, ’06, has a pastorate in Cynthiana, Ky.

D. L. Watson, ex-’13, is now a cotton broker at Wasson, N. C.

Rev. N. N. Fleming, ’12, has moved from Pinetop, N. C., to Winter Park, Wilmington, N. C.

Rev. J. C. Hines, ’12, has moved from Hatcher, Ky., to McGregor, Tex.

Franklin Fricker, ’21, is principal of the high school in Huntington, Md. Fricker is remembered by the upper classmen as the holder of the track record for the one-mile run. He has recently been stumping his county in the interest of an equalization bill for Maryland. He has been interested recently in the organization of an alumni chapter in Baltimore, Md.

In the December number of the N. C. Bulletin, Davidson librarian, Miss Cornelia Shaw, has a delightful paper on British Libraries.

DR. HOOD’S BIBLE CLASS LESSON GIVEN IN OUTLINE
Read I Kings 18:1-46, Elijah’s Challenge.

1. First challenge was to the people that they make test of their profession. “If the Lord be God, follow him; but if Baal, then follow him.” In other words, a man’s religion ought to be deep enough to instigate action. We too often acquiesce in a religious plan or a religious dogma, but how many of us take it seriously enough to make us act on our professed principles. This then is Elijah’s first challenge: If you have any religion at all, show it by following; by actually acting upon your belief. “And the people answered him not a word.”

2. The second challenge was to produce evidence sufficiently strong for an intellectual decision as to who is God—Jehovah or Baal. The first challenge was too high. The second was pitched on a lower plane, on things done, that took the eye and had the price found straightway to its mind, could value in a trice.” It seems to me a sad commentary upon the spiritual condition of Israel that only such a test as Elijah proposed would be acceptable. But the prophet shows his skill in selecting a test, crude as it was, was yet the only one that would arouse the people.

3. Elijah’s success is to be attributable to the same power that has always won moral victory—faith.in God. His faith in God is shown (1) by his very courage in making the challenge; (2) by the uncertainty exhibited that his would be answered.

4. Effect upon the people. It aroused them to verbal action, but as we shall see subsequently, the success of the challenge, judged by the permanency of the effects, was doubtful. Low motives may sometimes get action when high ones fail, but unless the higher are finally acted on, the action aroused is not worth anything. Every man comes with some personally derived lesson from the study of this passage.

D. MISSION STUDY COURSE PUT ON BY “Y” FOR NINE WEEKS

In its mission study course this spring, the Y. M. C. A. plans to study our own church’s work on the foreign field, using our own publications as textbooks. The course will cover nine weeks, the first six being studies of our various fields, and the last three being surveys of our education, medical, and industrial work. Classes will be held on the various floors every Wednesday night, as usual, but the leader’s class will be taught by students this year instead of faculty leaders. These leaders will be J. C. Wool, on China; D. H. Ogden, on Korea; J. H. McKeithen, on Japan; P. D. Miller, on Brazil; V. C. Haye, on Mexico; Ed. Cunningham, on Medical Missions, and Jas. Sprunt, on Educational Missions. The students will be glad to note that the money to pay for the literature has been secured from the Y. M. C. A. and other sources, so that the pamphlets used will be given out without charge to the students. The course is designed to give the ordinary layman’s working knowledge of what our church is doing on the foreign field, and should be of great interest to all.

One bright spot for the boys who spent their holidays in Davidson was the arrival of the college girls, Misses Nancy Grey, Ellen Black, Mildred Hobbs, Ruth Henderson, Charlotte Cranford, Elizabeth Cranford, Winifred Potts, Sarah Lingle, Lera Hobbs, and others.

SHOES FURNISHINGS

We are ready in this line. Army Shoes and Tennis Shoes. We also have a line of Knox & Barnette shoes.

CLEARANCE SALE of Men’s and Young Men’s Suits and Overcoats

$19.95
This season’s new models. Men’s and Young Men’s Overcoats. Original prices up to $50.00. Clearance Sale Price $29.50, $25.00, and $19.95. Men’s and Young Men’s Suits. Original prices to $50.00. $29.50, $25.00, and $19.95. Men’s Pants, $2.95. See counter. Men’s and Young Men’s Odd Pants. Now $2.95. Values to $5.00. Men’s Hats, $2.95. See counter. Men’s and Young Men’s Fine Felt Hats, values to $5.00, now $2.95. Sport Wool Sox, now 50c. Sheep Lined Coats, $9.95 and $12.95. Outing Night Shirts reduced to 98c and $1.50. Men’s Overshoes, $1.00. Ralston, Reynolds, and Belk Shoes, including the Brogue styles, at $12.00, $10.00, $6.50, and $4.95. Ladies’ $1.25 and $1.50. Children’s Overshoes, 75c, 85c, and 98c. Umbrellas for Men, Women, and Children, $1.00 and up. Overshoes, 50c to $1.25.

Mrs. J. M. McConnell, who was taken to the Charlotte Sanatorium in December, has recently returned to her home in good health again. Her friends and acquaintances are glad to hear of Mrs. McConnell’s recovery.

Cluett, Peabody & Co. Inc. Troy, NY.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

BELK BROS. CO.

White’s Meat Market
BEST FRESH MEATS DELIVERED
Phone DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Home of Better Values

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Established 1873
A. H. Fetting Manufacturing Jewelry Co.
Manufacturers Greek Letter Fraternity Jewelry
213 N. Liberty Street
BALTIMORE, MD.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

GIFTS THAT LAST
Gifts of Jewelry and gifts that last. I can supply your needs in this line, and invite your inspection. Most complete line of Xmas cards in town.
W. S. HENDERSON
JEWELER
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“After Every Meal”
WRIGLEY’S

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FLXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
75 Chambers

Central Hotel Cigar Stand
Selwyn Hotel Cigar Stand
Joe D. Smith, Mgr.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

L. A. ELLIOTT
SEE ME FOR YOUR FEEDS
I’ve got all the supplies for them
CANDIES
FRUITS
PICKLES
SANDWICHES