THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 17, 1922

ALUMNI NEWS

PROFESSOR JOSEPH MARION MOORE IS HONORED ALUMNUS

Prof. Joseph Marion Moore, 1891, is one of Davidson’s most distinguished educators. He was born in McConnellsville, South Carolina, and attended school there until he came to Davidson in 1886. He did not receive his A.B. degree in 1890, but came back and received both his A.B. and M.A. degrees in 1891. In taking his M.A. degree he specialized in English Literature under Dr. W. S. Currell, who is now president of the University of S. C.

As a student, Mr. Moore was interested in literary and educational subjects as well as developing into an interesting and attractive speaker. In his Junior year, he won a rep at the Junior oratorical exercises. After leaving college, Mr. Moore went to Columbia Seminary, of Columbia, S. C., but left at Christmas to take up teaching as a profession. He taught two years in Kentucky and then held several responsible positions in the public schools of South Carolina.

He married Miss Ashe, of York County, South Carolina, a former student at Mary Baldwin Seminary, of Staunton, Va. They have three sons and two daughters. In 1913, Mr. Moore was called from the superintendency of the schools of Beaufort, S. C., to the head of Mitchell College, of Statesville, N. C. He has successfully conducted that institution for the past eight years. Under his administration, the school has grown in size and increased its standards of scholarship. He is an elder in the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville and is the successful teacher and leader of the Men’s Bible Class of that church.

Mr. Moore has several prominent nephews who are Davidson men. Among these are: Dr. J. W. Moore, who practices medicine in Louisville, Ky.; J. P. Moore, who teaches school in McConnellsville, S. C.; and J. S. Moore, captain of the Wildcat eleven for next year.

The trustees of Mitchell College decided recently to change the system of administration, and as Mr. Moore did not apply for the position of president, it was given to Rev. W. F. Hollingsworth, who graduated at Davidson in 1890. Mr. Moore has been offered the presidency of Sayre College, in Kentucky, but it is not known yet whether or not he will accept the position.

HERE AND THERE

R. K. Timmons is dean of Arkansas College, Batesville, Arkansas. Three other Davidson men are on the faculty there: John B. Daffin, professor of chemistry; D. M. Frierson, professor of mathematics; and A. D. McArn, professor of Latin.

Lloyd Christenbury, Wildcat star a few years ago, has reported to the camp of the Boston Braves in St. Petersburg, Fla. for spring training. He led his league in batting average, as a pinch hitter, last year, and there is a possibility of his being on the regular line-up this year.

L. M. Thomas, 1918; A. P. Ormond, 1921; and A. J. Warner, ex-1924, are students at Emory University, of Atlanta, Ga. H. H. Caldwell, 1910, is registrar at the Georgia School of Technology, of Atlanta; Houston White, 1921, is an instructor in Tech High School; B. E. Shields, 1920, is with the Liggett-Myers Tobacco Co., there; Sidney Lanier, 1913, is with the Southern Chemical Co.; Dr. C. R. Beall, 1918, is in the Public Health Service, and many others are prominent in educational and business life of that city.

T. R. McNeil, 1915, is with the Union Carbide Co., of Niagara Falls, N. Y. N. T. Armistead, ex-1918, is to be married on the 23rd of April.

H. A. Dishrough, 1918, is to graduate in medicine at Columbia University this spring.

Classes of '17, '12, ’07, ’02, ’97, ’92, '87, '82, '77, '72, '67, and ’62, are reminded that this is their year for reunions. As has been stated in these columns, the Alumni luncheon will be held on the first of June and any alumnus that wishes to may leave on either the 4:05 p.m. or the 8:06 p.m. train for Charlotte. Accommodations will be given all who wish to stay for the whole of the occasion, so it is up to everyone who can possibly do so, to be there and join in the festivities. Examinations are to last through commencement and with 500 students and as many more alumni, things ought to be lively at that time.

H. K. Aiken, 1918, will graduate at Cornell in chemical engineering this spring. J. P. Williams, 1916, and his wife, stopped over between trains to visit friends last week. W. Frank Hall, 1920, is associated with his father in the mill business in Statesville, N. C.

The Alumni Association of Salisbury, N. C.,has contributed liberally toward purchasing uniforms for the High School team of that town. Their example is to be recommended as a good means of getting athletes interested in Davidson College.

ALUMNI PRESIDENT URGES CLASSES TO HAVE REUNIONS

Alumni Editor, Davidson, N. C.,

Dear Sir:

I note from the catalog that the meeting and luncheon of the Alumni Association will be held on 1st June, at 1 o’clock p.m. This, I am glad to say, is a much better arrangement than we have ever previously had for the meeting. It should give us more time, without interference, for the transaction of the business of the association, and this we have needed for a long time. I wish that you would exert your efforts, every week, in The Davidsonian, for a number of class reunions this year and for a large attendance of the alumni. If I can help you in any way, then advise me.

Yours very truly,
R. M. MILLER, JR.,
Pres, Alumni Asso.

CAMPUSISMS.

R. R. Clarke, ’19, spent Monday on the hill visiting his brother, C. M. Clarke, '24. Rufus, a former Wildcat pitcher, is on his way to Winston-Salem to report for spring training with the Baltimore Orioles, for whom he has been playing for the past two seasons.

Dr. J. M. Wells, president of Columbia Seminary, was the guest of Dr. Richards for a short while Monday.

Mrs. Robson reports that the Infirmary is losing its popularity since the recent epidemic of colds is about over. There were six fellows there as the paper went to press.

President G. E. Weeks, of the State Volunteer Union, spent the weekend on the hill.

WORSHIP A LA MODE.

Margaret, aged five, had been interested in an explanation of how her mother’s social obligations could be simplified by the skilled use of calling cards. The next day she attended Church for the first time and was tired out before the lengthy service ended. At bedtime, she talked over with her mother her first visit to the Lord’s house.

“Mother,” she asked, “does the Lord expect us to call at His house every day?”

“Yes, Margaret, every Sunday,” was the reply.

TOWN NEWS.

Miss Lucy Shumaker spent the weekend with relatives in Mooresville.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss Hattie Thompson last Friday evening. Miss Cornelia Shaw, Miss Vinson, and Mrs. Withers were on the program.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young are on a week’s visit to relatives in Concord.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle spoke in the First Presbyterian Church of Wilmington last Sunday. His subject was “The Progressive Program.” Dr. Arbuckle is an enthusiastic worker in the Laymen’s Movement.

Mrs. Frazer Hood has returned from a visit to her brother in Mississippi. Her friends are pleased to learn that her brother, who was very ill, is now on the sure road to recovery.

Mrs. Ellis entertained in a delightful manner the Concord Sewing Club on Wednesday afternoon.

SUCCESS.

To render meritorious service and refrain from egotism—to appreciate recognition but scorn applause—to study earnestly and produce conscientiously—to do your work well, as much for the love of the work itself as for your reward—to practice self-denial and grant benevolent consideration to others; that is the principle of progress that pushes men up the ladder of success. None need fear that they will not fully share in the progress they promote; for every man’s work is a silent and insistent declaration of his true worth.—Selected.

He labors hard there at his desk,
And figures, fumes, and frets,
For in the spring a student’s fancy
Lightly turns to thoughts of—debts.

WRIGLEY'S

The world's best chewing gum with peppermint sugar coat. Sugar jacket “melts in your mouth,” aiding digestion, brightening teeth, and soothing mouth and throat.

FOR ALL COLD TROUBLES

VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
Phone 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

WINGO’S EVER-STICK PATCH

A wonderful sticking surface and 36 square inches of pure rubber. A substantial screw top box. A money-back guarantee with every box. Retail everywhere for 50c.

J. S. WINGO
Spartanburg, S. C.

Have those old shoes made new by the SHU-FIXERY
Charlotte, N. C.
Local agent J. W. Phillips
Will call at your room

Patronize Our Advertisers

Keeping faith with the SMOKER

Our lifelong knowledge of choice tobaccos, our years of manufacturing experience, and our up-to-date facilities are concentrated on making CAMEL the finest cigarette that can be produced. Into THIS ONE BRAND—ONE QUALITY, we put the utmost quality. A better cigarette cannot be made—at any price. For men who think for themselves, CAMEL is the cigarette of choice.