THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 24, 1922.

Peanut Parcher

My mind’s a blank, my senses gone,
So excuse, dear reader, what follows here along.

The Same Old Question.
What has become of the old-fashioned boy who used to ask you to have a drink down at the Drug
Store?

A Secret.
John Bailey informs the Parcher that Bishop Lowry’s home brew is coming on nicely.

The New Dormitory.
Crown Prince—“Well, Buck, what do you think of the excavations?”
Buchanan—“They are pretty good as a whole.”

Battling Hoye and Hurricane Davis promise a return engagement soon. Date hasn’t been decided upon yet.

In Chapel.
Bob Davidson—“We want all you boys to have girls up and we will look after them.”

“That'll hold her,” said Pharaoh as he hitched his mule to the Sphinx.

Latin.
Yip—“Well, I have got to take Horace.”
Yap—“Horace who?”
Yip—“To Charlotte and back.”

Working.
Tobe and the laundry are about to work themselves to death this week. It’s a good thing Junior Speaking comes
but once a year.

The Carnival.
Tucker, McCuen, Young, and Sam Story are all trying for the place as the wild man from Borneo in the
Junior carnival.

Going Some.
Walter Knox—“Spratt, you sure can pitch.”
Spratt—“I ought to be able to; I hit the bat every time I throw a ball.”

Heard On Sprunt Field.
“A man on third—one down,” he said, “We'll have to work a squeeze.”
“But Johnny, dear, don’t do it here—It’s much too public—please.”

Information.
Enoch informs the Parcher his girl will be in Friday night in time for the show.

A Big Time.
It is rumored that Flop Beaver plans to have his hair cut before speaking. Graduation exercises in a local correspondence
school are to be held some time in near future.

The Parcher advises everyone to use any method they know of to scare off the rain this week-end.

“Good Byecycle.”
First One—Hay, fever!
Second One—How do you dewberry?
First One—Oh, I’m well-bucket!

First One—Junior Speaking brings to our mind the fact that girls are generally speaking—
Second One—Yes, generally speaking is right.

First—Aha, drunk again. You haven’t tasted water in so long that I'll bet you don’t know what it is!
Second—Sure I do, it’s what they put under bridges.

Historic.
A certain class was recently dismissed after roll was called. The members of the class told Bill Ramsey he was
not going to be shot.

For Rent—Post office box. See Frank Wildman.

Miss Ruth Henderson and Miss Ellen Black are home from school for the week-end.

Monday morning Dr. J. H. H. Goheen, medical missionary to India, addressed the biology students and discussed for them some
of the important and serious physical troubles that are prevalent in India and are of great economical importance. According to
facts, and Doctor Goheen’s actual experiences, the most common and serious diseases are pyorrhea, malaria, kalazar, phalaria, leprosy and intestinal
parasite troubles. All of these diseases are known to be contracted, directly or indirectly, by parasites or germs, of which
the most common is the ameba.

In the case of pyorrhea we know that it is a disease that affects the gums. This trouble spreads and
causes more complicated trouble. By the wonderful work of doctors of today, certain chemicals have been discovered that aid in
curing this trouble.

Malaria is found to be caused by a plasmodium parasite and resides in the red blood cells of the body.
It is known that only the female of one certain kind of mosquito carries the malaria germ. This germ prefers
to reside in the spleen of the body and causes high fever. The important fact concerning malaria is that there
has been found an almost certain cure. The old way of handling malaria was giving a great amount of quinine
through the mouth to reduce the fever, but now a much better system has been found, that of injecting quinine
into the veins.

Intestinal parasite, more commonly known as hookworm, is a trouble that 25 per cent of the people of India are
affected with. It is a most horrible and loathsome disease, some patients having as many as 200 worms, between six
and eight inches long, within the intestines.

Leprosy is a bacterial disease and not parasitic. It is a very slow disease; that is, it is in the
patient a great while before it can be pronounced as leprosy. Because of the wonderful work of great doctors, there
has at last been found a cure. It is a fluid that is injected into the veins and must be
carefully done.

His lecture was greatly enjoyed by all the members of the class and while the work is not advanced as
far as the study of other diseases, it is progressing.

TRACK SQUAD HAS BEEN REDUCED TO FIFTEEN MEN

Ellis, attached to the R. O. T. C. unit at the college. Captain Ellis was formerly a star distance man
for Alleghany College (Pennsylvania). Under these two and team Captain Knight, the wealth of promising new material is being whipped
into shape to aid the five letter men who are back.

This year it would seem that the Wildcats will be strongest in the distance events. McBryde, who set a new
college record for the two-mile last year when only a Freshman, is in excellent form and is determined to lower
his time another notch or two. Either Sprunt or Roberts will be able to take care of the mile, and
Galloway, who lost State honors last year by less than a second, is in good shape for the half-mile.

The loss of last year’s dash men is keenly felt. Several promising new men are out for the speed events,
though, and there is a chance that the Wildcats may not be so lacking in them after all. Koenig, who
starred last year for Greensboro (N.C.) High; Hoye, a 440 man recruited from Mississippi A. and M.; Haye and Wyman
seem to be the most promising.

The field events are in the competent hands of McGukin of last year’s team; Gracey and Lake. Not so the
hurdles, where the lack of good men is giving the coaches much concern; neither Crawford nor Davis,the best men available,
is ing of diseases, it opens the way for showing more than ordinary form. Team students to look ahead and
see what Captain Knight, a big six-footer, and a great work has been done and what still veteran of more
than one Wildcat track is to be done. team, is fully capable of taking care of the weight events. The
Athletic Council has announced that this year a squad of 15 men will represent the Wildcats at all foreign meets.
It has announced a schedule that calls for four meets, only one of which will be staged at Davidson; as
follows: April 8—V. P.I., at Blacksburg. April 15—N. C. State, at Davidson April 22—U. of S. C., at Columbia. May
4—North Carolina State meet at Durham.

DOCTOR GOHEEN ADDRESSES MEN IN BIOLOGY COURSES

Coach Grey has cut Davidson’s 1922 track team from about 50 to 30 men within the past week. Thus far
field training has been much hampered by the prevalent rainy weather; so much so that it was deemed inadvisable to
enter a team in the big indoor meet at Durham. However, with the brighter days of the past week stiffer
workouts have been possible, in consequence of which the team is rapidly taking shape and should be in good trim
for the first meet of the season, which is with V. P. I., at Blacksburg, on the 8th of April.
Coach Grey, a weight man in his college days, is being assisted by Captain D.

SPECIAL PROGRAM WILL BE PRESENTED NEXT MEETING

Contrary to the usual custom the Phi program began with an oration instead of a debate last Thursday night. J.
W. Baldin in a flowery speech described the beautiful scenery, the great men, and the many opportunities for young men
in North Carolina. He led the imaginations of his hearers from the summits of the mountains to the plains of
the coast. In the debate which followed, Johnston, F. S., and Brown, W. P., were successful in upholding the affirmative
against J. L. McLean and G. P. Hendrix. The query was, Resolved: That the present agreement between England and Ireland
is more desirable than total Irish independence. The main point at issue seemed to be whether or not Ireland could
have real freedom while remaining in the British empire. Gibson next gave that classic declamation, “Casey at the Bat.” The
last number was an oration on “Relations between France and Germany,” by C. G. Brown. This was especially interesting because
he was able to give arguments in proof of his points from personal observation. It was decided to have a
special program at the next meeting. No information was given as to the nature of this program since the president
declared.

EUMENEANS ELECT DEBATERS FOR MEET WITH PANDEINICS

At the meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society last week, J. M. Richards, W. T. Elliott, and A. M. Hillhouse
were selected to represent the Senior, Junior, and Sophomore classes, respectively, in the inter-society program to be held next week
between the Eumeneans and the Pandeinics. The feature of the program was the orations; Biddle spoke on “Educating the Red
Man;” McGukin, “Commencement;” and Cooper, “Dawning.”

Weekly meetings to study the problem of alcoholism are held at Queens University, Belfast, Ireland. Similar groups meet at the
University of Basel, Switzerland; the University of Brussels, Belgium; the University of Tubingen, Germany, and at universities in several other
European countries.

Columbia Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
Columbia, South Carolina

Columbia and Davidson have been close friends for nearly one hundred years. Many of the students from our controlling synods
attend Davidson. Some of Davidson's finest men have finished their studies at this School of the Prophets. Columbia Seminary invites
candidates for the Ministry to a cheerful spiritual atmosphere. Harmony and good-will permeate the entire Seminary organization. The members of
the Board of Directors from South Carolina, Georgia, Alabama and Florida are active and interested. We have a complete Faculty
and a happy, hard-working, high-type student body. Fall term opens September 20, 1922. Necessary expenses about $150. Scholarships awarded to
worthy students. Send for latest catalogue.

PAUL AND PAULINE in “A Dainty Aerial Oddity”
THE DAVIS TRIO “The Sunshine Boys”
Wallace BRADLEY & Grette ARDINE With John Irwing Fisher in “Follies of Songs and Dance”

ACADEMY Keith Vaudeville PROGRAM
Thurs. Fri., Sat., Mar. 23rd, 24th, 25th.
B. F.
Gertrude MEEHAN & NEWMAN in “Broken Promises”
OVERTURE
PATHE NEWS AND HAROLD LLOYD
VAN AND BELLE in “Noah's Ark”

The Observer Printing House Incorporated
Printing and Engraving
Observer Building
33 South Church Street
B. R. Cates, Manager
Charlotte, N.C.

POLLYANNA CAFETERIA

Here you will find a real Old North State, smothered chicken dinner; vegetables and desserts cooked with that delicious flavor,
peculiar to real North Carolina cooks, served in home style.

Meal hours:
Breakfast 7:30 to 9
Dinner 11:45 to 2:30
Supper 5:30 to 8
every day at reasonable prices
Miss Janie Matthews
Miss Lottie Hart
New Central Hotel Second Floor

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
Furniture, Carpets, Rugs, Pianos, Victrolas and Victor Records
We send records on approval. Write for special service plan
Parker-Gardner Co., Charlotte, N.C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

OF SPECIAL INTEREST TO COLLEGE MEN

New Models in Fall Suits designed and fashioned by manufacturers who specialize in young men’s apparel—fine garments built up to
the exacting requirements demanded by this store. An Unusual Display at $35, $40, $45 Featuring the new 4-button sack model
in novelty tweeds and crashes. Ideal college clothes

HATS FURNISHINGS SHOES
THE TATE-BROWN Co.

A Victrola In Your Home
Gives access to the best music in all the world produced by the Greatest Artists
Pianos, Player-Pianos, String Instruments, Sheet Music and Everything in Music
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
213 N. Tryon St.
Phone 3626
Charlotte, N.C.

TRY SOUTHERN LIFE SERVICE
Let our representative explain our famous thrift policies. They have an appeal which you can’t get away from.
Southern Life and Trust Company
GREENSBORO, N.C.
REPRESENTED IN CHARLOTTE BY
CHARLOTTE BRANCH OFFICE
Box 553
W. J. Spencer, Mgr.
A HOME BUILDER
