ROUNCE TRINITY SONIAN | D.C 7 VP 7 FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 26, 1922 No. 6

MALCOLM LOCKHART SPEAKS TO STUDENTS AT “Y” VESPER

Director of Campaign for Chambers Speaks on Existing Circumstances Confronting College Men

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, chairman of the Davidson Campaign Committee, was the inspiring speaker at the Y. M. C. A. meeting held in Shearer Hall Sunday evening. Harry Russell, of the “Y” Cabinet, presided over the meeting, while Buck Currie led the singing. Cecil Dew and Mill offered prayer for God’s blessings on the meeting. Bob McLeod, Buck Currie, Vic Brown, and Ted Jones made up the quartette whose music the audience enjoyed.

In beginning his address, Mr. Lockhart brought to the minds of his hearers the fact that religious experiences, as well as experiences of other natures, are vital factors in the life of man. He cited some of his own difficulties in earlier life and pointed to the Bible, the Holy Word of God, as the answer to all the questions of life, of whatever nature they be. At this point, the speaker cited Hebrews 11:14, “For as much then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil.” He also cited Ezekiel 28:17, “Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty, thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I will cast thee to the ground, I will lay thee before kings, that they may behold thee.”

“The world,” said Mr. Lockhart, “has got out of the atmosphere in which it was created by God. This it has been done under the leadership of Satan. Woman believed the devil, and man, through his love of the woman, was led to disobey God.” He spoke of the love story of Adam and Eve as the greatest love story of all time. “By this falling away of man, God’s creation was blighted, and man was withdrawn from fellowship with his Maker. This was caused by man’s lack of faith. Faith in Christ is a saving grace, whereby we receive and rest upon Christ alone for our salvation, as He is offered to us in the Gospel.

“This falling away of man called for a redeemer of man, to overcome the power of Satan. It was for this reason that Christ came into the world. He lived a sinless life, so that, under the law, he could not legally die. His death upon the cross restored man to fellowship with God.

“There is one way for us to get back to fellowship with our Maker, and that is through faith in Christ. Faith is necessary in everything that is to be accomplished. Faith in Christ is necessary to gain eternal life.”

Mr. Lockhart is a man who has a place in the heart of every student at Davidson. His work in behalf of our institution is among the greatest services rendered by any man to our college.

METHODIST PASTOR AWAY

Rev. R. L. Foster, of the Methodist Church, has been absent this week attending Conference. The members of his church hope he will be returned to this charge for another year.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE FOOTBALL SQUAD, 1922

First Row—Williams, Barron, Sappenfield, McDonald, Laird.
Second Row—Gentry, Sorrels, Fields, MacMaster, Shepherd, Captain Moore, Brice, Davis, Regan, Clarke, Long.
Third Row—Long, Vance, Mallory, Davis, Hendrix, Hunt, Crawford, Summers, Dick, Boggs, Coach Hugh Grey.
Fourth Row—Coach Murrill, Johnson, McCombs, Hastie, Rolson, White, Covington, Moore, Briggs, Cox, Alexander, Martin.
Fifth Row—Buck, Anderson, Morrow, Baker, Hunter, Patterson, Jones, Lamons, Long, Thompson, Crayton, Gracy.
Sixth Row—Ballard, McMillen, Houghton, Cook, Long, Greene, Black, Alford, Hodgin.
Seventh Row—McFall, Cox, Smith, Menzies, McLaurin, Shepherd, DeArmond, and Cox.

PLUCKY WILDCATS FIGHT VIRGINIA TECHMEN TO A 7-7 DRAW AND UPHOLD THE TIME-HONORED GLORY OF SPRUNT ATHLETIC FIELD

Coach Grey’s Fighting Felines Score Two Touchdowns on V. P. I. Gobblers, but One Is Declared Illegal by Referee Goss—Flake Laird Runs Seventy Yards for Sensational Tally—Hendricks Runs Back Yards From Kick-Off Through Engineer’s Line—Biggest Throng Ever Witnessed on Sprunt Field Sees Brilliant Wildcat Defense.

Before a madly cheering crowd of 3,000 people, those scrapping Wildcats came from behind against overwhelming odds and held the powerful Virginia Tech eleven to a 7-7 tie on Sprunt Field last Saturday afternoon. The spirit which prompted one of the players when asked, “Can the Wildcats do the impossible?” to reply, “The word impossible is not in the Wildcat vocabulary,” was the spirit which turned eleven men into eleven snarling Wildcats who stood between the Virginians and victory. To mention the stars of the game would be to mention all of the 15 Wildcats who got in the game. It was a battle of sheer grit and the Wildcats more than held their own against the heavy Virginians. Never have harder tackling, surer cutting, more dogged determination, or a gamer defense been seen on any football field.

Outweighed 14 pounds to the man, the Wildcats entered the game with that never-say-die spirit which characterizes all Davidson teams. Presenting one of the strongest line-smashing attacks of any Southern team, time after time the V. P. I. forwards would smother the light Wildcat line and their heavy backs would charge through. Slowly but surely they would march down within the shadow of the goal posts and there the thin Red line would brace and the ball would change hands. Four times the Wildcats, fighting with their backs to the wall, held the Gobblers for downs. In the first quarter, the Wildcats fought a losing battle. They held Tech for downs on the one-yard line and punted out of danger, but early in the second quarter Wallace hit the line for a one-foot gain and theGobblers’ only touchdown, Rutherford drop-kicked goal. Jim Hendrix returned the kick-off 43 yards but V. P. I. intercepted a pass and started down the field. Then on the 25-yard line, Red Laird intercepted a pass and, aided by perfect interference, raced 75 yards to a touchdown. On the try for point, Laird’s kick was low but the ball hit Baker’s hand and went over for the tying point. The stands went wild and in the latter part of the quarter, Davidson played V. P. I. off its feet. A 25-yard pass to Davis put the ball on the 10-yard line and on the fourth down, Laird went over on a pass but the referee ruled that he had stepped out of bounds on the two-foot line and it was V. P. I.’s ball. Tech punted and again the Wildcats marched down to the 20-yard line, but a pass was intercepted on the 11-yard line and after three plays the half was up.

In the third quarter, the ball was kept in midfield and Tech made one first down. Then in the final period, Tech’s weight told on the men who had given all they had for Davidson and they marched down the field. Inside the 20-yard line, the Wildcats held and Martin punted 50 yards out of danger. Again the Gobblers marched down the field and again the thin Red line threw them back and Martin punted once more. Then for the third time, the Techmen drove down the field but a place kick failed and it was Davidson’s ball. Hunt gained three yards and the game ended. The 3,000 who had come to see the team perform, which held Centre so well, had seen a physically inferior team by pluck and gameness turn back their opponents with a 7-7 deadlock. It was a great exhibition and the alumni who saw the game will all say proudly that the famous Davidson spirit is still alive and that the Wildcats are and always will be fighters.

Faison and Davis on ends both played wonderful games, while Clark and McMasters at tackles, and Sorrels and Davis at guards, bore the brunt of the Virginian’s line smashing attack and held in the pinches. DeArmon and Brice played great defensive games, backing up the line. Shepherd was forced out of the game in the first period because of a game leg. The punting of Martin and Laird pulled the Wildcats out of several bad holes. Hendrix at quarter ran the team well and made a spectacular 43-yard dash through a broken field with practically no interference. Laird’s great run with the team’s interference gave the (Continued on Page Five)

DAVIDSON STUDENTS EXCEED QUOTA IN CAMPUS CAMPAIGN

$27,500 Is Subscribed by the Faculty and Students for the Replacement of Chambers Building

With the usual Davidson spirit, that admits of no defeat, the campus campaign “went over.” Those of us who had known Old Chambers as it stood a year ago had, since the day of the fire, been determined to put a new Chambers, more magnificent and stately than even the old, in its place. Last Thursday saw the fulfillment of that determination, when the student body went over its $25,000 quota in a whirlwind campaign. The holiday was not an inducement—it was merely the faculty’s means of expressing their hearty support of the student body’s efforts.

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, director of the campaign, believed in the old adage that “a proposition that can be sold at home can be sold anywhere,” so he came to Davidson to give the Davidson men a chance to show the country how the thing ought to be done. The spirit with which it was done will be one of the greatest helps in persuading others to give aid to Davidson.

On October 4th, a letter from the campaign headquarters in Charlotte was sent to every Davidson man, announcing the campaign, and simply calling on the Davidson spirit. There was no need for more. On October 15th, the student body met immediately after chapel services, and the plan of the campaign and committees were announced. There were expressions from representatives of the entire student body, from Seniors to Freshmen, who voiced the spirit—“We’re going to do it.” After the student body meeting, the classes met in different rooms in Shearer Hall and the campaign was, for the most part, put over right there. Of the three upper classes, not a man failed to do his part. Practically every bit of the money pledged will be the result of good hard work next summer, on the part of every man in college. The Seniors went over the top in 20 minutes; the Juniors followed in short order. That night, at 9 o’clock, the steering committee, appointed by the committees from each class, took hold and every class except the Freshmen went far over its quota. The quota for the whole student body was $50 per man. The Seniors, with 83 men, averaged $57.83, a total of $4,800; the Juniors, with 80 men, averaged about $51.40; the Sophs, with 144 men, averaged $50.40. The Freshmen did not reach their quota, but made a good showing. All of the faculty have not yet been seen, but their subscriptions will total approximately $5,000.

On Wednesday night when the campaign had gone over, the committee was unable to secure the key to the big bell to announce the victory, so the old bell at the commissary was used to spread the glad news. Before chapel Thursday morning, everyone knew that Davidson had again lived up to her reputation. Chapel on the morning of the 19th was a very different affair from that which we usually see. Nearly every member of the faculty was present, and none of the student body seemed to have any desire to be absent. The (Continued on Page Eight)

WELL DONE WILDCATS—$27,000 FOR CHAMBERS.