THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 17, 1922.

CHRISTIAN ACTIVITIES

DR. WHALING HAS MANY INTERVIEWS WITH STUDENTS

Dr. Thornton Whaling, now Professor of Theology in Louisville Theological Seminary, spent Saturday afternoon on the hill holding interviews with students who wished to talk about their seminary courses. The doctor held his interviews in the parlor of the library and was kept busy all afternoon without a let-up. He described many interesting features of the work at Louisville.

D. PATTERSON MAKES BRIEF TALK TO VOLUNTEERS

Henry Patterson outlined the work of our mission in Africa to the Volunteers Sunday morning in a concise and appealing way. Begun in 1890 by two missionaries, Lapsley and Sheppard (the latter colored), there are now sixty-four missionaries on the field assisted by nearly two thousand native workers. They are eager to serve, these natives, and care has to be taken in accepting them for those of the so common ultra-emotional type must be carefully guarded against. Each candidate for church membership is examined from three to six times before he is received and afterwards his life must be true to his vows. Patterson, in closing, spoke of the danger of our mission field from the heathen creeds coming down from the north and also of the lack of education and progress incident to the Roman Catholic work nearby. Bachelor, from Columbia Theological Seminary, added points of interest on the heroic lives of the early men and women who opened up this field. Hay, also from Columbia, urged upon all the motto, “Always steadfast to heed God's call.” He pointed out that men have been selected by God himself to do His work in this world. Pleasant plans were discussed for a feed in the near future when the Volunteer Convention at Greensboro next month will be under consideration.

PAT CRAWFORD SPEAKS TO HI-Y CLUB OF CHARLOTTE

The Hi-Y Club of the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. enjoyed a treat last Sunday afternoon at 3:30 when Pat Crawford made an excellent talk on the manhood of the Master. Pat prefaced his talk by several remarks commending the Hi-Y Club, telling what he himself had seen it accomplish. He then drew a striking contrast between the paintings of Jesus and the real Jesus. The Christs of the artists were weak, emaciated, and effeminate with the one redeeming feature that they did portray gentleness. But the real Christ as we see him was a tall, broad-shouldered, handsome son of a worker in the hardest trade at that time. For the carpenter of Christ’s time must be a real man physically, and Jesus was trained in this trade. Besides this, Christ was a friendly, cheerful, forceful man whose personality attracted men with a tremendous force. In closing, Crawford called on the members of the club to emulate Christ and study to be more like Him. They must fight to win in everything now and thus be better equipped for the life of constructive citizens later. A large, attentive audience and good music further added to the success of the meeting.

BEATTY AND YANDELL SPEAK TO THE MINISTERIAL BAND

The meeting of the Ministerial Band on last Sunday was conducted by the visiting students from Columbia Theological Seminary. The quartet rendered a selection, “Upon the Rock of Christ’s Salvation,” in a very pleasing and impressive manner. Two members of the group, Messrs. Beatty and Yandell, both alumni of Davidson, made very helpful talks to the band. Beatty spoke of life in college. He dealt with the three phases of college activities: social, intellectual, and spiritual. He spoke of the need and the importance of Christian influence in the social life of a college, and also of Christian principles in the intellectual activities. The spiritual life, he claimed, to be of prime importance, as the character of the other activities depended largely on the quality of the spiritual life on the campus. He appealed for more complete surrender to Jesus Christ to the end that the spiritual life of the campus might be strengthened. Mr. Yandell spoke on “Consecration,” stressing the power and reliance on God. No one can rely on the grace of God too much, he declared, as the grace of God exceeded all that man could expect. He spoke of the importance of self-consecration and its unlimited possibilities for good. In a sense, the meeting was a preparatory service for the “Y” meeting. An unusually large number was present. Announcement was made of the plans of the consecration committee for the increase of the morning watch on the campus. The meeting was unusually impressive.

DR. HENRY SWEETS IS TO SPEAK AT “Y” ON SUNDAY

Dr. Henry H. Sweets, who is Secretary of the Christian Education and Ministerial Relief Committee of the Southern Presbyterian Church, will be the speaker at the “Y” service next Sunday. Dr. Sweets is one of the most widely known men in the Southern Church and he is particularly noted for his gift of speaking. It is certain that all who attend the meeting at which he is to speak will hear a stirring and beneficial talk.

DAVIDSON MEN GIVE TO HANGCHOW COLLEGE

It has been the custom for a number of years at Davidson for each man of the student body to subscribe annually to a fund known as the “Parker Memorial Fund,” the money raised being used to support a missionary in China. This year the plan was changed somewhat. Instead of using the money as it has been heretofore, it will be used to send a Davidson man to Hangchow College, China, as an instructor. All who heard Dr. Blain’s lecture on “Hangchow” last Friday are familiar with the good work being done there. It may also be well to say that it is the only college in China supported entirely by the Southern Presbyterian Church. In the drive put on by the “Y” immediately after Dr. Blain’s lecture, $735 was raised by subscription. W. I. Knox stated that of 300 fellows seen, 206 signed pledge cards. The average subscription per man was $2.65. Although it is considered that the amount was very good, considering the number of fellows seen, it is still short of the $1,000 goal placed by the “Y.” In order to give those who have not as yet given, an opportunity to do so, a clean-up drive will be held some time this week. The purpose of the fund, as has already been stated, is to send a Davidson man to Hangchow College as an instructor. But in the event that no man can be found for the place, the fund will be used for the general support of the college.

THE MICROBE OF LOVE TO BE STAGED AT DAVIDSON

Those who enjoy a good, snappy, musical comedy will have an opportunity of seeing one in “The Microbe of Love” to be given at Davidson on Friday evening, February 24th, in Shearer Hall. “The Microbe of Love” will be presented under the auspices of the local post of the American Legion. Local talent will take part in the play assisted by a few of the members of the Davidson Glee Club. Miss Margaret Davison, of Atlanta, who has had a great deal of experience in getting up similar performances, is coming soon to help with the play. “The Microbe of Love” has made a big hit wherever it has been given, most places wantinga return engagement. It goes to Wake Forest from here. When Harry Caldwell, the promoter of the play, was interviewed, he said that a number of young ladies from Charlotte were anxious to take part in the play, but it was thought best to have all local talent. The reserved seats for the performance will be seventy-five cents, general admission fifty cents, children will be admitted for thirty-five cents. The proceeds from the play will go to the local post of the American Legion. Come out and enjoy the fun.

SEMINARY MEN MAKE STRONG TALKS
(Continued from page 1)

This address was followed by one equally as impressive by Mr. Batchelor. He spoke briefly on four plain Bible facts. The first was, “The wages of sin is death.” Sin breaks lives and destroys manhood and character. The speaker pointed out the fact that a person’s future success depends on his attitude toward sin. 

Second was, “God is love.” He is patient enough to not forsake us in our sins. The third was 2 Cor. 12:9, “Thy grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness.” He is able to keep us from falling. 

Fourth was the 23rd Psalm. We should be men enough to follow where He leadeth, and to endure hardness as good soldiers of Jesus Christ. 

Following this, the Columbia quartette sung “My son, give me thy heart,” after which an earnest appeal for full surrender to Christ was made. Almost every man stood up, signifying that he was willing to be fully used for Christ in whatever form of service He wishes. 

Last month these men held a service similar to the above one at the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. The results of it were equally as encouraging. The quartette is composed of G. W. Belk, first tenor; A. R. Batchelor, second tenor; E. L. Barber, first bass; and B. F. Yandell, second bass. S. B. Hay and E. A. Beatty assisted them in several services Sunday. Messrs. Yandell, Hay, and Beatty are Davidson graduates. Mr. Belk and Mr. Barber are P. C. men, while Mr. Batchelor went to the Pittsburgh Bible School.

PLANS MADE TO EXTEND OUR ATHLETIC POLICY FOR ATHLETICS

Dr. J. M. Douglas has issued a statement that forecasts a radical change in the athletic policy of the college. It is planned to greatly increase the scope of our athletic activities. The statement was as follows: “At a meeting of the faculty of Davidson College held in January, it was decided that the college was in need of a new athletic policy. Particularly was it desired that the alumni should have a voice in the control of athletics. After consulting several alumni, it was decided to place the control of all athletics in the hands of an Athletic Council. This council will be composed of seven men, four representing the faculty and three the alumni.

“The faculty has appointed as its representatives, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. H. S. Arbuckle, Prof. W. W. Wood, and Mr. F. L. Jackson. In view of the fact that there will be no regular meeting of the Alumni Association until June, the faculty appointed Mr. L. Richardson, of Greensboro, N. C.; Mr. J. M. Black, of Greenville, S. C.; and Mr. L. H. Wilkinson, of Charlotte, N. C., to serve until then as the alumni members of the council. Henceforth, the alumni representatives will be elected by the Alumni Association.

“The Athletic Council will have control of the selection of coaches, the disbursing of funds, and the making of schedules. In fact, it will assume general supervision over all athletic activities.”

First Meeting of the Council

It was learned from Dr. Douglas that at the first meeting of the council, held at Davidson, February 4th, he was elected chairman, and Mr. Jackson, secretary and treasurer, and that Coach Grey was chosen to head the field work of the council. The first business taken up was the election of an assistant football coach. Several names were proposed, but as yet no definite choice has been made. The alumni members asked that immediate steps be taken to assure closer co-operation with the alumni.

Plans for Co-operation

When questioned as to what form the co-operation of the council with the alumni would take, Dr. Douglas said that plans have already been made for the formation of an Alumni Athletic Association and of an advisory coaching staff. It was intimated that other plans were being considered and that they would be made public in due time. He was particularly emphatic in the declaration that no attempt would be made to raise funds for the subsidizing or hiring of players, stating that that was against the best interests of college athletics and contrary to the historic policy of Davidson.

For the year 1922, the advisory coaching staff will be composed of Mr. I. P. Graham, of Cooleemee, N. C.; Dr. J. P. Munroe, of Charlotte, N. C.; Mr. N. Bruce Edgerton, of Columbia, S. C.; and Dr. H. W. McCoy, of Charlotte, N. C. These men will actually help the regular coaches on the field, especially at the beginning of the season. In addition, it is planned to have them follow the progress of the teams closely at all times and to submit to the Athletic Council suggestions for desirable changes. In fact, they will constitute a board of experts ready at all times to offer advice to the regular coaches.

EAGLE “MIKADO” 174
For Sale at your Dealer
ASK FOR THE YELLOW PENCIL WITH THE RED BAND
EAGLE MIKADO
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY, NEW YORK
Made in five grades

LOUISVILLE THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
Practical
Scholarly
Progressive
Spiritual

Located in the heart of the chief city of the South. Unequalled plant, unexcelled curriculum, with a faculty of specialists of highest distinction and skill. Scholarship for prepared students. Prepares for the ministry in the Twentieth Century. Write to JOHN M. VANDER MEULEN, D. D., LL. D., President.

We Cater to the College Men
When in Charlotte
Visit the Devereaux Cafe
Polite Ladies to Serve You
Mrs. Mable B. Devereaux, Mgr.
East Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Fountain
All the latest drinks served by expert fountain men
Agents Nunnally, Hollingsworth and Mary Garden Candies
Tryon Drug Co.
200 N. Tryon, Charlotte, N. C.

THE RALEIGH
Charlotte’s Best Cafe
J. T. Matthews, Prop.
Phone 3486
221 W. Trade St.

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE DEPOT
O. C. ANDREW, Mgr.
The Hotel of Comfort
200 Rooms
150 With Private Bath
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It Wakes You Up
In Bottles
Delicious and Refreshing
Charlotte Coca-Cola Bottling Works