. Goodbye Football! THE DAVIDSONIAN Now For Basketball FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 7, 1922 No. 11

MANY ENJOYABLE FEATURES PRESENTED BY THE CLASS OF 1923 IN ANNUAL EXERCISES

Many Guests Attend Senior Speaking Despite Inclement Weather

Derbies Donned by Seniors as Class Distinction

Last Friday Old Sol gave promise of exceedingly good weather, and with everything indicating one of the best Senior speakings for many years, the class of ’23 began their program and carried it to a successful conclusion in spite of the sudden change in the elements when Jupiter Pluvius came into his own. With the Thanksgiving holidays combined with the usual week-end for speaking, there was plenty of time for those who were suffering from any degree of exhaustion due to their scholastic efforts to be in the pink of condition for a good rest and a good time. Very few of the visitors came up before Friday evening, and Thanksgiving day was devoid of almost all excitement, for most of the student body was off the hill.

Senior speaking this year saw an even greater Davidson than last year. Of course, the majority of old Chambers building was gone, and the attractive view from the cupola was denied to the visitors. From the ruins of Davidson’s “broken heart,” two new dormitories have arisen, and Davidson is greater than ever before.

Friday evening, at 7:30, the exercises began with the motion picture, “The Young Rajah,” at the gym. The audience was entirely too large for the space and the vestibule was filled with those standing. The picture was up to the usual standard of those shown here and through the arrangements of the Seniors, was entirely free. Following the movie the fraternity halls were thrown open, and the inter-fraternity reception was held. None of the groups, it seemed, had as many guests as had been expected, but true Davidson hospitality was prevalent and joy was plentiful. The reception, lasting until 11:30, made a fit opening for the good times that followed.

Saturday was the day of the main exercises, and the orations were delivered at about 10:30. The preliminaries had been held during the preceding two weeks, and those speaking Saturday morning were the ones selected from a large group of contestants. At 3:30 Saturday evening the hosts of the occasion assembled in Shearer Hall and a novel exercise was held. As years go by, something is added at each occasion, and the derby exercise was the feature brought forth by the class of ’23. It is entirely in keeping with the dignified bearings of those about to face the world that such an exercise should be held. From their close associations with the faculty of Davidson, many of them had gathered the traits and distinguishing habits of members of that body, and these habits were presented in ludicrous style. Immediately following the exercise an informal reception was held in the library, since the weather prevented its being held on the front campus.

From 4:30 until 8:15 the chapel in Shearer was the scene of intensified activity and at 8:15 the results of many an hour’s hard work were presented to a packed house. The Dramatic Club presented the best Wildcat minstrel that has ever been seen here, and the entire personnel of the show was given applause in everything it put across.

Sunday morning, because of the work being done on the church, services were held in Shearer Hall, and Sunday night the townspeople combined their night services with the “Y” services, when Doctor McKinley, known to many Davidson men as (Continued on Page 5)

SENIORS DELIVER ORATIONS BEFORE A SMALL AUDIENCE

Men From Societies Compete for Senior Orator’s Medal

Speaking in Shearer Hall on the morning of December 2nd, before an audience whose numbers were greatly diminished by the pouring rain, six Seniors, chosen from the four literary societies, delivered speeches in competition for the Senior Oration Medal. Of the competing six, composed of F. S. Johnston, D. H. Ogden, J. W. Baldwin, W. A. Gamble, W. H. Moore and T. L. Fraser, the four chosen by judges from the faculty to speak again for the medal at commencement were J. W. Baldwin, W. A. Gamble, F. S. Johnston and D. H. Ogburn.

After a short introductory speech by Professor Erwin, who presided at the occasion, Wallace Moore spoke on “The Trojan Horse.” Drawing a parallelism between the immigrants coming into this country and the horse that the Trojans dragged within their walls, Moore showed the menace that threatens America in the immigrant population which yearly comes to our shores and is not cared for. In a very interesting way he explained the necessity of controlling our immigration and the need of teaching the immigrants who do settle here, American ideals.

“Unity” was the subject of T. L. Fraser, the next speaker. Fraser spoke on the need of unity of character and ideals. He emphasized especially the need of unity in the character of two persons who love each other.

Dunbar Ogden spoke next on “What's Wrong With America?” Questioning the stability of our modern civilization with the home gradually losing its importance in the lives of individuals, he emphasized the necessity of the home. Without its healthy influence on the characters of American youth, he pointed out that the national life (Continued on Page 5)

MINSTRELS DECLARED BEST IN HISTORY OF DAVIDSON

Four Laughterous Acts Keep Audience in Throes of Laughter

On last Saturday night there was presented in Shearer Hall to an unusual and expectant crowd the greatest, largest, and best minstrel of the Wildcat variety held in Davidson, in the opinion of all present. It was a big success from the appearance of the Pullman porter to the last strains of “O Davidson,” and everyone went away from Shearer thinking and saying that at last the best Wildcat Minstrel had appeared in truth.

The first scene was that of the interior of a Pullman car inhabited by the Pullman porter, ably portrayed by Bob McLeod, and the Wildcat Minstrels minus their manager and on their way to New York via Statesville. They are set right by the Pullman porter who is allowed to join them in their travels which were to include performances before the crowned heads of Europe. They start for New York, guided by the porter, to embark on the Saxophonia.

The second act shows the Minstrels, still minus their manager, afloat in the middle of the ocean in a small lifeboat from the Saxophonia, which had sunk on its first trip on a new route. The scene was opened by a song, “One Hundred Fathoms Deep,” sung by D. G. Wilson. The boat is rocking to and fro with the motion of the waves and the remarks of the shipwrecked minstrels caused many a laugh in the audience. A storm arises and descends with great fury upon the little boat causing it to rock even more and also causing great consternation among the blackfaces. The act closes with the singing of “Good Night Ladies” by all, amid a great disturbance among the elements.

The third act presents a wild and desolate cannibal isle soon augmented by the presence of Lord Algernon, ambassador from the court of St. James to the Sultan of Sarawak, and immediately after by that of four ferocious and man-eating cannibals who execute a fantastic war dance prior to the partaking of a feast. Their dialect was particularly amusing to the audience, even that of Mont- (Continued on page 4)

REVEREND McKINLEY MAKES INSPIRING ADDRESS AT “Y”

Octet From Queens College Renders Special Music at Service

Rev. Edward McKinley, of Washington, Georgia, known to the students of Davidson College as Brother Mark, was the inspiring speaker at the Y. M. C. A. meeting Sunday evening. The meeting was a joint meeting of the “Y” and the local Presbyterian Church, and a large crowd was present despite the fact that many of the students were at home for the week-end. Fraser, of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, presided over the meeting, while Bob McLeod and Buck Currie led the singing of the evening. Following the opening songs, Bob Gordon and Frank Johnston led in prayer. Dunbar Ogden then read the scripture lesson, which was taken from Matt. 10:32-42.The Queens College Octet rendered a selection which was thoroughly enjoyed by the entire audience. Following the selection, Fraser introduced the speaker of the evening. Brother Mark took two texts for consideration. The first was Matt. 10:40, “He that receiveth you, receiveth Me;” and the other text from Acts 4:13, “And they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.”

(Continued on Page 5)

OGDEN AND GAMBLE CHOSEN TO DEBATE WITH W. & L.
Debate to Be Held in Lexington on December 15th

After a hard-fought contest in the preliminary to choose two men who will represent Davidson in the debate with Washington and Lee, the judges selected Arnett Gamble and Dunbar Ogden, with Benton Wharton as alternate. The men who debated in the Eu hall on Monday night were W. A. Gamble, A. P. Hudgins, Wallace Moore, and Harry Price, from the Pandemic Society; L. P. Burney and D. B. Wharton, of the Metrophilians; D. H. Ogden and L. D. Elkins from the Eumenean Society, and W. W. White from the Philanthropic Society. The judges were Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. J. M. MacConnell, Professor A. Currie, and Professor Wagner.

In the final contest, Davidson will have the affirmative of the question, Resolved, That the United States government should cancel the loans made to her allies after April 6, 1917. The debate will be held in Lexington, Va., on December 15.

Gamble has had his experience for two years in inter-collegiate debating. His sincere expression, his convincing manner, and his soundness of reasoning are his chief characteristics as a debater. He was one of the best debaters in the preliminary contest.

PURPLE HURRICANE SUCCEEDS IN WRESTING APPARENT VICTORY FROM WILDCAT WARRIORS

Playing before a small holiday crowd, which expected an easy Furman victory, the Wildcats were nosed out by the Purple Hurricane in their annual Turkey Day contest at Greenville, 13-10, in a colorful game replete with thrills and scintillating with individual brilliance. Displaying a powerful running attack, the Davidson backs swept around the Purple flanks for long gains and the wingmen raced down the field time after time, for a touchdown, after pulling down Hendrix’s accurate passes, but the charging backs of the Hurricane marched down the field twice and snatched victory from the grasp of the fighting Presbyterians.

It was a wonderful battle. Playing in Furman’s backyard, the Red and Black warriors were not outclassed. Doped to lose by a safe margin, the Wildcats matched the Furman gains yard for yard and excelled in all departments of the game except line plunging and the runback of kicks. Poteat and Dempsey plunged through the line for consistent gains and pushed over two touchdowns, but to Gig Shepherd, playing the final game of his grid career, belong the honors of the day; for by his long end runs, his forward passing, his dependable punting, and his beautiful goal from placement from the 30-yard line, he lifted the Wildcats to heights which they had reached only once or twice during the present season and wound up his three years as an important cog in the Wildcat machine by playing the greatest game of his career.

Six Red-Jerseyed athletes, Big McMasters, Sam Davis, Marion Brice, Bascom Sorrells, Gig Shepherd, and Captain Spratt Moore donned their moleskins for the last time and although denied the right of placing the Red and Black above the Purple, they played a wonderful game and gave the Hurricane the hardest battle of the year. When Gig made his field goal that veteran line for the last time held like a stone wall and not a Furman man broke through that thin Red line until the ball had sailed, straight and true, between the uprights. Four times during the contest that same line met the attacks of the Furman battering ram and the ball went over on downs. Sam Davis and Brice played great games, while Bascom Sorrells, although sick, showed his usual fighting spirit as long as he was in the game. McMasters also played a good game at tackle in closing his football career. Spratt Moore played a great game and pulled down several forward passes for long gains. On one occasion he pulled down a pass which Gig hurled within his reach and snaked his way down the sidelines 40 yards for one of the longest gains of the game.

To Gig Shepherd, however, belongs the lion’s share of the honors for he put the Wildcats in the lead with his field goal and after the Hurricane had pushed their way to the front, 6-3, it was his long 45-yard dash around the left flank of the Hurricane which placed the Wildcats in a position to score. The Wildcats’ lone touchdown came shortly after the opening of the second half when Hendrix received a punt on his own 30-yard line. In three plays the Wildcats carried the ball down the field 70 yards to a touchdown. Gig’s great 45-yard sprint around the end placed the ball on Furman’s 25-yard line. Spratt Moore hit tackle for two yards and then Jim Hendrix shot a perfect pass to Sam Davis who grabbed it and ran for the touchdown.

(Continued on Page 5)

HARD SCHEDULE PRESENTED FOR 1923 WRESTLING TEAM
Majority of Last Year’s Team Will Again Perform

The Wildcat wrestling team will face a stiff schedule this year. Practice is to begin in earnest immediately after the Christmas holidays. Practically all of the old men have returned and it is expected that much new material will be available. The first meet of the year will take place with Trinity at Durham on February 23rd. The Wildcats are out to avenge the defeat they suffered at the hands of this mat aggregation last year, when the Durham team secured the verdict by a margin of two points. The second match will be with South Carolina at Davidson on March 2nd and the Wildcat student body will have the privilege of seeing their champions of the mat in action. The third meet for the Wildcats will be with V. M. I. at Lexington, Va., on March 10th. The Cadets always turn out a scrappy mat team and the Wildcats will have to sharpen their claws to make the fur fly. Captain Cromartie is in the midst of negotiations with V. P. I. for a meet at Blacksburg, but cannot promise success as yet.

The old men returning to the hill this year are Captain Cromartie of the 129-pound class, Kimsey, 140; Patterson, 150; Cochran, 130, and White, 175. Together with the old men and with some new material, Davidson should put out a mat team that will more than hold its own with all comers whoever they may be.

Wrestling is a comparatively new form of athletic endeavor at Davidson. Last year Davidson first held matches with other institutions and the creditable showing made during the initial year of the sport here causes the Wildcat mat men and student body to look forward to great things in this sport for the coming season.

FORMER DAVIDSON MAN GETS N.C. RHODES SCHOLARSHIP
J. M. Richards, ’22, Wins Highest Honor Possible for Any Student

The college and town of Davidson were both delighted this week to hear that J. M. Richards, honor graduate of last year’s class and son of Dr. C. M. Richards, of the Presbyterian Church, has been awarded the Rhodes Scholarship from North Carolina this year. The Rhodes Scholarship is held for three years at Oxford on a stipend of 350 pounds a year. To be a Rhodes scholar not only means that one has the opportunity to study three years at the great English University but it brings with it an opportunity to broaden one’s outlook on life, to meet new men, and to travel in Europe. The entire college wishes to extend its congratulations to “Mac” and his family at the appointment that everybody knows he deserves.

The award of a Rhodes Scholarship is one of the highest honors a student may obtain for it is based on character and personality, scholastic ability, and physical vigor so evidenced in his college course. Everyone who was at college with “Mac” knows that he possesses these qualities to a marked degree. Manly and straightforward at all times, he has won the respect and admiration of all who know him.

(Continued on Page 5)

TWO MORE WEEKS THEN HOME!