THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Figuratively Speaking
That man in Statesville is good on figures. He missed his approximation of the Armistice Day crowd in the neighborhood of nineteen thousand, four hundred and eighty-seven. He ought to have used a transportation table; not a multiplication table.

Alabama Shines
Ben Ratchford was serving the Governor down at the “Trough” Monday, and had just brought in the first course, which was soup. When His Excellency looked down at the bowl he noticed soup all over one side.
“Is that soup all right,” he asked.
“Sure,” hastened Ben to remark, “a fly fell in it as I was bringing it in—but it’s all right now. I got him out with my thumb.”

THIS WEEK
Bowie: Where is he going to speak?
Fresh McCutcheon: How many of you are going to hear Paderewski, when he comes to Charlotte?

Ikey—Gosh, I'm hungry. Lived on water for a solid week.
Izzie: Golly, where wuz you?

BOOT WALTON’S MUSICAL COMEDY
Davidson Bell Ringers Quartet
16 - PEOPLE - 16

The Training Table
Flake: There's a fly in my coffee.
Coach: Never mind. It can’t hurt him. The coffee’s cold.

Twinkle! Twinkle!
A wise Sophomore in a Sophomore’s way
Lit a stick of powder one cold hot day.
Meat and powder they say won't mix,
But, nevertheless, he's in a devil of a fix.

Charlotte Transfer Company
MATINEE DAILY 3:30
PHONE 298
NIGHT 7:30--9

‘Lias: Makin’ both ends meet these days?
Tom: No, I'm practicing along other lines. I can put my socks on from either end after two days of wear.

Montgomery (on Fifth Avenue): I say, officer, can you see me across the street?
Officer: Faith, I could see your two hundred pounds across the city.

Regen: Where's the Sunday School quarter?
Hillhouse: Thunder, this ain't Sunday. I told you not to take that bath last night.

Take it home to the kids.

Accommodating suitor at masked ball: My, but you are beautiful tonight. Your eyes are like jewels.
Sweetheart (removing mask): O, Bar!

Have a packet in your pocket for an ever-ready treat. A delicious confection and an aid to teeth, appetite, and digestion.

Famous Wrigley Building in Chicago Being Doubled in Size
The part of the Wrigley Building erected two years ago has filled such a want that the north section, nearly double the floor area of the south section, is being added. Here is a concrete (as well as a steel and glass) proof of the saying that “advertising pays.” In these magnificent buildings Mr. Wrigley has erected an impressive monument to the power of advertising.

Which reminds us—"O'er the Billowy Ocean"be a tenor solo instead of a bass solo. This north section, nearly completed, occupies the entire block, immediately across North Water Street, fronting on Michigan Avenue and reaching to the height of the main part of the first structure, with a connecting bridge. The space in the new section is already nearly all taken by high-class firms in advance of the completion of the building.

Dave Pleagar says anyone would know he loved coffee because he drank three cups at the celebration last Monday trying to get warm. They loom large and beautiful. They typify the achievements of the man who built them. They stand as a monitor over the activity, bearing unanswerable testimony to the POWER OF ADVERTISING.

COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It

Galloway (in a romantic mood): "Time flies!"
Runaway: "Well, I dunno. House flies."

Boot: "Have you heard the one about the cinnamon bear?"
Boot: "It's spicy."

College Jewelry
Eversharp Pencils
Parker Fountain Pens
Watches and Clocks
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
“We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.”

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Every few hours swallow slowly a quarter of a teaspoonful of Vicks. Also, melt a little in a spoon or a tin cup and inhale the vapors arising.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

In spite of wars and rumors of wars, in spite of law and regulations, and in spite of the serious banana shortage, those cunning additions to the Davidson landscape, called mustaches, still continue to thrive in these here parts. All of us are more or less foolish, only the Fresh seem to be more intent on proving it than any of the rest of us.

Our idea of a thrifty man is one who just when he is dying, drinks up all the bad-tasting medicines because they are expensive and ought not to be wasted.

The Raleigh Cafe always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high-tone fellows.

And along comes “Long Distance” Burke with the merry refrain: “A Miss on the front seat is worth two under the hood.”

Field: “And you don't know Theda Bara?”
Field: “Naw, but I know her two brothers—Wheel and Paul.”

Which reminds us of the Soph who remarked the other day that his Bible certainly was hard. He said, “I don’t know a thing about those Boam boys—Jerry and Reho.”

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations

We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.