4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

(Continued from page 1)

TIGERS TAKE ADVANTAGE

From Robinson to Finklea, Williams hit right tackle for the first touchdown. Robinson failed to kick goal. Robinson kicked off over the goal line and the quarter ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on their own 20-yard line.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Davidson ran three successful plays, but failed to annex the necessary yardage and was forced to punt. Clemson put the ball in play on their own 47-yard line and advanced to within striking distance on line plays by Williams and Walker. Robinson attempted a field goal from Davidson's 30-yard line, but Faison knocked the ball down and recovered it on Davidson’s 25-yard line. The Wildcats were unable to gain through the Tiger line and punted. Clemson was forced to punt and Hendrix fumbled a long one from Robinson's toe and Clemson recovered on Davidson's 25-yard line. A short pass and several line plays netted first down on Davidson's 12-yard line. Here the Davidson forwards tightened and held Clemson for downs on the 5-yard line. After an exchange of punts and several fumbles, the half ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on their own 20-yard line.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE, Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE, Managing Editor
A. LAKE, Assistant Managing Editor
H. B. PRICE, Associate Editor
J. R. BRIGGS, Advertising Manager
R. W. OEL, Advertising Manager
P. J. STORY, Subscription Manager
A. M. HURD, Service Department
J. M. GARRISON, Assistant

The third quarter found the teams playing even for first honors. Play was pretty much in mid-field until Hendrix fumbled a punt and Garrison recovered for Clemson on the Wildcats’ 9-yard line. Faison threw Harmon for a 10-yard loss on an attempted end run. Robinson's second attempt at drop-kicking fell short and Davidson took the ball on their 20-yard line. Davidson failed to gain and punted, Wells recovering Robinson's fumble on Davidson's 43-yard line.

Davidson's only threat came at the beginning of the fourth quarter. The recovery of a fumble gave Davidson the ball in mid-field. After a 10-yard loss on an attempted end run, Hendrix uncorked a pass to Shepherd for 15 yards. The Wildcats were forced to punt, but Harmon fumbled and Davis recovered for Davidson on Clemson's 30-yard line. On an end run and off-tackle play, Wells advanced the ball to Clemson's 19-yard line, but Clemson held here and the ball went over. It was the closest Davidson came to Clemson's goal line.

The Tigers, with Shepherd and Walker leading the line attack, advanced the ball to Davidson's 1-yard line, where they were held for downs. Vance’s exceptional work in the line accounted for the Clemson aggregation not going over for a touchdown at this point. Shepherd punted out to Harmon, who returned the ball to the 20-yard line. Successful line plays netted first down on Davidson's 10-yard line. After three downs, Walker carried over on the fourth. Robinson failed to kick goal. Clemson, 12; Davidson, 0. Robinson kicked over the goal line. Davidson failed to gain and punted. The game ended after Harmon recovered the fumbled punt and made first down in two plays on end runs.

Doing the commonplace thing well is an attribute of great men. Nothing is too small for the big man.

THE OLD FAITH

The November issue of The World’s Work, leading recorder of opinions on topics of world-wide interest, carries a letter in its editorial section from Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College, under the heading The Church and Our Colleges. The letter occupies the larger portion of a page of printed matter and deals in its entirety with the stand the Davidson College faculty and student body have taken in regard to matters of belief in the Divinity of Christ.

Dr. Martin points out in his letter that the entire faculty of the college, including twenty-seven instructors in sciences, languages, and other subjects, and the student body of 575 men is without an exception an orthodox body. He stresses the point that in view of recent attacks on the Divinity of Christ and other doctrines of the orthodox churches, Davidson College is proud of the stand its students and teachers have taken.

May Davidson stand fast in the old faith of the fathers!

Line-up and summary follow:

Clemson (12) Position Davidson (0)
Garrison Left End Faison
Harmon Right End Shepherd
Walker Right Tackle Vance
Williams Left Half Wells
Jackson Right Guard Black
Wentz Center Fields

Touchdowns: Williams 1, Walker 1

The sympathy of every Davidson man is extended to H. G. Goodykoontz, member of the Freshman class, in his sad bereavement. The following clipping from the Charleston (W. Va.) Gazette, of November 11th, tells of the sad death of Billie Goodykoontz, of Bluefield, W. Va., young brother of the Davidson student: “Billy Goodykoontz, aged four-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Substitutions: | Clemson — Harmon for | een years, died early tonight at a local hospital from injuries sustained || Wilson _. __ _- 22 -- -- _- __ _- __ Lone] Warker; Walker for Harmon; Harmon for this afternoon in a football game between the Presbyterian and Baptist Left Guard eee Williams: Tee for Roy,” Davidson— Church boys. Young Goodykoontz was a member of the former organization | Strother Laird |4 f Cc tj Anderson for Laird; Baker is death Tua FeO R f i; f : S -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Laird |-Long for Cox; Anderson for Laird; Baker is the first fatality from football in Bluefield. He Packle is; Covi f ells waeth sf the 1 ig Left Tackle for Davis; Covington for Wells; Hunt for the son of the late John Goodykoontz, a former official of the Norfolk Finklea Davis | Covington; Lewis for L and Western Railroad.” ee ira: ee mctiiee area CMahate Peo ar weet i j Left End Referee. Street (Auburn). Billy visited Davidson but two weeks ago, and had already formed a | Robinson -- -- -- -- -- -- -- Hendrix | Umpire: Parish (Erskine). love for his big brother’s school. ” L Quarter | Headlinesman: Major (Clemson). 1 long trips. | they did not arrive in time. {through the college publications, Exchanges | | | P 4 C 4 — EXCHANGES — Box Hd | (It is our purpose to put into this column | items of interest selected from the various college publications. There is much that we | could include here, but our space is limited. | If you wish to know more about other institutions, read the exchanges in the parlor of West Dormitory.) The management of the intercollegiate debating at Wofford this year has been taken from the debating council and turned over to the Pi Kappa Delta honorary forensic fraternity. This fraternity is composed of men who have represented Wofford on debating teams. Their schedule promises to be a good one, although it has not been definitely arranged as yet—Old Gold and Black The attention of all upperclassmen is called to the rule in effect at William and Mary that there shall be no hazing. This rule will be strictly enforced. To avoid any trouble that may arise, the Discipline Council asks the co-operation of the entire student body in the enforcement of this rule—Flat Hat. Many of the University of Florida students hoboed to Atlanta to see the Ga. Tech-Florida game. The majority of them that took their chance on the highway. Their success in this latter depended largely upon their ability to patch tires, procure gas, and clean spark plugs.—The Technique. Notre Dame's football team does not suffer in its classroom work because of its long trips. The squad includes a corps of professors and regular recitations are held on all their trips—The Emory Wheel. Pep was revived at the University of Texas last week in a rather interesting manner. At a pep meeting, a famous contortionist stated that he would free himself from any six men who would volunteer to hold him. He also said that six students from Texas A and M had held him twenty-one minutes. A and M is the deadly enemy of the University and six men immediately took hold of the contortionist and with the determination to hold him twenty-two minutes. Although they only held him nineteen minutes, the college spirit, which had been declining, was very much revived by the contest—The Daily Texan. An average of seventy-five is required of all students at West Virginia University for graduation, according to a new faculty ruling. Seventy is the passing mark but the average must be seventy-five for the four years course.—The Flat Hat. Wake Forest is planning to make its athletic field the most beautiful part of its campus. With this idea in view, they intend to surround the field with maple trees. The trees were to be set out on Labor Day but they did not arrive in time. However, when the trees are secured, a half holiday will be granted for the purpose of planting them.—Old Gold and Black. The Emory man respects customs and not the cold dead rut of the past, but profits by the experience of his fathers.—The Emory Wheel. The recent death in our student body has been a means of showing us just how many friends we did have. The Blue Stocking wishes to thank all the other publications for the kind remarks that they have made through their columns regarding the death of our fellow member, Carey Brown. The Gamecock showed a very beautiful spirit in publishing a black-bordered column in memory of Brown, also did the Old Gold and Black in their sympathetic editorial. These remarks together with the many telegrams and letters of sympathy sent to the student body, go to show that there certainly does exist an amiable spirit of fraternity among the educational institutions of South Carolina—The Blue Stocking. G. S. E. HOLDS NATIONAL CONVENTION (Continued from page 1) fraternity, both in matters of intention and extension. Although the names have not yet been announced, it is understood that the convention has petitions for chapters from five prominent institutions to act upon. Delegates are expected from Johns Hopkins University, University of Florida, North Carolina State College, and Alabama Polytechnic Institute (Auburn). Members of the local chapter in college at this time are: W. M. Cox, R. R. Jones, Marion Murray, G. M. Ford, W. Z. Bradford, J. M. Williams, J. E. Singletary, J. B. Gallant, and A. M. Sample. STUDENTS TO AID IN NEAR EAST RELIEF WORK Several Davidson men will fill important places in the Near East Relief Campaign which will be conducted in this state just after New Year this winter. Mr. Beall of Charlotte is state manager, and it is his plan to conduct the campaign from January 1, through the college year, sending out speakers for the weekends to all important places in the state. He has asked for help from the Davidson students and many have responded. There was a meeting of those interested some time ago, and the following are to go to Charlotte Nov. 30, Dec. 1, for a two-day course of instruction in the campaign purposes, plans, and methods: H. M. White, D. B. Wharton, A. P. Hudgin, J. H. Davis, D. B. Walthall, P. J. Story, and T. A. Guion. These men are to go on weekend deputations at any time on notice from Mr. Beall. These men, without doubt some of our best speakers, have responded to the call and will render valuable service in the campaign. There is still a chance for others to help in this if they are interested in the work. Mr. Williams and H. M. White are in charge of the work, and anyone interested can see them. This is another chance for Davidson men to add to Davidson's reputation for service to Christ, State, and community. STUDENTS AID GREATLY IN FINISHING GRIDIRON Soon after the present session began, the offer was made to the student body to allow them to work at 25 cents an hour, in completing the new athletic field. It was accepted immediately by over a hundred students during the first two weeks. This work lasted until the later part of October but the amount of extra work available to students became constantly less as the field neared completion. Due to this fact, the number of students taking advantage of the work became smaller each day. J. D. Laws had charge of the student payroll and his records show the following figures: At the end of the first week, 135 students were paid for work done and the total amount paid was $240.35. During the following two weeks, the number of students working fell to 105 and the amount paid to $168.42. In the last two weeks, work was very scarce and only 52 men found employment. The payroll this time amounted to only $67.00. Adding up these figures, it can be seen that the total amount paid was $475.77 and that this was paid to 292 men, which averages $1.63 per man. PROF. FOREMAN TALKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND At the weekly meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday, it was addressed by Professor Foreman. He gave an inspiring talk on the 18th verse of 1 Samuel, 16. Professor Foreman brought out the significance of each trait of David's character to the ministerial student. David was first spoken of as a man winning in playing. This was David's hobby. Every minister should also have a hobby to refresh his mind and soul. David was a mighty valiant man. He was a strong and healthy specimen of manhood. Also, every preacher who expects to do his best for God must have a vigorous body. David was a man of war. Thus, a minister must fight the forces of evil in the world. Professor Foreman emphasized the fact that David was a comely person. This was a reference, not to his physical beauty, but to the glory which radiated from his face, because of his internal contact with God. At the conclusion of 1 Sam. 16 are the words, “and the Lord was with him,” as he will be with every person who has such a character. Professor Foreman brought out the fact that this description of David was when he was a young man. He changed somewhat later on in his life.