Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

WRIGLEYS

N. C. COLLEGE JOURNALISTS
(Continued from page 1)

ALHAMBRA — THIS WEEK — Johnny “Bozo” Mattise and his legiate Press Association are: Liston D. Elkins, of Davidson, president;
J. D. Secrest, of Trinity, first vice-president; George V. Allen, of Trinity, second vice-president; Miss Ruth Hadley, of G. C.
W., treasurer; Miss Sara Thomas, of Queens, secretary.

The delegates to the convention from the college newspapers and magazines of the state were as follows:

Have a packet in your pocket for ever-ready refreshment. Aids digestion. Allays thirst. Soothes the throat.

Salemite—Adelaide Armfield, Hazel Stephenson.

Queens Blues—Annie Parks Moore, Sara Davenport.

Weekly Record—Beulah Heafner.

Guilfordian—Maud Simpson.

The Acorn—Gladys Strickland, Frances Heyward.

The Davidsonian—C. M. S. McIlwaine, R. L. Price, L. D. Elkins.

Trinity Chronicle—D. T. House, J. D. Secrest.

Trinity Archive—W. J. Bullock, H. A. Oliver.

Message—Maxine Gardner, Jessie Thompson, Ruth Hadley.

Gold and Black—E. H. Moore, J. M. Parker.

Wake Forest Student—S. N. Lamb.

Maroon and Gold—W. B. Terrell, S. M. Charlotte.

Tar Heel—C. P. Colton, J. M. Saunders.

Carolinian—Lena Smith, Elizabeth Duffy.

Coraddi—Maude Goodwin, Viola Celtz.

Technician—J. E. Brind, C. L. Walton, T. O. Evans, Jr.

The Twig—Frances Cherry, Margaret Overton, Dorothy McBrayer.

Dixie Darlings

“Cut out that monkey business,” said Bill Heston to the doctor, just before going under the influence of ether for
an appendicitis operation.

NEXT WEEK — Famous Backs Draw.

Their meeting, it was sudden; Their meeting, it was sad; She gave away her bright young life— The only one
she had.

And there beneath the willows She is lying now, For there’s always something doing When a freight train hits a
cow.

We don't quite get the meaning of Jim Carr's campus cards reading “Let’s not, Miss Albert.” We wonder what Miss
Alberta has been trying to seduce Jim into doing.

Izzy Thames announces that his M.A. thesis will be an illuminating study on phosphorescent glow, entitled The Tale of a
Lightning-bug.

Walthall gives as his opinion that there's no use to marry a girl to get her off your mind, for
she'll be on your hands then.

Big Ikey—Vell, little Ikey, you have a new brudder dis morning. Little Ikey—Oowee, Papa, let's go tell mama.

Soph—It’s a pity we have no dances up here. Fresh—Well, I dunno, we have an attendance at most every class.

“Where there's life there is soap,” soliloquized Fresh Hubbard while taking his Saturday nighter.

Yes, Jerald, that steady planking on the keyboard is Frosh McConnell practising his correspondence music course.

Our Prize Dumbell—One who thinks that the Book of Ruth is a baseball guide.

That’s not much worse than the Hick who thought that the Book of Job was an employment bureau's catalog.

HOLIDAY PLANS (Continued from page 1)

The Cretin, This play is a psychological tragedy of a mono-maniac, a neurotic, and four imbeciles. It deals with the
situation with half-wits—a weird and gripping drama—and with the strong characterization required will prove fascinating. The cast is:

Ahom—Ahem—" said the seamstress, as she sewed one more on the bottom of the skirt.

DAVIDSON ON NOVEMBER 28 AND 30

College Jewelry Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning of the provided OCR text.265 R. R. Jones
Mail Orders
12 Duane Street, New York City

We wish to take this means of expressing our appreciation of the loyal spirit of fair Dr. Corrugio.
W. Otto, his son

2-2-8. Sauese
Ig—What would a lawyer wear to town if his best suit was being cleaned?
Natz—Why, his law suit, of course.

The student body as a whole rushed onto the field to extricate the one dishonest man who was trying to
beat his way into the game. Whether the purpose was accomplished or not, we are sure that the student body
was sincere in its desire to do the right thing.

Irate Father (lecturing son)—I can’t understand it. Why, in my young days a boy could start as a clerk in
a store and in a few years be at the head of the business.
Son (breaking in)—But, father, you forget that you came up before the time of cash registers.

Speck MacConnell—I see, Nappy, where a man claims to have royal blood in his veins on the grounds that he
was once stung by a queen bee.
Nappy—That’s nothing, I've been stung by a bumble bee.
Speck—That accounts for you being a bum.

Kelly Moore (writing memory work on English 2)—If we've forgotten a word, professor, what'll we do, just leave it out?
Professor—Moore, what is the sense of the tennis court sometime in the front line?

A son of Abraham, somewhat abbreviated of stature, was giving vent to his fiery wrath before a crowd concerning the
actions, bad and otherwise, of that well-known fraternity that uses sheets for more purposes than just to lie on.
“Yass,” he exploded, “show me vun of dose Ku Kluxers and I vill show you a dirty dog.”
At this sally, Pat, a big hulk of an Irishman, with two hundred and fifty pounds of brawn, glared at
him a moment, then said, “Well, phwat do yez think I am?” rolling up one of his ham-like fists.
“Vell,” said the Jew, “I'm a dirty dog.”

Smart—“Does Prince Albert have that smart look about him this fall?”
Set—“Couldn’t tell you about that, but Tuxedo does.”
