THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1923

Wildcat Grid Men

Captain E. S. Faison

Elias Sampson Faison, ‘Lias, belongs to that class of men who play a steady game, and who excel by natural
ability. Coming to Davidson in the fall of 1920 from the town of Faison, N.C., ‘Lias got off to a
good start by making the varsity squad, and football letter, during his Freshman year, and his steady going has not
allowed any let-up in his list of honors. Faison has been a great factor in the Wildcat elevens of the
past three years, always playing a good game at right end. His defensive work has been outstanding, and his steady
play has won him several mentions as All-State end. Last year his comrades saw fit to bestow upon him the
burden of leadership, and ‘Lias comes forth this year as Captain of the Wildcat squad. In the two games already
played, ‘Lias has shown his ability as a leader and put the old pep in the outfit.

Nor does ‘Lias excel only on the gridiron. His strong personality and natural leadership brought him the presidency of his
class during his Junior year, and this year he is President of the Athletic Association. For his all-around ability, O.D.K.
has seen fit to choose him as a member of that honorary fraternity. ‘Lias excels in all lines, mostly in
the hearts of his fellow students.

M. D. Fields

Mason Fields was born in Atlanta, Georgia. He has never gotten away from the unmistakable Georgia carriage, which distinguishes all
citizens of that state at Davidson. Strange to say, Mason brought with him a reputation which he has ably lived
up to since. Mason came to Davidson and so endeared himself in the hearts of his classmates that he was
elected President of the Freshman class. This position he ably filled even though his position was often difficult and his
way was rough. In his Freshman year, he made a place on the squad which gave him much experience which
he was to use so well later. In his Sophomore year, Mason shone forth in his true light. He quickly
earned a berth on the regular team as center and guard. In each game, he fought with the characteristic Wildcat
fight and dash. A bad knee kept him out of the game part of the time, much to the disappointment
of students. In his Junior year, Mason again donned the moleskins and again showed himself a true Wildcat in his
fight and steady playing. Quick to diagnose the opponents’ play, he was in the thick of every fight. At the
present time, Mason has shown up even better in the games of the 1923 season. As center, he is the
pivot on which the offense plows through the opposing line. On defense, he is a stone-wall by which the Wildcat
line crushes the attacks of the opponents.

C. E. Hodgin

C. E. Hodgin, sometimes known as “Hogan,” hails from that beautiful little city of Greensboro in the good old North
State. Charlie plays left tackle on the varsity team this season and he shows his ability in the old game.
He weighs about one hundred and sixty-five pounds and is a rather tall, angular make-up of humanity, but he has
learned to manipulate those dangling-looking limbs and in his tackling he is very aggressive and is good at breaking through
the line. He puts his manhood behind his plays and it makes him a hard tackler. This is his second
year on the squad and even though he was only on the scrub team last year, Coach Monk saw some
good stuff in Charles and worked him out till he could hold a place on the regular line-up. He has
played class football every year and has been a strong man on his class team. He shows his ability as
a player and it may be predicted that when Coach Monk hands out that coveted “D,” Hodgin will be among
those who will get one. Charlie is not only interested in football but he holds a hand in the other
activities of campus life. He takes his place in the social life as is evidenced at times. He sees the
need to be a public speaker for he is active in Literary Society work. He was vice-president of the Metrophilian
Society one term last session. On the cinder path, he shows his stuff too for he was on his class
track team last spring. Charlie took his prep work at McCallie.

W. M. Cox

Warren Murdock Cox, Jr., one of the many sons the state of Alabama has sent to Davidson, made his left
with the Davidson gridiron varsity in 1922 by playing consistent football at the position of guard. Coming to Davidson from
Mobile with some good prep school experience, Warren scrapped hard for three years to earn the coveted “D.” Cox has
always delivered with good playing when called upon. Tipping the scales for less than the 150 mark, Cox has instilled
in his muscles and sinews plenty of fighting spirit to make up for his lack in weight to play a
line position. Once in a while, Davidson coaches have seen fit to play Cox at the pivot position. His defensive
work both at guard and at center was notable during the games he played last year. This year finds Warren
back in the moleskin, ready for the call to serve with Coach Younger’s machine.

100 R. R. CARS WILL BRING GIANT CIRCUS

Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Add Entire Shipload of Big, New European Features

Arriving aboard 100 double-length railroad cars forming trains more than one and one-third miles long, and made even greater than
in 1922 by the addition of many big, new foreign acts, Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Combined will exhibit
at Charlotte, Tuesday, October 30th. Those who read the daily papers or keep in touch with the movie newsreels need
not be reminded of the shipload of acts and animals recently imported by the Greatest Show on Earth. The remarkable
cargo includes two companies of baby elephants now joined with forty adults of the mammoth herd. There were also 100
more performing horses accompanied by Europe’s greatest trainer, and many wild animals, which have been added to the scores of
trained jungle beasts, while others have become part of the marvelous menagerie. More than a million persons saw the new
circus of 1923 during the weeks that it exhibited in Madison Square Garden, New York. Now this marvelous exhibition is
touring the country aboard five great trains. It is a third bigger than the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey
of last season. It is ten times larger than any other circus now on tour. Big as is this wonder
circus of 1923—with its more than 30 trained wild animal displays in steel arenas, fully 200 wonderfully schooled horses, 700
men and women performers, 100 clowns, and scores of features—the price of admission is no more than before. And though
the trained animal numbers and the immense horse show were circuses in themselves while touring Europe, they are not offered
as separate attractions by the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey. Instead, all are on one gigantic program. Everything is
in one mammoth main tent. One ticket admits to all these and to the tremendous double menagerie. There are more
than a thousand animals in the zoo of this circus and these include entire families of hippopotami and giraffes. Another
remarkable zoological feature is an armored rhinoceros, the only one known to exist and alone worth $50,000.

CAROLINA GAME GOES TO CHAPEL HILL THIS YEAR

The Davidson-Carolina game is to be played at Chapel Hill on Saturday, November 17. Final decision as to the site
of the game was made last week by the athletic authorities of the University of North Carolina. It had been
hoped at Davidson that this important contest would be held in Charlotte. Carolina will meet the V.M.I. team at Richmond
this year, making it necessary that the Davidson game be brought to Chapel Hill to balance their schedule. According to
contract, the game will be held on Richardson Field next year. Since the distance to Chapel Hill is too great
to warrant a special, the Wildcat boosters who accompany the team will probably be weak in numbers.ROUNDING INTO SHAPE

The cross-country track team is being rounded into shape for the State meet in December. The fifteen men composing this
year’s team are preparing for the event. The best bets for the Wildcats seem to be Spee McConnel, Selser, and
Williford. McConnel is strong in the mile, holding the college record for the longer distance, and promises to be just
as good this year. Selser was the only man on the Davidson team who placed in the State meet last
fall, finishing third and running all the way to the tape. Williford, although perhaps not as strong a bet as
the other two, is thoroughly reliable and promises to be a real find. Besides these, there are several freshmen who
may get a chance to prove their mettle. The prospects for a victory in December are bright.

STATE VOLUNTEERS MEET AT GUILFORD COLLEGE

The bands of the various colleges met at Guilford College, October 12-14, for their regular fall meeting. The purpose of
the meeting was to formulate definite plans for the coming session. One of the main points of interest was the
matter of the two conferences: the International at Indianapolis, December 28 to January 1, and the State conference at Charlotte
about the first of March. Mr. Shaufier, the Education Secretary of the movement, was present and brought a message from
headquarters. Those from Davidson attending were A. M. McBryde and A. P. Hudgins. The meeting was an entire success, and
the prospects for the year’s work in the State Volunteer Union are unusually bright.

(Continued from page 2)

suffering a defeat, however, of 28 to 7. It is a strong team, and it is going to be a
great fight between the Tigers and the Wildcats. Carolina follows as the next opponent of Davidson, and Carolina is going
strong. She has proven her prowess by eliminating Wake Forest and Trinity by the scores of 22 to 0 and
14 to 6, respectively, but Yale ran through the lines of her second team for a final score of 53
to 0. Chapel Hill will witness this battle on November 27. Davidson has not met any of the opponents that
Carolina has faced, and the comparative strength of these two teams cannot be intimated. The last game of the season
is to be played in Charlotte on Thanksgiving with the Trinity team. Though the Methodists have been defeated by Carolina,
it does not mean that they are giving up. The first of the season indicated an unusually strong team for
Trinity, but the defeat by Carolina last Friday has upset the dope. Carolina outplayed the Methodists, and the result of
the Carolina-Davidson fight might indicate the outcome of the final game of the season. Every one of the remaining six
games that Davidson has on her schedule is going to be closely watched. Davidson has already proven that she has
one of the strongest elevens in the state, and the results of the games each week will be watched with
hawk-like interest. Davidson's team this year is one of the best seen here in some years, and the students, realizing
this, are wholeheartedly backing them to the limit.

ASSOCIATION WITH CHRIST STRESSED BY MR. WILLIAMS

"Young Men, Christ-Associated" was the subject on which Mr. Williams, Y. M. C. A. secretary, addressed the Ministerial Band at
its regular meeting Sunday afternoon. “The men on the campus look to you,” began the speaker, “to uphold the spirit
of Christ on the campus, that spirit without which there could be no real Davidson Spirit. You are one of
the great organizations to which the campus looks for leadership in religious life on the hill. As long as this
band remains intact, those great principles for which Davidson stands will be upheld.

“The world expects of us that we be real men—men with courage to stand for what we know to be
right in the face of all odds.” Here Mr. Williams told of the stand taken by a well-known civic club.
Attending his first meeting prior to his initiation, the minister heard a joke of questionable nature and immediately notified the
club that he would not join a club that permitted such conduct in its meetings. The members of the club
all went to the minister, urging him to join, and he finally joined on the condition that all such procedures
be omitted from the club. His action was the means of creating a new and nobler spirit within the club,
magnifying the club’s influence for good in the community.

“We are here to mold character, to make men that are worthy to be called men of God. Association with
Christ and with His people is absolutely necessary if we are to exert influence for Him among men. While we
must keep away from the worldly evils that surround us, yet we must be in closest touch with the world
in order to lead men to Him.”

DELTA PI KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)

D. Wilkins, Watt McCain, and W. Z. Price are members of the Senior class and the old fraternity. The scholastic
year of 1923-24 promises to be a good one for Delta Pi Kappa. Steps are being taken to become affiliated
with some national journalistic fraternity this fall. The members of the frat hope to make the Davidsonian a better paper
and to keep it in the front ranks of college weeklies throughout the country.

MR. F. L. JACKSON SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)

“The greatest message of Jonah probably is the call to be representatives of Christ, to find our place as He
would have it and to live accordingly.” Mr. Jackson emphasized the need for Christian living in our daily lives. He
was not making a call for ministers, but he urged those everywhere who are in the Church to find their
place in life and to help others to a realization of their proper sphere. Due to the inability of the
speaker who had been engaged to be present, Mr. Jackson was asked only upon short notice to fill the vacancy,
and though with very little time for preparation, his message was not lacking in forcefulness. Mr. M. Regen read the
scripture and introduced the speaker to the audience.

DEBATING FRATERNITY

(Continued from page 1)

Professor C. K. Brown, a graduate of Davidson, was an intercollegiate debater for two years and won many honors for
the Phi Society and for the college. I. Dendy, '10, is Professor of Public Speaking and has had a large
dramatic experience. W. Z. Bradford is president of the Metrophilian Society and has won two medals. D. J. Storey is
critic of the Phi Society and has also won two medals. J. L. McLean is president of the Phi Society
and has one medal to his credit. D. B. Wharton won two medals and is now treasurer of the Phi
Society. The Phi Chapter of the National organization Alpha Phi Epsilon was formed last spring from the Gavel Society and
the chapter promises to fill a long-felt need on the campus.

PARKER ANNOUNCES A New One for Students

Parker D-Q—the Note-taker Pen, $3. Strong metal girdle reinforces cap. Large ring-end links to note-book. Pocket-clip if you prefer—No extra
charge for either.

We asked about 1000 students at seventeen universities and colleges the kind of pen they wanted. The majority preferred the
Parker, but not all could afford to pay the Parker Duofold price. So we set to work and produced this
black beauty—the Parker D. Q.—formed on Duofold’s classic lines and made by the same crafts-guild. We gave it a 14k
gold point tipped with polished Iridium, and a good healthy ink capacity; then we added two things we could find
on no other pen of this size below five dollars—a metal girdle to reinforce the cap; and an extra-large ring
link to fasten to the student’s note-book. These features are included free, or a pocket-clip instead of ring-end. The Parker
D. Q. is an ink-tight pen. Ask to see it—note its shapeliness and balance. Try other pens too, and see
how super-smooth the Parker is in comparison.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, JANESVILLE, WIS. Manufacturers also of Parker “Lucky Lock” Pencils.

Parker D. Q. Banded Cap—Large Ring or Clip—Duofold Standards.

FOR SALE BY WHITE DRUG CO. W. S. HENDERSON
