4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............ Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH.................. Forum Editor
D. GEE......................... First Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN.................. Second Managing Editor
D. H. OGDEN................. Y. M. C. A. Editor
R. R. JONES.................. Assignment Editor
W. T. REIDY.................. Social Editor
E. H. MAUZE.................. Athletic Editor
H. M. MORRIS............... Literary Editor
J. F. WILDMAN............. Alumni Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD.......... Press Editor
W. M. COX..................... Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD.......... Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY.......... Assistant Manager
M. C. BARRINGTON, C. MINTER, H. C. F. BAILEY, J. A. SERRY, J. M. McINTOSH, B. V. D. NANCEFORD

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. I. PRICE, JH, DAVID G. ROWE, and W. G. GUILLE........ Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN.... Office Assistant
J. J. BOSCH.................. Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN.............. Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON.......... Asst. Circulation Mgr.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.
CALHOUN, M. P.
EARNEST, R.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
LAKE, J. A.
McILWAINE, C. M.
McIVER, D. D.
MAUZE, G. W.
MOFFETT, A. N.
MOORE, W. H.
PATTON, H. B.
POMEROY, W. L.
PRICE, R. L.
SHARPE, W. H.
WALTHALL, D. B.
WHARTON, D. B.
WILDMAN, A. C.
WHITE, H. M.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

Spring weather seems to be bringing a wave of enthusiasm for horse-shoe pitching as strong if not stronger than usual. A tournament for all the artists in this line should be arranged.

Along with the hot weather of summer and its flies and bugs, a set of screens for the windows of the dormitories would certainly bring a comfort not known here usually in May, June, September, and October.

With all the rain that we have had recently, there should be very little left for Speaking. All records should be broken by a long stretch of balmy spring weather to cap the climax of an enjoyable occasion.

Ten days ago, the Queens Choral Club gave us a fine musical operetta. With a program by this Dramatic Club about to be put on, everyone will soon be anxious to pay them a return visit.

JUNIOR SPEAKING

The Juniors are certainly planning to put on a Speaking this year that their class and the whole school can well be proud of. The program at present looks more attractive than any of its kind in the past. Baseball and football games bring athletic entertainment; a cabaret affair at the Gym should cause a large amount of enjoyment, and offer something novel also; and a Pink Tea for all men with girls will certainly be a pleasant innovation. Too many customers and not enough pro-innovation. All these things should make everyone of us want to be here Easter and have a girl up. More pleasure can be had here than by going off, and the larger crowd that we have the more successfully will the Juniors be able to make their part, and the more enjoyable the occasion will be for all concerned. Let’s all be on hand!

A LIFE WORK

When a man enters college, and especially when he reaches his Junior year, it is almost essential to his future success that he have in view an end toward which all his energies can be turned. For the greatest possible success and happiness, it is necessary that the will of God shall lead him in making his decision; to choose that work for which he is best fitted, and for the accomplishment of which he has been created. With this fact in view, it is easy to see that the life work conferences which are conducted at Davidson every year by prominent and influential men of the Church hold a very high place among the helpful and instructive things that this college has to offer its students. Dr. Clark, of Columbia Seminary, has conducted such a conference for us during the past week-end, that can hardly be rivaled in its interest throughout and very beneficial, and, we hope, lasting in influences. The series of talks that Dr. Clark made held the attention of every man present and at the same time put clearly before him the issues he had to face in choosing his life-work. The illustrations, both from the Bible and from life, which he used so freely and effectively in all his talks, were told in such a dramatic and forceful manner that everyone saw lessons in them that even those among us who were most familiar with Bible narrative had never before realized were there. These stories brought home his truths with great emphasis; they served to convince in a way that nothing else could have. Now, when this series of services is just over, its effect upon us all is most pronounced. We have all seen our future in a new light, and probably have all determined to face life with a more manly and Christian bearing. Many, by, there is much chance that these good results may wear away; that our bits will once more take possession of us. Let us all strive to keep such undesirable and hurtful circumstances from coming to pass. Attendance at “Y” services could be greatly increased. There we can keep alive the new life that has come over us. In many ways, the effects to be felt here on the campus.

MORE TRUTH THAN POETRY

Longfellow could take a worthless piece of paper and write a poem on it and make it worth $65,000.—THAT’S GENIUS.
John D. Rockefeller, Ford, Schwab, can write words on a piece of paper and it’s worth several million dollars—THAT’S CAPITAL.
A mechanic can take material worth 50 cents and make it into watch springs worth thousands of dollars—THAT’S SKILL.
There is a man in Paris who can take a fifty cent piece of canvas, paint a picture on it and make it worth $1,000.—THAT’S ART.
A merchant can take an article worth ninety cents and sell it for three dollars.—THAT’S BUSINESS.
You can get a sack of good tobacco for 5 cents—THAT’S BULL.
The author of this could write a check for $19,000,000.00, but it wouldn’t be worth a cent—THAT’S TOUGH.—The Petree.

Ray Peeler—Ruth, did you ever hear a sermon on John 2:1-5?
Ruth Barringer—No.
Peeler—Well, would you like to hear it?
Ruth—I don’t know. What is it?
Peeler—I beseech you therefore lady that we love one another.
Ruth—Ah, shut your mouth.

One B. M. C. girl yells to another, “Where is my mail?”
Another Girl, “He’s over in front of the post office.”

THE MATTER WITH AMERICA

What’s the matter with America these days?
Too many diamonds, not enough alarm clocks.
Too many silk shirts, not enough blue flannel ones.
Too many pointed-toed shoes and not enough square-toed ones.
Too many serge suits and not enough overalls.
Too many decollete gowns and not enough aprons.
Too many satin upholstered limousines and not enough cows.
Too many customers and not enough producers.
Too much oil stock and not enough savings accounts.
Too much envy of the results of hard work and too little desire to emulate.
Too many desiring short cuts to wealth and too few willing to pay the price.
Too much of the spirit of “get while the getting is good,” and not enough of the old-fashioned Christianity.
Too much discontent that vents itself in mere complaining and too little real effort to remedy conditions.
Too much class consciousness and too little common democracy and love of humanity.—Fargo, S. D. Forum.

What’s Doing

FRIDAY
3:00 p.m.—Fresh vs. Sophs, Football.
10:00 p.m.—Reporters Club Meeting.

SATURDAY
3:30 p.m.—Juniors vs.Seniors, Football. 7:30 p.m.—Marion Davies in “When Knighthood Was in Flower.”

SUNDAY
10:00 a.m.—Volunteer Band.

Dr. Dine’s Daily Dope

By special arrangement of the Davidsonian, Dr. I. O. Dine, chief skin-grafter and shekel extractor of the No Hope Hospital, will give free medical advice to all ailing ones through this column. Send him your ailment as he guarantees quick and satisfactory relief of each and every case submitted to his attention.

Dear Doctor: How can I avoid falling hair?
Answer: Merely step nimbly to one side and let it fall.

Reports from Crown Prince's roommate state that Crown awakened himself the other night by his own snoring. This report explains that unusually loud noise that has been heard so much lately.

Dear Doc: I was at a funeral the other day and helped to bury a man. He had been unconscious for many days and they could not tell just when he died. Do you suppose he was still living when we buried him?
WORRIED P. H. BIDDLE.
Answer: My dear Mr. Biddle: I cannot say at the present time whether he was dead or not, but if he wasn’t, you certainly played a dirty trick on him.
DR. DINE.

I am grievously afflicted with falling arches. What can I do?
R. G. WHITE.
Answer: Let 'em fall, they can’t fall far.
I. O. DINE.

Dear Doc: What remedy is there for bow legs?
Answer: Try friend Coue's formula—“Every day in every way my legs are getting straighter and straighter.” Only don’t carry it too far. You might become knock-kneed.
DR. I. O. DINE.

My memory is so poor. Can you tell me what is the matter? Everything I hear comes in one ear and goes out the other.
EDDIE MATHEWS.
Answer: Probably there is nothing in there to check its progress.
I. O. DINE.

In the spring the minds of all men turn to thoughts of bat and ball, while worldly cares they cuss and spurn to hear the umpire’s call. The tang and zest of balmy days when April breezes blow, when bluebirds warble roundelays to chase the winter’s snow, and when alone the primal call of action swift and bold, possesses hearts and minds of all within its honored fold. The swish of spheres in the ozone, the smack of glove and mitt, the thrill of watching some fool ‘bone’ whenever the ball is hit; ‘tis then the latent fires within awaken young and old of lovers of the sport of men that beats the race for gold, where grasping minds are prone to rake the shekels from the hands of those that cannot put and take to keep their homes and lands. “Old Baseball is the king of sports,” the poets do declare. It is the one whose dire reports make thousands rave and rare whenever the favorite fails to biff the pill that splits the plate, who swings the willow with a lift but just a bit late. The crack that marks a hit by Ruth re-echoes through the land, from Greenland’s icy hills to India’s Coral Strand. The ash stick that fans the air whenever the horsehide’s thrown, makes some a smile of triumph wear and countless thousands moan. The shortstop muffs a wicked hop that to him skips and sails, and when he yelps and lets it drop, the fans set up a yell. Though beats the sun upon the field the bleachers and the stand are filled with those whose minds will yield to baseball’s strong demands. What joy compares with that of ball no one can safely say, which sporty fashion takes our all and leads our minds astray. All work and not a bit of play will dull the wits on one who keeps his nostrils in a book and sees no life! Then what care we for world-wide strife that goes against our gall? Why not seek joy in this short life and heed the umpire’s call?

MONDAY
8:33 a.m.—Election of Student Body officers.

TUESDAY
10:00 a.m.—Ministerial Band.
1:15 p.m.—Christian Endeavor class.
3:30 p.m.—Sunday School.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper Service.
6:45 p.m.—Metrophilian Society.
7:15 p.m.—Pandenic Society.

WEDNESDAY
7:30 p.m.—Address by Doctor Lomax.
9:00 p.m.—Bible Classes.

THURSDAY

A number of Davidson people motored over to Concord Tuesday afternoon to attend the Davidson-Concord girls' basketball game. The local quintet came home victorious.