~ DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Coach Currie’s Diamond (Continued from Page 7)

from South Carolina, seems destined to hold down the center suburb. In the field, his great speed enables him to
absorb any ball within a wide cruising zone. Although a light hitter, he will draw many a free transportation to
first, and ever on base, his speed will make him a terror to the opposing teams. Vance, the Freshman slugger,
will probably be seen in the right field. While not a polished player, he has shown a remarkable ability to
hammer the old apple against the left field fence. His weakness seems to be curve balls. Boushee, a pitcher, if
needed, is capable of holding down the center.

Monarch Coffee “Costs You Less” H. M. Johnson

PUBLIC SALES

We have purchased 122,000 pairs of U. S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 5½ to 12, which was the entire
surplus stock of one of the largest U. S. Government shoe contractors. This shoe is guaranteed one hundred percent solid
leather, color dark tan, bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof. The actual value of this shoe is $6.00. Owing to this
tremendous buy, we can offer the same to the public at $2.95. Send correct size. Pay postman on delivery or
send money order. If shoes are not as represented, we will cheerfully refund your money promptly upon request.

National Bay State Shoe Company 296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N. Y.

DAVIDSON VISITED BY HEALTH SPECIALIST

A very successful free clinic was held in the town of Davidson by Dr. Spruill, a public health specialist, Feb.
27th through March 3rd. Twenty-one cases of tuberculosis were found and thirty-nine people advised as to preventative measures, as follows:
16 positive, active cases including 10 white adults, 2 white children, 3 colored adults, 1 negro child; 3 inactive cases,
all 3 white adults; 2 doubtful cases, advised as to preventative measures, including 2 white adults; 13 advised milk diet
as a preventative, including 4 white adults and nine white children; 32 advised tonsils removed, including 4 white adults, 4
white children, 24 negro children; 1 advised teeth removed, 1 negro adult; 3 advised hookworm examination; 3 white children; 1
advised hypothyroidism treated, 1 white adult. All others examined were found negative.

This clinic was made possible by the sale of Christmas seals. $105.06 was raised in Davidson this year, this being
about ten times the usual amount. The thanks of the committee are extended to Dr. J. J. Withers for the
use of his office and to the Civic League for its Hall, to Mr. J. R. Withers for donating a
load of wood to the four out-of-town men who gave us talks on tuberculosis, to the assistant county health officer
and nurse, and to those citizens who so unselfishly gave of their time and strength to the work of the
clinic.

(Signed) LOUISE WITHERS SLOAN, Chairman of the Christmas Seals Committee.

Junior Speaking Promises (Continued from Page 1)

A proportion of each class has announced intentions of seeing the thing through from the beginning to the final wind-up.
The stress of each man having a girl as his guest is beginning to bear.

BLUE ESTABLISHES CHEVROLET AGENCY

Mr. J. M. Blue, a well-known citizen of Davidson, has recently secured the agency for the Chevrolet motor car for
this vicinity. His headquarters will be here at Davidson, but his work will carry him throughout this section of the
county. Mr. Blue was formerly for some time Superintendent of the Linden Manufacturing Company of this city and has only
recently given up that position.

Miss Mary Black continues quite ill at her home on Concord Street.

The Girl Scouts of the town will sell candies at the movies every Saturday evening.

Mr. and Mrs. Jerry Spaugh of Greensboro are guests of Mrs. Albert M. Cathey on South Street.

PICTORIAL REVIEW McCALL’S MAGAZINE DELINEATOR AMERICAN BOY THE YOUTH’S COMPANION ST. NICHOLAS LITTLE FOLKS MAGAZINE

VICTORIA WITHERS DAVIDSON TOWN NEWS

Mrs. P. W. Booe is visiting her brother in Spartanburg, S. C.

Miss Grace Goodrum attended the district League Union meeting last Friday and Saturday.

Dr. and Mrs. Fraser Hood, in company with the Misses Young, plan to spend Easter in Winston-Salem.

Sympathy is felt for the sexton of the Presbyterian church, Monroe Byrnes, whose son, Walter, died last Wednesday and was
buried in the colored cemetery east of town.

Mrs. Browley, mother of J. T. Browley, was in town last week.

NEW MEN RECEIVED BY SIGMA UPSILON

The Sigma Upsilon national literary fraternity held its annual initiation on Monday night. The initiates were R. R. Jones, W.
F. Galloway, W. M. Heston, and L. D. Elkins. After having been prepared for induction into the fellowship of the
fraternity, the new men were introduced to the ideals and mysteries of the fraternity. The initiation was followed by a
short business meeting in which it was decided that the fraternity would take up the study of a series of
short plays produced by the Carolina Playmakers of the University of North Carolina. The meeting ended with the serving of
refreshments.

The members of the faculty who were present were Dr. Fraser Hood, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Mr. L. M. Currie,
and Dr. E. J. Erwin, president of the national fraternity. Mr. R. R. McIlwaine and Mr. J. G. Garth, alumni
from Charlotte, were also present.

The Quadrangle Club, composed mainly of members of the college faculty, held their monthly meeting Friday evening, assembling in the
Civic League Hall. After a general discussion, there was a presentation by the Davidson Cornel-...Host of the American Legion. The
committee on “eats,” a tempting course in salads, sandwiches, coffee, cakes, and chocolate.

Story is based on Edward Everett Hale’s immortal "The Man Without a Country," starring Arnold Daly, supported by an admirable
cast. Davidson, N.C. D.L.V. "The Man Without a Country" will be shown by the Men’s U.S. Army. By a vote
of the majority, Dr. H.B. Arbuckle, who is an authority on bee culture, both as a student and as a
theorist putting into practice his knowledge, assures both quantity and quality. Patriotism and love are the keynotes of the fairest
of the fair sex. The eradication comes Saturday!

Havas: by special request, an address on the production and well-worked session last night in the gym when a cabaret
extravaganza will be opened to the fun-loving public of Davidson. From the ordinary “Hill,” one will be magically transplanted to
the lights and fun of New York, to the jazz and joy of jolly Frisco, to the whirl of Coney
Island, and to the mellifluent charm of the roadside cabaret. The details have not been exposed, but the Juniors have
it up their sleeves, and there is no doubt that it will create a sensation.

The complete program is as follows:
Thursday night, Picture Show—Adam’s Rib.
Friday morning, Junior Speeches.
Friday afternoon, Baseball—Oakridge vs. Davidson.
Friday evening, Plays. Three One-Act Plays.
Saturday morning, Two Class Football games.
Saturday afternoon, Baseball—Oakridge vs. Davidson.
Saturday after the game, Fraternity Pink Tea.
Saturday evening, Cabaret at Gym.
Sunday evening, Special “Y” Service.
Monday night, Picture Show.

Exceedingly Bright Prospects (Continued from Page 2)
Wm. Johnson, and the former Australian champion of the world. It is a slow-motion film and is coming to Davidson
from the United States Lawn Tennis Association in the hope that it will stimulate interest in tennis. The film is
for instruction rather than amusement and as such will prove a great help to the tennis enthusiasts of Davidson in
improving their playing.

D. Hic: “If the doctor has a date with your girl, what would you do?”
Palmolive: “Eat an apple a day.”

The lecture, covering the large part of the hour, was informative. The many friends of Miss Adele Shelton will be
glad to know that she is improving from her recent operation. The 10th grade of the High School put out
the first issue of an attractive little pamphlet this week. Miss Madeline Cathey has been ill for a few days
but is meeting classes again this week. Miss Elizabeth Potts visited friends in Charlotte last week.

Last week the Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. James L. Currie and in spite of the serious operation at
the Mercy General Hospital in Charlotte, Dr. Melton Clark spent several enjoyable hours on the Davidson golf course in the
company of Doctor Arbuckle. The Intermediate Christian Endeavor Society of the local church presented a delightful pageant at their meeting
last Sunday. Miss Johnnie Shelton had charge of the affair.

The Book Lovers’ Club had a most interesting meeting at the home of Mrs. James Currie last week, at which
Miss Lizzie Young read a splendid paper on Ruskin’s ability as an author. The program for the coming year was
discussed and decided upon. Mrs. Irwin has been ill for the past week. Her large circle of friends joins in
wishing her a speedy recovery. Miss Mary Richards, who teaches at Mocksville, N.C., spent the weekend with her father, Dr.
C.M. Richards. Mrs. Richards has been visiting friends in South Carolina and Georgia.

The Civic League is making a great effort to have a clean-up week. Mrs. Lingle, who is in charge of
the work, visited the white and colored schools last Saturday and secured the interest of the children in the movement.
Miss Grace James, a senior at Winthrop College, spent the weekend at the home of her uncle, Dr. J.P. Douglas.
Mrs. W.R. Grey, Mrs. Wharey, and Mrs. J.M. Douglas spent Sunday in Hickory, N.C., attending the fiftieth anniversary of the
Presbyterian church at that place. The father of Mrs. Douglas was a former pastor of the Hickory church.

From the first scene to the last, the picture is crammed full of real, live action. No red-blooded American could
afford to miss this show. The production is made up of historical scenes, dramatic incidents in the lives of leaders
in American development, and a touching story of patriotism. The picture is said to be too big, too great to
attempt a complete description of it. Every dramatic critic who has seen the picture has been lavish in praising it.
One of the New York reviewers said: “No word thus far spoken, no picture thus far shown contains so much
inspiration to Americans.” Don’t miss this attraction. Admission, two bits.

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

Miss Archie Sloan underwent a serious operation at the Mercy General Hospital in Charlotte recently. She has rallied well and
expects to be able to return home soon. Messrs. Lampton and Burke have returned from Kentucky and expect to push
the work on their contract on the road from here to Charlotte.

People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N.C.

A friendship that makes the least noise is very often the most useful; for which reason I should prefer a
prudent friend to a zealous one.—Addison.

Electrik Maid BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
