DAVIDSON — $90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidsonian, March 15, 1923

ELABORATE PREPARATIONS
(Continued from page 1)

Voluntary this year, and only those who are really interested have entered. As a result, the competition will be unusually keen. An exhibition of some real oratory will be the order of the morning. In the afternoon, the first of the two baseball games with Oakridge will be played. Last year, the Wildcats could do no better than split the series with the strong Prep School opponents. As usual, they will put out a good team this year, and two good games are certain. Come out, and watch Buck’s proteges in their first two contests.

The Dramatic Club comes into the limelight Friday evening, at which time three one-act plays will be presented. The plays were written by such renowned dramatists as E. T. Woolfolk, W. F. Galloway, and H. K. Russell. They will include two comedies and one tragedy.

Saturday morning, the old gridiron will come back into its own for once more this year. Two games will be played off in the class football championship series. Ambulances will be in attendance, and immediate attention given to those injured in these games so that they won't have to miss the remainder of Saturday’s jubilee.

Saturday night is the time appointed for the Big Act of the entire program, the Cabaret. The Gym is the place, and 8:30 P.M. is the time. According to all the advance dope, this will be a gorgeous spectacle, splendiferous in its entirety, and unsurpassed by anything of a like nature ever attempted at a Junior speaking—wow! Twelve acts have been completed, containing music galore, witty dialogue, and the real stuff when it comes to dancing. (There may be some slow-motion toe-dancing—who knows?) Make your plans accordingly therefore, and—don’t—miss—the—Cabaret.

The complete program is as follows:
Thursday night, Picture Show—Adam's Rib.
Friday morning, Junior Speeches.
Friday afternoon, Baseball—Oakridge vs. Davidson.
Friday evening, Plays.
Saturday morning, Two Class Football Games.
Saturday afternoon, Baseball—Oakridge vs. Davidson.
Saturday after the game, Fraternity Pink Tea.
Saturday evening, Cabaret at Gym.
Sunday evening, Special “Y” Service.
Monday night, Picture Show.

ROBIN HOOD BOOKED FOR CHARLOTTE SOON

The comic opera actor has been quiet for this long time, for as was said by the late Reginald DeKoven a few weeks before his demise. “The public seems willing to have the female form replace the art form, and a well-turned ankle seems more desired than a well-turned or witty line.” That DeKoven set the whole English-speaking world ‘agoing when he wrote ‘Robin Hood,’ is one of the outstanding axioms of musical and dramatic parlance. The reason is that dear old Robin, with its clever tale of the twelfth century and its tunes that just naturally won't die, furnishes, as the press agent well said, ‘musical thrills and scenic beauty unsurpassed’.”

“Robin Hood” is more than an opera—it’s an institution, and a part of a liberal education, and as long as it continues to be performed, it will remain a cherished piece of musical history.

PUBLIC SALES:
We have purchased 122,000 pairs of U.S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 5½ to 12, which was the entire surplus stock of one of the largest U.S. Government shoe contractors. This shoe is guaranteed one hundred percent solid leather, color dark tan, bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof. The actual value of this shoe is $6.00. Owing to this tremendous buy, we can offer the same to the public at $2.95. Send correct size. Pay postman on delivery or send money order. If shoes are not as represented, we will cheerfully refund your money promptly upon request.

National Bay State Shoe Company
296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N.Y.

Henderson Auto Electric Company
GAS, OILS, BATTERIES, TIRES, TUBES, ACCESSORIES, EXPERT REPAIRS
Davidson, N.C.

LOOK beyond the purchase price! Tire costs figured at the end of service will show Silvertowns the most economical. Best in the Long Run.

TOWN NEWS

HANK THE HIPPO DOES THE ALMOST IMPOSSIBLE

Probably anticipating the untimely end of Young, the Human Fly, who fell to his death the other day, Hippo the Houck has begun spring training. The principal feature of the first day work-out was the demonstrating of the Darwin theory by the ascent of the bare walls of the placid front which makes up the face of West. The immediate occasion of such a perilous work-out was said to have been the betting by casual onlookers as to Hippo’s inability to perform the seemingly impossible, coupled with his burning desire to show himself as the logical successor of Young.

Nonchalantly casting a cigarette butt upon that part of nature which he was soon to part company with, Hippo began his ascent toward his self-set goal. Higher and higher he mounted, obtaining holds upon the barely obtainable, sliding over the apparently unslidable, and finally reaching the seemingly unreachable, amid the cheers of the once skeptics but now confirmed Hippo enthusiasts.

The “As-you-like-it” Club will be entertained by Mrs. O. J. Theis on Friday afternoon. This club meets every two weeks and is composed of the wives of the younger members of the Davidson faculty together with other young ladies of the town.

Miss Montgomery, the county health nurse, made a short talk before the Civic League Tuesday afternoon, and gave some suggestions for the work that is needed here in Davidson. This work is to follow the examinations which were conducted recently by Dr. Spruill in the white and colored schools.

Mrs. C. H. Hamilton visited her daughter at the State College for Women in Greensboro last week.

Dr. Melton Clark will be the guest of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin during the next week.

The girls' basketball team of the local high school won a close contest from Concord High last week.As Americans are Americans, a worthy presentation of it will attract a host to enjoy it. It is May Valentine's production that is coming, the identical cast, one and all that has played it the entire past year in more than two hundred cities including the best theaters of Louisville, Indianapolis, Omaha, Chicago, Washington, Baltimore, New York, Philadelphia, Detroit, and Cincinnati. It will be at the Auditorium, Charlotte, N. C., Tuesday, March 20th, 1923.

‘Ask a Girl for Speaking’

DR. LANE LECTURES
Continued from Page 1

Doctor Lane made very clear the inconsistencies that have appeared in the attitude of the Allies toward the Turk since 1914. The failure on the part of France and Britain to act together has allowed the complete defeat of the Grecian armies. Turkey demands recognition as a nation, and India is making the same claim. Turkey, however, is the first Asiatic nation that has taken definite steps toward bringing about this recognition. This recognition will not come soon, Doctor Lane said, but, just as in the case of Japan, he believes that there will some day arise a new Turkey that will deserve and receive it.

‘Education is a capital to a poor man and an interest to a rich man.’ —Horace Mann.

The score being 26 to 20. The boys won their laurels by defeating Salisbury 26 to 22 on the latter's court last Wednesday.

Mrs. Brady gave a delightful entertainment for the young members of her Sunday School class on Tuesday of last week. The six little girls with the six young men they had invited played from seven-thirty to nine o'clock, and then enjoyed the delicious refreshments the hostess had prepared for them. The groups consisted of Daisy and John Barry Caldwell, Helen and Charles DeVane, Sarah Thompson, Billy Hunter, Susie Jackson, Fred Fleagle, Mary Foys and John Withers, John D. McConnell and Eliza Thompson.

Dr. Lingle filled the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church of Durham last Sunday, in the absence of the pastor who is on a tour of Palestine. Dr. Lingle preached at both the morning and night services and delivered splendid sermons.

The Health Committee is to have charge of the window display at Goodrum’s store during this week. Mrs. Withers is the chairman of this committee.

The Book Lover's Club met with Mrs. W. R. Grey, Friday afternoon and the program for the coming year was discussed.

Miss Mary Black has been quite ill for several days and her large circle of friends join in wishing her a speedy recovery.

Dr. C. M. Richards and Dr. J. M. McConnell were visitors in Winston-Salem last Monday on college business.

The Thelemite Book Club held its April meeting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin, Wednesday last. Major T. J. Hearn read a paper on “West Point as a character builder.” Refreshments were served at the conclusion.

‘Ask a Girl for Speaking’

All praise is due to Houck for his hair-raising performance and it is hoped that his ability in this line will be duly and fully recognized by those higher up in the art to which he has shown himself so adept.

ANNUAL PUBLISHERS LIST OF MANY ADVERTISERS

The 1928 issue of the Quips and Cranks is progressing nicely. In all the departments the men are working hard to make this the best issue ever put out at Davidson. It is desired that all the material be turned in as soon as possible. The Annual will go to press on the fifteenth of April. The business manager urges that all students pay their fees right away. By doing this the finances of the publication will be put in good shape.

Below is a list of foreign advertisers: Malloy and Co., (Annual Covers); Southern Life and Trust Co., Greensboro, N. C.; Hollingsworth Candies, Augusta, Ga.; Coca Cola Co.; Cotterel and Leonard, (Cap and Gown Co.); General Electric Co.; Eastman Business College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y.; Union Theological Seminary; and White Studio.

The following is a list of local advertisers: Charlotte National Bank, Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.; Andrews Music Store; Central Hotel, and the Central Cafeteria. Charlotte will be worked thoroughly and a list of our advertisers will be published in next week’s Davidson. Note these advertisers carefully and patronize them. Help those who help Davidson.

‘Ask a Girl for Speaking’

Mrs. C. R. Harding was called to Charlotte last week by the illness of her grandson, Robert Jr.

Dr. J. P. Monroe was in town Tuesday, having returned from a recent trip to Cuba and Panama.

Mrs. James S. Shumaker was taken back to Doctor Long’s Sanitarium in Statesville last Tuesday for treatment.

Miss Kalista Hood arrives Friday from St. Mary’s School in Raleigh, for a spring vacation.

Men’s U. S. Army Munson-last Shoes at $2.95
Sizes 5½ to 12

Never again will you be able to buy these shoes at such a low price. We were lucky in finding a manufacturer who was overstocked with them and needed ready cash, so we bought them at almost one-half of the regular price. This shoe is made over the U. S. Army Munson last, with extra heavy stitching; special grained chrome brown leather used throughout. An ideal shoe for workmen, farmers, icemen, postmen, carpenters, and motormen, who are obliged to be on their feet all day. Send correct size. Pay Postman $2.95 on delivery, or send us a money order. If you are not satisfied with these shoes after you examine them, we will promptly refund your money.

U. S. DISTRIBUTING & SALES COMPANY
20-26 West 22nd St.
NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

Monarch Coffee
None Better at Any Price

Full Line of Heavy and Fancy GROCERIES
H. M. Johnson

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE
People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Electrik Maid BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N. C.