THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER

WILLIAM JOSEPH MARTIN
President of Davidson College
A.B., M.A. (Davidson), M.D., Ph.D. (Johns Hopkins), L.L.D. (University of Virginia)

the Wildcats the ball on the 35-yard line. He earned honors upon himself on the cinder path with his high school “marathons.” During Ted's sophomore year, he made all the varsity gridiron trips with the exception of one. He played in three varsity games. He was also called upon to go with the gang in three of the scrub expeditions. His training then did wonders for him and made him a valuable element for Monk to use this year. Ted played third base his freshman year and although he did not get in any of the games, he got in shape to make the varsity last year. One must see him in action to understand the art that he uses in his plays. Methinks I heard more than one fair damsel remark that Ted was the prettiest boy at Davidson College, but that was before the V.P.I. game this year. He was tendered with a fractured nose and it altered a bit the beautiful countenance of his glowing face, but it is about to recover now and he will once more be that pretty boy so often spoken of. In playing last week in the Furman game, his nose was hurt again and had to be reset, but Ted doesn’t think it will hinder him from doing his best in any of the other games. Ted shows an interest in the social life of the campus for quite often we see him strolling about the campus with his, or with some other fair lady. Ted, we are proud of you. You are adding laurels to your crown and bringing honor upon old Davidson.

PURPLE HURRICANE (Continued from page 1)
yards to the 10-yard line. McCurry grabbed the pigskin and turned to race up the field but he failed to dodge ’Lias Faison, who downed him in his tracks. It was a beautiful piece of work and the crowd gave the Wildcats a big ovation. The Hurricane was forced to punt and Herlong booted the ball to midfield but a fifteen-yard penalty gave the Wildcats the ball on the 35-yard line.

J. M. C. COVINGTON
J. M. C. Covington, whom we all know as “Ted,” comes to us from that well-known little town of Laurinburg, in the country so named for the Scotch Highlanders, of whom Ted is a noble descendant. He entered with the class of ’25, and is filling a very valuable place in it. He is a halfback on our varsity team although he does not play in that position at all times. We may call him our speed king on the team. Ted was not a candidate for football his freshman year, probably due to the fact that he had only one year on a high school team before he entered here. His high school did not have a team until he was a senior. But he was a star for four years with the ball and the basket and also with the old pill on the diamond. Perhaps he has acquired running skills from his high school days.

The Wildcats gained 5 yards and then Laird attempted a drop kick which Furman recovered on their 10-yard line. A Furman punt hit Fields, and Burnette recovered on the 44-yard line. A short punt by Waters gave the Wildcats the ball on the 35-yard line. Three off-tackle drives netted 9 yards and Laird punted to the Furman 5-yard mark. Then it was that the Wildcats came within an ace of a touchdown. Carter called for a pass from behind the goal line and Black, running to intercept the ball, missed the oval by inches, for what would have been a sure touchdown.

Covington returned Waters’ back kick 20 yards to the 33-yard line. On the first play, Hendrix lost 5 yards around right end. Covington gained back the ground when he slid through tackle for 5 yards. A lob pass to Laird netted 9 yards and Black made it first down with a yard to spare. Four plays gained 9 yards and the ball went over on the 18-yard line as the half closed.

The second half was all Furman’s. Carter blocked Laird’s punt early in the third period and raced five yards across the line for the Hurricane’s second touchdown. Then two touchdowns and a goal from the field by Carter with three successful touchdowns made the final score 30-0.

Tilghman kicked off to Covington to open the half. The Wildcats were unable to gain and Laird punted 45 yards out of bounds on Furman’s 32-yard line. Furman was forced to kick and Waters booted to Covington who fumbled, Carter recovering on Davidson's 35-yard line. Waters and Poteat smashed through for two first downs but the thin Red line stiffened and the Hurricane was checked for three downs. Carter's attempted placement goal was a dismal failure and the ball went over to the Wildcats on the 15-yard line. Then after the Baptists had stopped two plays, Carter blocked Laird’s punt and ran for a touchdown. He kicked the goal. Score: Furman 13, Davidson 0. Tilghman kicked to Covington who returned 12 yards to the 25-yard line. Laird’s punt was hurried and went out of bounds on Furman’s 32-yard line.Bounds on the 45-yard line. Poteat swept around end twice for 15 yards, placing the ball on the 14-yard line. Four line bucks made it first down by six inches and Poteat went over right tackle for the third touchdown. Carter kicked goal. Score: Furman 20, Davidson 0. Tilghman kicked 25 yards to Black who returned 10 to the 40-yard line. Three plays lost 5 yards and Laird punted to Furman’s 32-yard line. After an interchange of punts, Dobson intercepted a pass on the 37-yard line at the close of the quarter. Poteat, Carter, and Herlong circled end for three first downs, placing the ball on the 25-yard line.

After two plays, Poteat went around end for a touchdown. Carter kicked goal. Score: Furman 27, Davidson 0. Several substitutions were made by both teams. Covington returned Tilghman’s kickoff 25 yards to the 40-yard line. Covington shot through tackle for 18 yards and Black made it first down over center. Simpson intercepted a pass in midfield and gained 36 yards on three plays. On the five-yard line, the Wildcats held and Carter kicked a placement from the field for the final three points. Coleman kicked to Covington who returned to the 20-yard line. After an interchange of punts, the Wildcats tried an aerial attack. A pass to Covington failed but on the next play Sappenfield shot a short pass to Buck who ran 30 yards. A pass failed and the game ended with the ball in Davidson’s possession on Furman’s 30-yard line. The line-up and summary follows:

Furman (30) Position Davidson (0)
Left End Howard Summers
Right End Carter (C) Faison (C)
Quarter Back McGinity Shepherd
Left Half Herlong Hunt
Poteat Covington
Full Back Wilkins McCombs

Score by periods:
Furman 6 0 14 10—30
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0

Touchdowns: Poteat (3), Carter. Points after touchdown: Carter (3), (kicks from placement) goal from field: Carter. Substitutions: Davidson—Hendrix for McCombs, Black for Shepherd, Lindamood for Summers, Cox for Vance, Hodgin for Lindamood, Sappenfield for Hendrix, McCombs for Hunt, Hunt for McCombs, Hendrix for Sappenfield, Sappenfield for Hendrix, Hodgin for Lindamood, Lindamood for Laird, Buck for Hunt, Long for Cox, Lewis for Long. Furman—Blackwell for Lanford, McGee for McCurry, Lanford for Blackwell, Simpson for Poteat, Orr for Dobson, McElveen for Howard, Blackwell for Lanford, Brown for Burnett, Harrell for Herlong, Meeks for Waters.

GLEE CLUB OPENS SEASON WITH P

(Continued from page 1)

Assailed a repertoire of popular selections and scored a hit to the extent that they played several encores. As a whole, the performance was well received and appreciated by the Huntersville folk. The only criticism made by a number was the lack of pep, a quality which comes to a club only after long training and much practice. The audience numbered between 150 and 200 people. After paying expenses out of their share, the Glee Club will apply the remaining proceeds on the big trip of the year, a week's tour of the two Carolinas and Georgia, the farthest point to be reached being Atlanta. The Atlanta trip will probably occur about the first of December. In the meantime, the club is taking short trips to the towns near Davidson where the expenses are small, and is trying to get enough ahead to cover expenses should the southern trip prove a financial failure. If the southern trip is a success financially, the club is considering a trip during the Christmas holidays through southern Georgia and Florida. This trip is as yet in the infancy of conjecture and cannot be decided until later. The club has prospered in quality under the able direction of Ted Jones who has secured Mrs. Baker of Charlotte to train the club.

YELLOW CAPS

The following freshmen have been campused and sentenced to wear the yellow cap during the past week: For the period ending October 30th, Long, C. A.; for the period ending November 2nd, Treverton, W. M.; for the period ending November 6th, McQueen, Malcolm. These freshmen are not allowed to go to picture shows during the period for which they are campused.

DUOFOLD STANDARDS IN LOWER PRICED PENS

Masters of Pendom make all Parkers as well as the famous Duofold. The same classic shapeliness—The same writing balance. New Parker D. Q.—Students’ Special, $3.00.

When you buy a Parker Pen of any model, at any price, you are getting a standard that never existed before the Parker Duofold was created; and which exists today only in the Parker make. Parker’s lower-priced black pens are like Parker Duofold in everything save the size and point. Yet even their points are tipped with NATIVE Tasmanian Iridium and polished to the smoothness of a costly jewel bearing. Only the Parker crafts-guild is trained to make Duofold quality, and this same skill produces all other Parker Pens too. If you want the Over-size Pen with lacquer-red barrel, flashing black tips and 25-year point—get Parker Duofold, $7. (Duofold Jr., or Lady Duofold, $5.) If you want Duofold’s classic lines and writing balance in a low-priced black pen of good size, get the new Parker D. Q. specially made for students, $3. Any nearby pen counter can supply you. But be sure the pen is stamped “Geo. S. Parker” if you want the new-day improvements.

The New Parker D.Q. has a large ring to link to a notebook or pocket-clip. Cap reinforced with metal girdle.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, WIS.
Manufacturers also of Parker “Lucky Lock” Pencils

Parker D.Q. Banded Cap—Large Ring or Clip—Duofold Standards

FOR SALE BY
White Drug Company
W. S. Henderson