THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

The Wildcat Tribe
Ralph E. (Sook) Boggs

“Sook” hailed from Spartanburg when he first came to Davidson, but since then his parental abode has been changed to Birmingham, Ala. Boggs’ high school record in athletics is exceptionally good. He attended Hastock Preparatory School at Spartanburg, S. C. He was an all-state guard in basketball and his team was a runner-up in the South Carolina championship series of 1922. In football, he was a star backfield man and one of the mainstays of the Hastock team.

In his first year at Davidson, he took part in both the above-named sports and played on both the Freshman basketball and football teams. He was a guard on the Soph’s championship team of last year. Later on, he won a permanent berth on the Wildcat quintet. His work at guard was second only to that of “Pat” Crawford. “Sook” was a close contender for a varsity position in football last year. His weight and drive made him a dangerous opponent on offense and defense.

YELLOW FRESH CAPS

The report of the Court of Control shows that the following freshmen have committed offenses serious enough to be campussed and to wear the brilliant Yellow cap for the period ending October the 23rd: Williams, C. W., Haney, M. D., Moore, M. B., Hammock, E. B.; for the period ending October the 30th; McArthur, J. M.

UPPERCLASSMEN ADVISE NEW FRESHMAN GROUPS

The Freshman Class Work, which was planned in detail last Spring, and which has been in operation now for about a month, has proved a decided success. Credit for this new phase of student activity is due to some of the members of last year’s Court of Control and all members of the present one. Realizing the need that the Freshman class be divided into smaller groups in order to obtain more personal knowledge of a Freshman and to aid him in his campus activities, the present plan was put in operation. The Freshman class is now divided into five groups, each division consisting of from forty to fifty students. These various groups meet every Monday night in Shearer Hall, a Junior or Senior being in charge. It is the duty of the leader of each group to act as a personal adviser to each man, and it is his special duty to obtain the grades of every one. Those who are failing are seen by the leader, the cause is found out and any help and advice needed is given.

On each Monday, some special speaker from the Student Body gives a talk to different groups. Watt McCain led the song service, and Wallace Purdy was at his post as pianist. During the opening exercises, Perrin Hudgins led in prayer. The speaker was introduced by Vic Brown, of the program committee. The attendance was slightly lower than the average, due to the number of students who were not on the hill during the weekend. Come out and give the “Y” your support, fellows. It is your organization.

The city was overcast with black smoke and the sun shone blood red upon the terrible catastrophe. Within one hundred yards, on all except the seaward side, great fires were raging and with amazing speed were approaching. People were grabbing blankets or some article from their ruined buildings and fleeing. One of the reasons the fire started so very quickly was that the small coke ovens of clay, which the Japs use for cooking, were all aglow preparing their noon meal and soon set the building afire after the quaking. With a Danish friend, I moved toward the sea, which was the only direction we could go.

Wildcat Freshmen Trounce P.C. Colts Two Touchdowns
Hudgins and McConnell Score on South Carolinians

Coach Rawson’s Wildkittens invaded South Carolina last Thursday and added another scalp to their growing collection, defeating the P. C. freshmen 12 to 0 in a good exhibition of football at Rock Hill. The Davidson yearlings took on new life with this and were playing nicely until a P. C. back intercepted a pass and got by all but Davidson’s safety in a pretty run. Davidson held for downs inside the twenty-yard line, the ball going over. The Davidson freshies were marching toward another counter, Sapp gaining consistently on end runs and the Sapp-Hudgins pass combination working well, when the game ended.

PANDEINIC OFFICERS FOR NEW TERM INSTALLED

At the last meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society, officers for the next term were installed. The new officers are: D. B. Walthall, president; C. M. S. McIlwaine, vice-president; A. H. Hollingsworth, secretary; W. M. Cox, first critic; H. B. Price, second critic, and L. P. Cox, sergeant-at-arms. After the inaugural address by the new president, the society had its regular program. The subject for debate was, “Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan should be condemned by all right-thinking Americans.” Glenn Eddington and A. P. Hudgins successfully upheld the affirmative.

J. W. (Doc) DeArmon

James Wirt DeArmon entered Davidson with the class of '24. “Doc,” as he is known, has since proven himself worthy to be called a “Wildcat.” Especially in football has the old do-or-die spirit of the Davidson man been evident. Preliminary training as an athlete was received on the strong Charlotte high team. He made his “C” for two years in football and also in basketball. After graduating, he determined to go on down the alphabet and has accordingly secured a “D.” During his first two years with the Red and Black, he played with the scrubs, always improving. When the real chance came last year in the hard-fought V. P. I. game, “Doc” was there with the goods. He starred in that game and by the end of the season, he had won a berth in the “D” Club. This year, his last at Davidson, DeArmon has a regular berth on the varsity. He is a strong cog in the Red and Black machine.

Harry H. (Poots) Lindamood

Harry Lindamood came to Davidson with an athletic reputation stretching back through high school. At his hometown of Columbus, Miss., he won letters in the two years he attended school there. He entered McCallie as a Junior and there built up a reputation that gave him All South Prep Tackle. Varsity work in prep football, basketball, track, and swimming left his heart in bad condition and in his Freshman year at Davidson, he was barred from football. He turned his energies to the mat and in his Sophomore year, he is Captain of the wrestling team. With improvement in the condition of his heart, he started the year on the gridiron, and his playing at tackle has rated him the first string. “Poots” has a physique that few men possess; physical development has not left a muscle in his body flabby. When unable to play football last year, his room was a gymnasium in itself. Weights that, if dropped on the floor, sounded like a ton of bricks, were always present.wearing the | escaped with their lives. his playthings. With the rest of this year and two other ones ahead of him, “Poots” | classmen during the period of their punish- Aid a bit of rescue work during this period. won't fail to shine.

TWO DEBATES COMPOSE PHI SOCIETY PROGRAM

The meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society last Thursday evening was marked with pep and enthusiasm. After the general routine of business, the subject, Resolved, That the Ku Klux Klan should be condemned by all right-thinking Americans, was upheld on the affirmative by W. H. Fitts and W. G. Houck, and by B. G. Brown and A. B. Williford on the negative. The judges awarded the decision to the negative side.

Following this was a spirited, extemporaneous debate, Resolved, That throwing water out of the dormitories should be stopped by the students. C. C. McMillan maintained that this drenching practice should be abolished by the students, while R. G. White contended that they should take no action toward stopping it. The judges decided that water throwing was legal.

H. M. White delivered a well-thought-out oration on Ruts. Professor Dendy, a visitor to the society, spoke for a few moments. Different groups on various phases of campus life. These talks are proving very successful in combating problems in every man's life. The Freshmen are taking interest in this work, and if the Student Body backs influence for good on the campus. Group leaders are: Vic Brown, Lee McJohn, P. Parrish.

JUNIOR EUMENEANS HOLD FIRST MEETING

Last Tuesday night the Junior Eumenean Literary Society held a meeting with its first regular program. J. A. Bouvier presided in the absence of the president. The subject for the debate was, Resolved: That the Towner-Sterling act should be passed by Congress. The affirmative, represented by H. L. Shelby and W. S. Woods, defeated J. O. Craig and G. McMillan of the negative. The men did well considering that it was the first debate of the year. L. Williams delivered an excellent oration on Lorensie's Address to the Romans. This oration was presented with a great deal of fire and enthusiasm and was well received by those present in the hall. H. Austin was the reviewer for the evening.

METROPHILIANS HAVE INTERESTING PROGRAM

The Metropolitan Literary Society met on Oct. 16th. The program of the society was well prepared. The query for the regular debate was, Resolved: That the Ku Klux Klan is a menace to society. A. C. Ray and I. T. Pullen debated on the affirmative while Thompson and Parker upheld the negative. The debaters were well prepared and delivered pointed speeches. The query for the extemporaneous debate was, Resolved: That the Yellow Cap should be ignored by upperclassmen during the period of their punishment. W. A. Patterson debated on the affirmative, and J. M. Carr upheld the negative. The decision of the judges was for the negative.

MR. TOM GLASGOW SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)

seamen were in charge. “Those things in which we are surest of ourselves, those things which we consider the strongest links in our lives, are oftentimes the links that break. Just when we are sure that we can resist temptations, the temptation comes and we give in. When we first give in to little things, it is easy to give in to the bigger and more weighty temptations.

“Leaders in college life have often gone to ruin because they were too sure of themselves and gave in to little temptations, feeling sure that they would be able to measure up when the big tests of life came to them. When the crowd is going right, and you're with the crowd, it is an easy thing to keep on the right road. But when the crowd goes wrong it requires backbone to stand up for what you believe to be right. You have to have the courage to stand alone if necessary.”

Davidson’s touchdowns came as the result of an exceptional pass from Sapp to Hudgins and by a P. C. fumble recovered by Joe McConnell and carried forty yards to touchdown for the last score. After a good game by Sapp, one of the Davidson backs fumbled and P. C. advanced the ball for several first downs before the Davidson Wildkittens tightened down and held, the ball going over on downs. Sapp punted well into midfield where the play continued until Sapp uncorked a long pass to Hudgins and put the ball in striking distance. Davidson made their first touchdown.

Professor Dendy was present at the meeting and gave a splendid talk to the society. He stressed the need of literary society work as one of the necessary campus activities. He stressed the point that each man should develop his talent along literary lines in order that he may be better equipped to fill his place in society.

Dr. and Mrs. Porter Vinson, of Rochester, Minn., who have been spending several weeks in Davidson with Dr. Vinson’s mother, Mrs. W. D. Vinson, returned to their home last Saturday.

I bent my body low, as though I were hitting a football line for a needed touchdown, and with two almost superhuman spurts I cleared the small opening as the falling front grazed my back. It was, as it were, hypnotized; my escape had been so close that I was not sure that I was alive. Davidson won the toss and elected to receive, bringing buildings brought me to my full senses.

“Just at that moment I looked up through the dust and saw the building on the opposite side of the street crumbling and falling toward me. I ran back in the direction I had just come and barely managed to get out of the way before that building fell. All of this had happened in the flash of a few seconds, but it seemed ages at that time.

“I steadied myself as best I could, for the earth was still shaking as though a million tons of dynamite were exploding nearby every fraction of a second. The movement suddenly changed up and down, then round and round, from side to side as though I were on a ship in an Indian Ocean monsoon. I am usually pretty steady on my feet on account of athletic training and boxing, but I was positively unable to stand there, and if it had not been such a serious matter, it would have been funny to see me sprawling, then scrambling to my feet again. I took a tip then from the Japs about me and ‘stayed put’ on all fours, and partly crawling went along the street as fast as possible for there were still parts of the buildings all around on the narrow street which might get me the next moment.

“While scrambling along, I was swayed from one side of the street to the other and found a tremendous crowd jammed together, the entire body swaying with each movement. It was a pathetic group—some were weeping, many were bloody and badly bruised all having barely escaped with their lives.

“There was a slight lull, and some of us then ran back to the building where I had almost been smashed, helped some people, then my camera instinct urged me to get on top and crawl under the ruins to see how badly my Graflex camera, which I had been forced to abandon in my dash for safety, had been squashed. When I did get under, I saw my camera and Mah Jong set still intact in the only spot in the whole building where they would have been spared. I grabbed them and was out in a flash.

“Just outside in a building close by I saw a family trying to get out a baby who was crying. I snapped a picture of the group and put my camera down to help these people, and just as I did so, another quake came and the building tumbled. Those inside were no more able to call for help.

“I bandaged up some wounds and helped here and there but noticed then that the people all about were hastening away. I looked around and in every direction I saw great fires being blown and fanned by a very strong wind, and every few seconds I could hear boom! boom! as a big oil tank exploded.

BELK BROS. CO. Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS

Schloss, Styleplus, and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS

New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook union suits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c Men’s medium weight union suits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c 48c, 85c, $1.00

After going for 25 yards, I reached the open square. There, the entire body swaying with each movement, I found a tremendous crowd jammed together. It was a pathetic group—some were weeping, many were bloody and badly bruised, all having barely escaped with their lives.