THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1923 | Town News | Davidson, wore the conventional dress suit. Four flower girls, Elizabeth Shewmake,
Julia Elizabeth Hobbs, and Goudeloch Erwin, Palmer Henderson and Frank Brown of Margaret Douglass preceeded the ring- bearer, Janet Hobbs.
White chrysanthemums were borne by both bridesmaids and flower girls. Mr. Harry Caldwell, best man, were the last of the
attendants to arrive in their places. A very large number of local and out-of-town friends attended the wedding of Miss
Mildred Hobbs and Mr. James Munroe Blue, which was solemnized at the Davidson Presbyterian church Thursday evening, October 28th. Doctor
Richards, pastor of the church, performed the ceremony. Five candlesticks, each bearing seven candles, were arranged against a background of
southern pines and white chrysanthemums upon and about the church rostrum. The service was begun with an organ selection, To
a Wild Rose, played by Miss Hattie Thompson of Davidson. Following this, Mrs. Willis Johnston of Mooresville sang a solo,
Call Me Thine Own. A duet, At Dawning, by Misses Florence Kerley and Francis McCall of Charlotte was next given.
Then the electric lights were turned off leaving the building flooded with the soft rays of the candles. As the
wedding march was played, the bridesmaids and groomsmen walked slowly down the aisles to their positions. Two of the bridesmaids,
Misses Jean Blue of Raleigh and Ruth Hoyle of Cornelius, wore dresses of sunset taffeta while those of the others,
Misses Margaret Adams and Dorothy Finleyson of Davidson, were of green taffeta. The groomsmen, Messrs. Wm. Johnson of Mooresville, Hobbs
of Mount Holly, Lake Davidson, wore the conventional dress suit. Miss Hobbs, a cousin of the bride, a student at
Mitchell College, wore an orchid taffeta dress. The bride, who was gowned in a white duchess satin wedding frock trimmed
with rose white lace, was accompanied to the altar by her brother, Mr. J. D. Hobbs. At the altar, Mr.
Blue met his bride. After Doctor Richards had explained the sacredness of woman and the holy matrimony, he pronounced the
two man and wife and gave them his blessing. Mr. and Mrs. Blue left immediately for a trip of a
few days, but declined to reveal their plans to anyone. College students supplied the traditional shower of rice when the
newlyweds went out to a waiting auto. Both Mr. and Mrs. Blue are well-known in Davidson and will probably make
their home here. Mr. Blue is now employed as a traveling salesman. Until last November, he was superintendent of the
two local cotton mills. Mr. C. H. Hamilton and family and Miss Adele Arbuckle motored to Montreat Saturday for a
weekend visit. Friends of Miss Mamie Withers will be glad to hear that she is at home after several weeks
in the Statesville Sanatorium. Miss Mary C. Graham, dean of Peace Institute at Raleigh, was a visitor in the home
of Prof. and Mrs. Archibald Currie. Miss Sarah Lingle spent several days last week in Winston-Salem, visiting friends at Salem
College. Misses Maxwell and Stokes left Wednesday for their home in Meadville, Penn., after spending several weeks in the home
of Captain and Mrs. Ellis. Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum was the hostess to the Young Matrons’ Club Friday afternoon at 4:00
o'clock. After a delightful afternoon, refreshments were served, consisting of a salad course with nut bread. Interesting letters have been
received from McDowell Richards and Misses Richards and Black, who are now at Oxford, England. Mr. Richards, the son of
Dr. C. A. Richards, a graduate of Davidson, won the Rhodes Scholarship in 1922. Misses Mary and Christine Young spent
the weekend in Concord with Mrs. J. B. Allison. Miss Sudie Brady and Mr. Douglas Brown were married at high
noon Saturday. They will make their home in Greensboro. Mrs. A. Currie entertained The Thelemites Friday afternoon. Mrs. Claudius Dockery
left Friday for New York, where she and Mr. Dockery will make their home. Mrs. Walter Henderson entertained Mrs. James
Blue and daughter, of Raleigh, for dinner Friday. The Boy Scout football team defeated the Cornelius team Friday afternoon. The
Quademarglers Club met Friday night in Doctor Martin’s office. Dr. J. M. McConnell spoke on Westminster Palace and its traditions.
Mrs. Williams entertained guests Thursday night at a dinner in honor of Mr. Williams’ birthday. Dr. and Mrs. T. W.
Lingle spent the weekend in Blowing Rock. Miss Evelyn Graham, who has been the guest of Mrs. A. T. Graham
for six weeks, returned to her home in New York on Friday. The Booklovers’ Club will meet with Mrs. Hamilton,
Friday afternoon. Mrs. C. M. Richards will present a paper on Greek architecture. The Civic Club gave a reception in
honor of the teachers of the Davidson Graded School in the club room last Tuesday evening.Lera Hobbs, maid of honor,
and Wil- | the | The debonair mistresses for to secke. And foremost in the gallant companye Ther was one
Carr, And tagging at his side was also seen One Guiton, also secking for his queen, a goode fellaw he;
These noble sires did go to seck their fate, Within the late; And luna waned upon the western shore, When
they did leave their ladies’ at the door, Then they beganne to wend their lonely way Across the cities. ‘Twas
when they at their abode did arrive And sought to gain an entrance to their hive. The town, near break
of day, house was dark: there was no noise within And Guiton quoth, “We should have sooner been.” Then said
Sir Carr, “I have in truth no doubt But that purposedly we were locked out.” Their faces were marked with
deep distress As down the walk they marched on their quest Of some good place on which to lay their
heads, Because they could not reach their native beddes. Young man take this as parting good advice: Let not younge
ladies your footsteps entyce, Lest sometyme by the sad unlucky plight, You find yourself upon the ground all night.” Chaucer
lettes, RED AND BLACK SWEATERS ARE CHOSEN BY SENIORS The inquest has been held over the death. They weighed them
in the balance and found them wanting. They wanted a mark of distinction that was useful and democratic as well,
so they put on their thinking caps instead of derbies, and, when they found what they wanted, they donned their
sweaters instead. Seniors have wanted, There is no room for doubt that they have what they were looking for. They
discarded the derby that made a man feel as if he fought to have a monocle also. They have laid
aside the cane that gave one a feeling of infirmity in spite of himself, and adopted, instead, a sweater that
gives comfort and the feeling of being well-dressed as well as that of being patriotic to the good old class.
Practically every man has his sweater already. Lee McLean had charge of the distributing end and has put every man’s
sweater in his hands on time and without a complaint. The lines of the sweaters are stylish to a fine
point. The color is the height of patriotism, simplicity and correctness. The finely woven back and sleeves of black and
the front with just the right tone and proportion of red and black give the right effect without a single
hint of loudness. EUMENEANS INSTALL NEW OFFICERS FOR NEXT YEAR Last Thursday evening the Eumenean Literary Society was called to
order and after the roll call the scripture lesson was read by the president, prayer by P. B. Freeland. The
house was then led in singing. The following men were elected members of the society: Carrol, Laws, J. D., Lynch,
Rayburn. W. A. McClain presented the current topics of the world. J. H. Patton followed with a presentation of the
current topics on the hill. A discussion concerning the cheering at the games was next in order. The Eumeneans were
urged to take the lead in seeing at future games. The new officers for the fall term were inaugurated and
President R. R. Jones made his address on the gains of the members of the society, stressing the fact that
work was needed to develop the public speaker. SIGMA UPSILON ENJOY STORY AND CRITICISM The Blue Pencil Chapter of the
Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held its regular monthly meeting with Dr. E. F. Shewmake on last Wednesday night. The program
consisted of an original short story by R. R. Jones and a paper on John Drinkwater, the English author, by
Dr. E. J. Erwin, national president of the fraternity. Doctor Erwin discussed Drinkwater’s recent play, particularly Abraham Lincoln. The work
for the ensuing term was outlined by the fraternity. This is to consist of intensive study of modern writers. The
members of the fraternity greatly enjoyed the hospitality of Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake. CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS
LINE Leaves Charlotte A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M. Charlotte 7:30 10:30 5:30 Huntersville 8:10 11:10 6:10 Cornelius 8:25 11:25 6:25 Davidson
8:30 11:30 6:30 Mooresville 8:45 11:45 6:45 Troutman 9:15 12:15 7:15 Statesville 9:30 12:30 7:30 Leaves Statesville A.M. A.M. P.M.
P.M. Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30 Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45 Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10 Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00
5:25 Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30 Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45 Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30 For Further Information See
Driver The Young Men’s Store SUITS Y. M. and sport models, serges and worsteds, blue, brown, pinstripes, plaids and checks.
OVERCOATS Plaids, browns and grey mixtures, plain and belt models. TOP COATS Whipcords and Gaberdines with belts and yokes. We
carry a complete stock of gents furnishings, hats, leather goods, and trunks. Lingle Clothing Company 203 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE,
N. C. SODA CIGARS PARKER FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH Lynch’s Pharmacy,
Inc. 201 North Tryon St.
