WE WANT WATTS

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. y 7

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

No. 24

COLLEGIATE EDITORS GUESTS OF QUEENS BLUES IN SIXTH SEMI-ANNUAL CONVENTION

Elkins Elected Head of N. C. Collegiate Press Association. TRINITY IS NEXT HOST

Association Offers $50.00 Prize For Best Short Story in State.

Thirty-one delegates, representing practically every college publication in the state, attended the sixth semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate
Press Association held at Queens College last week, April 19-21. From the opening address of welcome by Dr. W. H.
Frazer, President of Queens College, on Thursday evening to the closing session on Saturday morning the convention was filled with
a live program of addresses, entertainments, and business sessions.

Probably the most outstanding action taken by the association during the convention was the decision to publish an anthology, a
compilation of the best North Carolina short stories. Any bona fide student of any college in the state will be
allowed to submit stories for the anthology and to compete for the $50.00 prize to be awarded to the writer
of the best short story. The stories will be selected absolutely on merit irrespective of school by a board of
judges outside the state.

R. R. Jones, of Davidson College, was appointed editor of the anthology, the object of which is to further the
movement for better literary creations in the colleges of the state. Copies of the compilation will be placed in the
libraries of every college in the United States as well as in the leading city libraries in the country.

In the final business session Saturday morning L. D. Elkins of Davidson was elected president of the association for the
ensuing year. J. R. Killian of Trinity was elected first vice-president and George Allen of Trinity second vice-president; Sarah Thomas
of Queens, secretary; and Ruth Hadley of Greensboro College, treasurer.

Among other matters, the association went on record as advocating college credit for work done on college publications. It was
also decided that at each convention the association would select the best paper and magazine in the state and in
addition the paper and magazine showing the most improvement during the year.

Thursday evening, following the address of welcome by Dr. Frazer and a speech on “The Purpose of the North Carolina
Colle-

(Continued on page 4)

FAISON CHOSEN NEXT YEAR'S ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION HEAD

Hendrix and Laird Elected to Help Shape Athletic Destinies in 1924.

Results of the recent athletic association election show that Elias S. Faison, scrappy Wildcat end, will fill the chair of
president for the coming year. Faison won over Warren Cox, the other nominee, by a majority of 53 votes. Jim
Hendrix, of the rising junior class was elected vice-president over Boggs by a slight majority, while Flake Laird won out
over Lindamood for the secretaryship.

The athletic council placed before the association names of all letter men of the

(Continued on Page 2)

NEW WATTS AND SOUTH WING CHAMBERS WILL BE ERECTED

Plans Provide For Occupancy by Opening of Fall Term.

Plans for the rebuilding of Watts dormitory and the new Chambers hall are practically completed. During the coming summer only
the south wing of the new Chambers building will be built, but on the site where Watts dormitory burned in
the Spring a completely equipped, modern dormitory will be constructed.

According to the present plans, the new Watts will be of exactly the same style as the two new dormitories,
East and West, except that it will be about fourteen feet shorter. The building cannot be made the same length
as the others on account of the lack of space. The new Watts will be fireproof, constructed of reinforced concrete
and tile. It will not have lavatories in each room as the burned building had, but instead, there will be
a washroom on each floor, all showers being in the basement. It will be attached to the new central heating
system.

The building contract has been let to Blythe & Isenhour Company of Charlotte and work on the foundation has been
begun. As yet very little of the material has been hauled to the site. The contract for heating fixtures is
in the hands of the L. L. Barr Co. of Greenville, S. C. The new dormitory will be four stories
high and will accommodate approximately one hundred students. It is expected that before the month is out material will be
secured and a large force will be at work on the building.

For a week before work on the foundation of Watts was begun men were at work on the ruins of
the old building. In short time they transformed the spot from black-

(Continued on Page 5)

PRESIDENT MARTIN DELIVERS ADDRESS SUNDAY EVENING

Local “Exec” Speaks in Shearer Hall to Y. M. C. A. Assemblage

Prerequisites for Coming of Kingdom of Heaven Pointed Out to Large Audience.

“In looking around for speakers, we often forget that right among us are some of the most noted speakers in
the South,” said Hugh Smith in introducing Dr. W. J. Martin to speak at the “Y” service last Sunday night.
Doctor Martin replied that he felt as though he had been introduced to his own family.

Doctor Martin first gave a resume of his experience with Davidson. He was born on the edge of this campus—on
the edge, because the campus was then enclosed by a high board fence, and he, as a child, was not
allowed to enter. As a young man he went to Davidson, and after taking some graduate work, returned to teach.
He served in several capacities, especially at the head of the Chemical department until 1912, when he became president of
Davidson. Hugh Smith pointed out in his introductory that

(Continued on Page 6)

WILDCAT RUNNERS DEFEATED BY CLEMSON SPEED DEMONS

Calhoun and Streibich Break Records in High Jump and Pole Vault.

GRACY LEADS WILDCATS

Red and Black Stronger in Field Events While Tigers Excel on Track.

The Clemson College track team romped on the Wildcats last Friday to the tune of 78½ to 33½. In spite
of the score, the Davidson lads made a very creditable showing. The Tigers have, undoubtedly, one of the best, if
not the best team in the South, as was shown by the reputation they made down in Georgia where they
doubled the University of Georgia’s score, and took a trifle under half the points scored in the triple meet with
Georgia and North Carolina.The weather conditions were ideal, and the time in every event was exceptionally fast. On the whole,
the meet was the best that has been held on Sprunt Field in recent years. Calhoun and Streibich were the
heroes of the day, each breaking a college record. Calhoun broke the high jump record of 5 feet 11 inches
established by Jim McQueen, ’20, by clearing the bar at 5 feet 11¾ inches. Jim was on hand rooting for
his Alma Mater and was the first to congratulate Calhoun on his record-breaking jump. The state meet should see Calhoun
clearing 6 feet or better if he keeps on improving as in the past. Streibich, too, comes in for the
laurels. (Continued on Page 5)

REJUVENATED WILD STREAK WITH FOUR NET TEAM RUNS WILD WITH CLEMSON IN FIRST JOURNEY

Bradley, Price, and Staley Open Season in Fine Style.

Winning both the singles and doubles matches in decisive order, the Davidson tennis team defeated the representatives of Clemson College
on the Davidson courts last Friday, while their brother Wildcats were fighting stubbornly against the track aggregation of the South
Carolina institution. Bradley, Price, and Staley were playing the old reliable type of tennis that wins; and win they did,
snatching a victory from out the hands of their opponents before they were well aware of the game in progress.
No better weather conditions could have been wished for and a fine crowd turned out to witness the games. The
sidelines of the several courts were crowded with a mass of students, all answering the call of the contest where
the honor of the Red and Black was at stake. Probably the greatest interest was shown in the singles match
between Bradley and Gray. Each of these two men are tennis champions in their respective states, Gray in South Carolina
and Bradley in the old North state. Bradley is also the captain of the Davidson team and the only letterman
left over from last year’s tennis squad. The match was fast and well played, Gray seeming to be a bit
handicapped by the closeness of the wire back-stop which interfered several times with his sweeping overhand serve or return. Bradley
was perfectly at home on the court, knowing instinctively where to place his serve and his peculiar return which seemed
to keep the Clemson man guessing from start to finish. Notwithstanding this, the Davidson victory was in no wise easily
won. In the first set, Gray had Bradley to a 5-3 score before Bradley (Continued on Page 6)

DELIGHTFUL THREE-ACT PLAY OFFERED BY QUEENS’ PLAYERS

Misses Meme Hampton and Cornelia Wearne Star in “The Romancers.”

Second Appearance of Fair Entertainers on Campus Pronounced Great Success.

The Queens Players showed an audience of Davidson students the way to a successful romance when they presented The Romancers
here last Tuesday night. The play was presented to a full house and was greatly enjoyed and appreciated by everyone
in the audience. The play was in three acts, the scenes of which were laid at the same spot—the rendezvous
of two fond lovers and their quarreling parents. The plot of the production was the romance of two young people
combined with the continued quarrels of their parents. The parents lived on adjoining estates and had decided that the marriage
of their children was a much to be desired match, consequently they laid a deep scheme to direct Cupid’s darts
in the desired direction. They simulated a heated quarrel (Continued on Page 8)

CAT ON WINNING STREAK WITH FOUR STRAIGHT GAMES

Hunter Hurls First No-Hit Game of Collegiate Season.

COVINGTON IN LIMELIGHT

Wofford Twice; Elon and V. P. I. Make Up Quartet of Victories.

Playing a bang-up brand of baseball, featured by brilliant pitching and heavy hitting, Buck Currie’s diamond artists hit their real
stride and ended their home stand by romping away with four decisive victories, prior to road trips through the Carolinas
and Virginia. After whipping the Wofford Terriers 4-1, and 7-0, Captain Pat's scrappers walked away with Elon and V. P.
I. by counts of 9-4 and 8-4. Neely Hunter twirled his way to fame in the second Wofford contest when
he let the Terriers down without a scratch and shut them out, 7-0, winning his own game in the third
chukker by poling a homer over the left centerfield fence with one man on. The contest was the first no-hit
affair of the 1923 collegiate season and the homer the first which has been knocked over Sprunt Field fence since
1911. Joushee and Sorrells turned in easy victories against Wofford and Elon and Hunter won his second game of the
week from V. P. I. in a free-hitting contest. Ted Covington, whose flashy and dependable work in the field has
prevented many a score, went on a batting spree in the Elon game and cracked out a triple, double, and
two singles in four attempts. Ted hit in the other games and was a leader in the Wildcat bombardment.

FIRST WOFFORD GAME

Davidson's winning streak began on last Wednesday afternoon when by hitting in the pinches and by brilliant infield work on
defense, Wofford was defeated by a score of 4 to 1. The Wildcats got away to an early lead when
Richards, first man at bat for the Red and Black, popped up a fly over the pitcher's head and no
one seemed to want it. S. Alford advanced Richards to second on a sacrifice. A wild throw from Lindsay left
Crawford safe on first, with Richards perched on the third sack. F. Alford drove a long fly to the outfield
and as it settled into Robert’s glove Richards sprinted for home, crossing the rubber for the first score of the
game. A few scattered hits by both teams were ineffective until in the fourth inning Wof- (Continued on Page 6)

DAVIDSON FORENSIC ARTISTS OPPOSE METHODISTS TO-NIGHT

Cox, Elkins, and Hillhouse to Uphold Red and Black Against Trinity Invaders.

Davidson’s intercollegiate debating team, composed of Liston Elkins, Albert Hillhouse, and Warren Cox, with Joe Baldwin as alternate, will meet
three representatives from Trinity on the evening of Friday, April 27, in Shearer Hall. This is the first time that
Davidson has ever met Trinity on the debating platform and the contest bids fair to be one that will be
remembered. The subject for the debate is: Resolved, That the issuance of tax-exempt securities should be forbidden by an amendment
to (Continued on Page 3)

FOUR IN A ROW—NOT SO WORSE
