4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: LISTON D. ELKINS
Business Manager: REGINALD L. PRICE

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINF - Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD - Associate Editor
A. C. WILDMAN - Associate Editor
W. F. GALL - Athletic Editor
W. M. COX - Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON - Alumni Editor

Business Staff
J. R. BRIGGS - Advertising
K. S. McALPIN - Subscription
R. W. OELAND - Advertising
W. H. CROMWELL - Bookkeeper
P. J. STORY - Subscription
A. M. HURD - Service Department
J. M. GARRISON - Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WATT McCAIN, Manager
PITTS, REGAN, STC WHITE, M. WILLIAMS, J. M. MONK, C.F. O'CONNOR, F. P.

EDITORIAL

START SOMETHING

You know people who are merely existing, just living and letting live, with a good will toward everything and everyone, but with no particular aim in life. They're the people who make the census figures so large!

You also know people who are neck deep in some big enterprise that they calculate will startle the world, or fill their pocketbooks, or do some lasting good in the world. They're the people that inspired the little phrase “few and far between.”

Why is it so many people are afraid to open up their soul and strength in some particular line of endeavor? Why is it so many people are content to move along in a rut created by their forefathers centuries ago? Why is such a large percentage of the human race hammering away, year after year, at the old every-day, monotonous, fruitless task, when ahead of them lies a broad road, even if it be rough in spots, which leads to success?

It's because they have been humbugged into believing there is a worthy admonition in the old warning, “Don’t start something you can’t stop.” The old saying ought to be suppressed. Many people have failed to make headway in life because of a constant fear of starting something that could not be stopped.

A business journal says: “We have all heard political speakers who had the power and were great thinkers, but in speaking they would fail to make a point, preferring to side-step a bit, evidently fearful they might start something they couldn’t stop. We have all heard preachers who would make powerful statements of the truth and immediately follow this with a sort of an apology that would leave the congregation in doubt and no more enlightened than they were before. For fear of starting something the pastor was shorn of his power. We have seen business men who have not had confidence enough in themselves to push their business, for fear they would start something they could not finish.”

Learn to start things! Start something big, something worthwhile, and the confidence you gained in the starting will help you carry on. As for stopping—things that are started right don’t need stopping! Martin Luther started things, fearlessly, with never a thought for stoppage. The heroes of the Revolution started things while onlookers wailed in their predictions of the stopping point. The modern man must set something going, start something new, open up new channels, or do the old thing in a newer or a better way. If the old-fashioned way is the best, do not discard it—push it as never before, but push it with the spirit of a new start.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

THE HOUR OF PRAYER

Every morning at eight-thirty the bell rings for chapel. In the last few years chapel has come to be considered a necessary evil by the majority of the students, instead of a religious exercise as it really is. We go to chapel because we are compelled to, we enter smoking, we sit through the service reading our papers, even the singing is half-hearted. If we have any complaint to make of existing conditions we do it in chapel in a boisterous way.

What would the good people of our Southland think of a church college without a single religious service from Sunday to Sunday? When we stop to think it over is not chapel held for the purpose of worshipping the Lord? And is it not right that we should have some religious service throughout the week? We all profess to be Christians, and yet we are in our attitude to our weekly prayer service guilty of gross irreverence. Considering that chapel is in reality a prayer service and attendance upon this service is an act of worship, should we not enter Shearer Hall every morning in a reverent and worshipful attitude? And should not all those connected with the college, try to make their attendance as regular as possible?

Irri.

JUST A WORD PLEASE

We say we have a wonderful College Spirit and we have. Last Saturday, while our team was giving their best to beat Wake Forest, it was seen that a great number of the student body did not care to register much spirit or pep. Those who did yell did it in fine shape but those who sat, as though in death, did that in fine shape. How about it men, especially a big number of you fresh, and a big majority of upper classmen, are you going to leave the cheering to just a few men? Also it is wondered why the man, who is supposed to be the most important cheer leader, does not change a few of his ways and actions and attend more strictly to his duty. We would like to suggest some new life in the cheer leading ranks. Dick Littlejohn, Piggy Martin, Shorty Howell, John Selser and Pinky Johnson should be able to make things hum. How about it fellows, let’s talk these men into taking places as assistants.

The Peanut Parcher is conducted by college wits, this week.

A DIFFERENT MR. PEP.

PROOFS FOR PICTURES FOR ANNUAL CAUSING TROUBLE

“Now Bill, I want you to tell me, honestly, which one of these proofs you think is the best? Just which one do you think I should put in the annual, and which one I will send Mary?”

“Oh! I think this one is no doubt the best picture for the annual, but as to the one you should send Mary, I will let you decide because I don’t know her, therefore I don’t know just which one she would like.”

“Say Bill, honestly, I want you to tell me, if you think this proof looks like me?”

“Well if you want the truth, that picture sure does flatter you.”

“You know, I think it is bum, but let me tell you the reason, you see I had been on class and I did not have time to brush my hair, and my suit was in the pressing club, so I had to borrow another fellow’s coat, so don’t you think I had better have some more made?”

This conversation was

The members of the Class of '24, in keeping with an ancient custom of wearing some distinctive garb to distinguish between the members of the Senior Class and the other three classes, are wearing a novel Red and Black sweater. At last a class has chosen a practical garment, throwing the ornamental derby into the discard.

MODERN METHODS

The following article clipped from the editorial page of the New Student, an intercollegiate fortnightly paper, may seem a bit radical in its content. It will furnish food for serious meditation, however.

“So shines a good deed in a naughty world! It's a grand and glorious feeling to be able to cease continually crabbing our poor old dead educational systems and be able to record a hopeful sign of their coming to life.

“Word has come to us that Princeton has abolished the old system of compulsory classroom attendance. Juniors and Seniors at Rockford College have unlimited cuts. Truly this is a step toward something free and individual in education.

“These innovations imply an alert group of students interested enough in what is going on in the classroom, to come there without being forced to do so. Let us hope that, like European Students who have long been accustomed to such freedom, American Students will form the discussion habit which in the older Universities is as much a part of education as are lectures.”a result of the proofs from White’s Studio arriving last Friday. A representative will be here until Tuesday, taking orders for the pictures. This is a big part of the annual, and by this work having such a headway so early, it means that the members of the Annual Staff are working hard and are going to do their best to make this the best annual that Davidson College has ever had.

PROMINENT MEN ON CAMPUS INDORSE NEW HONOR STORE

(Continued from page 1)

The working of the honor system at Davidson, for it is, though a small undertaking, a concrete example of this system. As its success will redound to the credit of Davidson College, just so will a failure here show up the college in the worst possible way.”

Id Fewell: “This system has been used at Washington and Lee for a number of years with great success and should be even more successful here at Davidson. It supplies a real need in furnishing ‘eats’ and other articles at ‘cash and carry’ prices which can be obtained at any time during the day or night most conveniently. If everybody will get behind the Davidson Honor Store and patronize it in preference to all other sandwich stands, etc., it will grow, and will become a source of pride to every member of the student body.”

J. I. Smith: “The Honor Store is a mighty good thing, I think. It is the supreme test for our Honor system at Davidson and I’m confident it is going to be an invaluable aid in keeping the honor system on a high plane. In time it will prove to be one of Davidson's most valuable assets and will help wonderfully to uphold ‘Old Davidson’s’ reputation as the premier school of its kind in the South.”

W. Z. Bradford: “It’s a darned good thing. The co-operation of the entire student body will make it one of the high watermarks in the rise of the morale of the student body. I think it is a great step forward in the development of the honor system and student government.”

Ik. M. Regen: “The Honor Store is the cornerstone in the foundation of the Davidson honor system. If it stands, our honor stands; if it fails, then the honor of every Davidson man must pay the penalty of the scorn of our fellowmen.”

J. H. Davis: “The Honor Store in principle is a good thing. It has worked at other colleges; it can work here. As an experiment it is precarious, but also a good test of the student body. It is in itself a good thing, both as a practical experiment and as a test or a reminder of what we stand for on the campus. It is then up to every student to prove that it will work. It is for us, but more certainly by us.”

Hiram Sharpe: “It will succeed because the students can go there to get their ‘eats’ without trouble, and those who have been selling those things can put their time on their studies. We have an ideal place here for the store; our honor system has succeeded in all other ways, why not in this? A man is on his honor in the store just as he is on an examination.”

Angus McBryde says: “It is a fine thing, and will work. It has worked at other places, so there is no reason why it should not work here, for we have just as honest men as any college in the United States.”

Joe Walker says: “I think it is a fine idea, and it will work here if it will work anywhere, for we have as fine a type of men as there is anywhere. With wise management it should make a big success, and grow to be a big business in the future. It will reflect either credit or discredit on the college as it succeeds or fails.”

I. C. Thames: “The store is the real test of the honor system; it will show whether or not it is as good as we say it is. Heretofore the honor system has been somewhat of a subconscious matter; it has worked more or less in secret, but the store will show just what kind of men we have here. It will succeed because of the high standards set by the honor system.”

E. E. Boushee says: “I think that it is a fine thing, and I feel sure that it will work. It is working well now, and there have been no losses so far. It is a great convenience for the students, and will make us feel the responsibility of keeping it going.”

BIG PEP MEETING HELD LAST FRIDAY NIGHT

With the Wake Forest game getting nearer every day the students up to Thursday had not obtained a special to the game. On Friday night a big pep meeting was held at the gym. Everybody was anxious to go. After the pep meeting in the gym a big bonfire was lit in the center of Old Chambers. The wood was gathered by the Freshmen who had searched hither and thither all day, getting fuel. Allison and his cohorts then held forth. It seemed as if everyone was being evoked into a frenzy. After the cheers the Freshmen formed in line and the time-honored custom of snake dancing to the professors’ homes was on.

Bull-ettes

A Burning Topic

The gravest question before the students of Davidson—‘How many tickets did you flunk?”

Specializing

‘Bevo” Davis tells the story of a man who attended school at Chicago last summer, and who hurried to classes every morning when the bell rang, tying his tie with one hand and rolling a cigarette with the other. Not so bad for a summer student, eh! Nor is it such a bad story for “Bevo.”

Put Up or Shut Up

We heard a fellow bet the other day, in spite of his facial expression and handsome, winsome smile, that he was not near as big a fool as he looked to me. His bet was covered immediately, needless to say. Now, who wins the bet? The question is, “Is man a bigger fool than he looks to be, or does he look like a bigger fool than he really is?” Fellow friends, don’t bet anything on the side. If you have done so you'd better call off the bet, bribe the referee or park yourself under a piledriver. If you bet one way you lose; if you bet the other way you can’t win; if you bet either way you're a fish!

Rube Curtis reports that he will not attend the circus this year. The last one he witnessed was a disgusting thing. Rube says everything went wrong. The cigarette fiend went on a strike and refused to drive another coffin tack in his mouth on the ground that his health was being impaired. The strong man refused to perform because he had been made to weigh too much for his last week's salary. The mermaid fish-girl walked out because the water in the tank was too deep for him to risk his life in, and the queen of May got sore because the manager wouldn’t loan him a dime with which to buy a plug of tobacco.

GREATEST SHOW ON EARTH HERE SOON

World’s Ten Times Biggest Circus—Ringling Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Headed This Way

The world’s one big circus—Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Combined—draws nearer and on its hundred cars will come “ten thousand wonders” to exhibit in Charlotte, Tuesday, October 30th. World toured and world conquering this truly Greatest Show on Earth is now fully a third larger than it was when it last visited this locality. In addition to the many innovations offered then, the present season’s program numbers ten more trained wild-animal displays—making thirty in all—and the most superb trained horse acts that Europe has yet produced. The wild-animal and equine displays of the past were introduced merely that the Ringling Brothers might judge of their popularity. So enthusiastically were these numbers received that the famous showmen immediately arranged for the purchase of the world’s finest acts of this kind. An entire equine circus was bought outright and brought to this country last winter. And while the Ringling Brothers & Barnum & Bailey agents were securing this and the trained tiger, polar bear, lion, leopard and jaguar groups, they had orders to engage the foremost men and women performers of the European capitals. And these stars from city and jungle are all to be seen with this wonder circus of 1923. More than 700 men and women, embracing the world’s foremost arenic stars take part. These artists include the very biggest acts ranging from extensive companies of foreign performers to the amazing English family of Nelsons—positively one family consisting of father, mother, six daughters and one son. And this group of world-famous acrobats but illustrates the remarkable scope of the human side of this great circus. There are 100 clowns. Aside from the ferocious beasts, the program includes forty trained elephants. There are five companies of trained seals, many dogs, bears, monkeys, pigs and pigeons. Added for good measure is the mammoth menagerie of more than 1,000 animals. It is the biggest circus program the world has ever seen, given under the largest tent.