’ it meant a hundred years ago, but, in spirit, it means much more. This additional meaning cannot be conveyed by additional words—the underscores fill the bill. ACTIVITY is one of the greatest passages in Webster's book, and it merits daily reading. ACTIVITY is a state or quality. It is a positive, real condition. A slothful person cannot believe himself active, or make the next-door neighbor believe him active. It is an actual condition which must exist. It is a quality one must really possess. Real ACTIVITY is vigorous. There must be vibration, tension, determination. Many a man has worn himself into a nervous collapse by vigorous activity and strain, it is true, but many more have stagnated because of inactivity. The man who trains himself to leap from the starting line at the crack of the pistol learns to anticipate the start with a tingle of life. He lives with his hopes at the point of tension and is prepared to get off with a start that will carry him well into the race, while the man of indolence is leaving his mark. ACTIVITY is essential. In an age characterized by individual initiative and competitive enterprise, one’s ACTIVITY must necessarily be taxed to the limit. Some people acquire wealth and happiness without the expense of work and effort, it is true, but few and extraordinary they are. The laws of nature are made for the ordinary, normal man, and if we scorn ACTIVITY because some particular person has prospered without it, we must first assure ourselves that we were created with special endowments and extraordinary faculties, under the godmothership of Lady Luck. Even then the clock may strike the twelfth hour when our attainment is at its highest pitch, and the beautiful Queen of the Ball will have to fly back to her little attic home among the cinders, and be content with her normal Cinderella self. Godmothers fail even in the storybooks, and surer is their failure in realistic life. Combine an honest effort, a sincere desire, and intense ACTIVITY (and the greatest of these is ACTIVITY)—there you have a formula that beats godmothers all hollow. Vigorous ACTIVITY means attainment. Half-hearted ACTIVITY is worse than inertness; it is discouraging in its nature and demoralizing in its effect. Push, and push hard, or move out of the way—someone else wants to push awhile.

A DREAM COME TRUE

The solons of Davidson have roused themselves to answer a need which has been pounding at their doors since the first structure was erected on the Davidson campus. They have shaken off their slumber. They are accepting the old maxim which places “preventative” and “cure” in the balance for a weighing, and which awards the blue ribbon to “prevention.” Davidson is to be organized for protection against fire, and to systematize the preventative work, a chief fire marshal, and assistants, are appointed to the work. The students of the college are the firemen. The proper equipment has been secured. The authorities of the college have answered the challenge presented to them. Will the students do their part?

A PLACE FOR WORK

Are our literary societies decadent? Shall they, with their traditions and erstwhile power on the campus, become mere memories, like rooming in Chambers and hazing? These are questions which every student interested in public speaking and literary work should ask himself. At one time the societies were the most powerful organizations on the hill, and there has always been a lively interest shown in them until recently, but during the last three years the interest in them has been on a steady decline. Shall we allow this lack of interest to continue? Can we, in honor, permit the traditions and spirit of the societies, so carefully fostered by our predecessors, to pass away from our life on the campus? Aside from the questions of honor and the perpetuating of the customs of our fathers, there is the undeniable fact that literary society work, when entered into in the proper spirit, is an invaluable aid to us after we go out in the world. The ability to speak well in public is a thing which every one of us will have need of in our careers, and right here in college is the best possible place to learn. Shall we neglect this opportunity, offered to us in the literary societies? The logical and practical way for us to restore the interest in the societies is for the old members to get down and work hard for their societies, secure all possible new members, and, most important of all, make the meetings interesting. There can be no interest in a pepless program. Let’s work hard for our societies, and soon there will be no need to solicit members; they will seek admission. If we are able to achieve this state of affairs, then the societies will revert to their former position of interest and importance among the college organizations.

BOOK LISTS

The literary minds seem to be turned more than ever to formulating lists of “Books Every American Should Read,” “Foremost Books of All Times,” etc. Pick up a late issue of a current magazine and skim its pages.Among the articles will be some such formulation. Men and women in all branches of life are making their lists, individually and as groups. College professors are listing the worn volumes of their libraries. But what is it all about? Surely it is not for mere comparison. It is to bring before the minds of the people literary tastes. In this age of promiscuous devouring, that quantity might not kill out quality, these books are presented. And yet are we, college men, availing ourselves of our library, using these lists as a guide? The excuse eternal comes—time! But we should make reading a vital part of our living and take time to live! We can find time for other things which we consider important. But after all, far greater than the actual fragment of knowledge which we collect is the ability to learn and above that the desire for it. There is nothing that will keep the mind keener than the “good book habit.” Pick for yourself a creditable list and formulate a system by which you may follow it. Don't just stop killing time—fill it usefully!

INDIVIDUAL PHOTOS MADE FOR YEARBOOK

Mr. O. May, a representative of the White Studio of New York City, was in Davidson from Monday morning until Thursday afternoon, taking pictures for Quips and Cranks. Mr. May is an expert photographer of that studio, being interested particularly in theatrical work. Individual pictures were taken of members of the Senior and Junior classes. Group pictures of the varsity and freshman football squads were also taken. Mr. May will return in the Spring to complete the photographic work.

At the 1923 convention of Omicron Delta Kappa, which was held at Richmond University, the fraternity voted to accept the invitation of Zeta Circle, which is located at Centre College, to make that place the scene of their fifth national convention. This bit of good news is indeed fortunate, for it means that a representative group of college leaders will gather at Centre, a thing that will not only benefit the local chapter a great deal, but will be a fine thing for the school at large. Prof. James H. Hewlett, of the department of English, was delegate from the local chapter to the convention.

Omicron Delta Kappa is the only national organization that bases its existence on the recognition of campus leadership other than scholarship. Its ranks are made up of men who have placed themselves at the head of various branches of collegiate activity, and in the schools wherein chapters are located it covers a field entirely its own. The various chapters are located as follows:
Alpha—Washington and Lee Univ.
Beta—Johns Hopkins Univ.
Gamma—University of Pittsburgh.
Delta—Davidson College.
Epsilon—University of Richmond.
Zeta—Centre College.
Eta—College of William and Mary.
Theta—University of Akron.

In order that the student body in general may better understand the nature of Omicron Delta Kappa, we copy from the official publication, The Circle, a section of an editorial that throws some light on the works of the association. The requisites for membership in Omicron Delta Kappa are, first and foremost, unquestionable character, and second, attainment of special distinction in at least one of the following phases of collegiate activity: Scholarship or marked proficiency in one or more collegiate departments; athletics, both local and inter-collegiate; social leadership, including conspicuous service to the institution; literary societies and inter-collegiate contests; and publications. Since these heads cover every form of campus activity, anyone who is a leader is eligible; and, since the membership is limited to three percent of the male matriculates in the institution, a man to obtain membership must be exceedingly prominent upon the campus in at least one, and as it generally turns out, in two or more phases of college activities. The Omicron Delta Kappa key, therefore, signifies that its owner is a man of character, possesses and has demonstrated qualifications of leadership, and has constantly worked during his undergraduate life for the best interests of his Alma Mater; and unlike the emblem of a local organization, the significance of the key is understood and appreciated off its own campus to an ever-increasing extent.—Centre College Cento.

The Best Cosmetics

Many years ago an old New England lady wrote out the following list of toilet articles and advised all women to acquire and use them:
First—Self-knowledge, a mirror showing the form in the most perfect light.
Second—Innocence, a white paint beautiful but easily soiled and requiring continual care to preserve its luster.
Third—Modesty, a rouge giving a delightful bloom to the cheeks.
Fourth—Contentment, an infallible beautifier.
Fifth—Truth, a salve rendering the lips soft and delicious.
Sixth—Gentleness, a cordial imparting a sweetness to the voice.
Seventh—Good humor, a universal beautifier.—Boston Transcript.

Through the efforts of Prof. Lynn Gosnell, of the History Department of Furman University, students of that institution, and the citizens of Greenville will be brought face to face this year with some of the problems that confront the world today. A club called the International Relations Club has been organized on the campus to study such problems, and from time to time the Club will bring noted speakers from the national organizations of similar clubs to Greenville to discuss these problems before the Furman chapter, and all others who are interested.

The contest at Rock Hill was quite fiery. Here’s an old one—But a word to the wise: “Some people sit and think; others just sit.” It hasn’t been so long since Davidson was truly “full o’ mud.” The advertisers are not spending their hard-earned shekels merely to support this publication. Make it a point to see that they lose nothing by it. The advertisers make it possible for us to have a paper once a week. Show your appreciation.

’Tis sad but true that some of the flower of Southern manhood come but for a four-years’ loaf. It is understood that the fence around the new athletic field is cyclone-proof—until a cyclone hits it. The railroad removed the platform at the station in order to make those who ride feel above those who stare. The further we go with this nonsense the worse it gets. But, anyway, be thankful that we didn’t use a whole column. Bailey Groome pulls a lot of fish stories (including write-ups)—but you can’t please everybody.

Who Knows?
—That the first inter-collegiate football games that a Davidson team took part in were played in the fall of 1898 in Charlotte against the U. of N. C. and the U. of S. C. and that the score with Carolina was 12-0 in favor of them, and with South Carolina the game was a 0-0 tie.
—When the honor system was first established.
—That at one time in Davidson history every student who entered was required to sign a pledge that he would not take part in hazing of any kind.
—That in Davidson’s early days the students worked their way through school by devoting part of their time to working on a farm owned by the school.
—That Davidson once had a preparatory department in connection with its four-year college course.
—That the first commencement exercise was held on the campus under a grove of trees not far from where Shearer Hall now stands.

EUMENEANS TAKE IN FIFTEEN FRESHMEN

When the Eumenean society opened her doors last Thursday evening to hold the first meeting of the year 1923-24, a group of new men entered with those old members who came back from last year. The initiation was held first, and then after a warm welcome to the new men, they, together with the old members, took part in the interesting program which followed. The following list gives the names of the Freshmen who entered:
Alexander, A. W.
Anderson, T. F.
Austin, H. M.
Taylor, W. F.
Winn, L. R.
Williams, C. W.
DeArmond, J. T.
Craig, J. O.
Ogden, W. C.
Woods, W. S.
Shelby, H. L.
Ernest, J. F.
Anderson, C. R.
Love, A. J.
Branch, H.

Among the speakers whom it was planned to bring here are Senator Underwood, of Alabama; Congressman McSwain and ex-Governor Ansel will also speak at one or more open meetings. With such a widespread interest in international affairs abroad in the city, it was felt on the university campus that the citizens of Greenville would appreciate an opportunity to hear authoritative discussions of these problems. For this reason the club was formed.—Furman Hornet.