5 _ tisers in the matter of distributing circulars, tacking signs, and the like. Given the opportunity to win the
trust and admiration of his fellow stu-

4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923

The department is under the direction of Allen Hurd and will be known as the Davidsonian Service Department. Advertisers are
urged to take this means of further enhancing the value of their ads in the Davidsonian.

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Davidsonian, Open Forum
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief: LISTON D. ELKINS
Business Manager: REGINALD L. PRICE

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE - Managing Editor
J. A. LAKE - Assistant Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD - Associate Editor
J. B. PRICE - Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN - Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY - Athletic Editor
W. M. COX - Associate Editor
W. M. HESTON - Peanut Parcher Editor
O. J. ALLISON - Alumni Editor

Business Staff
J. R. BRIGGS - Advertising
K. S. McALPIN - Subscription
R. W. Oeland - Advertising
W. H. CROMWELL - Bookkeeper
ERS LOR - Subscription
A. M. HURD - Service Department
M. GARRISON - Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN, Manager
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager
MONK, C. F. ROGERS, G. D. SELSER, J. M. STOR, WHITE, H. M. WILLIAMS, J. M. WALTHALL, D. B., WHARTON,
D. B. PATTON, J. H., Sec’y-T ALLISON, O. J. BEALL, McP. S. BOWIE, A. Y.

EDITORIAL

FOR THE HONOR OF OLD DAVIDSON

The highest compliment ever paid to the Honor System of Davidson, since the time when the faculty and students of
the college entrusted the government of the student body and the regulation of campus problems with the students themselves, is
the installation of the Honor Store.

The self-trust, and the faith that every student has manifested in his fellow student, bespeaks the character of the student
body of the college.

“The purest treasure mortal times afford
Is spotless reputation; that away,
Men are but gilded loam or painted clay.”

Davidson has taken a step which is vital to the life of the honor system. It will raise that system
to a more exalted position in the eyes of student and alumnus alike, or it will mean the degradation of
all that we hold sacred in our system of self-trust. The reputation of the college is at stake; if it
is lost, the college is lost, for what would Davidson be without that “purest treasure.” The character of every man
on the campus is on trial. Every man who has a feeling of respect for himself should pride himself on
being given the opportunity to win the trust and admiration of his fellow students, and to show the integrity that
is his. The Honor Store should be a strengthening power in building up and preserving the honor system. A temptation
overcome is a point gained in the higher standards of life. A wrong deed, whether it be successful or not,
causes a secret uneasiness, and conscience, “the inevitable doom of the guilty,” will approach us and secretly convict us of
dishonesty. This is the only law to govern the patrons of the Honor Store. It will be a splendid feeling
of pride that will fill the student body of Davidson if the proposed store is operated to advantage. It should
be a source of happiness, not only to the admirers of Davidson throughout the South, but to the students themselves.
Wordsworth defines the happy man as he “Who comprehends his trust, and to the same keeps faithful, with a singleness
of aim.”

Coach Younger presented a fighting outfit in Cornelius last week, when the followers of Elon’s Maroon and Gold were defeated
in the first game of the season. The team is light, and the line is an inexperienced one, but little
men, though new at the art, can do the biggest things in life.

FIFTEEN FOR DAVIDSON!

It is the part of every upper-classman on the hill to enter into the spirit of the game, and contribute
his share to cheering. It is true that the Freshmen are being trained in nightly pep meetings, and that they
will be required to attend the games in a body under the leadership of the cheer leaders. This, however, does
not exempt any member of the student body from his duty. The combined efforts of the entire body will not
measure up to the duty we owe the team, and if there is a forbearance on the part of any
men in the student body it will mean that the Wildcat teams are fighting a game alone, without the proper
support from the men they represent.

Five hundred and seventy-one men have registered as followers of the Red and Black. Five hundred and seventy-one men are
duty-bound to participate in the sports, when the honor of Davidson is at stake. Your place is on the team,
or on the sidelines, and if your lot falls in the latter class, your official duty is cheering! Fight ’em
Wildcats, five hundred and seventy-one strong!

The house committees, appointed by the president of the student body, are for convenience in adjusting problems which might arise
in connection with dormitory life. Refer to last week’s issue of the Davidsonian, find the man who is representing your
hall, and make him work for your comfort. He will be glad to help you.

REAL SERVICE

A recent addition to the Business Department of the Davidsonian has been the Service Department. The purpose of this department
is to supply the value of Davidsonian advertising by giving service to advertisers. This department has already demonstrated its worth
in more ways than one.

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

ADS—Signposts along the way of life are always helpful if they are appropriately placed. The same can be said of
placards on the Davidson campus. However, let’s not commercialize the grandeur of the campus by destroying its natural beauty for
individual or universal business purposes. Just take a look from the Eu Hall up toward the Armory—the faded brown on
the telephone posts is made uglier in contrast with the striking bright colors smeared on the white post cards. Phi
Hall had several signs on its front, giving it the appearance of some small country store. The tall, stately trees
look down in disgust upon man for thus attempting to sign them up as the means for commercial gain. And—the
quaint old fountain of ’37 is almost lost amidst the commercial ads of ’23. Ads do not add anything to
telephone posts, and certainly, you can’t decorate a building of the early fifties with the sign painting of today. Tacks
and nails are injurious to the trees, for it affords an opening—a break in the bark—for pests, bugs, and other
insects to enter. The movie has the best way of advertisement. They have several large neatly made poster stands fixed
for the purpose of advertising their pictures. These are left in convenient and yet appropriate places. If the college would
furnish several such boards or stands, all ads could easily be tacked up and taken down when out of date.
This would neither cause destruction of property nor mar the beauty of its natural scenery.

CIGS—Our movies include three classes of people—we, the students, the faculty and friends, and kids. Some years ago a gentleman
would never smoke in any public building where there wereMixed crowds, nor around the ladies. Although smoking is quite the
fad among the women of some sections, it has not reached here yet. The town people object, the faculty does
not like it, and our friends, many of them, say nothing, but they must consider it bad taste. It is
bad for all three classes because it makes the hall very close on hot nights, it mars the clearness of
the pictures, and it is a nuisance to the students. We have to place our cigarettes somewhere, and those above
throw them down on those below. Those below naturally react, and it causes disturbances. It shows little courtesy for the
faculty or our friends. It is certainly to the discredit of our manners. No one could go into a decent
theatre smoking away on cigarette stubs. It sets the kids bad examples, and in attempting to follow us, they think
it is smart, and who knows but that on the quiet they are swiping cigarettes and smoking them in the
dark. It is bad for those who don’t smoke, for some will have to inhale as much as the smoker
himself. Then, again, later on after the show, we have basketball games, class, scrub, varsity, and practice. The cigarettes are
all over the floor, and Charlie, even with his new broom, can’t sweep them away. The Freshmen have been forbidden
to smoke. We, who call ourselves gentlemen, have been kindly and tactfully requested to stop. No matter how great or
how far a man rises in the world, unless he is courteous and considerate of the little things, he never
will be a polished gentleman. Fellows, let’s live up to the name by which we are called—a true Southern gentleman.

P. S.—Smoke just before you go in, between acts, or in the intervals, if you are such a fiend you
have to have your cigs. Go outside to smoke.

Since the beginning of the present term. Sum Smokeless Nite.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE HIGHWAY

The recently completed highway between Charlotte and Statesville that passes through Davidson was named the Davidson College Highway by the
State Highway Commission at its meeting last week. The highway is a new asphalt road about 45 miles long which
crosses some of the prettiest country and affords some of the most picturesque views that can be seen in middle
North Carolina. The following telegram announcing the action of the highway commission has been received by Dr. Martin, president of
the college:

“Dr. W. J. Martin,
“Davidson, N. C.
“The State Highway Commission at its meeting today named the road from Statesville to Charlotte the Davidson College Highway.
“W. C. Wilkinson,
“Com. 4th District.”

Aside from adding much to the beauty of Davidson, this road under its new name will prove an asset to
the college.

MINISTERIAL STUDENTS HOLD PEPPY SOCIAL

“Preachers are big eaters”—so the old saying goes. This statement was proved Saturday night when some 40 prospective ministers gathered
in the bug lab for a feed and social to welcome the new men. Just about the time the table
had been cleared of sandwiches, cakes, and candy, Lee McLean made a motion that everyone show what was in his
pockets. This motion was ruled out of order, whereupon Lee pried another sandwich from his pocket and indulged in it
savagely. After appetites had been satisfied, each one present was asked to give his name, where he hailed from, and
also a good joke if he knew one. The first of the worthies to rise was “Dope” Matheson, who became
so engrossed in telling about the wonders of Mooresville that he forgot to tell who he was. Several startling tales
were told in regard to “Duke” Walthall and his dealings with the fairer sex during the summer. Several times the
quietness of the evening was broken with hot discussions concerning the outstanding qualities of Carolina, Georgia, and Alabama. The meeting
closed after all the members had gathered together and sung everything from “O Mister Moon” to “Goodnight Ladies.” The last
songs were sacred songs, and from the way they were sung, it seems that some churches are going to get
singers as well as ministers.

VOLUNTEERS OPEN YEAR WITH GET-TOGETHER FEED

Saturday night after the movies, the Volunteer Band enjoyed a jolly good time together with several new men and visitors.
The “feed” was well attended and enjoyed by all who were present. This being the “get-together” meeting for the year,
the new and old men learned to know each other better through the “paper bag handshake.” When all had feasted
and were content, a business meeting was called by Angus McBryde in the absence of the president, Perrin Hudgins. The
Y. M. C. A., having changed the hour for the Bible study classes to ten on Sunday mornings, the band
was glad to change its hour and give place to this all-important work on the campus. The band will meet
each Sunday night just after Y service in Shearer Hall. Business being over, several interesting and helpful talks were given.
Ted Jones, Hillhouse, president of the student body, gave a brief talk, adding a few words of courage and (Continued
on page 5).

Who Knows?

That originally Pink and Blue, the colors of the two literary societies, were the Davidson colors? When the change was
made from the original Pink and Blue to the present college colors? That the first college yell at Davidson was
heard in ’89-’90? That so ran this yell: “Rah, Rah, Rah, Run, Run, Run, Pink and Blue! Dav-id-son!”? That the
first resident M.A. student was a Frenchman, Jules Claude DuFour, who received his degree in 1891? That once there came
a little Freshie to college who, under the instigation of cruel Sophomores, recited so touchingly “My Mother's Little Pussy Cat”
that he was promptly named “Little Puss”; that his larger brother naturally became “Big Puss”; and that a be-whiskered member
of the family joining the ranks of the faculty just as naturally became “Woolly Puss”—later shortened to “Woolly”? That Hazing
was “absolutely abolished” at Davidson in ’09-’10, when the faculty received a memorial signed by the entire student body, with
the exception of two men, setting forth the fact that they agreed and promised to refrain from any and all
forms of Hazing so long as they continued to be students at Davidson? That this pledge was signed by all
incoming Freshman classes and was effective in stopping Hazing for years, until the pledge wore out? That Hazing was “absolutely
abolished” at Davidson in ’09-’10, when the student body took the matter in hand and that this also was effective
until the student council denied its police responsibility and confined its attention strictly to judicial functions? That the moral of
the last two “Who Knows?” is double:
1. Let not the class of ’23 claim over much as pioneers in “absolutely abolishing.”
2. Let not the student body think that mere adoption of a good “system” will “absolutely abolish”?

That up to ’89 the only football played at Davidson was the “rough and tumble” kind wherein sides of equal
number embracing, on occasion, the whole student body, sought by kicking, knocking, and any other means except carrying and throwing,
to force the ball between opposite goal posts, usually two conveniently growing trees? That Dr. C. G. Vardell, ’88, then
a student at Princeton Seminary, was the first to give Davidson students knowledge of the present football game, in the
winter of ’89? When the first intercollegiate football was played by Davidson?

DAVIDSON MEN WIN R. O. T. C. CUP

The elaborate loving cup, won by the ten Davidson representatives this summer at Camp McClellan, Alabama, over all colleges and
universities in the Fourth Corps Area, is an object worthy of pride. The cup, a handsome work in silver, standing
about two feet high, bears this inscription:

R. O. T. C. Summer Camp Trophy
Senior Units
Fourth Corps Area

Those boys attending the camp and who won the trophy for their Alma Mater are:
G. M. Ford, ’24
H. G. Fenton, ’24
W. H. Cromwell, ’24
A. C. Wildman, ’24
W. R. Kretschmar, ’24
J. B. Hall, ’25
J. R. Gudger, ’25
J. P. Hendrix, ’25
W. I. Howell, ’25
W. C. Ramsay, ’25
