THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1922

SATURDAY | 7 P.M. Promptly
Marie Prevost and Johnnie Walker in “RED LIGHTS”
A Goldwyn Picture Distributed by Goldwyn-Cosmopolitan
Pub. 3 I-col. Admission 25c “Bring A Chair”

New Movie Attractions Booked By Y. M. C. A.
Red Lights, The Rear Car, and Green Goddess to Be Shown on Screen

One of the greatest mystery plays of the year was “The Rear Car” by Edward Rose. The play ran for a long period in many large theatres and was pronounced by many as the best mystery story since “The Bat.” The Goldwyn Company has made the screen version of this play. “Red Lights” as the screen story is called, has in the cast many of the best artists, including Raymond Griffith, Marie Prevost, Johnnie Walker, and Alice Lake. The consensus of opinion among the film producers is that the American audience prefers first of all good, clean comedy. Its second choice is the mystery story. In “Red Lights” which is coming here Saturday Night, the mysterious complications keep a tense interest throughout, and hold the audience in a state of suspense until the very last scene. During the production of the stage play, members of the audience shrieked and gasped at the thrilling situations. The screen version promises to present much more of a thrill, as the different scenes can be made more realistic than they could possibly have been on the stage. The greater part of the action transpires on the rear car of the Continental Limited.

What Theatre Magazine has to say about “The Green Goddess” which is to be here next week, “In the screen version, the satire is ignored, but the melodrama remains. It is uncommonly good melodrama, rushing and pictorially exciting. In fact, the screen has the advantage over the stage in that scenes like the aeroplane accident and the bombing of the palace are elaborated with a fidelity that was naturally impossible behind the footlights. And Sidney Olcott, the director, has caught with startling effect, the lights and shadows of the weird and unnamed country in the Himalayas. Most playgoers know the story of the little group of English travelers wrecked in this strange land and left at the mercy of a suave and silken Rajah of Rukh. The plot revolves around the efforts of this smiling villain to get the beautiful English matron into his clutches, a scheme which is foiled by much byplay with wireless and hurling of bombs in the hands of rescuing troops. In the screen cast, this version retains the two arch-villains of the stage: George Arliss as the sinister Rajah and Ivan Simpson as the purring, cringing valet. Mr. Arliss, by some magic of his own, makes his villainy as subtle on the screen as it was on the stage.

“Red Lights,” the show this Saturday, will begin promptly at 7 o'clock. The admission is 25c. “Bring a chair.”

Davidson Men Apply For Rhodes Scholarships
Cox, Galloway, Sprunt, and Walthall Apply from Different States

It has been announced that it is the purpose of four Davidson men to make application for the famous and greatly coveted Rhodes Scholarship which is offered to students of American universities and colleges. Davidson College has been represented before with this honored distinction and it is sincerely hoped that the men who will soon make their application will not be disappointed in their desires. The men who will soon make application are: James Sprunt, ‘22; applying for the S. C. Scholarship; D. D. Walthall ‘24, applying for the North Carolina appointment; W. F. Galloway, ‘24, applying for the Georgia appointment; and W. M. Cox, '24, applying for the Alabama appointment. The award consists of three years scholastic work and all advantages at Oxford University, England. The entrance and beginning of work in this famous institution take place one year after the appointment is given. The custom of each state, in granting appointments, is that each has two representatives who are appointed every three years. As is generally known, the three things which determine a man’s qualifications are his scholarship while in college, leadership while in the midst of student life, and his physical fitness and ability.

GLEE CLUB WINS FAVOR OF SHELBY IN CONCERT
Ted Jones’ Mirthful Melody Men Sing Themselves Into the Hearts of the Shelby People

Ted Jones’ Mirthful Melody Men invaded the fair village of Shelby last Friday night, pulled off a most creditable concert, pulled up their stakes shortly after, and as the Arabs of poetry, “silently stole away.” Everyone in the audience, even the old lady with the trumpet, voted it the best concert given in Shelby since its last Ford car days. Leaving here Friday afternoon in the U-Pushem, the lads arrived at their far-flung destination early enough to be taken to the homes of various citizens of the town where they all enjoyed real dinners, such as is not the usual daily fare of the college boys. The concert was given in the high school auditorium and a good-sized crowd was present. Intense interest was displayed from the very start by the keen and appreciative audience, who frequently broke out into loud bursts of applause that was appeased only by a second and third rendition of the selection. Piggy Martin with his black-face antics, and Watt McCain were especially well received. The instrumental selections seemed to be the most popular, as the jazz orchestra and the symphony orchestra together made a decided hit there. As college obligations demanded that they should appear in their accustomed places the next morning, a night run was necessary back to the confines of Davidson. They straggled into that highly respected village at all hours of the night and early morning, a few of the socially inclined going by way of Statesville or other places. The trip was profitable to the Glee Club and also was well enjoyed by all its members.

OKEY’S MEGAPHONES MAKE DEBUT AT STATE GAME

Well, here they are at last, at least one of them is. Okey’s dream has come true. The first of the two new megaphones made its debut at the State game and was enthusiastically received. It's about four and a half feet high, and a foot and a half wide at the big end. “Shorty” Love was caught trying to appropriate it, and upon being questioned tearfully explained that he wanted to make a wigwam out of it. Someone suggested that Professor Harding use it on “Fresh” Poteat as a dunce cap. Okey is planning to have “Davidson” painted in red on the side of the two megaphones as soon as the other one has dried enough. He does not need to worry any more about getting the attention of the football crowds, for the combination of that wind instrument and his stentorian voice makes a fear-inspiring noise that can be heard for many a mile.It now remains for the student body to do their part and co-operate with Okey and his assistants to the fullest extent of their lungs.

Phi Beta Kappa Men

Albert Miller Hillhouse

Albert Hillhouse, who is now serving as president of the Student Body, having been elected to this office last spring, holds the respect and admiration of everyone. He is one of the most popular men on the campus as can be attested by the many high offices he has held during his years at Davidson. He has served as vice-president of his class during its first year, as president of the class during the Sophomore year, and finally is now most efficiently serving as the leader of the entire student body. He has been interested in Student Government and in the Y.M.C.A., of which he has held various cabinet positions. Last year he made the honor roll with a high average, and as his scholarship has always been of a sort that few reach, his initiation into the ranks of Phi Beta Kappa comes as no surprise to his friends. Unobtrusive and quiet but firm in his convictions, Albert is the logical man to lead the Student Body through this year, which holds such bright promises of being the most successful year in the history of the college.

John Irving Smith

“Johnny” is the fellow who is known and liked by every man on the campus. Although quiet and unassuming in his ways, nevertheless he has made himself a large place in the student body by his scholarship and the general all-round qualities that go to make a real college man. Ever since his advent into Davidson, Johnny has set a standard for scholarship, making the honor roll the first year and his Junior year, with every promise of being the Valedictorian of his class this year. He has been active in literary society work also and was elected vice-president of his class last year. He seems to be the one to succeed “Par” Crawford at first base on the varsity baseball team this year as he has worked hard on the scrubs and class teams and has about mastered the art of holding down the warm corner. His election into the Phi Beta Kappa is an honor that he may well be proud of, and we are all sure that Johnny is a man that fulfills the highest ideals of this fraternity.

David Barclay Walthall, Jr.

Barclay Walthall is a man who is honored by being initiated into Phi Beta Kappa for his high scholarship and many and varied campus activities. Hard work and lots of it has been his motto for the three years that he has been in Davidson, and his success along scholastic lines has been marked. Not only in his studies but in literary lines has Barclay shown his proficiency. He has made good in debating and in active literary society work. Also in the Ministerial Band and in the Reporter’s Club he has shown untiring interest. He was recently elected into the Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity in recognition of his literary ability. He has been a regular contributor to the Davidson College Magazine through his three years, his verse attracting the attention of all who have read it. He was elected president of the Reporter’s Club last spring and through his efforts the Club has made progress. Walthall is a man of whom Davidson may well be proud.

Warren Murdock Cox

Warren has proven himself apt at everything that he has tackled at Davidson. Both in scholarship and athletics has he succeeded. Many claim that one cannot pursue his studies diligently and be an athlete too, but Warren Cox has certainly dispelled that idea around Davidson. He made his letter on the varsity football team last year and will no doubt receive another “D” this year to crown his efforts on the gridiron. Since the first of his Freshman year, he has shown himself proficient in his studies and in literary society work. He has won several declaimers and orator’s medals and served as first term President of the Philanthropic Society this year. Also, he has been one of the men instrumental in perfecting the court of control and student government. He is popular with every fellow on the campus and always has a friendly word for everyone. His election into the ranks of Phi Beta Kappa comes as the reward of hard work with his studies and outstanding work in campus activities.

METROPHILIANS

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society was held Nov. 6th. The entire program of this meeting was presented by members of the Freshman Class. The subject for the debate was: Resolved: That a Third Political Party is needed in the United States. The affirmative was upheld by W. T. Covington and T. H. Hamilton. The negative was supported by J. G. Hand and P. C. Henderson. Each debater was well prepared, delivering a forceful and thoughtful speech. The decision of the judges was in favor of the affirmative. A delightful event was read from one of the daily newspapers by W. C. Hodgins. An oration was delivered by R. A. Hunter, Campus Topics. The meeting was well attended, nearly all members being present.

INFIRMARY SICK LIST HOLDS STEADY DECLINE

Only four men were confined to the infirmary last week. They consisted of two Seniors, one Junior, and one Freshman. The Sophs still hold the record for being the healthiest class, while the Seniors sent more men last week than any other class. The infirmary roll grows smaller each week, and there seems to be very little sickness on the Hill. This is rather exceptional when the time of the year is considered. Those reporting at the infirmary were: Priest, A. Guiton, W. M. Heston, Perry A., and J. Melnnis.

SPECIAL HOLIDAY OFFER

Opportunity of a Lifetime

Don't spend your hard-earned money foolishly and buy for Father, Brother, Husband, or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled or plated watch. Give him the best there is, it is the cheapest in the end, to be remembered forever. Limited quantity, genuine, solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold watches, Waltham movements, fifteen jewelled movements. Send Post Office order now, and receive watch immediately sent to you, registered, fully insured, packed in expensive, beautiful lined gift case. Act quick. Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, white or green solid-gold, wrist watches, latest designs, octagon shape models, full jewelled. The very thing that you have wanted, and admired on others. Now in the reach of everybody. Guarantee enclosed with every watch. Plain, engraved, thin or octagon shape. Elgin or Illinois twenty-one jewelled movements. Don't delay, get one while they last.

EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO.
1482 Broadway, N. Y. C.
Telephone Bryant 10259

Attention Ladies

What a difference just a few cents make! FATIMA