THE DAVIDSONIAN

BARRACKS SUPPORT APPARENTLY BASEBALL FIREPROOF AND TRACK FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1923 No. 18

FIRE COMPLETELY DESTROYS WATTS DORMITORY

RAPIDLY SPREADING FLAMES PLAY HAVOC WITH BUILDING

Valiant Work Saves All Adjoining Buildings and Personal Property of Students

ORIGIN OF FIRE UNKNOWN

Alarm Sounded During Church Service and Congregation Is Dismissed

The college suffered a loss of approximately $45,000, forty-nine students were made homeless, and the campus was divested of its
most centrally located dormitory, when Watts Building was claimed by fire of unknown origin, during the church hour Sunday morning.

The fire was discovered over the front end of the third-floor hall by Albert Wildman, about 11:25 a.m. Wildman sounded
the alarm and returned to fight the flames, finding the second room on the right of the hall practically enveloped
in fire. As though by magic power the flames spread to every quarter of the uppermost story, aided by a
steady breeze and a draft from the opened windows of the building. Efforts on the part of the students and
college authorities, summoned from the morning church service, were futile, due to the lack of water pressure, the headway of
the flames, and the nature of the fire. Once the flames gained an entrance to the plastered walls the total
destruction of the building was foreseen and all efforts were bent toward the saving of adjacent property.

Buildings Threatened

Sparks and the heat from the fire threatened the dormitories on either side, and the old power house and commissary
in the rear, but the untiring work of students and townspeople served to prevent further disaster. Chemicals and wet blankets
were used effectively, in conjunction with the weak streams of water, to protect Georgia and Rumple, while a bucket brigade
ably handled the small blaze which threatened the home of the Misses Shewmaker.

Church in Session

In the Presbyterian Church at the southwest corner of the campus, the speaker, Doctor McCallie, Korean missionary, had hardly announced
his text and entered into his discourse, when the announcement was made of the conflagration. The service was (Continued on
Page 6)

Doctor Martin Speaks

In a statement before the student body Monday morning, Doctor Martin said it is his expectation to see a new,
modern structure on the site of Watts Building when the new term opens next fall. He cautioned that he could
promise nothing definite, but that a new building is reasonably expected to be constructed at once. Special arrangements were made
by Doctor Martin and Mr. Jackson to provide for all students who roomed in Watts. They are being ably cared
for in the parlors of the new buildings, the gymnasium, and in the rooms of friends. The matter of a
new building will probably be broached at a meeting of the board of trustees to be held this week.

Right—Watts Dormitory, destroyed by fire Sunday morning. Left—Rumple Dormitory, saved through work of students, despite high winds which carried scorching
heat from the burning adjoining.

SUCCESSFUL CONVENTION OF LAYMEN HELD IN CHARLOTTE

Many Davidson Students and Alumni Among Those Present

Acting upon the suggestions of various members of the faculty and taking advantage also of the generous offer made by
the faculty, quite a few students attended the Laymen’s Convention on last Thursday and Friday at Charlotte. The faculty agreed
to allow any student to attend the convention and further agreed that any excused absences thus incurred should not affect
the grade of the student.

The Laymen’s Convention is one of the greatest gatherings that is held by the Southern Presbyterians during the year and
has become an important factor in the advancement of all phases of Christian activity and endeavor. It is held biennially
and is widely attended by men from all over the South who are interested in the work being done by
laymen. Davidson was particularly fortunate in having the convention so conveniently located and a large number of the faculty and
students took advantage of the opportunity presented.

The convention theme for practically all the gatherings has been “World Evangelization.” As a secondary theme, the verse “Unto Him
who has washed us from our sins in His own blood,” was used. The programs for each session followed this
thought throughout. Talented speakers with live messages came from all parts of the country to represent the many departments of
the work of the Church. Among these were Dr. J. O. Reavis and Dr. Tolly Thompson, known to all Davidson
students, Dr. J. Campbell White, Dr. J. P. McCallie, Dr. M. E. Melvin, Rev. Motte Martin, and Mr. Frederick Sullens.
All those subjects which are vital in the advancement of Christianity at home and abroad were carefully studied and discussed
with great fervor and earnestness by great speakers and delegates. Facts and needs of the foreign field; evangelism, the family
altar, tithing, equipment, and personal experience were some of the subjects taken up in (Continued on Page 8)

TWO-THIRDS OF FUNDS FOR NEW CHAMBERS SUBSCRIBED

Work On the Foundation to Be Started Within Sixty Days

PROGRESS IS GRATIFYING

Classrooms to Memorialize Outstanding Friends of the College

The campaign for the $600,000 fund for the rebuilding of Chambers Hall and the endowment of Davidson College has passed
the $400,000 mark. This leaves $100,000 to be subscribed by the Synod of North Carolina and the alumni, and the
remaining $100,000 to be raised in the Synods of Georgia and Florida. Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, director of the campaign, is
very gratified by the progress it is making and, in view of the amount of the fund already raised, the
work on the foundation of the new Chambers Hall will start within the next sixty days.

In the new Chambers Hall, there are to be located thirty classrooms, or lecture halls. These teaching quarters have for
some time been Davidson’s greatest physical need. At present, there are only five recitation rooms on the campus built designedly.for
such use, while there are twenty-eight teachers. It has been thought that it would be a good and an inspirational
plan to have each of these thirty rooms memorialize an outstanding Presbyterian of the present or the past, whose friendship
for and interest in the denomination and college has been conspicuous. As an exceedingly large number of the leaders of
our church obtain their training here, how appropriate that these splendid spirits should thus be memorialized in the midst, as
it were, of the student activities, that the lives of those commemorated should be a constant inspiration to the young
men who are being trained to carry on the work done by them. Eight of these memorial lecture halls have
already been established by donors. For Mr. R. A. Dunn, president of the Com- (Continued on Page 6)

DOCTOR GREY PLANS VISIT TO MANY EUROPEAN CITIES

Itinerary to Include Many of the Historical Cities of Italy

Dr. W. R. Grey, vice-president of the college and head of the Latin department, has announced his plans for a
trip to Europe to do research work in connection with his duties as professor of romance languages at Davidson. Doctor
Grey plans to leave America either the 16th or 23rd of April and is now arranging his classes so that
it will be possible for him to execute his plans. He will arrive at Brest, France, about the first of
May and then expects to spend about four months in the romance countries of the Eastern Hemisphere. Upon his arrival
in France, Doctor Grey plans to spend a few days in Paris before going to Italy, the home of the
old Latin-speaking nations and the scene of the many ruins of old Latin architecture, made famous by the extensive researches
of eminent archaeologists and geologists. There Doctor Grey plans to spend about eight weeks, most of the time in and
near Naples, at no time going further south than Salerno. While in the neighborhood of Naples, he will visit Pompeii,
Rome, Salerno, Mount Vesuvius, and other important Italian cities. His itinerary will then turn him back to France where he
expects to spend about six or eight weeks in Paris and the immediate vicinity. Doctor Grey will take special work
in Paris. Doctor Grey plans, also, to make a short trip through Holland and Switzerland, where he will visit the
Alps. While in Europe, he intends to study the customs of the people with whom he comes in contact, as
well as to make a special study of native enunciations. Doctor Grey plans to leave France on his return trip
no later than September 1. He expects to reach Davidson just a few days before the beginning of next term
and will be once more ready to take up his work in the Latin and French departments. In order to
make this trip possible, he is giving his students an extra class each week and will give final examinations by
the middle of April. The sections of French that are not taking these extra classes each week will be turned
over to Doctor Lingle for the remainder of the year.

WILDCATS SUFFER REVERSAL ON PALMETTO STATE CIRCUIT

Furman Hornets Are Defeated by Coach Grey’s Charges in Greenville

CRAWFORD IS THE STAR

Guilford Wins In Last Minutes of Play Over Captainless Davidsonians

Clemson Game

On the opening game of the South Carolina trip, the Wildcat cagers were defeated by the Clemson Tigers 25-18, in
a contest featured by the close guarding of the South Carolinians. The Tigers presented an impenetrable defense and the Wildcats
seldom got a shot under the basket, all their goals being made from the center of the floor. For the
first few minutes of play the contest was a nip-and-tuck affair with first one side and then the other forging
into the lead, but near the end of the half, the Tigers made a spurt which landed them ahead 14-8
at the intermission. The contest was just as close during the final half, the Tigers scoring eleven tallies while the
Presbyterians made ten points, and the final whistle found the Clemson five in front by a seven-point margin. The great
work of George Bryan, left forward for the Clemson team proved too much for the Wildcats. His seven goals from
the field accounted for fourteen of the Tigers' points and came close to equalling the Davidsonians' score. He was fast
on the floor and the close guarding never seemed to bother the accuracy of his shots. For the Wildcats, Warhoss
and Pat were the star performers, each garnering three goals from the floor, while Warhoss made two good from the
free throw line. Never did the Wildcats get a close shot but long shots by both teams made the game
close till the end. Laird and Beall each made one goal which ended the scoring for the Red and Black.
Sook Boggs, at guard, played a stellar game for the Poison Squad, and but (Continued on Page 6)

HONOR ROLL

The fall honor roll has been compiled. The seniors are represented by six men, the juniors by four, the sophomores
by one, and the freshmen by two. Although the sophs can boast of only one honor roll man, she can
be proud of the fact that she holds the man who made the highest grade made in school this past
term. The honor roll for the fall term is as follows: M.A., R. M. Brice, 95.2; Seniors—R. F. Davidson, 97.50;
J. H. Davis, Jr., 95.83; W. G. Guille, 95.66; W. P. Kimzey, 95.50; W. A. Gamble, 95.0; Juniors—W. F. Galloway,
96.42; J. I. Smith, 95.33; D. B. Walthall, 96.16; A. M. Hillhouse, 95.13; Sophomore—M. W. Trawick, 98.71; Freshmen—H. C. Lawson,
96.50; H. L. Shaw, 96.50. These men have accomplished what should be the aim of every man in college. They
realize what they are here for and it is to them that much of the credit for the high standing
of Davidson should go.
