1 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

Town News

Miss Agnes Douglas and Miss Triplett, of Chester, S. C., spent several days last week with Miss Kate Douglas.

Dr. J. M. Douglas and family spent Thanksgiving with Mrs. Douglas’ brother, Dr. Stokes Munroe, of Charlotte.

Dr. J. L. Douglas and sister, Miss Kate Douglas, spent Thanksgiving in Chester, S.C.

Mr. and Mrs. A. B. Riley spent the Thanksgiving holidays with Mrs. J. R. Withers. Mrs. Riley is Mrs. Withers’ sister. Mr. Riley is superintendent of the public schools of Timbrook, N. C.

Misses Elizabeth Parker and Mary Parker Shepherd, of Norfolk, Va., and Miss Sophie Hall visited Miss Sara Lingle last week.

Howard Arbuckle, Richard Grey, Riggs McConnell, William White, R. Johnston, T. Lothery, and Sam Black attended the Student Conference in Greensboro last week.

Miss Eleanor Gordon spent the weekend with Miss Dorothy Finlayson. Miss Gordon is teaching in the Charlotte High Schools. She is always a welcome visitor at Davidson.

Mrs. Ida M. Clift, after a month's stay in Davidson, returned to her home in Florida last week.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hamilton with their daughters, Sara and Martha Hamilton, spent Thanksgiving in Greensboro.

Mrs. S. L. Presson, who attended the U. D. C. Convention in Washington, has returned home. She reports a wonderful meeting and a fine trip.

Mrs. W. A. Jelton and children spent Thanksgiving with her brother in South Carolina, returning home Saturday afternoon.

Mrs. Brady spent last week in Greensboro with her daughter, Mrs. Douglas Brown.

The Civic Club at its meeting in November elected the following officers for the ensuing year: President, Mrs. Brady; vice-president, Mrs. Olin Withers; secretary, Mrs. T. E. Lothery.

The first quarterly Conference of the Methodist Church was held last Monday evening. Rev. D. M. Litaker, of Statesville, presided.

Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hamilton attended the funeral of Mrs. Hamilton’s uncle, Mr. George Deaton, at Mooresville, Tuesday.

Mrs. W. B. Mayhew, of Greensboro, has returned home, after a visit here with her mother, Mrs. Brattain.

Miss Madeline Cathey, who teaches in the Gastonia schools, spent the Thanksgiving holidays at home.

A business meeting of the Senior Epworth League will be held at the parsonage Friday evening.

As a result of the book shower, held in November, the Civic League had 97 new volumes added to the Library.

Miss Sara Lingle spent Thanksgiving at Salem College and attended the alumni banquet on last Thursday night.

Mrs. Kenneth J. Foreman returned last Monday, after a short stay at Matheson Hospital, in Charlotte. While there she underwent an operation on her throat. Her friends are glad to know that she is recovering rapidly.

Mr. and Mrs. Charles Foreman, of Charlotte, spent last weekend with Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Williams.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle was called to St. Louis, Mo., last week on account of the serious illness of her mother, Mrs. Souther. Mrs. Souther died last Friday. Mrs. Souther often visited her daughter, Mrs. Lingle, here in Davidson. The many friends in Davidson are distressed to hear of her death, and unite in extending their sympathy to Mrs. Lingle in her bereavement.

Mrs. Wood has returned home last week, after an absence of several months in West Virginia. Miss Jane Price, Mrs. Wood's sister, accompanied her home. Miss Price has visited in Davidson several times, and is always a welcome visitor.

The Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss Maude Vinson last Friday afternoon. Mrs. W. R. Grey had charge of the program. The subject for the afternoon was “Architecture of the Romans.”

Mrs. S. L. Presson spent last week in Washington, at the U. D. C. Convention.

Miss Mary Young has been confined to her home for a short time on account of a slight injury she received some time ago.

C. W. Williams’ mother will spend the winter in Davidson. She has apartments at Mrs. Smith’s.

The many friends of Mr. Lloyd Christenbury will be interested to hear that he is improving after an attack of pneumonia.

The ladies have been sewing for the bazaar during the past week. Three nice meetings were held in the neighborhood. The bazaar will be held December 5th, in the Civic League hall, at which time such articles will be sold as will be suitable for Christmas gifts.

Rev. R. L. Foster assisted H. C. Bryan in a meeting held at Mt. Pleasant Church, on the Rock Springs Circuit, during last week.

The Board of Town Commissioners at their meeting last Tuesday, November 20th, awarded the contract for the proposed street improvement to Blythe Brothers, of Charlotte. This includes hard-surfacing Depot street and South or Academy street, and adding to Main street from 12 to 24 feet of hard surface. The work will begin the 1st of December.

At the regular church service last Sunday, Dr. S. D. Gordon preached. Dr. Gordon does not call himself a preacher, but he is a great expounder of God’s Word. His peculiar method of delivery is impressive. He gave a plain and every-day message to the average Christian and filled the minds of all present with new thought along religious lines. His words were forceful and his references to Peter’s life were interesting. He said that all reveal the inner heart in the small things of life. He pictured the love of Christ and told that real love stimulates the mind, body, and soul to do greater things for the Master. He most ably showed how Jesus meets every need of the heart and of all circumstances of life.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT — Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.

Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Yes, we have good things to eat

The Misses Schofield

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office

9 BARBER SHOP

NORTON

Always Something Good to Eat

NEW YORK CAFE

DAVIDSON

NATHAN MARCUS FAISON
R. F. D., C. O. D., B. V. D.
Honorary Commandant Davidson R. O. T. C.
Service of Uncle Sam
Lad From Warsaw Climbs High In Local Military Circles

In the fall of 1921, a green Freshman entered Davidson straight from the long, tall verdure of Warsaw, North Carolina. He attracted attention from the first on account of his erect military carriage. In addition to his regular R. O. T. C. work, he signed up in Oz Bethea’s Prussian Guards, together with Zeke Johnson, Jim Pleasants, Beauty Jackson, and the McIver Twins, and distinguished himself in the service. In the spring, he proved himself one of the best marksmen in college and won the rifle and crap-shooter's medals with little difficulty. The next year he repeated, being the first man to win both medals for two consecutive years. His admirers are looking for him to cop the honors again this year. On account of a broken leghe was unable to pursue his R. O. T. C. work last year, but has almost caught up this fall. In the last three months, he has done such splendid work and overcome his handicaps so that at a recent meeting of the Student Body he was unanimously elected Honorary Commandant of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit. It is said that a sailor has a sweetheart in every port. In addition to his strictly military attainments, Nathan upholds the honor of the army in this respect, and no sailor has anything on him. He is contemplating the engineering department of the service as soon as he completes his education. His proficiency at bridge will prove an invaluable aid to him in the next war, for bridges are an absolute necessity in the transportation of troops. He demonstrates his proficiency daily. Unfortunately, he seems to have contracted a bad case of facial paralysis lately, which has turned his usually good-looking countenance into a perpetual silly grin. The Davidsonian photographer has attempted to secure him in this characteristic pose, but all attempts have failed. This unfortunate contortion can be seen at any period of the day or night. The Warsaw people should be proud to claim the acquaintance of this illustrious young officer who has so distinguished himself. Mr. Faison’s attainments have thrilled the ladies to such an extent that he no longer has to buy movie magazines. All the movie actresses send him their portraits and besiege him with offers of marriage. So far, he has successfully defended himself against these tempting proposals in order that he may continue his course in training for a generalship in the next war. The Davidsonian wishes to extend its thanks to all members of '27 who aided in any way in securing this picture of Davidson’s illustrious son for publication.

Nathan Marcus Faison, dear—
Golly, that sounds queer
If only I could have you here—
Golly, that sounds queer
O’er your picture I just rave—
Honey, you do look so brave,
But it’s only you I crave—
Golly, that sounds queer.

VOLUNTEER BAND MEETING

The meeting of the Volunteer Band was held after “Y” services Sunday night. The meeting was led by Harry Price. Professor Fleagle spoke to the band on “What I Have Seen of Foreign Mission Work,” from a layman's point of view. He spoke chiefly of Porto Rico, where he had lived for a number of years. He said that in his opinion preaching was not all the work by any means. Once the people are converted, there must be “follow-up work,” as he expressed it, or the people fall into a sort of mediocrity and lose interest. Porto Rico was formerly Catholic and the people looked upon religion as a form. Professor Fleagle asserted that he thought the Americans on the island were a great handicap to the missionaries by their social activities on Sunday. They do not live as the missionaries are trying to teach the natives to live. The daily life of all Americans in foreign countries hinders the work. Lack of preparation on the part of missionaries sent into the field was then discussed. He said that the missionary should be able to fit himself into the community into which he is sent. There is often a mistake in the type of people sent. One hears of the glowing moments in a missionary’s life but does not think of the long dull stretches that lay between these moments. These periods are what make the missionary’s life so hard to endure. Professor Fleagle expressed the chief obstacles to the missionary’s life as being opposition by the Catholics and other people and indifference on the part of the natives. The talk then turned to the great amount of good done by the educational work and hospitals. The occupation schools are largely self-supporting and are doing great things for the younger people. Then the great-hearted, unselfish doctors and nurses are giving up everything to comfort these people who so sadly need their care. The hospitals generally charge something, sometimes only five cents, but this keeps the people from feeling as though they were accepting charity.

MEMBER OF MINISTERIAL BAND TO SPEAK AT HOME

An extensive deputation program is being conducted by the Ministerial Band. Already several important deputations have been sent out, and plans are being made for a number of others in the immediate future. Last Sunday, Guiton and McLean visited the Church of the Covenant, in Greensboro, and spoke at the Sunday services. They report an excellent attendance at all of the meetings. It is being planned to send a man from the Ministerial Band to Hobson's Chapel, a mission of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, to fill the pulpit on every first Sunday. This is a newly organized church and is without a pastor at the present time. The committee on deputations has also written to the churches to which members of the band belong to arrange for them to speak in their home churches during the Christmas holidays.

Williams’ not only softens your beard faster but it contains ingredients which are of actual benefit to the skin.

$250 in Prizes

This is the new Hinged Cap on Williams’ Shaving Cream. Williams’ is the only shaving cream having this convenience feature. We want you to tell us how the cap appeals to you. So we make this offer: For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams’ Hinged Cap, we offer the following prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper only, putting name, address, college and class at the top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.

Leaves Statesville
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver