THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923

Alhambra, Beginning Monday March 26th

SAUNDER'S - “PASTIME REVUE”
PROGRAM CHANGED MON.—WED.—FRI.
10c & 25c Night 7:30-9:00
Matinee 3:30 20-35c

Say it with Flowers — SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N.C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHIRTS
MELLON’S of course

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

Shorty Howell—“How come you left x’s boarding house?”
Fresh Robinson—“Well, the first week an old cow died, and we had nothing but beef, beef, beef. The next week an old pig died, and we were fed on pork, pork, pork. Monday Mr. x’s grandfather died, so I left.”

Society debutantes in the Hornet City say all Wiggs Bradford lacks of being a Sheik is a lot of sand.

100 FATHOMS DEEP
Hugh Smith (at 11:30 p.m.) must be off.
She—(yawning)—That’s what I thought when I first met you.

Some students come to college for an education, and some come for a good time. Both are disappointed.

HOMESICK
One thing college men always believe is that it takes a heap of lovin’ to make one feel at home.

SHAKE, RATTLE AND ROLL
When Elsie and I were playmates
Closely by her porch we stayed.
I mixed the mud for wondrous pies,
That flat on a board were laid,
Then she rolled ’em,
Domestically, she rolled ’em.

When Elsie and I were playmates
She had the men simply wild.
Her daring eyes made rival dames
Seem so pallid, tame, and mild.
How she rolled ’em!

When Elsie and I were sweethearts,
She had a naughty habit.
As I brought forth my Durham sack
Of reaching o'er to grab it.
And she rolled ’em!
Professionally, she rolled ’em!

Now Elsie and I are married.
I buy her silk hose by the box.
She ignores my protestations quite,
And most down to the very clocks
Still she rolls ‘em!
Entrancingly, she rolls ‘em.

A MERRY DRAMA: In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of '26, who constantly craves information. It is our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep” is applicable.

THE HIDDEN JOKE
Act the Eighth

HOW IRRITATING
Here’s to the chigger, the bug that’s no bigger
Than the point of a good-sized pin.
But the point that he raises
Itches like blazes,
And that’s where the rub comes in.

Mac—Boys, open up your ears and listen to these pregnant lines—
Bill—Not so bad, eh, what, as Psmith would say.
Mac—Behold, you are gaining in wisdom and appreciation.
Bill—But speaking of irritating things, I wish that you’d buy yourself a pair o’ shoes. Your continual use of mine is irritating.
Mac—I would if I knew what to buy.
Bill—Buy yourself a pair o’ Clapps. Get a pair with toes a bit square and not too many fancy fandangles; they’re wearing them plainer this year. Wouldn't risk any soft toes, they might last the season through and then they might not. The dope is that blacks and tans are about equal in favor.
Mac—All true, but suppose I can’t afford a Clapp?
Bill—A Clapp will be much cheaper in the long run and no mistake, but if the first cost is all-important, you might try a Thompson, they’re good shoes without a doubt and yet their cost is not excessive.
Mac—And, might I ask, who sells Clapps?
Bill—Mellon’s of course, and likewise they handle the Thompson. Adv.
(To be continued next week)

Zeke Johnson got on a street car in Charlotte last Saturday. An artist began to make a sketch of Zeke. When he had finished, he returned it to his pocket. Zeke, both interested and gratified by this attention, leaned forward and said: “You’re an artist, I guess.”
“No,” replied the other, “I’m not exactly an artist. I’m a designer of doorknockers.”

Prof.—“Mr. Pomeroy, what is ordinarily used as a conductor of electricity?”
Pomeroy—“Why, er-r—.”
Prof.—“Correct. Now...”tell me what is the unit of electric power?” Pomeroy.—“The what, sir?” Prof.—"That will do; very good.”

One of the two things a young girl thinks about is the man she might go with next.

There is a college man who never does
Nor smokes nor chews, nor swears;
Who never gambles, never flirts,
And shuns all sinful snares—
He’s Paralyzed.

There is a college man who never does
A thing that is not right;
His girl can tell just where he is
At morning, noon and night—
He’s Dead.

WISDOM.

TEETH
McCutchen, G—“Come a bit closer so I can get a good look at your teeth.”
McCutchen, J.—“What for?”
McCutchen, J—“Why down on the farm where I come from we always guess the age of a jackass by counting his teeth.”

Once I took all my cuts and went to see my girl. With a few cutting remarks she cut me cold. I took a short cut home, but was hit by a truck load of cut glass with the cut out open. I was all cut up about it and was taken to a hospital and cut up some more. Yesterday I killed a man for calling me a cut-up. I’ll never fall again unless they cut the rope when they hang me.

Ever hear about the dumb-bell girl who thought Herbert Tareyton was a movie actor?

CHARLOTTE.

BUSINESS MAN TO SPEAK HERE

The Y. M. C. A. has succeeded in securing the manager of a large store in Charlotte to speak at the vesper service next Sunday. Mr. Ovens is a big business man, active in church work, and a speaker of wide reputation. Lately he has been to the University of Tennessee and Auburn, addressing the students there. He is a speaker of a type that has never been here before, who can hold the attention of an audience indefinitely. Not content with merely believing, Mr. Ovens has done work which only a layman can do and exercised judgment which only a business man possesses. A man like this cannot fail to interest young men, many of whom plan to enter business as a career. He will show them how it is possible for a Christian business man to accomplish great things for the Church.

The man across the aisle produced a notebook and proceeded to draw. After he had completed the drawing he shut up the book and left.

GIBBS AND PATTERSON SPEAK IN MOCKSVILLE

A deputation from the Volunteer Band was sent to Mocksville on Sunday, March 18th. The men who made this trip were L. B. Gibbs and P. M. Patterson. The gathering to which these two spoke was the Christian Endeavor meeting Sunday evening. Gibbs spoke on the general need of Missions and of workers, the progress that has been made since the beginning, and why it is the duty of everyone who feels the call to go. The great field of China was Patterson's topic, with which he is so familiar, having been born there and living there until a few years ago. He impressed the conditions now prevailing there and showed what China would be without the Gospel. He spoke also of China’s resources, many of which are yet untouched.

Friends of Mrs. James Johnson will be sorry to hear that she fell and broke her wrist last week. Mrs. C. M. Richards is visiting friends in Savannah, Ga. this week.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Brazora 9 Scotch Grain

The only extreme feature in all the length and breadth of John Ward Shoes is their extremely fair price. Their styles are conservative, as college men would have them, and distinguished by a quality of splendid workmanship. Inspect them for yourself. The John Ward representative displays in 106 West March 23 and 24.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

NEURALGIA or headache—rub forehead, temples and back of neck with Vicks. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

*PousquIos j}JJou[q pus dInseBedld uoRsoByp spre Pus YOO} }329MmsS 94) Sozssypes 31 *S.ATTORIM Jo ULIOJ JY} UT JF9MS 3°90 350 B WIM [eour qe yo doy, SATA ppapy Casazq sa73y es , Gunes

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
PIANOS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE