The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’1
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief.
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor.
C. M. S. McILWAINE, Asst. Managing Editor
W. M. COX, Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE, Asst. Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN, Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY, Athletic Editor
J. AS LAKE, Associate Editor
W. M. HES, Peanut Parcher Editor
O. J. ALLISON, Alumni Editor

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. L. PRICE, Business Manager
WATT McCAIN, Circulation Manager
J. STORY, Subscription Manager
L. McLEAN
W. B. CROMWELL
G. A. McCLAIN
RO BRIGGS
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WALTHALL, D. B., Pres.
CALHOUN, M. P.
MONK, C. F.
NARTON, D. B., V-Pres.
EARNEST, J. R.
POMEROY, W. L.
PATTON, J. H., Sec’y-Treas.
GREEN, J. L.
ROGERS, G. D.
ALLISON, O.
HURD, A. M.
SELSER, J. M.
AUSTIN, T. A.
McMILLAN, J. A.
SMITH, B. H.
BEALL, McP. S.
MILTON, W. E.
STORY, E. J.
BOWIE, A. Y.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WU, I. M.
BROWN, W. P.
MOORE, W. H.
WILLIAMS, T. M.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

That old saying that “Every old tub has to stand on its own bottom” has decidedly more truth than poetry in it. The Caucasian race since the remotest history has been noted for its ability to “hold its own.” But evidently these old Scotch-Irish and dilatory Presbyterians have not fully realized this characteristic trait of their own. The sad part of the matter comes when we have to give the essence of pure Africanism the credit for taking advantage of the things given them. “They have a bottom” and what's more they have something to put it on. For instance, Biddle University has a chain of sidewalks that puts Davidson to shame and by this fact alone if an opportunity ever arose whereby Davidson could trade with Biddle, take the man that was responsible for the walks, being there first, then “get the walks.” When old Jupiter Pluvius turns loose part of his elements at Davidson, and by the way he does it quite often, one becomes perturbed for fear the “gospel shop” will float away.

Once upon a midnight dreary
While he sat and called her “Dearie,”
On a sofa made for one but holding two;
While they nodded, nodded, nearly napping
Suddenly there came a tapping,
As of someone gently rapping
Rapping at the parlor door.
“'Tis my father, dear,” she muttered,
Only this and nothing more.
What cared he for her relations,
He was full of exclamations,
Such as “Dearie, does oo love oo dearie more?”
But her father tired of waiting,
Waiting, frowning, aggravating,
Opened wide the parlor door.
Ah, ’tis well will he remember
That cold night in bleak December
As he flew out twenty paces from the door.
And for life he will be branded
Where her father’s boot had landed.

An anthology of the best short stories written within North Carolina collegiate circles during the past year was authorized to be published by the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, in session at Queens College last week.

In the Sahara of Bosart there is an element at work which would see the Southland redeemed in the eyes of the Baltimore critic. We do not mean that we accept the appellation handed out in Prejudices—but even he should be convinced that the Southerner has a literary taste and capacity for literary creation. We trust that the North Carolina anthology will be of such merit that an autographed copy may be sent Mr. Mencken, and that he may see a refreshing spot in his Southern desert.

PASS IN REVIEW

In a period when American college education is passing in review before the judging stand, wherein are assembled the critical minds of the world, there is heaped upon the shoulders of the college student a solemn burden. Only an unfaltering courage to face the censure of public opinion, and a willingness to place the shoulder to the wheel will save the college system of the nation from a verdict that bids fair to lodge it in a truly vexatious dilemma. The stinging criticism that the college student is “notoriously snobbish, hero-worshipping, and intolerant of eccentricity” strikes at the heart of the situation and presents an argument of which the student cannot fail to take due notice. It is sadly true that the colleges, under the strain of widened curriculums, increased enrollments and a policy of ever-extending local and public activity, are allowing themselves to drift into the treacherous current of pretentiousness. An educational structure built upon the unstable sands of social exclusiveness and false pride is as sure to fall into ruin as was a Napoleonic kingdom built upon a false ambition. It cannot be true that the colleges have totally disregarded the acquisition of knowledge, however. Human nature is permeated with a constant desire for educational research. Mankind naturally searches for knowledge; and who can deny that the college student is in the front rank in this crusade for learning? He constitutes the leading element of the scholarly advance, but, according to critical observers, he stands altogether too ready to condescendingly show to humanity the error of its way and the faults of its knowledge.

Hand-in-hand with present-day knowledge must go those qualities of character which will create in man a friendly, forbearing, kind and charitable personality. It rests largely with the students themselves whether American college life be termed a mere “pleasant interlude” or whether it be regarded as an eminent achievement. Nothing lends to the college man that “snobbish” appearance more than a pretended wisdom. An attitude of educational perfection is a defective stone in the foundation of ultimate success and is sure to set it toppling. Why glory in an outward show, a mere surface glamour of wisdom! It is the egotistical nature of the human race to take pleasure in seeming wise. The student feels that his self-respect has undergone a disgraceful blasphemy if he is counted among the universally ignorant. He readily admits the world in general to be ignorant, but invariably he fails to recognize himself as a member of that universal body. A free, frank confession of ignorance and a high regard for the acquisition of knowledge is a necessary step toward the obliteration of the criticism of “foppishness and snobbishness.” A clean-cut acknowledgment of a lack of learning makes room for knowledge. A sufficiently wise man is irresponsive to wisdom, but an ignorant man, with a willingness to learn, has the universe at his feet as a source of knowledge.

True it is that total ignorance is disgrace, but the open-hearted admission of ignorance is far from such. It takes the form of a profound virtue when there is a desire to remedy the evil. If the college student faces squarely the stern censure of public opinion with a free acknowledgment of his membership in the universal order of ignorance and a mind receptive and alert, he then raises himself to the rank of peer, and is the possessor of a knowledge in reality, rather than in pretense. The insulting criticism flung at the college man is readily accepted by the public in general; the matter is not weighed for its true value. He is branded and the sentence is imposed without a semblance of a trial. As the collegian passes the judging stand, he is helpless to plead his cause save by his manners and his attitudes. He is not given the opportunity of securing counsel or of self-explanation; he has no means of defense, save an honest display of virtue. He fights against odds, but he must fight with a true Wildcat determination. More honor for the victory against odds.

Are you thinking of the men who are coming to Davidson next year? Are you thinking of securing men who can serve the college on the athletic teams, in the publications, in the Y.M.C.A., and in a unified spirit of good humor? Well enough! But we have already been called “infants in swaddling clothes” and on these grounds how do you expect to keep the sons of Davidson in a unified spirit of good humor?'Em dry without the necessary provisions— Quoth the raven, “Nevermore.”

Well, sidewalks, —Rainy Day.

“Mister,” began the seedy-looking man, “I haven’t any home, and—”

“No taxes to pay!” interrupted the man addressed. “No coal bills. No worry lest the landlord raise the rent. Permit me to congratulate you. It is indeed delightful to learn that Kenneth Menzies is improving in his golf. He says he made a forty-four the other day—better luck to you on the second hole, Ken.

“I have no job, and—”

“Lucky chap! No danger of getting fired.”

“But I’m serious, mister. I have no money, and—”

“No temptation to spend it foolishly on able-bodied beggars. Why, you're the very child of fortune. Good-day!”—Ex.

Fresh Smith: Say, that last ball you drove nearly hit me in the head. Why don’t you holler “fore”?

Frank Wildman: That’s no waste of energy? Well, I yelled thrice.

The Code of a Good Sport
1. Thou shalt not quit.
2. Thou shalt not alibi.
3. Thou shalt not gloat over winning.
4. Thou shalt not be a rotten loser.
5. Thou shalt not take unfair advantage.
6. Thou shalt not ask odds thou art unwilling to give.
7. Thou shalt always be ready to give thine opponent the shade.
8. Thou shalt not underestimate an opponent, nor overestimate thyself.
9. Remember that the game is the thing, that he who thinketh otherwise is a mucker and no true sportsman.
10. Honor the game thou playest, for he who playeth the game straight and hard wins even when he loses. —American Magazine.

Paul Story came up to what everybody was expecting when he refused to eat anything but peanuts at the Reporter’s Club feed. Too bad there wasn’t a tree handy for him to throw coconuts out of.

Those “High School” boys certainly pulled off a shocking occasion in Chapel the other morning. As Dr. Ogden said: “Boys will be boys.”

What’s Doing
Thursday, April 26th.
3:30 P.M.—Davidson vs. Clemson at Clemson, S.C. (baseball).
3:30 P.M.—Davidson vs. Union Seminary at Richmond (tennis).
7:15 P.M.—Eu. Society.
7:30 P.M.—Phi. Society.

Friday, April 27th.
3:30 P.M.—Furman vs. Davidson at Greenville, S.C. (baseball).
3:30 P.M.—University of Va. vs. Davidson at Charlottesville, Va.

The melancholy days are here
They worry me like the dickens;
It’s too darn cold for B.V.D.’s,
And too darn hot for thick ’uns.

Sweet Daddy!
He—Every time I kiss you it tends to make me a better man.
She—O-oh, you angel!

8:00 P.M.—Davidson vs. Trinity at Davidson (debate).
10:00 P.M.—Reporters Club.

Saturday, April 28th.
3:30 P.M.—Triple track meet, Elon, Guilford, and Davidson at Davidson.
7:30 P.M.—Movies—Robin Hood—at Gym.

Sunday, April 29th.
10:00 A.M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A.M.—Ministerial Band.
11:00 A.M.—Church Services.
1:15 P.M.—Christian Endeavor Class.
6:15 P.M.—“Y” Service.
7:30 P.M.—Evening Worship.

Monday, April 30th.
Baseball team leaves on state trip.

Tuesday, May 1st.
3:30 P.M.—State vs. Davidson at Raleigh (baseball).
7:30 P.M.—Pandemic Society.
8:00 P.M.—Metropolitan Society.

Wednesday, May 2nd.
3:30 P.M.—Trinity vs. Davidson at Durham (baseball).
9:00 P.M.—Bible Classes.

I will start anew this morning with a higher, fairer creed;
I will cease to stand complaining of my ruthless neighbor's greed;
I will cease to sit repining while my duty’s call is clear,
I will waste no moment whining and my heart shall know no fear.

I will look sometimes about me for the things that merit praise;
I will search for hidden beauties that elude the grumbler’s gaze.
I will try to find contentment in the paths that I must tread,
I will cease to have resentment when another moves ahead.

I will not be swayed by envy when my rival’s strength is shown;
I will not deny his merit, but I'll strive to prove my own;
I will try to see the beauty spread before me, rain or shine—
I will cease to preach your duty and be more concerned with mine.

It takes 65 muscles of the face to make a frown and 13 to produce a smile. Why waste energy?

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
Davidson wins her second debate of the year by defeating Roanoke College. The subject for the debate was Resolved, That the Federal Government should permanently own and operate all interstate Railroads in the United States. The men upholding the affirmative for Davidson were R. U. Coursar and G. C. Bellingrath. As usual, these men put forth their best efforts for the “honor of old Davidson.”

Last Saturday at the Quadrangular meet held at Grant Field, Atlanta, Georgia, the Wildcats came in strong for second place, doubling the score of Sewanee, who had third place. Tech entered 15 men, Sewanee 9, Davidson 5, Mississippi A. and M. 1. Tech took first place in seven events, Davidson in five events, Mississippi A. and M. in the pole vault, while Sewanee was not able to take first place in any event. Gray of Davidson was able to show that it took more than talk to win in the weights and added two first places in Davidson’s score in the shot put and discus. McQueen was in his usual good form for high jumping and took first place in this event. The final score was Tech 62; Davidson 33.

The students will be sorry to note that Ralph Flowers has just withdrawn from college. His eyes have been troubling him for quite a while and he is following the Doctor’s advice in giving them a rest. This statement will no doubt startle some of his football opponents of last season, who, from experience, learned that he was always able to pick a hole in their line and use it to his advantage. Flowers is Davidson’s best athlete and we are counting on having him with us again next year.

Our service flag has been taken from the dust of the gym and now flies in front of Chambers where all can see the evidence of our patriotism.

Norman Johnson, '15, will speak to the Y.M.C.A. Thursday night in Shearer Hall. A number of the students know him personally and all have heard of his ability as a speaker. He makes his trip from Union Seminary especially to speak to the Davidson students and to have personal interviews with any who may desire such. He will also be on the Hill Sunday and will address the Y.M.C.A. Sunday evening.

COLLEGIATE EDITORS. GUESTS OF QUEENS BLUES
(Continued from Page 1)

After much discussion between Greensboro College and Trinity, it was decided that the next convention would be held in Durham with Trinity as the host.

The following delegates attended the convention: Ruth Hadley and Jessie Thompson, of Greensboro College for Women; Fannie Paul, Frances Haywood, Frances Cherry, and Alice Lowe, of Meredith; Mary Petenley, of Guilford; Nell Craig and Lena Smith, of N.C.C.W.; J.R. Killian and George Allen, of Trinity; Blanche Caveness and Mary Bulla, of Davenport; Gladys Morgan and Victor Shuford, of Lenoir; W.B. Terrell and S.M. Lyman, of Elon; L.E. Raper and Alvin M. Fountain, of N.C. State; Barclay Walthall, W.Z. Bradford, Randolph Jones, and L.D. Elkins, of Davidson; R.S. Pickens, of North Carolina University; Marion Cooper and Hazel Stephenson, of Salem; W.G. Cash and J.G. Whitaker, of Wake Forest; Sarah Thomas, Eloise Brady, and Anne Parks Moore, of Queens.