made a wonderful record. At Carolina, he has been victorious over Virginia for the past two seasons, which means that
both seasons have been a success.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1923

COACH BILL FETZER
Carolina

Wherever he has coached, Bill Fetzer has made a wonderful record. His stay at Davidson comprises the golden days of
her football career.

ASST. COACH HARTMAN
N. C. State

Coach Herbert Hartman has been Harry Hartsell’s right-hand man during the past season. The Wolfpack’s strong defense is due largely
to his coaching.

A. BROWN, End
Elon

Brown has starred for the Christians this season, and his work on the receiving end of forward passes has stood
out conspicuously.

JACKSON, Guard
Clemson

This Tiger forward only weighs 192 pounds, and on the gridiron, he brings every ounce of his weight into play.
The result is evident.

FIRST YEAR MEN
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Fresh 0, Furman Fresh 0.
Davidson Fresh 12, P. C. Fresh 0.
Davidson Fresh 0, N. C. State Fresh 7.
Davidson Fresh 14, S. C. Fresh 40.
Davidson Fresh 34, Oak Ridge 0.

WERTZ, Center
Clemson

The work of Wertz in the Clemson-Davidson fracas was worthy of note. His work in backing up the line was
of an especially high order.

SPORT MAKES BID FOR PEACE AWARD
(Special—Sporting Life)

The first friendly relations between Jugo-Slavia and Bulgaria since 1915 happened on August 10th with the visit of the Nish
football team to Sofia. A precedent in the athletic relations between the Balkan countries was set by Bulgaria recently in
the successful visit of the Rumanian football team, Tricoulour, to Sofia, and there will be a return visit of the
Bulgarian team to Bucharest.

Recently, the first country club and baseball grounds were established by Americans in the Balkan States, the seat of European
strife, and the Socialist Resistance League of Yucatan has imported 250 American baseball outfits and translated and printed the baseball
rules in the native language, while they have dispatched a physical director to the United States to qualify himself to
supervise baseball instruction in Yucatan.

At last, there seems to be an awakening to the fact that clean, wholesome sport competition may prove the most
potent factor in establishing universal peace.

COACHES

The coach is the man who molds a football team, physically and mentally, and keeps up its morale so that
it may have the best chance to win. Too often, a coach is blamed for a losing season when the
fault lies in some factors over which he has no control. The fault may lie in the player who is
unable to learn the signals, in the lack of adequate material from which to build a winning team, or in
the support it deserves—but the coach gets the blame.

Weight is not everything in football. Brains are necessary, and it is the business of the coach to develop football
brains in men of physical perfection. On this page are the pictures of five coaches of the Carolinas. All these
have been successful in their games with the Wildcats this year. They have proved successful in molding good teams.the players,
but to them belongs the credit for the season's success. It is not the man who makes the winning score
alone who wins a game, but the coaches who have trained that man to the edge of physical and mental
perfection, making it possible for him to star.

COACH BILLY LAVAL
Furman

Coach Laval is one of the wonder coaches of the South and has had wonderful success this season. Although he
has never played football, he is an exceptionally keen student of the game. This year his team beat the Wildcats
for the fourth straight year.

COACH HARRY HARTSELL
N. C. State

The Technicians' mentor is completing his third year as coach of the Raleigh institution. During that time, the Wolfpack has
beaten the University once and lost two close struggles.

RANDOLPH, Fullback
Carolina

Randolph is the Carolina secondary defense. He has weight and, in addition, an unerring accuracy in tackling, which makes him
a difficult man to elude. Injuries have handicapped him this season.

WILLIAMS, Fullback
Clemson

Fast and heavy, this Tiger fullback has been hitting a fast stride this year. His work in the South Carolina
and Davidson games defensively was worthy of note.

WHY I BELIEVE IN FOOTBALL
By Dr. John M. Thomas
President of the Pennsylvania State College
(Special—From Athletic World)

I believe in football because it fixes in every student the spirit of fight and the will to win. It
is all a mistake to say that the men on the bleachers get no benefit. They receive incalculable benefit in
the spirit that surges through them in support of the team—the spirit of determination and irresistible attack. I believe in
football because it fuses the college into a unity. Before the first big home game each year, the college is
only a mass of individuals, but with the long yell that greets the team for its first big fight, a
new and living entity comes into being. In the game, the soul of the college is awakened anew, and he
is no man at all into whose heart the thrills of the contest do not send currents of devotion and
loyalty which will flow till his heart no longer beats. For these reasons, I believe in football—especially football led by
big-hearted men, hard, clean, strictly by the rules, and with every ounce in the fight to the last whistle.

COACH BOB FETZER
Carolina

Bob Fetzer, athletic director at the University, has built up a fine record for himself. Bob, like his brother Bill,
is a Davidson alumnus and former coach. Under Coach Fetzer, the athletic policies at Carolina are broadening, and the new
gymnasium marks a big forward step toward athletics for the majority.

BRAXTON, Center
Elon

Elon’s line is largely responsible for her successful showing this season, and Braxton is the heart of the line. Against
Davidson, he showed up to advantage.

FINKLEA, End
Clemson

Finklea guards one of the Tiger's flanks and is a power both on offense and defense. The pass on which
he scored Clemson’s touchdown against the Gamecocks was one of the prettiest scoring plays seen this year.
