8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

Attractiveness of Rome and London Are Most Impressive to Dr. McConnell

Professor of History, With Family, Visits England, France, and Belgium

Dr. J. M. McConnell, who with Mrs. McConnell and young son, John D., has just returned from a summer's trip through Europe, pronounces the vacation period full of interest but especially manifests surprise at the progress that is being made in the way of restoration through the war-devastated areas of France and Belgium. Dr. McConnell’s itinerary included England, France, Belgium, Switzerland, and Italy. The principal cities visited were London, Paris, Brussels, Genoa, Venice, Florence, and Rome. He was particularly interested in places of historical interest and in England. They visited the battlefields of Verdun and St. Mihiel. Most of the towns in the war zone have been restored, but Verdun is being kept as it was at the close of the war as a memorial. Some of the principal battlefields are being made into memorial parks, but for the most part, the effects of the war are being rapidly effaced.

“The economic conditions are for the most part very good. Switzerland,” says Dr. McConnell, “is having a hard time on account of the fact that there are no Russian, German, or Austrian tourists. They were formerly quite dependent upon these. Now, however, they are entirely dependent upon the American and English tourists for a living. Prices are consequently quite high there. In France, prices are lower than in any of the other continental countries.” The crops in France this year are particularly good. The wheat crop this year is sufficient to supply the entire country. Dr. McConnell says that the French are determined to stay in the Ruhr, and Belgium and Italy are back of them. The English, however, are divided on the Ruhr question.

While in Italy their party spent some days in Rome. Dr. McConnell says that of all the cities he visited, Rome and London interested him most. They went through St. Peters, the Sistine Chapel, and visited the other showplaces of the city. The radicals have lost out in Italy and affairs are entirely in the hands of the Fascisti, which is composed mainly of the young men. Dr. McConnell says that of all the cathedrals he visited, Milan was by far the most beautiful. He says that the Italian lakes are comparable in their beauty to those of Switzerland. Also, the resources of northern Italy are greater and the country is more prosperous than he had supposed.

From Italy, the McConnells’ party went to England, where they spent 10 days in the southern and central part, devoting several days to London. While there they visited Stratford-on-Avon, the home of Shakespeare. They say that two of the most interesting places to be visited in London are Westminster Abbey and the Tower. The English people are working hard to recover from the effects of the war. One can see on every hand that they have been through a great tribulation. Every village has in its center a monument erected to those who lost their lives in the war. A great number of women are working, but in spite of the fact that so many of the people are hard at work there are still some signs of unemployment.

Dr. McConnell says that there is little sympathy for Russia throughout Europe, and opinions differ as to the condition of Germany. The McConnells did not go to Germany. They say that there was a large number of American college professors touring Europe the past summer. It seems that most of the leading colleges and universities are giving their professors a leave of absence, on either full or part pay, amounting to six months or a year, to be spent in Europe. Dr. and Mrs. McConnell went over and back on U. S. Shipping Board ships. They report that the service is delightful.

HOUSE COMMITTEES WILL BE ORGANIZED

Towards the close of last year it was brought to the attention of the student body that some organization should be created in order to help every member of the student body and to remedy many inconveniences and troubles that occur so often in the dormitories. It is the earnest desire of those who are organizing this house committee that every man will understand that this committee is for service and in order to make it an effective organization it must be used by the student body. As stated above, this house committee originated last year and was brought before the student body, and there were explained some of the practical ways in which this committee was to be a benefit. It will function as a body to whom complaints can be made and who are responsible for the condition of the dormitories, such as the washrooms, lack of hot water, and duties of the janitors. Provision will be made for any superfluous noise that takes place in the halls, including playing of musical instruments at the improper time. This committee also hopes to be a help to the Court of Control by seeing to it that certain Freshman regulations are carried out on each floor. It is the sincere hope that the student body will make use of this committee because it is for service and for the purpose of making more pleasant the living of every man here. The committee appointed is as follows:

Rumple—East side, Blue, R. E., 7 K.; West side, Bradford, W. Z., 27 R. (Chairman).
Watts—First floor, Brown, T. B., 104 N.; Second floor, Patterson, N. G., 205 W.; Third floor, Brown, E. D., 301 N. (Chairman); Fourth floor, Young, C. A., 403 N.
Georgia—First floor, Keels, A. C., 2 Ga.; Second floor, Phlegar, D., 16 Ga. (Chairman); Third floor, Walker, Joe, 33 Ga.
Louisiana—Douglas, I. C., 4 La.
West Dormitory—Basement, Allison, O. J., “D” W.; First floor, Heston, W. M., 109 W.; Second floor, Brown, C. V., 211 (Chairman); Third floor, Fewell, E., 311 W.; Fourth floor, Houck, W. G., 401 W.
East Dormitory—Basement, Selser, J. M., “D” E. (Chairman); First floor, Brown, R. M., 113 E.; Second floor, Alexander, H. M., 204 E.; Fourth floor, Cromartie, A. D., 410 E.
South Barracks—McJunkin, J. C., 11 S. B.

RICHARDSON FIELD (Continued from page 1)

and south as did the field. This field also is unfinished, so the details of construction will not appear until a later date, but even now it is not hard to see that when finished, it will be one of the finest football fields to be found anywhere. Around the baseball diamond and the varsity football field runs the new quarter-mile track. The new cinder path has a solid foundation of brick from the ruins of historicOld Chambers on top of which is put a layer of unsifted cinders. It is surfaced with a hard-packed layer of sifted cinders and sand. The track was excavated to a depth of about two feet and each layer thoroughly rolled as it was put down. In width, the track is large enough for five men to run abreast. The straightaway will be directly in front of the stands. To the east of the cinder path and its included areas is the utility football field, in construction and general appearance practically the same as the varsity field. On the western side of the enclosure will be built a large modern grandstand of concrete and steel. The size and seating capacity of the stand have not been determined, but it will be many times larger than the old grandstand. The plan is to construct the grandstand in such a way that it may be completed or continued at any stage. In this way, it may be built and added to until it is large enough to satisfy any demand made upon it in future years. The main entrance to the athletic field will be through the center of the grandstand. Smaller gates for the athletes and officials will be at the northwest and southwest corners. A gate on the east side will lead into the new Sprunt Field, which is to be used by the Freshman team. Tracks and pits for pole vault, running broad jump, and high jump are just to the south of the grandstand, between the varsity football field and the gate. Between the southern end of the utility field and the fence are bases for discus, hammer, fifty-six-pound weight, and javelin throws, and for the sixteen-pound shot put. The tackling dummies are also located at the southern end of the utility field. The utility field and the section south of it are practically complete, and it is on that field that the Elon contest will be staged Saturday. When the varsity field is complete, only the regular games will be played on it, all practice being held on the utility field. The entire Richardson Athletic Field is underlaid with a system of tile drains, and it is estimated that the field will be dry enough for service within 20 minutes after the ordinary rains.

To the south of Richardson Athletic Field and just outside the enclosure, Sprunt football field is being constructed. This field is to be used by Freshmen. At present, it is in a raw stage, grading having commenced only recently. It is to run in the same general direction as the other two football fields, but its level will be some eight or ten feet lower. The construction of a football field for Freshmen became necessary when the one-year rule was inaugurated at Davidson this fall. On the southern side of Richardson Athletic Field and outside the fence is parking space for one hundred and twenty cars. A driveway completely encircles the field. Entrance for cars is from Concord Avenue. At present, the utility field is complete. Goal posts are up on both football fields, but the varsity field is not entirely surfaced. The varsity baseball diamond is unsurfaced, and the track is probably half laid. The grandstand has not yet been started. On the other hand, Richardson field is completely graded and will, in all probability, be completed in detail by the end of the term.

PROFUNDITY OF WISDOM PERVADES THE CAMPUS

Great events cast their shadows before them, and even now Davidson's galaxy of illustrious post-graduates begins to fade into insignificance before the transcendent glory of the four mighty men who propose to “Master the Arts” this year. Even now, the campus life feels its intellectual pulse vibrating from the glorious addition of these, whose profundity of mind is only equaled by their physical grace and beauty.

Joseph Russell Walker, that remarkable contribution of sunny Tennessee, whose presence was one unceasing stream of blessing to the class of ’21, is the vanguard. In sensible anticipation of the vast quantities of psychology with which he proposes to store his voracious brain, he has sought physical perfection upon the gridiron, where, in spite of frequent and prolonged rides upon various “Charley horses,” his stellar performance has awakened widespread comment.

Yes, he’s here too—William Hiram Sharpe, that noble product of DeFuniak Springs, Fla—Hiram, whose exquisite mastery of the written word together with his superbly pleasing verbosity and vivacity have made him a veritable tower of strength. Philosophy, science, and even Greek, having easily succumbed before his irresistible onslaught during his conspicuous career in the past, Hiram now complacently contemplates a successful assault upon Jerry's grim stronghold—History.

Noble Florida, in addition to the astounding Hiram, has also sacrificed from her Everglades another of her matchless sons—John Henry Davis “Bevo.” He, naturally incited by his past notable conquests over college bears, and craving one more sparkling draught from the alluring fountain of knowledge, has chosen Biology for the immediate satisfaction of his insatiable, esthetic appetite. Great Darwin, along with his famous satellites, must needs wane before this new Star of Evolution.

Last, but least only in the trifling matter of physical proportions, comes that phenomenal gift of Arkansas—Francis Cecil Thames. “Izzy,” after cruelly crushing the math aspirations of many members of the class of ’26 by his peerless and flawless insight into the mysteries of trigonometry, heard the insistent call of his extraordinary cerebrum for more strenuous fields of discovery. Finally, he has condescended to consider the intricacies of chemistry for another year.

Herein lies the Quartette Extraordinaire. Perhaps in magnitude of past achievements, in fullness of present perfection, and in radiant promise for a startling future, the Quartette stands alone as “souls like stars that dwell apart.” Who can equal our own incomparable Four: Refined Hiram, Charming “Bevo,” Sophisticated Joseph, and Debonair “Izzy”?

FORDS! YOU DRIVE ’EM
Henderson Auto & Electric Co.

Always Something Good to Eat
NEW YORK CAFE

DAVIDSON S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S.C.

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Fine Shoe Repairing
CHAMPION SHOE SHOP
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Near Post Office

WE SERVE THE BEST SANDWICHES, CAKES, PIES, ICE CREAM, COLD DRINKS
That Can Be Made
THE MISSES SCHOFIELD

“What a difference just a few cents make!”