2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 7, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
W. F. GALLOWAY

Managing Editor
W. M. COX

Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE

Associate Editor
G. M. McILWAINE

Athletic Editor
Peanut Parcher

Alumni Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. L. PRICE, Business Manager

Assistants
W. H. CROMWELL
A. M. HURD
P. J. STORY
J. I. McLEAN
GEO. McLEAN
JULIAN BRIGGS

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Manager
WATT McCAIN, Assistant Manager

Applications for the session 1923-24 forecast a student body of 575. Another record-breaking enrollment, and may it be a good
omen. The delayed construction on the new Watts building will cause a short congestion at a critical time. Of the
575 students expected this year, about 240 will be freshmen. Practically one-half of the entire student body will be new
men. The salvation of a situation such as will exist on the Davidson campus after September 14th is system. The
Court of Control has completed its plans for handling the freshman class as a whole. The organization of the students
promises system in their functionings as a body. System in the governing of both is vital.

And this same type of system in the routine of student life is of paramount importance to each individual student;
be he freshman or upperclassman. System in study has made many an average student have two weeks less of school
during his senior exams and the fellows that take the entire exam period as a vacation are those who started
on system the day after they registered as freshmen.

System in one good habit tends to system in another. Co-ordination of work and play are the main factors in
the development of the man. If you cannot combine them in the proper proportion without a written schedule, make one.
Then follow it.

The day you reach the “Jaybirdsville” station will be the time to start showing some of that old Wildcat Spirit.
A new athletic field, a new coaching staff, a new season are awaiting you. The squad has been on the
grounds working since the first of September. Let’s give them the backing of a student body of 575. Have a
good word for the football man on the campus. Show the fellows who are doing the work that every man
is right behind them.

Make 1923-24 an honor system year. This system is the foundation of the student government at Davidson College and should
be regarded as such in a very strict light. Property of any description is free from molestation in other schools
having the honor system, wherever that property may be. We can do as well. The “Y” Handbook has a copy
of the constitution and by-laws explaining the honor system for the benefit of the new men. These should be familiar
to every student.

The first game is with Elon on September 22nd. Davidson plays two games before the usual season opens. Get out
and back up the squad.

Some of the policies which were decided upon during the latter part of the spring may not meet with the
approval of everyone but it is the duty of every member of the student body to acknowledge the rights of
the majority and to fall in line with the leaders in carrying out their plans. The Court of Control will
be given a real test in the government of 240 freshmen and is entitled to the co-operation of everyone. Turn
out to the “Y” meetings and back Mr. Williams, who fills the secretary’s place this year. You can help the
“Y” by refraining from smoking in the gym; in the past it has kept a number of the ladies from
attending.

WATTS HALL WILL NOT BE READY AT OPENING OF COLLEGE

It has been hoped that Watts Hall would be completed by the opening of college, but on account of delay
in one thing and another it is seen now that it will not be ready for occupancy for a couple
of weeks. This is going to be a temporary inconvenience, but we know the boys will tolerate this in the
best of spirit. Boys rooming on first floor Watts will be placed on first floor West; those on second floor
Watts on second floor West; those on third floor Watts on first floor East; those on third floor Watts on
second floor East.

Castle Heights is 90.3
Tennessee Military Institute--85.0 Georgia Military College
--85.0 Porter Military Academy
--81.7 Sewanee Military Academy
--79.5 Senior Division Davidson College
--87.5 The Citadel
--87.3 University of Tenn
--86.7 Georgia Tech
--83.7 Alabama Polytechnic Institute
--83.5

Official notice came to the college to President Martin in this letter:

August 20, 1923.

R. O. T. C. BOYS SHOWED SUPERIOR SKILL AT SUMMER CAMP

The Davidson students will be interested in the following clipping from The Camp McClellan Messenger:

Final rating of various R. O. T. C. units has been completed. Two groups of schools are represented. First, institutions
of essentially military character and secondly, those colleges of the senior division R. O. T. C. In the first group,
Castle Heights Military College, of Lebanon, Tenn., took high average. Tennessee Military Institution was second with 85. In the second
group, Davidson College led with 87.5, The Citadel placed a close second with 87.3.

Essentially Military Schools

Dr. W. J. Martin, President, Davidson College, Davidson, N.C.

My dear Dr. Martin:

I take great pleasure in informing you that the Camp McClellan R. O. T. C. Camp Trophy, a silver cup,
has been awarded to Davidson College for 1923. This cup is awarded each year to the Senior Unit whose students
make the highest average in the R. O. T. C. Camp. The cup is a perpetual trophy, to be competed
for each year. This trophy, now at the Presbyterian College, will be forwarded to you sometime in September. Please convey
to the students of Davidson College, who were at Camp McClellan this summer, my heartiest congratulations on their success in
winning this handsome prize.

Sincerely yours,
David C. Shanks, Commanding.

GLEE CLUB AND DRAMATIC CLUB PLAN STUNT NIGHT

It is proposed by the Glee Club and Dramatic Club to have a Stunt Night, similar to this to be
held in Shearer Hall about two weeks after the opening of school. Any individuals, groups, or organizations are urged to
enter and to give in their stunt by the 17th of September, so that a rehearsal schedule may be arranged.
Therefore, it is requested that you plan your stunt before coming back if possible.

There is a two-fold purpose for this stunt night: first, to find and develop the musical and dramatic talent in
the student body, and second, to furnish an evening's entertainment. It is not necessary that all stunts be along musical
and dramatic lines, but we suggest particularly dialogues, monologues, impersonations, humorous plays, instrumental music, and acrobatic stunts.

At Emory University, Stunt Night has come to be one of the big events of the year, attracting many people
from Atlanta, and there is no reason why with the cooperation of the students it should not be a big
thing at Davidson. We may at least give it a trial.

STUDENT OFFICIALS

President Student Body: A. M. Hillhouse.
President Y. M. C. A.: W. T. Jones.
President Athletic Association: E. S. Faison.
Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian: L. D. Elkins.
Editor-in-Chief Quips and Cranks: W. M. Heston.
Editor-in-Chief Magazine: W. F. Galloway.
President Senior Class: R. R. Jones.
President Junior Class: C. M. S. McIlwaine.
President Sophomore Class: T. S. Baker.
Captain Football Team: E. S. Faison.
Captain Basketball Team: C. M. Davis.
Captain Baseball Team: E. E. Boushee.
Cheer Leader: O. J. Allison.
Captain-Manager Track Team:
Captain Wrestling Team: H. H. Lindamood.
Manager Football Team: W. Z. Bradford.
Manager Basketball Team: J. I. Smith.
Manager Wrestling Team: J. M. Selser.
President Dramatic Club: W. T. Jones.
President of Pandemic Literary Society: Warren Cox.
President Eumenean Literary Society: L. D. Elkins.
President Metrophilian Literary Society: W. Z. Bradford.
President Philanthropic Literary Society: J. Lee McLean.

DIRECTORY STUDENT OFFICERS

President Student Body: A. M. Hillhouse.
President Y. M. C. A.: W. T. Jones.
President Athletic Association: E. S. Faison.
Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian: L. D. Elkins.
Business Manager Davidsonian: R. L. Price.
Editor-in-Chief Magazine: W. F. Galloway.
Editor-in-Chief Annual: W. M. Heston.
Business Manager Annual: O. J. Allison.
Captain Football Team: E. S. Faison.
Manager Football: W. Z. Bradford.
Captain Basketball Team: C. M. Davis.
Manager Basketball: J. I. Smith.
Cheer Leader: Okey J. Allison.
Captain Baseball Team: E. E. Boushee.
Manager Baseball: A. C. Keels.
President Senior Class: R. R. Jones.
President Junior Class: C. M. McIlwaine.
President Soph Class: E. E. Baker.

BOARDING HOUSE DIRECTORY

No. Name of College Address Students Accommodated Price Per Student Per Month Manager of Boarding House Manager

Mrs. Barnes R. D. White 21 Georgia 50 $17.00
Mrs. Brady Ted Jones 107 West 54 22.50
Mrs. Bramlett Watt McCain 30 Georgia 65 24.00
J. M. Foster J. I. Smith 8 Watts 25.00
Misses Shumaker Harry Price 14 Rumple 160 18.00
J. Lee McLean 11 Rumple
Mrs. Smith Ed. Fewell 311 West 14 25.00
Mrs. Thompson M. D. Field Gymnasium 85 20.00
Mrs. Williamson D. S. Phlegar 16 Georgia 35 20.00
*Mrs. White C. M. Davis 314 West 12 30.00

*Note: Mrs. White’s boarding house will not open until October.
