THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

A good job now cleaning up the dormitories for the college.

It’s our own idea that if slang continues to be slung around here at the rate they've been slinging it, that pretty soon the English Language will be the English Slanguage.

Fresh—Why does Mason Field take cold so easily?
Soph—Vunno.
Fresh—So much of him on the ground.

Ted Buck had taken a sudden liking to the little brown pellets of leguminous goodness, vulgarly known as “Boston Strawberries.” Ted and McCarty walked into a Charlotte cafe, and thereupon Buck ordered a whole plate of beans.
“Are you going to eat all those beans?” said McCarty as he gazed with amazement at the pile on the plate.
“Ain't going to do nothing else,” said Buck as he started in.
“The heck you ain't,” said McCarty.

Billie Long claims he came from royal blood—his mother was a Moxie Queen, and his father was a Cattle King.

Among the prominent visitors on the campus last week was Daddy Dick Leonard, father of the Court of Control, who was here to watch Paw Regen’s boys in action.

At a meeting of the Student Council the other night, action was taken to the effect that they wouldn't need Fresh Inman any longer. We were disturbed until we found out that he was long enough.

The Davidsonian has preferred to print a few of the Santa Claus letters that are crowding the mails these days. The following are from members of our own fast set of naughty boys who have all of a sudden determined to be good so that they may not find their hosiery adorned with ashes instead of Christmas joys:

Dear Sandy Clause,
I am a nice little boy not so very old who sure does like nice things to play with. I have been real good all the year and am better than ever now. I do not play with the bad little boys here as my mamma told me not to. I want you to bring me a little bottle and a brass spoon so I can take it with me.
AK M.

Dear Santa Claus,
I am a little country boy, 23 years old. I go to school at Davidson and like all my teachers. I want you to bring me a pair of shoes, size 14 or larger, and a can of Boston Baked Beans. Also bring me a little red muffler. Don't bring my girl anything, Santa, because she’s mean and doesn't play fair—she kicked me. Bring all my teachers something nice.
Your little boy, Mason Fields.

Fresh Laws, with one of Doctor MacConnell’s prescriptions, spent most of this morning looking for “Doc” DeArmon. Someone had told him Doc was a German stud, and he wanted to get him to read the prescription so he would know what to do.

What the professors would hear if the boys would be perfectly candid with them:
Never mind thanking me, old top, I just did it so you would pass.me. See here, Prof, I'm just riding your course for a crip, and you're supposed to pass me anyway. Frankly, old man, I'm not prepared, I went to a dance in Charlotte last night. No, Doctor, I'm not sick—sleepy, bridge game broke up pretty late, you know. Don’t have any notes on that lesson, old squirt, I was asleep that day.

Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP
Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.

$$ Spooty

Hillhouse—Does your girl dress well?
Railroad Jones—I don't know, I never watched her.

So Cop Johnson (surprising Oskeegum, at a crap game)—Uh-huh, I caught you unawares, didn’t I?
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit

Oskeegum—Gwan, white folks, you know I don’t wear them are things.

A filthy boy is Freshman Sears,
He doesn’t ever wash his ears.
But a dirtier boy is Sophomore Hall,
He don’t even wash at all.

Checking Accounts Invited

Little Boy—Daddy, do they pay Mr. Gordon for coming down here?
Professor—Yes.
L. B.—How much, Daddy?
A. M. P.—All his expenses, and half the gate receipts.

Physics review—Doctor, I don’t remember studying that, those pages musta been torn outa my book.
Professor—Musta been, I know they weren't worn out.

Fresh Shelton—Got my radio working now. Got Pittsburgh last night.
Arbathnot—That’s nothing, I stuck my hand out the window and got Chile.

Sion Alford (complaining about a question)—“I’ve led a fast life, but I’m on my last lap now,” confessed the young bride to her innocent husband.

221 West Trade St

and a magnifying pair of specs so I can afford to look at the grades on my review papers. They look too small now. Thanking you in advance, Johnnie Baker.

Dear Old Santa Claus,
Here I am once more but all I ask is a case of Tanlac for my Christmas present. I want to take this and grow big and strong so I can whale the stuffings out of all these bad boys when they pick on me.
U. Know Me, Buffalo McKinnon

Endeared old Saint,
I prithee send your humble servant some new subjects for my poetic fancy as my voluminous capacity has nearly depleted my lists of subjects. No longer does Love, Beauty, and Nymphs of Loveliness attract the supercilious attention of these bigoted college youths. Now all that I ask is that you tell me what to write for another six months. Anything gratefully accepted.
D. A. S.

Rube—Have you tasted that new candy down at the Honor Store?
Johnny—No, what kind is it?
Rube—Those United States Mints, they're divine.
Johnny—I'm afraid they're too rich for me.

Nobility and otherwise on our campus:
Prince Albert To Bakko.
Duke S. Mixture.
General Debility.
Colonel Wallnutt.
Corporal Punishment.
Major Offense.
Count E. Nance.
Baron Wastes.

No, Hortense, plies and not spades are in Dental Bridge.

Nat Faison wants to know if Key West will open the Panama Canal locks.

While at one of Davidson's most famous Hash Foundries the other day at dinner time, Captain Ramsey was eating some Cottage Cheese. Suddenly he ground down on a hard object which proved to be a splinter. “Aha,” he exclaimed, “I have a piece of the door.”

A lad from our college named Bill,
Who suffering from fever and chill,
One night at a dance
Shook the dust from his pants
And they praise him for shimmying still.

Jitney—Oh, isn’t it terrible about the poor Negro down the street that was blinded the other day?
Jerry—Well, it’s not so bad, he’s got a “fold their tents and silently steal away.”

Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

ANNUAL STAFF WORKING STRENUOUSLY ON ANNUAL

Quips and Cranks, the Annual put out by the Davidson student body is progressing rapidly. Due to a change in the editor-in-chief’s position, because of recent illness, the publication was handicapped for a few weeks. Progress for the month has been exceptionally rapid. All the senior section is completed, the junior section, and the athletic section will be finished by the holidays. This shows a remarkable amount of work accomplished by the members of the staff and their energy and zeal is to be commended. The chief difficulty at the present is a debt which was held over from last year, which makes it extremely difficult for the present staff to put across such an annual as they had wished. The publication of the annual will be held up until all of the debt, which was contracted last year, has been paid. The payment of this debt is an exceedingly hard matter to attend to correctly; and a great deal of effort must be put forth in order that the annual come out on time this year.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola
Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY