VOL. XI

PRESIDENT MARTIN WELCOMES NEW STUDENTS AND NEW PROFESSORS

It is a pleasure to extend a cordial welcome to the students—old and new—of Davidson, as they take up the
work and responsibilities of the new session. I trust that your year may be so satisfactory that each one of
you may look back upon it at its close with unalloyed pleasure and pride. To this end, I pledge you
all the resources of the institution, all the service and goodwill of teachers and officers, and the prayers of parents
and a host of loyal lovers of Davidson boys. Remember, however, that success depends primarily upon you. You can easily
throw your chances of success to the winds, but if you are determined to succeed and give your best to
that end, all other forces will find it hard and difficult to bring about your defeat. Rather, when it is
known that you are “dead in earnest,” the great majority of all influences will be found decidedly in your favor.

All the teachers of last year, with three exceptions, will be back to guide you in your work. Mr. Wagner,
of public speaking and debate, does not return. To succeed him, Mr. Fred L. Dendy, of Alabama, comes to join
our forces. As a student in three universities and a teacher of considerable experience, he comes to us with excellent
recommendations. Mr. L. M. Currie is on leave for one year to do graduate work at Cornell University. Mr. W.
M. Mebane, of Virginia, takes Mr. Currie’s place in the Physics department, and Mr. C. K. Brown, of North Carolina,
does his work in the Mathematical department. Both are Davidson men. Mr. Brown is a Master of Arts of the
University of North Carolina, and Mr. Mebane has his Bachelor Degree from the Virginia Polytechnic Institute. Mr. F. L. Blythe
comes to help in Spanish. He is also a Davidson graduate, a Master of the University of North Carolina, with
a number of courses in other universities, has had quite a good deal of teaching experience in school and college,
and has been spending the past summer in Spain in study and travel. Captain Wetherby, of the R. O. T.
C. Department, has completed his work in this line and is ordered to Panama by the War Department. Capt. George
H. Weems, of the Infantry, with large experience in this country and overseas, takes his place. Mr. Jno. P. Williams,
1916, comes to us as Y. M. C. A. secretary, taking the place of Mr. A. L. Currie, who made
such a marked success last session. Those who knew Mr. Williams as a student and especially as the Student Body
President, will expect him to prove his ability to do the work called for. He was noted for his interest
in college activities and his organizing power. We will give him and his family a cordial welcome as we do
to all the new instructors.

The old students will recognize a number of campus improvements. We have not done all we had hoped to do,
but have done as much as we had time for. Much grading has been done around the new heating plant
and the new dormitories. The new Watts Hall (dormitory) approaches completion. The work has been pushed as fast as it
should have been, but it is physically impossible to complete it by the opening of college and do the work
well. I am sure all the students will join in making the men who are to room in New Watts
comfortable until they can get into their own building. It is hoped that two floors will be ready at the
opening and the other two floors will be ready in some two weeks. The Richardson Athletic Field is expected to
be ready for use by the opening. I venture to predict that everyone will be pleased with this improvement. If
it serves as well as it promises to, I doubt if there is a better college athletic field in the
South.

I give you every one a cordial welcome; I offer you my utmost personal service; I urge you to do
your best the year through, and I wish for you a year of great satisfaction and of a happy life.

Wm. J. Martin, President.

GREETINGS FROM THE “Y”

A GOOD YEAR IN PROSPECT

Atlanta, Ga., Aug. 28, 1923.

Well, fellows, just a few more days until we assemble at Old Davidson to take up our college work, and
I suppose every heart quickens with joy at the thought of it. Of course, we hate to leave Mother, and
Mary, or Dot, or whatever her name may be, and the car and all that goes to make Bingville our
home, but we'll appreciate them more when we return. And then we shall have a grand time at Davidson, for
there we are all good friends; there are no factions, and everybody loves everybody else.

Now, as we approach the opening day, the Young Men's Christian Association greets you and desires to extend to you
a most cordial welcome to “The Hill.” To those who have never been with us before, we want to extend
a special welcome. You will find upon your arrival not a lot of bullies waiting to intimidate and embarrass you
because you are green, but a bunch of big brothers to help you in every way. Even the light hazing
that existed at Davidson for many years has been voted out by the students. We want you to feel that
the “Y” is your personal friend to help you in any difficulty. We shall have a reception committee to meet
you at the train and show you around, helping you to arrange your course. A copy of the “Y” Handbook
will be given to you, and on Monday night will be the annual Freshman Reception given by the Y. M.
C. A. Upon enrollment as a student at Davidson, you become a member of the “Y”; always consider yourself a
part of it and attend the weekly Vesper service on Sunday evenings. The first service will be one of welcome
to you. Don't miss it.

The purpose of the Y. M. C. A. is primarily to lead men to Jesus Christ and to keep them
in fellowship with Him. In addition, we try to provide all possible forms of amusement for the students. Our program
includes a weekly picture show on Saturday nights, at which we run only the best and latest films at a
very reasonable price to cover expenses. The “Y” also cordially greets the old men who are returning. We have lost
a fine group of men in the class of '23, and it is up to you to fill their places
even better than they did. We are sure you will cooperate with all organizations on the Hill tomake a “Bigger
and a Better Davidson.” The “Y” needs you and you need the “Y,” so fall in and give your best.

Yours for Old Davidson,
W. Ted Jones, President of the “Y”.

DAMAGE FEE REGULATIONS

Each student, when he matriculates, makes a deposit of $2.00 to cover miscellaneous breakage. If a window glass is broken
out of his room, it is repaired and a bill is sent out. It is expected that the student will
pay this, leaving the original $2.00 to be refunded at the end of the year, except for such breakage as
may occur in public buildings or halls that cannot be charged to any individual. When a glass or transom should
be broken, the student should take note and call Mr. VanSant’s attention to this. Otherwise, when the repair is made,
it will be charged against the student's account.

AN OPEN LETTER TO THE STUDENT BODY

The opening of the 1923-1924 session will find Davidson with the largest enrollment in its history. With a new stadium
and athletic field, additional dormitory, a new coaching staff, and a larger student body, the possibility of the brightest year
in Davidson's history is ours. The making of this year depends, however, upon the efforts and labors of each individual
member of the student body. It is in our power to make this coming year what we will. We shall
not fail in our duty!

To all of us who return as old men, the new additions to our college life, made possible by our
trustees and alumni, are a challenge for betterment. We return with the renewed purpose to make this year the best
year Davidson has ever had.

To all men entering Davidson for the first time, the college with all its traditions, sacred student life, and honored
customs issues a challenge. We expect you to throw yourselves into the college with all the fire and vigor that
you possess. Your choice in coming to Davidson signifies that you are men and that it is your purpose to
put your efforts into your work and to the forwarding of Davidson's interests. Without this high purpose, you shall fail
to reach the type of man for which Davidson is noted. All eyes are looking to you to succeed. You
must not fail!

We welcome you new men. You will find the student body one big family. Your place awaits you. You will
find certain time-honored customs and traditions which we expect you to fall in line with. Last year, the student body
abolished by a unanimous vote the worn-out practice of hazing. We begin a new year with no symbols of the
old practice left. The court of control, made up of representative men from all the upper classes, now has supervision
over freshman conduct. You will find that body your friend and helpful advisor. It would be well to acquaint yourselves
early with the leaders in the various departments of student life. You will find them ready and glad to help
you get the proper start in your college course.

To all new men—in behalf of the student body—"WELCOME.” Your place as future Davidson men awaits you.

A. M. Hillhouse, President of the Student Body.

CALENDAR OF EVENTS

September 11th—Registration, Re-exams, and entrance examinations.
September 12th—Registration, assignment to classes, etc. Re-exams and entrance exams.
September 13th—College opens, 8:30 a.m.
September 14th—Scheduled classes.
September 15th—Scheduled classes. Movies at gym, 7:30.
September 16th—10:00 a.m., 1st meeting of Volunteer Band, 11 a.m., church; 6:15 p.m., “Y” service, at Shearer Hall. Supper on
Sundays at 5:30 p.m.
September 17th—8:00 p.m., Fresh Reception at Gymnasium. Movies.

ABSENCE REGULATIONS

1. Absence from any college duty will be entered unexcused unless the Dean or College Physician gives permission beforehand.
2. Each student shall be allowed 6 unexcused absences from required college exercises during each term without discipline therefor. These
should be closely guarded to meet only absolutely necessary cases during the term.
3. For each unexcused absence from any class and for each unexcused absence above 3 during the term, the grade
of the student in that class shall be lowered by 1. Exceptions to this rule are to be made only
as indicated under 3 of the Absence Regulation published on page 69 of the catalogue.
4. No student shall be excused by the College Physician on account of sickness where the illness is not of
such a nature as to require confinement in the Infirmary for 24 hours. All other cases must be referred to
the Faculty Committee in writing. The Physician must have been consulted at the proper time and a statement from this
Physician must be attached to the paper sent to the Committee.
5. No student shall be excused for absence by the Dean unless permission is requested before the absence occurred. All
other cases must be referred to the Faculty in writing after conference with the Dean.
6. Parents’ permissions are required for absence from class work but are not considered where students remain on the grounds,
nor when presented after the absence occurred. In view of the new Faculty regulation for grade deduction in case of
excused absence, it is necessary to be more strict than in previous years in granting permissions. Therefore, “blanket requests” by
parents for permission to be absent will not be honored. Specific written requests must be made for each permission.
7. Students must see the Dean or College Physician during their regular office hours. A copy of the Absence Regulations
will be placed in the hands of each student at the opening of the term. The Dean will give no
permits for absences outside of his office except in case of extreme emergency. It is important, therefore, that every student
acquaint himself with the office hours as posted on the door of the office. Read carefully these regulations, it will
save you trouble later.

TRAIN SCHEDULE

Leave Charlotte. Arrive Davidson.
5:20 A.M. 6:13 A.M.
8:20 A.M. 9:18 A.M.
1:25 P.M. 2:18 P.M.
3:30 P.M. 3:53 P.M.

Leave Statesville. Arrive Davidson.
6:00 A.M. 6:57 A.M.
8:00 P.M. 8:55 P.M.

Leave Barber's. Arrive Davidson.
11:00 A.M. 11:50 A.M.
4:40 P.M. 5:30 P.M.

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 22—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 29—P. C. at Rock Hill, S.C.
Oct. 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
Oct. 13—Citadel at Davidson.
Oct. 20—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Oct. 24—Furman at Columbia, S.C.
Oct. 31—N. C. State at Charlotte.
Nov. 7—Clemson at Clemson.
Nov. 14—Carolina at undecided.
Nov. 21—Trinity at Charlotte.
