DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Today—1 Page Vol. 1. No. 6 DAVIDSON, FEBRUARY 15, 1923 FOUNDED 1922

SELF-DENIAL WEEK OBSERVED LOCALLY

This week, February 11 to 18, is being observed in all the circles of the Women’s Auxiliary as a week of self-denial and prayer for foreign missions. Monday afternoon the special subject for prayer was the Orient. At the regular Wednesday night prayer meeting the subject chosen was foreign missions. On Thursday, prayer for Africa was observed in all the circles. Circle No. 1 had an all-day quilting Thursday and was joined at 4 p.m. by Circle No. 4 for prayer service. Circle No. 3 met with Miss Maud Vinson. Friday afternoon at the Civic League Hall there will be a return of the foreign mission study book, “Sunrise in Aztec Land.” Latin-America will be the subject for special prayer. At this meeting, special music, a recitation, and a pageant entitled “Mexico’s Appeal” will be given. A self-denial offering is to be made for foreign missions at this meeting and refreshments will be served after the meeting. All the women of the town are cordially invited to attend.

CROSSMORE DEFEATS DAVIDSON HIGH TEAM

On Tuesday, February 6, the basketball team from Crossmore school trounced the local high school by the score of 18 to 4. Crossmore played good basketball and outplayed their opponents at every stage of the game. Davidson seemed to be off their feet, and although they fought hard, they were decisively beaten. The first quarter soon showed the superiority of the visiting team, which rolled up ten points before Davidson got started. Dellinger, for Crossmore, scored eight of these points. The second quarter was nearly a repetition of the first. McConnell and Grey, of the locals, each rung one, but in spite of the fighting spirit of the Wildkittens, the half ended with the score 16-4 in Crossmore’s favor. The second half was one of the prettiest exhibitions of high school basketball seen here this year. During the third quarter, neither team scored; this was due to the excellent guarding of Grey and Thompson for the locals, and Taylor and Dellinger for the visitors. The last period was as close as the preceding one, but Dellinger managed to slip through the Davidson guards and ring up one more goal to his team’s credit. The game ended with the score 18-4 in Crossmore’s favor. F. Dellinger, the lanky center of Crossmore, was the outstanding star of the game, scoring twelve of his team’s points. Dick Grey played well for Davidson.

DAVIDSON, 17—TROUTMAN, 2

In a slow game last Friday, the Wildkittens defeated the team from Troutman high school by a score of 17 to 2. The game was slow and uninteresting from the first, as everything pointed to an easy Davidson victory. The local boys showed some good form in their passing and shooting, while the guarding of Thompson did much to keep down the scoring of the visitors.

DR. E. H. HARDING DIES AT HOME OF HIS SON

The many friends of Dr. Ephraim H. Harding were grieved to hear of his death on Friday of last week. Doctor Harding was born at Oxford on November 3, 1832, the second son of Rev. Dr. N. H. Harding, who became pastor of the Milton Presbyterian Church in 1836. He grew up in Milton and married there, and Mary D. Richmond, of Milton. He settled as pastor of Black Walnut Church, in Halifax County, Virginia, and during the Civil War was chaplain of the 45th North Carolina Regiment, under Col. Henry Morehead and Gen. Julius Daniel, 1862-65. He was captured by the Union army at Petersburg, Va., in April 1865, where he had remained with a sick comrade after Appomattox, but he was paroled a few weeks later. At the conclusion of the war, Doctor Harding taught school for seventeen months. Later he served as pastor at Concord, Milton, the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, Graham, Augusta, Ky., and Farmville, Va. Throughout his life, Doctor Harding was a devoted lover of books, and a profound student of theology, philosophy, and literature. He was a steady contributor to church papers, although these writings have never been collected and put into more permanent form, as his friends wish. An address he delivered at Union Theological Seminary was printed in pamphlet form by the Philadelphia Presbyterian board under the title of “The Manifestation of Christ to the Believer.” He delivered special lectures before general or special seminary and college audiences on literary and other subjects. The funeral services were conducted Saturday evening at 4:30 o'clock from his home by Rev. Dr. C. M. Richards, assisted by Rev. Dr. M. E. Sentelle and Dr. Thos. W. Lingle. Both Doctor Richards and Doctor Lingle made brief appreciative remarks touching the character and life work of the deceased. The pallbearers were the elder members of the faculty and from the town, Messrs. Cranford and Stirewalt. Surviving are one son, Dr. C. R. Harding, a member of the faculty of Davidson College, and one daughter, Mrs. F. H. Whitaker. His wife died in April 1911. At the funeral, there were many friends and relatives present from Charlotte, Concord, Lenoir, Greensboro, Milton, and elsewhere. Many beautiful wreaths from friends, the faculty, students, and the Beta Theta Pi fraternity were among the number that covered the grave.

TOWN NEWS

Dr. W. J. Martin left Monday for a ten-day trip to New York City on college business. Mrs. James Shumaker has been quite sick with malaria for the past two weeks. Miss Mary Richards was at home from Mocksville the last weekend. The older residents of Davidson who remember Miss Lois Neil will be interested to learn that a library has been named in her honor in Deland, Florida. Miss Neil spent all her childhood and youth in Davidson. She and her mother have been residing in Florida during recent years. Mrs. C. R. Harding has been quite sick with la grippe for a number of days but is improving. Mrs. B. W. Romefelt, of Asheville, spent last week here with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Major and Mrs. Hearn gave a delightful Valentine party on February 14. Capt. Sam Black of the Hi team is recovering after an operation on his tonsils last week. The Book Lover's Club had an opening meeting last Wednesday at Mrs. Lingle’s, Dr. W. T. Grenfell, of Labrador, being the principal speaker. Little John Douglas is confined at his home.

A train of four cars, painted a battleship gray, each car having a side door, and four small windows near the top, on each side—many were the conjectures made by the village “cracker barrel and mackerel kit” population, but no one was sure of his guess as to what was the mission of this strange and hostile train. However, as the awe-struck mob stood about the train, a long drawn-out, grating creak was heard and all turned toward it to see a door slide slowly open. From the attitudes of the members of the crowd, it looked as if they wanted to run but were uncertain in just what direction. Fortunately, at this moment a tall, lanky raw-boned youth stood in the open doorway and one of the bolder ones in the crowd asked him, with Mid-Victorian deference, what the mission of the strange train was. He slowly yawned and stretched, then said, “We come to paint this here station o’ yourn.” Whereupon a great sigh of relief went up from the mob and it fell to gesturing and jabbering excitedly. Then followed the days when many and varied buckets of paint were brought out and the “swish-swish” of the brushes could be heard from morning till night as the followers of Michael Angelo busily wielded their brushes. The first coat having been applied by the painters, signs were brought from the depths of the cars and prominently displayed, reading “Fresh Paint.” But unobservants, not noticing this, the second coat was applied in the form of the overcoat of a freshman as he leaned against the station, awaiting an incoming train. Then followed a fourth and fifth coat and soon the ranks of the unfortunates who had unwittingly leaned against the fresh paint included many upper-classmen and grave and dignified members of the faculty. There were so many of these that were wearing overcoats of a somber hue in front but having backs of a gaudy yellow that passers-through thought that Davidson had become a center of style and the dictators had declared this to be the latest style of fashionably dressed gentlemen. After it all though, the station stood out in its dull surroundings a glistening thing of beauty and it seemed to lift its head and declare itself an aristocrat in plebeian surroundings. The villagers do not deny it this pleasure and the whole town is proud of the freshly painted station.

SOMETHING FOR NOTHING?

That is evidently what twelve illustrious seniors thought last Wednesday when they flocked to the Standard of the Standard Education Society. Perhaps it was not the fact that they hoped to receive something free gratis which drew them, so much as the one who was...To do the giving. For verily, verily, as Biblical Okey Allison is wont to say, the company which in the midst of present tightness and hard times, has started on a campaign of generosity acted very wisely when they sent one of the gentler sex to act as their representative. The future educators of the country met in council and she of the glib tongue did come among them. Frank Wildman claims that he thought she was going to give away pamphlets on how to flunk more students. After the learned savants had gathered, the very demure young lady proceeded to present her plan. Her first announcement was full of hope for she claimed that she was going to give each and every one present there, a ten-volume reference work. Then indeed was great rejoicing in the group, which lasted until the wary Twick Bostick, whose sinister purpose to teach no one had ever before been suspected, suspecting that there must be some strings tied to the proposition, demanded if he would have to buy anything. Twick’s forethought evidently saved the crowd for it is said that Buddy Hines and Johnny Adams were already matching to see which would sign first.

D. often returned for visits. He was pastor of the Milton Church at three different times. During his boyhood, he was a student of Caldwell Institute at Hillsboro. For two years he was a student at Hampden-Sidney College, entering the sophomore class in 1852. He was a member of Zeta chapter of Beta Theta Pi and represented the Phi Society at the 1854 commencement. His alma mater conferred upon him the honorary degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1879, having spent three years at Union Theological Seminary. He was licensed by the Presbytery in April, and in July of the following year...

JAYBIRDSVILLE STATION RECENTLY PAINTED

The little town of Davidson was pursuing unmolested its usual hum-drum, uneventful, sleepy course when a strange and hostile train came puffing into town, with much snorting and protesting, and at an hour when no regular trains run. The fact that anything so strange as a train coming in at an unusual hour was enough to make the villagers gather 'round, but the strange appearance of the train hastened the gathering of the curious all the more, and soon a gaping crowd had...

Then the awful blow fell. That nice little ten-volume, eighty-five dollar set had, not a string, but a big healthy cable, attached to it. After Twick’s question, the lady calmly stated, in a line which equalled Ikey Morris's for glibness, that each one who received the set would have to sign up to purchase a semi-annual supplement which was being sold at the heart-rendingly low price of only forty-nine dollars. Even after this blow had passed and Dunbar Ogden had been restored to consciousness after hitting the floor for a count of ten, these future flunkers came very near giving in to her line and only through the considerateness of one, the bell-ringer, were they saved from financial disaster.

NATIONALLY KNOWN ORATORS (Continued from page 1)

The class is trying to inaugurate the custom of having the members of the faculty wear the cap and gown. Some members of the faculty hold high degrees and it is felt that to have the faculty wear these symbols of honor will add to the impressiveness of the graduating ceremonies. The Class of ’23 has throughout its college course put on excellent programs in whatever of the public exercises it has had charge of, and the class can be counted on to make the Commencement Exercises a splendid climax to its fine list of accomplishments.

COLORED TROUPE FURNISHES (Continued from Page 1)

Special mention should be made also of “Couldn’t Hear Nobody Pray,” and “Ezekiel Saw the Wheel.” The orchestra was at its best in “Carolina in the Morning,” which brought a storm of applause. It was simply jazz run riot. They also gave several selections from the negro musical comedy, “Shuffle Along.” “Love is Like a Bubble,” by the former member of the quintet mentioned above, was one of their best numbers. It would be hard to pick out any special members of the quintet as being better than the others. They were all good but the two extremes were perhaps the best of all. The bass could go to the sub-cellar and the tenor could get way up on top of the house. As someone put it, “That bass can sing in my quartet any time he wants to.”

STUDENT BODY VOTES TO UPHOLD (Continued from Page 1)

Add 25 cents to the regular campus fees to be used for debating purposes. At a meeting of the student body on February 4, both propositions were presented by Prof. A. Currie. He stated that in former years Davidson College had been known all over the South for its debating teams, and that in Atlanta, especially, it had made the reputation of having one of the best, if not the best, debating team in the United States. He also stated that although forensic activities had suffered a slump in the past few years, colleges and schools all over the country were reviving the debating team and literary society. Davidson has two of the oldest literary societies in the entire South, which have turned out some of the nation’s leaders in religious and political circles. The athletic activities threatened to eclipse the societies but in the last two years, the Eus and the Phis have begotten the Pans and the Metros, and the art of public speaking is daily drilled into the freshmen by a member of the faculty. The enthusiastic support given the debaters bids well for a series of victories in the spring, and there is no excuse for lack of success in the years to come since debating has become a college activity, encouraged and supported by the faculty and student body.

DR. GRENFELL’S EXPERIENCES (Continued from Page 1)

So great has the reputation of the work of Doctor Grenfell become that many volunteers come to him every summer from the colleges and universities of the United States. These workers pay their own way and help to care for the greatly increased work of the summer months. There was one girls’ school which outfitted a motor boat and sent a score or more of girls to aid Doctor Grenfell. Many of the volunteer assistants are Harvard and Princeton men. Doctor Grenfell has had many exciting experiences but only recounted one of them to the audience. He told of how he fell into the Arctic and clambered upon a small cake of ice, together with two of his dogs. The only way in which he was able to live was by stabbing his dogs, clothing himself in their furs and quenching his thirst by drinking their blood. Finally, after making an improvised flag, he was seen and rescued. Doctor Grenfell has also had many experiences as an explorer. He says that there are literally hundreds of miles which have not yet been explored. He narrated a trip of his own up an unknown river and told of the many interesting things which he saw. The principal discovery was a waterfall several times as high as Niagara. Doctor Grenfell is now working on a geodetic survey for the British government. Before starting his lecture proper, Doctor Grenfell, who is a British subject, expressed great regret that the United States failed to join the League of Nations, which had its conception in the mind of our President. He said that it was the hope of the British nation, and indeed of the whole world, that this nation would soon see its way clear to join the league and so insure the peace of the world. Doctor Grenfell was introduced by Doctor Lingle, who paid a graceful tribute to the work of this great missionary, explorer, author, sea captain and scientist. In the last few years Doctor Grenfell has received great recognition and honor from various governments and universities. He was appointed as a member of the Order of Saint Michael and Saint George by the King of England. He received the only honorary M.D. ever granted by Oxford. He is a member of all the important scientific societies of two continents and is the holder of many honorary degrees. While here he autographed several of his own books which are in the college library.

VICTROLAS New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE People’s Home Furnishing Co. MOORESVILLE, N. C.

PUBLIC SALES

We have purchased 122,000 pair U.S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 5½ to 12 which was the entire surplus stock of one of the largest U.S. Government shoe contractors. This shoe is guaranteed one hundred percent solid leather, color dark tan, bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof. The actual value of this shoe is $6.00. Owing to this tremendous buy we can offer same to the public at $2.95. Send correct size. Pay postman on delivery or send money order. If shoes are not as represented we will cheerfully refund your money promptly upon request. National Bay State Shoe Company 296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N.Y.

Electrik Maid BREAD PIES---CAKES---BUNS “Taste the Difference” Electrik Maid Bake Shop MOORESVILLE, N.C.