Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1923

Friday and Saturday
“The Real Leip SIZ”

Historical characters we love:
1. J. Caesar—He took 32 cuts before he was busted out.
2. Nero—He was a hot violinist.
3. Anthony—He turned a wicked brute into a hot dog.
4. Marie Antoinette—She lost her head.

A Real High Class Entertainment

——NEXT WEEK——

Monday—Tuesday
“The Blue Rose”
Featuring Red Walkers
The Dancing Fool
Jack Penewell

“I’ll never take another drop,” said the drunk as he fell off the skyscraper.

If this space on which I write,
Were bare and blank, the same pure white;
It was before I touched it first,
Would you have known it was?

One of the fair set, a recent visitor on the Hill, while out walking with Johnnie Backman remarked exuberantly that she had been to three balls this week and Johnnie wanted to know if she saw anything of his watch.

If a fellow calls on his girl in a thunder-shower could you call him a rainbow?

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes

Act the Seventh

Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of '26, who constantly craves information. It is our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Mas—Say boys listen to this, lend me your ears—
Like the noses need their powder,
Like the baby needs a knee;
Like a Thomas needs a Jerry—
Like the fishes need the sea;
That’s how I need thee.

Bill—That’s NOT how we need you, that is your eternal poems.

The others—Yea indeed.

Bill—Speaking about needs though I do need a pair of shoes.

Mac—Buy ’em then.

Bill—Put up the dope then.

Mac—You don’t know which end’s up.

Bill—The other end.

Mac—Be that as it may I would advise you to get a good one when you do.

Bill—For instance?

Mac—An Edwin Clapp from Mellon’s—they’ll cost a bit more but they more than make up for it with extra wear.

The others—Do even as he spake.

Bill—I will. (Adv.)

(To be continued next week).

Fresh Appelby.—“How can you tell the difference between a prof. and student?”

Joe Baldwin.—“Well, I would hate to express any opinion. But what is it?”

Appelby.—“Well, if there were only two in a lecture room and one of them was asleep, the other one would be the professor.”

W. P. Brown.—“I sent a quarter to a fellow who advertised to tell you how to take out wrinkles in...

---the face.” 

Julius Barr.—“And did he tell you?” 

W. P. Brown.—“He did. He said, ‘Walk out in the open air at least once a day and the wrinkles will go out with you.’”

FOR SALE.—One bed or will exchange for lantern or flashlight. Have changed my course and taken up Organic Chemistry. Emilio Bosch.

Had You Ever Stopped to Think?
1. You can always draw queens if you have the jack.
2. With increased use of automobiles, the manufacturers of front porches are hard pushed.
3. Of the dumbbell girl that went into the bank and asked for a checkbook for a lady that folds up in the middle?

In Biology I—“The class will now name some of the lower species of animals, starting with Mr. Giltner.”

Bob Gordon:—“Look here Bob, this picture makes me look like a monkey!”
Bob McLeod:—“You should have thought about that before you had the picture taken.”

Hugh Bradley:—“Heard the new golf song: ‘I Drove My Ball in the Water Hole?’”
R. M. Brice:—“No!”
Hugh Bradley:—“It isn’t out yet!”

Graves Roberts says where he comes from men are so hard they ride a porcupine through a bed of cactus and never get a scratch.

The Seven Ages of Woman:
Safety-pins.
Whip-pins.
Hair pins.
Fraternity pins.
Diamond pins.
Clothes pins.
Rolling pins.

Kissing a girl is like opening a bottle of olives—if you can get one, the rest come easy.

Prof. in English I—“Who was the Duke of Peruna?”
B. A. Mitchell—“Lydia Pinkham’s husband.”

Neal Currie, (Asst. in Chemistry Lab.)—“A fool can ask more questions than a wise man can answer.”
Fresh Matheson:—“That’s why we all flunked.”

Did you hear about the absent-minded professor last week who thought he had left his watch at home and then took it out to see if he had time to go back and get it?

They sat on the porch at midnight,
And their lips were tightly pressed;
The old man gave the signal—
And the bulldog did the rest.

Prof. in Greek VI.—“Mr. Brawley, who was Homer?”
Jim Brawley:—“The guy Babe Ruth made famous.”

An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest—Franklin.
All wickedness is weakness.—Milton.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Scotch Grain

THE only extreme feature in all the length and breadth of John Ward Shoes is their extremely fair price. Their styles are conservative, as college men would have them, and distinguished by a quality of splendid workmanship. Inspect them for yourself. The John Ward representative displays in 106 West March 23 and 24.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT.
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

After Every Meal
well, then use WRIGLEY’S to aid digestion. It also keeps the teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen.
The Great American Sweetmeat

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
PIANOS
CHARLOTTE