4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

NUT SUNDAES

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
D. INS

First Managing Editor
W. M. O.

Second Managing Editor
R. R. JONES

Assignment Editor
F. WILDMAN

Exchange Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD, Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY, Assistant Manager
BARRINGTON, C. MINTER, J. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, B. V. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER, Business Manager
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. E. WEEKS, and W. G. GUILLE, Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN, Office Assistant
E. J. BOSCH, Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN, Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON, Asst. Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
McILWAINE, C. M.
PRICE, R. L.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
McIVER, D. D.
SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
MAUZE, G. W.
WALTHALL, D. B.
ALLISON, O. J.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WHARTON, D. B.
ROW, MAR
GALLOWAY, W. F.
POMEROY, W. L.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
LAKE, J. A.
PRICE, H. B.

Davidson students always hear Dr. Henry Louis Smith with the greatest pleasure, and his talks to us never have failed
to be most interesting and profitable. If anything, his literary address at the installation of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson
excelled even our high expectations. The dramatic and gripping, yet realistic pictures that he gave us of present-day situations cannot
fail to make a lasting impression upon our memories and our actions.

Stop Making Excuses

The weakness of the majority of men today lies in their ability to deceive themselves by excuses. Many of us
are slaves to circumstances. We allow the smallest happenings and the most trivial events to interfere with our performance of
duty. Excuse making is among the worst of all bad habits. It grows upon us with a certain deadliness and
twines in and out the very framework of our characters, weakening the purpose of our lives and decaying the very
structure of our souls. We have all fallen prey to the moss-backed excuse of “didn’t have time.” How easy it
is to cover up our laziness or procrastination with this old worn-out, weak-kneed apology. We all have the same amount
of time. You can always look around and see someone who is doing a great deal more than we are
doing and still we have the face to say that we didn’t have time. So it is with all excuses
that we give to ourselves daily for the neglect of our work or for our failure to do that which
we ought to do. Excuses are an admission of weakness. Fellows, don't allow yourselves to fall a victim to this
habit. Do your work as it should be done and do it at the right time or take your medicine
like a man. Don't whine around and admit that circumstances have whipped you.

—PHILOSOPHOS.

Why Not?

Honor is something in the make-up of every man that causes him to stand up for principles related to his
virtue. The insulted man fights for it; the successful businessman works diligently to prevent blemishes from staining it. Needless to
say, the honor system is a success and a blessing here at Davidson as it is elsewhere where it is
in force. It trains men for higher ideals, ideals which manifest themselves by gentlemanly conduct and behavior other than the
specific items to which the honor is expressly applied. It is therefore contended that other college activities can be successfully
controlled if the student is made to feel that such activities are laid to his honor. Church-going is the next
thing that should be controlled by the honor system. It has been seen that the ruling regarding the seniors in
this matter has been successful. The same

PHI BETA KAPPA

AFTER years of patient and untiring effort on the part of a number of the faculty, Davidson was on March
1, the proud recipient of the charter for a chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa Society, the Gamma chapter of
North Carolina. Both in the public and private exercises of the installation, it was brought out clearly how fortunate we
may consider ourselves at Davidson College. Chapters of this society are nation-wide, but exist in only about twenty percent of
the colleges and universities in the United States. The granting of a chapter to any school, coming as it does
only after a thorough investigation of every phase of the institution’s work, is a distinct honor. President Chase of the
University of North Carolina very fittingly showed the place that scholarship should hold in our undergraduate college life, and the
rewards that come to such endeavor as seen in the eminent positions that members of the Phi Beta Kappa Society
hold at present.

ELECTIONS COMING

ABOUT this time every spring it becomes necessary for each member of the student body to exercise his voting power
in electing student body officers, class officers, student councilmen, and filling positions of The Davidsonian, Athletic Associations, and other similar
organizations. Serious thought is necessary to make a man realize what an opportunity and privilege he has, and yet remember
that a great responsibility is his in having these places filled. Always, therefore, attempts of various kinds are made to
bring these facts to the attention of all. An article has appeared in the Open Forum of The Davidsonian, pointing
out the value of brains, or ability to think straight, on the part of the men we elect. In a
number of ways, it was clearly shown then, that the men we want to fill our offices are not simply
the men who have gained popularity because of attainments that in no way fit them for places of influence in
the student body. We want the men who during their three years here have always been known to stand for
what is right, men who can be depended upon in difficult situations and under trying circumstances.

A number of men take the position at elections that their vote does not count among so many; they are
in a hurry probably to leave chapel, perhaps they have no paper or pencils, and so often they leave an
election without casting a vote for anyone at all. Of course, such an attitude as this should never be allowed
to take hold of a man. Everyone is just as much a part of, has just as much power, and
should take just as much interest in the student body as anyone else should. Until we all do realize this
clearly, and all try to cast our votes properly, we can never hope to have the student body run by
the proper officers and in the proper way. Then there is a further consideration involved. The men we elect will
hold their positions for the next college year. They have to have the wholehearted support of at least a majority
of the student body in order to carry out their plans and accomplish anything of value. For that reason, it
is practically necessary that they be elected by a majority of all the students, not a majority of the few
voting, with a large number who always oppose whatever is later done. Often those doing the kicking had not taken
enough interest in who was to vote at all. At Davidson, we have been fortunate in having little of this,
with political organizations trying to swing votes to men who don’t deserve them. The duty rests with every student to
vote, and to vote as he should, in order to ensure the election of the proper men in the coming
elections.Respect to this honor and obedience to its principle will likewise manifest itself in the three lower classes. Church-going will
be made pleasanter and more homelike if the students are at liberty to go any time of the day, either
here or wherever they might be. Where a student feels it is his honor to go or report himself, he
will make it more strictly a part of his weekly routine than when he is at home. It is contrary
to human nature to enjoy an event under compulsion. Resorting to the honor system, though only nominally abrogating the ruling,
will render the church services more enjoyable, and a better place for individual worship.

E. PLURIBUS UNUM.

HUGH SMITH DELEGATE TO ODK CONVENTION

Hugh Smith, representing ODK, and accompanied by Albert Hillhouse, were present at the annual convention of ODK, held at the
University of Richmond, Va., February 16 and 17. These two Davidsonians were entertained royally and report a successful meeting. On
the first day, an automobile ride was given, taking in points of historical interest of which there are many in
Richmond. A dance was given Friday evening at the Country Club in honor of the guests. The business session began
Saturday, February 17, at 9 o'clock with a welcome address by Doctor Boatwright, president of the university. Following this reunion,
the convention adjourned for lunch at the university cafeteria. During the lunch hour, the delegates were shown points of interest
on the campus. The evening reunion lasted until 6:30 o'clock, when the meeting adjourned to enjoy a smoker given at
the Richmond Hotel, which closed the convention. Smith and Hillhouse stayed at the seminary during their short visit and had
the pleasure of meeting many old Davidson men there. On Sunday, Smith and Hillhouse stayed in Washington, D.C., going to
Annapolis and Baltimore on Monday. While in Baltimore, they visited Johns Hopkins, where they were shown around by Junebug Price,
'22, who is studying medicine at that institution.

A box will be placed in front of the Library for the purpose of securing funds to allow Wood-Up Smith,
Bill Glenn, and W. A. Patterson the pleasure of knowing how it feels to have one’s hair cut. All students
are urged to contribute to this worthy cause.

Prof.—Mr. Biddle, what is the origin of the word Climax?
Biddle—Chewing tobacco.

A woodpecker pecks out a great many specks of sawdust when building a hut. He works like a nigger to
make the hole bigger. He is sore if his cutter won't cut. He doesn't bother with plans of cheap artisans,
but there is one thing that can rightly be said: The whole excavation has this explanation—He builds it.

Someone in English IV review the other day read the question, “Give the rimes of the Chant Royal,” and asked,
“Is that the way to spell rhymes?” To which Jerry Fenton replied, “Oh, he means watermelon rinds.”

Those on the sick list for the past week include T. B. Thompson, J. A. Lake, T. F. Barron, H.
Y. Alexander, F. R. Hudson, and J. M. Appleby.

Pat Crawford on English V, giving his class the benefit of the introduction to his latest short story, read the
following sentence: “Next morning Pietro was shot at sunset.”

It would be a great world if people put as much faith in a man as a woman puts in
a safety pin.

The professor on Fresh Math had been explaining the Functions of Zero to the class. It took Tom Taylor quite
a while to get the drift. After continued explanation, Tom remarked, “We had more trouble with nothing (zero) than we
did with the whole first chapter.” To which the professor replied, “I would have thought you were well acquainted with
that already.”

The Greatest Things
The greatest sin—fear.
The best day—today.
The biggest fool—the girl or boy who will not go to school.
The greatest deceiver—one who deceives himself.
The most beautiful woman—the one you love.
The greatest mistake—giving up.
The most expensive indulgence—hate.
The cheapest, stupidest, and easiest thing to do—finding fault.
The greatest trouble maker—talking too much.
The worst bankrupt—the soul that has lost its enthusiasm.
The cleverest man—one who always does what he thinks is right.
The best teacher—one who makes you want to learn.
The best part of anyone's religion—gentleness and cheerfulness.
The meanest feeling—jealousy.
The most important training—training in democracy.
The greatest need—common sense.
The best gift—forgiveness.
—By Dr. Frank Crane.

Bill Heston says the reason he was named Bill was because he was born on the first of the month.

“Is this a second-hand store?”
“Yessum.”
“Well, I want one for my watch.”

Count Davis, on seeing what happened in the movies to the horse Bountiful, became frightened, for supper at his boarding
house Saturday night consisted principally of apples and water. No wonder he was worried.

She—Do you love me still?
He—I do, but you seldom are.

Rastus—Liza, will you go ridin’ in mah Ford?
Liza—I won't do nothing else.
Rastus—Then you can’t ride in mah Ford.
—Awgwan.

“By Jove” Rogers says that it is a sad thought, but one wearies even of praise.

Anyone desiring to get a concrete idea of the ruins of Belgium has only to visit our campus.

Davidson College possesses some wonderfully unique art galleries, museums, etc. If you haven't taken cognizance of this fact previously, you
should by all means visit John Simpson’s gallery of favorite movie stars; Chink Woods’ exhibition of S. G. Phillips’ paintings;
Finn, Scott & Co.’s museum of ancient and extinct musical instruments; Gordon and Brown’s gymnasium of boxing and fencing; Gettys
Guille’s School of Riding and Horsemanship.

First Girl—I love Garber-Davis.
Second Girl—Give me Weidermyer every time.
Third Girl (The country cousin)—We’ve always gotten better satisfaction dealing with Sears-Roebuck. They are so prompt.
—Boll Weevil.

He—If I had known that tunnel was so long, I would have kissed you.
She—Good heavens, wasn’t that you?
—Sandspur.

Judging from the noise of clanking horseshoes, it would seem that members of the student body are attempting to wring
the last bit of enjoyment out of the spring weather.

Unconfirmed reports say an African lion swallowed a flivver a few weeks ago. He forgot to shut off the engine,
however, and shook to death in fifteen minutes.
—N.Y. Globe.

Bill Bogart, ex-24, who is now a student at N.C. State, spent the weekend on the Hill.

Gushing Lady—I think Reverend Taylor is just wonderful. He brings home to you things that you never saw before.
Cadet—He hasn't got a thing on that laundry up at college.

Rube Curtis visited friends and relatives in Greenville, S.C., during the past weekend.
