THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923.

20c & 35c PICTURES
VAUDEVILLE
Night 7:30-9
ALHAMBRA
“Always the Best for Less”
10c & 25c
COMEDY MUSICAL
Matinee 3:30

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief. Over
17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe.

Dad’s old leather wallet.

And comes, on summons, to the floor? The jaunty, jolly Sophomore.
Who has the time of his young life, steeped in the college life and lore, whose memories cling forevermore? The
apt, absorbent Sophomore.
Who is it, then, we toast tonight, whose virtues laud, whose faults ignore, on whose brave band our plaudits pour?
The valiant Sophomore.

By BILL HESTON

The Peanut Parcher, after interviewing all the important millionaires in the U.S., offers the following principles which will make any
man who observes them a millionaire:
1. Arise at 6 o'clock every morning.
2. Take a cold shower.
3. Pay all debts promptly.
4. Take exercise.
5. Have an uncle die somewhere and bequeath you a million dollars.

Prof. (in class)—What have you prepared for today?
John Simpson—For the worst.

Ted Jones has just finished composing a new song hit for Ben Turpin entitled “East is West.” Another one of
his latest hits is “I Ordered Nails and In-come Tax.”

George McCutcheon (to druggist)—Can you recommend something to keep my hair in?
Druggist—Why, most any kind of a candy or cigar box would do.

It isn’t wise to tell everything you know, but some people can’t help it if they talk at all.

The invitation offered by the pastor last Sunday to those “behind the scenes” was greeted with a rising enthusiasm.

Prof.—Are college professors classed as agents or servants, Mr. Leonard?
Jake—They ought to be classified as slaves, Doctor.

“Button, button, who’s got the button?” seems to be the favorite game down at our laundry.

Jack Austin—You know, last year the doctor told me if I didn’t stop smoking I'd be feebleminded.
Shorty Howell—Why didn’t you stop?

WHY “FOR”?
Hurd—Wotcha gonna do this summer?
Price—Work for my dad.
Hurd—You used an extra word.

Prof—Your themes should be written so that even the most stupid of people can understand them.
Walthall (humbly)—Yes sir. Don’t you understand, sir?

Soph—What makes the light so pale?
Fresh—Oh, it was out all night.

Heard at the Elon game—
He (excitedly)—Hooray! We have a man on every base!
Fair Partner—That’s nothing, so have they.

“Izzy, darling, you do believe me when I tell you that you’re the first man I ever kissed, don’t you?”
“Yes, honey, I believe you.”
“But, Izzy, do you shave yourself?”
“Sure.”
“I thought so, it’s the roughest—”
And now poor Izzy Thames is wondering why she stopped so suddenly.

“I certainly am absorbing a lot of knowledge,” murmured the student as he erased the algebra problem from the blackboard.

Prof. (in class)—Order! Order!
Watt McCain (just awakening)—Make it ham and eggs.

Mason Field—I’m from Bermuda.
Jack Miller—You look big and strong.

Prize Bone
This week’s prize bone—Wigg’s Bradford nominates the student body president-elect to serve on next year’s student council.

“The skin you love to touch” is often But you, oh valiant Sophomore.

Davidson’s Forensic Artists Oppose Methodists Tonight
(Continued from Page 1.)

Dave Bethea—Do you play on the piano, Izzy?
Izzy Thames—I used to but I’ve stopped now.
Dave—Why?
Izzy—They were afraid I’d...

Every day, in every way, jokes about Coue are growing monotonouser and monotonouser.

No, Reginald, railroad ties aren’t sold by the...

Someone told us that a lipstick is simply an invention that adds a new flavor to an old pastime. More
truth than poetry.

The Wildcat team will defend the negative of this subject. The team has been working hard on the debate ever
since the preliminaries, which were held about a month ago. The subject, one of the most interesting ever chosen, has
been well worked over by the debaters with the assistance of Professor Wagner. An interesting feature of preparation was carried
out in a skirmish debate with three Davidson men upholding Trinity’s side of the question. In this manner, Professor Wagner
and several other members of the faculty were enabled to discover the weak points of the Davidson side and to
show the remedy for them. The order of the speakers...will be: Elkins, Tubby Woolfolk—I feel as if I’ve just Hillhouse,
Cox. The first two men are from had a drink out of a fire extinguisher. the Eumenean Society, while Cox
is a Pan- Fair damsel—You look somewhat put out. deinic. All three of the men are members of the Junior
Class and have been prominent It seems as if several of our students are in Davidson forensic circles since their
attempting to become perfect ladies. Among freshman year. Elkins and Cox are pres- them: Ed Brown, Gibson, Fitts, Shorty idents
of their respective societies and have Howell, John Laws, and Piggy Martin. won several medals. Hillhouse also has a good
society record. Izzy—I had to fall off and hurt myself. clothing stores. As the poets say: Some are born great,
Some achieve greatness, While some grate upon us. According to the record, this is the first time that Davidson has
ever met Trinity in an intercollegiate debate. However, for many years the rivals have met each other in various intercollegiate
contests. So far this year most of the athletic events have gone to Trinity, but the Wildcat debating squadron is
determined to secure revenge on Friday night. The following was overheard during one of the recent games on Sprunt Field.
Fair damsel—I don’t understand baseball, do you? Second Maiden—Why, you don’t have to understand it. Everything is decided by a
man they call the vampire. ECHOES OF SOPHDOM Trinity has had several debates this year but the only one of
which the results could be obtained was that with New York University, in which Trinity was defeated by a unanimous
decision. However, according to word from Durham, the Methodists are sending their best team against the Red and Black and
a first-rate example of the art of debating is sure to result. The smoke having cleared away from Trawick’s cigar,
one of those Non-Skid knock-out kinds which requires at least two hands to hold it up, “it behooves us” to
look back over the good old time and keep the old spirit of ‘Twenty-Five going. To some, it is a
painful remembrance, for Mr. Thompson is not at all fond of refrigerator checks, but to the rest, it was truly
a knock-out banquet. Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C. WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS Who is it,
when the books are kept, With sweetest words that e’er were Takes all his cuts and then one more, penned,
What girl at last will prove your friend, And stick right with you to the end? Your sister. J. A.C.
Home Made Potato Chips Orders Taken For Parties, Feeds, Etc. Served At All Times. MISS MINNIE’S COOPER—PARLOR WEST Merchants and
Farmers National Bank CHARLOTTE, N. C After Every Meal WRIGLEY’S Chew your food well, then use WRIGLEY’S to aid digestion.
It also keeps the teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen. The Great American Sweetmeat Everything flowed freely at the good
old feed, except of course Volstead’s pet hobby, but the main thing of course was Bull. Even Bevo Davis dropped
in to give the rising Juniors some advice but after he was prevailed on to have something to eat he
forgot all about his speech. Talking about echoes though, Dr. Porter surely gave old Twenty-Five a rouse when he speeled
off his Animadversions of '25. PRESCRIPTIONS Who moves through D. C.’s classic halls, Rich legacied from days of yore, Bright
futured as no class before? The brilliant, brainy Sophomore. Whose wisdom quite outstrips his years, (His lack of years he
counts a bore) For he knows that two and two make four? The canny, cautious Sophomore. Who knows the sum
of x plus y, Differentiates twixt seed and spore, REGISTERED PHARMACISTS We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles WHITE DRUG COMPANY COMPOUNDED BY Translates, “Merci, beaucoup encore”? The learned, lettered Sophomore. Who counts himself the Fresh’s
friend, Hands down the cap which once he wore, And doles him bits from Wisdom’s store? The sapient, seasoned Sophomore.
VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS Who looks with certain well-born scorn, On the high-brow class of ’24, The high-brow stuff he doth
deplore? The modest, manly Sophomore. Who is it, when he walks abroad, The beauteous flappers all adore, Who counts his
conquests by the score? The gay and gallant Sophomore? Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT 16 W. Trade St. Who is it
on the field of sport Recks not of broken bones nor gore, Achieving victories galore? The snappy, scrappy Sophomore. PIANOS
CHARLOTTE
