THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

ALUMNI NEWS

J. H. Gentry, ’13, is connected with the public schools at Statesville.

Judge James E. Boyd, ex-'66, Federal Judge for the Eastern North Carolina district, recently celebrated his 78th birthday. Judge Boyd
was admitted to the bar in 1868, and has been on the bench since 1900. He has been elected to
the general assembly twice; was Federal district attorney for five years, and was assistant attorney general of the United States
from 1897 to 1900.

Dr. William Franklin Faison, '86, a successful physician and a prominent surgeon of New Jersey, died at Jersey City on
February 23. Before going North, Dr. Faison was in charge of the North Carolina Asylum for Colored People. He was
the father of J. B. Faison, ex-'17.

H. A. Query, ’09, is Editor of the Gastonia Daily Gazette, Gastonia, N. C.

Lawson-Barksdale
The wedding of Miss Elizabeth Barksdale to William D. Lawson, ’18, took place at the Church of the Nativity, in
Greenwood, Miss., on February 9, 1923. Among the attendants were W. M. Fountain, '18; W. G. Humphrey, ’18, and N.
W. Fountain, ex-’19.

Earle M. Alexander, '20, was married to Miss Alice Raynor, of Lexington, Mass., on February 18, 1923.

An Interesting Letter
To the Class of 1918.

Dear Fellow Classmen:

At this time I recall that the class of 1918 at its Senior Banquet planned for a reunion during the
commencement of 1923. I recall that a committee consisting of Hugh Gray (chairman), Jamie Fowle and William Cumming was appointed
for the arrangement of details for this reunion. Is it not time that this committee should function?

Recently a letter came to me from Russell Woods, who is in Richmond. He is making plans to return for
the reunion. We want the largest class reunion that has been held on the Davidson Campus. I have been unable
to secure the addresses of all members of the class, hence I am taking this means of reaching you. I
trust that my duties shall not prevent my being present. We have just launched a campaign in this state for
funds for Arkansas College. This campaign will not close until the first week in June. Our commencement will be June
sixth. It will be necessary for me to remain through this exercise here. I must reach Chicago University by June
eighteenth. However, if I can possibly get off the details of my work here in time for Davidson's commencement without
conflicting with my Chicago date you may rest assured that I am planning to be on hand for the reunion
of the best class that has left the walls of Davidson. This is truly to be a happy occasion—one that
will mark a milestone in the path of life for each of our number. As president of the class of
1918, let me urge you to attend this reunion. Davidson has four representatives on the faculty of Arkansas College. Besides
myself there are Professors Timmons, Frierson—an uncle of William Frierson, '18, and McArn. Dr. Watkins—a local minister—is also a Davidson
graduate. Write me your plans and wishes concerning our reunion. Let Hugh Gray know your address and plans also. With
the best powers within us let us make this a grand occasion.

Faithfully yours in old '18,
JNO. B. HOFFIN,
Professor of Chemistry.

Johnson-McClure
Rev. Norman Johnson, '15, and Miss Mary M. McClure, of Greenville, Va., were married on February 28 at Bethel Church
in Augusta County, Va. Mr. Johnson is at present pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Blacksburg, Va. A large number
of Davidson and Union Seminary men were present at the wedding. The ceremony was performed by Rev. Herbert S. Turner,
'13, pastor of Bethel Church, assisted by Rev. R. A. Lapsley, D. D., ’84. The bridegroom was attended by Rev.
A. Ray Howland, ’15, of Atlanta, as best man, and by Rev. Frank W. Price, ’15, and Rev. Fred S.
McCorkle, Union Sem, ’19. Rev. T. P. Johnston, '14, of Christiansburg, Va., was one of the ushers.

C. E. Rankin, '17, and Mrs. Rankin are studying this winter at Teachers’ College, New York. Their address is 509
W. 121st Street.

Rev. E. H. Hamilton, ’17, has gone to Greensboro, N. C., to assist Rev. Wade C. Smith in “The Church
by the Side of the Road.”

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORS DISCUSS TRUTHFULNESS
The plan of a model prayer meeting of Christian Endeavor was followed by J. M. Garrison, leader of the Christian
Endeavor Training Class last Sunday. The topic used was the one for February 25, which was, “Truth Telling.” Talks were
made by several members. A. B. Williford talked on the subject, “How Do Christian Endeavor Societies Help Us to Be
Truth Lovers?” He brought out the fact that the example of Christ must be followed as nearly as possible in
order that one may be a lover of truth. He also stated that our lives must be shining examples of
truth to others. J. L. McLean spoke on “How Can We Overcome the Temptations of Life?” In answer to this
he said that a deep spiritual life must be followed. He mentioned some of the facts brought out by Doctor
Richards in his sermon that morning. He said that one must go to the Bible for examples of “Thus saith
the Lord.” Temptation comes to anyone through selfish motives, and the only way to clear ourselves of these selfish motives
is to live a deep, spiritual life. F. O'Connor spoke on “The World-Wide Value of Truth.” He touched upon the
truthfulness of a nation and of an individual under three heads, truthfulness to God, to ideals and to fellowmen. He
stated that it is universally human for a man to honor truth. L. L. Deck gave a picture of a
store in India where every member of a family has an interest, and they all have an individual lock on
the safe because each are afraid that another member of the family will take a part of his money. The
meeting was thrown open for discussion and B. U. Ratchford mentioned Benjamin Franklin's policy of honesty being the best policy.
There is no way to measure the amount of harm done by one little bit of untruthfulness.

WINDOW WEIGHTS WORK WONDERS FOR KIMSEY
Perseverance to the end will always tell, is an old saying which is applicable to Pat Kimsey. When Davidson's wrestling
team was completely swamped by Trinity last week Pat was the sole survivor of the disaster. All the patent medicine
advertisers are trying their best to get this Wildcat to pose as a second Earl Leiderman and to write testimonials
for their wares. Pat hasn’t decided whether to accept an offer from the Tanlac or the Nuxated Iron people. This
hero thinks he sees a way to amass a small fortune but he says that he cannot tell a lie
as his victory is all due, not to any patent medicine, but to rigorous training, carried on every day. It
is reported that all the window weights of old Chambers are stored in his room and every night those rooming
under Pat claim that they hear weird sounds as if a terrible conflict was going on above. Possibly he tries
his methods out on Bevo, his roommate, for Bevo makes his appearance some mornings looking like the “morning after the
night before.” Every afternoon, just for a little exercise to warm up with, Pat carries Stout Montgomery on his shoulders
to Cornelius and back. Pat would make a good time-keeper for any factory, too, since he held out...For so long
in his match that the referee got tired of his job and gave the match to him. He's good at
time-keeping. In spite of all this, though, he is a good scout and Davidson should be proud of this stalwart
hero who has returned covered with glory from a disastrous affair.

GAMMA CHAPTER (Continued from Page 1)

Union Theological Seminary, were present and gave added tone to the distinguished gathering which packed the building. The first speaker
of the evening was Dr. J. M. McConnell, who gave a short history of Phi Beta Kappa as a whole,
and told of the incidents connected with the securing of the Gamma Chapter for Davidson. The organization was founded at
William and Mary College on Dec 5, 1776. It was discontinued at intervals, but each time was reorganized by former
members, being, as Doctor McConnell said, “a true case of apostolic succession.” The first two institutions into which chapters were
introduced were Harvard and Yale. Since its inception, Phi Beta Kappa has grown tremendously, until today there are 95 chapters
embracing most of the greater institutions of learning and the most famous scholars of the country. Davidson, according to Doctor
McConnell, has applied for a chapter since 1916. After recommendations had been received from the chapters of the organization at
the University of North Carolina, Washington and Lee, Johns Hopkins, and William and Mary, and after careful investigation of our
scholastic standards, the charter was finally granted. This is the third chapter to be installed in North Carolina, there being
chapters formerly established at the University and at Trinity College. Phi Beta Kappa, being entirely a scholastic organization, will take
the place of the local Mimir society, and to a large extent the Honor Roll.

The next event of the evening was the presentation of the charter to the college by Doctor Chase. He was
introduced by Doctor Martin as “our friend the enemy, President of Carolina.” Doctor Chase first announced the formation of the
Gamma Chapter at the secret session of the afternoon. He then proceeded to remove the belief that high scholastic standing
in college is not compatible with success in life by enumerating the many famous men who are members of Phi
Beta Kappa. He then read the charter, which was addressed to the members of the organization already at Davidson before
the formation of the Gamma Chapter. These were Doctors Martin, Shewmake, and Porter and Professor Wood. As a conclusion, he
officially presented the charter to Davidson College. Doctor McConnell received the charter and made the response to Doctor Chase. Prof.
W. W. Wood next read a list of the initiates of the afternoon ceremony. They were:

Foundation members (present members of the Davidson faculty): Dr. C. R. Harding, '80; Dr. W. R. Grey, '84; Dr. C.
M. Richards, '92; Prof. J. L. Douglas, '93; Dr. T. W. Lingle, '93; Dr. J. M. McConnell, '99; Prof. E.
J. Erwin, '06; Prof. O. J. Thies, '16; Dr. H. B. Arbuckle (honorary).

Alumni members: Hon. F. B. McDowell, Prof. A. C. McIntosh, '81, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill; Dr. J. P.
Munroe, '82, Charlotte; Mr. William Mack, '83, New York City; Judge W. H. Baker, '88, Jacksonville, Fla.; Prof. J. A.
Tillinghast, '91, Converse College, Spartanburg, S. C.; Dr. W. L. Lingle, president Davidson board of trustees, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond,
Va.; Mr. P. F. Henderson, '07, Aiken, S. C.; Prof. Reed Smith, '01, University of South Carolina, Columbia, S. C.;
Prof. E. D. Kerr, '04, Presbyterian Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.; Mr. S. C. Williams, '05, Winston-Salem, N. C.

Student members: R. F. Davidson, Rock Hill, S. C.; W. A. Gamble, Macon, Ga.; W. G. Guille, Athens, Tenn.; D.
H. Ogden, Mobile, Ala.; H. H. Smith, Easley, S. C.

A reception for the initiates, the visitors, and specially invited guests was held in the parlors of the library immediately
following the exercise in Shearer Hall.

TRUSTEES VOTE (Continued from Page 1)

of the sum pledged for building the annex to the church, now practically completed. Provisions were also made for improvements
on the campus, such as care of the walks, shade trees, grass, grading, and other things that require constant attention.
R. M. Miller, Chairman, and Malcolm Lockhart, director of the $600,000.00 Campaign, were present before the Board with their review
of the campaign up to date. Their report was of a highly encouraging nature and they recommended that the campaign
be continued in the confident expectation of a successful close.

Reappointments for the 1923-24 session of the college were as follows: Dr. C. M. Richards—instructor of Bible, Church History and
Christian Evidences; Prof. O. J. Thies, Jr.—assistant professor of Chemistry; Prof. L. M. Currie—assistant professor of Physics and Mathematics; Prof.
A. V. Goldiere—assistant professor of Spanish; Prof. R. H. Wagner—professor of Public Speaking; Prof. K. J. Foreman—associate professor of German
Languages and Literature; F. W. Hengeveld—registrar and secretary to the faculty. Doctor Martin was authorized, in consultation with the committee
of instruction, to employ additional instructors so far as funds might allow.

The Board authorized the establishment of the Robert Kornegay Memorial Hospital Fund of $4,000.00, given by the family of the
late Robert Kornegay, of Mt. Olive, N. C. The income of this fund is to assist in the care of
students needing medical attention. This Fund is a memorial in honor of both Robert Kornegay, Sr., and Robert Kornegay, Jr.,
the latter a graduate of Davidson and whose life purpose was to enter the medical profession.

At the request of F. L. Jackson, treasurer and business manager of the college, it was decided to divide his
duties, the two-fold duties being too much work for one man to handle. Mr. Jackson will continue to handle the
finances of the college, and the Board went on record in an expression of its appreciation of the faithful and
efficient service given by Mr. Jackson in his two-fold office of the past few years.

President Martin’s report also covered a review of the vacation months, embracing the faculty activities, a large building program, the
Young People’s Conference held here in June, improvements of various kinds on the college plant and, lastly, the details of
the fall's enrollment with figures setting forth the several classifications of the students and statistics relating to the student body
as a whole.

VICTROLA HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL"
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.

Agents Wanted
To Represent
Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company
Ocean Accident and Guaranty Company
W. E. PRICE
General Agent
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

On the Square
Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Fire insurance is considered essential to the conduct of business but many men of affairs overlook insuring that which is
behind all business, their health.
McAlister Carson, Manager
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.
