THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 18, 1923

VOLLEY BALL INITIATED AS NEW SPORT HERE

Weather in January calls the student outdoors with an irresistible invitation. Approaching exams are forgotten, books are thrown aside, and
he rushes out for a game of tennis, a round of golf, or some other kind of sport. A stranger
crossing Davidson's campus one of these bright January afternoons would be surprised at the number of students taking part in
the minor sports. As he crossed the campus, this stranger would be attracted by the sound as of a graded
school playground at recess time, and following his ears to inquire the cause of so much yelling, would come upon
a court on the south side of the campus where a crowd of 12 or 14 specimens of the genus
Wildcat, divided into two groups with a high net between, would be seen furiously battling a volley ball back and
forth across the net.

The volley ball court has only recently been laid off, but the game is fast gaining in popularity among Davidson
students. The advantages of volley ball are that it requires no equipment except a net, a ball, and two hands,
and that any number of men from four to 24 can engage in a game at once. For the enlightenment
of the uninformed, it might be well to add that volley ball is really a gymnasium game, similar in principle
to tennis. The ball, an inflated one about six inches in diameter, is served and returned with the hand instead
of a racquet. The net is eight feet high, and across this net the ball is batted back and forth
until it touches the ground, a point being lost by the side which permits the ball to touch the ground.
Fifteen such points win or lose a game.

McCONNELL AND BEAVER WIN RECENT ELECTION

At a recent meeting of the student body, Spec McConnell and Flop Beaver were officially elected as assistant cheer leaders.
At the beginning of this year these two men were appointed to hold the positions until an election was held.
In this action on the part of the students, electing them officially to the positions, is shown the appreciation of
the student body for the splendid work done by them during the past football season. The assistant cheer leaders hold
a place nearly equal to the cheer leader, because next year’s cheer leader must be elected from them. As is
the custom, both of these men are Juniors. Others who were nominated for the office were Archie Keels, J. E.
Weldon, Mickey McKay and Paul Stacy.

Spring would-be 1 Wabash (Ohio), National Collegiate champions last season, got a jolt during the holidays when they lost to
the A. A. C. on the latter’s court.

THE Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Entrance Next to SSSR RS eee ese eens

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” SPORTING GOODS Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods.
We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & ATHLETICS

The harder you're hit, the higher you bounce. Be proud of your blackened eye. It isn’t the fact that you're
beaten that counts but how did you fight—and why?

Every basketball team must have its nickname. We hereby christen the 1923 model of the Wildcat machine “The Fighting Devils.”
Live up to it, team!

It’s reported that Captain Warhoss is going into the aviation. He ought to, ’cause he’s got the whole world beat
doing the tail dive.

Pat Crawford had his tonsils removed last Saturday. Just to make a good job of it Brass yanked his adenoids
too. Old Big Boy expects to be in tip top shape by the time the schedule starts. We're looking to
you, Pat.

Have you been down to see the Wildcat mat hounds in action? It's worth the trip some afternoon just to
see Fresh Lindewood in action. Poots looks good for quite a few points this year.

How about a little class football? Everybody seems to want it, why doesn’t someone start the ball rolling?

How would THE FIGHTING DEMONS—SOUTHERN CHAMPIONS look at the top of this page? Remember Princeton's famous slogan “A team that
won’t be beaten can't be beaten,” and it will be there. The student body is backing their team this year
as they never did before. And the team appreciates it. Come down to the gym some evening about 8:15 and
watch Coach Dutch’s Kage Kids practice. You'll enjoy it and the team will appreciate your support.

Gig Shepherd wants to know if the battle of Bull Run was fought in the stock yards. Winston-Salem will always
have two things to answer for and Gig is both of them.

Now that U of Florida has an alligator for a mascot and Princeton has a tiger, why can’t we get
a wildcat?

Stars Shooting Nappy Davis. HER Eyes. Gazers. Mac Beall. Betty Compson. Boarders.

We wonder what’s happened to the rain? It must be saving up for Junior Speaking.

Do You Remember Way Back en— You took your first one up on the cupola? Them days is gone forever.

D. TROUGH IS INUNDATED BY FAMISHED WILDCATS

Prompted perhaps by the hope of getting something for nothing, crowds, indeed one might say hordes, of well-nigh famished students
have turned their weary steps toward the Trough. At all of the boarding houses there are numerous vacancies, but at
the Trough, Baalam and the War Horse are even considering placing shelves along the walls to accommodate the post holiday
rush. The reasons attributed to this phenomenon are many and manifold. Space permits the discussion of only three.

The first is that many of the students return after Christmas and, speaking in terms of shekels, are found wanting.
It being known that there is quite a herd fed at the Trough, many go there with the hope that
when the time of settlement comes the managers will forget some of them on account of being undiscernible in the
mob.

The second reason advanced by the profound thinkers of Jaybirdville is that the Trough, through the researches of one of
their managers, a Wildman, has discovered a new formula for making gravy which con-

No. 6 Willie McKinnon Fetzer—

On Your Way Through A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now wearing, just notice this: If they fit well at just three
spots—the heel, the instep and the toes—they will not look old for a

Ex-’06 D** Football—D** Baseball

W. McK. Fetzer, of Concord, N. C., stands out as one of the most popular players and coaches who ever
served the Red and Black. Entering Davidson in the fall of 1902 he played half on the football team which
beat Georgia Tech, 7-5, and coaching at his Alma Mater in 1917, he led the only team which scored upon
Tech when the Golden Tornado was the undisputed king of the Southern football world and a strong claimant for the
national championship.

After leaving Davidson, Bill started his long and successful coaching career at Fishburne Military Academy, Waynesboro, Va. In the fall
of 1915 Coach Fetzer was called to Davidson to take the place of his brother, Bob, and remained in the
position of head coach through the spring of 1919. During the four years of his regime on the gridiron, the
Wildcats scored 595 points to 285 for their opponents in 31 games, winning 17 games, losing 11 and tying three
against representative Southern teams. The victories include decisions over Auburn, Carolina, Clemson, State, V. M. I., and Washington and Lee.
Only three times were the Wildcats defeated by a margin of over two touchdowns, once by Carolina, once by Navy
and once by Georgia Tech.

From 1919 to 1921, Coach Bill was at N. C. State where he won the South Atlantic football championship. Fetzer
has been at Carolina since the fall of1921 and his success may be measured by the fact that twice Virginia
has been forced to bow to Carolina on the gridiron and last spring was beaten in basketball and shut out
in three successive contests on the diamond. Yale was the only team to win a victory over Carolina in football
this fall, and the prospects are bright for winning teams in other sports. Here’s to Bill Fetzer—one of the greatest
athletic mentors in the country.

It contains all the lusciousness of the watermelon, all the sweetness of excellent zip, and all the delightful attributes of
ancient Amontillado. The third reason, and the one which influenced those who are sensitive about their surroundings, is the stately
architecture of the old antebellum mansion in which the Trough is housed. Its massive appearance, its large fireplaces, its high-ceilinged
rooms, and its floors, which are constructed of boards the width of a roomy casket, all combine to give one
a feeling that he is the guest of some old plantation owner of the old South. One cannot say that
these three reasons which were offered by the profound thinker of this ancient village are the cause of the post-holiday
migration. Some of the newcomers were doubtless actuated by one motive and some by another. But it is safe to
suppose that most of the new arrivals were influenced by at least one of the above reasons.

NEW ENTERPRISE MAKES APPEARANCE LOCALLY

Davidson College now boasts a new corporation which was organized on January 4th by the class in Economics II under
Dr. Archibald Currie. This corporation, which will be known as the Cotton Textile Company, is now ready for business with
its home office at Davidson. The capital stock has been fixed at one million dollars with the par value of
stock at one hundred dollars a share. Business will be begun when three hundred thousand dollars of the capital stock
has been paid in.

At a meeting of the incorporators and shareholders last Thursday, it was decided that five officers and a board of
directors, composed of seven shareholders, would manage the business of the company. Professor Currie was temporary chairman at this meeting
and heard reports of the various committees. The charter as drawn up and presented by W. G. Guille, J. B.
McCallum, and D. M. Bethea was accepted by the shareholders. W. J. Cooper was selected to draw up the waiver
of the corporation. W. J. Richards and James McCutcheon were appointed to draw up the form of the stock certificates.
The officers of the company have not yet been named but the corporation intends to begin functioning immediately.

Of course, the Cotton Textile Company is built in the land of make-believe for the manufacture of cotton goods of
all kinds, but its purpose at Davidson is to train the members of the class in Eco. II in the
work of a corporation and especially the management of a cotton textile mill.

If they do not fit well there, they will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix
Shoes next time: they fit and see how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.

DIXIE DOPE
By FRANCIS GALLOWAY

With the Christmas holidays in the background, basketball is now the subject of general interest on the campus. On account
of the exams, the Wildcats won’t open up in earnest until the first of February, but many other squads have
already opened their schedules. Things look bright for several first-class teams in the State, and though the season is still
in its infancy, several games have been played that give some idea of how things stand.

Wake Forest was the only Carolina team to make a tour during the holidays. Five games were played with some
of the leading “Y” teams of the State. The Baptists won three and lost two. The only scores on hand
show a defeat by Concord “Y,” 40-37, and victories over Camp Bragg and Charlotte “Y,” the latter by a single
point. The comparatively poor showing of the Wake Forest five may be accounted for by the absence of Heckman and
Stringfield, two Baptist stars. Since the holidays, Wake Forest defeated William and Mary, 38-33 on the Virginian’s court.

Carolina appears to have the edge on Trinity as the Tar Heels twice defeated Durham “Y,” who in turn beat
Trinity. The victory of the Methodists over the strong Newberry team, though by a single point, shows that the Methodists
must be reckoned with when the Wildcats meet them in Charlotte early in February.

The University of Georgia, always a strong contender for championship honors, had only a moderately successful tour during the holidays.
Savannah “Y” and Jacksonville “Y” were nosed out in close games, but Albany “Y” and Camp Benning took decisions from
the Bulldogs. In collegiate circles, the Georgians seem to go better, however, and already they have chalked up three victories
on a trip through South Carolina. Clemson was beaten 29-20; and Furman was an easy victim, 48-28; but the Bulldogs
almost met disaster at Wofford when they barely won from the Terriers, 24-22. Wofford led during the larger portion of
the game. Despite the three collegiate victories, the Georgia five doesn’t seem to be the terror to its rivals that
it used to be several years ago.

Wofford, to date, has lost two games. Besides the Georgia affair, Camp Benning won a 33-31 victory a few days
ago. The soldiers have a fine team and Wofford did well to hold them to a single basket victory. In
Lindsey, the Terriers have a wonder-man. In the Georgia game, he made eight field goals, many of them from mid-floor.

Mercer, runners-up to Carolina at the tournament last year, dropped two games to the Albany (Ga.) “Y,” but redeemed themselves
with a victory over Ga. Tech. Tech has beaten Clemson, 26-17, almost the same score as Georgia’s victory. The University
of South Carolina, on their initial tour of the season, defeated The Citadel, 22-16, and the College of Charleston, 32-10.

STARTLING DISCOVERY MADE BY MODEST SENIOR

A great discovery has been made by one of the noble Seniors of Davidson—one so simple that it is really
strange it has never been made before. But such is the way with genius. This Senior, who refuses with sublime
modesty to let his name be used, has happened upon what he terms the “Conservation of Mastication.” This includes a
new form of chewing tobacco, a novel cuspidor, and a use for old ink bottles. Mr. X’s plan is simply
that of chewing Brown’s Mule and ink-balls alternately and catching the resulting liquid in an old ink bottle. This gives
a beautiful brown fluid that is pleasing to the eye and is also useful as it may be used for
ink. In fact, Mr. X claims that it will gradually drive ink off the market, as it is so far
superior to ink for writing purposes and as a missile its qualities cannot be denied. The only difficulty at present
is to contrive a way to manufacture this fluid for the market.

In his interview with the Davidsonian representative, Mr. X declared that he did not propose to attempt manufacture on a
large scale just at present but would merely make what he needed for his own use with a little to
give to his friends. This discovery is one that will prove of lasting benefit. By this means a man can
indulge freely in the pleasures of the weed and still not feel that he is guilty of any economic waste.

WE WILL BE LOOKING FOR ALL THE BOYS SATURDAY

EXCLUSIVE MEN’S SHOP
Make This Your Headquarters
Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Clothing and Furnishings
