THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

ATHLETICS

TOURNAMENT DOPE

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

Most of the games in the big tournament in Atlanta ran pretty true to form, with the big exception of the defeat of the Tar Heels by the University of Mississippi. Perhaps if North Carolina had lost a couple of games just before going to Atlanta they would have fought harder and had more success. Georgia Tech got into the semi-finals, and yet she had lost five in a row before entering the tournament. There is a whole lot in knowing there is a hard job before you and then bucking down to it. That Georgia-Georgia Tech game must have been a corker. One of the largest crowds that have ever attended a basketball game in the country packed the Atlanta Auditorium—eight thousand howling maniacs. Tech started off with a rush, and at the half-way mark led, 16-7. Georgia had made only one field goal, Gurr’s foul shooting accounting for the rest. In the second stanza, the Bullfrogs came back ferocious and played Tech off her feet; but the lead was too big to overcome and the game ended 27-22. After Tech snake-danced around Five Points and raised a rumpus generally, but there was none of that rowdyism and scrapping between the supporters of the two schools that so many had prophesized. The game was clean and a clean spirit prevailed when it was over. And yet a row of five years back keeps these two institutions from getting together in what would be one of the classics of the South—in football, basketball, and baseball.

Miss. A. & M. walked off with the tournament in fine style, beating Chattanooga in the finals by a ten-point margin. On the same night, Mercer surprised a lot of people by defeating Tech for third place. Bill Redd, of Chattanooga, was about the best the tournament produced. In the V. P. I. game that Chattanooga won, 38-23, the lanky center made 22 points, only one less than the entire V. P. I. team. Redd was the high point man of the tournament. If Lindsey, of Wofford, had played on a team that could have stuck with the bunch, the tale may have been different. Before Wofford was eliminated, he scored 23 points and led the scoring for the first two days.

THE Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT
BASEBALL SHOES
GLOVES
MITTS
BATS
We sell the Spalding, Harry C. Lee, Wright & Ditson RACKETS
Also the Dayton Steel Racket
We Restring Rackets
Davidson Agency is COMMISSARY

No. 10—John McKinley Black, '19
Football, Baseball

John McKinley Black, of Harrisburg and Davidson, N. C., matriculated at Davidson in the fall of 1914, and before the fall was over had made a name for himself by his spectacular work on the gridiron. For three years Jack played half on the Wildcat machine, and whenever two or three yards were needed for a first down it was he who carried the ball and made the distance. Five feet, eight inches tall and weighing 180 pounds, he ploughed his way through the line time after time for touchdowns. During the three years from 1914 to 1916 the Red and Black lost only seven games, and Jack starred in all of the fifteen victories. His drive and power were a big factor in the Red Machine’s record, and he will always be remembered at Davidson as the greatest line-plunger that ever donned a Red and Black uniform.

Jack held down the hot corner on the diamond during the same three years in sensational style, and was captain of the team in '17. During the season of 1916, the Wildcat nine won 14 out of 16 college games, losing one game to Maryville and one to Trinity, but taking the series from the Methodists by two victories. Jack was not a member of the famous team of '17, for he had enlisted during the summer and received his 2nd Lieutenant’s commission in the Field Artillery. The next year he crossed over and soon after his arrival was promoted and made 1st Lieut. Returning from the war zone, Jack came back to Davidson to finish his college course. Again in 1919 he starred on the gridiron, but injuries kept him out of a large number of games. To this fact is partly due the mediocre record, for with Jack on the sidelines the Wildcat offense was materially weakened. He recovered from his injuries in time to play in the Furman game on Turkey Day, and scored a touchdown against the Purple Hurricane in the 41-14 Davidson victory—the last time the Purple Hurricane has been stopped by the Wildcat’s claws. After graduating, Jack entered business and is now living in Greenville, S. C.

SCHEDULE ARRANGED FOR CLASS FOOTBALL

With the election of managers from the four classes, class football practice is under way, preparatory to the spring season which opens March 23. Uniforms and equipment have been issued to the numerous aspirants by Coach Grey, and daily practices are in order, under the guiding hand of the Varsity squad. Predictions are out of order as yet, but a lively tournament is easily foreseen. Managers are:
Seniors—W. S. Shyshard
Juniors—C. A. Young
Sophs—H. I. Shephard
Fresh—Tom Baker

The schedule follows:
Fresh vs. Sophs—Friday, March 23.
Juniors vs. Seniors—Saturday, March 24.
Fresh vs. Juniors—Friday, March 30.
Sophs vs. Seniors—Saturday, March 31.
Sophs vs. Juniors—Friday, April 6.
Fresh vs. Seniors—Saturday, April 7.

I do the very best I know how—the very best I can; and I mean to keep doing so until the end. If the end brings me out all right, what is said against me won’t amount to anything; if the end brings me out wrong, ten thousand angels swearing I was right would make no difference.
—Abraham Lincoln.

TRACK PROSPECTS GOOD FOR BANNER SEASON

For the past week, there has been a large number of men out for track in response to Captain Galloway’s call last Monday morning. A greater number than ever before reported for the first practice, and as the week progressed the number increased so much that the prospects for a winning team look very good. Most likely, the team will be composed mainly of new material from the Freshman class, as there are only five letter men back from last year. The services of a star dash man, Ted Koenig, who recently underwent an operation for appendicitis, will be greatly missed. The list of aspirants includes five letter men—Captain Galloway, Gracey, Dick, McCombs, and Striebeck. Aside from these, the old men out are Hendrix, Gordon, Matthews, Parish, Davidson, Calhoun, and Regen. Among the new men are Selzer, Williford, Lindamood, Bouvier, Jones, Anderson, Crane, Alexander, Causey, and Falls. The weights will be well taken care of by Regen, Gracey, McCombs, and Lindamood. All save Lindamood have proven their worth here, and Lindamood came with a brilliant record in shot-putting.Discuss and javelin. Gracey is the holder of the college record for the javelin throw. The hurdle men are showing class already, and with Dick, Gracey, Striebech, and Ravish as a nucleus, ought to set the pace for the men in the other events to follow. The jumpers and pole vaulters give promise of making records for themselves and Davidson this year. Aside from Davidson, Striebech, Calhoun, and Gracey, the old men, there are Anderson and Crane, who are showing up well. Anderson represented Staunton Military Academy in the pole vault last year. Dash men and distance runners are in prominence. The dashes have Hendrix, Gordon, and Matthews, and the Freshmen, Jones and Bouvier. In the longer distances are Galloway on the four-forty, and Selzer and Williford on the one and two-mile runs. These last two mentioned showed up well in the cross-country run held at Chapel Hill last fall. Judging from the quantity, as well as quality, of material, Davidson is destined to make a record this year. Manager-Captain Galloway has a schedule mapped out that will require some real work.

HIGH SCHOOL CONTESTS AROUSE MUCH INTEREST

Mooresville-Charlotte Game

In one of the fastest and most exciting games seen on the local court this season, Mooresville High School defeated Charlotte High School 31-24 last week. This game was one of the third-round games of the state championship, the winner playing Asheville here Saturday for a place in the semi-finals.

Harnel, of Charlotte, started off the scoring with a field goal, but Hartness, of Mooresville, soon overcame this lead with a foul and a field goal in quick succession. From then on Mooresville was never headed, Greshaw, Evans, and Hartness scoring point after point for their team. The Mooresville team showed wonderful passing ability throughout the game, but made nearly every chance at the basket count in their favor. Hornel and Ware, of Charlotte, showed up well, but both seemed to have trouble in finding the basket until the last quarter, when Charlotte started a rally that nearly put them in the lead. Starting off at the beginning of the second half with a crippled team, and with Mooresville five points in the lead, Charlotte came from behind and nearly swamped the Mooresville team with their aggressive tactics, but during this time Mooresville kept plugging, and when the final whistle blew they had the large end of a 31-25 score.

The line-up:
CHARLOTTE (25) MOORESVILLE (31)
Ware (13)........ LF ........ Hartness (9)
Horvel (8)....... RF ........ Gresham (6)
Morris .......... C ......... Evans (8)
Norris (4)........ LG ........ Carrigan (4)
Kearns .......... RG ........ Brown (4)

Asheville-Mooresville Game

Last Saturday on the local court Asheville High School defeated the Mooresville High outfit by the lop-sided score of 35-11. Asheville seemed to have their less experienced opponents guessing from the first. They started off with a rush which swept everything before them and left the Mooresville warriors on the little end of the lop-sided score. James, of Asheville, led his team, and with his running mate, Nixon, accounted for thirty-six of their team's points. Chakales, the super-athlete of Asheville, also played a good game at guard. While not spectacular in the least, he played a steady game, making many a Mooresville try at goal count for naught. Hartness, of Mooresville, played a good uphill game, but the weight and experience of his opponents were too much for him and he only got seven points; at that, he was high point man on his team. Evans, the tall center of Mooresville, did not display his usual brand of basketball, but he succeeded in caging the ball twice for his team’s other points.

The line-up:
ASHEVILLE (35) MOORESVILLE (11)
James (19)........ LF ........ Hartness (7)
Nixon (16)........ RF ........ Carrigan
Brandt (2)........ C ......... Evans (4)
Gresham .......... LG ........ Brown
Chakales .......... RG ........ Ferguson

Referee: Carboy, Elon.

DAFFY DITTIES

Two Winthrop girls sat serenely on a divan, when up walked a Davidson boy named Biddle; He thought the damsels looked lonely, and he knew he was, so he asked if he might sit in the middle. As Winthrop girls always do, they glanced about, and seeing no matron said, “Of course you may.” Biddle felt that a great moment was near, and gathering all his nerve took the seat right away.

At Winthrop, you know, the rules are rather strict, and the girls are deprived of most of their joys; And of course it sounds cruel, and I guess it is, but they are seldom allowed to talk to boys. The two girls’ hearts beat fast for they knew this was unusual for Winthrop life. Biddle, of course, felt that a great moment was at hand, and thought this a good chance to select a wife.

The girls gained, and were shooting questions about his work, asking if he danced, or if he was a good athlete; Biddle proudly stated that he got out of his exams, but humbly confessed that he made a poor showing shaking his feet. They giggled when he told he was a ministerial chap. They said, “Then guess you are too good to even smoke a pipe.” Now Biddle thought he was going some, but not so, the girls were calmly deciding he wasn't their type.

They continued to be nice for a while, but they soon got tired of sitting there and putting up a bluff, For they knew quite well they were being bored, and of the Davidson boy they had enough. Biddle had forgotten what he had meant to say, though it all had been gentle and mild. Hard luck for him that the girls were freshmen, and of course they prefer them young and wild. And so with expressions of regret they dashed away, Even while the sun was still bright in its ray; Leaving poor dumb-founded Biddle still in the middle With blank space on each side, for the girls left him to go on a ride.

BECAUSE—

Athletes Make Good As Salesmen

They have the natural training
They know how to think and act
They understand what it is to “fight through.”

Some of this Company's most successful representatives learned their first lessons on the gridiron and diamond. Our Agents’ Training School Did the Rest.

LIBERAL CONTRACTS