| THANKSGIVING EDITION

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Football EXTRA

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 29, 1923

Wildcat Mentor Names Mythical Eleven

Wildcats End Twenty-Seventh Season On Gridiron

Wildcats Win Three and Lose Six Games This Season — Coach Younger’s First Season Successful Despite Handicaps In Lack of Linesmen

The game with the Trinity Blue Devils this afternoon closes the Wildcat’s 27th year on the gridiron. During this quarter of a century, the Wildcats have made a name for themselves all over the South for clean sportsmanship and dogged determination to win. While there have been more successful seasons in Davidson history, the Wildcat team of 1923 has lived up to the traditions of former years in every way.

Under a new coaching regime, the Wildcats have won three games and lost six against representative teams of the Carolinas and Virginia. In only one game has the Red-jerseyed eleven been snowed under. Furman romped home with a 30-0 victory. Lack of weight, as has been always the case, is the chief difficulty which Coach has faced at Davidson. The team this year averages slightly over 160 pounds when in shape. Injuries during the season have brought the average below this mark in several games. Against Carolina, the Wildcats presented a line which averaged slightly over 155 pounds from end to end, yet the Wildcat spirit asserted itself and the Tar Heels had to fight for their 14-3 victory.

In spite of this handicap, Coach Monk has done wonders with his material. The center who played the whole game against Carolina tipped the beam at 145 pounds, but he has been developed into a good linesman. In early season, Wildcat supporters were disappointed in the showing of Jim Hendrix, but against the Tar Heels, Jim played a wonderful game and looks good for next year’s eleven. During the season, Wells has developed into a spectacular back. He has only played in two college games but in both he has starred.

The 1923 season opened with a 19-0 de-

(Continued on page 5)

LINE COACH TILSON

Trinity Battle Today

DAVIDSON 1923 RECORD

Davidson 10 Elon 0
Davidson 3 V.P.I. 18
Davidson 7 Citadel 0
Davidson 7 W. Forest 6
Davidson 0 Furman 30
Davidson 6 N.C. State 12
Davidson 0 Clemson 12
Davidson 3 Carolina 14

Coaching Trio Contributes To Honor of Old Davidson

ATHLETIC DIRECTORS WIN PLACE IN HEARTS OF ENTIRE STUDENT BODY

Coaches Younger, Tilson, and Rawson Make Up the Davidson Wildcat Coaching Staff—A Redoubtable Trio They Are — Fighting Wildcats All!

William Lee Younger, known on the campus as Monk, has trained the Wildcat eleven with the aggressiveness and skill which won him a most enviable record in his college days.

HEAD COACH YOUNGER

Thawkeritine Seray Closes Season For the Wildcats

Teams Evenly Matched When They Meet On Wearn Field For Turkey-Day Classic

Coach Younger Selects Honor Roll of Gridiron Stars From Carolina Teams

TRINITY 1923 RECORD

Trinity 68 Guilford 0
Trinity 54 Randolph-M. 0
Trinity 6 Carolina 14
Trinity 0 Wm. & Mary 21
Trinity 0 Virginia 33
Trinity 30 Newberry 14

First Year Men Outscore Opponents During Season

Freshmen Drop But Two Games—Promising Material For Next Year’s Varsity Outfit

The second Freshman football team in Davidson's history, under Coach C. W. Rawson, a star in three major sports from Georgia University, rolled up a total of 66 points against 47 in six games. In only two games did the Yearlings fail to put the oval across the last line and one of these ended ina 0-0 tie. With a comparatively small number of candidates from which to pick, Coach Rawson put out a working machine that looked well throughout the whole season. The two games lost were against heavy odds, but the team came back and the true Davidson spirit overwhelmed Oak Ridge in the last game. The Wildcat-Blue Devil clash here today marks the second gridiron clash between the teams, ending the season on the winning side of the ledger, 12-0. Both have had mediocre seasons, and the game this afternoon decides which will land in the cellar among the Big Five of North Carolina football. For this reason, the game will be fiercely fought. One or the other will be pushed into the cellar. Last year, the Methodists won. Comparative scores this year show that the teams are evenly matched.

The first game was played against Charlotte Highs in which the Fresh got off to a 6-0 win but failed to show much strength. A long pass toward the end of the struggle gave the winning points and kept the game in the win column. Furman sent her One Year Olds to Richardson Field for the season's only game on the home lot, and though outplayed by the Davidson yearlings, managed to knot the count at 0-0. A later decision recalled the safety made in the last moments of the game, which ruled on the field gave Furman a two-point victory. Trinity has the edge in dope. They have the fastest backfield in the state, admittedly, and a line which is well able to hold. On the other hand, there has been a change of coaches at the Durham institution, and this is a handicap to any team. Coach Alexander (W. & J.) is now in charge and will lead the Blue Devils to Charlotte.

Coach Younger's team made a great showing against Carolina, and his men have had a 12-day rest while Trinity played Newberry Saturday. Wildcat injuries are plentiful. Hendrix, Summers, Laird, Baker, and Fields are not in the best of condition after their injuries of the past two weeks. Wells is the man on whom Wildcat hopes will be largely centered. This back has shown exceptional offensive ability and Da- (Continued on page 2)

COACH MONK’S PICK

Sapp's headwork saved. Rock Hill witnessed the second Wildcat victory on October 18, when Davidson Fresh put two touchdowns over by a pass and recovered a fumbled punt. P. C. showed plucky fight in the last half but was inferior both on defense and offense. The first loss of the season came to N. C. State at Pinehurst on November 1st. Though outweighed 15 pounds to the man, the Wildkittens put up much the better game, being scored on when the Fresh from State fumbled ten yards from the goal line and fell on the ball for a touchdown as it rolled over the line. A couple of weeks later saw the Palmetto University Fresh romp away to a 40-14 win. Too many subs of the class A variety proved the downfall of the Davidson lads, who put up a stiff battle in the face of long runs from intercepted passes and costly breaks. The better team won but could not hold in the offense of the Presbyterians. The entire team was going wild against Oak Ridge in the closing game at Statesville. Line plays and end runs worked to perfection, and an early lead of three touchdowns in the first half was increased to 34 points at the close of a game in which Oak Ridge could do little with the Wildkittens’ defense. Davidson Fresh 6, Charlotte High 0. (Continued from page 3)

Five Carolina, Two Wake Forest, Two State Men, and One Each From Davidson and Trinity Make Up Selection

Eight years ago, away back in 1915, Monk Younger, then a Freshman at Davidson, playing his first year of college football, was a unanimous choice for an end position on the mythical All-State eleven. The next year he left the state and went to V. P. I., but he will always be remembered as one of the most aggressive ends ever seen in North Carolina. After a lapse of eight years, Monk has returned to North Carolina football circles as Head Coach of the Davidson Wildcats and has injected into the Wildcats that same aggressive spirit which made him such a power on the gridiron. Coach Monk has seen every football team in the state in action on more than one occasion this fall, and in selecting his All-State eleven for the Davidsonian, he has chosen a well-balanced organization of brilliant stars; one capable of every form of attack, and combining with its attack a strong defense.

On the left wing, Coach Younger has selected Captain Casey Morris of Carolina on account of his all-round ability, both on offense and defense. Morris is a brilliant receiver of forward passes, a man who is hard to get around, and one who is capable of handling any man placed against him. On the other flank is Captain Elias Faison of Davidson, whose defensive play has stood out in every game of the season. Elias is especially good at boxing in the opposing tackle, and many a play has gained around his end on account of his ability to take his man out of the play. With this pair of ends, the flanks are well guarded, and a good passing attack is assured. Captain Pagano of the Wake Forest eleven is another end whose work has shown up well this year. McIver of Carolina is the best bet for left tackle. He has weight, is hard to unbalance, and is an adept at breaking through the line and smearing plays. In the Davidson game (Continued on page 7)

“FRESHMAN COACH RAWSON Make the Blue Devils Feel Blue”