THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

CLASS IN EXPERIMENTAL PSYCHOLOGY INSTITUTED

A regular feature of the college work after this year will be a laboratory course in Psychology. It constitutes one semester's work and is open to anyone who has had the first half of Psychology I or the equivalent. The apparatus will be installed in the basement of the physics building. Though it has not arrived yet, word has been received that it is on the road and will be here shortly. Some of the individual pieces of apparatus are: a tachistoscope for measuring attention range; a chronoscope for measuring reaction time; tuning forks to determine sound discrimination; and a perimeter for plotting the size and shape of the retina. Color mixtures for the synthetic study of color compositions have also been ordered. A complete laboratory course for the testing of skin and muscular sensations will be shortly instituted. Experiments will be conducted in higher thought as well as in the emotions. The course will be given like the courses in biology or chemistry, that is, with regular afternoon laboratory periods. Eighteen men are taking the course this semester. No doubt the number will be greatly augmented next year, for the course will surely prove to be most interesting.

PANDEINIC SOCIETY HAS VARIED PROGRAM

The Pandeinic Literary Society had a very interesting meeting on February 13. The subject for debate was: Resolved, That the Turks should be banished from civilized Europe. The affirmative was upheld by Davis, J. H., and Curry. On the negative were Regen, E., and Pitts. The house and judges were both unanimously in favor of the affirmative. Next was a declamation by W. C. Milton. The subject was “Not Guilty.” The speaker put much feeling into his delivery. W. T. Baker carried the society off with him to his beloved Hawaiian Islands during his oration. He gave a resume of a trip which he had taken through these islands a few years ago. I. P. Burney, from the Metrophilian Society, presented tentative plans to the Pandeinic for literary society night during commencement. After a great deal of discussion both pro and con, these plans were accepted. D. B. Walthall gave a short account of the current events of the past few weeks.

COMMENCEMENT PLAN MEETS FAVOR OF PHIS

A proposition—not dedicated to the proposition that all men were created equal—but that the seniors and the four literary societies combine their social functions on the night that the societies give their formal reception during Commencement was put up to the Phis by L. B. Burney last Thursday night. The society as a whole approved of the plan set forth and voted to back it with all her resources and make it a success. A new feature was added to the program—current events. The need of this has been felt for some time. H. M. Wells, the first man to function on this phase of the program, gave a carefully selected report on the happenings of the past week. The debate had to do with the justification of the French in making the stringent demands on the Germans for their fulfillment of the Versailles Treaty and pay her indemnity. R. O. Sellars and A. B. Williford held that the French are entirely justified. P. J. Story and H. M. White, both appointed on the negative, held it unjust. The decision committee agreed with the affirmative. J. E. Holtzhouser delivered a declamation on the birth of Abraham Lincoln, setting forth his achievements and soundness of judgment with force and vim. The oration by W. Glenn Houck, on the causes of the French occupying German territory, gathered from lectures by Dr. J. Moore McConnell in history, confirmed the decision the judges made on the debate.

LITERARY FRATERNITY DISCUSSES ORATORY

The Gavel and Forum Literary Fraternity held its semi-monthly meeting, February 15, in the Delta Theta Chi hall. The chief event of the meeting was an address by one of Davidson’s best speakers, Prof. A. Currie. Professor Currie had as his subject, “The Influence of Roman Oratory on Present Day Speaking.” He carefully traced the evolutionary steps of the advance of oratory from the time of the Roman republic to the present. At the present time, Professor Currie thinks that this generation has a wrong idea of oratory, regarding it as mere sound of smooth language, with little or no deep thought. What a would-be orator needs is clear presentation of a worthwhile idea or thought, not vain or meaningless imitations of so-called orators. J. D. Bernhardt then held the attention of the meeting by reading one of Webster's famous orations. Then followed an open discussion by all of the members. The purpose of this fraternity is to arouse more interest in literary work, to make public speaking more prominent at Davidson, and to give recognition to men interested in forensic work. Steps are being taken to incorporate the local fraternity into a national one.

PHYSICS FRATERNITY HEARS TWO REPORTS

The Sigma Pi Sigma Physics Fraternity held its regular meeting in the physics lecture room, last Wednesday night at 8 p.m. After the business before the society had been disposed of, two excellent papers were read. The first, by Ray Carr, gave a few practical applications of a radio station. Prof. I. M. Currie read a paper on the “Future of Radio,” in which he brought out many interesting facts about the radio of today, and showed the boundless opportunities in this field for its development in the future. After the reading of these two papers, the meeting was adjourned. The next meeting will be on the night of Wednesday, February 28.

POLITY CLUB TAKES IN TWO NEW MEMBERS

The Polity Club met on Monday evening, February 12, in Shearer hall. At this meeting, the club added two new members to the roll: H. M. White and W. I. Gallaway. The program, which was very interesting, consisted in the reading of a thesis by each of the new members. H. M. White discussed the relation between America and China. He gave a very interesting history of China and her relations to the United States in the past, followed by a more detailed account of the relations existing between China and the United States at the present. His thesis gave a keen insight of China and her foreign policy. He also dwelt at some length on the policy the United States has adopted toward China. W. I. Galloway discussed Smyrna and her importance in world affairs. He began with a history of Smyrna and her foreign affairs, showing clearly the present relations between Smyrna and the world at large. Then he brought up the importance of this country, showing that Smyrna is of greater importance in world affairs today than is generally thought. It is also interesting to note that Mr. R. P. Lane, European director of the Junior Red Cross, will speak in Shearer hall on March 7. His subject will be on conditions abroad. Mr. Lane was secured by the local chapter of the International Relations Club.

METROPHILIANS ELECT SPRING TERM OFFICERS

The officers for the spring term of the Metrophilian Literary Society were elected on last Tuesday night. Pat Kimsey was unanimously elected president; R. L. Price, vice-president; L. P. Burney, first critic; G. M. Morrow, second critic; W. M. Gracy, and T. B. Thompson, second supervisor. The members of the society feel that they have elected men who will ably carry on the work which has been placed upon them. These officers will be installed at the next meeting. After the election, the remainder of the evening was given over to a smoker, which was thoroughly enjoyed by all. There were many speeches delivered, but the event of the evening was a vocal solo by Mr. P. C. Henderson.

SYMPATHY EXTENDED TO UNCLE BAXTER

The members of the student body, as well as the townspeople, were saddened last week to hear of the death of Uncle Baxter’s youngest daughter, who was 22 years of age. She died on Saturday, February 10 and was buried on the following Tuesday. It is interesting to note that Uncle Baxter has been connected with the college since his boyhood days. Uncle Baxter relates with pleasant memories how he used to play about the large stones that had been hauled to build the old Chambers.Building. The sympathy of the student body goes out to him in his bereavement. 

THE REEL STUFF

This week's screen attraction will be Thomas Meighan in “Back Home and Broke.” The story is by George Ade, one of the best-known American writers. He is widely known as a humorist. “Back Home and Broke” is Mr. Ade’s second screen story. His first, “Our Leading Citizen,” was also played by Thomas Meighan and was an unquestioned success. “Back Home and Broke” is the story of the struggles of a young man for success after the death of the supposedly rich father who left him and his mother penniless. After going West, he returns to the old home an apparent failure and is ridiculed by everyone. It is his method of dealing with this situation that provokes the unlimited laughter created by this picture.

Thomas Meighan was born in Pittsburgh, Pa. He left college to go on the stage. After about eight years on the stage, he joined the Paramount Company. Mr. Meighan is supported in this picture by Lila Lee. Miss Lee was born in New York. She went on the vaudeville stage as a child and became a screen actress with “Famous Players” in 1918 when she was only sixteen. The small-town hero usually returns rich and marries the banker's daughter, but you'll see how Thomas Meighan came back in “Back Home and Broke.”

Coles Phillips, the eminent artist whose superb works of art are admired by every college man, has named Marion Davies as one of the twelve most beautiful women in America. The publishers of Charles Major's “When Knighthood Was In Flower” estimate that it has been read in book form by 5,000,000 readers. It sold 200,000 copies the first year, and the novel has ranked as a best seller longer than any modern book of fiction. Among the other rare antiques used in this production is a statue of the Madonna carved in the fifteenth century by Reinscheider, the famous carver of that period. It is of Spanish type, carved out of solid wood and is valued at $6,000.

CINDER PACKERS ANTICIPATE (Continued from Page 1)

The schedule is as follows:
South Carolina at Columbia......... April 7
N. C. State at Raleigh............... April 14
Clemson at Davidson................. April 21
Pending, away....................... April 28
State Meet at Durham................ May 5

Davidson's golf team is also in the process of formation and will be rounded into shape within the next three weeks. All men who believe they can qualify are requested by Captain Bachman to hand in three signed scores within the next two weeks. Arrangements for matches with Salisbury and Gastonia will be made as soon as the men whip themselves into form. Other matches will be added to the schedule if possible. It is also stated that Davidson may enter a team in the Olympic meet at Durham if her men show up well. The golf course is in excellent condition, due to the efforts and supervision of Doctor Arbuckle. Golf interest is growing rapidly at Davidson and the student body is expecting a real Wildcat team this spring.

Tennis prospects are good and the team is centering itself around Captain Bradley. Last year’s Wildcat racketeers copped the State championship, and no less is expected of this year’s team. Manager Price is arranging the schedule of tournaments and is taking steps toward entering the State meet.

NEW PLANS WORKED OUT (Continued from Page 1)

The reception will take the nature of Oriental mysticism and is to be a surprise to all. However, it bids fair to excel anything of its kind ever staged on literary society night before. At the various meetings of the literary societies held last week, the chief marshal, L. P. Burney, explained the plan. The whole idea was immediately accepted and all the societies voted to uphold the chief marshal and his assistants in every way in order to make the plan a success. The valedictorians of the various societies will be selected within the next two weeks, and preparation will be made for the exercises. Repliers will come from members of the junior class.

WANDERING MINSTRELS RETURN (Continued from Page 1)

The exceeding brilliancy of certain members of ’26 was exposed when Seago and Finn couldn’t catch the train because they failed to find the depot. At Gastonia, the Minstrel played before the largest audience on the trip, and the most enthusiastic. After their appearance, a reception was tendered them, and both there and in Greenville they were entertained in private homes. After the show in Charlotte, the Minstrels went down to the radio broadcasting station at the Andrews Music Store and broadcasted their main selections. While still sending, a telegram was received from Pittsburgh to the effect that people in the Smoky City were hearing the program and enjoying it immensely. After a selection from Gallagher and Shean, and during an orchestral piece, a call came for more of Woolfolk and Martin’s act. Their radio program consisted of a one and one-half hour concert, including Woolfolk and Martin in end-man dialogue, O. J. Allison singing “Love Sends a Little Gift of Roses,” the quintet with string instruments, the quartet in four selections, several pieces of Gallagher and Shean, and “Bamboo Babies,” sung by all.

The quartet, composed of Jones, Wilson, Brown, and McLeod, deserves special mention also. They received encores at all appearances. Two of the number, Jones and Brown, in the presentation of a colored version of “Romeo and Juliet,” somewhat changed Shakespeare's wording, but the effect was the same. After the last in Charlotte, the scenery was about as thoroughly fagged out as the players. It had been nailed and re-nailed until there was hardly room to nail again. It was a tired crew that piled into Davidson late Saturday night, but they left a name worthy of themselves in their wake. Proof of this lies in the fact that since they have come home, about a dozen requests for bookings have come in from all parts of the two Carolinas and from Georgia.

The Minstrel cast was composed of R. L. McLeod, E. T. Woolfolk, A. V. Gibson, A. M. Martin, J. B. Sloan, W. T. Jones, C. V. Brown, D. G. Wilson, G. D. Rogers, W. P. Brown, C. D. Regen, W. I. Howell, A. M. Hurd, J. R. Earnest, W. H. Crane, R. A. M. Seago, L. B. Finn, W. McCain, W. S. Buchanan, H. K. Russell, O. J. Allison, J. B. Bryan, T. L. Fraser, Gettys Guille, H. F. Northrop, J. C. Simpson, G. R. Dupuy. The management of the trip was ably handled by R. C. Aiken.

Agents Wanted To Represent
Massachusetts Bonding and Insurance Company
Ocean Accident and Guaranty Company
W. E. PRICE General Agent
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Not so many years ago (when some of us ourselves were undergraduates) the college student was a hoodlum. Today he's as conservative as can be—but with definite expression of his individuality nonetheless. Witness, John Ward Shoes. They are made to meet the tastes of college men: dignified, but carrying a note of real distinction. The John Ward representative displays in No. 4 Georgia Hall February 22, 1923.

John Ward Men’s Shoes
121 Duane Street, New York

“Lava,” wrote the Freshman, “is what you use to shave with.”

And perhaps the Freshman was not so far wrong at that. He may have been thinking of lather that rolled down his cheeks, dried on his face, and erupted his feelings in the process. Today, there is something better—Williams’ differs from any shaving lather you ever used. For Williams’ Shaving Cream contains a certain ingredient that is distinctly beneficial to the skin. And Williams’ is easier to shave with. It softens whisker resistance with a speed that takes all the tedium out of the shaving process. Get a tube of Williams’ today and begin enjoying its helpful care. Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!