THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

DR. McILWAINE IS SUNDAY “Y” SPEAKER

Davidson students were glad to welcome again Rev. W. B. McIlwaine, pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, who addressed the “Y” at the vesper service Sunday. Doctor McIlwaine visited the campus last fall and spoke before the same gathering on the subject of “Jesus Before Pilate,” in which he gave a great impression of Christ as He stood before the king of earthly power.

Ted Jones led the singing for the occasion, and Purdy was at his accustomed place at the piano. White and Finn were faithful to their places in furnishing the instrumental music. Bascomb Sorrells had charge of the services, reading the Scripture lesson, and later introducing the speaker of the evening. During the opening exercises, Harry Price and Eugene Regen led the house in prayer.

Doctor McIlwaine, in his opening remarks, spoke of the pleasure of such an occasion, and spoke highly of the manner in which Arnett Gamble filled Doctor McIlwaine’s pulpit on a former occasion. Taking for his subject “Jesus Christ,” the speaker said, in part:

“When a man tells you he is going to preach a sermon on the subject of Jesus Christ, you immediately expect a dry sermon. When men speak of Jesus Christ they preach dry sermons.

“But why so? Surely it is not the subject, for they are speaking of Jesus, the one perfect Man; Jesus, the one perfect Teacher; Jesus, the one perfect Example for man to follow; Jesus the Godly Man; Jesus, the Savior of the World. Surely there is nothing wrong with the subject.

“Dry talking is the result of dry thinking. We think of Christ as a Christ of nineteen centuries ago, as one who is not present today. The centuries have added a haze, and make it appear that Christ is in the distance.

“We sometimes think of Christ as a dead Christ. We see His life and His lifetime teachings. We see Him on the cross and we think of Him as dead. We do not think of the Resurrected Christ.

“Again, we think of Him as afar off, as one gone away to Himself. Such erroneous thoughts of Him keep us and our way of looking at religion. Religion is life itself, and there are too many dogmas, and too little real motive power in us.

“Paul preached Christ; and three thousand were saved to Him in one day. He preached Christ and Him crucified, and he turned the world upside down. This was because Paul preached the Living Christ, and because Christ was with Him. To Paul, Christ was the present Christ, the Living Christ.

“Paul witnessed for Christ as the Resurrected Christ. Paul practiced the Living Christ.

“Get the conviction of truth in your life. Remove all doubts from your heart. Practice the living Christ. Look to the risen Christ. As you see with the eyes of the soul, He will become real to you.

“Walk with circumspection before Christ. As you would if your mother were present, so walk in His presence. See Christ as the Present Christ, and all doubt will disappear. Know Christ as He is today.”

Here the speaker told of the late Dr. Theron H. Rice, of Union Theological Seminary, who, when asked that, if scientific discoveries should be made that cast doubt on the foundation of the Christian religion, what effect they would have upon him, he replied, “They would not affect me in the least, for I know Christ as He is today.”

STUDENT VOLUNTEER UNION

Continued from Page 1

Claude M. Lee, an Episcopal missionary to China, and Mrs. B. W. Herring, of the Southern Baptist work in China, on the needs and work of this field. Miss Virginia Prichard, Traveling Secretary of the Volunteer Union, then led discussions on missionary education in this country and the student’s connection with it.

That afternoon Mr. Frank Gillam, educational work in the Belgian Congo, made a stirring appeal for this work. He stressed the need for education as a means toward the end of all missionary enterprises—the carrying of Christ to all people. L. V. Gogati, a Hindu student at State College, closed the meeting with a forceful talk on the value of a missionary endeavoring to learn from the people to whom he goes as well as to teach them.

Saturday night Trinity College gave a pageant in Pullen Hall, The Gift of Self. The hindrances were strongly presented in this allegorical picture of a typical college campus of today. After this pageant, a very delightful reception was given to the delegates in the “Y” building.

A morning watch was held Sunday at 9:30 and afterwards the students attended the regular services of the churches in Raleigh. That afternoon Mrs. J. L. Anderson, a graduate of Meredith and one of the founders of the N. C. V. U. in 1912, told of last year’s meeting of the World Christian Students Movement (of which the Volunteer Movement is a part) in China. In simple expressive language she pointed with confidence to the worldwide growth of movements seeking to make Christ known to all peoples.

Miss Pritchard then led a discussion on questions asked concerning volunteers. J. A. Bradley, of Carolina, and Madge Hardaway, of Flora MacDonald, reported on their recent trip as Council Members to headquarters in Richmond. The need for volunteers and the Meredith quartette which rendered several selections, and also to other colleges.which helped greatly along this line. Much of the success of the conference was due to the efforts of Guy Weeks, the president of the Union, and to Elmer King, the “Y” Secretary at State. Davidson men at the conference were: Guy Weeks, Izzy Thames, Bill Baker, Barclay Walthall, Tag Guiton, Lee McLean, Hugh Bradley, Perrin Hudgins, and Ben Wharton.

QUEEN’S CHORAL CLUB
Continued from Page 1

Boomerangs, fair dressed as hired girls without a job. They hire themselves out to Lionel and Plunkett who are ignorant of their identity. The third act finds Lady Harriet and Nancy, as Martha and Julia, in the house of Plunkett. The result is that Lionel falls in love with Martha and Plunkett with Julia. They are secretly in love with the two farmers but do not show it. In this act, Martha sang a beautiful solo which brought the house down and Lionel to his knees. The act closes by Martha and Julia escaping, when they find out their predicament, with the aid of Martha’s father.

The fourth act was the climax of the play. While in the forest alone, Lionel sings over the song which Martha sang to him. Martha appears but conceals her love from him. He finds out her rank and gives up all hope of winning her love. They meet again, this time in a company of hunters and huntresses. She tells him she cares for him and Julia does not refuse Plunkett’s advances. After the curtain fell, the whole club sang "O! Davidson," amid the cheers of an enthusiastic audience. The operetta was splendid and those responsible for it are to be congratulated on the wonderful way they managed it. The proceeds of the show go towards the Davidson annual.

All actual heroes are essential men, and all men possible heroes. —Browning.
The time is never lost that is devoted to work. —Emerson.

More students have been registered to date for next session than for the same date of any previous year. Keep in touch with that friend who is coming up next fall.

“To know Christ,” said the speaker, “We must associate with Him. We must practice His presence, and then we must introduce our friends to Him. The present Christ in your life will remove all doubt of Him.”

Dr. C. I. Hounshell, Secretary of the Methodist Board of Foreign Missions, opened the Sunday night closing service with a speech of vitality and of great force. He saw in the peace through Christ. Lyman Hoovler, Traveling Secretary, spoke next. He brought to his hearers a strengthening of each one’s purpose to make his life count in God’s plan for it. The retiring president, Guy Weeks, handed over to the new president, J. A. Bradley, the reins of government. In a few words, Bradley declared his acceptance of the office as a responsibility requiring his utmost endeavors. The Conference closed with a simple heart-to-heart talk of what the conference had meant to the different delegates. This meeting was a fitting climax to a session of unusual things and has inspired the N. C. S. V. U. with even stronger hopes of increased activity in the master’s work.

The new officers are as follows: President, J. A. Bradley, U. N. C.; first vice-president, Mary Wilkinson, Trinity; second vice-president, Sadie Green, A. C. C.; secretary, Margaret Levum, Guilford; treasurer, A. M. McBryde, Davidson; editor volunteer, Carolyn Rogers, Queens; business manager volunteer, R. H. Herring, Wake Forest.

The election of new council members was postponed till the fall. Besides the pageant given by Trinity Volunteer Movement, the hope world Columbia Theological Seminary.

COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA
JOHN M. WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presbyterian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p.m., beginning Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednesday, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Charleston, S. C.

SMYTH LECTURES
Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
“Sermonic Sources”

Thursday, April 12th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jacksonville, Fla.
“Passion in Preaching”

Friday, April 13th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.
“The Man and His Message”

Monday, April 16th
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jackson, Miss.
“Regulative Principles in Preaching”

Tuesday, April 17th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.
“Evangelistic Preaching”

Wednesday, April 18th
Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, Pastor, Government Street Presbyterian Church, Mobile, Ala.
“The Use of Imagination in Preaching”