THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1923

ATHLETIC NEWS

Yard Lines

‘NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

Davidson Meets State In Queen City Saturday

Wolfpack Has Decided Edge in Weight Over Wildcats

With second place honors very unsettled, the Techmen from N.C. State, after having played in seemingly hard luck this year, will invade Charlotte next Saturday intent upon maintaining her standing in the free for all. The Staters are beginning to show rare form and will present hard opposition for the Davidsonians on Wearn Field, Saturday, that will decide the state's second best. Dope on Davidson's next foe is very scarce. P. C. furnished the only sidelight that can be had. Davidson defeated P. C. in Rock Hill by a 3 to 0 count; P.C. then defeated South Carolina in her own back yard 7 to 3; the Sandlappers later holding State to a 7 to 0 score in Raleigh. If the dope box were as sure as the tar box, the Presbyterians could claim an even break and the two teams will exhibit a brand of football rarely seen in their clash Saturday. The game will be a hair raiser from start to finish.

An insight on former games played by the two schools since 1899 gives State a wide margin over Davidson in games won and points scored. In the fifteen games played, State has won ten, lost three, and two have resulted in ties. In the twelve games of which scores were available, Tech has scored 138 points to Davidson's 56 points. The three other games were won by State. The A. & I. squad of twenty-nine men is well proportioned, the squad averaging 170 pounds to the man. Ten of the players on the squad weigh 180 pounds or over. The team that started the V. M. I. game last Saturday averaged 173 pounds in the line. The backfield averaged 161 pounds. These figures give State a slight edge in weight. Of the eleven men starting the V. M. I. game, six were playing their first year, four their second, and the captain was playing his third year on the squad. In spite of the new material in the lineup, the State team is well coached and well trained. Every man on the team is going to bear watching by the Davidson team. State is not an easy foe, but is one of true worth and capable of putting up a stiff fight. Her offense is not perfect, her defense is like a stone wall. Penn found almost impenetrable when they ran up against it in State’s second game this year.

State’s season has been far from successful so far this year. They opened the season with a narrow escape at the hands of Roanoke, winning 6 to 0. The next Saturday, they came back strong and held the hard-hitting Penn State to a 16 to 0 score. The 7 to 0 victory over South Carolina the next Saturday was their last victory, North Carolina having defeated them 14 to 0 at Raleigh and V. M. I. having smothered them 22 to 7 at Norfolk last Saturday.

SPORTING GOODS

Our Representative on the Campus

The Commissary

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.

18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

SHOES

Davidson Representative

J. P. HENDRIX

302 West

Samples now on display

WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE

J. M. HENDRIX AND COMPANY

GREENSBORO NORTH CAROLINA

SENIORS DEFEAT SOPHS

In a slow but interesting game last Tuesday, the Seniors defeated the Sophomores in the first inter-class basketball contest to the tune of 33 to 19. The game progressed rather languidly, the Seniors getting the jump on the Sophs right at the start without much effort. Boushee and Elkins rolled up a large score before the Sophs could get started. The only fast part of the game was in the last few minutes of play when the Sophs started a drive too late to get anywhere but kept the game from being a runaway. Both teams showed lack of practice. Neither team had more than a week to practice before the game and both needed more than they got. The Seniors had apparently the better team and more than likely will get the championship, although it will be hotly contested. Their guarding, passing, and shooting far surpassed that of the Sophs and if the game had been faster on the whole they would have thrilled the spectators. The Sophs could not seem to penetrate the guards of the Seniors but when they did the ball usually went through the basket, Huie doing most of their shooting. The Sophomores had little team work for some reason and everyone seemed to be playing for himself. They made but very few fouls, however, and played as hard as the warm night would permit.

The first half the Seniors looked as if they were going to have a walk away. Boushee, McBryde, and Elkins were all over the floor all the time, it seemed, and could shoot as often as they tried. The guarding of Currie and Ed Brown kept the Sophs from getting under the basket, while their forwards rang ‘em in at the other goal. There wasn't very much team work during this period, but somehow the Seniors were always where the ball happened to be whether they threw it or not. The second half saw the Seniors' second team in action but when the other side started to play some real basketball the first team came back and for the last of the half both teams played like houses afire. The Sophs got some good passing started and with “Kelly” Moore blocking the Seniors' passing the other members of the team started shooting. Most of the Seniors' goals were made from long shots, Paul Story getting three in about five minutes right in succession.

For the Seniors, Boushee with his eleven points was high scorer. For the Sophomores, Litch Huie and Johnny Cooke were responsible for the work of all the Soph team. The score:

Sophs (19) Seniors (33)
Coltrane (6) L.F. Boushee (11)
Oden (2) R.F. Elkins (8)
Hovis (9) C. McBryde (4)
Gibbs (2) L.G. Currie
Biggs (1) R.G. Brown

Substitutes: Seniors: Priest for McBryde, McLaurin (6) for Elkins, Story (4) for Boushee, Price for Currie, Boushee for McLaurin, Elkins for Story, McBryde for Priest. Sophs: Moore for Coltrane, Coltrane for Oden, Hovis for Coltrane. Time of halves: 20 minutes. Referee, Hengeveld.

By W. F. Galloway

Wolf Pack vs. Wildcats. Quite a dog and pony show, so to speak. The real test begins Saturday. Wildcats and State, Carolina and Trinity. This zeal on the part of the Baptists is terrible. They insist on soaking the Presbyterians every time they get a chance. A winning team can win on its own real pep, but a team that doesn't win all the time, needs the pep of 500 Wildcats behind it. A football game tied when it ended, lost within an hour, and found again to be a 0-0 affair after a couple of weeks; well that has our goat. So Sapp wasn't quite so much of a sap after all. Elon is the hero of the hour, the only North Carolina team to win last week. Fifteen for Elon, gang. And still Guilford and Lenoir don’t seem to be able to score. The Center-Penn game saw the setting of a great sun beyond the edge of the gridiron. Two or three years ago Center was the team of the hour, now they have sunk to the level of the rest; good, but not too good to be beaten by a team that has lost before. Also, the Freshmen beat the Juniors. It looks like the court of control is a failure. It was obliging of the Fresh to hold off the coup de grace until the Senior feed was over, and we could all get down and see the thing. The team reports that they are feeling fine from the rest after the Furman game. They say that things are going to be humming in Charlotte Saturday. We noticed with a peculiar feeling of curiosity that Carolina was elated over the defeats of State and Trinity. Since the Tar Heels have already beaten both State and Trinity it makes us wonder, “How they get that way.”P. 1. beat Maryland, and Maryland beat Penn, and Penn wallops Center, and Center mauls Clemson, it looks like the Red and Black ought to stand some sort of show with the Tigers. Barnum and Bailey and Ringling Bros. will have to go some to beat a match between Tigers and Wildcats. We note that our old friend Bobbie Long has lately joined the Baptists. Bobbie was once a Presbyterian, and then for a while a farmer over at State. Keep on Bobbie, you'll get to Atlantic Christian College yet. If all the colleges pay athletes as much as the full-artists would have us believe, it wouldn't be a bad idea to read up on Rummy or Checkers sometime and get a good berth next year. The Southern Championship this year is more of a muddle than ever. W. & L., Ga. Tech, Florida, Auburn, Georgia, and Center are still in the ring but none of them, except Florida, look as strong as in days gone by. For instance, Notre Dame walloped Tech, Army mauled Florida and Auburn, Yale frocked Georgia, and Pennsylvania sent Center parking. It's a sad history for the South this year. Six first-string men out of harness for three quarters of the Columbia game may not account for all of the 30 points, but it must have counted for something.

CLASS BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Oct. 23.—Seniors 33, Sophs. 19.
Oct. 26.—Juniors 25, Fresh. 26.
Oct. 30.—Seniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 2.—Juniors vs. Sophs.
Nov. 6.—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Nov. 9.—Seniors vs. Juniors.
Nov. 13.—Seniors vs. Sophs.
Nov. 20.—Seniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 16.—Juniors vs. Fresh.
Nov. 23.—Juniors vs. Sophs.
Nov. 27.—Sophs vs. Fresh.
Nov. 30.—Seniors vs. Juniors.

James Spratt Moore Football—D**
“The Midget Marvel of Southern Football,” was the title bestowed upon this scrapping gridiron warrior that wore the Red and Black for three years. Though small of stature and light as a summer breeze, Spratt proved the most consistent ground gainer that followed the Wildcat standard through those years in which some of the best games ever played by Davidson teams took place. Spratt came here from Citadel with a reputation as long as a doctor's bill, and soon proved himself one of the best backfield men ever to wear the Red and Black. Rumor had it that a football marvel had come to Davidson and was then on the sidelines to start practice. The head coach hustled over to meet the newcomer, expecting to see a veritable giant in frame and with the look of a fierce tiger. When shown Spratt, who was seated on a bench, he said, "Who? Him? That little fellow football. He ain't good grammar school size much less big enough to play for our teams." However, Spratt dived into practice and showed his superiority. Although surrounded by a galaxy of stars, he rose to great heights from the very outset, even among them. He proved his ability to punt, pass, or run with equal facility, and his football knowledge developed in three years in prep school and two years at the University of South Carolina. He had a remarkable way of diagnosing the opponent's play even before they were called, and never missed his man, throwing him with a tackle for which he was famous. Citadel stood him in good stead. He developed a facility for booting the pigskin oval over the bar from almost any point on the field and more than once a safety he called into play. Spratt’s specialty was skirting the ends for long sweeping end runs that meant victory for Davidson if he could get away with only a man or two for him to dodge as he pursued his way down the chalk lines twisting like an eel with colic. Too, he could hit the line like a high-powered bullet and squirm his way through the least pretense of an opening. He was the greatest ground gainer for the Wildcats during the seasons of 1920 and 1921. Time after time in games with odds against him he showed the real mettle that took him through the whole time without ever being knocked out. Especially noticeable was his brilliant performance in the fall of 1914, when he made the most score of any back on the team and also gained more ground. In the hard-contested game with Carolina that year which resulted in a tie, this midget back tore off great hunks of territory and made tackle after tackle when on the defensive side. The game with Richmond University did he excel. Many sports writers slated him as an all-state back, and on the second team of the all-Davidson selection since 1921, Spratt’s name appears. Although only a rising Junior he was unanimously elected Captain of the 1922 crew at the end of the season in 1921. In the season of 1922 he got off to a bad start due to sickness, but in mid-season regained his old-time form and speed. He established new track records by speeding around the enemy’s territory with the ball clasped under his arm. Spratt Moore was as popular on the campus as he was on the football field. He belonged to the S. A. E. fraternity and was a member of the college orchestra. Following up his long-acquired taste for football, he is coaching this game in the high school at Dunn, N. C.

Franklin Fricker, the lad with the big glasses, who used to puff around the track with us when we were Freshmen, steps into fame with a clean-cut victory over Cornell in a cross-country. Franklin’s time was 20 minutes for the four-mile course. They say Franklin has built an addition to his house to care for his medals and cups. Stick with ‘em, Fricker, old boy.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT— Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention. Southern Awning & Decorating Co. 9 E Fifth St CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FRICKER, FORMER WILDCAT STAR, DEFEATS CORNELL
Some of the student body, but more especially the alumni, will be interested to hear from one of the important members of the class of ‘21, Franklin Fricker who broke the mile track record when he was in Davidson. Fricker is now at Boston Tech and on October 27, he won the cross-country run against Cornell. Fricker’s time for the approximately four-mile course was 20 min. 30 1-5 sec. He finished 220 yards ahead of his rival. Fricker is a Senior at Boston Tech this year and he is especially important because of the fact that since he finished Davidson he has made track work and long-distance running his profession. He has won for himself great fame as well as a room full of trophies as receipts of his victories for a great number of athletic associations for whom he has raced. He keeps in perfect shape 12 months in the year by keeping a private trainer. Last year, when Speck McConnell broke Fricker’s record on the mile, Fricker sent him congratulations saying that his old record here was too slow and he wished to congratulate Speck on breaking it. There is no telling what his next record will be.

DRAMATIC CLUB PRESENTS THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS
(Continued from page 1)
The plays published by the Dramatic Club last year are receiving recognition. On Tuesday morning, October 16, the Dramatic Club of the Central High School in Charlotte presented the comedy, “I Do,” written last year by E. T. Woolfolk, and produced by the Davidson Dramatic Club at Junior Speaking. This High School production was very successful, indicating that the work of local Dramatic Club artists will not be necessarily confined to the college.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL
Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have it.
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents