Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief.
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor.
S. McILWAINE, Assistant Managing Editor
L. C. HALE, Associate Editor
W. McCOX, Associate Editor
F. T. ROOD, Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN, Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY, Associate Editor
W. M. HESTON, Associate Editor
R. R. JONES, Alumni Editor

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. L. PRICE, Business Manager
WATT McCAIN, Circulation Manager
P. J. STORY, Subscription Manager

ASSISTANTS
J. L. McLEAN
W. H. CROMWELL
J. A. THOMPSON
G. A. McCLAIN

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WALTHALL, D. B., President
BROWN, W. P.
MONK, C. F.
WHARTON, D. B., Vice President
CALHOUN, M. P.
POMEROY, W. L.
EARNEST, J. R.
ROGERS, G. D.
PATTON, J. H., Secretary-Treasurer
TREEN, J. I.
SELSER, T. M.
ALLISON, O. J.
A. M. SME
AUSTIN, JAC
McMILLAN, STORY, F. T.
BEALL, McP. S.
MILTON, W. E.
WEIMER, H. M.
BOWIE, A. Y.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
MOORE, W. H.

It is with sincerity that the student body extends their sympathy to Alfred Moffett, who was called home last week at the death of his mother.

AN OPPORTUNITY
Junior Speaking was an eye-opener, the Soph Banquet proved to be a success in every respect; now, the student eye is focused on Commencement. The Seniors have one chance left to them for covering themselves with glory, and it is reasonably certain that they will advantageously use this opportunity. Certainly they will if they employ the same tactics which made Junior Speaking last year such a successful event. Commencement has never meant more to the three lower classes of Davidson than an early opportunity to go home, and due to the lack of interest shown by these classes, it has not even meant as much as it should to the Seniors. Excepting no occasion during the college year, Commencement should be the biggest affair on the year’s calendar. The class of ’23 set a precedent for future Junior classes; will she do as much for future Senior Classes?

OPEN FORUM
After the three month’s trial agreed upon when the idea was first proposed, the Court of Control has been permanently installed by the student-body. Enough time has elapsed for a good working basis to be determined, and meetings have been held every week. In every way it is working to measure up to the expectations of the three upper classes, and to show that it can do all that hazing did in the way of keeping up freshman pep, and a great deal more than hazing could ever have done.

A new court will be elected as soon as the student-council is elected. From now on, the Freshmen will be required to march to all baseball games in a group and sit together. The present Court began work under a handicap, in that it started out in the middle of the year, but next year the Fresh will be started in the straight and narrow path from the first.

The fact remains, however, that the support of the entire student body is necessary for complete success. There is no room for those prophets of evil who predict that the Court will become another Vigilance Committee. Since every man has pledged himself to abolish hazing, the old ideas of controlling new men will have to be forgotten in backing the Court. The new step has the unqualified approval of the outside world, and it is up to the men of Davidson to show what real Davidson spirit is, and to make it go. The Senior class originated the idea, and the three upper classes of next year have a big job ahead of them. Let’s back them to the limit!

“A PUSHER.”

Wildcat Nine Fronts Stiff Bill During Next Week
(Continued from Page 1)
According to the dope sheet Clemson should put it all over us, but as it has been said before, you never can tell. Furman this year has about broken even on the diamond. The game scheduled with Furman here was cancelled on account of a wet field, so nothing can be derived from that source. Clemson beat Furman three times, and by a good margin each time, but lost to Trinity by the close score of 2-0 in a hard fought contest, and as Trinity is doped to have one of the strongest teams in the state this year, look out Wildcats when you meet the Purple Hurricane.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

EXCHANGE
To those who have entertained hopes of leaving college early to farm, a disappointment is in store. Last term the farmer boys were permitted to leave college early to farm because their country had just declared war and was in a state of turmoil and excitement, but now that conditions have become more normal and business has settled down the faculty has decided that it is not worth while to break into the college term by permitting a part of the student body to go home before examinations.

IS THERE ANYTHING YOU CAN'T DO
If you think you're outclassed
You are!
You've got to think high to rise.
You've got to be sure of yourself before
You can win a prize.
Life’s battles don't always go
To the stronger or faster man
For sooner or later the man who wins
Is the fellow who thinks “HE CAN”.
—Exchange.

The friends of Dr. J. M. McConnell will be glad to hear that another honor has been conferred on him. He has been appointed by Gov. T. W. Bickett as a delegate to the 27th annual meeting of the American Academy of Political and Social Sciences. The conference meets in Philadelphia, April 26, 27, 1918.

MAJOR McCONNELL SPEAKS ON ARMY Y. M. C. A.
At the last meeting of the Y. M. C. A. Maj. McConnell, a former member of the Davidson College faculty and now a member of the hospital corps at Camp Jackson, gave a very interesting address to the Y. M. C. A. on the Y. M. C. A. work in the army camps. He showed how the Y. M. C. A. 

BACKWARD, TURN BACKWARD
Backward, turn backward, Oh Time in thy flight,
And give us the girl with ankles in sight!
The girl with the common-sense dresses knee-high—
(That are lots nicer looking, and cheaper to buy!)
Not the girl of to-day, with her long flapping gown,
That looks like she’d torn the hall-curtain down,
And wrapped it around her and hurriedly fled,
With her Venus-(?)-like figure to turn the boy’s head.
Yes, backward, turn backward, and give us the miss
Who hasn't quite reached her nine-hundredth kiss;
And if she did kiss—just one or two slips,
She at least didn’t transfer her red rosy lips!
And when out walking with Jimmy, passing numerous bands,
At least out in public could refrain swinging hands!

FALL IN
The leaders of campus activity for the next college year have been chosen, and they are beginning to set things in motion to make the ensuing year one of history. During the next five weeks plans will be worked out and policies will be moulded for the new year’s work. These men, chosen by you for the place they can most ably fill, are instruments in your hands. They are not chosen as monarchs of the student body, but as representatives of every man who calls Davidson his alma mater. It is the part of every man on the Hill, then, to fall in line with the newly elected officers. The work is just begun. Will you pledge yourself to back up the line, or will you stand

Several Americans and an Englishman were touring in England and the Americans were very much amused at a roadside sign reading: “Three miles to London, if you can't read ask the blacksmith.” When nearing London the Englishman burst out laughing saying that he had just caught thejoke idly by and watch the game drag? When asked what it was he replied, “Suppose the blacksmith wasn’t at home.” —Mug-pee. On the other hand, Furman has won most. Turn back, Father Tempus, turn back we entreat, From these long, floppy dresses, that tangle the feet. —Crimson-White.

Captain—What are you scratching your head for, Rufus?
Colored Private—Aw, sah, I got arithmetic bugs.
Captain—What are arithmetic bugs?
Private—Dey’s cooties.
Captain—Why do you call them arithmetic bugs?
Private—’Cause dey add to misery, dey subtract from mah pleasure, and divide mah interest. —Exr.

MYSELF
Edgar A. Guest

The Anti-smoke League of Pittsburgh could find an extensive field for their endeavor at Davidson during the Saturday night movie shows.

Of the thoughts on construction brought out:
Rube Curdts asks that his room be padded and that the doors be fitted with felt doorknobs; Jew Fleming demands that shelves and counters shall be part of his new equipment.

RUBE CURDTS DEMANDS PADDED CELL IN WATTS

Watts, one of the main buildings on Dormitory Street, has recently been removed to a new location immediately to the rear of West. It is now number three Temporary Alley. This marvelous feat has been accomplished by the Stiles Destruction Company which was ably assisted by the Lindamood-McComb wrecking concern.

A new Watts is to be erected on Dormitory Row and it is claimed that it will far surpass old Watts in every way possible, even in water throwing. It is to be at least a ten-story building with elevators and all other modern contrivances. Each suite of three rooms is to have a private bath—At least that is what almost everyone thinks, judging from the rush which is being made on Mr. Jackson’s sanctum to obtain rooms. Mr. Jackson sits in his office and hears the woeful tales of would-be Wattites. Here's the interest of all for if she be constructed according to the desires of the future inhabitants she will look like either a corkscrew or a made-to-order house put together by Heck McRainey.

Speedy Carr wants his made into a conservatory; Stout Montgomery and Arbuthnot are going to hang out together and they request that their room be made twice the usual size; Johnny Simpson stated that he would consider rooming there provided the College would paper his walls with Coles Phillips’ art; Scott and Finn want theirs to be made soundproof (so does everybody else for that matter). There were numerous other requests and suggestions but these are the outstanding ones. And so the rush for rooms goes on while Mr. Jackson has threatened to call out Captain George’s gallant warriors to aid him in holding back the crowds. Everybody seems to have the same idea at the same time for they all arrive at the same time in trying to get there.

R. C. Deal, 1900, is Superintendent of Schools at Elizabethtown, N. C., in Bladen County.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY, APRIL 19th
7:15 P. M.—Eu. Society.
7:30 P. M.—Phi. Society.

FRIDAY, APRIL 20TH
3:30 P. M.—Dual Meet, Clemson vs. Davidson, Tennis Tournament.
10:00 P. M.—Reporter’s Club.

SATURDAY, APRIL 21ST
3:30 P. M.—Elon vs. Davidson, Baseball.
7:30 P. M.—“The Christian.”

SUNDAY, APRIL 22ND
10:00 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A. M.—Ministerial Band.
11:00 A. M.—Church Services.
1:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Class.
3:30 P. M.—Sunday School.
6:15 P. M.—“Y” Service.

MONDAY, APRIL 23RD
3:30 P. M.—Elon vs. Davidson, Baseball.

TUESDAY, APRIL 24TH
7:30 P. M.—Pandemic Society.
8:00 P. M.—Metropolitan Society.

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 25TH
Wofford vs. Davidson at Spartanburg, S. C.
9:00 P. M.—Bible Classes.

I have to live by myself and so I want to be fit for myself to know. I want to be able, as days go by, always to look myself straight in the eye; I don’t want to stand, with the setting sun, and hate myself for things I’ve done. I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf a lot of secrets about myself, and fool myself, as I come and go, into thinking that nobody else will know the kind of a man I really am; I don’t want to dress up myself in sham. I want to go with my head erect, I want to deserve all men’s respect; but here in the struggle for fame and self I want to be able to like myself. I don’t want to look at myself and know that I'm bluster and bluff and empty show. I can never hide myself from me; I see what others may never see; I know what others may never know, I never can fool myself, and so, whatever happens, I want to be self-respecting and conscience-free.

The Davidsonian is a great invention
The school gets all the fame
The printers get all the money
The editors get all the blame.

No matter how healthy a bow-legged girl may be, she's always in poor shape. —Selected.

The first fellow boasts of a B. S. degree.
The next one steps forth with a hard-earned M. E.
Another one calmly displays LL.D.,
While all I could offer was R. O. T. C. —Hullabaloo.

RECIPE FOR A TOMBSTONE
Take one reckless, natural born fool. Two or three drinks of bad liquor. Soak fool well in liquor, place in the car and let him go. After due time remove the wreckage, place in satin box, and garnish with flowers.

The Anti-smoke League of Pittsburgh could find an extensive field for their endeavor at Davidson during the Saturday night movie shows.

The intersociety debate between the Junior-Senior teams of the two literary societies will be held on Monday night, April 29. The subject for debate is: Resolved that Congress shall enact legislation for the compulsory arbitration of all disputes between organized labor and corporations, constitutionality waived.” The Phi team composed of Neel, McClure and Currie will uphold the affirmative, while the negative will be defended by Orgain, Thomas and Potts of the Eu society. The intersociety debating cup which has been won for two years by the Phi society will be the award of the winner so a hotly contested debate is expected.

The Reel Stuff

The attraction for this week is The Christian, adapted from the famous novel and play by Sir Hall Caine, with Richard Dix, Mae Busch, Gareth Hughes, Phyllis Haver, and Mahlon Hamilton. It is directed by Maurice Tourneur. The Christian is considered one of the really big productions of the year. The author gave his assistance to the director in securing the proper atmosphere and in getting the consent of the London authorities to photograph the mob scene in Trafalgar Square—the first time such a permission has been granted. The story of The Christian is well known to readers and frequenters of the theatre. It concerns the efforts of John Storm, a Christian socialist, to live as Christ would live, and his struggle to free himself from his love for Glory Quayle.

On April 28th Robin Hood will be shown at Davidson. It is an Allan Dwan production featuring Douglas Fairbanks. The picture follows closely the old popular ballads of Robin Hood. Among the characters are Robin Hood, Friar Tuck, Little John and the Sheriff of Nottingham. There are tournament scenes and the siege of a castle. Robin Hood is said by the foremost critics to be the greatest production of the year as well as one of the three greatest pictures ever produced.