10 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

Washington and Lee Man Presents Foreign Field From New and Attractive Angle.

Mr. Gillam spoke on the subject, Why I Am Going Back to the Mission Field. He said that it was
a selfish motive because he could find more happiness there than anywhere else in the world. His address, in brief,
follows:

“There are many hardships to that life, but the joys far exceed them. The heat is hard to endure. Isolation
from friends, from civilization, from being close to and hearing about the great world movements, is hard. The upkeep of
one’s spiritual life in the midst of the degraded pagan influences is hard. The discouragement over lost opportunities is hard—opportunities
lost simply because the already overtaxed time of the missionaries falls far short from meeting the demands upon their attention:
they have not time to meet all their opportunities.

“The joys, however, far outstrip the discouragements. In the first place, we are preparing the country for civilization; we want
to give the people Christianity before civilization comes in, not that we are opposed to civilization, but the natives in
coming into contact with the Western culture absorb only the worst that is in it, especially as there are rather
poor representatives of the West out there who are there for pure profit.

“Then again, there is plenty to do. It is no small man’s task; one man has to do six men’s
jobs. In the section of country about my station there are from two to three million souls. Christ only will
regenerate Africa. Dr. Mott Martin said that on one of his preaching itineraries, 40 or 50 towns and villages asked
him for a preacher or teacher, but they had to be turned down because there were not enough missionaries out
there to train enough native workers.

“Education is badly needed. The people are eager for knowledge. On one occasion some school boys asked for a course
in advanced French. I consented to teach them, and went the next day with the hope of having possibly 15
pupils. I found 150. This being too large a number, I eliminated all but the two upper classes there, leaving
about 80. The next day when I was teaching, I heard a noise in the back of the room, and
upon investigation, found that many others that had been turned out the day before, were under the seats with pencil
and paper eagerly taking down every bit of French they could. Many times children come to my door with eggs
or a hen in order to buy books, but often have to be refused because, due to the lack of
translators and printers, only an insufficient supply of books can be had. Often on my country trips, people will beg
to be brought back to the boarding schools. Little children come wedging their way to me while I am talking,
nudge me in the side, and beg to be taken and put in school.

“There is great joy in putting a poor, sinful, ignorant man to work for the Master by instilling into him
the story and spirit of Jesus. Our work over there has primarily to do with character: the heart must come
first, which can only be changed by Christ. We want men, but only men that will teach Christ first. We
do not want second rate men; we want men who can and want to do more than his own profession—men
bigger than their jobs. The man that goes there as a missionary must have vision. It takes vision as well
as effort to convert a half a dozen little children, taught by a native that knows little himself into a
flourishing vocational school. The real joy of the missionary is in seeing the work grow.

“It’s a thrill too, in knowing that you are the first man that ever told your audience the story of
Jesus. There’s a joy in feeling that one’s life is aligned according to God’s plan. God has a purpose for
every individual, and no one will be happy until he has answered the call of service for his own life.”

STIRRING ADDRESS ON AFRICA DELIVERED BY FRANK J. GILLIAM AT Y. M. C. A. VESPER

N. C. YOUNG PEOPLE MEET AT DAVIDSON, JUNE 12-19

Davidson will be the mecca for many young people of North Carolina during the week of June 12-19. This will
mark the yearly Young People’s Conference of the Synod of North Carolina. Last year a similar conference was held at
Davidson, 279 representatives attending the conference. For the last four consecutive years these conferences have been held, and have been
the sources of great inspiration to the young people attending. Some of the best speakers of the Southern Presbyterian church
are obtained for these conferences, at which time courses are given in Sunday School work, Home Missions, Foreign Missions, Bible
Study, and Young People’s work. The day is always full, the mornings being devoted to study, but the afternoons being
devoted to recreation and rest. The most impressive meetings of all are the Vesper services, which are held in the
open air under the beautiful trees of the campus. Arnett Gamble was in charge of local arrangements at Davidson last
year, and he is again doing that this year. Several Davidson students remain for the conference and this year will
in all likelihood see an increased number.

——D. C. E.

TRAINING CLASS GOES TO MOORESVILLE

Last Saturday night just after the moving picture show the Christian Endeavor Training Class had its second annual meeting and
feed. The members met in the Civic League Hall and combined eating with a social good time, after which

PARSONS DISCUSS PLANS FOR SUMMER

In spite of the fact that no program had been arranged for the weekly meeting of the Ministerial Band on
Sunday morning, an intensely interesting program was enjoyed by all present. The meeting was thrown open for discussion on any
topic which might be of interest to ministerial students. Practical and helpful extemporaneous speeches were heard with much interest from
Baker, Burney, Deck and Fraser, which mostly concerned the subject of summer work for members of the Band. Baker mentioned
things along the line of religious work that might profitably occupy a man during the summer vacation even when he
is at home without any regular job, such as, country Sunday Schools, convict camps, or any place where religious leaders
are needed. Burney gave an inspiring talk, relating some of his experiences while doing work in the mountains last summer.
He pictured the life and surroundings of these people in the mountains and rural districts of our own homeland, where
religion, education, civilization and high ideals are supposed to be supreme. He said there were the most gruesome and lowest
depths to which a human being could descend. “After all, we are responsible for this condition ofaffairs. Are we going
to measure up to our duty and responsibility?” Deck related some of his experiences in Mission work in East Tennessee,
while Fraser offered helpful suggestions regarding profitable and serviceable summer work.

CONCORD PASTOR TO SPEAK AT Y SERVICE

Rev. J. C. Rowan, Pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, has been secured as the speaker to address
the Y. M. C. A. next Sunday morning. Doctor Rowan is said by those who have known him for many
years to be a wonderful interpreter of the Word of God.

SUSTAINED INTEREST IN MID-WEEK CLASSES

In a meeting of the Bible Class leaders last week, Professor Foreman gave a thoughtful account of Issachar and Zebulon,
the sons of Jacob. He pointed out that though these were obscure men, yet many of their descendants became great.
The lesson for the present-day man is that he ought to try to be greater than his ancestors. It was
noted that the tribe of Issachar readily submitted to servitude. One thing that accounts for this is that they lived
in the plain of Esdraelon where there were no natural barriers to protect them against foreign foes. It was noted
that people who are usually regarded as lovers of liberty are those who have natural barriers to protect them against
their enemies. Students have been turning out well to the classes on most floors, and considerable interest has been shown
in the study of Jacob’s sons.

Who made you fall; then let you lay? Your girl. Then taunted you with laughter gay— Your girl. And who
came with you to the prom, And flirted with your roommate, Tom, Then petted him when you were gone? Your
girl. Who broke your heart with words untrue— Your girl. And also broke your bank-roll, too? Your girl.

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOLS SHOW GREATER NUMBERS

The Mission Sunday Schools of the Y. M. C. A. seem to be improving in attendance and interest since the
spring has come. The students have been attending these Sunday Schools in sufficient numbers to always furnish a good supply
of teachers.

TEACHER
Mrs. W. R. Grey - Young Ladies
Mrs. Locke Currie - Primary Department
Miss Clara Smith - Junior Girls
Pat Crawford - Boys
Mr. F. L. Jackson - Men
Wallace Purdy - Musician

The attendance for last Sunday was forty-one.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Reports were made for the past year’s work and election of officers for the coming year held. The retiring officers
were: Leader of the Class, W. A. Gamble; President, Lee McLean; Vice-President, Wallace Purdy; Secretary, Edmund O’Connor; Treasurer, J. M.
Carr. The newly elected officers are: Leader, Lee McLean; President, Wallace Purdy; Vice-President, A. H. Hollingsworth; Secretary, A. Y. Bowie;
Treasurer, B. U. Ratchford.

Especially noteworthy among the reports was that concerning the deputations, of which fourteen have been sent out during the last
year. On Sunday night twenty members of the Class were taken to Mooresville, where they put on a special program
at the evening service of the First Presbyterian Church, the congregations of this Church and the Second Church uniting for
the service. Many visitors were also present, the entire crowd being so great that extra chairs were brought in. The
program of the Class consisted of a poorly conducted C. E. meeting and then a model C. E. meeting. The
first meeting was conducted by a leader who arrived fifteen minutes late and conducted his meeting in a very careless
manner. During this meeting there walked across the scene at proper intervals the ghosts of “Leader Late,” “Same Old Song,
No. 54” and “Clippings, we all read them,” etc. After this meeting the “president” of the society made a stirring
speech urging the members to do away with these ghosts and to have a live meeting. The model C. E.
Prayer meeting was then conducted, supplanting the ghosts with a wide-awake meeting.

LIBRARY ADDS SEVERAL BOOKS TO COLLECTION

Among the recent books added to the college library are two which should be of interest to all the students.
One of these, “A Vision Realized,” was received from a friend in Lenoir. The other is a book received from
Paris giving the record of the work done by the American Relief Clearing House during the war.

“A Vision Realized” is the life story of Rev. J. A. Oertel, an Episcopalian clergyman and a noted artist. Doctor
Oertel has spent a greater portion of his life in Western North Carolina.

He is greatly interested in the problems of young men, and has won the love and admiration of young men
wherever he is known. Davidson and the work of Davidson students is of special interest to Doctor Rowan, he himself
being a Davidson alumnus. Having been in Concord less than one year, Doctor Rowan has become an outstanding man in
the community. He was called to the Concord Church from the First Presbyterian Church of Columbus, Mississippi, in which city
he had done a great work.

GOOBERS FOR THE PEANUT PARCHER

There’s a niche in the world for you, my girl,
A corner for you to fill,
And a work to do
Which no one but you
In God’s great plan can fill.
The world wants you
So, dear, be true;
And your place is waiting still.
—Selected.

Nashville, Tenn. Wednesday, May 9th, 11:00 A.M.—Graduating exercises in the Seminary Chapel. Presentation of diplomas and address by Rev. John
M. Wells, D. D., L. L. D., president of the Seminary.

Baccalaureate Sermon—First Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at 11:30 A.M., by Rev. Alexander Martin, D. D., pastor of the Oakland
Avenue Presbyterian Church, of Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Sermon before The Society of Missionary Inquiry—Arsenal Hill Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at 8:00 P.M., by Rev. Walter L.
Caldwell, D. D., pastor of the Woodland Street Presbyterian Church.

Tuesday, May 8th, 12M.—Meeting of the Board of Directors of Columbia Seminary.

Tuesday, May 8th, 8:00 P.M.—Inaugural address of Rev. James B. Green, D. D., as Professor of Theology. First Presbyterian Church.
Hon. John T. Brantley, president of the Board, presiding.

Let her know on Mother’s Day how dear a sweetheart she is with THE WORLD'S FINEST CANDIES.
