THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

ATHLETIC NEWS

The Wildcats want to lick Carolina with all hands on deck, so best o’ luck, Sparrow.

Yard Lines
The fast back from U. of California; Buch- Trinity only beat Guilford 66-0 in 10 minutes, using 24 subs. In a full-length

Dormitory Rooms
A dormitory is a building composed of many rooms. In each room, there are one or two roomers, according to the room which is in the room. Some rooms have more room.

Gobblers Anxious For Vengeance On Wildcats
Davidson Meets V. P. I. at Blacksburg in Hardest Battle of Season

Admittedly the hardest game on Davidson’s schedule will be played this week at Blacksburg, Va., when the Red and Black machine invades V. P. I.’s territory. The Gobblers, who last year were held to a score of 7-7 on Sprunt Field, will be waiting eagerly for the opportunity of wreaking vengeance on the Wildcats. Dope has it that their chances will be very good for inflicting said vengeance.

In the line, the Techmen can count on six heavy letter men—Rodes, at end; Baker, Green, and Graham, at tackles; Roe and Shertz, at guard—averaging about 180 pounds. At center, Moran will add 190 pounds of avoirdupois to the line-up. From last year’s Freshman team, Holley will step into a wing position, while Hammock, another Sophomore, will be making someone hustle for a berth at tackle.

In the backfield, Sutton will probably guide the Gobblers as captain and quarter—the same Sutton who gave Davidson so much trouble last year. Rutherford, whose toe shoved the pigskin across for two field goals last week against Hampden-Sidney; Flory, and Flanagan, whose 180 pounds have smashed many a line—the four letter men will probably start the game with Davidson.

But there is another side to the dope sheet. V. P. I. has lost some good men from the '22 team—Wallace, whom Davidson men remember as a hard-charging half; Hardwick, Moore, Wilson, Tilson, the last named now throwing his every energy into building up a defense against his former teammates. Coach Cubbage is puzzled, too, about the position of quarterback, although Sutton seems the logical man for the place.

The Tech team averages about 175 pounds as compared with D. C.’s approximate 158. Last year, however, the odds were just as great against our “scrapping Wildcats,” and dope was spilled all over Sprunt Field when prospects of crushing defeat were turned into a tie score and a moral victory.

V. P. I. has played one game this season, defeating Hampden-Sidney on September 28th by 29 to 0. In 1922 the score was 35 to 9, which seems to indicate a weakening on the part of the Gobblers.

Coach “Monk” is familiar with the tactics of V. P. I. and will spend the last ounce of his energy in building up a wall of defense against her attack. Davidson men were never known to accept defeat until a game was over, and so eleven Wildcats, with bared claws, will trot onto the Blacksburg field this Saturday to show Virginia what real fight means.

TWO ROUNDS COMPLETED IN TENNIS TOURNAMENT
Staley, Price, and Beall Favored to Enter Semi-finals

Fifty-four men dug up their racquets last week to enter the tennis tournament and the courts have since been crowded with the followers of Big Tilden, those who have progressed along the dusty trail to the ninth heaven and those who are yet unacquainted with the russet tinge that clings so close to would-be athletes at Davidson.

Staley, Price, and Beall, letter men from last year's strong team, are out in front and will probably meet in the finals and championship match. Staley beat Covington handily, 6-2, 6-1, but was pushed a little in his match with McCutchen, although he succeeded in winning in straight sets, 6-3, 8-6. He is now matched against Reeves, who overcame Simpson and Currie in the first two rounds. Parker will play the winner, he having met Williams, and Cooke, defeating the latter only after a long struggle, 6-4, 5-7, 6-4. Parker then won against Walthall, who had previously beaten McLean, 6-2, 6-4, by the score 6-1, 6-3.

In the second group, the one without a letter man, Vic Brown beat Gregg only to lose to Mattison 6-8, 4-6 in a dope-overturning match. Mattison previously beat Wilkinson 6-3, 6-2, and is now up against Trotter, who had little difficulty in advancing over another Brown, 6-3, 6-3, and Alexander 6-3, 5-7, 6-2. The winner ofThe Trotter-Mattison match will play Wharton, who has progressed over Hamilton, and Austin, in straight sets, but was forced to the limit to beat Ray Carr 6-4, 5-7, 9-7. Carr had defeated McLean 6-1, 6-4, after drawing a bye in the first round.

In the third group, Morrison beat Story and is matched with Jones, who beat Thompson 6-3, 12-10. McAlpine beat White, Williams beat Guiton, and McAlpine advanced over Williams 6-3, 6-1. Price has had easy sailing through, beating Buckner 6-0, 6-3, and Beal 6-1, 6-1. He meets McLeod, winner over Minam and Sullivan, and the dope favors him.

The loss of Sparrow means that Davidson stock against Carolina will take another leap, but we hate to see it leap that way. Perhaps things are not as bad as they look and Sparrow will be back in harness by November 1.

"Carolina is weak or Wake Forest is strong," we learn from the daily press. Undoubtedly, since the score was only 22-0 as against 63-3 last year. But with Heckman and Stringfield gone from Wake Forest, and "Red" Johnson and the others gone from Carolina, it looks more like both Carolina and Wake Forest might be a little stronger.

Which means, some game in Charlotte on Turkey day.

Black takes the dog with the rubber tail for being the chief ground gainer Saturday. The statistics line up:
Black, 57.
Shepard, 48.
Hendrix, 27.
Covington, 13.

If the Davidson schedule ever looked easy, some of those games Saturday knocked the durn thing lop-sided. Clemson tying Auburn and Furman beating Virginia, not to mention Trinity again, looks like a couple of Golden Tornadoes gathering on the horizon.

Which reminds us that the original Golden Tornado looks like a gentle glump of air on a sultry spring morning. But still, "you never can tell."

But then Hunt kicked the goal.

Next week will show all of our opponents in action:
Davidson vs. V. P. I., at Blacksburg.
North Carolina vs. Yale, at New Haven.
N. C. State vs. Penn State, at Raleigh.
Clemson vs. Newberry, at Clemson.
Mercer vs. Furman, at Macon.
P. C. vs. South Carolina, at Columbia.
Wake Forest vs. Guilford, at Wake Forest.
Trinity vs. Randolph-Macon, at Durham.
Citadel vs. Erskine, at Charleston.
Elon vs. Lynchburg, at Lynchburg.

Samples now on display.

P. C. BUSTED
Davidson (3) P.C. of S.C. (0)

Faison (Capt.) ------------ Brown
Summers ----------------- Martin
Right Tackle
Vance -------------------- Norton
Right Guard
Mallory ------------------ Miller (Capt.)
Hodgin ------------------- Bomar
Davis -------------------- Mason
Left End
Hendrix ------------------ Hindman
Quarterback
Shepherd ----------------- Pearce
Right Halfback
Black -------------------- Clinton
Left Halfback
DeArmon ----------------- Moore
Fullback

Score by periods:
Davidson P. C.
Scoring: Davidson Goal from placement—Hunt.

Substitutions: Davidson—Laird for Hodgin; Cox for Vance; Fields for Mallory; Hodgin for Laird; Boggs for Long; Covington for DeArmon; Vance for Cox; Hunt for Covington. P. C.—McLaurin for Martin; Edwards for Campbell; Roberson for Clinton; Bailey for Brown.

Referee: Perry (Sewanee). Umpires: Street (Auburn). Head Linesman: Whitaker (N. C. State). Time of Quarters: 15 minutes. Attendance: 4,000.

Beall has beaten Shelton 6-1, 6-2, and Moore 6-2, 4-6, 7-5, in a harder match than expected and is to meet Wells, who vanquished Lindley 6-3, 8-10, 8-6. Beall will probably have an interesting fight with Wells but should have no serious difficulty. The winner will meet McBryde in the fourth round. Aided by two byes and a good match with Williford, which was all McBryde after the middle close set, going to 6-1, 9-11, 6-0, he will have a hard fight in the semi-finals and a win will put him up among the first four.

SIGMA UPSILON ELECTS

(Continued from page 1)

Work will be required, but the benefits to be derived are such that make the effort worthwhile. An appreciable amount of work is expected to be accomplished by the fraternity this year, which will tend to broaden and help the members.

THE FIGURES NEVER LIE

Total First Downs
First Downs on Penalties
Number of Plays Run
Forward Passes Attempted
Forward Passes Completed
Forward Passes Intercepted
Ground Gained, Passes
Ground Gained, End Runs
Ground Gained, Off Tackle
Ground Gained, Over Line
Net Gain From Scrimmage
Penalties
Oppos. Fumbles Recovered
Kick Offs
Avg. Length Kick Offs
Average Return Kick Offs
Number Punts
Length Punts
Average Length Punts
Return Punts
Average Return Punts

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere else; it’s smartly cut; the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have it.