THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

DAVIDSON DEBATERS WILL MEET TRINITY

The intercollegiate debate with Trinity will take place on the evening of Friday, April 27th, in Shearer Hall. The men
who will uphold the forensic record of Davidson on this occasion are Liston Elkins, Albert Hillhouse, and Warren Cox, with
Joe Baldwin as alternate. The subject for debate is: Resolved, That the issuance of tax-exempt securities should be forbidden by
an amendment to the Federal Constitution. Davidson will defend the negative of this question. The subject is one of the
most interesting questions for debate that could be secured, and the debate on Friday night promises to be a good
one in every respect.

The team has been working hard on the debate ever since the preliminaries with the assistance of Professor Wagner. The
order of the speakers will be: Elkins, Hillhouse, Cox. The first two of the men are from the Eumenean Society
while Warren Cox is a Pandeinic. All three of the men are members of the Junior Class and have been
very prominent in debating activities in their various societies. Cox and Elkins are presidents of their respective societies, and Hillhouse
has also held several offices. According to the record, this is the first time that Davidson has met Trinity on
the debating platform. For many years, however, the rivals have faced each other in various intercollegiate contests. This year seems
so far to have gone to Trinity in most of the athletic events, but the Wildcat debating squadron has determined
to secure revenge next Friday night. Trinity has sent successful teams this year against Swarthmore and the University of New
York.

PANDEINICS INSTALL NEXT YEAR'S OFFICERS

At the regular meeting of the Pandeinic Society last Tuesday, an interesting program was enjoyed. The new officers were installed
and a splendid address was given by Warren Cox, president for the next term. The other officers installed were: V.
President, H. B. Price; Secretary, Forrest Franklin; Critic, D. B. Walthall; Second Critic, C. M. S. McIlwaine; Treasurer, A. P.
Hudgins; Sergeant-at-arms, L. L. Deck. The men on for debate were Young and Milton for the affirmative; Yeargen and Bevo
Davis for the negative. The discussion was good and the decision of the house and the judges was in favor
of the negative. Arnett Gamble and Wallace Moore each gave an extemporaneous oration. Gamble’s topic was, “Why I know so
much about girls,” and Moore spoke on a subject of like nature. Both of these orations were ably given and
both speakers seemed to get their facts from experience. The declaimer for the evening was McCarty, who ably presented The
Message to Garcia. The program was closed with the current events given by Perrin Hudgins, who presented some very interesting
facts.

GAVEL AND FORUM RECEIVE 3 NEW MEN

The initiation of Dr. J. M. McConnell, J. C. Bailey, and W. A. Gamble occupied the entire time at the
weekly meeting of the Gavel and Forum, held last Wednesday evening in the Delta Theta Chi Hall. Doctor McConnell and
W. A. Gamble were elected to active membership and J. C. Bailey to honorary membership in the fraternity. Doctor McConnell,
in addition to being connected with the Foreign Relations Club, has taken a very active part in the student activities
of the college and is well worthy of the honor bestowed upon him. J. C. Bailey, a graduate of the
class of 1922, is at present principal of the Davidson High School. While at Davidson, Bailey was an intercollegiate debater
and won high honors as a man of exceptional ability. Gamble has done much to distinguish himself along oratorical lines
while at Davidson, several intercollegiate debates being among his achievements. Gavel and Forum now has as members some of the
leading men of forensic fame on the campus. It is doing much to promote interest in this type of work
here and is a fraternity devoted especially to the upbuilding of interest in the literary societies and oratorical endeavor.

SIGMA UPSILON WILL HEAR PROF. LOMAX

The Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity met Monday, April 9, at 9:30 P.M. in the Beta Theta Pi hall. The program
consisted mostly of a study of dramatic literature. Several very interesting plays were reviewed by different members. The plays of
the Carolina Playmakers received more attention and discussion than any others. D. H. Ogden gave an interesting and enlightening review
of Peggy, one of the plays of the Carolina Playmakers. H. M. Morris gave a discussion on Dod Gast Ye
Both, and W. J. Cooper discussed The Last of the Lowries. These plays were also written by the Carolina Playmakers.
After these individual discussions, a general discussion was held on the work of the dramatists at Carolina, which brought out
many very interesting ideas. All the above-mentioned plays tend to depict the life and traditions of the people of North
Carolina, and especially those of the lower class. They display their hardships and their slight chance for ever rising above
their present lot. The character of the old moonshiner in The Last of the Lowries was especially interesting. Dr. J.
M. McConnell also gave a delightful review of Beauty and the Jacobin by Booth Tarkington. The fraternity decided to continue
the study of dramatic literature, laying especial emphasis on the works of modern European authors. The next meeting will be
held on April 24, and it was decided that the fraternity would ask Professor Lomax of Texas, who will be
here on that date, to speak to them. It was also decided that a reception would be given in his
honor at the same time.

LIVELY SPEECHES FEATURE PROGRAM

J. D. Bernhardt and A. C. Ray featured the last meeting of the Metrophilean Literary Society. The former, with an
oration of well-selected words interspersed with sound logic, showed clearly what the preparation of a debate should accomplish. Ray, with
many timely and well-chosen jokes, rocked the meeting in storms of applause and turned a solemn assembly into a bedlam
of laughter. This number of the program changed the meeting from one of a mediocre variety to one of interest.
G. M. Hodgin on the affirmative of the debate showed the needs of a new system of National Defense, while
N. C. McLeod pointed out the advantages of the department that was proposed. On the negative, T. A. Guiton showed
the increased cost of this new system, while his colleague, O. P. Matthews, pointed out the advantages of the old
system over the new one proposed.

PRESIDENT’S PORTRAIT DONATED TO DAVIDSON

A portrait of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, present head of Washington and Lee University and former president of Davidson, has
been presented to the College by one of its friends. This most welcome gift will take its place beside the
portraits of former presidents in the reception room of the Library. Doctor Smith was chief executive of Davidson from 1901
to 1912 and while he was here he won the hearts of students and faculty alike. Before occupying the chair
of the president, he was professor of Natural Philosophy under Doctor Shearer, now deceased. This spring, at the installation of
the Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, Doctor Smith delivered the principal address of the evening. On the following day,
he spoke to the student body in chapel at which time he commended them for the many advancements that had
been made since his departure and especially for steps towards the abolition of hazing. The entire student body wishes to
express its appreciation to the donor of this picture for his most generous gift. It will always be prized as
one of the priceless treasures of the College.

Polk—You sure are like a mandolin.
R. R. Jones—How’s that?
Polk—Because somebody’s always picking on you.

Okey Allison—How do you like my voice in comparison with Caruso?
She—His is good, but yours is better still.

DR. J. M. MCCONNELL HONORED BY SENIORS

Having subscribed over $5,000 to the Davidson College Campaign Fund, the senior class has decided to dedicate their classroom in
the new Chambers Building to Dr. J. M. McConnell as the most popular professor in the senior class. The right
to dedicate a room in the new Chambers is a privilege awarded with each subscription to the campaign fund of
$5,000 or over. The members of the class of 1923 raised this amount from their number during the recent campaign
in the student body for funds. Dr. McConnell, who is professor of History, was unanimously chosen by the class as
the one to whom their room should be dedicated and a marble tablet will be placed in the room in
his honor.McConnell has been one of the outstanding and popular members of the faculty, and it was largely through his
efforts that the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was recently secured.

TWELVE MEN ELECTED TO REPORTERS’ CLUB

At a meeting of the Reporter’s Club last Friday night, twelve men were elected to membership due to their excellent
work as reporters during the past year. Six were upperclassmen and six freshmen. The men elected were: Jack Austin, A.
Y. Bowie, McP. S. Beall, J. L. Green, A. M. Hurd, J. A. McMillan, C. F. Monk, W. E. Milton,
G. D. Rogers, J. M. Selser, C. F. Smith, and P. J. Story. These men will be formally initiated into
the club at a feed to be held after the movies Saturday night. The installation of newly elected officers will
also be held at that time.

Prominent Young Lawyer Speaks at Vesper Service

(Continued from Page 1)

After the reading of the Scripture, Matthew 7:20-28, Charlie Hodgin and Gettys Guille led in prayer. An added feature to
the meeting was a solo by Allison. “Life is the biggest thing we are immediately concerned with,” began Mr. Bobbitt.
“The present age is in a hurry; man is the center of every movement, and what really counts in the
world is the man. What is the foundation of man? The foundation upon which a man builds his life is
personal character.

“What is character?” asked Mr. Bobbitt. He then gave various and sundry definitions that had been given to character. “Character
is a quality that a man may have which comes out in time of need. Character may be a consciousness
of what is right or wrong, or character may also be defined as moral courage. A man who stands out
in a community is one who can be depended upon, and this also represents character. Character that does and dares
is indispensable, and no matter how vicious the storm and tempest, that kind of character is able to withstand the
onslaught,” said Mr. Bobbitt.

“Another thing that is necessary in learning to live,” continued the speaker, “is a plan of life. Before a life
can amount to anything, it must be built upon a plan. The best plan that I can suggest is a
plan of service. By that, I mean a person who has ideals and follows those ideals. The central force of
a man’s life rests with his ideals, his power to work, and the rendering of a service.

“Personal character and a plan of life are two things that are necessary to the material structure of man. Let
us now look at the quality of a life, what makes up a life. For this, there is no analogy.
It has been said that all great men have possessed the quality of sincerity and earnestness, and this may suffice
as a definition. As examples of lives of conviction, look at the lives of Luther, Knox, and Wesley. Earnestness and
truth are both blessed.

“By devoting ourselves wholeheartedly to the three things that I have mentioned, i.e., personal character, a plan of life, and
the quality of your life,” continued the speaker, “we will lead lives which will take us to a plane of
higher living. Some may think that all I have said is only theoretical and nothing practical, but one must think
of the possibilities of man. God and man both have a reality in life. We see our tasks as growing
individuals, and that task is to lead a Christ-life.”

“The country is calling for men to match her mountains and to match her plains,” said Mr. Bobbitt in conclusion,
“and I believe that this body is called upon to meet any challenge.”

Sappenfield, representing the Fresh, spoke next, expressing his enjoyment of the occasion and said that since the Sophs had trained
the Fresh so well, he would take his seat. Piggy immediately replied that he should thank the Board of Control
for having any seat left. Johnny Smith, the Junior representative, then told a joke, after which Bascom Sorrells, the Senior
Class President, expressed his appreciation of the work the class had done in adopting the Court of Control. Martin then
announced the results of the class elections: Chang McIlwaine, president; Bub Oeland, vice-president; and Zander McAlister, secretary and treasurer. Mac
Beall, the retiring president, and McIlwaine each said a few words. The class then sang the Class Song, written by
Purdy and Williams, to the tune of College Ties, after which O! Davidson was sung and the class yell given.
The class then adjourned to Keith’s where an enjoyable evening was spent. Piggy Martin and Shorty Howell closed the program
with a special act.

The success of the program is due in large measure to A. M. Martin, the toastmaster, who by his quick
tongue and ready wit made the program what it was. McIlwaine, the director of the banquet, and Oeland, the secretary
and treasurer, handled the business end while H. B. Price, R. O. Sellars, J. A. Lake, W. C. Ramsey, A.
C. McIntyre, G. A. McLean, N. G. Patterson, and M. S. Beall handled the difficult job of collecting the money
for the affair.

WHEREUPON

“Oh, my!” she exclaimed impatiently, “we'll be sure to miss the first act. We've been waiting a good many minutes
for that mother of mine.”

“Hours, you should say,” he replied rather tartly.

“Ours?” she cried joyously. “Oh, George, this is sudden.”—Exchange.

Fresh—Ever hear the story about the golden fleece?
Soph—No, do they bite?

BETTER SERVICE
RALPH'S BARBER SHOP
New Location
KNOX BUILDING

The Professor passed him immediately. It was the first question in the course on Shaving—“Why is the handy cap not
a handicap?” and the student replied, “Because it can’t get lost.” He referred, of course, to the Williams’ Hinged Cap
which you see pictured here. This invention puts an end for all time to the nuisance of hunting for lost
caps. Williams’ cap is hinged on. Williams’ Shaving Cream is as pleasantly better as the new cap. For Williams’ is
the fastest beard softener known and, in addition, it is of distinct benefit to the skin. Try giving your face
the wholesome care it makes you look and feel. As you see, the cap is the only college cap that
you can’t lose. Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!
