THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923

WITH THE JUNIORS

A BRIEF REVIEW

By One of ‘Em.

To term the career of the Junior class, stormy and tempestuous is putting it mildly. Darwin's theory of the survival of the fittest, together with his law of natural selection and the fact that it is really “Quality not Quantity” that counts, finds good walking advertisements in this group of men. Striking Davidson on a rainy day in early September, 1920, with 180 odd members, the number has gradually been diluted and sifted through the sands of time until pure gold only remains in the 60 surviving exponents of what is true class spirit. For, although the number is small, the class has attributes and characteristics as a group that are a credit to any group of men and which, if found to such a marked degree in all classes on the hill, would assure a better Davidson.

Class spirit and the love of numerals is the mainstay upon which the 60 remaining members of '24 have built their platform during the past year and which has served more than ever during this period to bind them together as a group of men to whom cliques and clans present no barriers between classmates. This spirit has won honors and positions rarely seen held by one class. Three positions on the intercollegiate debating team is the latest addition to the list of honors won, and prominent parts played by members of the class of '24. This, together with the list of prominent men playing leading roles in athletic, literary, and scholastic lines, and the fact that largely through the actions of this group, fresh furnaces were made a thing of the past on the Presbyterian campus, are outstanding facts in reviewing the history of '24.

During the freshman year, six men made their letter: Faison and Moore, in football; Davis in basketball; Hunter, in baseball; and MacBryde and Galloway, in track. Since then Clarke, Davis, Field, DeArmond, and Cox have been added to the football men; MacConnell in basketball; and Boushee in baseball. Four honor roll men grace the ranks of '24, these being Jones, Smith, Walthall, Galloway, and Hillhouse. In addition to these, the Juniors claim a goodly number of representatives among the various literary publications and honorary fraternities on the hill.

Watch Yourself Go By

Just stand aside and watch yourself go by;
Think of yourself as “he” instead of “I”.
Note closely as in other men you note,
The bag-kneed trousers and the seedy coat,
Pick flaws; find fault; forget the man as you,
And try to make your estimate ring true,
Confront yourself and look you in the eye,
Just stand aside and watch yourself go by.

Interpret all your motives just as though
You looked on one whose aims you did not know,
Let undisguised contempt surge through you when
You see you shrink, O commonest of men!
Despise your cowardice; condemn whate'er
You note of falseness in you anywhere;
Defend not one defect that shames your eye—
Just stand aside and watch yourself go by.

And then, with eyes unveiled to what you loathe—
To sins that with sweet charity you'd clothe—
Back to your self-walled tenement you go
With tolerance for all who dwell below,
The faults of others then will dwarf and shrink;
Love's chain grow stronger by one mighty link—
When you, with “he” as substitute for “I”
Have stood aside and watched yourself go by.

—Strickland W. Gillilan, in “The Forecast.”

Four victories out of five in debate and the season only begun. Hurrah! for the debaters! Looks as though we are to have another real Lawrence victory year in debate—Lawrentinia.

“Well,” said the parrot, after listening to the lecture on evolution, “at any rate no one can make a monkey out of me.”

Junior Mirrors

Who is not aware of Okey, of loud Glee Club fame, and well known also as the amorous Sultan of Sarawak? Who is so insignificant as never to have been horsed in his composiums, and who has not suffered at the hands of his “skibooch”? Yet how many of you really know him? He is a diligent youth, often jacking up his Greek lesson till the wee small hours, when it is not more convenient to read the American Magazine, or play tunes on his Underwood.

Long and slender
Smooth and limber
Graceful as an isotherm,
With the ladies
He’s a wonder
Captivating at a glance,
Famed for snake oil,
Jest and laughter,
Latest styles and fluent bull—
It’s Flop Beaver I’m talking about of course, but that’s not all. Have you seen him with the pigskin? Talking about long legs and long end runs! He and Crown work together like twins on that '24 eleven.

Studious and faraway. Who can even simulate the air of nonchalance with which Ed. Brown shoots the professors? When asked when he prayed, he said that his meditations are upon interstellar spaces and intercollegiate distances. If you want to know how many centuries will elapse between Junior Speaking and the time the echoes of “FIRE” will return from Campus, ask E. D. Or if you want to know the exact time to expect an answer from Queens, or Mitchell, ask E. D.

What would we do without Jerry Fenton? Gibbs would go out of business, Gibson would leave college, the junior class backfield would be without its chief drawback, and everybody on the hill would weep briny tears. Be careful, Jerry, and don’t do anything to get shipped for; be careful with that devilment of yours so Junior Speaking won't be a failure.

Tall and handsome
And forever throwing rocks.
That's Mason Field, but that’s not all he’s noted for. If I listed all his assets, I’d have to write abbreviated shorthand to avoid putting out an extra, but 24 tall and handsome. He's got big feet and he’s tall and stately. He plays football and collects money at the movies, but he’s still tall and handsome.

Rhyming, chiming Galloway,
Free verse scribbling Galloway,
He bones hard, and he’s a stud,
Thinks all others slow as mud,
But round the track he'll gallop away.
Say what you will, but Frances W. led the class last term, and is likely to do it again this term if he doesn’t fall in love with more than six more girls.

“If you want a thing well done, do it yourself,” or turn it over to R. R. Jones. Poor Alki, I feel sorry for him. They made him do a little of everything, and most of a lot of things, because he is accommodating. He ought to stand up for his rights like the rest of us and refuse to have all these things thrust off on him. Just think of it, he has had to join the Sigma Upsilon and the Gamma Sigma Epsilon within the last couple of weeks. However, in spite of these weaknesses, he has a heart like a lump of pure gold.

Block Matheson! He hails from Statesville. Fair of hair, and fair of speech, he goes his own sweet way, and shoots the professors with the accuracy of a sniper when it comes to stubborn facts. Though he never intends to be a cadet major, though he will perhaps never take Montague’s place on the football team, and though he isn’t a member of the Glee Club, yet in horseshoe pitching he is a past master, and some day he'll doubtless harangue huge hordes of heathens Heavenward.

Musically ambitious is Price R. L., a very demon with his new saxophone. He keeps his neighbors awake when they might be studying restfully, he blares out at all untimely hours, but there is this in his favor; he has this one redeeming quality; he is good and industrious, and fierce-looking and industrious, and cheerful and industrious, and practical andHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

industrious, and is willing to tackle most anything, most industriously. Methematic McClure—he loves his horn and his pipe, and is not averse to a good joke, nor to his alidade. Always on time; though he usually has to hurry to get there, nevertheless! he is the mainstay in History III. and he's industrious and steady, he is one of those SOCIETIES CHOOSE MEN FOR SPEAKING CONTEST.

Among the many preparations for the coming events of Junior speaking were the preliminary speeches held by the separate societies from which selections were made for the oratorical contest on Friday. There must be preparation for these speeches by all the aspirants and in the three societies, which held preliminaries before the Davidsonian went to press, it was indeed hard to judge just who were the best representatives. We Metrophilians had not selected their contestants, but, from the work that was being put on the speeches by the aspirants, they bid fair to be well represented. The Eumanean Society selected two good speakers in Liston Elkins and Ralph Smith. Elkins’ subject will be “Lincoln’s Heritage,” a subject that will be of much interest to all. “Provincial America,” to be delivered by Smith, should draw close attention from every person who has the interest of his country at heart. H. M. White and P. J. Story will do their bit to uphold the honor of the Philanthropic Society. White will speak on “Individual Responsibility,” a good subject, and Paul Story is giving a new speech on an old subject reversed in “Making Democracy Safe for the World.” The Phis will not lack for real representation. With Warren Cox and D. B. Walthall representing the Pandemics, they will certainly not be behind the other societies when the speeches are made Friday. Cox chose as his subject, “A Permanent I Do.” This subject sounds very interesting and is sure to be received enthusiastically. Walthall takes “Monroe Doctrine of the Twentieth Century” as his subject. He has developed a splendid oration. There will no doubt be keen competition when Friday arrives and everyone can look forward to a good time on that day. Frank Johnson, head of the Inter-Collegiate debating council will select the judges, which group will probably be chosen from the faculty, and the speaker who gets an affirmative vote shall feel justly proud of his accomplishments.

D. Tell Me
Did you ever see;
A stone step?
A peanut stand?
A ginger snap?
A sardine box?
A sausage roll?
A day pass by?
A hair dye?
A house fly?
A brick walk?
A snake dance?
A night fall?
A mill run?
A rolling pin?
A bed spring?
A bed tick?
A clock run?
An ink stand?
—Orange and Blue.

Who will “sit in the back office.” Watch him as he inhales luxuriously. Enshrouded in clouds of curling blue smoke his face assumes the angelic expression of a poetic, philosophic, seer. Can this be the same fellow who came here, a freshman, three years ago? Is this the same John Simpson who used to answer R. O. T. C. roll call from a Hell Alley window? Yes, though he has lost some little of his freshness, he still has the same bright remarks to make on all occasions, and he is still the first person to leave the examination hall, “The leopard cannot change his spots, nor the Ethiopian his skin.” A strenuous speaker, a studious reader, an omnivorous eater, and a zealous buller. He still believes in Shenandoah, though not as officiously as of yore, he still strives for the honor roll and more successfully of late. He keeps up with all news, and will inform most cheerfully on any subject, from the latest quotations in the cotton market in Baluchistan, to the number of peanuts to be purchased at the Commissary for a nickel, it’s the Duke Walthall. If you don’t believe it, ask him. He’s merry, and he’s witty, he wears a cigarette and a smile, and tortoise shell goggles. He’s there on all occasions, and his name is Weldon. He got the victrola for East; he’s raffled off fiddles and sweaters; he always knows when to laugh; he’s the stuff; he’s a Junior.

Junior Class Officers

President
ELIAS SAMPSON FAISON
As president of the Junior Class ‘Lias has led Old ’24 through the most successful year. Hailing from Faison, N. C., he has proven himself an administrator of the very highest type. Forceful, capable and strong, he is a man in every sense of the word. He has been elected as captain of the Wildcat eleven for next year after starring for three years at end. The strength and leadership which he has manifested on the gridiron have been clearly shown in his work as class president and he is to a large extent responsible for the success of the class during the past year.

Vice President
JOHN IRVING SMITH
Johnny, the “stud” from Greenville, S. C., has made a most efficient vice-president. Quiet and reserved in character he has a certain air of efficiency which everyone expects. In his studies he is a conscientious worker. He has set a high standard for his classmates to follow. Recently he has attracted considerable notice and has been picked for the logical successor of Pat Crawford at first base, next season. During his three years with '24 he has done much for the success of the class.

Secretary-Treasurer
ROBERT RANDOLPH JONES
Coming to Davidson from El Paso, Texas, Alki stepped into prominence when he made the Honor Roll his Freshman year. Since then he has always held a class or student body office. As treasurer he has proved to be a financier of note, being able to steer the finances of '24 through many stormy waters. He is a member of the Junior Speaking Committee which has labored with much effort to make Speaking better than ever before. Charged with activity, he always puts his heart into everything that he attempts to do and few there are who succeed better in anything that they undertake.

Class Historian
DAVID SCHANKS PHLEGAR
Dave is one of the steadiest fellows in the class and although his class history has not yet appeared it is sure to be a good one for he succeeds in everything that he undertakes. Quiet but always ready for action, he is a decided addition to ’24. He hails from Christiansburg, Va.

Class Poet
WILLIAM FRANCIS GALLAWAY
This Savannah boy has from the start taken a leading part in college activities. As captain of the track team he has proven himself a middle distance man of no mean ability. However, it is in the realm of literature that he has made himself most famous. As a writer of both prose and poetry he bids fair to become one of the biggest men that Davidson has turned out in many years.

Judge—Now I don’t expect to see you here again, Rufus.
Rufus—Not see me here again, Judge? Why, you ain’t a’goin to resign yo’ job, is yo’, judge?

WALKING SUPPORTS
Back in the days of yore, namely, about two Springs previous, the Senior Class took to themselves certain canes which they carried when they sallied forth from their domiciles. In that ancient time very little slang was used, but according to the sayings of the present age these Seniors are said to have “strutted their stuff.” But hark ye, for all who are interested in such marvelous displays will soon have their cravings satisfied. In the near future, Easter to be exact, the Class of ’23 will step out with canes and it is believed this brilliant array will far surpass anything of its kind that has happened formerly. The humble Freshmen will look on this event with adoring eyes and with fond hopes that between now and 1930 they may be able to bedeck themselves with such splendor. Junior Speaking, Fire, Easter, yea verily, these Seniors will take their derbys and canes and strut their stuff.