THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1923

1894
Rev. Geo. M. Matthis is pastor of a group of churches at Clinton, N. C.

1895
Mr. Geo. D. White was married to Miss Mary Graham Brockenborough, of Charlotte, N. C., on Oct. 11, 1923.

1900
Mr. T. D. Dupuy is in charge of an important department of the Southern Life and Trust Co., Greensboro, N.
C.

1901
Dr. E. W. Phifer, of Morganton, N. C., and Dr. H. S. Moore, of Charlotte, were among the alumni present
at the Citadel-Davidson game.

JOHN McKEITHEN KEITH, '22
John McKeithen Keith, '22, died at his home in Vass, N. C., after a lingering illness. John is well remembered
by the two upper classes, and the news of his death came as a great shock to his many friends
on the Hill. Shortly after graduation, John was attacked with that dreadful malady, Bright's Disease, and though he fought a
brave fight to overcome it, he finally succumbed. We mourn the loss of one who was so closely associated with
us, and whom everyone regarded as a friend.

HERE AND THERE AMONG ALUMNI

1884
Rev. J. C. Oehler is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Palestine, Texas.

1891
Prof. J. Marion Moore, formerly president of Mitchell College, Statesville, N. C., has accepted the presidency of the Lewisburg Female
Seminary, Lewisburg, W. Va.

1893
Rev. S. W. Moore is now located at Bluefield, W. Va.

1894
Rev. Geo. M. Matthis is pastor of a group of churches at Clinton, N. C.

1895
Mr. Geo. D. White was married to Miss Mary Graham Brockenborough, of Charlotte, N. C., on Oct. 11, 1923.

1900
Mr. T. D. Dupuy is in charge of an important department of the Southern Life and Trust Co., Greensboro, N.
C.

1901
Dr. E. W. Phifer, of Morganton, N. C., and Dr. H. S. Moore, of Charlotte, were among the alumni present
at the Citadel-Davidson game.

1902
Rev. A. R. McQueen is now pastor of the Presbyterian church of Dunn, N. C.

1909
Mr. and Mrs. Jno. H. McSween spent the weekend here as guests of Mrs. P. D. Vinson and Miss Maude
Vinson.

1910
Mr. Hugh A. Query, of Gastonia, N. C., is in the insurance business.

1910
Mr. Clarence Clark is a merchant-planter located at Clarkton, N. C.

1914
Rev. Neill McInnis is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Selma, N. C.

1919
Mr. Irving Crawford holds a responsible position with the Southern Life & Trust Co., Greensboro, N. C.

1921
Ralph Robinson, of Charlotte, was a visitor at the game on Saturday.

1922
Mr. Lawrence Crawford has charge of the Loan Department of the Southern Life & Trust Co., of Greensboro, N. C.

1923
J. Eris Cassell, now teaching in Gastonia, N. C., attended the Citadel-Davidson game Saturday.

D. R. LaFar, Ben Dunlap, Bob Holmes, J. P. Taylor, and "Soc" Wright attended the game on Saturday. G. B.
Sorrells, R. E. Sydenstricker, J. P. Booth, J. D. Bernhardt, C. F. Wildman, J. C. McMaster, M. B. Foil, W.
S. Buchanan, H. O. Covington, Pat Crawford, J. E. Haney, James McCutchen, and Wallace Moore were all on the Hill
for the weekend to witness the battle between the Wildcats and the Bulldogs.

The Class of 1910 has contributed so far to the $600,000.00 campaign for the rebuilding of Chambers, $5,279.77.

NONE TOO SMALL
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
A. T. SUMMEY, V.-Pres. and Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Asst. Cashier and Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,100,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

The STRAND
Under BROADWAY
Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday
MILTON SILLS and ALICE LAKE in an underworld melodrama "Environment"
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday
RIN-TIN-TIN the great police dog in "WHERE THE NORTH BEGINS"

CHAMBERS CAMPAIGN NEARS SIX HUNDRED THOUSAND MARK
During the past week, the margin between the amount already subscribed and the final goal in the six hundred thousand
dollar campaign for rebuilding Chambers Hall was decreased by subscriptions to the amount of $15,000.00. There are now in the
hands of the campaign workers between nine and ten thousand subscriptions, amounting altogether to $575,000.00. This leaves only $25,000.00 yet
to find, an amount only half as large as that subscribed by the students themselves. Mr. Lockhart and an assistant
are now working the state of Georgia where they hope to raise the rest of the amount. Their headquarters are
in Atlanta at present and will probably remain there for a month or more. The contract for building the south
wing has not been let so work will not begin for some time, however, in all probability, the entire south
wing containing classrooms and offices will be complete by the opening of the next fall term.

SCRAPPING WILDCATS (Continued from page 1)
line, failed to gain and punted the ball deep into Davidson territory. After an exchange of punts, Citadel put up
her hardest offensive and made two first downs in rapid order, but the Wildcat line settled down and held. The
quarter ended with the ball in Citadel'spossession on Davidson's 47-yard line. Citadel opened the second quarter by punting to Davidson’s
10-yard line, Hendrix returning 5. Davidson failed to gain and punted, Citadel’s quarter fumbling a long one from Shepherd's toe
which was doing valiant work. O’Shaughnessy recovered for Citadel. The Bulldogs failed to make first down on account of an
offside penalty and Faison’s accuracy at knocking down and punted. Hendrix accounted for a first down, made by DeArmon over
right guard, by making a nice gain around right end. Shepherd registered a first down on two pretty line bucks.
Davidson was going good for another first down when Baker dropped a pass which he had snatched out of midair
and advanced for 12 yards, Citadel recovering on their own 24-yard line. It looked like Davidson was good for a
touchdown but for this hard luck. Citadel was forced to punt and Davidson started another march downfield which was ended
by a 15-yard penalty for holding. It was in the last four minutes of this Davidson, in an effort to
overcome the penalty, completed four straight passes, Shepherd and Covington pulling down two each from the hands of Hendrix. The
half ended with Davidson still on their march.

Davidson came back strong in the third period and in the first few minutes of play registered the only score
of the game, bucking the ball over after placing it in striking distance by a long pass. Play was in
midfield, both teams holding well. Lindamood did good work in this period, breaking through and nailing the Citadel backs for
several losses. Citadel threatened a place kick at this point, but a bad pass from center grounded and was covered,
the ball going over on Davidson’s 47-yard line. Several exchanges of punts followed, Shepherd getting off the longest of the
game, which netted 48 yards. Fields and Pinkney were doing great defensive work backing up their respective lines. Davidson was
gaining in the exchanges, and play was resumed in Citadel’s territory. The game ended just after Black made two straight
first downs on line plays, the ball in Davidson’s possession on Citadel’s 48-yard line.

Hendrix ran Davidson’s team in grand style and displayed great leadership. Shepherd was doing great footwork and generally excelled in
all lines. Black produced yardage on eighty percent of his plays for a net gain of 4 yards per play.
Wick was showing great form and seems to be developing Judy Harlan’s style of line bucking. Faison was in his
old form and held his end impassable. The Davidson substitutes did themselves proud while in the game. Covington made nice
gains at critical times and was on the receiving end of several passes. Baker played right end like unto Davidson’s
stellar flanksmen. Citadel hadn’t come to Davidson to play a good game, but to win, and put up a hard
scrap. O’Shaughnessy, the fighting Irish kind, was strong on end runs and accounted for many of Citadel's yards gained. Berry
and Allan produced nice gains through the line. Pinckney was unmatched in his good work on defense, back of the
line, having a good ear for solving plays and frequently plugging a big hole. Benson and Nesmith were good in
holding Davidson down on her usual strong point, end runs. Davidson played well up in the air, completing 7 out
of 10 forward passes for a total gain of 69 yards. Hendrix passed with uncanny accuracy and most any Wildcat
seemed able to snag them.

Citadel (0) Davidson (7)
Nesmith L. E. Davis
Wannamaker L. T. Hodgins
Corley L. G. Pinckney
Fields C. Boggs
Wagstaff R. G. Lindamood
Benson R. T. Faison (Capt.)
Allan R. E. Hendrix
O’Shaughnessy Q. B. Black
Berry L. H. B. Shepherd
Dearmon R. H. B. F. B.

Time of periods, 15 minutes.
Citadel 0 0 0 0 - 0
Davidson 0 7 0 0 - 7

Summary: Citadel substitutions: Lee for Nesmith; West for Wannamaker; Wannamaker for West; Saunderson for Corley. Davidson: Baker for Davis; P.
Cox for Faison; Covington for P. Cox; Laird for Hodgin; Briggs for Fields; Faison for Baker; Davis for Covington. First
downs, Davidson 8, Citadel 5. Try for points after touchdown, Shepherd from placement. Referee, Gooch (University of Virginia); Umpire, Perry
(Sewanee); head linesman, Major (Clemson); timekeepers, Rhame (Citadel) and Douglas (Davidson).

SERVICE ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON
MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS
2nd Floor Knox Bldg.
SATISFACTION

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

A Fire-Prevention-Week Message
America loses $1,370,000 of her wealth and fifty of her citizens every day from the ravages of fire. Seventy-five percent
of this waste and slaughter can be eliminated through carefulness. What shall we do about it?
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
Insurance Department
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. ('13)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
