8 eras SET "THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923

SIGMA UPSILON READY FOR YEAR OF PROGRESS

Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity met last Monday, September 24th, in the S. A. E. hall. After a short program consisting
of interesting talks by L. D. Elkins and W. F. Galloway, the remainder of the meeting was devoted to organizing
and making plans for work for the coming year. The question of finances was brought up and adequate plans were
made for financing the fraternity throughout the year. New prospects for membership were discussed and will be more definitely acted
on at the next meeting. These men will be elected from the Senior class. Last year Sigma Upsilon lost eight
prominent men. They were: R. F. Davidson, H. H. Smith, D. H. Ogden, W. J. Cooper, H. K. Russell, E.
T. Woolfork, W. S. Buchanan, and H. M. Morris; but with four of last year’s men back and two former
members returning to college this year, the prospects for a successful year are bright. The two former members who are
returning to college this year are: Joe Walker, who is coming back for an M.A. degree, and Ed. Fewell. The
Blue Pencil Society will also be strengthened again this year by the presence of Prof. E. J. Erwin, who is
the president of the national fraternity.

"CAPS AND BELLS" COMBINED WITH COLLEGE MAGAZINE

In view of this fact, "Caps and Bells," the humorous publication of the Junior class, has been combined with the
magazine. The humorous section of the magazine is to be called "Caps and Bells" and it is proposed to make
this entirely original. The first issue will go to press about the first of November and there will be at
least four issues during the school year. The size of the magazine also is to be increased. In order to
make this year’s Davidson College Magazine the best in the history of the college and the best in the South,
all new men who have any talent along this line should contribute to it. Poetry is greatly needed and any
men who have made extended trips during the summer are urged to write an account of their experiences for the
magazine. Financially the magazine is in excellent shape and more advertisements than usual have been secured to date. Altogether the
outlook for a successful magazine is excellent but the co-operation of every man in the student body is necessary to
put it across in the right way. The staff is composed of the following men: W. F. Galloway, Editor-in-Chief; D.
B. Walthall, Assistant Editor; H. M. White, Fiction; L. D. Elkins, Essays; A. M. Martin, Humor; J. R. Ernest, Exchange;
J. R. Gudger, Book Reviews and Circulation; A. M. Hurd, Business Manager.

TOWN IMPROVEMENTS MADE DURING SUMMER

The town of Davidson has been taking long strides during the summer. The Statesville-Charlotte asphalt road had been so nearly
completed that travel on it has begun. This puts Davidson on a good road and the cars passing through, especially
on Sunday afternoon, remind one of a town six times its size. Davidson is now within 30 or 40 minutes
of Charlotte, thus affording much more convenient and quicker travel.

A new plumbing, heating and electrical concern has opened up on South Main St. It is to be known as
the Davidson Plumbing, Heating and Electrical Co. The manager is Mr. E. Hyland. They will deal in all kinds of
plumbing, heating and electrical supplies as well as doing repair work. They are also equipped to do contracting in these
three lines. The people of Davidson have for years felt the need of such an establishment, but heretofore there has
been no such concern located here. Now that the town is installing its own water works and lighting system there
will be an ever-increasing need for a firm like this.

Mrs. E. J. Erwin and baby son, Edward Jones, Jr., are at home. Mrs. Erwin has been spending the summer
at their summer home in Morganton.

Miss Lera Hobbs who is a student at Mitchell College was at home for a short visit Sunday afternoon.

The Thelemite Club will meet next time, Thursday, October 20th with Mrs. T. G. Hearn. Mrs. Hearn is the president
of this club. An interesting program is mapped out for this year. The members of this organization are taking a
special course in psychology under Dr. Hood. Throughout the year Dr. Hood will give four lectures, each one at some
one of these meetings. At the next meeting, Mrs. Porter will present a paper on Sensation; Mrs. Hood will have
one on Instinct.

ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON

MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS

The fourth quarter opened with Davidson kicking off to Elon. Elon failed to gain and punted, Covington returning 10 yards
to Elon’s 48-yard line. Davidson penalized 15 yards for holding. First down, 25 to go. Pass, Hendrix to Shepard, and
end run, Hendrix, nets first down. Davidson loses 10 yards on bad pass from center. Two forward passes fail. Shepard
kicks over goal line. Elon thrown for losses and punts. Hunt fails at right guard. Sappenfield makes 25 yards around
right end. Game ended, Davidson’s ball on Elon’s 15-yard line. Davidson, 119; Elon, 0. From the sidelines Kirkland and Sides
looked the best for the visitors, and the Davidson outfit looked pretty well balanced, with Gig Shepard and Jim Hendrix
breaking into the limelight at intervals. Covington and Sappenfield, Davidson’s substitutes, made pretty gains in end runs, and Covington showed
good form in broken field running returning punts. Black, of Davidson, showed good promise of being a consistent ground gainer,
and his line plunging was phenomenal. Elon’s weight in the line showed to advantage against Davidson’s comparatively light set of
forwards, and Elon’s 25 yards gain was made via that route. Coach Monk’s men showed the effects of hard training
and excelling in no particular method of play, gained consistently through the line, around the ends, and via the aerial
route, making a total of 294 yards gain. Davidson’s pass work was outstanding, five out of eight passes being completed
for 75 yards gain. Summers, of Davidson, showed great fight, and was responsible in part for Elon’s net gain of
two yards loss in the second half, breaking through on several occasions. Fields and Mallory, alternating at center, did good
work, Mallory at times showing the effect of:Ditches along the edge of all the streets with SERVICE 2nd Floor Knox
Bldg. SATISFACTION the red clay thrown into the street. These are the foundations for a $90,000 contract this town has
for a new water system. They are now laying the water and sewer lines along the streets and erecting a
water tank in the northeast part of town. Heretofore a very small part of town enjoyed ample water because of
the inadequate college supply. The lives of the town people will not only be made more comfortable, but the college
supply is not likely to run short. This will be finished in about 30 days.

There also will be an improvement in the lighting system of the town. One of the features will be street
lights suspended over the middle of the streets.

BELK BROS. CO. Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and
see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus, and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS
New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS
Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES
Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

WILDCATS’ PASS (Continued from page 1)
With the ball in Davidson’s possession on Elon’s 10-yard line. At the opening of the second quarter, after two short
gains, Wick Black carried the ball over for Davidson, making the first touchdown for Davidson on a pretty plunge through
left tackle. The place kick was blocked on account of a bad pass from center. The game slowed down considerably
at this point because Elon was slow in running signals. Kirkland, Elon’s quarterback, made several pretty gains through right tackle,
Elon making one first down and then punting because of failure to gain. The ball was played in the middle
of the field the balance of the quarter, both teams holding well. Quarter ended with the ball in Davidson’s possession
on their own 11-yard line, half ending.

MEN’S UNDERWEAR
Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c
Men’s medium weight unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY
Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c
Men’s silk sox 48c, 85c, $1.00

Davidson came back strong in the second half and demonstrating a variety of new plays and speed, and outplayed Elon
consistently the balance of the game, scoring two touchdowns in the third quarter. Hendrix received the ball and ran 40
yards, giving a good exhibition of speed and side-stepping. A short pass, Hendrix to Faison, netted 6 yards; straight football
advanced the ball to Elon’s 3-yard line and Gig took it over on a reverse play around right end. Laird
place-kicked goal. Faison received the kick-off for Davidson and ran back 40 yards, having missed early training. Line-ups as follows:

Davidson (19) Position Elon (0)
Faison (captain) Left end Brown
Mitchell Left guard
Mallory Left tackle
Braxton Center
Summers Right tackle
Davis Right guard
Hyatt Right End
Hendrix Quarter Kirkland
Black Right Half Hartel
Snead Left half Silas
DeArmon Full McAdams

Substitutions: Laird for DeArmon, Fields for Mallory, Nodgen for Anderson, Covington for Laird, Fenton for Covington, Hunt for Fenton, Sappenfield
for Hendrix, Baker for Davis. Elon substitutions: Thomas for Alston, Alston for Thomas. Officials: Referee, Major (Clemson); umpire, Whitaker (N.
C. State); head linesman, Kernodle (U. of N.C.) Periods, 10, 12, 10, 12.

Y. M. C. A. CABINET BEGINS YEAR’S WORK WITH PLAN FOR SERVICE TO STUDENT (Continued from page 1)
Planning an entertainment, the nature of which will be disclosed later. W. Z. Bradford is succeeded on the meetings committee
by Vic Brown. Brown will spare no efforts in securing the best speakers possible for the weekly vesper services. The
Hi-Y, which has come to mean so much to the high school boys, will be in charge of Warren Cox.
The boys are to be led both in their weekly meeting and in their athletics by him. The World Fellowship
class will re- E. HYLAND, Mgr. The selection and showing of the weekly movies is to be supervised by Watt
McCain, who can be depended upon to maintain a high standard of entertainment. All men interested in rural Sunday School
work are requested to hand in their name to Julian Briggs. The “Y” wishes to send out the very best
teachers and singers to the neighboring Sunday Schools. Each member of the cabinet is pleased with the co-operation thus far
extended them by the students of the college and they join in urging that everyone continue to boost the extensive
and beneficial work of the Y. M. C. A.

COACH YOUNGER’S MACHINE (Continued from page 1)
Every flaw detected in the running of the eleven against the Christians was noted by Coaches Younger and Tilson. The
afternoon practices this week have found the entire squad working overtime to condition themselves for the coming fight. The importance
of the game and the value of a win from P. C. means much to Davidson. The players and coaches,
realizing this, have been working in earnest to prepare for the battle which promises to be a fight to the
finish. P. C. will have another good machine, according to the dope from Clinton. Coach Walter Johnson, looked upon by
the South Carolinians as the “Miracle Man in Football,” is expected to put out a strong eleven against the Wildcats
Friday at Rock Hill. The game will be P. C.’s first of the season. It will be Davidson's second. P.
C. has a coach who has been in the habit of picking a team capable of ruining the reputations of
its opponents. The material for a good eleven at that institution this fall is more than promising. P. C. has
lost five lettermen through graduation. Williamson and Brown, guards; Wade, tackle; Clowny, end, and Wilson, backfield man, will don the
blue jerseys no more. Clinton and Robertson, backs; Martin, Edwards, Brown, Campbell, Bailey, Black, Ferguson, Holland, Rucker, and Sistay are
being counted upon to uphold the reputation of the Presbyterian team this year.

Scores of battles fought during the past four years are: 1919, P. C., 0; Davidson, 0; 1920, P. C., 7;
Davidson 0; 1921, P. C. 0; Davidson, 7; 1922, P. C., 8; Davidson, 7. The last game, accounted above, was
bitter, too bitter, for the Davidson student body. With this disappointing battle in mind, the Wildcats will be found scrapping
with all their efforts put forth Friday.

DROP IN— For The Best Eats In Town THE MISSES SCHOFIELD

FORDS! YOU DRIVE ’EM Henderson Auto & Electric Co.

Always Something Good to Eat NEW YORK CAFE DAVIDSON

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Plumbing, Heating and Electrical Equipment DAVIDSON PLUMBING, HEATING & ELECTRICAL CO. Appreciate Your Presence In Our Store Phone 144
