_ DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Today—1 Page

Vol. 1. No. 8

DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 1, 1923

FOUNDED 1922

R. O. T. C. NEWS

Instead of the competitive drill between the companies of the R. O. T. C. unit, this year a field meet is to be staged. Companies A and B will be matched up in the preliminaries, while Companies C and D will also be paired up. The finals will be between the winners in these two contests. The meet is to be held about April 11, and from now until then the two-hour drills on Wednesday will be given over to practice for the event. No definite program is yet available, but Captain Hearn intends to include in his events a 100-yard dash, wall-skinning event, broad jump, etc. Following the exercises, the honor flag is to be presented, and the whole topped off by a parade.

During the past days the rifle team has been busy, and in the last match came out with a score of 869, sixteen points above University of Georgia. N. C. State won out over fifteen others with a score of 947. Whenever the weather permits, sophomores will begin practice on the landscape-target firing. To date, twelve sophomores have signed up for the basic camp this summer, and twelve for the advanced. It seems that the unit will be in good shape next year as to material for officers. After the competition on April 11, the remaining battalion formations will be given over to marches and field maneuvers. Cadet Major Cooper intends, during the Easter holidays, to take a unit, if enough men wish to go, to the Catawba river for a two- or three-day stay.

TOWN NEWS

Mrs. Murray M. Grey is visiting her mother in Virginia.

The last meeting of the Woman’s Auxiliary for the church year 1922-1923 was held Thursday afternoon, at 4 o'clock, at the church. The meeting in April, which is the first meeting of the new church year, will be in charge of the new officers.

The subject of the sermon at the Methodist Church last Sunday night was “The Lost Sheep.” A quartet from the College Y. M. C. A. furnished special music.

The target range in the gymnasium has been completely overhauled. The targets are thoroughly lighted both from above and below in such a way that there is no glare. By means of screens, etc., all the light from behind has been cut out and the new arrangement facilitates good shooting.

Mrs. J. L. Currie has been confined to her house with sickness for a few days, but her host of friends will be glad to know that she is recovering rapidly, and will soon be once again among them.

The regular quarterly meeting was held last week at Fairview Church at Mount Mourne. Rev. D. M. Litaker, presiding elder of the Statesville district, preached an excellent sermon.

Mrs. Kenneth Foreman returned home Friday from a two months visit to her mother in Dallas, Tex.

The practice of having appointed an O. D. daily has been resumed. For some time this fall there has been no O. D., but it has been found practicable to reinstate the office.

Mrs. Templeton, of Mooresville, and her brother, who is with the United States Navy and has just returned from Siberia, were guests at the home of Mrs. Bordy last week.

CONGRESSIONAL RECORD IS ADDED TO LIBRARY

Due to the untiring efforts of Miss Shaw and the faculty, the library is now well stocked with all current literature. The only recent addition is seventeen bound volumes of The Congressional Record, for the second session of the Sixty-seventh Congress. These volumes were sent by Representative A. L. Bulwinkle.

HIGH SCHOOL ATHLETICS

Under the coaching of Sorrells and Crawford, the Davidson Wildkittens have had a very successful season in basketball. They defeated Salisbury, Concord, Troutman, and Maiden, and were defeated by Mooresville, the champion of this section, Charlotte, the champion of their section, Concord, and Crossmore. They have one more game on the schedule with Salisbury high school, at Salisbury, Thursday night.

Captain Joe McConnell has led the team like a veteran, and to him belongs much of the credit for the successful season. After Thursday night’s game with Salisbury, the Wildkittens start out for baseball. Johnson is captain and the prospects are good for a successful season in this sport as practically all of last year’s team will be back this year fighting harder than before. On Wednesday morning football and basketball letters are to be given out at the high school to those men who merited them. Thirteen football and seven basketball letters are to be distributed.

The Wildkittens, like the Wildcats, are already planning for a most successful football season.

Miss Mary Black left Monday for Greenville, S. C., for a visit with relatives.

Mrs. L. A. Weatherley delightfully entertained a few friends Saturday in honor of her sister, Miss Velma Shambart, of Greenville, N. C., and Miss Elsie Wilson, of Charlotte. These young ladies are spending the weekend at Mrs. Weatherley’s.

Mrs. Frasier Hood has returned from an enjoyable trip to New York.

During the early part of the week Doctor Blank from Sanitorium, N. C., examined a number of school children and adults at both the white and colored schools for diseases of the chest.

Mrs. W. L. Porter is among the latest influenza victims.

Davidsonians who attended the Laymen’s Convention in Charlotte last week say that it looked like a meeting of the Davidson Alumni Association. Many of the present student body were there as well as their fathers and grandfathers.

The Thelemite Book Club met last week at the home of Mrs. S. C. Crary.of the Ninth North Carolina District. In them will be found all the happenings of the past Congressional session.

STUDENTS BOOK LYCEUM COURSE FOR NEXT YEAR

A splendid Lyceum course has been booked for next year. The course includes four numbers, two coming before the Christmas holidays and two in January. The program presents a male quartet, The Virginia Girls, a company presenting two splendid three-act plays, and a company of Irish singers, featuring Irish folk songs. The promoters are J. E. Weldon, Bill Glenn, and C. W. D.

DAVIDSON HAS RESORTED (Continued from Page 5)

Lastly, it would have been positively unsportsmanlike to burn a place like that, because that’s where they serve the eats. Oh, you fire-worshipers, if you have to worship fire do it right. Get some system to your methods. Do it like old Zoroaster himself would have done it if he had been acquainted with modern methods.

Henderson Auto Electric Company
GAS, OILS, BATTERIES, TIRES, TUBES
ACCESSORIES, EXPERT REPAIR
Davidson, N. C.

Goodrich Silvertown Cord Tires

Electric Shoe Shop
LET US REPAIR YOUR SHOES
We Double Their Life
Davidson, N. C.

Athletics play an important part at Davidson high school and it is from such a school that the men at college are recruited.

GOLF TOURNAMENT WITH SALISBURY PENDING

Attention, ye golf hounds! Negotiations are under way for a golf tournament with the Salisbury Golf Club. The first match will be played at Davidson. A definite announcement of the date will be made as soon as possible. All men who are interested are requested to hand in three signed scores to J. S. Bachman, or C. W. McCrary. The five men composing the team will be chosen from these scores. There is plenty of material at Davidson and a good season is anticipated.

W. B. Barnette & Co.
All kinds of Fancy and Heavy Groceries
Davidson, N. C.

Electrik Maid
BREAD PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Mr. Sample Died Thursday

Hugh Berry Sample, 79 years old, died at his home here at 9:45 o'clock, Thursday night, of paralysis, with which he was stricken Tuesday while working about his yard. He was born near Hopewell Church, September 28, 1843. He served with the Confederate forces throughout the war between the States. He is survived by his wife, who before her marriage was Miss Harriet McCoy, and six children: W. A. Sample, of Statesville; M. M. Sample, of Charlotte; Mrs. J. R. Caldwell; and Misses Lucy, Grace, and Annie Sample, of Davidson; one sister, Mrs. Sam McElroy, of Hopewell, and one brother, J. M. Sample, of Mooresville. The funeral services were conducted from the home Friday afternoon at 3:30 o'clock by Dr. C. M. Richards. Mr. Sample had only lived in Davidson for about a year, yet he was here long enough to endear himself to all. He was laid to rest in the Davidson cemetery, and the newly made mound was covered with flowers, showing the esteem in which the deceased was held.

If you can’t manage things any better than you have been managing them, and still have the yearning after fire-worship, change your tactics altogether. Turn from this old fire and get some strange fire. Get some real live fire and show it how zealous you are. Bring it here for junior speaking.

SUCCESSFUL CONVENTION (Continued from Page 1)

Not a small feature of the convention was the excellent selections rendered by the Columbia Seminary Quartette, whose visit to the campus last year and their work while here is yet remembered by every Davidson man. They were indeed an important link in the chain of services rendered by those who aided in the immediate work of the convention. Considered from all angles, the convention could hardly be called anything but a success.

Men’s U. S. Army Munson-last Shoes at $2.95
Sizes 5½ to 12

Never again will you be able to buy these shoes at such a low price. We were lucky in finding a manufacturer, who was overstocked with them, and needed ready cash, so we bought them at almost one-half of the regular price. This shoe is made over the U. S. Army Munson last, with extra heavy chrome brown leather used throughout. An ideal shoe for workmen, farmers, motor car men, who are obliged to be on their feet all day. Send correct size. Pay Postman $2.95 on delivery, or send us a money order. If you are not satisfied with these shoes after you examine them, we will promptly refund your money.

U. S. DISTRIBUTING & SALES COMPANY
20-26 West 22nd St.
NEW YORK CITY, N. Y.

Spring Is Here
Plant a Garden!

COME TO US FOR YOUR EVERY NEED

Seeds: Irish Cobbler seed potatoes. Fresh stock of excellent quality just received. Onion Sets. We have them. Yellow Denver—none better for this locality. We have a complete stock of FERRY’S well-known seeds. Now is the time to plant lettuce, peas, and radish.

Implements: Garden plows, “PLANTER JR.,” one-man power. An excellent implement that will do the work and at the same time afford good exercise. Hoes, rakes, and weeders of dependable quality.

The M. H. Goodrum & Co.
SOUTH MAIN STREET