THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

CHRISTIAN LEADERSHIP MR. NEWELL’S THEME

A large gathering was present to hear Mr. J. F. Newell, of Charlotte, prominent in political and legal affairs of
the State, who addressed the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening. Arnett Gamble presided, introducing the speaker of the evening.
Buck Currie led in the song service, and Purdy, Thompson, and Finn furnished the instrumental music. Eugene Regan and Layton
Fraser led the house in prayer after the opening songs. Gamble read the scripture lesson for the evening, which was
found in John 2, a chapter in which Christ’s leadership is shown. Mr. Newell was then introduced.

“Leadership” was the theme on which Mr. Newell based his remarks. “The world,” said the speaker, “is in a terrible
condition. Nations are suspicious of each other. We have fallen because the world is full of greed. It is full
of the desire for power, for money, and for pleasure which destroys man’s character. Men are giving, and nations are
giving their energies, their very lives, in their desire for wealth, power, and pleasure.

“The world today needs leadership, Christian leadership, to save it from the perils confronting it. Honest, sincere thought is necessary
for overcoming the existing evils, and this thought must come from men who are honest and sincere Christian leaders. Today
there is a class hatred growing up. Although we live in a democracy, still we are ruled by a minority,
and will continue to be ruled by them as long as the minority thinks and the majority follow the minority
without thinking for themselves.

“We need transformation, not reform. We must be made over, not patched up as second-hand material. To bring about this
transformation there must be a new leadership, ruled by right.

“An educated mind without an educated heart is a menace to humanity. If our country teaches the sciences and knowledge
of the day to barbarians, without at the same time teaching the principles of Christ, they have made the world
worse instead of better. Christ was lifted up that He might draw all men unto Him. Those who are brought
to Him are lifted up, and by them the world is helped.

“Your view of leadership determines the amount of good you will do to this world. The only true kind of
leadership is the leadership after Christ. The world calls for men today who will stand up for their Christian principles
against the world. We need men who are different. Martin Luther, who dared to stand for his religion, made Germany
prosper, and when she turned from his teachings she turned toward her doom. John Calvin, John Wesley, and Knox made
England better than all the other men of their generation, because they proclaimed the greatness of God. When England turns
from their teachings she will turn her face from the light, and when America turns away, she, too, will have
seen her brightest day.

“The most powerful man today is he who most fearlessly proclaims the truth of God. He is the man that
the world needs today. America was founded on the Cross; the Constitution of the United States was written and signed
after much prayer to God. Man’s destiny depends on his attitude toward Christianity. No one can be a true leader
without religion.”

The keyword of the conference was prayer. At the State Volunteer headquarters, all the workers, even the elevator boy, gather
at 11 o'clock each day for prayer. The fact was emphasized that an ocean voyage does not make a missionary.
Unless we are working for the Master here, we will not be good workers when we arrive in a foreign
country. The returned missionaries and foreign students who addressed the conference were enthusiastic over the work. There are Syrian students
who want to return to their homes as missionaries to the Turks, although the Turks have almost exterminated their people.
The conference was full of friendliness, but underneath all of it there was a more serious feeling. These Volunteers prove
that it is entirely practicable to be light-hearted over one’s religion. In the meetings, the denominational differences are lost sight
of and all are fundamentally one. One of the speakers said: “You can’t think of Napoleon without thinking of war.
You can’t think of Mozart without thinking of music. What do people think of when they think of you?”

The Volunteer Conference will be held this year at N. C. State on the 9th, 10th, and 11th of March.
All students who can are urged to attend.

CHRISTIANITY HAS NOT FAILED, SAYS PASTOR

Sunday morning, Doctor Richards showed that simply because Christianity has not worked out in its fullest form on earth as
reported in the prophecies about the Millennium, Christianity has not failed in the least sense of the word. God’s plans
are infinite and the little glimpse which one generation has does not disprove the prophecies. Because of the atrocities committed
on earth; because of the late war; because things seem to be evil, people claim that there is no such
thing as the millennium, and that Christianity has failed. The Israelites also said God had failed them when He did
not take them immediately into the Promised Land.

“No,” says Doctor Richards, “God has not failed, it is the people who have failed. Christian principles never fail.” He
then went on to cite various national policies that were guided by Christian principles that did not fail; such as
the United States giving back to China the surplus indemnity, our dealings with the Philippine Islands, etc. Because we did
not ratify the League of Nations treaty, it was not Christianity that failed, but the people—because of unbelief. A proverb
says, ‘Do not show an incompleted work to a fool.’ The bringing of nations together into the millennial state is
an incompleted work. Let us not scoff at God’s principles, but let us practice them in our lives and in
our business and see that they are the remedy for all evil.”

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
Eu Society, 7:00 p.m.
Phi Society, 7:00 p.m.
Wildcats vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.

FORMER NOTED ARTIST TO ADDRESS STUDENTS

Next Sunday the Davidson “Y” will have the privilege of hearing an artist, Mr. McKendree Robbins Long. Mr. Long, who
is from Statesville, was a 1908 graduate. Since then he has studied art both in American and foreign schools, under
great masters. After his return from abroad, he taught in an art school in Los Angeles, Cal., and has contributed
much to the world of American art. Of especial interest are some of his productions which hang on the walls
of the Supreme Court room in Raleigh and other prominent places in the State. Last fall, Mr. Long voluntarily gave
up his brilliant career for the ministry of the gospel. His work is in connection with the Presbyterian Church. Such
a man cannot fail to have a wonderful message for young men who are just starting their careers. His example
will serve to stir others to think seriously before definitely choosing their life work.

CAPTAIN HEARN TALKS

The Ministerial Band was fortunate in having Captain Hearn speak at its meeting Sunday morning. The speaker impressed the members
of the band with the fact that what Mexico needs is ministers made of the right mettle. No matter what
a man’s business is, he has a candle somewhere, and it could be of help to someone. “Ministers,” the speaker
said, “do not cease to be citizens when they accept pastorates, and they should make it a part of their
work to help put the right man in office. Mexico today is full of dishonest statesmanship, and the people seem
to have been born for dishonesty.” Captain Hearn gave an interesting account of his stay in El Paso and San
Antonio. “Their soil is poor, no timber on the land, and very little food. Occasionally you will find a school,
taught by Americans. The people spend all of their spare time at cockfights. The only churches they haveare Catholic, and
very few of those.” The speaker impressed the members of the band with the fact that the ministry is the
biggest, best, and most wholesome investment that a man can make, and urged that the members of the band place
their candles on candlesticks so that their light will shine in the dark corners.

GLORIA SWANSON STARS IN WEEKLY MOVIE SHOW

Gloria Swanson was the star in the picture, “My American Wife,” at the weekly movie Saturday night. She played the
role of Natalie Chester, a native of Kentucky and the daughter of the American ambassador at Buenos Aires, Argentina. Natalie,
a girl with a passion for horse racing, met with a Spanish nobleman, Manuel Santos, at one of the races,
and this meeting was the beginning of their romance. Manuel was the sheriff of Cordoba but took little interest in
the discharge of his duty. He arranged a reception and invited Natalie. At this reception, he struck Padro, the son
of a political grafter, for insulting Natalie, and as a result, Padro challenged him to a duel. The duel was
fought the next day.

TO MINISTERIAL BAND ENDEAVOR TRAINING CLASS LED BY BARR

An interesting meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class was held at its regular hour in Shearer Hall Sunday. The
meeting was led by Barr. The plan for the meeting was to imitate a Young Peoples’ conference and several points
of interest in regard to Young Peoples’ and Christian Endeavor work were discussed. The number system started by Mr. Anderson
about three years ago was discussed. Mr. Anderson is the topic editor for the Christian Endeavor World and his system
is to assign numbers to different members of the society and to follow his number system in the topics which
he furnishes in the Christian Endeavor World. Perhaps one week that number will be a talk on the topic, and
the next it will be a prayer or some other part of the program. This system makes an interesting meeting
and allows the members to get a variety of things to do. The system is comparatively new and there are
many societies that do not know of it. If it is tried it will be found interesting.

RELAY CARNIVAL WILL BE HELD IN GEORGIA

The Georgia School of Technology will hold its first annual intercollegiate Carnival, April 28, 1923, at Grant Field, Atlanta, Ga.
Invitations have been issued to 71 colleges and 131 prep schools throughout the South and Southeast. They will be modeled
closely after the games held at the University of Pennsylvania. And it is the hope of the promoters of these
games that they will become for the South what the Penn Relays are for teams in that section of the
country. Along with the usual relays will be given five special events namely: 100-yard dash, 120-yard high hurdles, javelin throw,
high jump, and the pole vault. These events are open only to college undergraduates and each school will be allowed
to enter two men in each event. Gold, silver, and bronze medals will be given as prizes in these events.
Gold medals will be given to each member of the winning relay teams in the Class A events, while silver
medals will be given to the winning relay team in the Class B events. Tech Relays offered will be the
half-mile, one-mile relay, two-mile relay, four-mile relay, and the sprint medley relay in which the first two men run 220
yards, the third 440 yards, and the fourth man 880 yards. Davidson athletes are considering entering train men for the
events.

HERE AND THERE

Rev. L. T. Wilds, '05, has been recently called to the pastorate of the church in Hendersonville, N. C. J.
B. Johnston, ‘90, is a manufacturer of both flour and furniture at Mocksville, N. C. George H. Hall, '95, is
a banker of Hickory, N. C.

PHYSICS LABORATORY COMPLETELY EQUIPPED

Since the Chambers fire, which destroyed the physics equipment, the physical laboratory has been completely furnished. Physics I class is
now fully equipped with materials and apparatus. Two fifteen-horsepower motor generator sets, one being an alternating current motor and the
other a direct current motor; one especially equipped motor generator set which can be run as a direct current generator
or as an alternating current instrument. This generator is so constructed that the phase and frequency can be changed and
it can be converted into an induction or synchronous motor; one specially designed induction motor made for laboratories so that
the various parts can be inspected and studied. Besides these, six or eight smaller generators and motors and a complete
equipment of transformers and auto-starters have been installed. Apparatus for high frequency and X-ray work, and also a wireless radio
outfit are now being installed.

Fellows, begin now to write the boys you wish to see at Davidson next fall.

Columbia Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

We wish the Davidson students to note:
I. That all candidates for the Ministry have a warm welcome at Columbia Seminary, but it has special claims upon
those coming from the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
II. Columbia has a faculty of eight men, each a specialist in his own department.
III. Columbia is a railway center, with lines branching out in every direction, enabling the Seminary students to supply vacant
Churches over a very large territory with a minimum loss of time from the campus.
IV. The standard requirement for the B.D. Degree of this seminary is as high as any in the United States.
At the same time, it gives an excellent English Course, with graduating certificates, to those students who are so recommended
by their Presbyteries.
V. Sufficient financial aid is rendered to all deserving students through endowed and special scholarships.

Send for the latest catalog to
R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

Wildcat Minstrel at Greenville, S.C. FRIDAY
Wildcats vs. Elon, there.
Wildcat Minstrel at Gastonia, N.C.

SATURDAY
Jack Holt in “Nobody’s Money,” 7:15 p.m.

SUNDAY
Volunteer Band, 10:00 a.m.
Ministerial Band, 10:00 a.m.
Christian Endeavor Class, 1:00 p.m.
Sunday School, 3:30 p.m.
“Y” Service, 6:15 p.m.

TO BE HELD AT STATE

The Volunteer meeting was led last Sunday by J. L. Green. As a part of the devotional exercises, the leader
read Romans 12, considering the picture which that selection gives of an ideal missionary. Perrin Hudgins and Payne Brown spoke
on the Volunteer Conference, which was held last year at Greensboro. The purpose of this conference is to help us
stop and think. We are absorbed in our studies here at school and we need to get our eyes elsewhere
for a short time to get a broader view of life. The conference helps us to do this.

MONDAY
Wildcats vs. Wake Forest.

TUESDAY
Metropolitan Society, 6:45 p.m.
Pandemic Society, 7:15 p.m.

WEDNESDAY
Wildcats vs. Clemson.
