‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923

Nine New Instructors Called to Davidson As Faculty Members

Mr. C. K. Brown
The Davidson faculty welcomes to its membership Prof. Charles Kenneth Brown, A.B., Davidson; M.A., Carolina, who takes the position of
Prof. L. M. Currie in the Mathematics Department. Coming to Davidson in the fall of 1917, Mr. Brown soon became
prominent, being best known in scholastic and oratorical circles. During his four years, he was a member of the Intercollegiate
Debating team for two years, president and critic of the Philanthropic Literary Society, a member of the Memir Society which
has been succeeded by Phi Beta Kappa, Honor Roll student, member of Y. M. C. A. Board of Control, and
President of Le Circle Francais. As a climax to his scholastic work he graduated as valedictorian of the class of
1921.

During the summer of 1921, Mr. Brown attended the University of Besancon, in France, from which institution he received the
Certificat d'Etudes Francais. Returning to America, he engaged in work for one year and entered the University of North Carolina
in the fall of 1922, where he held the position of Teaching Fellow and received his degree of Master of
Arts. His Alma Mater called for his service this year and he has returned to teach in the halls in
which only two years ago he was the taught. All Davidson welcomes Professor Brown.

Mr. Fred L. Dendy
Mr. Fred L. Dendy, of Gadsden, Ala., comes to Davidson as professor of Public Speaking and Debate, filling the vacancy
caused by the resignation of Mr. Wagner. Mr. Dendy graduated from Valparaiso University, in Indiana, and completed his course there
in 1921. In addition to this training, he has taken special courses in the University of Chicago and the University
of Indiana. While in college Mr. Dendy was president of his class all four years and in his Senior year
was honored with the presidency of the Y. M. C. A. His work since graduation has consisted of one year
in business in Los Angeles, Cal., as professor of public speaking and director of dramatics in El Paso Junior College,
and one year in chautauqua work as an impersonator and actor.

Mr. W. M. Mebane
Mr. W. M. Mebane, of Dublin, Va., graduate in the class of ’18, comes back to Davidson this year in
the capacity of an assistant in the Physics Department. Mr. Locke Currie, who filled this position last year, has gone
to Cornell University, to take post-graduate work in physics. While at Davidson Mr. Mebane made a very creditable showing in
the Physics department, was interested in the work, and is very capable of filling the position to which he has
been elected. He was very prominent in the athletic activities of his class. After Mr. Mebane left Davidson he went
to Blacksburg, Va., where he took a special course in Mechanical Engineering at V. P. I. He then spent some
time at Niagara Falls, N. Y., engaged in chemical engineering. For the last year or two he has been engaged
in business at his home.

Coach C. R. Rawson
Four full teams of verdant new boys have been daily practicing the pigskin art for a week behind the tennis
courts, and already signs are appearing that indicate a hard day for any team that may meet them on the
gridiron. Of course, there is a reason, and Clarence Rawson, graduate of the University of Georgia, is the cause of
it all. Coach Rawson is not only a producer of athletes, but he is an all-round athlete himself. He not
only made his letter at Georgia in baseball and basketball for four years, but was picked up as all-Southern in
basketball for four years and in baseball for two years. As a baseball player, he handled the receiving end of
the battery. As a guard, he held down the guard position in the famous Georgia defense. During the War, Rawson
played on the Camp Hancock football team, playing in the backfield along with Howard Berry, the all-American half-back. For the
past five years, Rawson has coached some of the best prep teams in Georgia. He was coach at G. M.
C., which is noted in Georgia for its hard-hitting teams, for one year; and at Riverside Military Academy, which is
always a likely candidate for all-State honors in Georgia, for three years. Last year he turned out stellar squads in
football, basketball, and baseball at Thomasville (Ga.) High School. Coach Rawson’s home is Athens, Ga. He adds another to the
already long list of valuable contributions to the “honor of old Davidson” from the state of Georgia.

Coach S. D. Tilson
In Coach Tilson, Davidson has without a doubt one of the best line coaches to be found in the South.
His football career began at V. P. I. shortly after matriculating there. Tilson came to V. P. I. straight from
a large ranch in Texas with his six-shooter still attached to his belt, it is said, ready to fight his
way through the hardships of a Freshman’s life. A football was an entirely new thing to this large cowboy from
Texas. The game fascinated him, and his size, strength, and fighting spirit were strong enough recommendations for the football coach,
who immediately saw that Tilson was the find of the season. Tilson soon made a name for himself as a
truly great tackle. He was All-Southern tackle for three years. Last year, besides holding the captaincy of the strong Tech
team, his name won a prominent place on the All-Southern and All-South-Atlantic honor rolls. Hats off to Coach Tilson! May
his success as our coach be as complete as the success which he has enjoyed as a player.

Mr. D. B. VanSant
Mr. D. B. VanSant has been secured by the college to take over that part of Mr. Jackson’s work pertaining
to the grounds and buildings, the latter's department having assumed such proportions in the past few years that another man
was needed. Mr. VanSant is an expert Civil Engineer, having graduated from the Civil Engineering Department of N.C. State. While
at N.C. State, he held a prominent place in the student activities. During his Freshman year, he so led his
classmates that at the end of the year he was elected president of the Sophomore class. He was elected president
of the student body in his Senior year and hence attained the most coveted honor at State. Mr. VanSant was
also an athlete of prominence, playing center on the football team for two years. So well did he acquit himself,
that he was mentioned by several coaches for an all-State berth.

Captain W. E. Weems
Davidson College is indeed fortunate in having Captain Weems connected with the local R. O. T. C. unit this year.
Captain Weems comes to Davidson with a very broad experience, in student affairs, in military, in Y. M. C. A.
activities, Bible classes, and in athletics. Captain Weems attended Southwestern Presbyterian University, of Clarksville, Tenn. After one year at this
institution, he became a cadet at West Point, where his sterling character made him a leader. His first office was
secretary of the Y. M. C. A. and during his Senior year he was elected president of that organization. He
was also on the job when it came to other student activities; as a wrestler, he was the light-heavyweight champion,
in football he held the position as linesman. In his Senior year, he was a cadet captain. After graduating at
West Point, he went overseas, and there he served as commander of the machine gun battalion, in the 3rd division.
When the war was over, he was detailed as a machine gun instructor. Here it might be mentioned that he
passed on the machine gun section in the R. O. T. C. Manual studied here. He was then transferred to
Fort Benning, Ga., where he served as instructor for two years. During this time he played on the football squad
made up of officers, and among their numerous opponents...They played the University of Georgia and Clemson. He will probably be
used as an official for some of the local Freshmen games this year.

Mr. J. P. Williams

Mr. John P. Williams, an old Davidson man and graduate of 1916, comes to occupy the post of “Y” secretary
this year, filling the vacancy left by Buck Currie, who has gone to Louisville Seminary. While at Davidson, Mr. Williams
made an enviable record, being especially prominent in all college activities of a literary nature. Mr. Williams was prominent in
student body activities throughout his college career, filling consecutively the offices of secretary-treasurer, vice-president, and president. He served also in
the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, as manager of tennis, and was editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian.

Since graduating from Davidson, he has been engaged especially in educational work. He was business manager of the University of
New Mexico for one year, did municipal research work in New York City and Rochester, and last year was president
of Greenbrier Lewisburg, W. Va. Mr. Williams comes to Davidson especially fitted for this work, being an old Davidson graduate
who knows the needs of the campus and who is in a splendid position to mingle with the men and
help them with college problems.

Head Coach W. L. Younger

William Lee Younger, familiarly known as “Monk,” has taken hold of athletics at Davidson with the same aggressiveness and skill
which won him a most enviable record in his college days. A native of Lynchburg, Va., Coach Younger received his
earliest training in Lynchburg High School, going then to Fishburne Military Academy, where Bill Fetzer was coaching. In 1915, “Monk”
followed his coach from the military school to Davidson. Here his college athletic career began in a blaze of glory.
In his Freshman year, Younger was an All-State end, guard on the Red and Black basketball quint, second baseman on
the baseball team, and winner of the high jump in a track meet. He is the only athlete who ever
succeeded in winning a letter in four branches of sport at Davidson.

In the fall of 1916, “Monk” went to V. P. I., where he was the bright light on Tech’s football
eleven. He was named for All-South-Atlantic, and in a game with Yale performed so admirably that Walter Camp complimented Younger
as the most aggressive end he had ever seen on a Southern team. On V. P. I’s basketball team of
1917, “Monk” held a position of guard, and Spring found him at the second sack on the baseball diamond. The
following summer he joined the University of Virginia Ambulance Unit and saw 17 months of service overseas. Returning in 1919,
he became Athletic Director at Hampden-Sidney College and turned out some remarkable teams. Next year, Younger was called to V.
P. I. as assistant on the gridiron and head coach of basketball and baseball. For three years, he produced wonderful
wing men, one of the Tech ends being chosen each year for the mythical All-South-Atlantic eleven.

Coming to Davidson with so splendid a record, Coach “Monk” has started things humming on the gridiron, and with the
whole-hearted support of the student body, he cannot but turn out one of the best elevens that ever fought for
the Red and Black banner.

CALL TO QUIT KNOCKING VOICED BY PROF. CURRIE

(Continued from page 1)

Israelites when there seemed to be no way out. “In her conquest, if she was to gain more territory, Israel
must take Jericho. It was there that God gave the order to the Israelites to keep quiet as they marched
around the city. This command, ‘Keep quiet!’ was given to keep off knockers. “That was a true test for Joshua
and his followers. There were many who doubtless thought they knew better than God. To them, the plan of marching
around the city every day was absolute folly. However, Joshua and his people did God’s will instead of their own.
They were loyal in giving to Him obedience of the highest type. The people of Jericho ridiculed them from the
walls of the city, but when they gave their loyal obedience, the walls fell, and the city was easily taken.

“No great program was ever put over without the loyal support of the majority of followers, and the nearer unanimous
the support, the greater was the success of the enterprise. No organization of any kind can succeed without the support
of the rank and file. I have no patience,” said Dr. Currie, “with the man who professes himself to be
a Christian, joins the Presbyterian Church, and then knocks the church. He may not agree with everything the church does,
but he must back the church or go to the church he will back. There are always men who are
knocking the ‘Y,’ the coaches, and the faculty. If you think other places are better, the road is open. If
you are going to be a Davidson man, back Davidson! Learn to cultivate that virtue of obedience to constituted authority,
which is a great essential toward success. No one can succeed as a knocker. If you do not like the
way things are run, go and make your complaints to the proper authority, but do not knock. You will love
Davidson as you love no other place. Help Davidson to become a great white edifice, as near perfect as man
can make it, seen and heard far and wide. The greatest pillar in such an edifice is the loyal obedience
of every Davidson man.”

Layton Green led the song service, while Ted Jones introduced the speaker. Wallis Purdy was at his accustomed place as
pianist. During the opening exercises, Hodgin led in prayer and at the conclusion, Professor Currie dismissed the service.

CALENDAR

Friday
3:30—Davidson vs. P. C. at Rock Hill.

Saturday
Movies: Gloria Swanson in Bluebeard’s Eighth Wife.

Sunday
10 a.m.—Bible Classes.
2 p.m.—Ministerial Band Meeting.
6:15 p.m.—“Y” Service.
7:15 p.m.—Volunteer Band Meeting.

Tuesday
7:30 p.m.—Pandemic Literary Society.
7:30 p.m.—Metropolitan Literary Society.

Wednesday
Re Exams. See article on re-exams.

Thursday
7:30 p.m.—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:30 p.m.—Philanthropic Literary Society.

LACQUER-RED COLOR MAKES IT HARD TO LOSE

Tanager

The Pen that made the Grade Will Help You Make It Too

One reason alone that the Parker Duofold is invaluable to students is because fluent writing induces fluent thinking! You can’t
compose your thoughts if an unruly pen harries your brain. But Duofold’s balanced swing, its super-smooth point, its fit and
business-like feel in your hand, all give your mind free rein! Ask your student friends who use this classic pen—they’ll
tell you they would rather let go of seven dollars than have to part with the faithful Duofold. Its over-size
ink capacity holds a long-distance ink supply. And its point is not only smooth as a polished jewel, but no
style of writing can distort it; hence, a pen you can lend without fear. Students call it the “All-American” Pen
because it’s the ranking favorite at leading universities and colleges. Give yourself a flying start this year by getting Duofold
this week.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN

Parker Duofold Jr. $5
Same except for size
With ring for chatelaine

FOR SALE BY
WHITE DRUG CO.
W. S. HENDERSON
