THE EXAMINATION SCHEDULE
Session 1922-23
Second Semester

MAY

FRESHMEN
SOPHOMORES
JUNIORS

A. M.
No Classes
No Classes
No Classes
Math. 8 and 4

Thurs, 24
Pol. Science 2

P. M.
Math. 1
Math 2
Church History

A. M.
French 1
French 2
French 3 & Philosophy
Latin 1
Latin 2
Law & Education 2

P. M.
Biology 1
Biology 2

A. M.
Sat, 26
R.O.T.C. 1
R.O.T.C. 2
R.O.T.C. 3 and 4

P. M.
Accounting

A. M.
Phys. & Hyg.
Psychology 1, 2 and 3

Tues, 29
P. M.
Economics 1, 2 and 3

A. M.
Chemistry 1
Chemistry 2
Chemistry 3, 5, 6 & 4

Wed, 30
P. M.
English 1
English 2
English 3 and 4

A. M.
Thurs, 31
History 1
History 2 and 3

P. M.
German 1
German 2
German 3
Greek 1
Greek 2
Greek 3, 5 and 6

A. M.
Pub. Speaking
Pol. Science 1
Education 1

P. M.
Physics 1
Physics 2, 3 and 4
Pub. Speaking

A. M.
Spanish 1
Spanish 2
Spanish 3 and 4

Sat, June 2
Applied Math. 1 & 2

P. M.
Bible 1
Bible 2
Astronomy, Geology

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Y Service. Last Thursday Doctor Raynall, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, and a graduate of Davidson, addressed the student body. His main theme was Now is the time for action and not for words. His purpose was to organize a War Saving Unit at Davidson.

Field Day. The annual field day exercises were held on Sprunt Field last Monday morning. Great interest in the events was manifested by the entire student body. A total of forty-nine men entered the meet and many hitherto unknown stars were discovered. The Senior class scored the highest number of points, thus winning the meet. The Juniors came next with 35 points and the Fresh took third place with 32 points while the Sophomores brought up the rear with 10 points.

SANDLAPPERS ENJOY A SPRING GATHERING

The annual spring gathering of the Sandlappers from South Carolina took place in the Eumenean Hall last Saturday night. About fifty of the faithful were there to partake of the cakes and sandwiches and peanuts and dopes provided by “Snag” Bailey, the illustrious steward of the evening. After the platters had been licked clean the argument started in real earnest. Prof. J. L. Douglas led off and Dr. J. M. Douglas and Dr. J. M. MacConnell followed. Having been told of the good old days, Leonard Dick and others began to discuss the pregnant present. This discussion centered mainly about the reasons why the Sandlapper contingent at old S. C. has not been on the increase of late. After the clouds had rolled away it seemed to be pretty well established that the Club should get to work pronto and see that the old Palmetto state be represented in proper force next year. Plans were laid for a joint meeting of students, their relatives and friends, and alumni some time during Commencement at which time South Carolina at Davidson could be further discussed. The names of prospective students from South Carolina were assigned to each member of the Club who will get in touch with the new men and assist them in their work of setting rooms and roommates. In addition, the Club plans to get in touch with every important high school and preparatory school in the state. J. I. Smith of Greenville was elected to succeed W. J. Cooper, of Kingstree, as president. Brown McCallum will succeed H. H. Smith as vice-president and “Buck” Shaw will assume the duties of secretary and treasurer, succeeding R. F. Davidson and W. T. Elliott. A steward will be elected later.

DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

FOR SENIORS
Session 1922-23
Second Semester

SATURDAY, MAY 19
A. M.—Economics 1, Latin 3, Spanish 3, Chemistry 2.
P. M.—Chemistry 5, Greek 6, Spanish 4.

TUESDAY, MAY 22
A. M.—Accounting, History 4, Pol. Science 1, Physics 4.
P. M.—French 1-A, Spanish 1-A, German 1-A.

WEDNESDAY, MAY 23
A. M.—Astronomy, Geology, Biology 4, History 3 and 4.Physics 2 and 5. P. M.—
THURSDAY, MAY 24
A. M.—Chemistry 4, French 3, German 3, Greek 5, Law.
P. M.—Chemistry 3, Church History, Education 1, Pol. Science 2.

FRIDAY, MAY 25
A. M.—English 4, Philosophy, Biology 1, Physics 1.
P. M.—Chemistry 6, Economics 2, Education 2, English 8, Mathematics 3, Biology 2.

SATURDAY, MAY 26
A. M.—Applied Math. 1, Psychology 2, Chemistry 1, Public Speaking and Debate.
P. M.—Economics 3, Math. 4, Psychology 1 and 5, R. O. T. C.

It is rumored that Alkali Jones, the Chemistry student, has perfected a non-smellable onion with which he intends to revolutionize the boarding house industry. Not to be outdone by this, Jack Austin has invented a golf ball which has a powerful odor made of his two-week’s socks in its interior. When the ball is sliced into the rough, it is a simple matter to track it down. D. G. M. Hodgin was drawn to N. C. C. W. by some fair damsel last week.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

SHORT STORY ANTHOLOGY TO BE PUBLISHED SOON

The last session of the North Carolina Press Association decided to put out an anthology of North Carolina short stories selected from material submitted by the various colleges of the state. The primary aim of the association is to publish the stories and only the stories which are representative of the talent in every North Carolina college.

A committee for the purpose of taking this work in charge has been selected and is already at work. R. R. Jones of Davidson is heading the committee and with him are associated Lyman of Elon, Allen of Trinity, and one man from State College who has not been selected as yet. Letters have already been written by the chairman of this committee to ten of the best and largest publishing houses in the state for bids on the work.

The stories will be sent in from all parts of the state and any person who is a bona-fide student of a college which belongs to the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association is eligible to submit a story. All contributions will be carefully read and selected by a special committee. This committee will be composed of members of the literary boards in the various colleges, probably three men in number. These stories will be judged entirely on their merits. May 31 has been set as the day by which time all contributions must have been submitted. The anthology will probably appear during the summer. Plans are being made for the printing of 2,000 copies, one of which will be placed in the library of every college of note in the country. The proposed book will contain 145 pages, 125 consisting of literary matter and twenty of advertisements.

“I’d walk a mile for a camel,” said the Arab, lost on the desert.

SMART SHOES FOR THE WELL DRESSED MAN

We take special pride in the splendid facilities and complete stocks to be found in our Shoe Department. Here you will find high grade footwear only—and priced remarkably low.

French, Shriner and Urner Oxfords... $10 to $11.50
$12 to $13.50

YOUR SUIT FOR SPRING

Is in this wonderful assortment. You will find it a pleasure to select your new Spring suit at Tate-Brown’s. A wonderfully large selection is here for you—in every style that is smart for Spring. Single and double breasted, conservative, sport models in an array of beautiful patterns. Great groups at $35, $40, $45, $50.

For an unusually good suit value we recommend these garments at $35. The careful tailoring in these all-wool fabrics offers correct style and good wearing qualities. Extra trousers included.

It’s a genuine pleasure to try one of these ultra smart suits at $50. Silk lined, expertly tailored, beautifully finished—and a wonderful selection of patterns.

$35 TOPCOATS!

Smart looking coats in box and other new styles. Spring tweeds. A very special value at $35 to $55.

Society Brand Suits for Young Men—
THE TATE-BROWN CO.
SOUTH TRYON STREET

$40 to $65
Overplaids, fancy backs and $60