THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS.......... Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE.......... Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE.......... Managing Editor
A. LAKE.......... Assistant Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD.......... Associate Editor
A. B. PRICE.......... Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN.......... Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY.......... Athletic Editor
W. M. COX.......... Associate Editor
J. M. SELSER.......... Peanut Parcher Editor
O. J. ALLISON.......... Alumni Editor

Business Staff
BILL P. STOR.......... Subscription Manager
K. S. McALPIN.......... Service Manager
WATT McCAIN.......... Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON.......... Bookkeeper
W. H. LYNCH.......... Assistant Manager Service Department
J. M. GARRISON.......... Assistant Advertising Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WATT McCAIN, Manager

EDITORIAL

ON THE WAY OF LIFE

“Curve right” and “curve left” flash vividly before the autoist’s eye whenever he travels in North Carolina. In the development of the best highway system in America, the officials of North Carolina have not neglected their duty in posting properly the routes of travel. These “sharp curves ahead” signs are posted to protect the lives of hurrying travelers. “Danger—Railroad Crossing,” and “Danger—Crossroads” signs govern conflict between vehicles. “Road under repair—Detour” signs protect the tourist from pitfalls and worn spots. Roads are marked, highways and routes are numbered, destinations are emblazoned on direction arms—to guide the cautious traveler.

The statesmen and legislators have done no more for the highways of North Carolina than the Creator has done for the road of life. Narrow and long as it may be, the pathway that leads through the years is a well-posted one; torturous and winding though it be, there are directions printed everywhere to guide the traveler safely to his destination. The pious examples set by other men, the sad misfortunes and mistakes that befall the other fellow, the counsel and advice imparted by those who have lived and learned—are they not signposts on the way of life, pointing out the pitfalls and treacherous spots where human life is endangered?

The highway signs of North Carolina are ignored by the general traveling public, but for the benefit of those whose observing eye searches for a guiding finger, the posting system is maintained. The human mass that surges down that great highway whose milestones are centuries, is little observant of the danger signs posted for them; yet this greatest of all posting systems is maintained in the strictest faith.

Will you hear an appeal, men of Davidson, to follow the directions posted along the way that every man must travel? At a time when you are forming habits that you will follow the rest of your life, make a place in your character for the observance of direction arms and detour signs. Take your eye on the pointers of life, and travel the treacherous highway safely.

EDITOR DANIELS

“Will you please present my compliments to the members of your Association with my thanks for the honor they have done me by regarding me as a young enough editor to attend convention and sit at their feet and learn of them as well as talk with them.” These were the words of the Hon. Josephus Daniels, to the President of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Mr. Daniels is regarded by the college editors of the state as one of North Carolina’s most illustrious men, as one of the South’s greatest editors, and as a brilliant thinker. “The Methodist Conference at Elizabeth City is the only thing that prevents me joining with you in the consideration of problems which interest all of us,” he said, in declining the offer to speak at the Trinity convention last week.

We can cite one evidence at least that the college man of America is improving in gentlemanly qualities. Davidson men are giving up the pleasure of smoking at the weekly movie show.

The water situation is acute, yet it offers a splendid excuse for non-performance of duty in a few alleged cases.

DAVIDSON EXHIBITS POWERFUL OFFENSIVE
(Continued from page 1)

At the opening of the third period, the Wildcats made their fourth bid for victory. Hunt returned the kick-off to the 23-yard line and Wells and Black rushed it to midfield. Hunt punted 49 yards out of bounds on Carolina's 3-yard line. McDonald punted out of bounds on the 31-yard line, Davidson gaining 21 yards on the exchange. Three plays made it first down on the 20-yard line. Three plays gained 9 yards and on the fourth down Carolina recovered a Davidson fumble on the 16-yard line. Carolina worked the ball to midfield and after an interchange of punts made their second score. In the final period, Carolina again advanced the ball into Davidson territory, but Faison intercepted a pass and ran 18 yards to the 30-yard line. The game then resolved itself into a punting duel with Buck and Hunt having a slight edge on McDonald. Buck punted to Shirley, who returned to the 26-yard line. Two penalties forced Carolina back to the 5-yard line and McDonald punted to the 40-yard mark. Sappenfield passed to Buck for a 25-yard gain. Two plays netted no gain. Covington substituted for Hunt and dodged through the line for 8 yards. Wells made it first down on the 5-yard line. Covington was thrown for a 2-yard loss as the whistle blew. The game ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on the 7-yard line and three downs in which to put it across.

Five Davidson regulars did not start the game. Captain McConnell, center; DeArmon, fullback, and Shepherd, halfback, were missing from the Davidson line-up. Tom Baker was also out of the game. On the opening kick-off, Hodgin, the Davidson left tackle, had his leg broken above the ankle. For Carolina, Bonner and McDonald were the bright lights in the backfield, while Fordham and Mclver broke through to throw the Wildcat backs. Hendrix played a wonderful game for Davidson. He ran his team like a veteran, tore through tackle and around end for long gains, and threw forward passes with bullet-like accuracy. When his leg was hurt, Sappenfield took his place at quarter and handled the team well, starring both on the sending and receiving end of forward passes. Wells was the chief gainer for the Red and Black. He circled the ends, bucked the line, dug his way through tackle, and received forward passes for a net gain of 77 yards. Boggs and Lindamood were the outstanding stars in the line. They made the majority of the tackles and few plays were run over them. The Red and Black Machine played the best game of the season. The interference on the end runs and tackle plays paved the way for the Wildcat gains. The Wildcat line, shot to pieces by injuries, averaged slightly over 155 pounds to the man. The line-up and summary follows:

Carolina(14) (3) Davidson that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the Monday Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m.

Davidson men are known everywhere for their gentlemanly conduct and their respect for the Church and interest in its services. However, there have been some things happening at Church during the Sunday morning services for the past month or two that would certainly blot that reputation if they were widely known. The things which I have observed and which I will now mention occurred in the Sophomore section; whether or not the other classes are guilty of them I do not know. Every Sunday morning several students take books, magazines, Sunday newspapers, comic sheets, etc., to Church and read them during the services. Others amuse themselves during the sermon by punching and slapping those around them. And then, at the close of the services when the audience rises for the last hymn, many, usually those who are guilty of the above, crowd into the aisle and stand there talking, laughing, and jostling one another as though they were at a circus or a football game. Then, as soon as the benediction is pronounced, they rush down the aisle, pushing and shoving like cattle rushing out of a pen.

What would a stranger think if he should see people going to church with novels, magazines, and comic papers? And what should we think of college men who will strike and punch each other during Church services? Such conduct could possibly be overlooked in children of kindergarten age, but among college men it shows, to say the least, irreverence and very poor taste. If we care nothing for the services, and go only because we are compelled, we should at least have enough respect for the sanctity of the Church and enough common courtesy not to disturb those around us who are trying to be attentive.

On the basis of schedules prepared by 200 students, Dartmouth College has worked out an estimate of the division of time made by the average undergraduate at Dartmouth. The results show that he works nine hours a day and sleeps eight and a quarter hours. His itemized account of time spent in recreation shows a total of five and one-half hours daily. That leaves one hour and a quarter unaccounted for, which probably can be added to the total given under recreation —Yellow Jacket Weekly-Randolph-Macon.

The Department of Military Science and Tactics has received a nicely illustrated poster showing the advantages of a tour of service in the United States Army; the inducements are considerable, to wit: “A bounty of twelve dollars, an annual and fully sufficient supply of good handsome clothing, a daily allowance of a large and ample ration provision, together with sixty dollars a year in gold and silver money.” Lest there be such a stampede to embrace this opportunity as would depopulate A. & M., we hasten to explain that the poster is a facsimile of a recruiting poster of General Washington in 1776 and posted publicly in Spotswood in Middlesex County, Virginia. The facsimile is posted on the bulletin board in the cafeteria—The Reflector.

Fellows, is this conduct worthy of Davidson? What would a stranger think if he should see people going to church with novels, magazines, and comic papers? And what should we think of college men who will strike and punch each other during Church services? Such conduct could possibly be overlooked in children of kindergarten age, but among college men it shows, to say the least, irreverence and very poor taste. If we care nothing for the services, and go only because we are compelled, we should at least have enough respect for the sanctity of the Church and enough common courtesy not to disturb those around us who are trying to be attentive.

Learn to govern—Temper, Tongue, and Conduct.
Learn to love—Courage, Gentleness, and Affection.
Learn to avoid—Cruelty, Arrogance, and Ingratitude.
Learn to delight in—Frankness, Freedom, and Beauty.
Learn to wish for—Health, Friends, and a Cheerful Spirit.
Learn to respect—Honor, Home, Country, and God.
—Yellow Jacket.

In chapel Monday morning, Dean Bradshaw presented two issues to the student body, one pleasant and the other unpleasant. He urged that every man take some part in the mass athletics that are now being conducted by the University. Since 95 percent of college men become engaged in secretarial pursuits, it is necessary that they be trained to take exercise after working hours, in order that they may keep physically fit. The unpleasant issue was that more care be taken of the dormitory corridors and window panes and that the throwing of paper on the campus be avoided.—The Tar Heel.

Half a million copies of the Bible in the Japanese language are now being printed in the United States. They are for the earthquake sufferers and will be shipped to Japan as soon as possible.—Purple and White.

Three Aggie teams playing a week ago suffered a total of five yards in penalties in their three games. The Freshmen got that on off-side in the first play of their game. That ought to be mighty near a record, especially since one game was a hard-fought tie and another was a defeat by a very close margin.—The Reflector.

As we have gathered in rich harvest from Thy fields, As we have taken lovely fruits from bending trees, So gather Thou, O God, Thanksgiving from our hearts; So take Thou gratitude from those on bended knees.
—The Yellow Jacket.

It is not the man who never fails, but the man who rises after each failure, that wears the crown of honor and success.—The Reflector.

HE LOVES SCREEN STARS

Within the past three years, David Powell has been permitted to make love to the following famous beauties: Mary Pickford, Elsie Ferguson, Bebe Daniels, Nita Naldi, Irene Castle, Mae Murray, Alice Brady, Marguerite Courtot, Dorothy Dalton, and Gloria Swanson. Now he is doing likewise with Alice Joyce in “The Green Goddess,” the Distinctive Pictures Corporation’s wonderful production of the play of the same name which is to be shown at the Y. M. C. A. Theatre Saturday. He gets paid for doing it, but says if living wasn’t so expensive in New York, he would work for nothing.

Time of quarters 15 minutes each.