6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

Many Large Deputations Going Out from Y.M.C.A.
Three Definite Trips Are Planned Before Holidays—Others Later

The Y.M.C.A. is sending out several deputations just before the Christmas holidays. Plans are being worked out for more after the vacation period. Lee McLean is chairman of the group which will go to Mooresville High within the next few days. Those who will accompany him are H. B. Price, J. H. Caligan, J. A. Caligan, and D. H. Stewart. Barclay Walthall and A. H. Hollingsworth will conduct the evening service at Rev. Mr. McIlwaine’s church in Charlotte, Sunday, December 16th.

On the evening of Thursday, December 13th, Mac Beall and a group will attend a Father and Son banquet at Concord. This banquet will be held under the auspices of the Concord Y.M.C.A. The other plans are somewhat indefinite at present, but the following are the tentative dates for the deputations: On January 12th, a deputation with Albert Hillhouse as chairman, will speak in the Hickory High School. On the same day another group under the leadership of H. M. White will visit Kinston High. Laurinburg High is on the schedule for February 3rd, and it is expected that a group will be sent to Lexington High sometime in January or early in February.

FRONTIS URGES SABBATH OBSERVANCE
(Continued from page 1)

and resting on the Sabbath than by working all seven. “When we violate God’s law, God has a way of ‘getting even’ with us, for ‘whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.’ Solomon left God, and his kingdom went to ruin. But Solomon deserted God, instead of God deserting Solomon. Ministers of the Gospel observe God’s laws better than others, and they have longer lives than any other type of men. ‘If ye will keep my laws, you shall be kept in prosperity,’ says God.

“As an example of God's work against disobedience, Germany was defeated in the World War because she forgot God. Germany was defeated after having the victory seemingly in view seven times.” The speaker cited several incidents in the World War in which God's hand intervened against the Germans by use of elements of nature, when the victory seemed assured for the Teutons. Germany was almost in Paris, their army was 16 miles from the city, and the French defenders of the capital had only enough ammunition to last eight hours, when for no apparent reason the Germans stopped their attack for 36 hours and the capital of France was saved. Again, the Italians were almost certain of defeat, when God sent on the attacking army such a torrent as swept them down to the Po river. “When we knowingly violate God's law, it is a challenge to see if God will keep His word,” said Doctor Frontis.

J. L. McLean presided. Wade Allison was pianist during the service.

DR. JNO. CALVIN METCALF
(Continued from page 1)

and function of the college. He appealed for more time and quiet for pure thinking. “This has always been the diet on which leadership has fed.” He repeated that the duty of the college is two-fold: to impart knowledge, and to bring about an open-mindedness in its students. “The big thing in education is not to make life a bed of roses for us nor to solely strive to make us fit for use, but to teach us self-control, to teach us to think, to teach us to lead.”

“Acquisition of knowledge and investigation for new truths must go hand in hand,” he asserted. “There has been an eternal conflict between the open and the closed mind, and the open mind must prevail. As long as colleges are truth seekers their students will truly be the sons of righteousness.” The speaker brought out that man has ever sought for generalizations and that the college today must meet this need by not only teaching facts but most of all proceeding to unfold the significance of these facts. By thoroughness and insistence upon quality in all things, he said the problems of today must be met and their bearing upon tomorrow determined. “By avoiding intellectual vagrancy, colleges can help the church and state.” And he continued, “It is on the college campus of America that the intellectual flowering of our nation should begin. There should be a desire for discovery. ‘To wish to know the best is a noble passion; To wish to add to life is the finest passion of all.’”

The teacher's duty was, Dr. Metcalf insisted, to think and live progressively. People must not be too insistent upon the standards of yesterday but must ever look toward tomorrow. In a brief, concise summary of what the ideal college is, the speaker closed an address of exceptional merit and importance: “The college is the conservator and defender of wisdom. It is a lighthouse of progress; it is a dynamo of idealism. Its goal lies in a nobler, higher, better thinking and living.”

REV. D. E. FRIERSON DIES AT WINTER HAVEN, FLA.

Rev. D. E. Frierson died at his home in Winter Haven, Fla., November 8th, following a long illness. Mr. Frierson was born in Marion, S. C., and was graduated from Davidson College in 1876, and from Columbia Theological Seminary in 1880. Following his ordination by the Presbytery of Abingdon in 1880, he became pastor of the church at Marion, Va., where he remained until 1885. For the next four years he was pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Lewisburg, W. Va. In 1889 Rev. Mr. Frierson became pastor of the church at Shelbyville, Ky., which position he held for nine years before accepting the pastorate at Hinton, W. Va. From here he was transferred to Florida. He was a most conscientious and consecrated minister, and served the fields in which he worked.In closing, labored with great fidelity, troubled by peas sliding from the knife, they may be mixed with potatoes and eaten with perfect ease. “That Danger Zone,” he phoned her and asked for a date to see Nita Naldi in “Neglected Husbands.” But she elected to “Fight That Film,” so he suggested, “Go to the Beach for Health.” Finally, the night fell but she dodged and began to prepare for her “Dromedary.” She applied a “New Skin” of “The Varnish That Won't Turn White” and “Is Simply Perfect for Any Complexion” because it “Hasn’t Scratched Yet.” She had tried “57 Varieties” and she knew. Her father’s bootlegger had just bought “A Quart of ‘Oil’” with “A Flavor You Can’t Forget” so she put some in her flask so that they might “Enjoy Thirst.” There being great need for caution, she could not use the front door or her father would hear. So she proceeded to “Slip Into a Bradley and Out of Doors.” She had thought that “When Better Cars Are Built” he would bring one but he came in “Just a Good Car.” Her father was pursuing her but she was “Seven Steps Ahead” so they got away free, even though they were annoyed by bullets “Shot From Guns.” She gave him a drink from her flask and he exclaimed, “Delicious and Refreshing” and then, draining the contents, remarked, “Good to the Last Drop.”

Believing that “You Can’t Go Wrong With Any First Song” she started humming “I May Be Dead in a Crowd But I'm Good for an Encore Alone!” and then strung him a line that was an “Explosion of Pedigreed Bunk.” But he was strangely silent. They reached the beach. She could stand his unresponsiveness no longer. She had learned from “How to Play Bridge” when to play her trump card, so she said softly:

“Dearest, how unromantic you are tonight! Can't you be touched by the caressing murmur of the silver-tipped waves, shimmering in the clear, bright light of this glorious moon, while this soft breeze, wandering over the deserted beach, caresses your cheek and whispers unbidden thoughts into your ear? Does not all this beauty move you?”

Softly he replied: “Yes, Irresistibly. I must be moving.” Walking with his slow firm tread he stepped resolutely into the waves. Without ever looking back he walked ever deeper into the deep blue sea. Finally, his head went out of sight, his hat tilted up and three bubbles rose to the surface. A frolicsome young sardine dove through these and even they vanished. Why did he go? “There’s a Reason.” She had not had her Iron that day.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle taught the Men’s Bible Class at the Caldwell Memorial Church, of Charlotte, Sunday morning. The attendance was remarkable, there were over 150 men present.

LOOK MEN

Don’t spend your hard-earned money foolishly and buy for Father, Brother, Husband or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled or plated watch. Limited quantity, genuine, solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold watches. Waltham movements, fifteen jewelled, or Illinois twenty-one jewelled movements. Guarantee enclosed with every watch. Send Post Office order now, don’t delay, and receive immediately sent to you, registered, fully insured, packed in expensive, beautiful lined gift watch case. Act quick.

Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, white or green wrist watches, latest designs, octagon shape models, full jewelled. The thing that you have wanted, and admired on others. Now in the reach of everyone while they last.

EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO.
1482 Broadway, N. Y.
Telephone Bryant 10259

SPECIAL Opportunity of a Lifetime

Give him the best there is, it is the cheapest in the end, to be remembered forever.

VOLUNTEER BAND

A rather unusual meeting was held by the Volunteer Band in Shearer Hall after “Y” last Sunday night. The program was extemporaneous. Two questions were brought up for discussion by eight members of the band. “To what extent should a volunteer, or anyone who professes Jesus Christ be a mixer among all the men with whom he comes in contact?” This question was discussed by Lindley, White, Pitts and N. G. Patterson. “What is the most important characteristic to be cultivated by one intending to go into life service?” Gibbs mentioned Service; Eddington, Friendship and Cheerfulness; McBryde, Completeness and Blend, and Wharton, Faithfulness to duty. All these men presented food for considerable thought. The Misses Patterson from Queens were visitors at the meeting and sang beautifully, “Silent Night.”

HOLIDAY OFFER

BELK BROS. CO.
Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS

Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS

New Fall Hats in Snap Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c
Men’s medium weight unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c