THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

Town News

Mrs. J. P. Williams, wife of Mr. Williams, the “Y” secretary, is expected to arrive here from Montreat this week to join her husband. She will be accompanied by her mother, Mrs. Frelan, who expects to spend the winter in Davidson.

Mrs. C. V. Hurd and daughter Kathleen left last Monday for Atlanta, where they are to spend the fall and early winter. During their absence, Professor and Mrs. Dendy will occupy their home.

During the past summer, there have been a number of Davidson people at Dr. Long’s Hospital in Statesville. Among those who have been there are Mrs. Lilly, Misses Mamie Withers, Martha Thompson, and Elizabeth Potts, all of whom have undergone operations for appendicitis. Mrs. Lilly, Miss Thompson, and Miss Potts have returned home and are rapidly recovering.

The Senior Epworth League was delightfully entertained last Friday night at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Paris Torrence.

Mrs. C. M. Harrell and two children, of Hertford, N. C., are visiting their mother and grandmother, Mrs. J. E. Bratton.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle has returned home after an extended visit to New York. She was accompanied by her mother, Mrs. Souther, and her sister, Mrs. Craig, who, after a visit of two weeks, expect to return to their home in St. Louis.

The Book Lovers Club will meet with Mrs. J. M. Douglas on Friday afternoon. The subject for discussion will be Egyptian Architecture.

At the auction sale the other day of a number of the valuable strips of land which were offered for sale, this land is probably the highest in town (in point of altitude), except for a small portion of it which is slightly undulating, and therefore is a very desirable situation for building. The land formerly belonged to Mrs. Shelton and is situated on the south side of Concord Street. Since the speculators were mostly members of the Faculty, it is suggested that this new section of Davidson be called Faculty Hill. Some of those implicated in the transaction are Professors Fleagle, Porter, and Thies, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. Martin, and Dr. J. W. MacConnell, and Dr. Shewmake.

Buck Currie, Davidson’s former secretary, has been visiting at Dr. Martin’s home during the past week.

Miss Steele entertained in honor of Misses Mary Black and Mary Richards last Tuesday afternoon.

Mrs. J. M. Douglas entertained at dinner last Tuesday night in honor of Misses Mary Black and Mary Richards, and Mr. McDowell Richards accompanied by his sister and Miss Black left last Wednesday for New York. They will sail for England on Saturday, October 6th.

Mrs. Wooten entertained in honor of Miss Mildred Hobbs last Wednesday night. Miss Hobbs is now in Greensboro on a visit.

Miss Elizabeth Cranford, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Manly W. Cranford, and Mr. Claudius Dockery were quietly married at the home of the bride Wednesday night, September 26th.

F. C. Thames, a post-graduate student in the college, is teaching physics at the Davidson High School.

YOU'LL NEED AN O’SHEA SWEATER THIS WINTER
The Commissary Has Them

PHIS ENROLL OVER TWENTY NEW MEMBERS THURSDAY

The Philanthropic Literary Society held a called meeting Thursday night, the 27th, for the purpose of enlisting new men. The class of ’27 was well represented, having on hand 21 men. The class of ’25 and ’26 had one representative. The entire program was impromptu, and the meeting was turned over to the old members, who gave their attention to the initiation of the new members. After short impromptu speeches by Freshmen, the Phi hall was suddenly changed into a dining room. And everybody enjoyed a good feed, which was followed by a smoker. Those who were present and gave their names as new members are as follows: M. S. Beall, ’25; H. J. Alexander, '26; W. S. Gordon, ’27; W. L. Hodgin, ’27; F. K. Justice, ’27; Malcolm McQueen, ’27; J. V. Wells, ’27; J. L. Heiss, Jr., ’27; W. H. Kornegay, Jr., ’27; C. P. Montgomery, ‘27; John Crinkley, ’27; George McLeod, ’27; D. M. Calhoun, ’27; D. M. Currie, ’27; Julian Clark, ’27; K. V. Woodhour, ’27; George Batte, Jr., '27; Emory Hammock, '27; Kenneth Harris, ’27; William Storey, ’27; R. L. Johnston, ’27; Cary Hansel, ’27; Walter Bain, ’27.

DAVIDSON FRESHMEN TO MEET FURMAN YEARLINGS

Saturday afternoon the Davidson Freshies will meet the Furman Freshies on Richardson field. Not much is known of the Furman Freshies as they have played no games so far. But it is expected that they will follow the system which the varsity uses, mainly an aerial attack. They can be relied on to put out a fast, smooth-working machine. The Davidson Wildkittens played Charlotte High last Saturday in Charlotte, defeating 6 to 0. While it was a good game, more was expected of the Fresh. By Saturday many defects will be remedied, they will be over the scared feeling of playing together for the first time and will have more confidence in themselves. Sapp, Brand, Hewlitt, and Bohannan will display a fast offensive. In the line, Johnson, McConnell, and Christian will form the backbone of the line. All in all, the two teams are evenly matched and a lively scrap will be staged.

Dr. Porter Vinson, ’09, of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn., is visiting with his mother, Mrs. W. D. Vinson. Dr. Vinson is accompanied by his wife and baby.

Mrs. Walter Henderson and Mrs. Fleagle entertained Wednesday afternoon with a miscellaneous shower at the home of Mrs. Henderson.

WILDCATS WIN IN CONTEST WITH BARIUM

Preserve the life and traditions of Davidson and never let them become lost, because traditions and honors are invaluable. By the word “light” is meant that we can shine for Christ in no better place than here. We can acknowledge Him and at all times point others to the light of the cross. The talk was thoroughly enjoyed because it was so practical and was presented in such a clear, forceful manner.

PASTOR SPEAKS OF CHRIST’S CHARACTER

Taking his text from I Peter 2:4, 5, Dr. Richards spoke last Sunday on the subject of Christ as a Living Stone. “For those conscious of weakness, we preach Christ,” began Dr. Richards. “If power is sought for personal aggrandizement, it is pitiable; if to serve Christ, there is nothing more laudable.” Dr. Richards pictured the author of the text as being unreliable and impulsive. Peter promised never to forsake Him, and yet he bitterly denied Him. Christ asked, “Whom say men that I am?” Peter answered, “Thou art Christ; thou art the rock.” And Christ replied, “Thou art Peter; thou art the rock, and on this rock will I build my Church.” Conscious of what people thought, i.e.,Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

that he was the rock, Peter wrote these words, “I write of the rock, Jesus Christ. I say it is just as possible for you to become a rock as me.” Peter speaks of Him as a living rock, making those who come to Him living stones. Think of a rock as of power, of permanence, of protection. A rock standing through centuries, subjected to weathering and after centuries the same old rock. Jesus is the same yesterday, today, and forever.

MEN IN THE INFIRMARY FROM LOWER CLASSES

The infirmary has been well patronized since the opening of school; ten men have taken time to visit there for a short while. There have been no serious cases of sickness, however, according to those in charge of the ward. The Freshmen have been well represented on the sick list; eight of the ten who reported at sick-call were first-year men. The other two are said to be Sophomores. These statistics show that if one lives through his first two years of college he is either quite immune from sickness or has learned to take care of himself. It has been suggested that the new men have been getting too many boxes of “eats” from home, and getting rid of them too quickly. Those confined were: L. B. Hope, P. F. Causy, E. Bohannon, J. C. Frierson, D. Lanier, W. A. Brown, W. H. Dodge, R. R. Glenn, F. H. Brooks, A. W. Alexander.

DAVIS REPRESENTING The Ben-Vonde Co. Charlotte, N. C. DRY CLEANERS AND DYERS

FELLOWS! GALLANT Called for Monday Nights SELSER SERVICE ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS 2nd Floor Knox Bldg. SATISFACTION BELK BROS. CO. Clothing Department

In a short and one-sided game, the Davidson High School Wildkittens defeated the light but scrappy team from Barium Springs by the score of 37 to 0. There was no doubt as to the outcome from the beginning to the end, but the visitors showed occasional flashes of form. The quarters were cut short on account of the lack of time, and this evidently kept the score from being what it might have been.

Miss Martha Thompson, who has been ill at Dr. Long’s sanatorium in Statesville, returned to her home here this week.

The first meeting of the Thelemite Club was held at the home of Mrs. Hearn Friday afternoon. Mrs. Porter read a paper on “Sensation,” and Mrs. Fleagle submitted one entitled “Instinct.” The Thelemite Club of Davidson will entertain the Book Lovers Club next at the home of Mrs. Fleagle in honor of Mrs. Dockery.

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer. YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS. Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored.

BARBER SHOP

DROP IN— For The Best Eats In Town THE MISSES SCHOFIELD

What Do You Know About Fire Insurance?

Question 1. Your home is covered by fire insurance. The back porch is destroyed by fire. The original cost of the porch is estimated at $150, but it has been in need of repair for some time and when burned was worth only $100. According to the terms of your policy, what amount should the insurance company pay you? What clause covers this?

Answer: $100. Covered by clause in contract proper on page one of New York Standard Policy, which reads: “... does insure (name of person at interest) and legal representatives to the extent of the actual cash value ascertained with proper deductions (depreciation) of the property at the time of loss or damage.”

W.E. PRICE 813 Piedmont Bldg. Charlotte, N. C.

Monday, October 8th on the farm of Dr. J. W. MacConnell. The entertainment will be in the form of a picnic supper. Master Moffett McConnell, of Chester, S. C., is visiting his uncle, Dr. J. W. MacConnell, for a few days.

THREE MEN ARE KILLED IN DYNAMITE EXPLOSION

On September 27th, at the rock-quarry near the Catawba River, an explosion of dynamite took place which killed one man instantly and wounded others, two of whom died later. It was thought that the quarry was clear of loads, and the drill-operator let his drill down into a hole which had been left from some previous work. This set off a charge of dynamite which was in the hole, unknown to the operator. The head and shoulders of the drill-operator, a white convict, were blown completely off. Two negro convicts sustained fractured skulls and died a few hours later, neither of them having regained consciousness. The blacksmith, a white man who was not a convict, was badly shot up with pieces of stone. He was carried to a hospital in Charlotte. Will Prim, a guard, was slightly wounded in the head by stones, and others sustained minor injuries.

Except for the last few minutes, when Barium completed several passes, they showed lack of coaching and team-play. While they were on this passing spree, the visitors went nearly the whole length of the field. One of these passes gained nearly forty yards, being one of the few bright spots of the game. Another feature was a drop-kick from the forty-yard line by Dick Grey, the local quarterback. This made a total of 19 points for him of the 37 made by the home team. There were no individual stars for the Kittens, every man playing on a par, while the playing of Jackson stood out for Barium.

WALKER MAKES SPLENDID TALK TO VOLUNTEER MEN

Immediately after the “Y” service Sunday evening, Joe Walker gave an interesting and helpful message to the Volunteer Band. His message was centered around three important words, used so many times by Christ in His application of truths, “leaven,” “salt” and “light.” His object was to show the application and relation of these three words to our own student body. With the word “leaven” he showed how we, as individuals, are as molecules of leaven in the bread, which in time should make the bread rise. So are we the life of the campus and are expected to make life here grow and develop. “Salt” is a preserving agent. The application to campus life is that we always

---

Note: Some text appears to be cut off or incomplete, particularly at the end.