THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923 ©

ALHAMBRA THIS WEEK
Guy “Jake” Johnson and his Dolly Dimple Girls
MATINEE DAILY : : 3:30
NIGHT 7:30--9

SHOE REPAIRING
Work Guaranteed
Collected every Monday
Prompt Delivery
Prices Reasonable
E. A. FRY
A. G. RAY, Rep.
No. 2 S. B.

Contrary to the laws of Nature, our campus seems to be getting greener and greener, fresher and fresher every day.

Fresh (at the Elon game)—If we wear our caps they will know that we are Freshmen.
Soph (standing nearby)—Yes, and if you don’t wear them they will think you go to high school.

Can You Imagine It?
Several Fresh got lost in Cornelius on their way to the Elon game, but after several hours of aimless wandering they finally succeeded in finding the football field only to discover that it was all over. They attributed their misfortune to the dense traffic and winding streets of this metropolis. Some folks in Cornelius learned for the first time last Saturday that the war is over.

Since “Spoofy” Hillhouse returned from the mountains of Kentucky his roommate has had to decorate his room with cedar bushes to keep him from getting homesick. (We suggest that a little straw be scattered about the floor in order to carry out the scheme more perfectly.)

Ignorance Is Bliss
The Nobel Booby Prize of 1923 is hereby awarded to Fresh Buckner. He spent an hour in a German class thinking he was learning Spanish.

Fresh—Have you anything good for a cold?
Pablo Price—No, Have you tried Brass?
Fresh—I didn’t know brass was good for one.
Pablo—Aw, I meant have you been to the Infirmary?
Fresh—Do they give you brass there?

Gene Regen asks the Parcher to state that he still has a number of unsold radiators, campus passes, reserved chapel seat tickets, shower bath tickets, etc., on hand and that any Fresh desiring such should see him immediately.

TOBE JOHNSON
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building
DOES IT RIGHT

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Ain’t It the Truth!
Adam sure had it over the Peanut Parcher in one respect at least. Whenever he told a joke nobody could tell him that they had heard it before.

Say It With Music
Watt McCain—Say, Ted, have you heard the latest record?
Ted Jones—Which one?
Watt—The one that has “I Used to Love Her” on one side and “I Wonder Who's Kissing Her Now” on the back.

Foot—How much did that field cost at Cornelius last Saturday?
Ball—Oh, we built it free of charge.

Old Yells With New Meanings
Cut it off!—When you see a fellow with long whiskers on the top of his head.
Pipe down!—When you ask Shorty Howell for a drag on his pipe.
Let's run this thing!—When a stray dog tries to sleep in your room.

Talking about movies, have you ever seen two flies kiss on the screen? No, but Mason Fields and Stout Montgomery have never had enough food to film.

Brown’s Mule and Cut Plug would be a fine pair to hitch a wagon to. It would take a lot of chewing tobacco.

That Elon game sort of had the whole student body up on the fence. Okey Allison says he lost a perfectly good pair of tonsils while yelling last Saturday. The finder will please return them to the owner or Okey says he will make him cough them up.

Prof. Foreman (in Soph Bible)—Now, Mr. Crane, who went down to Cornelius?
Bill (waking up)—The whole student body.

Fresh Bohannon narrowly escaped being run over while crossing the square in Cornelius. A miss is as good as a mile. That is why so many Wildcats ramble down to Cornelius on Sunday afternoons.

Men are just like fish. They would get in trouble if they kept their mouths shut.

“Buffalo” McKinnon is so lazy he sleeps in a chair three nights a week to keep from having to turn down his bed clothes.

Blanco White—I've got an idea!
Hiram Sharpe—You'd better keep it in your head to prevent a cranial vacuum.

Pat McNair—Simpson, my business!
AI—Have you any other?business

Do you drink? (indignantly)—That’s Mason Field (to White Studio photographer)—I don't want a very large picture. Photographer—All right, just be sure to keep your mouth closed.

Fresh Malloy—Red, where do you live? Red McComb—Hickory. Fresh Malloy—Sort of a Hickory nut, aren't you?

Do You Know
That old men give young men advice when they are no longer able to set them a bad example?

Flunker’s Daily Dozen
1. Wake up.
2. Yawn, stretch and yawn again.
3. Glance carelessly at the clock.
4. Turn over to keep sun out of eyes.
5. Go to sleep.
6. Wake up.
7. Yawn, stretch twice.
8. Yawn again.
9. Sigh and turn over.
10. Toss shoe at roommate.
11. Inquire the time.
12. Yawn and go to sleep again.

If you do this at 8:00 o'clock you'll feel fine at 11, and if you do them regularly every morning they will soon become a habit and no more thought need be given to them.

Freshman (to Dope Matheson)—Say, when are you going out for Freshman football practice?

Stout Montgomery (to Fresh sitting behind him at the movie)—Can you see, Fresh? Fresh (timidly)—Not a thing. Stout (tenderly)—Then keep your eyes on me and laugh when I do.

Somebody told us that Hurd looked in the mirror the other day without laughing. A splendid example of self-control we would say.

Watt-McCain has been favoring (?) us lately with his new song hit, entitled “The Hoof-Hearted Blues”—the song with a kick.

Reg Price says that Watts dormitory should be called Alabama since it is west of Georgia. According to that reasoning the Trough should be re-christened South Carolina.

Red McPherson, while hanging pictures in his room, bit a nail in two and drove his plug of tobacco in the wall. He didn’t discover his mistake until the wall spit in his face.

“I guess the multiplication table is right,” said Mason Field as he tried on some new shoes, “MaleGatint make 12 go into 8.”

A question we would like to have the debating societies consider is, Why do mountain climbers tie themselves into bands, making it necessary, when one of them tumbles over a thousand-foot ledge, for the entire party to follow suit. This is community spirit in the essence.

Joe certainly kicked up a lot of dust in Tennessee last summer, according to reports. He trailed a “U-push-em” plow over the tobacco fields of the Tennessee hill country, earnest work, we'd say!

An Awful Note
Okey sang an instrumental selection the other night.
Ted—Aw, get out. There is no such thing.
Okey—That is just it. It was instrumental in having me thrown out of the hall.

The Smell of New-Mown Hay
Homesick Freshmen are forbidden to walk out to Dr. Grey's farm home as it may make them more sick.

STUNT NIGHT TO REPLACE SENIOR SPEAKING WEEK
(Continued from page 1)
excel, and that is in the girls. It must not be thought that any such wholesale abolishing of the social pleasures of the old custom has been once contemplated. On the contrary, the exercises of the night bid fair to far exceed in interest the ill-attended speeches of other years, and for this reason it is up to every fellow to make a success of this new undertaking by being here at its inauguration.

COUGHS
Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

A universal custom that benefits everybody. Aids digestion, cleanses the teeth, soothes the throat.

KILLYNESS
Hieland Calf
HIELAND CALF—a new leather imported from Scotland—has a luster & sturdiness unmatched. Worked into the KILLYNESS it makes a shoe of marked individuality for the campus, class and street.

WM. B. DAVIDSON
121 Duane Street

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.