THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

CATALOGUE OF DAVIDSON GRADUATES TO BE REVISED

Doctor Lingle Edits Revision. All Faculties and Student Bodies in History to be Listed

In 1891 there was issued from the press a volume known as The Semi-Centennial Catalogue of Davidson College, edited by
such distinguished alumni as W. A. Withers, ’83, now vice-president of North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering; W.
W. Moore, '78, president of Union Theological Seminary; Henry Louis Smith, ’81, president of Washington and Lee University; J. H.
Hill, ’54, and W. S. Lacy, '59, both now deceased. This volume prepared by this distinguished committee of alumni is
the only volume of its kind ever published. It contains a list of all the trustees of Davidson College, beginning
in 1836. A brief sketch of the life of each man who has been on the faculty is shown. A
short sketch of all graduates is given, and those who matriculated but did not graduate are mentioned. Those having received
advanced and honorary degrees are mentioned. The summary gives the class membership and annual attendance, the ages at graduation, occupations
followed, geographical distribution according to states, etc. At the end, there is an alphabetical list of all students ever attending
Davidson College.

This catalogue is now being revised and brought up to date. Prof. T. W. Lingle is acting as editor and
is obtaining aid from various sources. This new catalogue will probably come from the press sometime in December. It is
to contain a very brief account of the 5,600 students who have studied at Davidson, of all the faculties since
1837, a list of all trustees, and various summaries and tabulations which will be of interest. This volume will necessarily
be comparatively larger than the former one, there being 5,600 students to record, whereas in the former one there were
only 1,804 students recorded.

R. O. T. C. ORGANIZATION FOR YEAR COMPLETED

There are 352 men in the R. O. T. C. this year. Two hundred and twenty Freshmen, 180 Sophomores, 19
Juniors, and five Seniors. For these men, Capt. Hearn has a good many places, which are not yet ready for
announcement. Among other things, however, it is intended to hold squad and platoon competitions this fall. In the past two
years, Companies B and C have won first place, while Company D has come second on two occasions. Company A
has excelled in close-order drill. Capt. Hearn would caution all men, new and old, in the matter of saluting the
flags at all times. In this connection, it is worthy of note that 15 percent of a man’s grade in
R. O. T. C. depends upon his conduct record.

The cadet officers of Battalion Headquarters are:
Major: Ford, G. M.
Capt. and Adjt.: Lake, J. A.
Sergt. Major: Mathews, O. P.
First Lieut. and Supply Officer: Kretschmar, W. R.
Color Sergt.: Thompson, H., and Mathews, C. L.

Band Cadet Officers:
Capt.: Earnest, J. R.
Drum-Major: White, R. G.

Company “A”
Capt.: Fenton, H. G.
1st Lieut.: Wildman, A. C.
2nd Lieut.: Hall, J. B.
Sergeants: Patterson, W. A., Alford, S. A., F. R. and Lawson, H. C.
Corporals: Hudson, W., Brown, S. F., Teague, W. M., Sullivan, W.

Company “B”
Capt.: Cromwell, W. H.
1st Lieut.: Budger, J. R.
2nd Lieut.: Boggs, R. E.
Sergeants: 1st: Alford, F. W., Supply: Furches, C. S., Anderson, J. W., and Baker, T. S.
Corporals: Anderson, F. N., Hollingsworth, A. H., Garrison, J. M., Buck, E. T., Houston, C. E., Parks, R. B., Deck,
L. L., O'Neil, E. R.

Company “C”
Capt.: Hendrix, J. F.
1st Lieut.: Maxwell, J. R.
2nd Lieut.: Thomasson, M. C.
Sergeants: 1st: Kimsey, R. T., Supply: Guyston, A. T., Earnhardt, J. J., Lovelace, E. L.
Corporals: Cox, L. P., Alexander, H. Y., Rayburn, Franklin, F. T., Williams, B. W., Crayton, B. T., Reid, J. E.

Company “D”
Capt.: Ramsey, W. A.
1st Lieut.: Howell, M. I.
2nd Lieut.: Gibbs, L. B.
Sergeants: 1st: Hines, L. B., Supply: Ratchford, B. U., Minter, J. A., Sappenfield, N. E.
Corporals: Bachman, A. N., Fitts, W. H., Cook, J. M., Robinson, A. S., Smith, C. W., Causey, P. F., Brenner,
O. L., Lindley, P. H.

ASSISTANTS CHOSEN TO AID J. I. SMITH

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Association, J. A. Lake, A. D. Malloy, and R. W. Oeland were elected
assistant basketball managers for the coming season. The following men were nominated as candidates by the Athletic Association: T. B.
Brown, J. R. Earnest, J. A. Lake, R. H. Littlejohn, A. D. Malloy, B. McCallum, C. M. S. Mellwaine, R.
W. Patton. At the preliminary election, Earnest, Littlejohn, B. McCallum, and Mellwaine were eliminated. At the final election between T.
B. Brown, J. A. Lake, A. D. Malloy, R. W. Oeland, and J. H. Patton, Oeland received the highest number
of votes, which numbered 45. Malloy came a close second with 43 votes, and Oeland received 36 votes. The remaining
two, Patton and Brown, received 29 and 22 votes respectively.

The duties of these men will be to assist the manager in his various duties such as attending to the
equipment of players, taking charge of the schedule of the Freshmen team, and selling and taking up tickets at the
basketball games.

EFFICIENT SYSTEM INSTALLED AT LIBRARY

This year an entirely new system of keeping records of books taken out from the library has been installed. Heretofore,
when a student obtained a book, he was given a page in a ledger in which the name of the
book and necessary data concerning it was written down. This system necessitated a great deal of work at the end
of the year on the part of the librarian, and it was very inefficient, there being no way to tell
how many books had been lost until the final checking-up at the end of the year.

However, the system inaugurated this year is going to liberate the librarian from a great deal of work and will
enable her to accurately check up each day on every book that is overdue. When a student obtains a book,
it takes a little more of his time, but it is believed that he will not mind this when he
considers how much he is aiding the library—sometimes himself, when he might forget to return a book and will find
a sum charged against him.

Each student fills out a card for each book taken out. On the card is his name, date, name of
the book, its author, and the number. In the back of the book he is taking out is a form
on which is stamped the date the book is to be returned, and this date is also recorded.| on his
card, which is then indexed on the date of expiration. At the end of this time a check-up is easily
obtained.

"REVISED HOUSE COMMITTEE
(Continued from page 1)

4th Floor—Houck, W. G.—401. Chairman of West—Brown, C. V. Georgia
1st Floor—Keels, A. C.—2.
2nd Floor—Phlegar, D. S.—16.
3rd Floor—Walker, J. R.—33.
Chairman of Georgia—Phlegar, D. S.

Watts
1st Floor—Brown, T. B.—104.
2nd Floor—Patterson, N. G.—205.
3rd Floor—Brown, E. D.—301.
4th Floor—Young, C. A.—403.
Chairman of Watts—Brown, E. D.

Rumple
East Side—Blue, R. E.—7.
West Side—Bradford, W. Z.—27.
Chairman of Rumple—Bradford, W. Z.

Louisiana
DeArmon, J. W.

North Barracks
Martin, A. M.—16.

South Barracks
McJunkin, J. C.—11.

FIRE ORGANIZATION IS BEING PERFECTED

At the request of the faculty, the students of the college have been organized into a fire battalion or department
under the leadership of the Fire Chief Marshall, Captain Weems, and his assistants, Lieutenant George, the Cadet Major of the
R. O. T. C., and Messrs. VanSant and Hillhouse. With the added equipment recently purchased by the college for fire-fighting,
the department will be able to render efficient service. It is organized for service on the campus and in the
town of Davidson.

The department consists of two main divisions. One division is composed of the four companies of the R. O. T.
C., and the other of all students not in the R. O. T. C. The R. O. T. C. division
is organized as follows: Company A, the hose company; Company B, bucket company; Company C, salvage company; and Company D,
guard company. On the sounding of the fire signal, Company A will fall in facing the armory on the East,
likewise Company B on the West, Company C on the North, and Company D on the South. The students not
in the R. O. T. C. are known as Company K and will, in case of fire, form in front
of Rumple. The president of the Senior class, R. R. Jones, will act as captain of Company K.

The old boiler house next to the commissary is being converted into a firehouse where all the equipment such as
hose, buckets, chemicals, and ladders will be kept. Mr. VanSant will have charge of the equipment. There will be a
fire drill once a month. This will make the companies familiar with their respective duties and make them more efficient
fire fighters. This program of fire protection embracing the entire campus is another step toward the greater Davidson.

MANY NEW BOOKS ADDED TO LIBRARY COLLECTION

Among the new books recently catalogued in the library are three fine western stories: When Kansas was Young, by T.
A. McNeal; Daniel Boone, Wilderness Scout, by Stewart Edward White; and When the West was Young, by Frederick R. Bechdolt.
There is also a collection of Carolina Darky Stories in dialect by Ambrose E. Gonzales entitled, The Black Border: Gullah
Stories of the Carolina Coast; and a discussion of the racial question entitled, The Negro in Chicago: A Study of
Race Relations and a Race Riot; Social Ethics, by James Melville Coleman, and English Words and Their Background, by George
H. McKnight are two other books well worth reading.

STUDIES SUNDAY SCHOOL CLASS FOR COLLEGE MEN

A review of the last quarter, consisting of a study of the lives of 14 Bible characters who were closely
associated with Christ, was the subject of the Sunday School lesson for last Sunday. Professor Fleagle, teaching for Professor Foreman,
gave an impressive lecture on these characters before 20 Davidson students. The teacher took up in order the characters treated
during the quarter, pointing out the chief characteristics of each individual and calling the attention of the class to the
lessons taught by the life of each. Besides hearing Professor Fleagle, the members of the class were given an opportunity
to observe the conduct of a Sunday School class of 168 pupils. This class, composed entirely of college students, meets
Sunday afternoon at three-thirty in the local Presbyterian Church. They always receive a cordial welcome, and also the uplift that
comes from attendance at Sunday School.

RAIN OF TERROR IN EAST AND WEST DORMS

For the past several days a peculiar and unique condition has existed in the new East and West dormitories. They
have at intervals gushed forth streams of water on the unwary visitor. But these two unkind buildings even emit fountains
and showers of “aqua” not only on visitors but on occupants of the buildings themselves. Indeed, one must keep a
watchful eye toward the upper windows and must have a good pair of pedal extremities.

The Guard Dragon of this organization is one of the tribe of McKinnon, otherwise known as “Buffalo.” He directs his
cohorts on every unwary traveler, so that no one is able to escape his baptism of water. Usually, he contents
himself with directing his cohorts; but when an especially choice victim approaches, he takes active part to the temporary detriment
of the victim.

In West Dorm, another devotee of this peculiar art holds hourly sacrifice to the same god. He hails from the
tribe of McCombs, but his name is “Red,” because of his flaming thatch. This young man often vies with the
said “Buffalo” to see which can carry off prime honors in the ever-drenching contest. The battle shifts as the moments
pass; one time sturdy “Red” will claim more victims, while in the next instant “Avoirdupois” Buffalo will have more scalps
dangling from his belt.

Even the once timid and retreating Freshmen have taken up this sport of the ages. At first, horrified with the
awful consequences to the victim, they gradually became accustomed to the grueling spectacle; then becoming braver, they even tried their
skill at this most engrossing game. Dazed by the power they suddenly found they possessed, they have used this power
to the detriment of even the members of the upper classes.

JOSEPH HENRY 1797-1878

Born at Albany, N. Y., where he became a teacher of mathematics and physics in Albany Academy. Leading American physicist
of his time. First director of the Smithsonian Institution. The work that was begun by pioneers like Joseph Henry is
being carried on by the scientists in the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company. They are constantly searching for
fundamental principles in order that electricity may be of greater service to mankind.

When Henry rang the bell

If any bell was ever heard around the world, Joseph Henry rang it in his famous experiment at the Albany
Academy. The amazing development of the electrical industry traces back to this schoolmaster’s coil of insulated wire and his electro-magnet
that lifted a ton of iron. Four years later, when Morse used Henry’s electro-magnet to invent the telegraph, Henry congratulated
him warmly and unselfishly. The principle of Henry’s coil of wire is utilized by the General Electric Company in motors
and generators that light cities, drive railroad trains, do away with household drudgery, and perform the work of millions of
men.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
