4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

The DAVIDSONIAN
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

OPEN FORUM

THE EDITOR’S FAREWELL

It is with mingled feelings of joy and sadness that we of the old staff bid farewell to our jobs on the old Davidsonian. The time has come for other men to take our places and we must give way to them. To all the varied and sundry contributors of literary gems to the columns of the Open Forum we wish to extend our most heartfelt thanks. You have striven nobly to put your thoughts into words and your words into deeds. If only the ones to whom your scathing satires were addressed had read them, what a different place Davidson would have been today. But you have all hurled arrows into the air and they will all fall to earth some day and blossom forth as the flowers of truth.

With these last few sad thoughts in our minds we must surrender our columns to other hands and bid farewell to all.

—R. F. DAVIDSON

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
R. F. DAVIDSON........Editor-in-Chief
W. I. HESTON....Second Managing Editor
R. R. JONES........Assignment Editor
H. MAUZE........Athletic Editor
J. M. MORRIS........Literary Editor
F. WILDMAN........Society Editor
J. M. COX........Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD........Manager
F. GALLOWAY.......Assistant Manager
C. F. ARRINGTON, J. C. MINTER, J. A. APPLEBY, M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, B. V. D. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. HAY........Business Manager
J. H. BOSCH........Advertising Manager
G. E. W. G.........Advertising Copy
JAMES McCURCHEN........Office Assistant
WATT McCAIN........Circulation Manager
T. McCAIN........Asst. Circulation Manager

REPORTERS CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
McILWAINE, C. M.
ERICK, R. L.
WALTHALL, J. B.
ALLISON, O. J.
MOFFETT, A.
WHARTON, P. C.
WHITE, H. M.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
FOMER, L. W.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

GO OUT FOR BASEBALL

The baseball season has begun. The school year of 1922-23 is drawing to a close. Already we have completed our football and basketball seasons. These two sports loom only in the realm of memory. Perhaps you were not satisfied with the results of Davidson's athletics so far this year. Probably there are none that feel entirely well pleased with their outcome. To these and to all of us it would be well to say, “Did you do your part to make things go? Were you a booster or a knocker and a pessimist on the sidelines?”

Junior Speaking is here in full blast and we hope that all are enjoying the occasion to the fullest. To the Juniors we are indebted for some of the best and most originally gotten up entertainments that have ever been put on here during such a function. We take off our hats to them this time. The next big event on our social calendar will be Commencement! While we are having such good Speaking, let’s all plan to be here Commencement.

At last the new addition to the Church is completed, and it looks extremely attractive. All are now within better hearing distance and all have comfortable seats. The Sunday morning services should be among the most pleasant and profitable of our college exercises.

BASEBALL

The baseball team is just beginning its 1923 season. Coach Currie’s charges have been working hard and faithfully to turn out a team that will add to our laurels on the diamond, and they have a man’s-size job before them. A number of the college teams in the state promise to be very efficient machines this spring, but we all want to see our nine take a leading place among them when the season is over. A number of our men are new and untried and they may take a few games to hit their stride. In any case, these players aren’t going to perform at their top speed unless they can feel that the student body is behind them whatever happens. Let's all get out and do our best to give them this feeling. It will bring success quicker than anything else.

—CHESTNUT.

COMMON COURTESY

“Friends, Romans, Countrymen, lend me your ears.” Spare but a few moments of your precious time and give earnest heed to these plaintive notes.

As you all well know we have but poor accommodations for our weekly picture shows. We have to be crowded together in a room not intended to hold such numbers. There has of late been an increase in the thoughtlessness of some of the student body which has spread to the younger town boys as well. The one thing the amount of smoking is still annoying to the ladies that are present at each show. None of you would think of smoking in a public theatre in Charlotte or anywhere else in a picture show. We have been reminded and requested so many times here to refrain from smoking during the shows that it is hardly worth while to mention it again other than to say that it is only a matter of common courtesy due to the ladies of the faculty and the town. Another objectionable feature that has recently been increasing at our shows is the number of indecent remarks at times in the audience.

THE HAZING ISSUE

For several months the question of abolishing hazing has been before the student body, and the Court of Control has been on trial as an institution to take the place of all hazing at Davidson. In our opinion there is nothing that could be better for Davidson than that when this question comes before the student body for final decision that the change that has been made for a time be put in as a permanent thing. Quite a great amount of discussion on this subject has taken place, and yet too much cannot be said in favor of a move that means so much to the future of the college. Particularly those of us who are leaving Davidson this year, and can look at the matter from an impersonal viewpoint, feel that no greater mistake could be made than that by not backing this Court of Control, we should allow it to fail of passing. Therefore in this last issue of the paper under the present staff, we wish to beg of all the students that they consider this matter carefully, in an impersonal way, and as men desiring to do whatever is for the best interests of Davidson, within the college and before the world.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

After the clouds of bewilderment that were occasioned by the storm of enthusiastic eloquence and forensic fury engendered in Shearer Hall last Friday and Saturday cleared away, it was learned that the following Juniors had won “Reps”: for the Phi Society, W. M. Currie, R. B. Peters and R. D. Hall, alternate; for the Eu Society, E. Flinn, A. S. Potts with P. B. Carwile as alternate.

Saturday afternoon Davidson wound up her very successful season of Basket Ball by defeating Clemson Tigers 37 to 22.| The 37 points made by Davidson, Hengeveldt the last time he appeared he said, “If someone doesn’t throw me a rope pretty soon I'll drop one of these anvils!”—Spectator. | Saturday night the Orchestra and Glee Club gave an excellent concert before an unusually large and appreciative audience. The eighteen selections were all well given and brought forth much applause. The first selection was “The Star Spangled Banner” by the entire company. At the concert the “D”s were awarded to those men who had won Basket Ball letters this spring. Those receiving letters were: Hengeveldt, D and three stars; King, D and two stars, and D’s with no stars to McAllister, McCaskill, and Angle. After the concert, a delightful reception was given by the faculty to the Juniors and their guests, the Seniors and the Orchestra and Glee Club. Last week in the State Normal in Greensboro Davidson won a higher honor when her debating team met the LaFayette team and came off victorious. It was a clean victory from a worthy opponent and one of which Davidson is justly proud. The subject of the debate was, Resolved, That the successful prosecution of the war requires that all citizens of Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, and Turkey now residing in the United States be interned until peace is secured. Davidson upheld the affirmative. The cook hasn't killed it yet, but she has got in a couple of nasty blows.—Yale Record.

QUITE ACUTE
Meenister: I hear they’ve gone dry in the village where your brother lives.
Sandy: Dry! Man, they’ve gone parched. I’ve just had a letter from Tom, and the postage stamp was stuck on wi’ a pin—Reveillo.

Gather your kisses while you may,
Time brings only sorrow;
For the flappers who flap so free today,
Are the chaperones of tomorrow.
—Pitt Panther.

“While you were abroad I suppose you saw great expanses of barren waste.”
“Man, I was in Europe, not Hawaii”—Pelican.

Don’t eat too many Easter eggs!
(Guest, at country club): Where is that chicken I ordered an hour ago?
Waitress: It'll be here soon, sir.

The Daylight Saving Law went into effect last Sunday morning at 2 o’clock. As a result, drill in the afternoon will be changed from 4:10 to 5:10 and supper changed from 6:30 to 7 o'clock.

Random Thoughts of a Vagrant Mind or Lines from a Chapel Notebook
Well, the faculty cut chapel again today. It must be great to be a man, all grown up and everything, and not have to go to chapel. About this time the custom of sounding a bugle call at 6 A.M. (Daylight saving time) was instituted to summon the men to early morning drill. How it was received by the Student Body may best be judged from the spirit of the following article which appeared in the Forum column. There has come a request that something be said about that infernal machine that goes off in the morning about six o'clock. The lights go off at 11:15, which necessitates that we go to bed with the chickens, but there is no reason for getting up with them. If everyone took Drill this “Can't get ’em up etc.” would be different. But there are quite a number of men who do not drill and cannot sleep after the bell rings. Before this unfortunate time, there was only one rising bell for chapel—there was no bugle. This is no military school. If a student can get up for Chapel by a bell why can’t he get up for drill by a bell? This thing of bringing a tin horn around and raising the dead is unnecessary. The bell is sufficient and the Hendrixion postlude exceeds the point of satiety. We are not Edisons and don’t want to be, for we enjoy our extra hour in the arms of Morpheus.
A Disciple of Morpheus.

And two weeks later—
The Davidsonian, Beda Becker seems to have won a dollar from John Bebout on the time the prayer took. Funny there was no announcement about whom the rifle team shot today.—Tarquin.

She took my hand in sheltered nooks,
She took my candy and my books,
She took that lustrous wrap of fur,
She took those gloves I bought for her.
She took my words of love and care,
She took my flowers, rich and rare,
She took my ring with tender smile,
She took my time for quite a while.
She took my kisses, maid so shy—
(She took, I must confess, my eye)
She took whatever I would buy,
And then she took another guy.
—Berry News.

Grab ’Em Young
If you love me, tay tow,
If you don’t love me, tay tow;
If you love me, tweeze my hand;
But don’t keep me sitting on these cold steps all night long. I'll freeze to death.

Editor of the Forum.
Dear Sir:
In a late copy of your newspaper, I note an article raving upon the horrors of an early morning bugle. Nowadays almost any girl will give you an extra hour “in the arms of Morpheus”. In reply, I wish to say that while I have a bad reputation for being a sleepy-head, I have never objected to other people getting up and working. Especially do I want it understood that I am in no way opposed to Military Training at Davidson nor to any methods that may be used to get men up to an early morning drill. I think it is impugning on my loyalty and Patriotism to hint that I am. Hence I wish to deny that the said gentleman is any disciple of mine. I have never instructed any of my disciples to make any such protest as he has done. Trusting that this explanation will remove any unjust calumny that may have attached itself to my name by the action of this ill-advised gentleman in claiming to be my disciple, I am,
Very truly yours,

A Ford is like a school room
For if you look you'll find
It has a stubborn crank in front
And a bunch of nuts behind.

This issue is the last that the present staff of the Davidsonian will be called upon to publish. After this week, the paper will be in the hands of the new men who have been chosen to succeed us in office. The work that we have done during the past year has not, we hope, been without result in helping to give to the Davidson students and alumni a college paper in which they will find much interesting and perhaps instructive reading matter, and of which they may be justly proud when it is compared with other college publications of the public. While there was a large field to be covered, we have tried to perform our tasks as best we could. For aid and support that our friends have given the paper and given us, we gratefully thank them, and hope to see the incoming staff receive all this with additions. To our successors, then, we turn over the management of the paper with the earnest hope that they may take up the work where we have left off, and build a bigger and better paper upon the foundations already laid. We feel sure that they can well profit by our mistakes and failures, and while there lies ahead of them a year of work, will make it a year of profitable service for the improvement and further development of the Davidsonian.

We will enjoy the shows just as much and others will enjoy them much more if we only observe the commonest rules of decency and politeness. Just one other thing. If you see any other boy, whether he is a college boy or not, violating any of these requests of the Y. M. C. A., just ask him to cut it out. All of us should take pride in this.
—A Davidsonian.

“Now I sit me down to sleep;
I hope my chum my notes will keep.
If I should snore before I wake
Do poke me in the ribs for pity’s sake.”