THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

Commencement Orator, '01; Vice-President Class, ’01-'02; Editor Magazine ’00-'02; Editor Quips and Cranks (3 years).

For thy aid in this prophetic song, I would sing of the Class of 1902; The gospel HODGES will preach
to all who will hear, Nor cease from his labors till grim death draw near.

WILLIAMS BROWN McQUEEN—1898-1899. He is at present Clerk of Court in Raeford, N. C. Mr. McConnell entered Davidson from McConnellsville,
S. C., with the class of 1902. After graduation, he returned to Davidson and was awarded his Master of Arts
Degree in 1906. He was also later given a degree of M.D. from the University of Maryland. During the late
European War, he served as a Lieutenant-Colonel in the U.S.A. Medical Corps, a similar position which he had held on
the Mexican Border a few years before. At present, he is college physician at Davidson College as well as Professor
of Biology there. He is recognized as an Ear, Eye, Nose, and Throat Specialist in that part of the state.

RUFUS REID MORRISON A.B.; Phi; Beta Theta Pi; First Supervisor, Second Critic Society; Commencement Marshal; Class Track; Class Baseball; Class
Football; Manager and Captain Class Baseball; Varsity Baseball; Varsity Track; Executive Committee Athletic Association (4 years); Class Historian, '01-'02. See
special article for Captain Morrison's achievements since leaving college.

DONALD WILLIAM RICHARDSON “Donnie” A.B.; Commencement President Society; Secretary, Reviewer, Treasurer of Society; Debater’s Medal; Editor Magazine (2 years); Editor
Quips and Cranks (2 years); Editor-in-Chief Quips and Cranks, ‘02; Class Monitor (3 years); Class Historian, '99-'00; Class President, '00-'01;
Vice-President Student Body; Vice-President Y.M.C.A. Donald W. Richardson graduated from Davidson in 1902 with the highest honors of his class.
At Johns Hopkins, he was awarded the Sandscript Fellowship. He later went to Princeton and received a fellowship which entitled
him to a year’s study abroad. He also received his M.A. degree from Princeton. He went out as a Missionary
to China and was connected with the University of Nanking. He is a noted orator and translator. Davidson College conferred
on him the D.D. degree. He is now in China at Nanking, after having charge of the boys’ school at
Ching Kiang.

JOHN SHUFORD ROWE “John” A.B.; Phi; Supervisor, Secretary, President of Society; Commencement Orator; Captain Class Football; Varsity Football; Class Track;
Class President, '99-'00; President Student Body, '01-'02; President Athletic Association; Class Monitor; Editor Quips and Cranks; Business Manager Quips and
Cranks. Mr. Rowe entered Davidson from Conover, N.C. Upon completion of his work here, he accepted a position as traveling
salesman. He is now connected with a business concern in Raleigh, N.C., and holds a responsible position.

ROY ROSEMAN “Kid” B.S.; Phi; Second Supervisor and Second Vice-President Class. It has been impossible to locate any definite information
in regard to Mr. Roseman. We learn that he is at present engaged in farming and the owner of a
large ranch at Torrington, Wyoming.

ARTHUR EARNEST SPENCER “Florida” A.B.; Glee Club; Mandolin and Guitar Club; Leader Glee Club, '01-'02; Class Baseball; Track; Class Treasurer,
'00-'01; Editor Quips and Cranks, '01-'02. Mr. Spencer, after taking his A.B. degree at Davidson, entered Union Seminary, and from
there went into the active field of the ministry. He is at present located in Gainesville, Fla., where he is
doing home mission work for Suwanee Presbytery.

WALTER SCOTT WILHELM “Willie” A.B.; Class Secretary, '01-'02. Mr. Wilhelm also chose the ministry, graduating from Union Theological Seminary. Since
entering the ministry, Mr. Wilhelm has been pastor of Shearer Church, near Davidson, Bethesda, Troutman, Barium Springs, Roxboro, and South
Lowell Churches. His present address is Salisbury, N.C., R.D. No. 1.

* * *

We quote the Class Prophecy below in order to see how true the predictions were:

CLASS PROPHECY, 1902

O Muse, to lift aside the future’s veil, Many have sought thy prophetic aid; But to all has never yet
been granted The gift for which so many have panted, Secrets which in the future lie deeply hidden, Themselves reveal
when only by thee they’re bidden. Since I would then the future read, I, oh Muse, with thee do plead.

There will be two good men of great renown, Both lowly parsons of a country town; Rich they will be
in holy thought and work, Nor Christian duty, however humble, ever will they shirk, Just and upright will they live
before the people's eyes; Full loath will they be to plead for their slow-coming tithe, The wayward they will labor
to keep within the fold, And the weak to their own bosoms will they gently hold, Well will they an
example give, By their own lives, of how men should live. Two better parsons, I trow, Will never be, Famed
for their goodness and piety. CORR and RICHARDSON are these worthy champions of the cross Who will gather up the
gold and fling away the dross.

Next I sing of one who from China hails; But ’tis right to say he never wears the Chinee-tails. He
as a lawyer will settle down In some far-away Chinese town; There he will much talking and more loafing do,
But never will he wear the pigtail too. DUBOSE is his name; he will be very learned in the law,
And from so much pleading will be known as “Ching Lang Jaw.” But, as all benefactors, his reward will be
slender. An expounder of the law, discreet and wise, Who will have no witness swearing lies; Of fees and cases
will he have many a one, So great a collector will there nowhere be none, If by any means he
is able to collect. He will settle down in his county-seat, But remain as always, a tobacco beat; On the
sea of politics, he will launch his little boat, Which will not sail for want of the breezy vote.

An athlete there will be; an agile man; Many opponents will fall before his valiant hand. Football battles has he
fought by the score, And of tennis tournaments far many more, And when at last stern death shall draw the
line, And St. Peter shall shut forever the golden gate, FITZPATRICK will arrive just twenty minutes late.

There will be a preacher, a choleric man, Whose beard will be shorn as close as...ever it can. Full long
are his legs, and very lean, just like a staff; there’s no calf to be seen. In all the country
no one will be found whose speech with fair language will so much abound. Conform to all the Chinese customs
and Critic Society; Class Baseball; Class Foot- All will be fee simple to GOURDIN in At present occupied with agriculture
on R. F. D. No. 5, Charlotte, N. C. Dealer in country produce and poultry. This worthy man his wits
so well will use that there will be none from whom he will not get his dues. He will make
his English sweet upon his tongue, while aeaing the mighty deeds which he The Class of 1902 was known as
the little fever class, for it was one of the smallest classes matriculated at Davidson and it entered college in
1898, the year of the typhoid fever epidemic in the college and the town of Davidson. Due to this epidemic
and because the new system of artesian wells had been completed, no effort was made to canvass for students. Only
28 Freshmen entered college and of this number 14 graduated. Upward in his profession he will continue to go, and
leave all competitors far below. At duty’s call he will ever do his best, and sink at last to a
peaceful rest.

THE LITTLE FEVER CLASS OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Five, out of this 14, entered the ministry, and three entered the foreign field. Donald Richardson, the valedictorian, is one
of the most brilliant men ever graduated from Davidson. His scholastic record at Davidson has never been equalled, and his
brilliant work as a student at Hopkins and Princeton, and as a translator in China, show that he has maintained
his college record. Palmer DuBose has also made a prominent place in the China Mission fields, following in the footsteps
of his illustrious father, and Robert Coit is equally prominent in the Korean field. S. E. Hodges, W. S. Wilhelm
and A. E. Spencer are prominent in active pastorates in the Southern Church. P. G. Gourdin is now a capitalist
at Kingstree, S. C.; W. R. Cleze is an attorney at Carthage, N. C.; Reid Morrison was Captain of a
Battery of Field Artillery in France and fought his battery through the St. Mihiel and Argonne battles and is now
at his ancestral home near Mooresville. R. M. Fitzpatrick was Captain of a Machine Gun Company in the A. E.
F., was severely wounded, was cited for gallantry. He is still in the army on R. O. T. C. duty
at the University of Texas. J. S. Rowe is a travelling salesman with Raleigh as headquarters. Roy Roseman has been
in the gold fields of the Yukon and his present address is unknown. J. W. MacConnell is on the faculty
of Davidson College. T. P. Bagley died two years after his graduation, just when he was making rapid success in
business at Wilmington. In looking over some of the old football scores of the period of this class it is
interesting to notice that Davidson won from State, 17-0; from Georgia Tech, 38-6; University of Ga. 16-6; University of S.
C., 5-0; and lost to University of N. C., 6-0, and to Clemson, 64-0. The latter score is interesting for
it marks the beginning of fake plays and double and triple passes, and was the first coaching that Heisman did
at Clemson. The Clemson team had been coached in long lateral passes and double and triple passes and fakes until
their opponents couldn’t follow the ball. Really, Heisman is the father of modern football or the open game. His wonderful
success at Clemson led to Georgia Tech paying him a fancy price and he built up a great team there.
Of course when other teams learned the same style of play the odds were no longer so much in favor
of Heisman’s teams. Davidson has hosted Clemson since in a number of games and will do so this week no
doubt.

No disputed point will he ever yield, but will his opponent always drive from the field. Through his long and
eventful course bluff will be his greatest force. To get married will be the ambition of his life, but all
his days he is destined to spend without a wife.

WILHELM and SPENCER, two champions for the right, will ever be found in the midst of the fight. To their
high calling they will ever be true, and much good for suffering humanity will always do. Both great admirers of
the culinary art; this phase of life will ever be dear to their heart. Over their flocks they will ceaseless
vigil keep, until at last they are called to a peaceful sleep.

We are indebted to Dr. T. W. Lingle, who is editing the Alumni Catalogue, for the information given below, concerning
members of the Class of 1902 who did not graduate.—The Editor.

JOHN LEON ADAMS—Attended Davidson 1898-1900. At present he is in business at Gastonia, N. C.
LEAMON ANDERSON BENNETT—1898-1901. Latest information gives his address as Highland, Fla.
CLARENCE BOALS—1899-1900. Lawyer, located in Memphis, Tenn.
FREDERICK BROWN—1898-1899. In business at Red Springs, N.C.
JOHN DICKSON BROWN—1898-1901. In business at Salisbury, N. C.
SAMUEL GASTON BURGIN—1898-1899. In business, Lincolnton, N. C.
JESSE STANLEY CLAYPOOLE—1898-1899. Business, New Bern, N. C.
WILLIAM BUTLER COCHRAN—1898-1899. In banking business, Mt. Gilead, N. C.
JOSEPH NEWLAND DOGGETT—1898-1899. In business, Bristol, Tenn.
JOHN ELMO GARNER—1898-1899. Practicing physician at Wauchula, Fla.
WALTER HALL GOODMAN—1899-1900. Minister, Clarkton, N. C.
JOSEPH EGGLESTON HANNAH—1898-1900. Pastor, Presbyterian Church, Newnan, Ga.
JOHN DAVIDSON McLEAN—1898-1900. At present he is engaged in agriculture, and may be reached at R. F. D. No. 1,
Belmont, N. C.
HENRY EMBRY McMURRAY—1898-1902. His present address is Kathleen, Fla., where he is a physician.
EDMUND McNEILL—1898-1899. No information as to his location and occupation is available.
LEIGHTON WILSON McPHERSON—1898-1901. He is now located at Columbus, Ga., where he is engaged in the wholesale grocery business.

The part of the Wrigley Building erected two years ago has filled such a want that the north section, nearly
double the floor area of the south section, is being added. This north section, nearly completed, occupies the entire block,
immediately across North Water Street, fronting on Michigan Avenue and reaching to the height of the main part of the
first structure, with a connecting bridge. The space in the new section is already nearly all taken by high-class firms
in advance of the completion of the building.

Here’s Proof That Advertising Pays
Famous Wrigley Building in Chicago Being Doubled in Size

Here is a concrete (as well as a steel and glass) proof of the saying that “advertising pays.” In these
magnificent buildings Mr. Wrigley has erected an impressive testimonial to this great truth. They loom large and beautiful. They typify
the achievements of the man who built them. They stand as a monitor over the activity of the Nation’s second
city—inspiring—dominating—massive—bearing unanswerable testimony to the POWER OF ADVERTISING.
