THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

Diamond Dope

Though the Wildcats lost a couple at the beginning of the season, there is plenty of promise that with a little more experience we will have a corking good nine in the field. The hitting seems to be picking up right along, and according to all the sport maniacs on the campus, that was to be the weak point with the Wildcats this year. Last year’s squad hit around .300, but with Crawford, Brice, Vance, and Boushee hammering the old pill the way they have in the first couple of games, .300 isn’t so far out of sight.

Captain Pat

Last year we needed pitchers, and before the season was over, three dependable pitchers were forthcoming. This year we have the making of an all-around team, but they need a bunch of pep behind them. Stick with them, boys, and let ‘em know that we are on the sidelines pulling for them.

Brice

It looks like we always play our ball games on the wrong days. We practice when it is clear, and play a game every cold and nasty day that comes along. Somebody please speak to the weather man.

Richards

Anybody that was in Gastonia knows that the Wildcats are a scrapping bunch this year. With eight runs against them in the second inning, most teams would have quit trying, but not so with Captain Pat’s arsenic aggregation. They were right there with the fight and played all around the Tarheels the rest of the game.

Sion Alford

Speaking of Gastonia, Manager Elliot says he got dizzy watching the men run bases in the second inning. Any team will go up in the air every now and then though.

THE Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”
BASEBALL SHOES
GLOVES
MITTS
BATS
We sell the Spalding, Harry C. Lee, Wright & Ditson RACKETS
Also the Dayton Steel Racket
We Restring Rackets
Our Davidson Agency is THE COMMISSARY
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
ALL. FAUL, Mgr.
Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Covington

The way the Freshmen wrecked the Juniors in that football game during Junior Speaking was terrible. Crown Prince Young and Jerry Fenton were the most in need of the Red Cross. In “ye good ole days” before the death of D. C. Hazing, the Freshmen wouldn't have dared to frock the upperclassmen. Remember last December—after that 14-14 Fresh-Soph game. There was a whole lot better sportsmanship this year, and better Fresh teams all around.

Vance

The Wildcat track artists nosed one over on South Carolina in their first meet, and got a measure of revenge for the defeat on Sprunt Field last year; but from the records of their next two opponents, it looks like they will have their work cut out for them. N. C. State beat Trinity, 93-33, kind of stepping on them, we would say; and Clemson romped away with the University of Georgia, 76-36. Two years ago, Clemson beat Davidson in track, about 80-30. We wonder if they can do it again this year, and on Sprunt Field?

Frank Alford

N. C. State is the only undefeated Carolina team, and has a string of victories over Navy, Maryland, Guilford, Wake Forest, and Elon. The Wildcat-State game shows us about where we stand. Let’s go get Wake Forest, Saturday!

Wells

Game with Carolina called—by all. Game with Trinity called off. Game with Furman called on account of rain. Game with State called a scrap. Game with Wake Forest called at 3:30 Saturday.

Juniors Tie Seniors But Bow to Freshmen

Junior-Senior

On Friday afternoon preceding Junior Speaking, the Junior and Senior football teams fought to a 6-6 tie. The Juniors, doped to win easily, were let down with a crash when Buchanan picked up a fumble and ran 68 yards for a touchdown. The Maroon and Gold, realizing what they were up against, managed to shove over a touchdown in the third quarter, tying the score 6-6.

Young kicked off to the ten-yard line to Buchanan, who returned 12. Currie then punted 30 yards out of bounds. On the second play, Beaver fumbled the ball, and Buchanan made his sensational run of 68 yards for a touchdown. Young kicked off to Roberts, who returned ten. The Seniors once more punted on the first play, and the Juniors, starting on their thirty-yard line, marched steadily up the field to the ten-yard line where they lost the ball on a fumble. Playing a defensive game, Currie punted 50 yards to Smith, who was downed in his tracks. The Juniors started another march up the field, which carried them deep into the Seniors' territory, only to have time for the first half called on them when they were inside the Seniors’ twenty-five-yard line.

In the second half, the Seniors kicked off to the Juniors, who once more came up the field in steady drives with Price R. and Fenton carrying the ball. Several passes netted them a great deal of yardage, but another fumble gave the Seniors the ball. Moore fumbled, and the Juniors recovered. Price R. on the third play slipped off tackle and, dodging two men, ran 29 yards for his team’s only touchdown. In the last quarter, both teams fought hard, but neither was able to give the ball the necessary punch to untie the score. The Juniors carried the ball to the Senior 9-yard line, but Mauze intercepted a pass on his own 7-yard line, and the game ended.

Lineup and Summary—

SENIORS (6) JUNIORS (6)
Greys C Ford
Davis R. G. McLean
Currie R. T. Clarence Young
Weeks R. E. White
Hodgin L. G. Brown
Morrow L. T. Smith
Roberts L. E. Price P.
Beaver R. H. B. Fenton

Substitutions—Seniors: Mauze for Sydenstricker, Ogden for Buchanan. Juniors: Price R. for Price P.; Chipman for McLean. Touchdowns—Buchanan and Price R.

Junior-Fresh Game

The Saturday morning of Junior Speaking was the time of the last game of the class series, in which the Freshmen defeated the Juniors 18-0 in a game marred by many injuries and fumbles.

The Fresh received the kickoff and advanced to the Junior 15-yard line, where the Juniors held and the ball went over. Lindamood blocked an attempted punt, the ball rolled to the 3-yard line where Baker fell on it. The next play, Williams carried the ball over. The Fresh received the kickoff again and advanced the ball down the field but lost it on a fumble. Young, captain of the Junior team, was forced from the game with a broken collar bone.

During the second quarter, the Fresh marched down the field with Jones and McMillian carrying the ball. Standing on the 30-yard line, Williams tossed a 25-yard pass to McMillian, who crossed the line for the second Fresh touchdown.

At the beginning of the second half, the Fresh started their march again with Jones and McMillian starring. Williams shot a pass to Miller, which gained 30 yards and put the ball in scoring distance. The Juniors held for three downs, but a short pass to Baker netted the Fresh their last touchdown, making the score 18-0 in the Fresh’s favor.

The last quarter was marked by the determined fight.of the badly crippled Junior team. Fenton, on a 25-yard run around the Freshman right end, hurt his knee and was forced from the game. In spite of the fight put up by the Juniors, the ball was shoved far into their territory, and only the end of the game saved them from another score. Lineup unavailable. Referee, McMaster '23; Umpire, Faison, '24; Head Linesman, McComb '25.

CAPTAIN GALLOWAY PILOTS RED AND BLACK TO VICTORY
(Continued from Page 1)

three second places copped by him in the pole vault, broad jump, and high hurdles. Streibeck is good for a number of points against most any old team. In the weight events, Lindamood, notwithstanding the fact that his arm was in a bad condition on account of a boil on the wrist, placed first in the discus throw and second in the shot-put, helping considerably in Davidson’s victory. The mile run furnished one of the most exciting events of the meet. Spec McConnell of Davidson led the race until the last few yards when Parsons of Carolina nosed him out in the sprint to the tape, winning by a few inches.

In the half-mile run, Galloway, Davidson captain, pulled up from third place to first in the last quarter lap. DeLorme, of South Carolina, one-time Davidsonian, finished a close second. The race between these two was well staged as they ran about even until the last hundred yards, when Galloway forged ahead and broke the tape only a few yards ahead.

South Carolina’s best performers were Wallace, Poole, Parsons, and Prevost. Wallace won first place in both dashes and Poole pulled down a first in the pole vault, broad jump, and two-twenty low hurdles. Poole stands as high man for the meet in individual scoring with 15 points to his credit. Parsons ran a pretty race in the mile run and deserves special mention for his fight to finish first against McConnell of Davidson, who set a fast pace from the start. Prevost, in the two-mile run, was in good form and takes the cake for his fast finish of this long race. Dick contributed six points to Davidson’s 57 2-3, placing second in the two-twenty low hurdles and the four-forty yard run. Davis, placing third in the four-forty, would have done better had he started his sprinting sooner. He finished a close third, going strong. Everything went off in good style for the first meet of the season, and with a week before the next meet, in which to correct mistakes, Davidson should be in good shape for N. C. State next Saturday. The event and results are as follows:

100-yard dash, Wallace, Carolina, first; Hendrix, Davidson, second; time 11 seconds flat.
Shot put, Gracey, Davidson, first; Lindamood, Davidson, second; distance 36 feet 2 inches.
Eight hundred eighty yard run, Galloway, Davidson, first; DeLorme, Carolina, second; time 2 minutes, 6 seconds.
High jump, Gaston and Wilson, Carolina, and Calhoun, Davidson, tied for first; height 5 ft. 10 in.
Two hundred and twenty yard dash, Wallace, Carolina, first; Hendrix, Davidson, second; time 23 2-5 seconds.
Discus throw, Lindamood, Davidson, first; Brice, Carolina, second; distance 107 feet, 7 inches.
Pole vault, Poole, Carolina, first; Streibeck, Davidson, second; height, 10 feet, 6 inches.
Two hundred and twenty yard low hurdles, Poole, Carolina, first; Dick, Davidson, second; time 27 seconds.
Javelin throw, McComb, Davidson, first; Gracey, Davidson, second; distance, 143 feet.
One hundred and twenty yard high hurdles, Gracey, Davidson, first; Streibeck, Davidson, second; time 16 4-5 seconds.
Two mile run, Prevost, Carolina, first; Cobb, Carolina, second; time, 10 minutes, 35 seconds.
Four hundred forty yard run, Hanahan, Carolina, first; Dick, Davidson, second; time 55 2-5 seconds.
Broad jump, Poole, Carolina, first; Streibeck, Davidson, second; distance 19 feet 9 inches.
Mile run, Parsons, Carolina, first; McConnell, Davidson, second; time 4 minutes, 51 seconds.

Having barely nosed out the University of South Carolina in a closely contested meet at Columbia last Thursday, Davidson’s track team, under Coach Gray’s able instruction, is hard at work on Sprunt Field, smoothing over the rough spots and preparing themselves for the meet with N. C. State this Saturday. Davidson’s meet with State has been an annual attraction for the past several seasons, with first one and then the other holding precedence on the track. Dope as to how the two teams stack up this season puts them about even, with Davidson possibly holding a slight advantage. Last year State managed to out-point Davidson considerably and the year before rain ruined Davidson's good chance to out-class State. The sting of last year’s defeat, together with encouragement in the form of victory in the first meet of the season, puts the Davidson cinder packers in the right attitude to win and, at least, State seems to be in for a close call next Saturday. State, so far this year, has had only one meet, but in that they trounced Trinity to the tune of 93 to 33, with good results in most events. If comparative dope can be considered worthwhile, however, Davidson is showing best form for early season in that records made in the opening meet of the season, which compare favorably with State’s accomplishments so far, were made in a drizzling rain. State appears to be weakest in the field events, while Davidson has shown best results in this department. It looks as though the outcome of the meet depends on one or two second places. Davidson’s track team is already off to a good start on the 1923 season. Hopes are high that Coach Gray's cohorts will bring home the bacon next Saturday. After the meet with State, there remains a dual meet with Clemson, a pending triangular meet with Elon and Guilford, and the State meet, which closes the season. Davidson's knights of the B. V. D.’s, with the student body back of them, look good for a gala year.

D. WALTHALL CHOSEN TO HEAD REPORTERS’ CLUB

Walthall, Wharton, and Patton will direct the activities of the Reporter’s Club for the next year. These men were elected last Friday night. As president, Walthall will be largely responsible for the success or failure of the club as an organization. With Benton, Wharton, and Jim Patton to help him as vice-president and secretary-treasurer, his task will not be so difficult. All of these men have shown their interest in the club and in Davidsonian work and the prospects seem bright for a good year. This week new members of the club are to be elected and in a short time the new officers will be installed and the new men initiated.

Daily advice on the market: Now is the time to lay in a good supply of thermometers, they are bound to go up soon.

ATHLETES

Make good as salesmen because—
They have natural training.
They know how to think and act quickly.
They understand what it is to “fight through.”
LIBERAL CONTRACTS