THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

Town News

Mrs. Lingle returned from St. Louis, Mo., last Tuesday, where she was called by the illness and death of her
mother.

Mr. and Mrs. E. B. Andrews, of Salisbury, were guests at the home of Dr. Lingle for a short time
last week. They came to attend the Phi Beta Kappa initiation ceremony.

Dr. D. M. Douglas, president of P. C., who came for the Phi Beta Kappa initiation, was a guest of
his brother, Prof. J. L. Douglas.

Dr. Metcalf, of the University of Virginia, who delivered the Phi Beta Kappa address last Friday, was a guest of
Dr. and Mrs. Shewmake.

The Book-Lovers’ Club will meet next Friday afternoon with Mrs. C. M. Richards.

Mr. and Mrs. S. D. Gordon were guests at the home of Mrs. Olin White during Mr. Gordon’s series of
lectures here. They left last Friday for Fayetteville, N. C.

Dr. W. J. Martin returned Saturday from a business trip to Raleigh and Richmond.

The Thelemite Club met last Saturday evening at the home of Dr. J. W. MacConnell. An address by Prof. Fleagle
on “The Average American” was an enjoyable feature of the evening.

Mrs. F. F. Ellinwood arrived from New York Tuesday. Her granddaughter, Miss Jeanne Calhoun, of Cornwell, Conn., came with her.

Mrs. Doyle and daughter, Miss Anita Doyle, returned to their home in Baltimore, after a very pleasant visit at Dr.
and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell’s last week.

Mrs. W. W. Wood and her sister, Miss Jane Price, and Mrs. Paisley, spent the weekend in Statesville, visiting their
relatives.

Miss Lera Hobbs, of Mitchell College, spent the weekend at home.

Friends of Miss Martha Thompson will be glad to know that she has recovered from her illness, which has confined
her to her home for several weeks.

The Sutzus Club met with Mrs. L. M. Black last Friday night. Refreshments were served. The evening was enjoyed by
all present.

Several of the town people had the pleasure of listening to the Davidson Glee Club Concert, broadcasted from Atlanta at
about 11 o’clock Saturday.

Mr. and Mrs. Allison, of Concord, spent last Friday with their nieces, Misses Mary and Lizzie Young.

Mr. and Mrs. John Ramsay, of Salisbury, spent Sunday in Davidson.

Mrs. Ida B. Fleming, of Concord, N. C., spent last weekend with Mrs. C. H. Hamilton.

Mrs. F. Dendy entertained the Young Matrons’ Club last Friday afternoon. The entertainment of the evening was rook. A salad
course was served.

Miss Jane Price, of Louisburg, W. Va., who was a guest of Mrs. W. W. Wood for the last few
weeks, will return to her home the last of this week.

Mrs. Hengeveld will leave Saturday morning with her little daughter, Virginia, for her home in Waycross, Ga.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell left for Savannah, Ga., on a hunting trip last week. He will return Thursday.

Miss Charlotte Crawford spent the weekend with her parents.

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Mebane motored to Virginia for the Christmas holidays.

The Girl Scouts gave the play “Taming of Horrors” at Huntersville last week.

S. D. GORDON ENDS SERIES OF INTERESTING SPEECHES

(Continued from page 1)

When people read the Bible, light does not put spots on them but it shows them what they are. That
is why some people merely like to be a “church member.” Above everything, be careful of the daily life, for
that is the greatest preaching—the unconscious life being the most powerful.

The topic of the closing talk was “Earthquakes.” He began by saying that God's ideals have never been worked out,
and in the end he showed that the earthquakes are a warning to this effect. Scientists say that earthquakes are
due to a force in the earth’s formation, and a bishop in London comes forward with the statement that they
come as a judgment for sin. Some people have asked whether anything is said in the Bible regarding earthquakes. Mr.
Gordon answered affirmatively, showing there are records in the Bible of previous earthquakes, that a series of prophecies made have
never taken place, and that Jesus, in speaking to His disciples, spoke of certain things to happen before a great
crisis, and the earthquake was one of them.

Everything comes from either God or the devil, said the speaker. Both have controlling purposes; with God it is love,
with the devil, hate and selfishness. The recent earthquake in Japan culminated in the sending of eight billion dollars to
the stricken Japanese, an example of love and fellowship. Earthquakes are both a warning and a plea, a warning to
those people who merely keep a watch as time passes, and a plea to God's own people to be true
and live for Him. In closing, Mr. Gordon said, “Earthquakes are a warning that a crisis is yet to come,
when this dispensation shall come to an end, and Christ shall take affairs in His hands.”

DEBATERS READY

FRESH PROVIDE AMUSEMENT

(Continued from page 1)

“Nat,” better known as “Commandante Dick,” Faison’s chair was also removed, but this was remedied after much persuasion. The freshmen
were given a choice of eating under the table or on “infinity.” The majority chose the former; but even these
had to come up for air occasionally.

The main part of the program of Sophomore Day was carried out in the afternoon. Promptly at 3:00 o'clock, the
entire freshman class assembled before their respective dormitories, and were marched by their Sophomore leader to the portion of the
campus back of Phi Hall. A large “26” had been laid out on the ground. Deck took charge of the
class and arranged the freshmen so as to form a human “26.” Yells were given for the Sophomore class, and
at the first stroke of the college bell, the freshmen knelt down, placed their caps in front of them, and
at each stroke of the bell, they “bowed to the dust,” and kissed the green “F” on their caps—twenty-six times.
The noise made by the osculations of two hundred and fifty freshmen resembled a herd of cattle drawing their feet
out of sticky mud. “Shorty” Love evidently feared contamination, for after each kiss he carefully brushed his “F” off with
a toothbrush.

When this act of submission was finished, the freshmen from Georgia and Watts participated in a human wheelbarrow race. Contrary
to most rules of etiquette, the green lads were dressed in “full evening dress” or rather pajamas. This race was
followed by a paint fight between the Barracks and Rumple. Green paint served only to further prove the “greenness” of
all freshmen. Each team consisted of so many horses, and a rider for each. The Rumpleites were victorious and electedto
fight it out among themselves. This fight lasted about ten minutes, after which the shirt fight between East and West
dormitory freshmen took place. The rules were that a man was out of the fight as soon as his shirt
was torn completely off. Less than five minutes was sufficient for this to be accomplished. Never have a bunch of
shirts been torn up so fast, not even at the laundry. The afternoon's program ended with a parade through town.
At the movies, the freshmen completed Sophomore Day by razzing "How Green I Am," and by giving numerous yells. Such
yelling had never been heard since the days of Sam Story. "Fresh" Love and Wall gave a barber shop farce,
followed by an ill-named comedy by Hodgkin and Craig, and two negro songs by the Kiser brothers.

Mr. F. W. Hengeveld, registrar of the college, is planning to take three or four of the student body to
Georgia in his Willis-Knight. While no absolutely definite plans have been made, Mr. Hengeveld is counting on taking with him
K. S. McAlpin, A. M. Hillhouse, and A. M. Hurd. L. L. Elkins will also join the party if the
Glee Club trip to Florida should fall through. At present, the party hopes to leave as soon as the Christmas
holidays start, and pass through Columbia and Augusta on its way to Waycross. Definite plans concerning the time of departure
and route to take will be made soon. Mr. Hengeveld made the trip from Waycross here this fall in about
a day and a half. He reports that the roads were in excellent condition on his former trip, and hopes
they will be as fine this trip.

For High-Class PRINTING of every description + "Jam-Up" SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub.
Co. Quality Printers

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office

Mrs. Clyde Champe and her little daughter, of Atlanta, are visiting Mrs. Champe’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. S. J. Christenbury.

Sophomore Day was pronounced a success and will be held each year, sometime in the fall. The intention was to
have it earlier this year, but weather conditions prevented it. This day will in no way interfere with the annual
freshmen cap burning day, but will only be used as an alternative for hazing.

FOR RENT — Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders give prompt attention.

Always Something Good to Eat NEW YORK CAFE DAVIDSON

Southern Awning & Decorating Co. 9 E. Fifth St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mrs. W. H. Wooten spent last week with friends in Greensboro, N. C.

He has accepted a call to the Claiborne Avenue Presbyterian Church. Rev. W. B. Knox has moved from North Fork,
W. Va., to Statesville, N. C.

The Alumni Editor wishes to pay a word of tribute and praise to the Atlanta Alumni Association for the splendid
reception and luncheon extended to the Glee Club at the Ansley Hotel on Saturday, December 8th. The Alumni of Davidson
are loyal everywhere to Davidson men, but may we say here that the Atlanta Alumni are super-loyal. You are to
be congratulated for your fine spirit and your love for your Alma Mater. Every member of the Glee Club, and
the entire student body express to you their appreciation for your kindness.

Alumni Editor.

$250 In Prizes

This is the new Hinged Cap on Williams’ Shaving Cream. Williams’ is the only shaving cream having this convenience feature.
We want you to tell us how the cap appeals to you. So we make this offer:

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams’ Hinged Cap, we offer the
following prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th
prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy
of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924.
Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of
paper only, putting name, address, college, and class at the top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The
J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

SODA CIGARS PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.
