Four In A Row
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Let’s Sweep The State FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 8, 1923 No. 15

DAVIDSON MINSTRELS SLATED FOR TRIP THROUGH CAROLINAS
Sultan of Sarawak to Present High Order of Minstrelsy
JOY NOW REIGNS SUPREME
Converse and Greenville Woman’s College on Docket
By H. M. WHITE

Owing to the inclemency of the Davidson weather, the Sultan of Sarawak has decided to take his harem and retinue
South for the winter. Not content with their second tremendous success in Shearer Hall, the Wildcat Minstrels will start on
a grand tour of conquest southward, leaving Davidson Wednesday the 14th. The Dramatic Club on this trip will visit Converse
College on the 15th, Gastonia on the 16th, and Charlotte on the 17th.

Though it may seem an impossibility, yet it is a fact that the Dramatic Club now has a better performance
than its original stunning extravaganza. The show, which has already surpassed all expectations and has been considered by many of
sane judgment as the acme of perfection, has been materially improved upon. Various new songs have been added to the
list, and Okey Allison, the Sultan, has a solo which is entirely novel. As fetching as the first show was,
with its store of merriment and fun, for fear of being “egged out,” the jesters have supplied themselves with quite
a new line of jokes. The greatest improvement, however, of which the troupe can boast, is the enlistment of the
Wildcat Five, the orchestra which jazzes so praiseworthily on all occasions. To the personnel of the Royal Musicians who played
in the first show, has been added R. Q. M. Seago. Johnnie Adams’ name has also been deleted from the
role because of basketball, but his place will be ably filled by Watt McCain.

Prof. E. J. Erwin, who has borne the brunt of the labor in working up the minstrel, will go in
the capacity of navigator of the expedition, and it is hoped by all those in his classes that he will
thoroughly enjoy his vacation. Considerable new scenery has been manufactured, which together with the old scenery, and the S. S.
Sazaphonia’s lifeboat, will be carried as hand baggage by the Sultan and his crew when they embark on their red
Pullman. The inhabitants of Spartanburg, S. C., will (Continued on Page 5)

COLORED SONGBIRDS
The Junior Class has made arrangements to have a troupe of ten or twelve men from Biddle University, or Johnson
C. Smith University, as it is now called, here Friday night, February 9th. Beginning at 7:30 o'clock these men will
give a varied concert in Shearer Hall, lasting an hour and a half. Those who were fortunate enough to hear
the quintet at its recent appearance before the “Y” will remember the close harmony rendered and will no doubt gladly
welcome this opportunity of again hearing them. In addition to the many famous negro ballads, the troupe will bring several
musical instruments with them which assures the audience of a well-rounded program of entertainment. An admission fee of 25 cents
will be charged and the proceeds will go towards the payment of certain items included in the entertainment plan for
Junior Week.

VESPER SERVICES CONDUCTED BY INSPIRATIONAL SPEAKERS
Meetings During Term Exams Well Planned and Well Received—Good Speakers
By A. Y. BOWIE

Shearer Hall has been the scene of three inspiring and uplifting Y. M. C. A. services since the last issue
of THE DAVIDSONIAN. The first of these meetings, held on January 21, was addressed by Rev. Tom Gillespie of Gastonia.
Doctor Gillespie presented in his own forceful manner, the story of “A Modern Prodigal.” Taking his text from the Bible
account of the prodigal son, he drew a striking parallelism in the life of that prodigal with a prodigal of
today. He told of leaving his home in Kentucky, where he had been reared by Christian parents, to go out
into life for himself. Forgetting his childhood habits and customs and heedless of his mother’s prayers, he got on the
wrong road and was going the way to destruction. While in such a condition, he was approached by a young
ministerial student, who invited him to a neighborhood prayer meeting. At first, he refused to go, but finally consented, and
there found again the God he had forgotten, and turned back to Him. The speaker ended his talk with an
earnest plea for those who had wandered away to turn back and begin over the Christian life.

Mr. J. B. Ivey, a prominent business man and layman of Charlotte, was the speaker at the service held January
28. Mr. Ivey spoke of the qualities a man must have in order to be a true success in life.
He spoke of the late John Wanamaker, the prince of business men, whose great success was due, not only to
his high moral standards of character, but above all, to his religion. He impressed upon his hearers the importance of
Christianity in business if a man would be a true success.

Rev. A. W. Crawford, chairman of Synod’s committee on home missions, was the inspiring speaker for the meeting held last
Sunday, February 4. Vic Brown led the singing of the evening, while Wallis Purdy and R. G. White furnished the
instrumental music. Layton Fraser presided and introduced the speaker. (Continued on Page 5)

STANDARDIZATION OF CLASS RING PASSES STUDENT BODY
A standard college ring was selected by the Junior Class last Saturday morning and it has been adopted by the
Sophomore Class and the student body. In the future, all class rings will be of the same design except for
the changes in the numerals. The adoption of this ring marks the completion of the work of the Junior Class
to fix a standard college ring. The college authorities have co-operated with the student committee in an effort to make
this ring permanent.

The ring itself is well worthy of the selection. It will be made out of 10 karat gold and the
setting will be a large ruby. On one side of the stone will be the college seal together with a
Wildcat climbing upon it. The date of the founding of the college, 1837, will also be placed there. On the
other side of the ruby, the class numerals will be placed. Corresponding to the seal on the other side, there
will be a circle containing the degree course, A.B. or B.S. The Wildcat feature will also be placed on this
side of the ring. The design selected was submitted by Chas. H. Elliott & Co., the largest firm in the
country dealing in college jewelry. They will send the stones, already cut, to Davidson to permit individual selection. The color
of the gold, also, will be according to personal preference. The price of the ring will be about $15.50 and
the delivery will be sometime around the first of May.

OFF WITH A FLYING START
COACH MONK YOUNGER, A Scrapping Wildcat
FORMER DAVIDSON ATHLETE WILL GUIDE RED AND BLACK
Coach Grey Has Worthy Successor in V. P. I. Man
By CHALMERS McILWAINE

Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager, has officially announced that Wm.Lee Younger, now head coach of basketball and baseball and
assistant coach of football at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, has accepted the position of head coach at Davidson for the
coming year. Coach Younger reports September 1 to take up the work of whipping a formidable eleven into shape. Since
the fall of 1914, the policy of having alumni coaches has been followed at Davidson and has proved highly satisfactory.
In commenting on the selection of Younger as coach, Doctor Douglas said: “Younger, a former Davidson man and a star
athlete, is acquainted with conditions here and the ideals for which the college stands. He has had a remarkably successful
coaching career at Hampden-Sydney and V. P. I., and the members of the Athletic Council feel that he will continue
his success at Davidson and develop winning teams for his Alma Mater.” Coach Monk Younger is the third protégé of
Bill Fetzer’s to coach the Red and Black football teams. When Fetzer left Davidson, “Pete” Crayton, former Davidson end, succeeded
him and directed Davidson teams during 1918-1919. “Wooly” Grey, all-Southern guard in 1917, then took the helm and for three
years has piloted the Red and Black. With the passing of Coach Grey, Younger, one of the greatest football ends
and all-round athletes ever at Davidson, (Continued on Page 2)

PHI BETA KAPPA WILL TAKE FIVE PROMINENT STUDENTS
Installation Date Definitely Set and Plans Completed
MANY ALUMNI MEMBERS
President Chase of U. N. C. Will Officiate at Service
By AL LAKE

Again the installation of the Davidson Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa has been postponed, but a definite date has been
set for the ceremony. On account of a meeting of the Virginia Association of Colleges at the time set, it
was found to be impossible to secure the speakers desired, and Thursday, March 1, is the time at which Davidson
will receive her charter. President H. W. Chase, of the University of North Carolina, will officially present the charter. Oscar
M. Voorhees, secretary of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, is also expected to be present. Invitations will be
sent to all chapters in nearby states, inviting them to send representatives. The charter members of the N. C. Gamma
will be Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College; Prof. E. F. Shewmake, Prof. W. H. Porter, and Prof.
W. W. Woods. In the fraternity, the members are divided into three classes: alumni, honorary, and members in course, the
latter being students. The alumni of the Davidson chapter were chosen from the honor men of their classes and on
the basis of their success since leaving college. Following is a list of those who will be initiated as alumni:
Hon. F. B. McDowell............... '69
Dr. C. R. Harding.................. '80
Prof. A. C. McIntosh............... '81
Dr. J. P. Monroe................... '82
Dr. E. W. Smith.................... '82
Mr. William Mack.................. '83
Prof. W. R. Gray................... '84
Prof. J. A. McLauchlin............. '85
Judge W. H. Baker................. '86
Prof. J. A. Tillinghast............. '87
Prof. J. B. Wharey................. '88
Dr. W. P. McIlwaine............... '89
Dr. C. M. Richards................. '92
Dr. T. W. Lingle................... '93
Dr. J. L. Douglas.................. '94
Dr. M. E. Sentelle................. '95
(Continued on page 4)

LOCAL MEN INSTALL CHAPTER AT JOHNS HOPKINS

On the night of Monday, January 29, 1923, the Gamma Alpha Chapter of the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity was
installed at Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. The initiation and installation, followed by a delightful banquet, took place at the
Southern Hotel. Installing officers included L. P. Good, O. J. Thies, and M. R. Doubles, assisted by J. P. Price
and O. H. Browne, of the N. C. State Chapter. The charter members who were initiated and to whom the
rites of the order were disclosed included: C. E. Greider, B.S. '20; Washburn, M.S. ’21, University of Iowa; Sherlock Swann,
B.S. ’22, Princeton; A. W. Dearing, B.S. ’21, V. M. I.; A. F. Barrier, B.S. ’21, Roanoke; G. D. Palmer,
B.S.,’21, Clemson; and also O. H. Browne, B.S. ’21, N. C. State, by transfer from the Alpha Beta Chapter. The
fraternity was founded at Davidson College on January 29, 1920, by L. P. Good, (Continued on Page 3)

FIRST GAME—CHARLOTTE

The Davidson Wildcats gained a flying start on the 1923 season when they turned in a 32-29 victory in the
first game with the Charlotte “Y.” Charlotte had played several games and were expected to be more seasoned than the
Wildcats, but despite that fact, the Red and Black five took the first decision that they have been able to
gain from the “Y” squad in the Queen City for several years. Crawford, last year’s leader, was out of the
game and Warhoss Mauze had an injured hand, but it was clear that the Wildcats had a decided edge, crippled
as they were. The battle was hotly contested, but at times was more scrap than basketball. Charlotte opened up with
a rush and had a lead of several baskets before the Red and Black machine could get started. As soon
as Red Laird got his eye on the basket, however, the Wildcats took the lead that they managed to maintain
throughout. The first half ended 15-11. In the second stanza, both teams played better ball and the points were piled
up in quick succession. Laird was still on the rampage and ran up his total to seven field goals, while
Warhoss caged a couple of pretty ones that put the game on ice. The cogs on the Wildcat cage machine
were just getting oiled up when the whistle put an end to the contest. Every man of the Fighting Devils
played a great game. Red Laird and Mauze couldn't be stopped. They accounted for most of the Davidsonians' baskets. For
Charlotte, Dozier and Smith were high point men with eight counters apiece. Line-up:
DAVIDSON (32) CHARLOTTE (29)
Beall (0).......... R. F.........Moore (4)
Laird (14)......... L. F.........Smith (9)
Mauze (12)........ C......Cuthbertson (0)
Davis (2).......... R. G........Dozier (8)
Boggs (2)......... L. G...Cunningham (6)
Subs—(Davidson) Mallory (4) for Beall, Sappenfield for Laird, McConnell (2) for Davis, DeArmond for Boggs. Charlotte—Marvel for Moore, Yates (2)
for Cuthbertson, Vaughn for Dozier. Referee: Faul. Scorer: Mauze.

SECOND GAME—CHARLOTTE

In the initial game of the season on their home court, the Davidson Wildcats defeated (Continued on Page 6)

ASSISTANT MANAGERS

At a recent meeting of the student body, assistant managers were elected for the basketball season of 1923. Bradford and
J. I. Smith were elected on the second ballot. They will serve during the current season, after which one of
them will be elected to be the manager for the next season. Bradford has already served as assistant football manager
during the past season, so he is well qualified for the position. While Smith has never had any experience along
this line, he is a man well fitted for the duties assigned to him. These men will assume their new
duties at once as helpers to J. M. Adams, the manager. These men will manage the scrub trips and help
the manager with the games in the Hill. The other men nominated for the office included Keels, C. V. Brown,
Heston, Allison, and McCrary.

MAKE THIS THE BEST TERM
