FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. OCTOBER 12, 1923

Faculty of Davidson Cited for Orthodoxy
Methodist Evangelist Mentions Beliefs of Davidson Teachers

AN EXCEPTIONAL EXAMPLE
Walt Holcombe Scores Teachings in Modern Colleges

Preaching to an audience that filled the large Wesley Memorial Tabernacle in Atlanta to overflowing several weeks ago, Walt Holcombe, widely known Methodist evangelist, used the Davidson faculty as an exceptional example of consecrated college instructors in these days of arrogant and impious denials of the divinity of Christ and of the immortality of the soul.

Evangelist Holcombe had taken his text from the second chapter of Revelation, wherein the evils and dangers of false teachings are emphasized. From that, he launched into his excoriation of “those who claim to be teachers, preachers, and apostles in our country today.” He referred several times to an advertisement which had previously appeared in an Atlanta paper over the nature of Davidson College, captioned, “The Faith of Our Faculty.” The advertisement concerned a questionnaire circulated among several thousand teachers of science in American colleges. Two hundred and eighty-nine answers were received, of which number 53.7 percent declared their unbelief in God, while 44.7 percent said they disbelieved in the theory of the immortality of the soul.

“I was happy to note that no such deplorable situation prevails among the faculty members of Davidson College, according to this advertisement; and regret that more of our American colleges are unable to boast the same type of instructors,” said Mr. Holcombe. “If the agnostics, the liberalists, and the modernists have captured as many colleges as the showing indicates, give them seven years to work in and they will capture the entire student body of our educational institutions.

“Then these American boys and girls will come out into public life, contaminated by these devilish doctrines, and those who go into the pulpits of the land will begin to preach the same arrogant and impious denials of the divinity of Christ and the immortality of the soul—taking away humanity’s only hope and refuge in the midst of change and death. Give them about four and one-half years to work in and they will capture the entire student body of our educational institutions.”

(Continued on page 7)

WILDCATS FIGHT V. P. I. TO STANDSTILL, LOSING ON AN INTERCEPTED PASS, 7-0
Gobblers Unable To Break Through Wildcat Defense; Younger’s Machine Outplays Tech Both On Offense and Defense; Work of Red and Black Ends Features; Moss Races Eighty Yards To Lone Counter of Game.

Outweighed seventeen pounds to the man, the battling Wildcats more than kept the hard-hitting Gobblers in their own backyard last Saturday when an intercepted forward pass cost them seven points in the second quarter. The Davidson-V.P.I. game, the most awe-inspiring game on the Davidson schedule, kept thousands of breathless spectators in suspense during four quarters of the most Herculean football ever witnessed in Blacksburg. Time and again the Gobblers launched their terrible offensives, only to fall before the invincible Davidson line.

W. S. (GIG) SHEPHERD
For the fourth year, Gig is running wild in the Wildcat backfield and makes all comers hustle for half-back honors.

Executive Committee Reports Total On Chambers Campaign Nears Quota
Old Pillars to be Preserved as Memorial to Former Chambers

The Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College met at Davidson, Tuesday, October 2nd, and convened in session from 9 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Six of the eight members of the board were present at the meeting. The first action of the committee was to hear the reports of Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, and Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer. The most interesting item in the report of Mr. Jackson was the announcement that $560,000 of the present Six Hundred Thousand Dollar Campaign had already been received in pledges. The campaign officials have their main headquarters in Atlanta at the present time, and from that point will cover Georgia.

Court of Control Puts New Regulations on ’27
Yellow Cap Makes Violators of Court Rules Conspicuous

The Court of Control has been working steadily with the Freshmen. Many new regulations have been adopted, one of the foremost being the adoption of the yellow cap to be worn by those Freshmen who are under penalty. This penalty has been added in order to make the other court regulations more effective. Since school opened this year, 12 Freshmen have been called before the court, only three of this number being given penalties, which included the distinguishing caps.

Dr. Martin, in his report, reviewed the improvements that are manifest upon the campus and presented statistics relative to the present enrollment. As a whole, the Freshmen have taken the actions of the court in the right spirit, realizing that it is working for their own interest as well as for the (Continued on page 6)

For almost two quarters the ball was buffeted back and forth across the fifty-yard line, till Fortune decreed that Moss, V.P.I.'s most favored backfield comet, should snatch from the atmosphere one of Hendrix's passes, on his own second chalk line, and run eighty yards for the solitary score of the day. Numerous times the Davidson team had opportunities to plunge and tear at the opposing line, but until the middle of the second period neither goal was threatened. From Tech's 45-yard line, the Wildcats suddenly rampaged to within scoring distance, when disaster came. They reached the Gobbler’s 20-yard line by three line smashes and a ten-yard pass, when they attempted another pass and gave V.P.I. the game. Davidson kicked off to her opponents, who speedily discovered that their day's luck was over. The ball swung from side to side of the field and was put to the punt, only to repeat the same tactics with slight variation, till the half was up. In the second half, the Wildcats broke again and threatened to balance the count, but the Gobblers became stubborn and forced them to kick. Sutton, who received the punt, was downed in his tracks on his own 20-yard line.The last quarter was punctuated every few plays by substitutions in the V. P. I. eleven, but every device proved of no avail against the Wildcat line. Shortly before the final whistle, both teams resorted to overhead tactics, but each team forced the other to punt near its own goal. Captain Elias Faison was right there every time when a "gobbler" tried to strut across his path. V. P. I., finding that there was not a yard to be gained over the right end, tried Nappy’s end but came to grief there also. The ends certainly did their share, but the chief honors for the wonderful defense put up against V. P. I. are due to the line and backfield. The whole team played as one well-organized unit, and except for having one pass intercepted, outplayed V. P. I. in every way. There was not a player who hit the Tech line but played stellar football. Only one first down was made over the Davidson line. Every Wildcat was in his place and fought to the last second. Sam Summers at right tackle held down his side of the line with every ounce of his 200 pounds. He played real football and played the whole game except for the last few minutes when he was taken out on account of a sprained ankle. “Sook” Boggs, recently transferred from the backfield to the line, discovered that he was designed to fill the gap between tackle and center. When it came to breaking through the center of the line or pulling out and breaking up an end run, Mason Field wasn’t anywhere else. W. T. Long and “Small” Hodgin worked together like an old team. They must have played together since kindergarten days. Time and time again, they sought to circle the ends but they always found the inevitable line a stumbling block. 

C. M. (NAPPY) DAVIS
Nappy guards one of the Presbyterian flanks with the tenacity of a Wildcat, as the V. P. I. Gobblers can attest.

Davidson Debaters To Meet Three Colleges
Debating Council Arranges Two Meets and Plans for Third

W. AND L. AND TRINITY
Previous Wildcat Teams Hold Brilliant Record

After many years of setting a brilliant record, Davidson is now preparing for what promises to be one of the most successful years in debating that she has ever experienced. With veterans of inter-collegiate debates that have turned to college, the Debating Council is preparing a schedule of inter-collegiate debates that promises to offer more interesting debates than ever before. Washington and Lee and Trinity have been secured as opponents, meeting Washington and Lee about the first or second week of December and Trinity after Christmas. The council is now trying to arrange a meet with a third college for a spring date. Probably Mercer will be secured for this date.

Further plans of the Debating Council are to put a Freshman team in the field for one other inter-collegiate meet with some college. This is a new phase of debater's life at Davidson and should prove beneficial to the college in bringing out and developing new material for later years. With the full team that defeated Trinity last year, the alternate of the Washington and Lee team, and many men who were runners-up back in school, Davidson has an abundant source from which to draw her material. With such men as Hillhouse, Elkins, Cox, Wharton, Walthall, Hudgins, Haden, Hollingsworth, and others, surely Davidson will continue her bright record that has been graced with more victories than it has been darkened with defeats.

Davidson has been represented in debating over an extensive area, meeting many of the country’s best teams and emerging victorious in about two-thirds of the meets. Among the teams Davidson has met and defeated in the forensic art are found LaFayette, Washington and Lee, Randolph-Macon, Trinity, and Wake Forest. In winning over the Wake Forest team, the Davidson debaters won a handsome loving cup offered by the Winston-Salem Board of Trade.

Class Exhibitions Special Feature Of Varied Stunt Night Festivities
Seniors Plan Bi-Weekly One-Act Play, Acrobatic Work, and Musical Numbers Listed Throughout Year

Davidson's new Stunt Night will be inaugurated on Saturday, October 13th, at 7:30 p.m., in Shearer Hall. This comes in the social event season replacing the time-honored "Senior Week" which had of late, however, fallen into disrepute. The idea of Stunt Night is somewhat novel and borders on the dramatic, the class of productions in which Davidson students have shown much interest and ability in recent years. Prof. Erwin is having a large part in the arrangements for this event and much credit is due to him for his help in planning with and directing the student committee in charge of the program. Each of the four classes will put on an exhibition and keen competition is expected in the efforts to present the most unique affair. Various individuals will be pitted against each other and, at the present writing, so many have shown an interest that the event promises to be a great success.

The class of ’24, guided by the capable hand of R. R. Jones, has set foot upon the threshold of a bright and prosperous year. The class is composed of 71 men, only ten from the previous year having dropped out. Since this is the fourth year that these men have come in contact with each other, the class works together better and expects to put all that they have into making this year a year to be remembered and a class that will be remembered at Davidson College. A meeting is held every Wednesday night, where everything is discussed which will better the class and college. The class has a social meeting only once every two weeks. It is planned to have a bi-weekly one-act play, acrobatic work, and musical numbers listed throughout the year.