THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1923

FIRE-PROOF BARRACKS

Davidson has ceased the old, vulgar method of building destruction by means of fire and has resorted to the new
scalding and resin treatment plan. This new idea was tried out on South Dormitory last Friday and proved very successful.

MY MOTHER’S WORDS

Do you know that your soul is of my soul such a part
That you seem to be fibre and core of my heart?
None other can pain me as you, Son, can;
None other can please me or praise me as you.

PASTOR MAKES STRONG DEFENSE FOR MIRACLES

Doctor Richards chose as his text last Sunday morning the 22nd verse of the 2nd chapter of Acts, “Ye men
of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and
signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know.” Dr. Richards stated that
miracles were much used. “Christ, the Saviour, and miracles, stand together all through the Bible narrative. There are different classes
of people who have different views of miracles. Some say there are no miracles because there is no personal God
to perform them. But the man who does not believe in miracles must certainly believe in great wonders, and many
of those wonders are greater than those recorded in the pages of the Bible.”

“The beginning of our religion is in a miracle and its progress is through a series of miracles. Take away
miracles and you have destroyed Christianity. There are three kinds of miracles, those of power, those of knowledge, and those
of grace.”

DAVIDSON OFFICIALS ATTEND PRESBYTERY

During the past week Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. C. M. Richards, and President Martin attended the meeting of Concord
presbytery, held in the First Presbyterian Church of Lenoir, N. C. It is of interest to note that Rev. A.
A. McLean, of the class of ’05, a trustee of the College, is pastor of this church. The presbytery convened
Friday and continued through Saturday. On Friday morning Doctor Martin made a very interesting talk on “Plans for Raising Money
Necessary for Home Mission Enterprises in the Presbytery.” Besides this, he gave several informal talks telling of the activities of
the College and the many improvements planned for the near future. Among the Davidson Alumni present were W. W. Moore
'22, better known as “Coach,” of Union Theological Seminary, who was taken under the care of Presbytery as a candidate
for the ministry. Rev. J. C. Story, class of ’85, from Marion, N. C., father of Paul Story of the
Junior class, was present also.

DAVIDSONIANS ATTEND CONCORD CONVENTION

The Annual convention of the Southern District of the North Carolina Christian Endeavor Union was held in Concord, Saturday and
Sunday, April 14 and 15. The entire conference was a great success, according to officers and prominent delegates present. Rev.
J. G. Garth, of Charlotte, delivered the principal address of the Saturday evening session, and a delightful banquet was enjoyed
by the more than one hundred visiting delegates. Rev. Mr. Daniels, Secretary of Home Missions, delivered the Sunday morning sermon,
using for his subject, “Loyalty.” During the afternoon service, brief talks and discussions were led by the delegates. The closing
service Sunday night also had as the chief speaker Mr. Daniels, who spoke on “A Successful Life.”

Six members of the Christian Endeavor Training Class attended the Sunday session of the conference. During the afternoon session, T.
A. Guiton reported on his work as Quiet Hour Superintendent of the District, and Lee McLean gave a report of
the work of the Training Class. At the night session, Guiton was re-elected to his position as Quiet Hour Superintendent.
Those attending the convention from Davidson College were: J. L. McLean, T. A. Guiton, Walter Bracey, S. R. Williamson, Claud
McIntosh, and Yancey Bowie.

SHARPE AND O'CONNOR SPEAK AT THYATIRA

Hiram Sharpe and E. P. O'Connor, under the auspices of the Ministerial Band, went to Thyatira Presbyterian Church at China
Grove last Sunday. At the morning service, O'Connor spoke first. He told of the need of recruits for lifetime service
for Christ. Hiram followed by making an impressive appeal for the young people to give their lives to Christian Service.
In the evening, O’Connor spoke to the young people, while Hiram went with Dr. E. D. Brown to Mt. Ulla
and there also presented the call of the ministry. At night, O’Connor, in a forceful speech before the Young Layman’s
Society, told them the needs of the world. Hiram spoke on the Purity of Christianity and its growth. Altogether they
made eight speeches and spoke to at least 600 people.

STUDENTS SUPPORT WEEKLY BIBLE CLASSES

Reuben and Judah were studied last Wednesday night in the Bible classes. There are to be five more meetings this
term at each of which two of Jacob’s sons will be discussed. The leaders group meets every Tuesday night with
Prof. Foreman as leader. The students are turning out well on most floors and are showing much interest in the
work. Anyone who has attended one of these meetings knows the good that can be obtained by getting a group
together and discussing freely these topics of religious interest.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Many of the students are taking a keen interest in helping with the Sunday School work at the various churches
near Davidson. They go out regularly to Shearer, the...

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS WORK IN MOORESVILLE

The Christian Endeavor Training Class met at its usual time on Sunday afternoon. Reports on deputations were given. It was
urged that those going on future deputations stress the challenge to full-time Christian service as the biggest thing for which
Christian Endeavor stands. L. L. Deck of the class went to the Mooresville First Presbyterian Church and conducted the Junior
Expert Class there. The Junior Endeavorers all showed a keen interest and many of them took an active part in
the meeting. Plans are being made for the Training class in the near future to go to Mooresville and lead
the meeting of the Senior Endeavorers. Davidson men are always welcomed there and it is hoped that a good number
will go.

DEPUTATION PLANNEDFOR GASTONIA CHURCH

John Grey and Wallace Moore will go to Gastonia on the twenty-ninth of this month on a “Y” deputation, where
they will speak to the young people in the First Presbyterian Church there. They will lay special emphasis on the
personal problems of high school students, and their common problems as members of the same student body. Clean living and
the wise choice of a life work together with clean high school sports will be stressed in the talks. Davidson,
as the mountain-head of this deputation work, has always stood for the highest, and this method of working out among
those who have not yet come to college, in order to give them some of the benefit of college men’s
experiences proves of great service both to the College and to those visited.

DR. SENTELLE SPEAKS AT UNION MEETING

Doctor Sentelle addressed the combined Ministerial and Volunteer Bands in a meeting Sunday morning, April 15. He discussed subjects vital
to ministerial candidates, “Should a college graduate spend a year in teaching before entering a theological seminary?” Doctor Sentelle says,
“Yes”; for the following reasons. A minister needs tact, understanding, patience, and a working knowledge of human nature. All these
he gains in the school room. There he comes in intimate contact with human nature and human character. He is
able to study those who are under him, and from that study to go into his work with a usefulness
and vigor which he could never have possessed otherwise. Many men would rush the process of equipping themselves for the
sake of a year or two of time. That course is unwise.

This very modern invention was accidentally discovered by Superintendent Stiles when one of the large steam pipes burst beneath the
stately structure. The inmates continued serenely to smoke their after-supper pipes until attention was drawn by the shouts of those
outside. Even then some in the Eastern extremity knew nothing of the affair—this strange and almost unbelievable phenomenon is attributed
to the fact that the Barracks are entirely sound-proof. To one coming suddenly upon the scene there was thrown open
to him an imposing picture. A geyser of steam at least two hundred feet in height gushed upward with a
terrific rush. All view of the building was obliterated. Windy Aiken in all earnestness spread the alarm of Fire! Mr.
Ryan was on the scene and started in at once to be a hero. He was heard to sigh, “Well
thank goodness there are no kitchen stoves to take out.” Lord Helper was also conspicuous by his presence and as
usual he had his trusty Pyrene. This gallant immediately took charge of the bucket brigade, his previous experience at the
McConnell fire having qualified him for this responsible task. His specialty is catching buckets from the roof. When the call
for volunteers to go under the Barracks to cut off the steam was issued, “Awful” it was, who stepped bravely
forward. He was held back from this signal honor, for which he hoped to win a medal like Mr. Ryan’s
by his many friends who feared that he might get wedged. This they figured would put the Barracks on too
firm a foundation. Fresh Delinger who arrived on the scene late demanded that it all be done over again for
his special benefit. The loss is estimated at close on to three dollars, this for new steam pipes, and the
total loss would have been much more but for the gallant work of the students. Some have even ventured to
place it at as much as three dollars and ninety-eight cents had the whole building burned.

D. Hippo Houck—Whom do I remind you of?
Ed Brown—Napoleon.
Hippo—Why, because I’m so brave?
Ed—No, because you're so dead.

A city and a chorus girl
Are much alike, ’tis true;
A city’s built with outskirts
And a chorus girl is too.

Overheard during Junior Speaking—
“I'll bet you a kiss I can steal a kiss from you!”
“I'll bet you two you can’t!”
“You win!”

It is true that the church needs men, and needs them badly, but the church, for its own sake, can
well afford to wait for its young men to become as well prepared as possible.

If shadow or stain ever darken your name;
Remember the world will be quick with its blame
Like Mother, like Son, is saying so true
The world will judge largely of Mother by you.
Be this, then, your task, if task it shall be
To force this proud world to do homage to me;
Be sure it will say, when its verdict you've won:
She reaps as she sowed: This man is her Son.
—Exchange.

And when the day draws to a close,
May I be given sweet repose,
And know that I have helped someone,
By kindly deed and duty done.
—Exchange.

Mr. Hughey McConnell spent the weekend with his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jesse McConnell. Mrs. A. L. Hobbs visited her
mother, Mrs. Curley, in Charlotte last week.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Baccalaureate Sermon—First Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at 11:30 A. M., by Rev. Alexander Martin, D. D., pastor of the
Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church, of Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Sermon before The Society of Missionary Inquiry—Arsenal Hill Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at 8:00 P. M., by Rev. Walter
L. Caldwell, D. D., pastor of the Woodland Street Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.

Tuesday, May 8th, 12 M.—Meeting of the Board of Directors of Columbia Seminary.

Tuesday, May 8th, 8:00 P. M.—Inaugural address of Rev. James B. Green, D. D., as Professor of Theology, in the
Seminary Chapel.

Wednesday, May 9th, 11:00 A. M.—Graduating exercises. Hon. John T. Brantley, president of the Board, presiding. Presentation of diplomas and
address by Rev. John M. Wells, D. D., L. L. D., president of the Seminary.

Even the dearest occasion may borrow a note of added fondness from a box of...
