THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923

4. Varsity athlete standing—the highest rating.

RELIGIOUS NEWS

For a rating of Excellent:
100 yard dash......... 11% seconds
Broad jump ............... 18 feet
High jump ................. 5 feet
Pole vault ................. 10 feet
Shot put .................. 35 feet

VESPER SERVICE

The service Sunday evening came as a climax to the entire conference. The speaker used as his text, “By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter; choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season.” He emphasized that “Self-sacrifice is higher than self-preservation.”

NEW CHURCH ANNEX IS FORMERLY OPENED

The new annex to the Presbyterian church was opened Sunday morning, and the seats parceled out to members of the Fresh and Soph classes. The seats are some four or five inches higher than those in the main body of the church, giving the appearance of a kind of a balcony.

The annex is furnished with opera chairs, each row a step higher than the one in front of it. The annex is separated from the rest of the church by a low railing and is approached by two short flights of stairs from the front. The front row is divided between the “L's” of the Fresh Class and the “A’s” of the Soph class, Arbuthnot and Austin sharing two seats.

For some years the church has been crowded and at the beginning of the present session no seats were available for the Senior class. On account of the crowding, they were permitted to attend either the evening or the morning service, as they desired. Since the annex has opened, there is ample room for both students and townspeople.

The annex is an extension thirty or forty feet long built on the east end of the original church. It is the second addition that has been made to the church in recent years, the other one being on the north side. The basement of the new addition is used for Sunday School rooms.

DR. CLARK SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER BAND

A union meeting of the Ministerial and Volunteers Bands was held Sunday morning. The president of the Ministerial Band presided. Doctor Clark addressed them at this time. He chose for his subject The Necessity of Presenting one’s Personality.

“It is easier to preach,” said the speaker, “than it is to practice what you preach. It is very depressing today where a pastor preaches the truth and does not practice it himself. The pastor has to contribute personality, and contribute it fully and wholly. When God calls a man, he wants his personality. It is a characteristic of the human being to take on from the outside, that is, to adapt himself to the environment. It is a natural thing, and in some way or another, preachers today try to imitate Billy Sunday, but they are unable to imitate him because they cannot imitate his personality.”

The speaker impressed the members of the Bands by giving an experience of a college professor, who was willing to let anything go on in order to make friends with the students. Later, he gave up teaching, and desiring a pastorate, was called to a certain town. The congregation of the church had just about decided to call him, but a shabbily dressed man came up before the congregation at the meeting and told of his experience with this man whom they were about to call, and said that the candidate was no more of a Christian than he himself was. Of course, they did not call him.

“Personality is what counts, and if one intends to be a successful minister, he must have a high personality. This is all that God asks for. The rest He does Himself, and through a man with a high personality He can work wonders.”

DOCTOR CLARK SPEAKS BEFORE ENDEAVORERS

On Sunday, March 11, several deputations were sent out by the Christian Endeavor training class, and last Sunday reports were heard from those who went on the deputations. Edmund O'Connell told of his trip to Mooresville and his work with the Juniors there. T. C. Barr and W. A. Gamble reported on their trip to Gastonia.

Following these reports Dr. Clark was asked to make a few remarks on young peoples’ work. He stated that a person has an opportunity for work with young people, no matter what his vocation may be. The demand is being made more and more for men who are trained in young peoples’ work. Young people of the adolescent age are the most willing to work and when they are past that age they are drawn away from Christian work by many other things. Probably the reason for that is the standard of physical efficiency.

The scoring table for these events requires that no special track uniform or equipment such as spiked shoes may be used and that competitors must be clothed in regular field service uniforms.

The day is coming when every high school will have a minimum physical requirement as a part of its curriculum and every college will have a minimum physical entrance requirement which will not be deviated from except in special cases. In the near future, the physical training requirement of all colleges will not only ascertain the number of hours of physical culture exercise to qualify for graduation, as it now is, but the achievement of a minimum standard of physical efficiency.

FRIDAY EVENING

“Follow me and I will make you fishers of men,” was the text used when Doctor Clark spoke on the Ministry as a Calling.

“The ministry is no easy job; it takes the best that a man has. It is the greatest field of service, and brings the greatest satisfaction to the worker.”

The speaker spoke of the great need for ministers of the gospel, bringing out the fact that all the men being turned out today by the Seminaries were only sufficient to take the place of the retiring pastors. “Money is in no sense an aim of the preacher, but his aim is the salvation of humanity. It is he who helps the outcasts and those crushed by sin, and leads them back to the Savior.

“The work is an inspiration to the preacher. People seek him, and God uses him to make the world happy and expectant.”

SATURDAY MORNING

“The day will come in the life of all,” spoke Dr. Clark, “When we shall estimate things in a new value. There were some reasons why the early Christians should not be ashamed, or afraid to follow Christ. But now there are none. Christ has given us a reproachless system of ethics and a character such as has not been seen before. We are to be glad to have the name of Christian, rather than be ashamed.

THURSDAY CHAPEL SERVICE

Dr. Clark took for his text, “Attempted Flight from God,” and applied it to the Christian who tries to evade his God-given duties.because there are so many blunderers and ignorant persons of good intention who are trying to do young peoples’ work. As it were, a shutter drops and the average young person forgets Christ. The best persons to work with young people are the adolescents for they have just passed that age.

R. O. T. C. NEWS

In November, 1922, Hon. John W. Weeks, the Secretary of War, called a conference to meet in Washington, D. C., to consider how federal and non-federal agencies can operate to realize more fully the provisions of the National Defense Act, as amended June 4, 1920. The conference had for its specific consideration three large phases of this tremendous national problem. The phase with which this article is concerned is Citizenship Training. The conferences were divided into three groups, or committees, and assigned one of the subjects for consideration, study, and recommendations.

Of the many significant recommendations made by the committee on citizenship training, that one which makes reference to physical training should receive the early recognition and support of every high school and college of the land. The committee agreed that a comprehensive, thoroughgoing program of universal physical education is of pressing and vital importance to the nation, and that state legislation for the acquisition and conservation of national vigor by means of thorough well-balanced programs of physical education is a fundamental necessity. The committee further agreed that one of the best means of attaining these objectives consists in formulating sound and generally applicable specifications and standards of physical fitness. Such specifications and standards furnish the most practical means of stimulating youths to participate in activities that make for physical efficiency. They also provide objective tests for measuring achievement. It is both practicable and desirable to set up specifications and standards of physical achievements for boys and girls on the basis of age, height, and weight.

It was recommended that the National Amateur Federation of America be asked to undertake to define these specifications and standards, and to promote their use. The following specifications and standards have been defined by this organization:

1. Junior high school boys of 15 to 16 years:
   For rating of excellent in physical efficiency:
   100 yard dash........ 13½ seconds
   Broad jump .......... 15 feet
   High jump ........... 4 feet, 2 inches
   Vault ............... 5 feet

2. Senior high school youths of 17 and 18 years:
   For rating of Excellent:
   100 yard dash........ 13 seconds
   Broad jump .......... 17 feet
   High jump ........... 4 feet, 4 inches
   Vault ............... 5 feet, 2 inches

3. Colleges—men 19 to 20 years:
   For rating of Excellent:
   100 yard dash........ 12½ seconds
   Broad jump .......... 18 feet
   High jump ........... 4 feet, 6 inches
   Vault ............... 5 feet, 4 inches

"The world is looking to Christians in the great time of need. It puts faith in Christianity when all else has failed. The world will follow a man who is not satisfied with money, but also invests his life in the service of God and humanity."

SUNDAY MORNING

In Doctor Richard’s pulpit, Doctor Clark took as his text, “Who then is willing to consecrate himself this day into the Lord?” When a man consecrates his life to a definite choice, he is making a choice. That which makes life beautiful is not the necessities of life, but the over and above spirit. “A man has not really lived until he has found some object or some individual for which he will lay down his life.”

THURSDAY EVENING

The story of Joseph and Mary losing Jesus in Jerusalem was the text for the evening service. “As Jesus was separated from His parents when they took him to Jerusalem, so it is possible for us to lose communication with Him. We will never be lost after we once become children of God, but we may oftentimes lose communion with Him. Many people lose communion with God, and especially do boys when thrown on their own resources. There are certainly causes for man to lose communion with Him. We become busy about worldly matters which crowd out our Christian activities. Neglect of prayer and Bible reading undermine our relationship with Him. A half dose of religion is just enough to make a man miserable. Total happiness is gained by swallowing the whole dose—becoming an out and out Christian. As Joseph and Mary took it for granted that Jesus was with them, so people think that after they have joined the church they are through. Jesus died not that we might be saved from Hell; He died that we might be saved for service.”

FRIDAY CHAPEL SERVICE

"The Supreme Principles in Choosing One’s Life Work," was the subject on which Doctor Clark spoke Friday morning. “Before the age of twenty-five,” said the speaker, “the majority of men have settled four questions of utmost importance in their lives: The questions of habits, marriage, religion, and career.”

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presbyterian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p.m., beginning Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednesday, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Charleston, S.C.

SMYTH LECTURES

Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
“Sermonic Sources”

Thursday, April 12th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jacksonville, Fla.
“Passion in Preaching”

Friday, April 13th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.
“The Man and His Message”

Monday, April 16th
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jackson, Miss.
“Regulative Ideas in Preaching”

Tuesday, April 17th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.
“Sermonizing”