DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer Today—1 Page

SOPHS HOLD BANQUET IN CHARLOTTE MONDAY

The Sophomores will stage their class banquet in Charlotte next Monday night, April 16. The committee in charge has arranged
a very attractive program and the members of the class are looking forward to a most enjoyable evening. As planned,
the class will go to Charlotte en masse on the 4:05 train and will give the Queens the once-over. At
7:00 o'clock that night everyone will assemble at the Chamber of Commerce for the grand old pastime of eating.

The banquet will begin promptly, in order that all the program can be carried out before time for the second
show at Keith's. Music will be furnished by the class quartet, string instruments, and possibly an orchestra. Toasts will be
proposed by members of the class. The guests from the faculty, Doctor Porter and Captain Ellis, will be called on
for speeches. These two faculty members, the president of the student body, and the presidents of the other three classes,
will all be guests of the Sophomores. It is planned to run off the election of class officers for the
coming year at this time. After these events, the crowd will disband to reassemble at Keith’s for the 9:00 o’clock
show, at which it is planned to have everyone sit together. Rumor has it that certain talented members of the
class will stage a special act during the performance. After Keith’s, a tired but happy bunch will wend their way
back to college in automobiles.

OPPORTUNITY!

Splendid opening in one of the most pleasant and beautiful sections of the country. Farm for sale adjoining Pinehurst, Moore
County, N. C.! 171½ acres, 10 acres peach trees, balance suitable for berries and truck. Good buildings. Market unlimited. Price
$6,500.00. Inquire of A. S. NEWCOMB & CO. PINEHURST, N. C.

Henderson Auto Electric Co.
BATTERY REPAIRING and ACCESSORIES
Davidson, N. C.

TOWN NEWS

Little Sonny Ellis, son of Capt. and Mrs. Ellis, has been quite sick for several days. Friends of Mrs. James
Shumaker will be glad to learn that she is back home again, after undergoing an operation at the Mercy-General Hospital
in Charlotte. Mr. G. B. Sorrells paid a business visit to New York City last week. Mrs. W. B. Romefelt
of Asheville, was a visitor last week, at the home of her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. An
old resident of Davidson, Mrs. W. B. Mayhew, died in Pineville, and was buried last week in the Davidson cemetery.
Mr. and Mrs. S. A. Robinson of Gastonia gave an elaborate buffet luncheon last Monday at the Davidson-Carolina game. The
guests invited from Davidson were Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin, Mr. and Mrs. F. L. Jackson, Dr. and Mrs.
J. M. Douglass, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell and Prof. and Mrs. A. Currie. The Civic League conducted a
successful rummage sale in one of the vacant stores last Saturday. Miss Helen Gibbs has returned from a prolonged visit
in South Carolina. Misses Margaret Adams and Johnsie Shelton have been quite ill recently. Mrs. J. F. Jamison of Charlotte
spent the weekend with Mr. and Mrs. G. E. Lothery. Friends of Mr. and Mrs. A. C. White will be
sorry to hear that he is still quite ill. Miss Jean Martin spent last week in Winston-Salem, as the guest
of Miss Elizabeth Norfleet. Davidson is very much interested in the announcement of the engagement of Stewart Gilchrist, '17 of
Charlotte and Miss Ellen Victor of Charlotte. Mr. Gilchrist is a loyal alumnus of Davidson, and Miss Victor has been
a popular visitor here. At the April meeting of the Woman's Auxiliary of the Presbyterian church last week, Dr. C.
M. Richards installed the new officers in a very beautiful and impressive service. Mrs. W. A. Jetton was elected delegate
to the Presbyterial meeting in Statesville, and the work for the coming year was mapped out. Mrs. Jopp, and grandson
“Bobbie” are guests of Prof. and Mrs. I. M. Currie. The Thelemite Book Club met Friday evening at the home
of Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin. The very pleasing program included a talk on astronomy by Prof. W. W.
Wood, and music was furnished by a string quartette from the College—Messrs. Elkins, Earnest, Seago and Crane. Mrs. L. M.
Currie gave a large and delightful tea Friday evening in honor of her mother, Mrs. Jopp, of Niagara Falls, N.
Y. Miss Lizzie Young spent last week in Concord at the home of her uncle, Mr. J. P. Allison. Mr.
Allison is a member of the college Executive Committee, and his many friends regret that he has not been very
well during the past winter. Among the visitors here the past weekend was Mac Richards, lately appointed Rhodes scholar, now
studying at Princeton University. He was invited to make a school address at Semora, Person county, this being the occasion
of his visit to his home. Chef McAlpine, '22, is principal at Semora. The Epworth Leaguers who attended the Statesville
District Institute in Mooresville last week, were Misses Grace Goodrum, Sue Moch, Madaline Cathey, and Mr. William Cathey. Rev. and
Mrs. Frank Armstrong, and little son, of Concord spent Monday with Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Goodrum. Mrs. A. L.
Hobbs visited her mother, Mrs. Curley, in Charlotte last week. Mr. Hughey McConnell spent the weekend with his parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Jesse McConnell. The officers and governors of the Men’s Club held their regular meeting last Monday. Next week
a feed is planned, to be held at the home of Mrs. Brady. The hotel question will again be brought
up. The Woman's Auxiliary met at the church last Thursday afternoon with Mr. R. H. Henderson in charge of the
program. In addition to the study of Africa the new officers for the ensuing term were installed by Doctor Richards.
The subject for the May meeting will be a Mexican Fiesta.

THE “QUEENS” INVADE JAYBIRDSVILLE AGAIN

The Queen’s Dramatic Club will present a three-act comedy, The Romancers, at Davidson on Tuesday evening, April 17, for the
benefit of the Annual. The play is a light comedy in which the love element is predominant, and love scenes
combined with several duels and swordplay make the play full of life and action. This marks the second appearance of
the Queen’s club on the hill this season, the first being the operetta Martha. The cast of characters is as
follows:

Personet, a lover.......... Cornelia Wearn
Stratforel, a bravado...... Buelah Holmes
Sergamin, father of Personet ........ Margaret Smart
Pasquinot, father of Sylvette.......... Elmina Howard
Blaise, a gardener.......... Perry Lee Bell
Sylvette, daughter of Pasquinot....... Meme Hampton
Musicians....Margaret Raymond, Kathleen McArtor
Swordsmen... Lucile Ewing, Perry Lee Bell, Lois Rogers, Irene Gibson, Katherine Stowe, Bessie Brake, Irene Gibson
Guards.... Mildred Henderson, Eloise Brady, Agnes Efird
Entertainers.. Misses McClure, Lois Rogers

Act I. The Wall.
Act II. Removal of the Wall.
Act III. The Wall again.

Wildcat Warriors Open Diamond Season and Conquer South Carolina on Cinders (Continued from Page 1)

walked and a bad throw to first advanced both men. Curtis, hurling for State, was equal to the occasion, and
shut out twoMen without allowing a score. The Red and Black nine had several other men on bases—eight, all told—but
the opportunity of scoring did not present itself again. Nealy Hunter pitched a great game for the Wildcats. While allowing
eight hits, he kept them scattered so that State did not threaten to score except in the sixth and eighth
innings. Nealy got one of the three hits marked up to Davidson's credit. Behind the bat, Brice played a near-perfect
game, completing a battery any team might be proud of. Capt. Pat Crawford strutted his usual good form at the
first sack, fielding everything in his vicinity and never missing difficult flies. Vance is credited with one of our three
hits. The fact that Davidson registered only one error proves that Hunter had perfect support, without which his hurling such
a mean pill would have been in vain. For the visitors, Curtis pitched a splendid game, allowing only three hits.
The scorekeeper marked down eleven strike-outs to the credit of the tall lad from N.C. State. The entire State club
worked in machine-like unison, though a few errors crept in to mar their otherwise perfect work.

THE GAME BY PLAYS

FIRST INNING—Starting off with an aggressive attack, the visitors put two men on base in a few minutes of play.
Ruth, first man up, walloped a single to left field. Gladstone was safe on first when Hunter made a wide
throw to Crawford. Davidson's infield tightened up, however. Johnson was thrown out at first base, and a double play, Olford
to Crawford, shut out State’s opportunity. Richards knocked a long fly to left field. S. Olford struck out. Pat Crawford
took his base on balls, stole second, and advanced to third on a wild throw from Faulkner, State’s catcher. F.
Alford drove one to short who handled it nicely.

SECOND INNING—Redfearn earned a hit through shortstop and went to second on a sacrifice by Faulkner. Lassiter’s fly was tucked
away by Wells in left field, and Richards sewed up a fly from Stout. Brice bunted to Curtis and was
thrown out at first. Covington and Wells struck out.

THIRD INNING—Curtis fanned. Ruth's attempt was handled by Richards to Crawford and Gladstone struck out. The game seemed to be
resolving itself into a pitchers’ duel. Vance struck out. Hunter drove a single inside short, and Richards walked. Hunter went
to third and Richards to second when a peg to first went wild. Crawford struck out.

FOURTH INNING—Three up, three down. Again Johnson and Correll hit to the infield and Redfearn drove a line drive into
Richards’ glove. Frank Olford popped one out to Redfearn at short. Brice was thrown out by Curtis. Covington was struck
by a pitched ball and given his base, advanced to second when Wells made first on Gladstone’s error, but was
thrown out attempting to reach third sack.

FIFTH INNING—Faulkner hit a single to right field, went to second on Lassiter’s sacrifice, and to third as Stout was
thrown out at first. Curtis fanned. Vance made a pretty hit to center field, but died on first when Hunter,
Richards, and Olford struck out.

SIXTH INNING—Ruth bunted and was safe on a bad throw from Brice. Gladstone was shut out. Johnson doubled to left
field, scoring Ruth. Correll slammed the pill out into left field again but was caught at second. Redfearn made first
on fielder’s choice. A peg from Richards to Crawford took care of Faulkner at the initial sack. Crawford and F.
Olford popped up to the infield and outfield respectively. Brice walked and Covington failed to connect with the horsehide sphere.

SEVENTH INNING—Hunter set three down in quick succession—Lassiter, Stout, and Curtis. Wells made first on an error by State's first
baseman. Vance fanned. Hunter popped up to catcher. Richards walloped a single through short but died on second when S.
Olford was caught at first.

EIGHTH INNING—State threatened again. Hits by Ruth and Gladstone followed by Johnson's sacrifice put N.C. in a scoring position. Hunter
fielded Correll’s hit, however, and threw Ruth out as he slid onto the rubber. Wells snagged Redfearn’s long fly and
the danger was past. Crawford, F. Alford, and Brice were out by perfect infield work.

NINTH INNING—Faulkner drove one to Richards, who handled it nicely. Lassiter registered a single to left field and Stout walked.
A double play by Olford, Richards, and Crawford shut out State’s last opportunity. Covington popped one up near first base.
Wells was safe on a wild throw from Redfearn. Boushee substituted for Hunter and struck out. Wells was caught off
first.

STATE AB R H SB SH PO A E
Ruth, lf............... 4 1 2 0 0 2 0 0
Gladstone, 2nd b... 3 0 1 0 1 3 0
Johnson, rf........... 3 0 1 0 1 0 0
Correll, cf............. 3 0 1 0 0 0 0
Redfearn, ss.......... 4 0 1 0 0 1 1 1
Faulkner, c........... 3 0 1 0 1 12 1 1
Lassiter, 1b.......... 3 0 1 0 1 9 0 2
Stout, 3b............... 3 0 0 0 0 0 1 0
Curtis, p............... 4 0 0 0 0 2 0

TOTALS ............ 30 1 8 1 4 27 7 4

Two base hits: Johnson; Left on bases—8; Base on balls—3; Strikeouts—by Curtis 11; by Hunter, 4. Time—1 hr. 40 min.

DAVIDSON AB R H SB SH PO A E
Richards, 2b.......... 3 0 1 1 0 3 5 0
Olford, S. ss.......... 4 0 0 0 0 2 4 0
Crawford, 1b......... 3 0 0 1 0 14 0 0
Olford, F. cf.......... 4 0 0 0 0 0 0 0
Brice, c................. 3 0 0 0 0 6 0 1
Covington, 3b........ 3 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
Wells, lf................. 4 0 0 0 0 2 0 0
Vance, rf............... 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0
Boushee, p............ 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 0
Hunter, p............... 3 0 1 0 0 0 4 0

TOTALS ............ 31 0 3 2 0 27 15 0

Score by Innings: 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
State.................. 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0—1
Davidson............. 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0

Carolina Game........
A kindly curtain should be drawn over the baseball game between Carolina and Davidson in Gastonia on Easter Monday. One
bad inning, in which the Wildcats looked like a bunch of high school players, turned what would have been a
good game into a comedy of errors. The final count was 12 to 5 with the Chapel Hill team on
the heavy end. The second inning was the one which did the dirty work. Five hits, two errors, two wild
pitches, and a hit batsman resulted in eight runs being chased over the rubber. The scorer called for an adding
machine to keep track of the tallies that trickled across the home platter. Boushee went in and finally retired the
Tar Heels. With the exception of that one disastrous inning, the game would have been a corker, for during the
rest of the contest the teams battled on even terms. “More experienced” tells the tale of Carolina’s superiority. Practically every
man on their team was a veteran while Crawford was the only man on the Davidson team who was not
playing his first college game in his position.

(Continued Next Week)

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE
People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Coach Currie evidently used good judgment in bringing Dick Richards in from center field to second, for Dick played some
real baseball around that corner of the diamond. Besides leading the club in number of assists and getting several put-outs,
Richards connected up with one of Curtis’ elusive curves for a hit. Ted Covington did spectacular work around third base
and at shortstop. S. Olford scooped up everything that came his way. In the outfield, Wells, F. Olford, and Vance
covered a lot of ground and stopped some.

Electrik Maid
BREAD PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
