4 The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief.
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor.
C. S. SHREMAN, Asst. Managing Editor.
W. M. COX, Associate Editor.
B. ERICE, Asst. Managing Editor.
A. C. WILDMAN, Associate Editor.
W. F. GALLOWAY, Athletic Editor.
W. M. HESTON, Peanut Parclier.
J. A. LAKE, Associate Editor.
R. R. JONES, Alumni Editor.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. L. PRICE, Business Manager.
WATT McCAIN, Circulation Manager.
P. J. STORY, Subscription Manager.

ASSISTANTS
W. H. CROMWELL
J. A. THOMPSON
J. L. McLEAN
G. A. McCLAIN

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.
HARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M. P.
MOORE, W. H.
EARNEST, J. R.
PATTON, J. H.
WHITE, H. M.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
POMEROY, W. L.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
LAKE, J. A.
PRICE, H. B.
McILWAINE, C. M.
McIVER, D. D.
SHARPE, W. H.
MAUZE, G. W.
WALTHALL, D. B.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WILDMAN, A. C.

AN INTRODUCTION

With the advent of a new regime, particularly in the case of a functioning college organization, there is attendant, naturally,
a feeling of verdancy. The incoming staff of The Davidsonian feels, despite the fact that each individual member has seen
service in the publication of the paper for the past two or three years, and has climbed the rungs of
earnest effort to his present position, that they are still in the embryonic stage. With the wholehearted cooperation of the
student body, only, can the Davidsonian be preserved as the “Livest wire on the Hill,” and the best college weekly
in Dixie. It is not only the magnetic power of the printer's ink and paste pot, and the natural love
for journalistic endeavor that incites the new Editorial Board to a resolve of faithfulness and diligence; but an ardent love
for Davidson, for Davidson honor, for Davidson tradition, and for Davidson’s future. The retiring staff has done its work, and
done it well. To the old editor and his staff the new Board owes a debt of gratitude and in
these columns we, of the newly elected staff, wish to pay that honor.

During the past year the Davidsonian was standardized as an eight-page paper. A financial problem which has hampered the paper
for the past several years has been...

Fellows, we have taken a great step toward making Davidson the best college in the world. The abolition of hazing
is one of the most important things any student body could do for their Alma Mater. Every man here will
some day look back upon the days when they were in college and see that this step has made Davidson
grow, and will see a better college spirit than there has ever been here. If any man shall regret that
hazing has been abolished he will not be a true son of Davidson. The Court of Control may not be
perfect but it cannot be expected to be perfect until it has been tried for a few years. Let's go
ahead with it. Let's support it, let’s back it, and if we see a wrong element in it let’s change
it and make it better. Hazing is a thing of the past here. —Order.

DR. MARTIN'S BOYS

“Human Nature Analyst” Passes Bouquet To Davidson Students.
From Charlotte Observer

To the Editor of The Observer:

Early yesterday morning I saw 67 Davidson college students eating at Brown's restaurant. They had been to a dance at
the Auditorium. I want to say here that in my experience of more than 30 years in making intensive study
of men—groups and individuals—in all circumstances—this Davidsonian student body is the finest I know of. Gentlemen all. Every one was
stylishly and neatly dressed from head to foot. Not an ugly word passed their lips. They were polite and courteous
and well-behaved in the highest degree. The manners of the Old South are returning. No official or professor was in
command of these boys, either. I'm more than proud of them. I would wish every one shall make North Carolina
home.

DAVID SHAW.
Charlotte, April 3.

PRESS BUREAU PLACED ON FIRM FOUNDATION

The Davidsonian Press Bureau has been severed from any connection with the Davidsonian, and from now on will operate on
the same basis as an assistant professorship. The work of this department is to be supervised by a member of
the faculty, to be appointed later. The Press Bureau was started two years ago, with Bill Cooper at its head.
During the past year Wiggs Bradford has been directing the work, and the services of the department have been a
means of greatly advertising the college. It was recognized that the Bureau was not directly a part of the Davidsonian;
that it had grown outside.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Little by little in every way,
Little by little, thru every day,
Little by little as time flies away,
I’m wasting more of it every day.

“I have only just a minute,
Only sixty seconds in it,
Forced upon me—can't refuse it,
Didn’t seek it, didn’t choose it,
But it is up to me to use it.
I must suffer if I lose it,
Give account if I abuse it.
Just a tiny little minute—
But Eternity is in it.”
—Exchange.

With Apologies to No One

Blessings on thee, little “hound,”
With thy hair all plastered down,
And thy mustache with two cute curls,
Packing the streets to watch the girls.
Cigarette holder and pocket flask,
“Where did you get them,” may I ask,
With thy manicured nails,
We all know whence this lad hails.
With thy line of love so neat,
And thy feminine talk so sweet,
I wish you luck, my little “hound,”
May you vamp every girl around,
From my heart I send you joy,
Glad I was not born a boy.
—An Agnes Scott Flapper.

The Seven Ages

Six—"Nice mans.”
Ten—"Carry my books.”
Sixteen—"I'll ask mother.”
Twenty—"Don’t be so slow.”
Twenty-five—"Do call me up.”
Forty-five—"Nice mans.”
Fifty-five—"Sweet daddy.”
—Exchange.

Late to bed,
And early to rise,
Keeps my roommate
From wearing my ties.
—Exchange

It’s You (The Forester)

If you want to have the kind of school
Like the kind of school you like
You needn't slip your clothes in a grip
And try every school in sight.
You'll find what you left behind,
For there's none that’s really better,
It's a knock at yourself when you knock...

One great factor in the success of the past Junior Speaking of 1923 was the number of girls on the
hill. The following is a list of the visiting girls:

Pi Kappa Alpha
Misses Ruth Nuckols, Mary Mills Ham, Sarah Jamison, Catherine Shelton, Jane Gilmer, and Mary Spier of Charlotte, N. C., Miss
Lois Rogers of San Antonio, Texas, Miss Marjorie McLeod of Maxton, N. C., Misses Mildred Morrison and Mildred Leak of
Greensboro, N. C., Misses Mary Agnes Funderburk and Hortense Cobb of Lancaster, S. C., Miss Jean Martin of Davidson, N.
C., Miss Dorothy Pilkinton of Charlottesville, Va.

Beta Theta Pi
Misses Rutledge Dudley, Kathryn Newson, Edith Gilchrist, Mildred Shepherd, Roberta Walker, and Cornelia Wearn of Charlotte, N. C., Misses Ruth
McMillan and Nell Brawner of Atlanta, Ga., Miss Mary Oeland of Spartanburg, S. C., Miss Mary Grier Poe of Rock
Hill, S. C.,Miss Anabel Burke of Opelika, Ala., Miss Ethel Battles of Rocky Mount, N.C., Miss Ellen Ramsey of Salisbury,
N.C.

Kappa Alpha
Misses Mary Lee Nuckols, Eileen Johnson, and Elizabeth Mather of Charlotte, N.C., Misses Virginia Loving and Marion Garrett of Hollins,
N.C., Miss Catherine Cannaday of Decatur, Ga., Miss Lucille Sherrod of High Point, N.C., Miss Lula Stockard of Raleigh, N.C.,
Miss Dorothea Garrell of Winston-Salem, N.C., Miss Sally Cruikshank of Spartanburg, S.C., Miss Frances Jeffries of Rocky Mount, N.C., Miss
Emmie Henny of Gastonia, N.C.

Kappa Sigma
Misses Mary Keesler and Henry Landis of Charlotte, N.C., Misses Dorothy Merriman and Elizabeth Armstrong of Greensboro, N.C., Miss Adelaide
Harris of Concord, N.C., Miss Nina Holt White of Davidson, N.C., Miss Lillian Thompson of Hamlet, N.C., Miss Louise Clinton
of Boise, Idaho, Miss Katherine Newberry of Honolulu, Hawaii, Miss Jean Lampton of Magnolia, Miss., Miss Hannah Lilly of Fayetteville,
N.C., Miss Elizabeth Mallory of Murfreesboro, Tenn., Miss Dell Bernhardt of Lenoir, N.C.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Faith Price and Laura Tillett of Charlotte, N.C., Miss Lenoir Dryer of Birmingham, Ala., Miss Rachel Carpenter of Greenville,
S.C., Miss Lois Mathieson of Anniston, Ala., Miss Annie Earle Farmer of Anderson, S.C., Miss Catherine Armstrong of Greensboro, N.C.,
Miss Evelyn Goswick of Winston-Salem, N.C., Miss Margaret Elliot of Columbia, S.C., Miss Gilder Wiley of Lancaster, S.C.

Bachelor’s Club
Misses Charlotte Milstead, Helen Hardie, Elsie Brown, Sarah Carson, Helen Crowell of Charlotte, N.C., Misses Katherine Garvine and Janie Howard
of Atlanta, Ga., Misses Mary Howe, Louise Lineberger, and Mary Lineberger of Belmont, N.C., Miss Frances Robinson of Gastonia, N.C.,
Miss Margaret McCullie of Greenville, S.C., Misses Mildred Henderson and Margaret Smith of Winston-Salem, N.C., Miss Nancy Burns of Wadesboro,
N.C., Miss Laura Alexander of Charlotte, N.C.

Delta Theta Chi
Misses Frances Partlow and Lorine Brown of Charlotte, N.C., Miss Lula Mae Smith of Statesville, N.C., Miss Ruby Hill Devlin
of Greenwood, S.C., Miss Marion Wise of Lincolnton, N.C., Miss Mildred Sherrill of Cornelius, N.C.

Pi Alpha Pi
Miss Elizabeth Laird of Charlotte, N.C., Miss Elizabeth Neel of Mooresville, N.C., Miss Briswell Patterson of Littleton, N.C., Miss Elizabeth
Causey of Greensboro, N.C., Miss Norma Carmel of Norlina, N.C., Miss Candace Bryant of Charlotte, N.C., Miss Wilda Shamhart of
Greenville, N.C., Miss Marion Shamhart of Greenville, N.C., Miss Virginia Armstrong of Belmont, N.C., Miss Zelma Paxton of Charlotte, N.C.

Non-Fraternity
Miss Dorothy Patterson of Lynchburg, Va., Miss Claudine Krider of Salisbury, N.C., Miss Lottie Hand of Belmont, N.C., Miss Louise
Patterson of Bedford, Va., Miss Nell Marks of Augusta, Ga., Miss Laura Barclay of Pittsboro, N.C., Miss Helen Lemmond of
Matthews, N.C., Miss Louise Rogers of Charlotte, Miss Marguerite Wilson of Stovall, N.C.

Heard in Advertising Class:
“The purpose of Wrigley’s advertising is to put Wrigley’s gum on the map.”
Voice from the rear: “I thought it was to put it in the map.”

---

The business department has been placed on a tangible working basis. The paper, as a herald of the news of
the campus and a promoter of Wildcat spirit and ideals, has taken steps to make it a college proposition, enabling
it to function on an even larger basis. Bradford and Galloway have been selected to operate the Press Bureau. Both
of these students are experienced in this work and will continue this department along the same efficient and serviceable lines
it has been conducted heretofore.

What’s Doing
Thursday, April 12th
7:15 P.M.—Eu. Society
7:30 P.M.—Phi Society

Friday, April 13th
10:00 P.M.—Reporter Club

Saturday, April 14th
3:30 P.M.—Wake Forest vs. Wildcats
Track Meet, N.C. State vs. Wildcats, at Raleigh
7:30 P.M.—Pola Negri, in “Bella Donna”

Sunday, April 15th
10:00 A.M.—Volunteer Band
10:00 A.M.—Ministerial Band
11:00 A.M.—Church services
6:15 P.M.—Christian Endeavor Class
6:30 P.M.—Sunday School
7:15 P.M.—“Y” service

Monday, April 16th
8:00 P.M.—Soph Banquet, Charlotte

Tuesday, April 17th
3:30 P.M.—Wofford vs. Wildcats
8:00 P.M.—Pandemic Society
8:00 P.M.—Metropolitan Society
8:00 P.M.—Queens College Dramatic Club—Shearer Hall

Wednesday, April 18th
3:30 P.M.—Wofford vs. Wildcats
9:00 P.M.—Bible Classes

---

You can’t expect when you do not try,
Good grades on your lessons to make,
You'll only flunk when you waste your time,
And your good record you'll break.

If going to school doesn’t pay,
Look at it this way:
It isn’t the school—it’s you.

When everybody works and nobody shirks,
Your school will be what you want it to be,
It isn’t the school—it’s you.

To act without thinking may get you into trouble,
But to think without acting will get you nowhere.

A Morning Prayer
Help me to be kind this day,
To all I meet on life’s highway,
A cheery word and a pleasant smile,
Are little things but well worth while.

Boost
Boost your school, boost your friend,
Boost the society you attend,
Boost the dormitory where you live,
Boost your class, no other will,
Boost the people round about you,
They can get along without you.
But success will quicker find them
If they know that you're behind them.
Boost for every forward movement,
Boost for every new improvement,
Boost the teacher for whom you labor,
Boost the classmate and the neighbor.
Cease to be a chronic knocker,
Cease to be a progress blocker,
If you'd make your school better
Boost it to the final letter.
—Exchange
