THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

Town News

An entertainment in honor of the new faculty members and their families was given in the library Saturday night, October 20th at eight o’clock. Dr. T. W. Lingle was the master of ceremonies. Dr. W. J. Martin first gave a hearty welcome to the new faculty members. Professor Porter, who made quite an extensive tour in the West, gave a short talk about his trip. Professor Goldiere also made a talk about his trip to Cuba. Professor Blythe told of his interesting travel in Spain. Dr. Shaw, of Charlotte, and Miss Pierce, librarian of the Charlotte public library, guests of Miss Cornelia Shaw, were present at the faculty party.

Mr. James Grey, a Davidson alumnus, and his bride were guests of Doctor and Mrs. Grey last Sunday. An event of interest will be the marriage of Mr. James Blue and Miss Mildred Hobbs at the Presbyterian Church Thursday night, October the twentieth.

Mrs. Sallie Paisley motored over to Statesville Sunday afternoon. Miss Kathryn Gillis, of Statesville, spent the week-end with Miss Mary Hamilton, of Davidson. Miss McQueen, of Wilmington, is visiting her niece, Mrs. F. L. Jackson, of Davidson. Miss Eloise Martin spent the weekend in Charlotte. Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies, Jr., spent the weekend in Charlotte. Misses Maxwell and Stokes, of Pennsylvania, who have been the guests of Mrs. M. H. Ellis, will return to their homes Friday.

The Book-Lovers Club met at the home of Mrs. T. W. Lingle on last Friday evening. Interesting talks were made by Dr. W. R. Grey and Professor Blythe.

George Robson, former Davidson student and son of Mrs. Alice Robson, in charge of the infirmary, is leading his class at the University of Pennsylvania in scholastic work. He is studying medicine, and his grades are the highest in his division, composed of two hundred and fifty students.

Mrs. Archibald Currie was in Wilmington a short time ago, attending a meeting of the North Carolina Synodical. Mrs. I. M. Clift, of Miami, Fla., will arrive in Davidson some time this week for a visit to Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle.

Yes, we have good things to eat. The Misses Schofield.

FEEDS? SEE W. B. BARNETTE AND CO.

We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men.

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

BETTER FIRE PROTECTION ASSURED THE COLLEGE

Better fire protection for Davidson students and all campus buildings was installed this week when the new system of clock patrols was put into operation by Mr. VanSant, the local plant engineer. Four students have been employed to make regular trips through the buildings of the campus every night. The watchmen of the night are F. T. Franklin, O. M. Brown, R. T. Kimzey, and F. H. Lindley. These men began their work Monday night. Every night, from nine until one o’clock, at intervals of one hour, each building is visited and inspected. From two until six o’clock another watch starts by a relief man. The system calls for each watcher during five hours every other night throughout the college year. Each will receive $12.50 per month for his services.

Twenty stations with keys for the clock which the watchman carries with him have been installed throughout the buildings. The older buildings, Rumple, Georgia, Louisiana, and Concord, have more patrol stations than the fire-proof dormitories, Watts, East, and West.

WILDCATS BOW (Continued from page 5)

Wake Forest intercepted a pass, bringing the ball to the 44-yard line. First down was made and after the next play the quarter ended. Score, Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.

Fourth Quarter: Wake Forest made first down, but failing to make the required ten in four plays, the ball went over to Davidson. Gaining nine yards in three trials, Davidson chose to kick, Shepherd punting 45 yards. Karleskint made 18 yards and first down. Rackley clipped off fifteen more over left tackle for another first down. The Baptists gained six more, but Black intercepted a pass on Davidson's 6-yard line. McComb carried the ball four consecutive times, making first down. After two trials Shepherd punted to Griffin, who fumbled, Faison recovering the ball on Wake Forest’s 40-yard line. In attempting a forward pass, Wake Forest intercepted it on her 34-yard line. Wake Forest made first down on three plays, and Rackley skirted left end for 22 yards more and first down. On the next play the game ended. Final score, Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.

BIBLE CLASSES HELD IN EACH DORMITORY

Sunday morning the Bible discussion groups held under the direction of the Y. M. C. A. were started. These classes are held on every floor of each dormitory with the exception of Rumple. Here the second and third floors on each side and the two first floors meet together. They are held for and by the students every Sunday morning at ten o'clock. It has been the custom in the last two years for them to be held on weeknights, but it was thought that a better attendance could be had on Sunday.

An attendance committee has been appointed by Harry Price, which is helping to enroll the students and will help in keeping up the attendance. So far the figures as to the enrollment are not available, but a large number have signified their intention to attend. The subject of the study is Student Standards of Action and a textbook of that name is used. This is a general discussion of student problems asseen by men who have finished college. Professor Fleagle conducts a Leaders’ Training Class for the teachers every Wednesday night at nine-thirty o’clock in Shearer Hall.

Scoring: Touchdown, Greason Wake Forest. Substitutions: Davidson: Hodgin for Laird; Hunt for DeArmon; Covington for Hunt; DeArmon for Covington; Cox for Boggs; Laird for Hodgin; Hodgin for Lindamood; McComb for DeArmon; Sappenfield for Hendrix; Sapp for McComb. Wake Forest: Armstrong for Griffin; Riley for Daniels; Jones for Johnson; Griffin for Armstrong; Daniels for Riley; Green for Ellerbe; Ellington for Griffin; Sykes for Karleskint.

Officials: Izard, Washington and Lee, referee; Whitaker, N. C. State, umpire; Major Clemson, headlinesman and timekeeper. Time of periods 15 minutes.

CAMPUS LEADERS SELECTED BY OMICRON DELTA KAPPA
(Continued from page 1)

of the Metrophilian Literary Society. This fall he has won fame with his “Ponzi” skill in handling the finances of the football team.

The leadership of this year’s baseball team depends on Boushee. The past three years have seen him hurling the leather sphere from the mound, two years as a scrub pitcher and the past year as the main stand-by of the varsity. His berth on the Senior class basketball team this year is practically assured which will place two years of class basketball to his credit. In addition to these athletic attainments, Boushee is rounding his college career by a high scholastic standing.

W. F. Galloway ran the eight eighty his Sophomore year in the fastest time in the South, and by doing so won the coveted D in track. Since then, however, Galloway has turned his efforts into literary channels. As Editor of the D. C. Magazine, he has plans which will make it one of the best publications of its kind in the South. He has also distinguished himself as a member of the Dramatic Club and has maintained a good scholastic average, being on the honor roll the past year. He is a valuable Davidsonian man.

The success of the Quips and Cranks of this year will rest on the shoulders of W. M. Heston. But Bill has not confined himself to the annual alone. For the past two years he has served on the Davidsonian staff. His literary and linguistic abilities have made him a member of Sigma Upsilon and president of the Spanish Club, but it is by his versatile pen that he is best known. He designed the decorations for the gymnasium at the past Junior Speaking and his drawings have been heading the different departments of Quips and Cranks for the past two issues.

Old members of O. D. K. are: Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. W. R. Grey, A. L. Currie, Dr. W. J. Martin, G. W. Hengeveldt, F. L. Jackson, Dr. J. M. Douglass, Dr. T. W. Lingle, W. T. Jones, C. M. Davis, E. S. Faison, A. M. Hillhouse, J. I. Smith, L. D. Elkins.

“Y” SPONSORS SUNDAY SCHOOLS IN COUNTRY

A manifestation of renewed interest in the “Y” Sunday School work, every Sunday afternoon there are about 20 students who wend their ways to their respective Sunday Schools. In almost every Sunday School there is an increase in attendance. At Shearer Church last Sunday there were 72 present which is an increase over the average attendance. The students who go to this Sunday School are: Forrest Franklin, Archey Ray, Dope Matheson, Burns Gibbs, Blackey Rayburn, Frederick Smith, J. W. Crinkley, and G. M. Morrow. Franklin leads the singing.

Piggy Martin, with the help of Moffett and Harry Price, is doing a good work at the convict camp. Piggy reports that there seems to be an awakening of interest among men. The audience is continually changing and that makes it a difficult field to work in.

Tag Guiton is in charge of the group which goes to Cornelius. Barr leads the singing. The others who help Guiton are Parker, Williford, and McMillan. Last Sunday there was an attendance of 87. The new church building will soon be completed and that will make it possible to accommodate more pupils.

J. C. McJunkin is the student leader at Hobson’s Chapel, which was formerly known as Brawley’s School House. Layton Greene leads the singing and teaches one of the classes. There is an average attendance of 65. However, 75 were present last Sunday.

The work at the mill chapel was well attended last Sunday. Mr. Jackson has charge of this work and Marion Murray is the student leader.

These college men like to do things on the run! Not much time to do their shopping--- There’s where we shine! We are ready at a moment's notice. Everything that’s needed -- smart and correct Fall suits, overcoats, shoes, oxfords, hats, and furnishings.

MELLON’S
8-10 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

3rd floor—Oeland, R. W.
4th floor—Lake, J. A.

West Dormitory:
1st floor—Stith, M. C.
2nd floor—Brownh, C. V.
3rd floor—Gracey, W. M.
4th floor—Laws, J. D.

Georgia Dormitory:
1st floor—Gallent, J. B.
2nd floor—Phlegar, D. S.
3rd floor—Walker, J. R.

Tralee Watts:
1st floor—Regen, E. K.
2nd floor—Patterson, N. G.
3rd floor—Price, H. B.
4th floor—Murray, M. J.

Rumple:
1st floor—McBride, A. M.
2nd and 3rd floors East—McLean, J. L.
2nd and 3rd floors West—Hodgin, C. E.

North Barracks—White, H. M.
South Barracks—McJunkin, J. C.
Louisiana—Hudgins, A. P.

SEVERAL MEN ON SICK LIST FOR PAST WEEK

Malady finds an inhospitable host when he knocks on a Sophomore’s door. This was the only class not represented at the hospital last week. Mason Field was there for a reason known to all Davidson men. W. M. Heston, the other Senior, became so seriously ill that it was necessary to remove him to a Charlotte hospital. It is a pleasure to announce that he is much improved. R. G. White was the Juniors’ representative. Freshmen W. J. Fleming, G. N. Turner, and L. P. Wilkinson suffered abdominal pains. It seems that their digestive organs were somewhat overtaxed.

DAVIDSON

“What a difference just a few cents make!”