Back the Red and Black

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., SEPTEMBER 28, 1923

Win For the Wildcats

No. 19

Doctor Mims of Vanderbilt Speaks On “The Fight for Idealism In America”

Wonderful Address Given in Shearer Hall on Idealism

LARGE AUDIENCE PRESENT

President Martin Introduces Speaker to Davidson Audience

On Tuesday night, September 18th, the college and the people of Davidson had the pleasure of hearing Dr. Edwin Mims lecture on the subject, The Fight for Idealism in America. Dr. Mims has been the head of the English department of Vanderbilt University since 1912. Previous to this time he had held professorships in the English departments of Trinity College and the University of North Carolina. He has taught at a number of collegiate summer schools, and as an author and lecturer he holds a high position in literary circles. Dr. Mims was introduced to the audience by President Martin, and after a short word of greeting the speaker of the evening proceeded with his lecture. The lecture, in part, was as follows:

“It appears to me that there are two well-defined points of view in contemporary thought and that there is an irrepressible conflict between these two points of view; on the one hand, we have worldliness, indifference, materialism, determinism, pessimism and cynicism; on the other, we have seri- (Continued on page 2)

A Call to Quit Knocking Voiced by Prof. Currie

Says That Knocking Does No Good

Constructive Criticism Always Welcome

Professor Archie Currie was the inspirational speaker at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening. Taking as the scripture lesson Joshua 6:1-20, the account of the fall of Jericho, Professor Currie brought home in a practical way the lesson to be learned from the Israelites besieging the walls of the city. He showed in a forcible manner the harmful effects that come from knocking.

“The Israelites,” said the speaker in opening, “although differing externally were essentially the same as we are today. They were a stiff-necked people, always complaining, and determined to have their own way. There were people then, as there are now, who knew more about the government than those in charge, and these people were always knocking the administration.

“Jericho was shut up, so that none could come in or go out of the city, because the people of Jericho had been filled with a sort of superstitious fear of the Israelites. God had performed miracles and had oftentimes delivered the (Continued on page 6)

Y. M. C. A. Cabinet Begins Year’s Work With Plan for Service to Student Body

Many New Ideas Brought in With Changes in Various Committee Chairmen

The entire cabinet of the College Y. M. C. A. is greatly enthused with the plan of work which has been mapped out for the present term. It is the purpose of this organization to render to the student body a complete and efficient service in every phase of its activities. Lee McLean has been appointed vice-president as successor to McBryde, who resigned a short time ago. As head of the personal work committee, McLean will gladly discuss with any student his life’s work.

The cabinet has changed the time of the weekly Bible study classes from 9:30 Wednesday evening to 10 o'clock Sunday morning. A careful selection of teachers has been made by Eugene Regen, who is in charge of the Bible study. There will be a class organized on each floor in every dormitory. If the textbooks arrive this week the first meetings are to be held next Sabbath.

McBryde’s work on the deputations committee of the cabinet is taken over by Henry White, who expects to send a great many men on “Y” deputations to nearby towns. Opportunities presented for good work in our own community will not be neglected. Marion Murray is to lead the work among the boys of the town. A part of the program consists of holding Sunday School meetings in the mill chapel. Albert Hillhouse, who handled the Freshman registration and Freshman reception in such a capable manner, is (Continued on page 8)

Richardson Field Nears Finish With Student Aid

Athletic Association Donates Many Shekels to Students

Nickels, quarters, dollars and dimes to the amount of $240 is the latest donation of the Athletic Association to members of the Davidson student body for services rendered on the new athletic field. By the sweat of their brows they earned it, manfully wielding for whole hours at a time the various tools used in the art of dirt moving. Carts and wheelbarrows responded splendidly to the persuasive efforts of the lily-fingered laborers and the battlefield of the future rapidly assumed a finished appearance.

The industrial opportunity to claim the modest fortune of two bits an hour was presented to the student body by President Hillhouse at the chapel exercises one morning shortly after the opening of the session. The quota of 25 men an afternoon was quickly filled and a waiting list was prepared. The creation of blisters has progressed steadily for four hours each afternoon since, until the Saturday of the Elon football game. Since then, the financial managers of the contracting parties have been kept busy transferring the dollars from the coffers of the one to the pockets of the other.

The work was done by the students not so much for the financial gain and the exercise to be derived from it, but more in the spirit of helpfulness, and the desire to see a splendid athletic field at Davidson College.

Wildcats Meet Blue Stockings Tomorrow in Hectic Battle

TEAM PRIMED FOR CONTEST

Rock Hill Scene of Annual Game Between Presbyterian Institutions

The Wildcat varsity, following another week of hard practice under the directorship of Coach Monk Younger, will meet the Presbyterian College of South Carolina eleven at Rock Hill, S.C. on Friday. Judging from the squad’s training during the first part of the week in straightening out the kinks that showed upIn the Elon game, the Red and Black warriors are tuned up to the last pitch for the annual clash with the sister college south of the local fair. (Continued on page 8)

ENROLLMENT BY STATES
North Carolina 314
South Carolina 56
Georgia 49
Virginia 18
Mississippi 17
West Virginia 9
Florida 23
Tennessee 25
Texas 6
Missouri 2
Alabama 31
Louisiana 10
Kentucky 4
Kansas 2
Iowa 1
Maryland 1
District of Columbia 1
Japan 3
China 5
Total 577

Wildcats Pass Their Way to Victory Over Christians In Season’s Opener

Stunt Night To Replace Senior Speaking Week Efforts Toward its Success Instead

The proposed event of Stunt Night to take place on October 13th will be the main social event of the fall term at Davidson College. Previously, Senior Week held forth in all its glory, but this age-worn institution has of late fallen into disrepute and is probably gone forever. The Seniors at a class meeting Monday morning voted for good and sundry reasons to abolish this event and to concentrate on Stunt Night. They will give a stunt for the class of '24, the Glee Club and Dramatic Club will have similar entries, while individuals and probably other organizations will put on various performances. Those desiring to have a place on this program will please see Ted Jones, Liston Elkins, John Simpson, or Piggy Martin at once. It is hoped that some of the other classes will follow the lead of the Seniors and have some stunt put on, and that all individuals interested will not fail to see those in charge. While Senior Week is gone forever, in one particular Stunt Night should (Continued on page 3)

Hendrix and Gig Shepherd Star in Wildcat Offense Against Christians

SUMMERS’ WORK FEATURES

Davidson Makes Twelve First Downs and Outgains Elon Ten to One

The Davidson Wildcats pried the lid off North Carolina’s 1923 football season Saturday, the 22nd, defeating the Elon Christians 19 to 0 on a slow, rough field at Cornelius, N.C. The game, scheduled to be played on the new athletic field at Davidson, was moved to Cornelius at the eleventh hour to save the new field, which was soft and wet. Despite the questionable weather, a large crowd turned out to see the Davidsonians and Elonites in their annual clash, and Cornelius witnessed the largest crowd gathered there since the days when the circus made that town. Despite the fact that they were outweighed considerably, Coach Younger's cohorts advanced the ball consistently in the first quarter on straight football, only to fail to gain on Elon’s 5-yard line, the ball going over. Elon kicked out of danger, the ball going out of bounds on the 30-yard line. Hendrix ran the ball back 20 yards on the first play and the quarter ended (Continued on page 8)

Christians Lie Vanquished On Site of Wildcat’s First Conquest of Season

Rhodes Scholars To Be Elected Early In Fall From Nine Southern States Whence Davidson Draws Students

Rhodes scholars will be selected this fall from the following states, among others: North Carolina, South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Texas, and West Virginia. The applicant must have been born between October 1, 1899, and October 1, 1905. Character and leadership, literary and scholastic attainments, and physical vigor are the determining qualities. The successful applicant will receive three hundred and fifty pounds sterling annually to enable him to study at the University of Oxford for three years. Any Davidson graduate or Senior desiring to apply for appointment from any of the above-named states should report the fact at once to Professor Lingle, in order that he may secure the proper endorsement from the faculty. Formal application and testimonials must be prepared and sent to the secretary of the state committee on selection before October 27th. During the session opening this fall, the following parties will be in residence in Oxford: Mr. McCloy, Davidson graduate and Rhodes scholar from Arkansas; J. M. Richards, Davidson graduate and Rhodes scholar from North Carolina; Houston White, Davidson graduate who goes independently; Misses Mary Richards and Mary Black, of Davidson, who were educated at Converse and Flora Macdonald respectively.

Scene Removed to Cornelius on Account of Rain on Richardson Field

The life blood of the Elon boys which was to have christened Richardson Athletic Field now lies curdled in pools on the gridiron at Cornelius. Rain and more rain was the cause of the change in program last Saturday, but such a change made no effect on the Wildcats in their clawing activities. The game was to have been played on the utility field, which is now completed and is sprouting a fine sod of grass. The preservation of this sod during the wet season was the object in moving the site of the battle. Many visitors had come from far and near to see the first game of the season played on the new thirty-thousand-dollar field, but they were doomed to disappointment, and their cars were headed in the direction of the Cornelius metropolis in short order. The field at Cornelius was in excellent shape. The light rains had made little effect on the sandy clay and the ground was just damp enough not to be hard. The battlefield was enclosed with a high board fence on which were perched hundreds of Wildcat supporters. The sidelines were populated to a depth of eight to ten feet on both sides of the field. From the end of the dinner hour Saturday to the whistle’s shriek at 3:30, the streets in the southern end of Davidson resembled those of Pompeii at the time of the eruption of Vesuvius. As one man, the student body moved to Cornelius and there beheld the first victory of the Wildcats for the season 1923, on foreign territory.

Presbyterian Meets Presbyterian--- Wow!