DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

DELEGATION TO BLUE RIDGE

Thirty-five Men Goal Set for Delegation to Summer Conference.

Ted Jones, President-elect of the Y. M. C. A., is working hard for a strong delegation from Davidson College to the Y. Conference at Blue Ridge, N. C., June 15-24. Here there is annually held the gathering of the Y representatives from all over the South, and there will be representatives this summer attending from every college from Tulane to V. P. I. and from Center to the University of Florida. Davidson has always been well represented but the plans of the Y this year are due to get a better bunch if possible than has ever before gone from here. The University of N. C. and N. C. State College are planning and working for a goal of one hundred men between them for this summer’s conference. This means that Davidson must send a large number if she is to uphold the honor of the old college. To do this, Ted has set his goal at thirty-five men. All of next year’s cabinet men are especially urged to go, while all others interested are asked to see Ted Jones at once and he hopes to have just as many of them go as can possibly do so. If any man wishes to go, everything possible will be done by the Y officials to help him arrange matters. There will be no limit to the number of delegates from Davidson this year. So far, between fifteen and twenty have signified their intention of going, among whom is found a goodly number of athletes. Two of the tennis team are planning to go and along with them are nearly all of the track team, several of the basketball team, several of the scrub baseball team, and the best swimmer in college. In addition, the quartette is going, so it seems Davidson will be represented in every branch of activity. It is highly pleasing to the Y leaders to see so many men of athletic ability among the delegates because this means the possibility of bringing back to Davidson the athletic cup that is annually awarded to the college showing up best in the different lines of athletics. However, because a man is not an athlete, he should not think he will not be wanted among Davidson’s delegation nor that he will not have a good time throughout the conference. Every man who has ever attended one of these summer gatherings will assure him of about the best time imaginable together with a most profitable ten days. The list of speakers so far secured for the ten-day assembly includes such well-known men as Robert E. Speer, Dr. W. D. Weatherford, Ralph Harlon, Hon. Stitt Wilson, Arthur Rugh, Eugene Barnett, Major Morton, A. Herbert Gray of Scotland, and O. E. Brown. The hotel fare for the ten days will be $25 and the conference registration fee is $5.

ANNOUNCEMENT!

NEW PRESSING CLUB

GIVE US A TRIAL

E. A. FRY

SHOE REPAIRING

SUITS PRESSED

FACT AND FICTION ABOUT EVOLUTION

By R. L. Foster

ANNUAL PUBLICATION FOR COLLEGE POETS

Just at this time of year, the Stratford Company begins to collect material for the College Anthology. A request has come to Davidson for poems, and an invitation is extended to any student to try his hand. It is a distinct honor for any college student to have a poem appear in this publication, since every big college in the United States has representatives who aspire to this honor. Davidson has one student who has thus attained this honor, W. F. Galloway, who was mentioned in the 1922 publication of The College Anthology. The Davidson College Magazine published last semester brought out the fact that Davidson has some other poets. Several selections were very commendable, and the 1923 compilation of poems should show several more representatives. The volume to be issued this year is the seventh attempt by this company, and in its publications can be found the poets of the future. The volume is an interesting collection of poems, including free verse, sonnets, and any other forms of verse one might desire to read. For the benefit of any who might wish to enter the contest, all poems for this year’s College Anthology should be sent, not later than May 15, to Dr. Henry T. Schnittkind, 223-240 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

PLOUGHSHARES AND PRUNING HOOKS

Since time immemorial, men having like tastes in this life have banded themselves together to further or to oppose, as the case may be, any measure which they may or may not approve. In the excitement and stress of the war, dazzled by the way in which the feminine heart began to flutter whenever the sons of Mars appeared in their battle array, certain of those same sons banded themselves into a brotherhood for the furtherance of military life and purposes. However, noble, brave, and peace-loving men paid little heed to such a movement, until they suddenly realized the great dangers it carried. These men, too, naturally began to congregate themselves at various times, and to discuss ways and means to combat such a movement so opposed to their peace-loving and war-hating natures. At Davidson College, where all great things originate, these men have announced publicly their opposition to all military organization, and have banded themselves into a fraternity to be known as the Ploughshares and Pruning-hooks, these implements best setting forth their ideals. So intent are they, indeed, on their work, that they have agreed to oppose any measure backed by any organization which propagates terrible war, and to further any movement which they (the R. O. T. C.) oppose. Only those who have the high purposes and ideals of such a work dear in their hearts are permitted to become affiliated, and before any man may apply for membership, he must prove that he has fulfilled one of the following requirements: (1) Been busted twice to lower rank, (2) Received at least 40 demerits, (3) Been ordered before faculty by P. M. S. & T., (4) Been campused 60 days for cutting drill. The charter members are: E. H. Mauze, L. H. S., E. T. Woolfolk, B. V. D., G. W. Mauze, Q. E. D., A. V. Gibson, W. T. Elliott,D. Owens, E. B. Crow. Though the last two are but Sophs, they have shown their devotion to this cause. Several others are attempting to qualify now.

DRIRMEACIENS

You know I love you, fond and true,
My only thoughts are just of you;
Before you, darling, I will kneel,
Pray tell me, can you cook a meal?
I'll buy for you the finest frock,
But tell me, can you darn a sock?
You love me, too, my heart’s entrance,
But could you, would you patch my pants?
—Ex.

CAMPAIGN HEADQUARTERS MOVED
MECKLENBURG COUNTY GOES OVER
Local County Raises Quota Assigned by Campaign.

Two most important developments in the progress of the Davidson College Campaign last week were the moving of the campaign headquarters to Davidson, and the completion of the Mecklenburg County quota.

On last Saturday the office headquarters of the campaign, including the furniture, files, and records, were moved here from the Law Building in Charlotte and are now installed in the basement of the Library. Mr. Jackson and Mr. McGill will handle the office part of the work, which includes the sending out of literature, receiving and answering letters, and the keeping of records for the rest of the campaign. They will be assisted by Miss Marie Gregg, who has been serving as office secretary and who will continue her work here.

The total amount subscribed to date is $457,188.00, leaving $142,812 to be secured before reaching the goal of $600,000. Mecklenburg County went over the top in fine style last Friday by completing its quota of $100,000 after an intensive campaign conducted by the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce. The final $500 was pledged by Mr. F. B. McDowell, a loyal alumnus of the college and the donor of our new bell. Dr. Martin issued a statement on Friday afternoon thanking the people of Mecklenburg County, and especially the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce and its secretary, Mr. Kuester, for their loyal support and faithful work in the campaign, and telling them that the work on the new buildings will soon be started.

So far eleven counties of the State have responded to the call of a Greater Davidson and have completed their quotas of the fund and twenty-eight others have pledged more than half of their quota. It is the plan of Mr. Lockhart, the campaign director, to conduct campaigns in the near future in all the counties that have not completed their quotas. His immediate plans are for Guilford, Wake, Rowan, Union, and Robeson, all of which already have a good part of their portion subscribed. Mr. Lockhart is very optimistic as to the campaign, and says that with Mecklenburg, the home county of the college, over the top in the work, he believes that the other counties will soon respond with their full amounts.

TO DAD

Old Pal, if you don’t understand
The things that I may do,
Be merciful in what you think,
For I but follow you.
And if I slip a step, mayhaps,
Or lose sight of your track,
Remember, Dad, I follow on,—
It’s only strength I lack.
Remember, now is just the chance
To cheer me on my trip;
I pray you, speak a helpful word,—
Don’t watch with silent lip.
My road is long, my time is short—
Smile on me when you can,
As I tread the beaten ways,
And try to be a man.
And when I walk the crowded streets,
So far away from home,
I’ll always think of my Pal, Dad,
And know I’m not alone.
—C. B. W.

On a recent English test Jerry Fenton defined the following words thusly:
Tanagra—a female of tangerine species.
Figurine—a first cousin of the fig newton.
Muscatoon—a female musketeer and uncle of the spittoon.
Cathay—Davidson’s co-ed.
Barbarican—a she-barbarian.

The Parcher makes a motion that Jerry be awarded the lace umbrella for his marvelous exhibition of knowledge.

“The average flapper has a vocabulary of only 500 words.” It’s a small stock, but just think of the turnover!

FRESHMEN WILL DOFF CAPS ON MAY TWELFTH

Soon the flames will leap high toward the heavens, and around that great fire will be gathered approximately 200 Freshmen, in other words, every member of the Freshmen class. Every year marks a great celebration when every Freshman doffs his cap, casts it into the fire with a loving glance (because of the close relations existing between the two) and as the flames gently envelop it, many memories leap toward the sky, and soon the most treasured of treasures of the Freshmen class remains a heap of ashes. May twelfth will mark the event this year, and Freshmen are looking forward to this as the decrowning event of the entire year—a day never to be forgotten.

PERSONAL GLIMPSES
(By P. C. Henderson.)

R. H. Brown has recently joined the Delta Theta Chi Fraternity.
Prof. Locke Currie will take post-graduate work at Cornell next year.
Gene Witherspoon and Goat Lewis visited Greensboro over the weekend.
Those enjoying the hospitality of the infirmary last week were W. P. Brown, W. P. Kimzey, J. H. Davis, and D. H. Bethea.
A. V. Gibson spent Monday in Charlotte. He says that he likes to visit Charlotte often so that he can appreciate Mebane more when he goes home.

STRAW HATS!

We have them; also Panamas, Regal Caps, Hanes’ Underwear, Craddock Shoes.
Globe Clothing Co.
Knox Building

Offers New Line Of Men’s and Young Men’s Clothing and Furnishing Goods at Attractive Prices.

1 lot Young Men's Suits, made in the new brown and grey checks. Also in Blue Serge. Made in the new Sport and Norfolk Style. Special, $14.95 and $16.95

Men’s hand tailored suits. Made in all the new patterns and models. Regular $25.00. $19.95, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00

NEW STRAW HATS
Men’s and Young Men’s new straw hats. New shapes and straws. $1.50, $1.95, $2.95, $3.95

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS
Men’s fine dress shirts made in beautiful range of patterns. $1.00, $1.50, $2.50

MEN’S SUMMER UNDERWEAR
Men’s Summer Union Suits. 50c, 75c, 98c, $1.50

MEN’S TIES
New patterns to select from. 50c, 75c, 98c, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY
Men’s fine lisle sox. 25c and 35c
Men’s fine silk sox. 48c, 75c, $1.00

BELK BROS. CO.
The Home of Better Values