4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association.
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.
Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON .......... Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH ............ First Managing Editor
E. D. ELKINS ............ Second Managing Editor
R. M. HESTON ........... Assignment Editor
D. R. JONES ............. Athletic Editor
W. H. MAUZE ............ Alumni Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD ........ Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY ........ Assistants
SMITH, C. BARRINGTON, J. C. MIN, APPLEBY, McINTOSH, CLAUDE RA

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
COOPER ............... Business Manager
PRICE, J. H. E. WEEKS and W. J. ........ Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN ...... Office Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN .......... Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON ........ Asst. Circulation Mgr.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
McILWAINE, M. PRICE, R. Vice Pres.
McIVER, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
WALLIS, O. W.
CALE, W. EARLE, H. W.
GALLOWAY, W. I.
POMEROY, W. A.
LAKE, H. B.

With the new year comes the 1923 basketball season. Particularly since they made such a fine record for themselves last
year, we are looking at our Wildcat quintet this season with high hopes. As successful a year as the one
we had would be fine, but an even more successful one is the desire that comes to us all. Practice
is going on regularly and the squad is getting in trim. Let's all get out and boost for a winning
team.

Until we have to do without a good thing once or twice, we don’t realize how good it is. This
is certainly the case with the orchestra that has played for us at the movies so faithfully and efficiently during
the fall. The music has always added to a marked extent to the enjoyment of the pictures, and much praise
is due the players, especially when we realize that they have to go to a great deal of trouble and
often miss seeing the picture which they are as much interested in as we are. We all hope that nothing
will prevent them from continuing this spring the same entertaining playing that they did last fall.

OUR COACH

The three years we have had a coach who was as much, if not more, interested in advancing Davidson’s athletics
than any man who has held that position. We all certainly appreciate what Coach Grey has done toward building up
a better athletic organization here, and the attention he has given to turning out teams that were truly Davidson in
clean fighting spirit. We sincerely wish him a most prosperous future when he leaves Davidson.

Just before school closed for the Christmas holidays, we voted to give the Court of Control a chance to take
the place of all hazing until April. Quite a number seemed opposed to abolishing hazing, but were willing to take
this much of an advanced step. So far there has not been an opportunity to tell exactly how the Court
will succeed. It does seem, however, to have adjusted things, even this soon, better than they were before. This situation
puts upon all of us who are in favor of making this a permanent change a large responsibility. We are
certainly having our chance, as any who are against this may say. Further, the members of this Court are determined
to do everything to make it a success. Their first move after they were appointed showed that they meant business.
We can’t afford to let any criticism pass unnoticed. If it is unjust, we should prove that to whoever says
it. If just, strive to remedy the evil at once. Such action on our part will help a great deal
toward accomplishing our desired end.

EXAMS SOON

The holidays are just over and none of us have forgotten entirely about the pleasure of being at home, but
enough time has passed for everyone to have settled down and gone to work in earnest. Only about ten days
remain until exams come, and these spell success or failure to quite a number. With a rest of two weeks
from our school duties, we should all be refreshed and able to do better work and accomplish more during this
time than at any other. There are numerous pleasures that we would let interfere with our studying and doing our
work right. These probably tempt us more after a time of relaxation, but this time is really the best to
get rid of them. If we definitely put these things aside now at the first of the year, they will
gradually lose their danger and will not interfere with what we ought, and usually intend, to be doing. There are
a few also, who drop out each year after exams because of failure. For any who are talking or thinking
of doing this, and letting that hinder their work and have a bad influence on them, there is still a
fine chance to be saved from this mistake. Taking advantage of this time for hard work will help a great
deal toward accomplishing our desired end.

Use Your Time

Time is something of which there is only a limited amount. There is no limit to the amount of money
that we may make or spend, and there is none to the amount of air and light that we have
in this world—we may use all of these that we want. But there is a limit to time. There are
only 24 hours in the day and 60 minutes in the hour. No matter how much we may wish to
have more time to work or loaf, that is denied us. Another thing about time is that it never comes
back again. We may lose a golf ball one day and find it again the next, but not so with
time. An hour wasted is gone for good and there’s no recalling it. If we put things off unnecessarily we
rob ourselves of precious time. We have to do them when we ought to be doing something else. Examinations come
next week. We have some time now but the night before the exams there won't be much left. Now’s the
time to put out if you wish to do well on your examinations: not the last 10 or 12 hours
before the exam comes off. In the last place, if you don’t care about your own time, don’t rob the
other man of his. It’s as hard for him to study as it is for you. Think on these things.

A STARGAZER.

Do Take It

Just as evolution has been the dominant subject of discussion between evolutionists and non-evolutionists of late, it seems that R.
O. T. C. is a subject greatly argued by Davidson military enthusiasts and non-military enthusiasts. Both sides have some good
arguments, but too many of their arguments go in one ear and out the other, or possibly in one eye
and out the other. As a taker of the advanced R. O. T. C. course let me state some of
the chief direct benefits which I am securing from same, aside from the pay and commission connected with it. First
is the general knowledge attained. The advanced course does not, as many seem to think, develop war lovers. It abounds
with much information not directly related to warfare, which is almost essential to every well-educated man. Second, the direct contrast
with the military professors afforded. Most other classes are large, which prevents the accomplishment of the best work. In a
class of 40, each student derives one-fortieth of the professor’s attention, but in an advanced R. O. T. C. class
a much larger proportion of the professor's time is devoted to each individual. For instance, the five Juniors taking R.
O. T. C. are divided into two sections. Of course, this calls for more work than it would if the
classes were larger, but good is derived from anything in the same proportion in which time is devoted.Here is the
cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

to it. Third: "is the development of leadership derived from being placed in command of men, which is a more
valid element than most students realize. Aside from these many other advantages could be enumerated along with some disadvantages too,
it is true. In the opinion of many, the chief disadvantage seems to be that it requires a little work
at times, which many do not intend to encounter.

"PRO."

D: Figuratively Speaking

Driscoll (in Math class)—Now, do you understand it?
Freshman—I understand all you told me, excepting when them there roots come along in geographical procession.

GAMMA OF NORTH CAROLINA (Continued from Page 1)

short time. Elections to membership among alumni will be limited to those men who have been out of college at
least 15 years, and also students from the Senior class. The chapter is to be called, Gamma of North Carolina
Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. The charter members of this chapter are Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. E. F. Shewmake,
Dr. W. L. Porter, and Prof. W. W. Wood. Dr. W. J. Martin is president of the chapter and Prof.
W. W. Wood is secretary and treasurer. Phi Beta Kappa was founded December 5, 1776, at William and Mary College.
Davidson first petitioned in 1916 and the petition was granted at the last convention. Charters will also be granted this
year to other institutions and will be installed in the order that the charters were granted: Gettysburg College, Drake University,
Maine University, Davidson College, Oregon, and Cornell.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Climbing the Golden Stairs

Never mind the clouds, dear;
Never mind the rain.
Trust in God and look ahead,
The sun will shine again.
Singing after sadness,
Good health after pain;
Sow the seed and after a while
Comes the golden grain.
Never mind the wind,
Though it whistle loud and long.
Whistle up a tune yourself
And then break out in song.
Laugh away your troubles
And pray away your cares:
That’s the way, my sweetheart,
To climb the golden stairs.

She—Can you read lips?
He—Yes, by the touch system.—Ex.

Two Hebrew merchants met in the street.
“What’s this I hear?” said one. “You had a big fire at your place.”
“Oh, no,” said the other, “it isn’t going to happen until next week. But how about you? You’re insured, too,
aren’t you?”
“Yes, I carry both fire and hail insurance.”
“I can understand being insured against fire, but I didn’t know anybody could make it hail.”—Literary Digest.

Dr. Perry—“According to Milton’s idea of the Universe, where is hell, Godwin?”
Godwin, (awaking suddenly at the sound of his name)—“Here, sir.”

“Papa.”
“Yes, Willie.”
“I want a bicycle like Johnny’s.”
Silence.
“Papa.”
“What?”
“I was home last night when you came in and when nursie told you mother was out, and I saw—”
“Er—Willie, how much do bicycles cost now?”

“There’s nothing like combining business with pleasure,” said the tailor’s daughter as she lovingly wrecked the crease in her lover’s
trousers.

She—Are you single?
He—Do I look like twins?—Cento.

You’ve all heard about the Jane who was so dumb that she thought necking was a new kind of scarf,
but did you hear of the guy who thought the “Yanks” were a bunch of dentists?—Tech News.

Stage Manager—Now, ready; run up the curtain.
New Hand—Wot yer talkin’ about—run up the curtain; think I’m a bloomin’ squirrel?—Nichols News.

“You Yanks,” remarked my English friend, “Just make a fellow laugh. At first you say you’re on a boat And
then you shout, ‘We’re off.’”—Banter.

Grip—This breakfast food looks like sawdust.
Grab—Yes, it’s fine board we get here.

She—I can’t light this match, my shoe is too small.
He—Scratch it on your er—er—you better let me strike it—Ex.

The Judge (to prisoner)—“When were you born?”
Prisoner (sullenly)—“Wot do you care? You ain’t going to give me nothing.”

Freshman (at theater)—“Give me two seats in L.”
Ticket Seller—“Say, this ain’t Hades.”—Sandspur.

On Debating

“Student debaters are just beginning to get warmed up for the season’s numerous forays, and it therefore is seasonable for
Dr. H. A. Overstreet, of New York College, to make a few fitting remarks. The said remarks are printed in
one of the newsstand’s numerous offerings, and the general tone is such contests, rather than schooling students to be truth
seekers, train them to become skillful liars; instead of contending for a personal belief, the debaters often are required to
strain in every conceivable manner for a line of argument sufficiently false to pull the wool over the eyes of
judges and bring home the bacon. Dr. Overstreet likely would snort at the phraseology of this digest, yet we believe
we have expressed his thought as truthfully as necessary contraction and generalization will permit.”

The above is an extract from a recent editorial in the Times-Picayune. Just what Tulane’s debaters would say to this
indictment of all their kind would be interesting to know. Of late there has been criticism of the custom of
giving debaters letters, and it would seem to be adding a last straw that another critic has now arisen who
brands them as liars. It would not be surprising to find that the next persecutor of debaters will cause the
Olive and Blue orators to forsake the platform for their fists.

The Times-Picayune continues: “We would like to hear a debate between Dr. Overstreet and some other learned educator, disagreeing with
him, on the proposition: ‘Resolved, That college debates are beneficial to students rather than harmful.’ It would open an interesting
discussion of this subject of ‘truth seeking.’ Dr. Overstreet could tell us what devices the process requires—specifically—that will develop clear
and logical thinking, which is so necessary to truth finding. Many will contend that one of these instrumentalities is the
debate, and that it is one of the very best.”—Hullabaloo.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Coach Fetzer delightfully entertained the famous football team at a dinner last Tuesday evening. All the “D” men were present
except J. A. Shaw. Drs. Douglas and Arbuckle were also present. The team had broken training and proceeded to enjoy
the delicious repast without restraint. All left feeling that the season’s hardships had been rewarded.

Basket-ball Schedule

January 17—Lynchburg Athletic Club at Lynchburg.
January 18—W. and L. at Lexington.
January 19—V. M. I. at Roanoke.
January 21—Roanoke at Salem.
January 22—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
February 1—Guilford at Davidson.
February 2—Guilford at Charlotte.
February 25—Guilford at Guilford.
February 26—Elon at Elon.
February 27—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
February 28—Trinity at Durham.

With King, Hengeveld, and McAlister back and several new men showing up well, the prospects for a successful season are
good. The schedule is not completed, but the Virginia trip is settled. Games on the Hill with Wake Forest, Trinity,
and Carolina are pending. The team leaves Wednesday night for the Virginia trip.

Dr. J. W. Bradley, of Suchien, China, will speak at the “Y” meeting tomorrow night at 6:45. Doctor Bradley has
charge of a large hospital in China and tells of his experiences in an interesting manner.

The Freshman Improvement Medal in the Eumenean Freshman Society has been awarded to J. R. Boulware. At a meeting held
shortly before Christmas, the judges decided on Boulware, not, however, until after much deliberation.

The list of the names of the alumni and students of Davidson who have entered into some branch of active
service for their country has not yet been completed. We hear of new names almost every day and the men
are shifted so frequently that it is impossible to have a correct statement of their locations. Davidson is proud of
these men and delights to do honor to them but she is also proud of those men who are working
in their natural spheres, and are preparing for whatever the future may bring to them.

Ex-Governor Patterson, of Tennessee, and Mr. Horton, of the State of Washington, are to speak here under the auspices of
the Anti-Saloon League. It is hoped that this campaign of the League will wake up our officers and people to
the necessity of law enforcement. Superintendent Davis says that in this state-wide campaign by national speakers, it is the purpose
to give our people full information as to national prohibition and how it can be accomplished.

---
