THE ANNUAL NODE APRIL 19, 1923

DAVIDSON WILL ENTER TRIPLE TRACK MEET

Another track meet for Davidson this year, in addition to the four already scheduled! Four meets have been the limit
heretofore, but the record seems doomed to be broken by a fifth meet this season. Within the last few days,
Captain Gallaway has received a letter from Guilford College proposing a triple meet, and no time is being lost to
put the meet on ice. The meet would be held on Sprunt Field, Saturday, April 28th, and would give the
student body a chance to witness their cinder packers lined up against opposition, and a chance to see what they
can do. Guilford proposes that Elon, Guilford, and Davidson be lined up against each other, and says that the object
of the meet is to create greater interest and enable the teams to get in excellent shape for the State
Meet at Raleigh. It is not certain that a triple meet will be held, but at least a dual meet
is assured. Guilford proposed the plan, Davidson has accepted, and Elon will probably do likewise. Even if Elon does not
accept, a meet will be held between Guilford and Davidson. No dope can be obtained on the track teams of
the Quakers and Christians. They are trying to forge ahead in this phase of athletics, and it is believed that
this triple meet will have its share in arousing interest in track work at Guilford and Elon. Davidson should be
able to win the meet, but a “dark horse” might appear among her opponents. Last year, three dual meets and
the state meet was the limit of the track schedule, but with this added triple meet this year, it indicates
that track work is gradually coming to the forefront on the Hill.

THE Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” BASEBALL SHOES GLOVES MITTS BATS We sell the Spalding, Harry C. Lee, Wright & Ditson RACKETS
Also the Dayton Steel Racket We Restring Rackets Our Davidson Agency is THE COMMISSARY Myers Hardware and ATHLETICS

BLEACHER BULL

Weather prediction: April showers on Saturday (Elon game). Fair and warmer, Sunday and Monday; thundershowers Tuesday in time for the
V. P. I. game.

It's too bad that we couldn't “Baptize the Baptists” last week, but the rain did the work in fine style.

Alfonse and Gaston haven't got a thing on the way Covington and Alford bowed politely and urged each other to
take that infield fly in the State game. A retiring disposition is useful sometimes, but not on the baseball diamond,
and as a result, the ball dropped between them. However, no harm was done for State couldn't score that inning.

Clemson seems to have a wonder pitcher this year. Saturday he twirled a one-hit game against Furman to add to
a couple of three-hit contests he had already turned in. They say the big leagues want to get him and
we don’t wonder. Of course, he will pitch against the Wildcats.

Remember October 20th, fellows, and let's all be on deck to see Coach Buck's warriors frock V. P. I. properly
this time. The Gobblers got a good idea of Wildcat fight and pep in football last fall. Let’s give them
a big enough dose Tuesday to last them through the summer.

One out of four isn’t such a promising start on the diamond but we don't believe that that is a
true measure of the Wildcat's strength. We don’t want to offer any alibis, but one run beat us with State,
one inning beat us with Carolina, and one pitcher, Shields by name, was just a little too good and managed
to beat us in the first Oak Ridge game. Some people can’t see it that way however. In an Associated
Press article, the teams in the state are rated as follows:

Won Lost Tied
State 8 0 1
Trinity 4 0 0
Wake Forest 4 2 1
Carolina 2 1 0
Guilford 3 3 0
Oak Ridge 1 1 0
Davidson 1 3 0
Rutherford 0 1 0
Catawba 0 3 0
Elon 0 5 0

Some people have yet to learn that you can’t count on comparative scores or statistics unless an even number of
games have been played and everybody has had a chance at the weak teams. Lenoir is rated above Carolina, but
could they come anywhere near beating them? State and Trinity deserve their places, but about the rest, we wonder.

Red McComb forgot to take his bathing suit to Raleigh and so he couldn’t enter the two-mile swim. It was
a pity because he was so anxious to get in on the distances.

Clemson put the skids under both North Carolina and Georgia in track last week. Clemson doubled North Carolina’s score, and
Carolina is admitted to have as good a team as N. C. State, and N. C. State beat Davidson 83-38,
and Davidson meets Clemson here Friday. ’Nuf sed.

BASEBALL AVERAGES
AB R H BA PO A E FA
Marrow 1 1 1 1.000 0 0 0 .000
Sorrels 4 0 2 .500 1 3 1 .800
Boushee 8 1 3 .375 1 13 0 1.000
Vance 15 3 5 .333 3 0 0 1.000
Hunter 3 0 1 .333 0 4 1 .750
Alford, F 16 4 5 .312 1 0 0 1.000
Crawford 14 1 4 .285 1 1 0 1.000
Alford, S 14 0 3 .214 7 9 4 .800
Richards 12 0 2 .167 11 8 0 1.000
Brice 15 1 2 .133 25 3 3 .904
Covington 16 2 2 .125 18 1 0 .900
Wells 4 0 0 .000 2 0 0 1.000
McKay 10 1 0 .000 5 7 3 .800
TOTAL 132 14 31 .295 108 56 13 .842

If you see a Davidson lad turning red about his face when he takes his watch and looks at it,
there’s a woman in the case.

WILDCAT RACQUETEERS FACE HARD PROGRAM

About two weeks ago, Coach Joe Whitener chose ten of the most likely tennis aspirants, which formed the Varsity squad.
Now, after ten days of grueling matches, the ten have been cut down to the necessary foursome which will, in
all probability, comprise the Davidson tennis team for the Spring of 1923. The four lucky survivors are Hugh Bradley (capt),
Harry Price (Manager), T. F. Staley, and Mac Beall. Some mighty strong opposition had to be overcome, however, before Henry
Morris, Fraser, and Bill Murray were eliminated. The scoring of the seven highest men in matches won and lost are
as follows:

Won Lost
Hugh Bradley 6 0
Harry Price 5 1
T. F. Staley 5 2
Mac Beall 4 2
Henry Morris 2 4
Fraser 2 4
Bill Murray 1 1

Morning and afternoon now the team may be seen out on the courts practicing.

On Your Way Through A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now wearing, just notice this: If they fit well at just three
spots—the heel, the instep, and the toes—they will not look old for a long time. If they do not fit
well there, they will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix Shoes next time. See howWell,
they fit and how long they last. J. M. HENDRIX & CO. “THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES” GREENSBORO, N.C. SAMPLES
DISPLAYED AT 302 WEST.

With every stroke imaginable, trying to get in will be played at Davidson Friday afternoon, April 20th. Clemson has the
reputation of putting out a tennis team that makes a strong bid for the South Carolina championship every year. They
are especially strong in the body singles, and they may have someone who can make it interesting for Hugh Bradley.
Come out the 20th and see.

It is encouraging and gives the Wildcats reason to believe that Captain Hugh Bradley, Harry Price, Mac Beall, and T.
F. Staley have all shown that they are fully capable of stepping into Curtis Ormand’s shoes as Hugh's partner in
doubles. The schedule of matches arranged for this Spring will give the Davidson racqueteers a chance to show their superiority
in three states. The following colleges will be played: Clemson at Davidson, V. P. I. at V. P. I., April
24. V. M. I. at V. M. I., April 25, Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, April 26 (Pending). Univ. of
Va., at Charlottesville, April 27. State Meet, May 4 and 5, place undecided.

DAVIDSON SPEEDSTERS TO TAKE ON CLEMSON April 20

Davidson's cinder packers are slated to meet Clemson's crack track team next Friday, April 20th, on Sprunt Field, in the
first home performance of the season. Handling the South Carolina aggregation will be Davidson’s big job, and if Coach Grey's
trackmen can outpoint the Tigers, the decisive defeat administered by N. C. State last week can in a manner be
overlooked. State’s decided victory over Davidson last week put an awful crimp in the Red and Black aggregation’s 1923 prospects,
but it is hoped that matters can be evened up next Friday when they meet the Clemson Tigers in the
local backyard.

Clemson has made a great start in track this season, and if the good work is kept up, will be
one of the strongest contenders for first honors in this year’s S. I. A. A. meet. In the first meet
of the season, the Tiger trackmen trounced the University of Georgia 76 to 36, and last week in a triangular
meet with the University of Georgia and North Carolina, the Clemsonians scored just a little less than the combined scores
of both opponents. Davidson's record stands, won one, lost one. Davidson opened the season with a close win over South
Carolina, and last week in the worst weather in which a meet could be held was beaten by State 88
to 38. Both meets in which Davidson has entered this season were held in windy, rainy weather, and it is
believed that, with the weather permitting, the best efforts of the year will be had against Clemson in the coming
meet. The clash with Clemson is an annual affair, and as Clemson has always furnished the most formidable opposition, Davidson's
team will be glad of the chance to give Clemson all they have as the meet comes off. Davidson's chief
hopes lie in the field events. Streibech and Gracey should be good for several points in this department, and the
Red and Black weight men are not weak. With these men holding their own, and Captain Gallaway back into form
on the middle distances, Clemson should receive considerable trouble at least.

CHANGES EFFECTED IN MANAGERIAL STAFF NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

The resignation of A. M. Hillhouse as football manager, subsequent to the student body presidency, has called for a general
shake-up among the athletic managers for next year. All of the advance dope as to the strength of the various
college teams in the state will retain the state championship in the student body elections. These changes are effected by
the Athletic Council and are in accordance with the student body elections. W. Z. Bradford is promoted to the football
managership, while J. Smith receives the position of manager of basketball. Bradford was runner-up to Hillhouse in the election for
football manager, so he falls in line for the position upon Hillhouse’s resignation. In the election for basketball manager, Smith
was runner-up to Bradford in the basketball election, and so receives the position left vacant by the transfer of Bradford
to football manager. Both of these men have served as excellent assistant managers and will handle the finances in good
shape for the year 1923-24.

Among the galaxy of football stars who have honored the Davidson gridiron by their playing ability and their all-round sportsmanship,
none shines out more prominently than Lawrence Orr Hammett of Anderson, South Carolina, one of the best linesmen that Davidson
or any other college can boast and who was chosen to pilot the destiny of the hard-fighting team of 1920.
Coming to Davidson from Clemson with a brilliant record to his credit, “Gravy” Hammett soon proved himself an indispensable cog
in the Wildcat collection by his line playing ability. A consistent player in the line and a sure tackler, his
broad shoulders and fleet limbs were the factors in many brilliant victories for old Davidson. Consistent line work, bordering on
the brilliant many times, and a never-say-die spirit gave Hammett well-merited honors both at his Alma Mater and through all
the South Atlantic States. At the close of the 1920 season, he was slated by ten leading sports writers as
the best tackle in the South Atlantic States and without a peer as a linesman in the entire South. Of
the ideal build for a football player, with 180 pounds of brawn and brains, he more than held his own
in every game played, although he was outweighed many times. Ardent fans of the Red and Black rejoiced to hear,
“Hammett’s headgear is off—watch out!”, for they knew that there was one place in the Davidson line that would never
be broken through and there would be some real tackling to watch. “Gravy” was down under punts with the fleetest
of the ends and rarely ever failed to down the receiver in his tracks. He was an adept at breaking
up aerial attacks and on the offense he could plunge into the heaviest line and make a hole for his
back to slip through. The Davidsonian of November 19, 1920 says, “Hammett broke through the lines of Carolina time after
time.”

A certain professor to Walthall and fair one in swing on porch during Junior Speaking—Mr. Walthall, why don’t you go
in by the fire? Walthall—I’m by the fire now, doctor. Professor—Why don’t you get closer then?

Ted Jones says that a great many girls say “No” at first, but like the photographer, they know how to
retouch their negatives.

Make good as salesmen because—
They have natural training.
They know how to think and act quickly.
They understand what it is to “fight through.”
