THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

EDITORIAL STAFF
L. D. ELKINS, Editor-in-Chief
W. Z. BRADFORD, Managing Editor
C. M. S. McILWAINE, Asst. Managing Editor
W. M. COX, Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE, Asst. Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN, Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY, Athletic Editor
J. A. LAKE, Editor
W. M. HESTON, Peanut Parcher Editor
O. J. ALLISON, Editor

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. TICE, Business Manager
P. J. STORY, Circulation Manager
ASSISTANTS
W. H. CROMWELL, Subscription Manager
G. A. McCLAIN
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WALTHALL, D. B., Pres.
CALHOUN, M. P.
MONK, C. F.
WHARTON, D. B., V-Pres.
EARNEST, J. R.
POMEROY, W. L.
PATTON, J. H., Sec'y-Treas.
GREEN, J.
ROGERS, G. D.
ALLISON, O.
HURD, ?
SELSER, J. M.
AUSTIN, JAC
McMILLAN, J. A.
SMITH, B. H.
BROWN, W. P.
MOORE, W. H.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

“GO GET ’EM”

Two victories and a tie match in tennis, two games out of three in baseball, and a 3-0 debating victory
is not a discouraging summary for the last week of April. The Wildcat teams are on their toes—are you backing
them with the same spirit they are displaying? It isn’t a one-sided game—it’s a game meant for every man who
calls himself Wildcat. We've discarded the “Hold ’em, Wildcats!” It’s “Go Get ’Em, Wildcats!” Let’s never lose the “Go Get
’Em” spirit.

Buck Currie leaves Davidson in a short time, after five years spent in the village, as student, as friend, as
counselor, as coach and as a worthy exponent of Davidsonian qualities. His place will not be easily filled; his work
will seldom be surpassed; his smile and his resolute character will never be forgotten.

OUT IN THE OPEN

There is a one-horse sort of an organization that is supposed to be functioning on the campus at present. “Supposed
to be functioning” is correct! The men composing this group have shown themselves to be “off shoots of idiots.” They
are veritable shadows of men that are “non compos mentis.” In the first place they recognize no right of privacy.
Second, they have an antagonistic viewpoint and are envious of something they can never hope to attain. The various owners
of the benches on the campus do not care to have their seats marred with the insignificant symbols of “Epicurean”
painted on them. If this bunch of underhand workers would come out in the open and do their work they
might merit a little praise. As it is it looks as if they were trying to imitate some worthwhile order
such as the “Golden Fleece” at the University, yet the consensus of opinion is that it is a mighty poor
imitation. You men that compose this group brace up and come out in the open before you have cause to
regret it.

(Signed) A. Stoic.

BETTER CHEERING

What of the way we choose our cheerleaders? Have you ever thought that possibly the most capable men were not
leading this particular Davidson activity? And what of the importance of having the right men in these important places? Have
you ever thought that there is ample room for improvement in the cheering system and in the cheering itself here
at Davidson? Surely there is a better way of putting the right men in these places, and it is not
in the spirit of criticism but in the hopes of bettering a system already working well for the furtherment of
Davidson spirit that this suggestion is submitted.

Davidson has stepped into the front rank among the schools of the nation where an R. O. T. C. unit
is maintained. As a result of the recent inspection at the hands of the Fourth Corps Area officers, the local
unit has been included in the list of distinguished colleges. It is true that Davidson is not a military school
in any sense of the word. It is a school of preparedness—preparedness for service to the nation in time of
crisis, as well as pursuits of life. The maintenance at Davidson of a military organization, merits honorable recognition in the
higher military circles, is one of many indications that the Presbyterian college is filling her place in the field of
preparation.

The R. O. T. C. has its place in the nation-wide movement to “win the world from war.” The old
pacifist idea that this organization was founded to promote warfare and international hostility has been abandoned even by the “peace
at any cost” element. There is no organization in the nation which does more for the prevention of war.

Thursday, May 3rd.
8:30 P. M.—Davidson vs. Elon, at Elon (baseball).
7:15 P. M.—Eu. Society.
Track team leaves for State Meet at Chapel Hill.
7:30 P. M.—Phi. Society.

Friday, May 4th.
Baseball team returns from State trip.
Preliminaries of State Track Meet at Chapel Hill.
10:00 P. M.—Reporters Club.

Saturday, May 5th.
Finals of State Track Meet at Chapel Hill.
7:15 P. M.—Movies.

Sunday, May 6th
10:00 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A. M.—Ministerial Band.
11:00 A. M.—Church. Communion Service.
1:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Class.
3:30 P. M.—Sunday School.
6:15 P. M.—Evening Service.

Monday, May 7th.
Baseball team leaves for Virginia trip.

Tuesday, May 8th.
3:30 P. M.—Davidson vs. University of Virginia at Charlottesville (baseball).
7:10 P. M.—Pandemic Society.
8:00 P. M.—Metropolitan Society.

Wednesday, May 9th
3:30—Davidson vs. V. M. I. at Lexington, Va. (baseball).
9:30 P. M.—Bible Classes.

Wildcat Racqueteers Return From Victorious Trip
(Continued From Page 1)

To the anxiously awaiting students of V. P. I., we are glad to report that a splendid impression was made
on the Davidson representatives. At four o’clock that afternoon hostilities began out on the courts, and began rather disastrously for
Davidson, who dropped three of the four single matches. Davidson had to have both double matches to tie the count.
The count was tied.

Glimpses of the forthcoming issue of the Davidson College Magazine will have a repleteness of sonnets, songs, and stories, according
to the statement of Editor-in-Chief Cooper. Many new contributors and an abundance of the very best type of contributions necessitate
a greater number of pages than has ever appeared since the very birth of this organ which fills an indispensable
place among the literary work on the campus. The readers are promised some good entertainment of a diversified nature in
the issue which has already gone to press and soon will appear.

An added interest in this issue is the publication of four one-act plays written by members of the Dramatic Club,
among them being the plays enacted by the club during Junior Speaking. E. T. Woolfolk and Harry K. Russell present
two rattling good plays, one a farce of present-day life, and the other of a more serious nature. “Uncle Tommy’s
Harem,” by W. F. Gallaway, is a scream from start to finish. The short stories are up to the usual
standard of the D. C. M. and come from newcomers to the field of Davidson literature. “Music,” by J. Elliott
Haney, is well developed and is modeled on the mystery stories of Poe. “At the Sign of the Sturgeon’s Head”
is a story play reminiscent of the stirring days of the Revolutionary War. It combines both history and a good
plot. “Love's Labor Lost,” by Conrad Frederick Smith, is a story of country life that incorporates much subtle humor along
with the two main characters. Taken as a whole, this issue of the D. C. M. should present the best
array of fact and fiction that has ever appeared from the pens of Davidson writers. It is gratifying to the
editors to see that more and more of the students are taking interest in the work of the magazine and
are contributing to it more freely.and for the spread of the “Peace on earth, good-will among men” doctrine. It deserves
your support.

But of whose ability as cheer leaders nothing is known, why not hold a tryout each year and let the
men best adapted for the work hold the honors and wear the megaphoned D’s for a while? There would be
a good response to a call for “try-outs” for cheer leaders and those who are naturally adapted to the job
and who are experienced would come into the work they can naturally do better. In a few years, a strong,
peppy, cheer-leading corps could be built up. This system works well in a number of Southern colleges where the spirit
runs high like Davidson’s, and should work better here where spirit is a natural thing to be built on rather
than a thing to be created and maintained.

Here's a good job for the D Club to put over with the help of the Athletic Association. How about
better cheering for Davidson spirit next year?

Both the first and second teams won their matches without the loss of a set. Scores: Bradley won from Gish,
7-5, 6-8; Price lost to Rogers, 6-2, 6-3; Staley lost to Finch, 8-6, 5-7; Beall lost to Jones, 6-4, 7-5,
1-6, 3-6; Bradley and Staley won from Gish and Rogers, 6-2, 6-3; Price and Beall won from Finch and Jones,
6-4, 7-5.

The connections between Blacksburg and Lexington barely gave the team time to reach the V. M. I. grounds in time
for the match. This schedule, however, had one advantage, namely, no time to lounge around and get nervous waiting for
the match. And so, out of the cars, onto the courts, and before supper, a complete victory annexed was the
order of the afternoon at V. M. I.

In the three singles matches without a great deal of trouble, Hugh Bradley found a real opponent in Seemans. Seemans
has had the advantage of playing with National champions for several summers. He used a peculiar chop stroke which was
very effective and pushed Hugh to the limit if he had any intentions of winning. Hugh’s serve was working well,
however, and he finished up the match in fine style, taking the last two sets, 6-2, 6-3. Only one doubles
match was played, Price and Beall proving the stronger team. Scores: Bradley won from Seemans, 5-7, 6-2, 6-3; Price won
from Kellog, 6-8, 1-6, 6-2; Staley won from Moore, 6-1, 6-3. Doubles: Price and Beall won from Kellog and Gwathney,
6-1, 3-6, 6-2.

The invading Wildcats left their sleeping quarters at V. M. I. early the next morning and strolled over to the
Washington and Lee campus with high hopes of another shut-out victory. Washington and Lee, from all the advance dope handed
out at V. P. I. and V. M. I., was not supposed to have any record-breaking team. The Wildcats were
doomed to disappointment, however, if they were looking for an easy time, because Washington and Lee proved by all odds
the most dangerous opponent met on the trip. The strength of their team may be better estimated when one considers
the fact that the captain of their team last year only rated fourth man this year. A good crowd of
students were out to witness the matches, and they were royally entertained from start to finish, the victory being in
doubt until the very last.

In the singles, the honors were evenly divided, Washington and Lee’s second and fourth man winning from Price and Beall
respectively, while Bradley and Staley won their matches. Price had his man set and match point several times, but phenomenal
playing by Paine pulled him out of the hole and gave him the victory finally. T. F. showed his best
form of the season thus far and won in straight sets from Mason. Bradley's match with Burke was the treat
of the afternoon. Burke got the jump on Hugh by taking the first set, 7-5, but tired himself out so
much in doing so that Hugh came back strong in the second set and evened things up by winning easily,
6-2. The third set was a battle royal and ran well up in a deuce set. At one time, Burke
was leading with the score in games, 4-2, but Hugh climbed up and tied the score and thereafter held the
advantage until the deciding point was won, the final score being 8-6. Both players were exhausted after this grueling match
and needed about twenty minutes to recuperate.

Davidson needed both doubles to win the match. Bradley and Staley waded through their match without much trouble, giving up
only three games in the two sets. This victory left the responsibility of winning the match to Price and Beall,
who had the fight of their lives before they were declared the victors. Paine and Mason were too strong for
them in the first set but were forced to take the small end of the score in the two final
sets. The final game was deuced seven times before the game, set, match, and meet was won. Scores: Bradley won
from Burke, 5-7, 6-2, 8-6; Price lost to Paine, 6-4, 5-7, 3-6; Staley won from Mason, 6-4, 7-5; Beall lost
to Snively, 0-6, 4-6. Doubles: Bradley and Staley won from Burke and Snively, 6-1, 6-2; Price and Beall won from
Paine and Mason, 4-6, 6-3, 6-4.

For Sale: One good cigar stump, apply to Trawick. In good condition and guaranteed to be strong enough to walk.
