THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 18, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

EUMENEANS CHOOSE THIRD-TERM OFFICERS

On Thursday, January 11, the Eu. Society held its first regular meeting for the year 1923. This was also the first meeting which the Freshmen were permitted to attend as full members of the Eumenean Literary Society. Although a program had been prepared, it was voted to proceed with the election of third-term officers, and to have only the oration, which was given by J. I. Smith.

Hot and close were the races for the various offices. T. L. Fraser was elected president over Hugh Smith and W. H. Sharp after three ballots. A. M. Hillhouse was chosen vice-president with J. L. Green as secretary, and P. H. Biddle reviewer. The matter of a society pin was discussed, but it was thought advisable that more definite plans for the pin be submitted to the society for approval before a decision was made. Dunbar H. Ogden was chosen as the valedictorian of the society for the graduating exercises and L. D. Elkins was elected replier.

METROPHILIANS FIRST MEETING INTERESTING

The Metrophilians, in their first meeting of the New Year, had a decidedly interesting program. The subject for regular debate was, Resolved, That the former colonies of Germany should be returned to her as mandates under the League of Nations. Gracy and Thomas upheld the affirmative against Furchass and Guiton. The points were presented well, and the speakers showed good preparation. The judges decided three for the negative.

The subject for extemporaneous debate was, Resolved, That the Board of Control should formulate certain customs to take the place of hazing, these customs to be approved by the student body. Wharton, D. B., upheld the affirmative, while J. A. Thompson argued for the negative. The debate was full of pep all the way through, and the points presented well. The judges decided two to one for the affirmative. R. L. Price delivered a very interesting oration on “Gifts.”

GOOD ATTENDANCE KEPT UP BY PANDEINICS

As there had been no regular program prepared for this week, the meeting of the Pandeinics was, for the most part, given over to speeches in a lighter vein. After W. T. Baker had discussed the current events of the week, the president called on Regen to deliver an oration on the subject: “What Kind of a Place Is Davidson During the Holidays?” The feature of the program was a debate, Resolved, That men from Florida are better than those from Georgia. This was upheld on the affirmative by Guy Weeks and Shaw, who were opposed by Gamble and Hollingsworth on the negative. After a heated argument, the decision was rendered in favor of the negative. The attendance of the men of this society has been good in spite of the fact that basketball practice is going on. President Moore urges the members to make their record even better in this respect.

PHI SOCIETY HAS HUMOROUS PROGRAM

The Bear Walla High School held the regular meeting of its literary society in the Phi hall last Thursday night. Prof. Melchizedek Lowery, the principal of the school, gave a rousing opening speech that showed his wonderful command of words over three syllables. He then proceeded to introduce the speakers as they appeared.

The first speaker was Abner Splinterhead, who gave that grand old classic, “Casey at the Bat.” His sing-song chant carried the audience with him and every auditor was tense with emotion as they heard the story of the grand old hero of former years. Miss Timidity Homespun followed with a recitation. This little girl had the heartfelt sympathy of her audience when she forgot her part and retired in tears from the stage.

Next came a debate between Miss Purity Oats and Xenophon Backwoods for the affirmative and Miss Eliza Homely and Clarence Sticks for the negative, Resolved, That the horse is more beneficial to man than the cow. There was no quoting from obscure and doubtful authority. These young people know whereof they spoke from first-hand information. The hottest part of the argument was between Xenophon Backwoods and Clarence Sticks as to whether the fact that shoes could be made from cow-hide should be considered as a point in favor of the cow. Backwoods claimed that this was no real argument since shoes were a luxury and not a necessity anyway.

After the debate, Abner Splinterhead presented the medals and presents of the society. The first and most highly considered went to Mr. J. W. Baldwin as Most Eminent Supreme Orator. As Most Eminent Orator, but not Supreme, Mr. W. Glenn Houck received a picture of Mr. Baldwin with the hope that it might be a stimulus, an incentive, a spur, to drive him on to higher achievements.

SIGMA PI SIGMA HEARS DISCOURSE ON RADIO

The honorary Physics Fraternity, Sigma Pi Sigma, held an important business meeting last Wednesday night in the Physics classroom. The object of this meeting was to lay plans for the future course of the fraternity. Due to the fact that there are so many men eligible this year, it was necessary to make some changes in the present constitution. A committee, which was appointed at a previous meeting for this purpose, reported and practically the entire time was spent in discussing the revisions to be made.

Several papers were to have been read but due to the lack of time only one, The Manufacture of Vacuum Tubes for Radio Transmission, was presented. N. R. Currie prepared this discourse, which is a very timely subject since the fraternity is planning to install a radio set during the exams. This will certainly prove of invaluable aid to them.

The chapter roll is very large now and has five members of the faculty on it. These are: Dr. J. M. Douglas, Prof. J. L. Douglas, Prof. W. W. Wood, Prof. L. M. Currie, and H. M. Grey. There are seven Seniors and eight Juniors. The Seniors are: R. M. Brice, S. R. Sloan, N. R. Currie, H. H. Smith, C. F. Wildman, M. P. Calhoun, and R. M. McGirt. Out of the Junior class, the men on the roll are: R. M. Carr, I. M. McKellar, E. E. Boushee, A. C. Keels, W. Z. Bradford, R. H. Smith, G. M. Ford, and C. V. Brown.

FRESHMAN CLASS ELECTS LEADERS FOR THE YEAR

The election of Freshman class officers was held Saturday night, January 13th in Shearer hall. The student council's nominations for president were as follows: Flake Laird, E. K. Regen, Sappenfield, Tom Baker, and McMillan. The first ballot gave...Sappenfield and Regen had the biggest totals. Sappenfield was elected by a good majority on the second ballot. Nominations for vice-president were made from the floor and included the following: McMillan and Regen. McMillan was elected on the first ballot. Jack Miller, Franklin, Regen, Bob Johnson, and Houston were nominated for secretary and treasurer. Houston was accorded the plurality and the office. Sam Davis, president of the student body, Leonard Dick, head of the Court of Control, and Faison, president of the Junior class, were present and presided over the meeting.

PROMPTNESS URGED IN PAYMENTS TO ANNUAL

An addition was recently made to the Annual staff in the person of R. U. Woods. He has been appointed to assist in the soliciting of advertisements for the Annual. He is an excellent man for this position as he has been in business in Charlotte for some time and is well known to the advertisers of that city. Business Manager McLeod requests that all clubs and organizations have the money ready when it is called for. The Annual cannot go to the publishers until all the money is turned in and any delay in paying up will greatly delay the publication of it. The staff is straining every nerve to make the 1923 Annual the biggest and best that has ever been published at Davidson and if all continues to go well, they will succeed.

CHRISTIAN RELIGION IS A REASONABLE SERVICE

At the usual Sunday morning service, Doctor Richards used as his text the last part of Romans 12:1, “Your reasonable service.” Many times, in ignorance, man has taken objects or persons as gods, and around these has formed a religion. Man may outgrow some of these religions. As his intelligence increases he makes new demands on his religion, and if it is not able to supply that which is necessary, he gets another. Man demands that his religion be practical, one of service, and that it be reasonable. The Christian religion meets all these demands. It is no sham. Christianity is practical. Nothing could be of a more practical nature than the Sermon on the Mount and the 12th chapter of Romans. It has not been a religion of service, however, in practice. People have tried to keep religion and private life separate. They have gone about seeking only for personal gain and letting service to their fellow men go. This cannot be true of Christianity for even its founder washed the feet of His disciples. Christianity is a reasonable religion and not one which appeals to ignorance. It does not demand of those that follow that they follow the guidance of any human. Christianity does not reduce all its teachings to a plane where they can be seen by man’s reason, for if man could see it he would say, “It is no higher than I.” Since man cannot see through the Christian religion it must come from God. Doctor Richards closed his sermon by saying there is nothing unreasonable about the fact that Christ is coming again to claim his own, and that He calls on us to present our bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable unto God, which is our reasonable service.

JOHN GREY IS LEADER OF NEW UNION BAND

The Davidsonian erroneously stated in the January 11th edition that the following had been elected as officers of the Union Band: President, M. P. Calhoun; vice-president, McBryde; treasurer, H. Price; and secretary, A. P. Hudgins. These are the officers of the Volunteer Band, which is governed separately from the Ministerial Band. The new Ministerial Band officers are: President, John Grey; vice-president, A. C. Wildman; secretary, P. B. Freeland; and treasurer, H. K. Russell.

PROFESSOR GOLDIERE ADDRESSES UNION BAND

Conservation in Religion was the subject discussed by Prof. A. V. Goldiere at the union meeting of the Volunteers and Ministerial students last Sunday. His talk was unique and to the point. He first emphasized how pleasure-mad the world has gone. The mass of humanity, craving for worldly things alone and being fed on evolution theories and other anti-Bible doctrines, requires conservatism in religion more than ever before. The tendency of some preachers to deliver humanitarian sermons does not result in genuine conversions, but merely makes so-called fashionable churches. Whereas, on the other hand, pastors who exhort the people in the name of pure religion alone, regardless of their probable loss of popularity, are really accomplishing things for God. His talk was concluded by a plea for the practice of conservatism in religion, and for service to God. John Grey, president of the Ministerial Band, was leader of the meeting.

The Ministerial Band members have been divided into nine prayer groups by J. C. McJunkin, chairman of the devotional committee. They are urged to meet for daily prayers.

Now is the time to be thinking about men you would like to see at Davidson next year. Two things you can do:

FIRST: Appraise the man.
SECOND: Turn in his name at the Dean’s office when requested.

LET US REPAIR YOUR SHOES
We Double Their Life
Electric Shoe Shop
Davidson, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

DC Pipes are certainly a man’s smoke. They bring the smokejoy which every man seeks. It’s in the mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking or burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workmanship and design. Select several shapes today at any good dealer’s. Smoke a cool one every time.
Wm. DEMUTH & CO., NEW YORK
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES

Prices you can afford to pay
Opened up a case of Mrs. Duke's Mayonnaise this morning and could not but think of you fellows for it's a rare spread for a sandwich. Exams will call for a lot of study—you'll get mighty tired and hungry about eleven bells. You'd be surprised how much better a little snack would make you feel. It would be heap-cheaper if you would drop in and let me fix you up with the "fixings" for your life-savers—and they'll taste better.
Mr. Stewart of the Things to Eat