DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer Today—1 Page

BOND ISSUE PROVIDES CIVIC IMPROVEMENTS

Bonds for extensive improvements in the town of Davidson were put on the market in the past few days and bids were sent in by several prominent bond concerns. At a meeting of the town commissioners on March 22nd, Mayor Hamilton awarded the contract to Weil, Roth and Irving, Cincinnati, Ohio, whose bid was a premium of $600 on the amount, $120,000, and interest at the rate of 5% per cent. The nearest bid to this was only $20 under on the premiums and the rate of interest was the same. The issue is to provide for the extension of water mains to be supplied from a group of tube wells to be sunk west of the town; sewerage and lighting system, and a continuation of street improvements. In connection with the latter, surveyors are here now representing Mees & Mees, civil engineers of Charlotte, making a survey of Main Street. W. H. Booker, of Charlotte, and Thomas W. Swinson have oversight of the work.

Track Time Trials Bring Forth Several New Stars

(Continued from Page 1)

Events the greatest trouble is to develop a first-class broad jumper. Lindawood looks good for many points in the weight events and Gracy has shown his versatility by entering all the other field events. There are five men in school who can clear ten feet in the pole vault, so there is little need for worry there. In the high jump, Calhoun and Gracy are getting the highest and will push other jumpers in the state to the limit. Gracy, McCombs, and Lindawood have each tossed the javelin beyond the 150-foot mark, so the Wildcats are well fixed there. The two weakest places on the team are to be found in the low hurdles and broad jump. Several new men, Mallory, Calhoun, Davis, and others, have recently come out for these events, and Coach Grey hopes to find some good men before the first meet.

Belk Bros. Co. Clothing Department

Easter is almost here and you will want to come out in a new suit. We have a very complete line of Men's and Young Men's Suits from which to select. Made in all the newest models and patterns at $19.95, $25.00, $29.50 & $35.00.

NEW FELT HATS

We are showing a beautiful line of Men's and Young Men's felt hats. All the newest shapes and colors, at $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, $5.95.

MEN’S FINE DRESS SHIRTS

The new things in men’s fine dress shirts are here. All the newest patterns and materials, including the new Krinkletex Cloth. Big range of patterns to select from, 98c, $1.50, $1.95 and $2.95.

NEW EASTER TIES

We have on display the new things in Easter Neckwear. All the newest shapes and patterns. 50c, 79c, 98c and $1.50.

MEN’S FINE HOSIERY

Men’s lisle thread sox. Colors, black, navy, grey. 25c and 35c. Men's fine silk sox, all colors. 48c, 75c and 98c.

Belk Bros. Co. THE HOME OF BETTER VALUES

DRAMATIC CLUB OFFERS ONE-ACT PLAYS

DURING TOWN NEWS

THE SPRING SPEAKING

Mrs. Wilson McConnell has been quite sick for a few days, but is now recovering. The scene is laid in a living room of a New York apartment. Mrs. W. J. Martin and Miss Eloise Martin will spend the Easter holidays in Charleston, S. C. A Christian Slave, a Turkish tragedy, by H. K. Russell, will be the second play. The audience will be carried away from the life of the metropolis to the faraway land of the Turk, the scene of Russell’s play being H. J. W. MacConnell being elected chairman of Peace Institute, is spending the Easter holidays with her mother. Mrs. C. M. Richards has returned home from a two weeks visit in Savannah, Ga. Miss Thies, of Charlotte, was the weekend guest of her cousin, Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies. Miss Norfleet, of Winston-Salem, will be the guest of Miss Jean Martin during Junior Speaking. The following will attend the Easter celebration of the Moravian church in Winston-Salem next Sunday: Dr. and Mrs. Hood, Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle, Miss Mary and Lizzie Young, Miss Steele, Mrs. N. T. Smith, Bill Baker, Henry Smith, and Gettis Sill. Doctor Hood and Doctor Arbuckle were the guests of the Mooresville Rotary Club Thursday evening. Miss Bonnie Shelton, of Cooleemee, spent the weekend with her mother. Mr. F. L. Jackson was in Greenville during a part of last week. Mrs. Lola Johnston, of Winston-Salem, was in Davidson for a short while during the past week. She motored over from Winston Friday afternoon. Mrs. Lola Johnston, formerly of Davidson, now of Winston-Salem, spent Friday in this town. Doctor Martin and Prof. A. Currie attended the College Association in Greensboro last week. Miss Eunice Sloop of Mooresville, is the guest at the home of Mrs. Barnes. The Men’s Club of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte put on a men’s program last week. Prof. A. Currie made an address and Messrs. Wolfolk and A. M. Martin rendered their Gallagher-Shean act. A new fireproof roof has been put on two college dwellings, those occupied by Dr. J. W. McConnell and Dr. J. M. McConnell. Miss Mary Lafferty has opened her home on Main Street after a winter’s absence. Leopold Chambliss, ’17, was a visitor on the hill last week. Mrs. Trawick, of Buena Vista, Va., mother of M. W. and F. B. Traywick, was the weekend guest at the home of Mrs. J. M. Douglas. Mrs. J. W. MacConnell is president of the reorganized auxiliary of the American Legion. The ladies have been finishing things for the new home ofThe Legion in the recently completed business block. Wednesday evening Mrs. E. J. Erwin delightfully entertained at an Easter Egg hunt in honor of her son Phiefer and daughter Gardiloch. Reports are that Mrs. James Shumaker, who recently underwent an operation at the Mercy-General hospital in Charlotte, will be home the last of this week. The annual meeting of the deacons of the Presbyterian church recently resulted in Dr. the board, Prof. W. W. Wood, treasurer of benevolence, and Dr. J. R. Withers, treasurer of current expenses.

The Thelemites met last Friday evening with Mrs. Hearn. A discussion of the program for the coming year was brought up. Miss Ellenwood read an interesting paper on her visit to the Bahamas. The Program committee consists of Miss Mary laid in the province of Turkestan. The evening will be brought to a fitting close with Uncle Tommy's Harem, a collegiate farce. The author, W. F. Galloway, has already proven his ability in poetry and short story writing and in this collegiate farce shows his ability along dramatic lines in study of Professor Lawton. During the few remaining days, Prof. E. J. Erwin will put the finishing touches on the dramatic artists before their final appearance Friday night. Much of the success of the plays is due to the uniting efforts of Prof. Erwin, who has been of invaluable aid to the authors and in producing the plays. E. T. Woolfolk is due much credit for his coaching. All of these plays will be published in the Dramatic Club’s Year Book which will appear at an early date. Due to the expense connected with the presentation of the plays, the Club has deemed it wise to charge fifty cents admission. All seats are reserved. The list of plays and characters is as follows:

1. by E. T. Woolfolk
CAST
GRAIG .................. E. T. Woolfolk
BORRVE ................. Mrs. Mooer
CAT ..................... J. A. Beaver
Elizabeth .............. Miss Dean Martin
Scene: Living room, New York apartment.

A CHRISTIAN SLAVE by H. K. Russell
CAST
Borzian, Captain of the guard ........ H. M. White
Kadmiél .................. J. R. Earnest
ROMENA ................. Miss Susie Brady
Rajah .................... W. T. Jones
Mledevah ................ H. K. Russell
Scene: Province of Turkestan.

UNCLE TOMMY’S HAREM by W. F. Galloway
CAST
Professor Thomas Lawton, P.H.D. .... W. F. Galloway
Edgar, his nephew ................... J. A. Lake
Achilles Agamemnon Brown .......... A. F. Martin
Halide Kaled Zin Bey ................ L. E. Austin

Cabaret at Gym Promises to Be Speaking’s Feature (Continued on Page 10)

6. Murmuring Zephyrs, Martinearly, Galli Curses, Shuman Hike, de Gogoslin
7. Pomponette, Air a Danser de Louis XV, Prof. Schuman Langhof, African Harpist.
8. Danse du Printemps, Mme. Anna Pablower.
9. Post Mortem Reflections, Prof. Liebesleid.
10. Grande Finale, Simpson Symphony Orchestra.

D. Paul Steele, while visiting one of his friends Sunday night, noticed a copy of Sinclair Lewis’ latest novel and asked, “Who's reading that book called Rabbit?” Young lady, looking at Reed Sloan: “Oh, who is that funny little fellow over there.” Fresh, Harrison leaving Math room: “Well, I certainly knocked 'em cold on that review.”

Young, Mrs. A. Currie, Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Dr. J. W. MacConnell and Prof. W. W. Wood

Debaters for First Meet (Continued from Page 1)
representatives, although new to the field of intercollegiate debating, are well worthy of the task which has been entrusted to them. In the last year Warren, Cox has forged steadily to the front as a speaker. As a member of the Pendenic Society he has won both the Fresh-Soph Debater’s and the Fresh-Soph declaimer’s Medals. Elkins, a member of the Eu has won both the Fresh-Soph and the Junior-Senior Debater’s Medals in his society and has become noted for his impressive delivery as well as logical argument. Hillhouse, another Eu, although not winning any society honors as yet, proved by his clearly arranged speech, in the preliminaries, that he is fully worthy of his place on the team. The preliminaries, held in the Phi Hall were of the highest type. Twelve men, seven Juniors, four Seniors and one Freshman took part. For more than two hours and a half the debate raged pro and con and it was not without careful consideration on the part of the judges that the team was decided upon. The men taking part, besides the members of the team were: W. P. Kimsey, Wallace Moore, Ralph Smith, Leroy Burney, C. E. Hodgin, A. H. Hollingsworth, and D. B. Walthall. The judges for the debate were: Doctors Sentelle, Porter, Shewmake and Arbuckle and Captain Hearn.

A number of Davidson people motored over to Concord Tuesday afternoon to attend the Davidson-Concord girls basketball game. The local quintet came home victorious.

PUBLIC SALES
We have purchased 122,000 pair U. S. Army Munson last shoes, sizes 5½ to 12, which was the entire surplus stock of one of the largest U. S. Government shoe contractors. This shoe is guaranteed one hundred per cent solid leather, color dark tan, bellows tongue, dirt and waterproof. The actual value of this shoe is $6.00. Owing to this tremendous buy we can offer same to the public at $2.95. Send correct size. Pay postman on delivery or send money order. If shoes are not as represented we will cheerfully refund your money promptly upon request.

National Bay, State Shoe Company
296 Broadway, NEW YORK, N. Y.

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE

People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Electrik Maid
BREAD PIES---CAKES---BUNS
“Taste the Difference”
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N. C.