THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1923

LISTEN! THERE'S ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW AWAITING YOU AT THE Alhambra

About the highest compliment you can pay a woman these days and times is to tell her she carries her rouge well.

In tossing the bold taurus have you ever stopped to think that being in love is like sleeping in a Pullman? No one can do it comfortably and some people can’t do it at all.

Pat Kimzey, from away back in the mountains around Brevard, N. C., was bragging about the fact that he had seen an eagle soar. Fresh Martin, from the pine hills of Arkansas, stated he could see nothing so wonderful about that. He never saw one yet that wasn’t up in the air about something.

As we feel when our roommate has an alarm clock and an eight o'clock class: “The bells of Hades go ting-a-ling-a-ling For you but not for me.”

J. I. Smith comes along with this one that a woman’s complexion is like a game of poker. At seven it’s “straight.” At 17 it’s a “flush.” And from then on it’s all a “bluff.”

In books are many lessons that we will never get out, and out of books there are far many more lessons that we will never put in them.

End off each meal with a bit of sweet in the form of WRIGLEY’S. It satisfies the sweet tooth and aids digestion. Pleasure and benefit combined.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT Bay Rum Norton Bros. Barbers Next to Post Office

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY PHONE 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

COUGHS Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors. VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

She lay in his arms and snuggled her head against his neck; a rush of emotion surged through her; tenderly he caressed her and she closed her eyes in delight. “Poor Kitty. Did I step on your tail?”

As a correlation to our talk Sunday:
1. North Carolina leads all other States in annual rainfall. There are 99 inches of rainfall of which Davidson contributes 98 per cent.
2. There are enough muddy walks in Davidson College which if put together would make the Amazon River look like Mooresville swimming pool.

A MERRY DRAMA In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of '26, who constantly craves information. It is our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters: “Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer. “Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Third THE TALE OF A TIE

Fresh (at dresser)—This tie looks like a relief map of the Rockies.
Mac—Why so, my hearty, why so?
Fresh—Why so? Look at it—enough wrinkles to keep Palmolive busy for a year.
Mac—So ’tis—’tis so. Remind me of a little ditty that I heard the other day; went like—
Bill—Say hold it, for—
Mac—(oblivious to all else)— Blest be the tie that binds Our collars in mutual love. Fashioned of Keyes Cloth, oh, so fine, Of wool and silken wove.
Bill—Now that you've finished with your eternal rhyming listen to a practical talk.
Fresh and Mac—Say on, say on.
Bill—Was down to Charlotte the other day and Mellon was showing ties of that self-same Keyes Cloth of which you sang so beautifully. Leaving all jokes aside it is some tie. Wool and silk, you know, so that wrinkling is impossible. The colors and combinations are good too. In fact an ideal tie—long-wearing and good-looking to the end and yet real neat looking. Next time I’m down there am going to set myself up to a couple of them.
Fresh and Mac—Lead on. (Adv.)

3. North Carolina is the wealthiest State in the South due to the fact that the average wealth per capita of the Davidson student body was left out of the statistics.
4. North Carolina holds the “put out” record of any State its size. Look at the “flunkees” and “bustees” from State, Trinity, Carolina and Davidson.

A great many girls say “no” at first; but like the photographer, they know how to retouch their negatives.

The Electric Light Shines Forth

I’m sore. For years I’ve been the butt of every petting joke. Whenever anybody says “Turn out the light,” the rest start to giggle. As long as the family is around I go big; as soon as they leave I’m about as useful as a Ford speedometer. If it wasn’t for me this would be a gloomy world after six o'clock, and yet college students think I was invented to plague them. I’m going to strike and refuse to go out at the next house party.

Evolution of Chivalry

Long years ago, when hoop skirts covered a multitude of shins, and beaver hats made man appear as though he was emerging from a sewer pipe feet foremost, man had a highly developed sense of chivalry. When he passed a lady on the street in those days, after she saw him, he demurely cast his eyes down. Now, however, he first glances down and then raises his eye to confirm his opinion. Plain this change of psychology, but, be- lieve me, there’s a reason.

If Goldsmith Were Living

When lovely woman stoops to circles And finds too late that men betray; What charm can soothe her melancholy? What art can wash her guilt away? Why she can start a breach of promise Suit, and gaining fame untold; Next she can go into the movies, And drag away a million cold.

FRESHMEN REQUIRED TO LEARN NEW SONGS

A meeting of the freshman class was held in Shearer Hall for the purpose of learning the song, “Old Ship ofZion.” The proposition to learn the song was furnished by the court of control, by Bevo Davis and Johnny Adams. The freshmen showed themselves eager to prove their spirit and pep. On Friday night they double lock-step. Saturday night, just before the game, the whole class came in together marching in double lock-step, singing “O Davidson.” Later they sang “Old Ship of Zion,” making the gym resound with the tune. The verses are new, relating to the athletic teams instead of the faculty. The honor of composing them goes to Bob McLeod. The new men have proven that they are true Davidson men by their pep and that they have the fighting Davidson spirit instilled in their blood.

VESPER SERVICES CONDUCTED (Continued from Page 1)

Following the opening songs, Bill Baker and Albert Hilhouse led in prayer. Doctor Crawford chose as his subject: “Christ's Life as a Twentieth Century Life.” He enumerated the characteristics of Christ’s life that go to make a life of today. “Christ lived an active life. While all around him there was laziness and indecision, Christ was always active. He was busy all the time. “A life that is not settled is lacking. Christ’s life was settled. He had a definite goal toward which he always worked. “Another great characteristic of Christ’s life was the bigness of it. He associated with all types of people, the rich, the poor, the young and the old, and was perfectly at ease with all. There was not a barrier between Christ and those with whom he associated. The man of the twentieth century who has not this virtue is missing a great part of life.” Here the speaker referred to Christ’s perfect ease while with the spotless Mary, again with the fallen woman, with the rich young ruler and likewise with the beggar at the gate of the city. “Christ was brave. He was courageous. He contained all the virtues of love and pity, but He knew when and how to use His power. He refused to compromise with the devil, but denounced him and thrust him aside. Again, he stood and received the blows from the mobs, when it would have been much easier to strike back. We need today men who are uncompromising, men who are willing to take their positions and not strike back until the time comes to strike, but men who can strike when the time is ripe, and who can strike hard. We need strong, courageous Christians—not sissies or brutes. We need the combination that is found in the life of Christ.” Following the closing song, Doctor Richards dismissed the meeting.

DAVIDSON MINSTRELS SLATED (Continued from Page 1)

The first to be favored by the minstrels on their trip. Making Spartanburg their first stop, the thirty-four talented youths will make their way to Converse College, where they will make merry before their fair audience. From there they will go direct to the Greenville Woman's College, in Greenville. The Sultan of Sarawak will be the second entertainment ever rendered on the stage of the beautiful auditorium of the Fine Arts Building, recently completed at this College. In Gastonia, the club will entertain the Senior Christian Endeavor Society, and the High School on Friday night. Home entertainment will be furnished the players at all of the above-mentioned places, and it is rumored that there will be an informal reception in their honor at Converse. The last entertainment of the trip will be given at the Strand Theater in Charlotte, Saturday night. The Sultan of Sarawak is universally conceded an exhibition of minstrelsy of the highest order, far exceeding anything of its nature ever produced at Davidson. It keeps the entire audience in paroxysms of merriment from the opening words, till after the curtains are drawn at the end of the last act. By theatrical connoisseurs, it is declared the peer of any five acts ever presented on Keith’s stage in Charlotte. Most of the credit for the excellence of the show is due to Professor and Mrs. Erwin, not little of it belonging to the latter, who has helped materially in every way. After the plans for this trip had been completed, the minstrels were invited to Columbia, S. C., to the High School and the Greensboro College for Women in Greensboro, N. C., to Anderson, S. C., and to Statesville. It will be impossible to include these places in the schedule, however, due to the shortage of time, according to Manager Windy Aiken.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Leadership — CHERO-COLA GRAPE-MELO ORANGE-MELO ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911
The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street

Charlotte's Merchants and Farmers National Bank

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
PIANOS
CHARLOTTE

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles