: THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

5. JESSE L. LASKY PRESENTS

MAY McAVOY
JACQUELINE LOGAN
GEORGE FAWCETT
MAURICE FLYNN
WILLIAM B. DAVIDSON

Admission 25c—Bring a Chair

WELL KNOWN PLAYERS CHOSEN FOR PARTS IN “SALOMY JANE” CAST

Jacqueline Logan, George Fawcett, and Maurice Flynn are Featured

The Days of ’49—When the stage-coach galloped into the muzzle of guns and the masks of quick-trigger men; when the Vigilantes were the law, and a rope and tree brought swift justice; when the West was a world of wild adventure. That's the setting of this vivid story by the greatest of Western writers, Bret Harte, which will be shown at the gym at 7:15 Saturday night.

Jacqueline Logan, a former Follies girl, plays the name role. Her love of the great outdoors particularly adapted her for this photoplay of the quaint humor and romantic life of pioneers in California in the days of '49. Many human touches of this romantic fabric are woven into the screenplay by George Fawcett, who plays the role of stage-coach driver. Maurice Flynn, Yale graduate and college athlete, takes the part of “The Man,” a stranger in the little mining settlement whose mission is unknown and who in a gripping tragedy becomes the sweetheart of Salomy Jane.

“The Man” is accused of holding up the stage-coach and is about to be led away to be hanged by the Vigilantes when Salomy Jane, moved by a strange impulse, kisses him goodbye. Red Pete, proven to be one of the hold-up men, is hanged but the stranger escapes. On returning to thank Salomy for her kindness, he meets an old enemy, Baldwin. In the fight, Baldwin is shot from ambush by another man. Salomy lends the stranger some of her father’s clothes that he may get out of the country. This leads Larabee, an enemy of Salomy Jane's father, to shoot at the stranger. Larabee is killed by a bullet from the stranger’s rifle. As he dies, he confesses that Baldwin, now dead, was Pete's partner in the stage robbery. The action is swift from start to finish. The supporting cast is excellent and includes such favorites as Charles Ogle, Louise Dresser, James Neill, and Clarence Burton.

DRAMATIC CLUB (Continued from page 1)

Rugio’s son bewails the fact that his sister's husband is to be a Cretin. "Why Pierrot!" A musical fantasy in four parts, is from a book and lyrics by Professor Erwin. Pierrot, the lover, was played by Watt McCain; Miss Dorothy Finlayson took the part of the Queen, Pierrette. G. D. Rogers portrayed the part of the wandering dancer. Misses Sibyl Binge, Eloise Martin, Sarah Wilson, Ted Dance, and F. R. Montgomery compose the chorus of dancers and singers, and Miss Ellen Black plays the role of the witch. W. W. Purdy and W. L. Hodgkin were the accompanists during the act. Professor Erwin was in charge of the direction of the plays, and to his work is due in no small measure the success of the plays.

“I want to be a giant for God.”—Billy Sunday.

Many Guests Visit the Hill Pan-Hellenic Week Fire is Plentiful on Hill During Festivities

The following young ladies were entertained at the different fraternity halls, celebrating Pan-Hellenic Week:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Dorothy Burney, Columbia, S. C., Converse College; Pete Farmer, Anderson, S. C.; Nancy Matthews, Spartanburg, S. C., Converse College; Gilder Wylie, Lancaster, S. C., Converse College; Faith Price, Charlotte, N. C.; Rachel Witherington, Faison, N. C., Converse College; Charlotte Milstead, Charlotte, N. C.

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Adelaide McAlister, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Elizabeth Simpson, Greensboro, N. C., Converse College; Mary Oeland, Spartanburg, S. C., Converse College; Alice Lentz, Salisbury, N. C.; Dorothy McNair, Wilmington, N. C., N. C. C. W.; Ethel Battle, Rocky Mount, N. C.; Katy Norwood, Salisbury, N. C.; Mildred Gill, Statesville, N. C.

Kappa Sigma: Misses Hannah Lilly, Fayetteville, N. C.; Laura Underwood, Fayetteville, N. C.; Margaret Harris, Salem College; Dorothy Dorrough, Salem College; Jean Lampton, Goucher College; Hattie Armstrong, Greensboro, N. C.; Margaret Peary, Roanoke, Va.; Alice Rowley, Christianburg, Va.

Pi Kappa Alpha: Misses Neils Harden, Mildred Armstrong, Gastonia, N. C.; Hardie, Charlotte, N. C.; Anderson Martin, Davidson, N. C., Converse College; Anderson Archbell, Washington, N. C.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Mary Hard, Salem College; Eileen Martin, Greensboro, N. C.; Nettie Allison, Charlotte, N. C.; Mildred Henderson, Charlotte, N. C.; Elizabeth Parker, Salem College; Margaret Parker, Salem College; Sophie Hall, Salem College.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Nell Greenway, Roanoke, Va.; Helen Harris, Charlotte, N. C.; Jean Buchanan, Roanoke, Va.; Grace Sample, Charlotte, N. C.

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Alice Barbee, High Point, N. C., Salem College; Julia Staley, Rocky Mount, N. C., Salem College; Mary Henry, Gastonia, N. C., Virginia College; Martha Jamison, Charlotte, N. C., Virginia College; Martha Jamison, Charlotte, N. C., Sweet Briar College; Sarah Jamison, Charlotte, N. C., Sweet Briar College; Pet Shepherd, Winston-Salem, N. C.; Mary Lee Knuckles, Charlotte, N. C.; Mary Evans, Fayetteville, N. C.; Faith Dudley, Charlotte, N. C.; Wayne Dudley, Charlotte, N. C.

Misses Mary Ethel Moses, Coolda, Ga.; Mary Harper, Decatur, Ga.; Virginia Goodman, Salisbury, N. C.

FINALS OF JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE FOR FRIDAY

On Monday, November 26th, the semi-finals of the Junior-Senior Debate were held in Phi Hall. The question for debate was, “Resolved: That at the next meeting of Congress, it should enact legislation guaranteeing the wheat farmer 10 per cent profit over the cost of production.” The affirmative was upheld by the Philanthropic Society team, composed of the following men: J. E. Holshouser, W. J. Calhoun, and J. L. McLean. The negative side was upheld by the Eumeneans. Their team was composed of A. N.Moffett, A. C. Wildman, and F. A. Hopkins. The judges were Professors A. V. Goldiere, C. K. Brown, and F. L. Dendy. They handed in their decision in favor of the affirmative. The meeting was presided over by E. T. Pullen. The finals of the Junior-Senior Debate will be held on Friday, December 7th. This time it will be between the team from the Pandemics and the team from the Phis, which won in the semi-finals. The Phis will be represented by Hudgins and Walthall.

NEAR EAST RELIEF FUND ADDED TO BY DAVIDSON

Last Saturday morning at chapel, Mr. Williams, the "Y" secretary, made an appeal on behalf of the famine sufferers of the Near East. Mr. Williams asked if the student body as a whole would not contribute a substantial offering for the Near East relief fund. He suggested that the students deny themselves some meal or part of a meal for Sunday. The student body voted its approval of the plan and promised to follow whatever course the boarding house managers and owners should adopt. The name given to the movement was "The Golden Rule Dinner." Details of the plan were left to the boarding house managers. The boarding houses pursued different courses. Shumaker’s did not serve breakfast, and that part of the money paid by the students which would have gone to pay for one breakfast was given to the relief fund. Thompson's did not serve dessert for dinner. Some served soup only, and others followed still other plans. But the spirit was the same. It meant that the students were giving their food for those of God's people who are starving.

PROFESSOR CURRIE STRESSES POWER OF GOD’S SPIRIT

The Students’ Sunday School class was led last Sunday by Prof. Archibald Currie. Though the attendance was small, the class had an interesting and inspiring meeting. The subject of the discussion was “The Outreach of the Early Church.” Professor Currie first proved the falsity of the naturalistic theory of the tongues of fire. The power of tongues was given for the purpose of spreading Christianity. The many different languages and the ignorance of the disciples would have made progress difficult had not God given this unusual power.

There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things

Professor Currie showed that the three main resources relied on by church people for the spreading of the Gospel today—money, organization, and services—are insufficient to meet the needs of the world. None of the three were used extensively by the early church. The one force which was used then and must be used now is the power of the Spirit of God. This factor is the most potent and necessary of all in building an individual character and in spreading the Gospel.

DECREASE IN NUMBER OF SUNDAY SCHOOLS VISITED

Last Sunday, only three of the “Y” Sunday Schools were attended by students. These were Shearer, Mill Chapel, and Cornelius. 

Thursday, a Thanksgiving service was held at the convict camp. A basket dinner was served for the benefit of the inmates. Six students attended the Shearer Sunday School. The total number present was 65. Forrest, Franklin, and Burns Gibbs attended the Christian Endeavor Society, which was held at 7:00 o'clock. Gibbs has recently been elected president of the society. There were about the usual number present at the Mill Chapel. A. Y. Bowie, Wade Allison, J. A. Caligan, and others from the college attended the Cornelius Sunday School.

ANTOINE LAURENT LAVOISIER 1743-1794

Born in Paris, son of a wealthy tradesman. As a student, he won a prize for an essay on lighting the streets of Paris. Held various Government posts. A martyr of the Reign of Terror. Founder of modern chemistry.

This is the mark of the General Electric Company, an organization of 100,000 men and women engaged in producing the tools by which electricity—man’s great servant—is making the world a better place to live in.

They couldn’t destroy the work he did

“The Republic has no need for savants,” sneered a tool of Robespierre as he sent Lavoisier, founder of modern chemistry, to the guillotine. A century later, the French Government collected all the scientific studies of this great citizen of Paris and published them, so that the record of his researches might be preserved for all time. Lavoisier showed the errors of the theory of phlogiston—that hypothetical, material substance which was believed to be an element of all combustible compounds and to produce fire when liberated. He proved fire to be the union of other elements with a gas which he named oxygen. Lavoisier’s work goes on. In the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company, the determination of the effects of atmospheric air on lamp filaments, on metals, and on delicate instruments is possible because of the discoveries of Lavoisier and his contemporaries.

GENERAL ELECTRIC