THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

“The Day of Faith” Is Picture for Saturday

One of the Latest Pictures Out—Plot of Picture is Good and Picture Thrilling

“The Day of Faith” will be shown at the gym Saturday. This is a good picture made from a story which appeared in serial form in Collier’s Weekly and was later published in book form, creating quite a furore on account of the author’s fanciful flights of imagination in handling an interesting theme. As a picture, it is quite out of the ordinary in the tenseness of its drama. Just how strongly it will please the average audience, the showing of the picture only will prove.

“The Day of Faith” is a problem play based on the theory “My Neighbor Is Perfect” and whether they approve or not, the unfolding of the production will give theatre-goers much food for serious thought. The picture is unusually well made and much thought has been given not only to the working out of the faith angle of the story, but to the direction and staging. The cast, which is headed by Eleanor Boardman and Tyrone Power, is good not only from the viewpoint of box-office value, but also in the assignment to characters.

The story starts with the experiences of an idealist who believes the general adoption of his creed “my neighbor is perfect” would bring about the millennium. In carrying this out to the extent of saving a burglar who has caused the death of a neighbor, the idealist, who is a prominent small-town banker, incurs the enmity of the daughter of the man who died. Through her popularity, she works up such a strong feeling against the idealist that he is forced to resign from the bank and later dies as the result of mob violence.

The girl becomes delirious from remorse, and on her recovery decides to devote her life and fortune to the furtherance of the “my neighbor is perfect” creed, establishing in New York a mission in the slums. There she has a series of adventures, wildly impossible but intensely interesting in spite of this, during which the author makes a valiant effort to prove the correctness of his creed theory.

The Cast:
Jane Maynard, Eleanor Boardman; Michael Anstell, Tyrone Power; Tom Barnett, Raymond Griffith; John Anstell, Wallace MacDonald; Montreal Sammy, Ford Sterling; Yegg Darby, Charles Conklin; Granny Maynard, Ruby Lafayette; Red Johnston’s Child, Jane Mercer; Uncle Mortimer, Edward Martindel; Bland Hendricks, Winter Hall; Simmons, Emmet King; Red Johnson, Jack Curtis; Marley Maynard, Frederick Vroom; Isaac, John Curry; Samuel Jackson, Henry Herbert; Kelly, Myles McCarthy; Morris, Robert Dudley; Colored Maid, Matie Peters; Trained Nurse, Frances Hatton.

First Issue of Magazine Popular With All Readers

Content of Literary Journal Merits Approval for its Range in Thought and Subject Matter

The first issue of the Davidson College Magazine, which came out some time ago, and which is the first issue under the new policy adopted for it this year, has met with almost universal approval. The magazine itself is considerably larger than heretofore both in size and in number of pages, and is very attractively printed on the best grade of white paper.

The contributions constitute a well-balanced arrangement of fiction, essays, poetry, and humor. Probably the best short stories are “The Story Teller,” a story of life in central China, and “The Great Tribunal,” a fantastic picture of which there is a smooth flow of words to the threshold of death and back. Two good essays, “The Quest for Minerva,” and “Why is a College Education of Value,” are well written and full of thought. Both are pleas for, and a defense of, education and the trained mind.

In poetry, there has appeared a new contributor in the person of J. H. Caligan, a Freshman. He contributed the two best poems of the issue in “Evening Idyll,” and “Song of the Fisherman.” The wording and meter are excellent for an amateur poet. “Song” and “James and John” are also very good poems. John Bryan furnished “The Lily Fields” and several short poems in prose, in all of which there is a smooth flow of words.

S.A.S.C. Meets at Richmond

Davidson Is Represented

Dr. W. J. Martin Attends Educational Conference—Important Measures Passed

Dr. W. J. Martin made a very interesting and important trip last week. On his route, he went to Chapel Hill, primarily to see Professor Koch, managing director of the University, with reference to the stage in the auditorium and our New Chambers building. He then went to Raleigh to see an insurance commissioner with reference to the safety from fire, especially in regard to the placing of stairways. After these things were settled, the last change in the plans of the building was sent to the architect so that he could go ahead with final plans. It is hoped that the southern part will be finished by September.

Dr. Martin spent Thursday and Friday in Richmond where the Association of Schools and Colleges of the South met. The regular meetings were held in the auditorium of the Jefferson Hotel. Thursday night, they had supper at the gymnasium of the University of Richmond, and on Friday lunch was served at the John Marshall High School building. Mr. S.J. MacCallie of Chattanooga is president and presided throughout the meetings.

Discussions were of a nature interesting to the institutions concerned, and some four or five colleges and a number of secondary schools were admitted to the association. Standards for Junior Colleges were adopted though these are not as yet received into membership. Dr. J. J. Tigert, commissioner of Education of the national government, presided and addressed one meeting. All other papers were by members of the association.

The greatest interest arose over the report of the executive committee, recommending the expulsion of one institution on account of some athletic irregularity; it was referred back to the committee and later discussion will be taken up at the next meeting which takes place at Memphis. The committee on athletics made its annual report which was quite startling. Since some data was not complete, the chairman was asked to complete and publish it, so that specific action can take place at the next meeting.

The educational authorities of Richmond did everything to make the stay as pleasant and profitable as possible. Among other things was a two-hour drive taking in practically all of the city.

RED AND BLACK CAGERS

(Continued from page 1)

favorably by those who are in a position to know what's what. Of course, there’s Nappy Davis, who has never been excelled by any man in the game for fight. Around a captain of the never-say-die spirit, the coaches seem to be shaping their team. At present, Staley and Beall seem to be the best cage-tossers, while Boggs and Morrison are getting the call at guards. Nappy has been shifted to center, a position which he played a great deal last year. With Laird and McConnell as reliable men, and Mallory's leg...Rapidly getting into shape, the prospects are most bright for a winning team. Coach Monk is optimistic and surely that is the best of news. Practice is getting stiffer, pep is rising, prospects are bright, the coaches are exceptionally good men, so what is to keep Davidson from having the most successful year on the hardwood floor that she has ever had? The revised schedule as given out by Manager Smith follows:

January 14—Charlotte “Y”—Charlotte.
January 16—Statesville Athletic Club—Statesville.
January 19—Carolina—Charlotte.
February 3—Guilford—Davidson.
February 5—Trinity—Charlotte.
February 6—University of Florida—Davidson.
February 8—Hampden-Sidney—Davidson.
February 9—Charlotte “Y”—Davidson.
February 11—N. C. State—Davidson.
February 13—University of S. C.—Davidson.
February 14—Wake Forest—Davidson.
February 16—Statesville Athletic Club—Davidson.
February 19—Wake Forest—Wake Forest.
February 20—N. C. State—Raleigh.
February 21—Guilford—Guilford.
February 27—Washington and Lee—Charlotte.

In the Cap and Bells section, Editors Martin and Selser have made a fine start, and they bid fair to uphold the high standard set by the issue last spring. There are plenty of good, clean, witty jokes and pithy sayings, and several clever drawings. The business firms of Charlotte and Statesville, as well as the local stores, have given their patronage liberally. The magazine carries a wealth of advertisements, set up attractively and neatly.

THIRD FLOOR RUMPLE SCENE OF ROYAL BATTLE

Once upon a time, there was a freshman named McMillan and one named Calhoun who dwelt in ye old palace of Rumple on top turrets. Now these freshmen are pages to certain upperclassmen. Since the time that marked their entry into service, there has been certain high rivalry between them. Almost every night, while pouring over their musty manuscripts, upperclassmen would be interrupted by groans and grunts belched forth by struggling pages. Page Calhoun was invariably the victor, but the grit, perseverance, and ambition of ye victim has made these battles continuous as rain. However, last Wednesday, the final struggle for supremacy began in the ward of Sir By Jove. The contestants contested over and back on his flagstones and then into the spacious hall. Sir By Jove waxed so exceedingly excited that he wagered five shekels on his page but withdrew it when the tide of battle turned. By the time the struggle reached the bottom of the steps, Page McMillan yelled for the calf-rope, which was immediately applied. Beaten in mind and body, he turned and stumbled up the stairs, weeping bitterly. Peace now will forevermore reign supreme.

CHARLEY HODGIN RETURNS ON CRUTCHES TO CAMPUS

Charley Hodgin, whose leg was broken in the game with Carolina three weeks ago, returned to the hill last Saturday. Everyone was very pleasantly surprised to see him return so soon. He has spent the time since the accident at his home in Greensboro. It was in the first play of the game that Hodgin received his injury, and it was with deepest regret that the student body learned of the accident. It seems strange to see Charley walking around on crutches after the great style of fight displayed by him all this past season, but he promises to discard this unseemly mode of locomotion in a very few weeks.

Literary Societies

The query for debate in the societies last week was as follows: Resolved, That college credit should be given for literary society work and work done on the Davidsonian and College Magazine. An interesting contest is looming ahead. An excellent program is scheduled for December 13th, and every member should be present.

Pandemic

The fact that the Pandemic Society was called up by President R. R. Jones for a short meeting after chapel Wednesday morning. It was decided by attending that the regular meeting for Thursday, December 6th, should be postponed until the 13th. The reason for this was two-fold. Mr. S. D. Gordon was to speak the night of the society's meeting, and several members were off on the Glee Club trip, so it was thought expedient to have the meeting postponed. The program will not be the old one scheduled for the last meeting but will be the advanced program. The call meeting also took up the question of the date for the Eumenean Fresh-Soph declamation contest. It was decided to set the time after the holidays. There are to be some good men out for the medal this year.

The good supply of material in the upper classes was well demonstrated at the Fresh-Soph declamation contest which was held Tuesday night, December 4th. The judges for the contest were Mr. J. P. Williams, K. J. Foreman, and J. L. McLean. The various contestants spoke as follows:

E. P. O'Connor—"The Walker,” the story of a prisoner who walked back and forth across his cell.
K. K. Regen—“The Horseman in the Sky,” an incident of the Civil War.
H. L. Shaw—“America’s Uncrowned Queen,” a tribute to the mothers of America.
J. M. Garrison—"The Race Problem in the South.”
J. F. Pinckney—"A Nation of Pioneers,” by Roosevelt.
R. W. McIlwaine—“The Home,” by Henry W. Grady.
L. M. McCutchen—“Opportunities of the Scholar,” by Henry W. Grady.
J. S. McFall—"A Eulogy of Robert E. Lee,” by Daniels.

The medal was awarded to H. L. Shaw as the best speaker, and reps were awarded to J. M. Garrison and L. M. McCutchen.

Junior Eumenean Literary Society

The Junior Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting Tuesday night, December 9th. Those upholding the affirmative were William and Craig. Those for the negative were Gaston and Anderson. The decision was unanimous in favor of the affirmative. H. A. Love gave an interesting declamation by Henry Ward Beecher, entitled “The Cynic.” Upon motion of a member of the house, new officers were elected. Those elected were: H. C. Christian, president; V. S. Broyles, secretary. No important business came before the house, and the meeting was adjourned.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP AND PRESSING CLUB

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning, Dyeing, Pressing
Largest and Oldest
8 E. Trade St., CHARLOTTE
Shoe Shine In Connection
Best

What a difference just a few cents make!
FATIMA