- country, is rightly regarded as one of the articles relating to the work of the United States R. O.
T. C. were given in a letter recently received by Cadet Major Cooper from the headquarters of the Fourth Corps
Area, at Atlanta. Facts and figures, that will be of interest to all Davidson students who are members of the
unit, concerning the organization and the rapid growth of this national defense corps were stated. This letter also gave a
brief history of the R. O. T. C. and its development from a small organization during the period immediately following
the war, to the commanding position that it holds today in the educational work of the nation. After the close
of the war, the S. A. T. C. was transformed into the Reserved Officers Training Corps. Each year has seen
a marked growth in the membership of the unit until today there are 227 institutions in the United States having
an enrollment of 108,999 students. Of this number of units, there are 42 in essentially military schools, 124 in colleges
and universities, and 61 in high schools or equivalent institutions. By far the larger percentage of members enrolled are taking
the Junior and Senior Basic Courses.

For the fiscal year 1923, Congress appropriated $3,100,600, and for the fiscal year 1924, $3,500,000. No new R. O. T.
C. funds are appropriated for its support. The Fourth Corps Area, which includes Davidson, has an enrollment of 15,782 at
the present time and leads all the other Corps Areas in having the greatest percentage of Basic Course students in
the Advanced Course. There are 128 officers, 6 warrant officers, and 116 enlisted men on duty with the schools and
colleges in the Fourth Corps Area. Considering the cost to the government in operating the R. O. T. C., it
is estimated that the cost per student for the Senior Divisions for a six month’s period is $70; in essentially
military schools $26; and for students in High Schools, $16.00.

Davidson has lately been inspected by commanding officers of the Fourth Corps Area and has received favorable mention. It will
be placed on the list of distinguished colleges which is composed of Citadel, Clemson, Georgia Tech, Alabama Tech, and Louisiana
State.

GAMMA CHAPTER OF PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS 3 MEN (Continued From Page 1)

Thames has been one of the outstanding students of the campus during the past three years. His name has appeared
upon the Honor Roll several terms and in addition to holding several assistantships is a member of the Gamma Sigma
National Chemical Fraternity. Professor S. G. Stukes is a distinguished graduate of the college and is at present located at
Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Georgia. Most of the alumni are taken in at the fall election. The previously elected members
of Phi Beta Kappa from the present Senior Class are R. F. Davidson, W. A. Gamble, W. G. Guille, D.
H. Ogden, and H. H. Smith. These men have all been prominent in scholarship especially, as well as in other
departments of college life. Members of each senior class are elected to Phi Beta Kappa twice a year. The essential
requirement, particularly with the Gamma Chapter, is scholarship and promise of future efficiency. Not more than one eighth of any
class can be elected to membership. The first election takes men from the upper eighth of the class, and the
second from the upper fourth. Membership in this fraternity, nation wide in its scope, and which embraces all the leading
scholars of the country, is rightly regarded as one of the very highest honors which a man may win in
his college course.

The grand old game is really coming to its own again if appearances are any criterion, and Davidson may be
taken as the criterion. Baseball is coming into prominence much as the great Babe Ruth, so late.

DISTINGUISHED HONOR FLAG GOES TO “B” COMPANY IN SPECTACULAR FIELD DAY CONTEST

GENERAL JOHN J. PERSHING Congratulates Davidson on R. O. T. C. Issue of The Davidsonian

THE MISSION OF THE R. O. T. C. AS SEEN BY A RESERVE OFFICER (Prepared by the Office of the
Chief of Infantry.)

One of the facts established by the history of all the ages, is that no nation or confederation has ever
survived conquest from the outside for any appreciable period after the citizens of the nation or confederation become incapable of
national defense. This was true even in the earlier periods of history when wars were fought by a small minority
of the men of a nation in the fighting forces and when the economic, industrial and technical demands or organization
for successful warfare were comparatively much lighter and simpler than are those of modern warfare. The integrity of the United
States of America as a sovereign state appears to depend directly upon the effectiveness of the national defense system worked
out and maintained by its citizens. This is certainly historically true, unless a fundamental change in the history and progress
of mankind has taken place. Today there is no indication on the horizon of world events of such a change.
In fact, the developments since the beginning of the world war are in the most direct rebuttal of the supposition
that the progress of mankind has so changed the course of history. This is not a question of an offensive
system through which the people of the United States could wage war upon other countries in the territory of those
other countries, but entirely resolves itself into the development of a system by which the people of the United States
may defend their own boundaries against any power, race or combination of powers and races. It was conclusively proven in
the world war that a successful defensive war, such as was fought by France, requires universal organization and mobilization of
men, material and money. It was also equally conclusively proven that all the officers, and as far as possible the
soldiers, must be trained in modern military technique, to avoid appalling and unnecessary loss, even in defensive battle. It is
particularly essential to a system of national defense that the officers of the Armies to be raised from the masses
of people, whence, from the military of any nation, to be effective, should be trained in the technique of modern
warfare. Only with such trained officers can the citizen armies hope to wage a successful defensive warfare without the most
appalling loss of men and material. Unsuccessful defensive warfare will include the additional loss of the territory invaded, which is
always selected by the enemy for its importance to the nation. The greatest single problem in the future national defensive
system for the United States is to supply these trained officers. If the Officers Reserve Corps functions it will answer
this greatest of the nation’s defensive problems. The immediate organization and intelligent training of the Officers Reserve Corps is more
vital than at first glance it may seem, because the country is inclined to rely for the defense of the
future upon the four million trained Veterans of the World War. The country, however, loses sight of the fact that
the majority of these veterans are now past the prime of life and that the training they received in the
World War is becoming obsolete with the rapid changes in military science and technique.Fact that these veterans in a few
years will be physically incapable of rendering front-line service. The intelligent and patriotic development of the Officers Reserve Corps will
prevent the people of the United States, through carelessness and lack of information, from allowing the national system to become
entirely disorganized, as has happened after every past war in which our country has participated. The source of all power
in the United States is, by the Constitution, the people. The members of the Reserve Corps and the National Guard
are of the people. It is upon these men, representing every element of the people, that the system of national
defense, upon which system the survivorship of the nation so largely depends, relies. The National Guard is at present more
intelligently organized and more effectively trained in every respect, and is a stronger element of the national defense, than ever
before. In addition to a trained commissioned personnel, the National Guard is developing trained non-commissioned officers and other trained enlisted
personnel. The Organized Reserve is, however, almost entirely in the making, and its creation depends almost entirely upon the Officers
of the Organized Reserves. The main source of supply of the Reserve Officers Training Corps is the educational institutions of
the country. So, from this standpoint, the untrained men will, in the last analysis, be the national defense pathic: Reserve
Officers of the future.

HONOR FLAG GOES TO “B” COMPANY IN SPECTACULAR FIELD DAY CONTEST

Competition Keen Between Four Companies.

Company B won the Honor Flag for the second consecutive year by defeating her rival, Companies A, C, and D,
in field day contests held April 25, on Sprunt Field. Second place was won by Company D, which has been
Company B’s closest contestant both years. A hot fight was staged for third place, in which Company C finally won
from A by a narrow margin. The contest was hard-fought and was very gratifying to the R.O.T.C. officials who were
in charge. All participants displayed excellent spirit and worked hard for their respective companies. It was a fine day for
such an event, thus aiding the participants to make some exceptionally good records. Company A won both the close order
drill and the manual of arms events by a large margin. Another feature of the meet was the fast wall
scaling of the squad representing Company D. This squad set up a record at Davidson for this event by scaling
the Sprunt Field fence and running practically forty yards in thirty-one seconds. That the battalion is composed of healthy students
is shown by the fact that one hundred and eleven men out of one hundred and twenty-eight ran the one
hundred-yard dash in less than thirteen seconds. Also, out of the sixty-four entrants in the broad jump, thirty-seven qualified by
jumping fifteen feet or more. This is no poor record when one considers the fact that all men wore the
regulation uniform, which greatly impeded their progress. The contest was a success in every detail and both officials and students
deserve praise for the excellent records made as well as for the spirit of sportsmanship displayed during the contest. The
final standings of the different companies were as follows: Company B, 145 points; Company D, 112 points; Company C, 99
points; and Company A, 92 points.

The defensive system, in so far as it includes the untrained manhood of the nation, which part of the nation’s
manhood must necessarily go into combat, in the Organized Reserve Divisions located throughout the country, is dependent for its leadership
and its welfare on the Reserve Officers Training Corps. The responsibility thus placed upon the members of the Reserve Officers’
Training Corps cannot be overemphasized, for it is only through their effective military training and their patriotic zeal that the
untrained men of the nation can hope to be successfully and intelligently led in war. The successful and intelligent leadership
of trained officers in the fighting forces of the United States will, in the future, prevent the unnecessary loss of
life that has always characterized new American troops in battle. So it seems that the responsibility for the success of
the defensive system of the nation, as well as the opportunity to discourage outside attack upon the nation, very greatly
depends upon the young men of the Reserve Officers Training Corps.

Freckles goes out yeas to the pete eees his f

President Student Body
A. M. Hillhouse

President Y. M. C. A.
W. T. Jones

President Athletic Association
E. S. Faison

Editor-in-Chief Davidsonian
L. D. Elkins

Editor-in-Chief Quips and Cranks
W. M. Heston

Editor-in-Chief Magazine
President Senior Class
R. R. Jones

President Junior Class
C. M. S. McIlwaine

President Sophomore Class
Tom Baker

Captain Football Team
E. S. Faison

Captain Basketball Team
C. M. Davis

Captain Baseball Team
Captain-Manager Track Team
Captain Wrestling Team
H. H. Lindamood

Manager Football Team
W. Z. Bradford

Manager Basketball Team
J. I. Smith

Manager Wrestling Team
J. M. Suser

President Dramatic Club
W. T. Jones

President Pandemic Literary Society
Warren Cox

President Eumenean Literary Society
L. D. Elkins

President Metrophilian Literary Society
W. Z. Bradford

President Philanthropic Literary Society

RED, WHITE AND BLUE

On the campus of Davidson today there stands a lofty flag pole, thrusting its steel shaft one hundred and fifty
feet above the grass-carpeted ground beneath. This pole, dedicated to Davidson College by the class of 1917, as it bade
farewell to these historic walls, was intended as a standard carrier for the flag of our nation. On it was
supposed to be flaunted that symbolic piece of bunting which represents everything that our fair country and our own college
stand for. During the stress and excitement of the days during the late world war, the national flag reared itself
above the stately trees of the campus and emblazoned its glorious colors with the sunshine of a clear sky. Now,
since our patriotic sentiment, enlivened by the fervor of a mighty conflict, has waned and lessened its idealistic force, there
no longer flies our national colors as a sign to all the world that Davidson is one hundred percent American.
The lofty spire that was destined for such a noble purpose is bare as are the trees of icy winter.
The spring zephyrs that waft their exotic breaths over its top no longer find a symbol of our patriotism to
greet them. The banner that has weathered a thousand storms and the great battles of our nation no longer surmounts
the buildings which it holds under its protecting wing. Should this be? Should our campus stand as a mute witness
to a decadent patriotism? Must a passing stranger mark our institution as one that does not observe the most common
courtesy towards the national government by such a thing as a flag? Must our R.O.T.C. unit, which is training our
youth for physical and moral betterment, be forced to perform their duties prescribed by the national officials when they do
not have a flag to stand as a sign of their loyalty to a country “whose just powers are derived
from a consent of the governed?” We owe allegiance to our flag and to the republic which it symbolizes. It
should inspire a feeling in us that will cause us to have a clearer conception of our government and the
people behind it. Is Davidson, of all places, going to show if?
