THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

On The Screen

The Purple Highway

You'll like “The Purple Highway,” the picture that is to be shown here Saturday night. Madge Kennedy, popular stage star and cinema comedienne, returns to the screen after devoting two years to legitimate stage work in this picture which is a Paramount, based on the successful stage comedy, “Dear Me.” Monte Blue is the star playing the leading man. There will also be a good comedy in addition to this feature picture. The admission is: Students 15c, others 25c.

Photographing a red light was a problem which puzzled many of the technical staff of the “Red Lights” Co., the picture that is to be shown here November 17. Director Clarence Badger looked a long time before he found a process of photographing a red ray. The script called for a number of red lights, and without them the spirit of the tense drama-mystery is lost. It is a well-known fact that a red light is used in the developing room to protect the negative, as red rays do not have a damaging effect on the ordinary raw film. It necessitated an endless amount of research work in the laboratory before the light could be registered on the film.

Quoting from Gerben Glasiic: An artistic achievement of the year in the way of photoplays, the Goldwyn picture, “The Green Goddess,” which gives George Arliss, who unquestionably is the most gifted pantomimist of stage and screen, a further opportunity to demonstrate his talents. This actor is so deft and subtle in his several shadings that one has to be acutely alert to follow him. His pictures have carried a “high-brow” character—principally because of his unique ability in characterization. His art has never been so revealed, however, as in his portrayal of the crafty, devilish Hindu Rajah in “The Green Goddess,” a portrayal which he has transferred from stage to screen. On the stage, facial expression and vocal gifts were blended by him in such a manner as to become one in their effect on the spectator. The screen, however, has established his remarkable pantomime and nothing of value has been lost. His genius at expression, the lifting of a finger, and the raising of an eyebrow is remarkable and always a delight to watch. In dwelling upon the art of Arliss, the outstanding quality of the picture is given which is a character study of weird humor balanced with polished villainy. It is subtle but always illuminating. The characterization holds you in a deep embrace.

Games next week show:
At Blacksburg, Va., V. P. I. vs. Clemson.
At Columbia, S.C. N. C. vs. S. C.
At Greensboro, N. C., Trinity vs. Elon.
At Charleston, S. C., Citadel vs. Newberry.

Founder’s Day Celebration

At this time when the Students of Davidson are celebrating Founder’s Day, as well as Armistice Day, and the opening of the Davidson College Highway, the story that centers around the college seal and its designer may justly claim our interest.

About the year 1840, the trustees of Davidson College appointed a committee to draw up a design for a seal. The committee, being unable to decide upon a design, decided to consult a school teacher who taught at a country school not far from here. Informed of the mission of the committee, he at once drew on a piece of paper with a pencil the design that was adopted as the seal of Davidson College. This man was Peter Stuart Ney. There is an interesting tradition that he was Michael Ney, Marshal of France.

Ney first appeared in this country in 1819, and it was at Charleston, S. C., that he was first seen. A few months after that he was employed to teach school at Brownsville, S. C., where he taught for about three years. Colonel John A. Rogers of South Carolina says of Ney: “I was in the schoolroom in 1821 when a newspaper was brought to him containing an announcement of the death of Napoleon at St. Helena. He read it, turned deathly pale, fainted and fell exactly as if he had been shot. So great was Ney's grief at this time that he attempted to commit suicide and when removed to his room said, ‘Oh, Colonel, Colonel, the Emperor is dead.’” Col. Rogers also states that not long afterward Ney visited Columbia, S. C., and during a military review appeared on the field mounted. Certain foreigners who were present declared that they had seen Marshal Ney and that the person before them was undoubtedly Marshal Ney. On hearing this, Ney rode off the field, and the next morning he left Columbia.

About 1822 or 1823, Ney appeared at Mocksville, N. C. He told them that his name was Ney and that he was a French refugee. He taught school there for several years with wonderful success. After that, he spent several years in Virginia, returning to North Carolina in 1830, teaching in Rowan, Cabarrus, Lincoln, and Davie counties. Later, he spent one winter in South Carolina, teaching near Darlington. He then returned to North Carolina and taught in Lincoln and other counties until his death on November 15, 1846.

During all of this time, Ney was exceedingly reticent and rarely spoke of his past life except to his special friends. Occasionally, he would drink to excess and at these times he would sometimes publicly say that he was Marshal Ney. As to his influence, Rev. W. A. Woods, D. D. of Statesville, N. C., says: “His influence for good in the community can hardly be overestimated. It is felt to this day and will continue to be felt by succeeding generations.”

Ney did, however, speak of his past history to confidential friends when he was known not to be under the influence of liquor. Mr. Valentine Stirewalt, of Davidson, stated that he told him that he was Marshal Ney, and how he escaped. A similar account to that given by Mr. Stirewalt was given by Mrs. Mary C. Dalton, who says that she was a pupil of P. S. Ney and that he boarded at her father’s house for several years. He said: “My name is not Peter Stuart Ney, I am Marshal Ney. History states that I was executed, but I escaped death through the aid of my friends and others. On the day appointed for my execution, I was told that my life was to be spared. I was instructed to give the command to fire, and the shots might pass over me. I carried out my instructions. I was taken up by the soldiers and taken to the hospital. That night I was disguised and went to Bordeaux. From that place, I sailed to the United States, landing in Charleston in the latter part of January 1816. The next few years I spent in seclusion, and prepared myself for teaching by studying the classics and higher mathematics.” He is said by Mrs. Dalton to have said that he chose the profession of teaching because it was in many respects like the military profession, to which he had been accustomed all his life. He could not bear the thought of engaging in any occupation where he would be commanded or controlled by others whom he might consider his inferiors. In the schoolroom, he was supreme; hence he remained in seclusion for several years studying.

There were, however, other reasons for Ney’s concealment. After the execution, it was reported in France that he had escaped. Bourienne, in his “Memoirs of Napoleon,” says: “It was impossible to get the public to believe that Ney had really been killed in this manner, and nearly to this day we have fresh stories recurring of the real Ney being discovered in America.” Thus it would seem that Ney knew by remaining concealed for several years these reports, to a great extent, would die away.

Mr. Geo. H. C. Melody, who was a great friend of Louis Philippe, having made his acquaintance and rendered him some valuable assistance while he was exiled in America, says the St. Louis Republic, was told by the king while visiting in Paris that some of his friends had searched for Marshal Ney.

A Kansas lawyer whose grandfather was in Wellington's army says that he has often heard his grandfather say that Ney was not shot, and that the report of the British commission that was present at the execution was this: “Marshal Ney was not shot.”

Peter Stuart Ney was walking down the street in Statesville when he suddenly met John Snyder, an old soldier who had fought under Marshal Ney. As they came face to face, Snyder threw up his hands, exclaiming, “Lordy God, Marshal Ney.”

Some years ago, there was found in a volume on the life of Napoleon in the Davidson College library, a pencil sketch of P. S. Ney drawn by himself. It was at the top of a page containing a picture of Marshal Ney.

Mrs. M. J. Blue and Misses Jane and Jean Blue, of Raleigh, were the weekend guests of Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

EATING CLUB ORGANIZED BY PROMINENT MEN HERE

There has recently been another forward step taken by some of the members of the| student body in the nature of an eating club. | This club is known as The Shack and is lo- cated at Mrs. Foster's boarding house. The purpose of the organization is to promote a better feeling of friendship between the members of the several fraternities and the non-fraternity men. The club consists of six men from each fraternity and six non-fraternity men. Each six is composed of three Seniors, two Juniors, and one Sophomore, no Freshmen being eligible. Every man is voted on by secret ballot, requiring at least two votes against him to keep him out. 

The Shack was organized by some of the most prominent men of the student body and it is strictly democratic in nature. It was not organized for the purpose of being exclusive but absolutely for the promotion of better friendship among the frat and non-frat men by bringing them into closer contact with each other. The club was not organized just for this year, but it is to be a continual thing, lasting from year to year—hence the division of the membership among the three upper classes. The six men from the Bachelors have been elected but have not taken their places at the club yet. They will do so later. There are also about five football players who are now eating at the training table but who will take their places at the club as soon as the season is over. They are: Tom Baker, Julian Briggs, Charley Hodgin, “Gig” Shepherd, and Ralph Boggs. Those who are now eating at The Shack are as follows: C. V. Brown, Jr., A. W. McAlister, J. D. Baker, Jr., T. B. Brown, Jr., T. H. Koenig, F. S. Shaw, J. D. Parish, Littlejohn, R. H. Falls, W. T. Spencer, A. D. Mallory, T. F. Staley, J. H. Patton, John Bachman, S. S. McNair, George Dupuy, Perry Priest, E. L. Lovelace, A. W. Peters, J. I. Smith, J. H. McConnell, Frank Hudson, Alf Robinson, Tommy McSwain, and W. B. Mattison.

SCHOLASTIC STANDING OF FRESHMEN IS IMPROVED

Remarkable improvement in the scholastic work of Freshmen this year over the records of previous sessions has been credited largely to the elimination of hazing and the installation of group conferences for the new students. This year’s Freshman class, as a whole, had relatively few delinquencies in scholarship for the first month as compared with the figures for the same period last year. The group conferences, installed at the beginning of the fall term, have proven extremely successful in eliminating failures and in impressing the new students with their various responsibilities. The Class of ’27 has been divided into five groups, each group meeting with its leader on Monday evenings. At the group meetings, an open forum is conducted with a short talk each week from the leader on some phase of campus life. Any college problems that have been faced by the new men during the previous week are discussed and remedied. The new system of group conferences, fashioned to a large degree after the Princeton Fellowship Groups, will greatly reduce the number of students summoned before the Court of Control each week, if the plans and ideas of the group leaders are realized. A feature of the group conferences for the next five weeks will be talks each Monday evening from leaders in the different college and campus activities. One speaker will be heard by each group at every Monday night meeting. The following men have been selected for these talks: Albert Hillhouse, on “Student Body Government;” Liston Elkins, on “What is Expected of Davidson Men;” “Gig” Shepherd, on “Athletics and Body Development in College;” R. R. Jones, on the subject of “Scholarship;” and Ted Jones, on “Religious Activities at Davidson.”

WAS PETER STUART NEY, DESIGNER OF COLLEGE SEAL, MARSHAL OF FRANCE, UNDER NAPOLEON?

All Proofs Point to the Fact that French Refugee, Designer of Davidson College Seal, Was Marshal Michael Ney, Napoleon’s Famous General. Old Tradition of Interest With Regard To Ney

On his deathbed, P. S. Ney solemnly swore that he was Marshal Ney of France. In the graveyard of Third Creek Church, Rowan County, N. C., there is a stone bearing the following inscription:

In Memory Of Peter Stuart Ney A Native of France and a Soldier of the French Revolution Under Napoleon Bonaparte Who Departed This Life November 15, 1846 Aged 77 years

There is some writing also on the page which is signed by P. S. Ney. Friends of Ney have identified it as his signature. The likeness of the two drawings is very striking. In a number of histories of the Napoleonic Wars, lives of Napoleon, etc., P. S. Ney has made certain statements and explained passages which show that he was present at the time referred to. The references to Marshal Ney are many of them in the first person. A newspaper account of the so-called execution of Marshal Ney gives the following: “Ney was informed of his sentence late at night and was hurried to execution early the next morning. The sentence was carried into effect early in the morning on the 7th of December, 1815, in a clandestine manner near the Observatory, for all who were in any way connected with this detestable transaction seemed ashamed of it. When Ney reached the place of execution he walked firmly from the coach to the fatal spot and, refusing to have his eyes blinded, calmly faced the detachment. Taking off his hat with his left hand he exclaimed, ‘I solemnly protest before God and man against the iniquity of my sentence. History will judge me.’ Then placing his hand upon his heart he added, ‘Soldiers, straight to the heart! Vive la France.’ Fire.” He fell dead upon the spot, twelve balls having taken effect. Thus perished one of the greatest men that France could boast of, exhibiting to the last moment the undaunted courage which had ever distinguished him in battle.”

Consider the so-called execution. It took place in a dark secret alley and not in the Plain of Grenelle, the appointed place where ten thousand people were assembled to witness it. The regulations were altogether alien to military rules. The executioners were Ney's own veterans. One account says: “as the body lay in the hospital an officer took a picture of it. A smiling and winning placidity seemed to play about the countenance.” Imagine it, a man with twelve balls in his body, three of them in the head. The burial was almost before daybreak the next morning, not a minister there, not even Madame Ney, who loved him devotedly, not even one of the “Old Guard.” Could this be the real burial for the “Bravest of the Brave,” who had brought more glory to French arms than any other man living? But then why should people flock to the burial of a dummy or an empty box?

Literary Societies

Metrophilian

Two well-presented debates marked the regular Metrophilian meeting Oct. 30, one of these being extemporaneous. The regular debate of the evening, Resolved: That the President should be limited to one term of four years, was featured by some hot argument on both sides. The judges' decision was in favor of the negative. The extemporaneous debate on the subject, Resolved: That the college should place a tax on all goods sold on the campus, was won by Stewart of the affirmative. Farrell upheld the negative. Guy Morrow had a well-worked-out oration. The program at the next meeting will be presented by freshmen.

Philanthropic

The Phi Society held a short business meeting on Tuesday, October 13. The meeting was not held until after the Skeyhill lecture, so the program was postponed and a few business matters were taken up by the society. The meeting was well attended, nearly all members being present. The program set for October 13 will be given on November 6.

Eumanean

The Eumanean Society held a short meeting Tuesday night, adjourning for the Skeyhill lecture in Shearer Hall. The week's program was postponed till the next meeting.

Pandeinic

At the regular meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society Tuesday, October 30, J. B. Webb was received into the membership by a unanimous vote of the society. It was voted that the time of meeting should be changed to seven o'clock when supper hour is changed to six. The subject for debate was: Resolved: That the Presidency of the United States should be limited to one term of four years. The Affirmative, upheld by Goodykuntz and J. S. McFall, received the vote of the judges against the Negative which was supported by Frank Hudgins and J. R. Maxwell; the Negative, however, received the vote of the house. E. M. Regen delivered an oration, The College Ideal, and McAlpine gave a humorous declamation entitled Mark Twain's Watch. An announcement concerning the Junior-Senior Debate and the inter-society preliminaries was made; also an announcement that the Freshman-Sophomore Declamation Contest would be held at an early date which has not yet been definitely decided upon.