4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

“You Can’t Beat Brains”

Is that true, or can brains be beaten? We don’t know what those juniors and seniors who are studying double personality and other branches of brainology would say about it. We have our own idea about it, however, and that idea is that the slogan is correct and that you cannot beat brains. For brains to conquer, however, they must be exercised and exercised forcefully and persistently and courageously. Each brain must take its own exercise and not depend on the activity of other brains for its health and usefulness.

Now, if you think this article is written to urge the men on the campus to study harder this term, you miss your guess. Its object is, however, to urge them to use their brains in a matter of vital importance to our student life.

The matter is the way in which votes are cast for student officers. Election time will soon be here and every student should be doing some individual and courageous thinking and be preparing for some intelligent and courageous voting. Davidson student activities have been fortunate in the majority of cases in the men elected to office here. There have, however, been some shocking and distressing misfits. All too often we have elected round pegs for square holes, some of the round pegs being so small in diameter that they did not even touch the edges of the square, not to mention the corners. No particular names need to be called to make one realize that this practice is still being followed.

The presidency of the Davidson student body furnishes the greatest opportunity in college circles in America and the same can be said relatively of the other places of leadership in student body life here. The only man who has a right to allow himself to be voted on for one of these offices is one capable to fill it. That capability should include among its prime requisites, high ideals, training that fits him for the place, and the possession of a backbone. No man who is not capable for the particular office for which he is offered should be supported, no matter how many letters, stars, “gold wheels” or other shiny decoration he has associated with his name, person, or apparel. Unless we insist on such men for our places of leadership the boasted democracy of the Davidson campus will never be anything but an empty boast. Think it over, men, and then vote like you think, not like someone else thinks. Brains cannot be beaten; let’s use them!

Another call for candidates has been issued and a large group of pitchers and catchers have answered it. From these men must be selected suitable ones to represent Davidson credibly on the diamond, and the better their ability, the greater our chances of success in baseball. The job of developing these men is one that will tax the patience and skill of any coach. However, with Jack Currie, our captain of ’20, at the helm, and with assistance, as we all hope, from Coach Hengevelt, there should finally emerge some good pitchers and catchers for this season. We are all backing you, Buck!

A thing that we all need in keeping our rooms in the best order, and also in keeping the campus looking neat at all times, is a waste-basket. Here we can throw the paper and trash that otherwise litters our room or the campus below our windows. Since the college isn’t furnishing these any more, it certainly looks like a good proposition for someone else to take over. Cheap waste-baskets should be very easily disposed of.

“Every day and in every way, the square in front of the Infirmary is growing worse and worse.” We all know how bad this piece of ground has looked lately, especially since the road construction work caused it to be so torn up and filled with rubbish. The statement quoted above reminds us very forcefully of the fact, and because it is college property and adjoining the campus, should make everyone want to see steps taken to clean this plot up.

While we are working so hard to improve the looks of the campus proper, we also want that part of it presentable.

Credit is certainly due Professor Erwin and the minstrel cast for the successful way in which they put before the public the recent accomplishments at Davidson along this line. From all reports, they played before appreciative and well-filled houses at almost every town, and the final performance was broadcast over the country by radio from Charlotte. Never before were the strains of “O Davidson” heard so widely as on last Saturday night, and let us hope that they may be so heard more often in the future.

ATTEND Y. M. C. A.

The speaker at our Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday evening, Rev. Long of Statesville, certainly brought an interesting and highly profitable message from the life of the Apostle Paul. Very seldom does anyone speak here who has such a vocabulary and command of the English language as he had. An opportunity to hear such a talk comes only infrequently and all could ill afford to miss it.

Next Sunday Buck Currie is going to speak to us, and those who were not out last Sunday want to join those who were, and all turn out to hear Buck’s talk. As our Y. M. C. A. secretary he is in close touch with all our college problems, and both in that place and as baseball coach he is in close touch with us personally.

Misses Shivers and Emily Harper, of Salem; Misses Mildred Armstrong, Margaret Warren and Elizabeth Ragan, of Gastonia; Misses Eloise Martin, Sarah DePass, Mary Oeland, Margaret Law and Miss Wilkes, of Converse; Misses Hamlin Landis and Lois Rogers, of Charlotte, and Miss Margaret Jenkins, of Shelby, were guests of the Kappa Sigma fraternity the past week-end.

NEW LABORATORY COURSE

For some time plans have been on foot to give Davidson a new course in laboratory work, but until this spring the course has never been put in our curriculum. Since Dr. Frazer Hood has had charge of the psychology classes here he has added business psychology, for the benefit of those who desire this sort of preparation for business life, and now the course in experimental psychology that he has put in this spring makes this branch of instruction here compare very favorably with anything of this nature that can be gotten at colleges as small as ours. Recently the apparatus for the laboratory work and experiments was ordered, and its arrival is expected at any time. This set willequip the lab very adequately, especially for the first time that the course has been offered, and, of course, will be added to as opportunity or necessity arises. This new lab is very well situated in a room in the basement of the temporary building, and here the apparatus will be set up when it arrives. This course is a very valuable one, and puts psychology here on an even footing with the other sciences, physics, chemistry, and biology, in giving the student first-hand experience of the subject he is interested in. Its success from the beginning is anticipated.

Also in Raleigh, Nappy and Pat took seats in the balcony and when asked to leave...

When asked in an English class recently what the word “lethargy” meant, Wallace Moore replied it was a kind of poetry. Don't laugh unless you know what it means. Rogers, the young lad from Baltimore, will no doubt take Flo Ziegfeld’s place soon since he is such a wonderful director of minstrels, etc. John Bryan is planning to give a course in carpentry, with special attention to the art of driving nails at an early date. John drove so many during the minstrel trip that he feels well qualified to conduct this class. It’s surprising the number of sprained ankles one sees these days. Wonder what's the cause?

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Mary G.—I heard the most peculiar thing the other day.
Martha Mc.—Tell it, Mary.
Mary G.—A man and his wife both had false teeth. The wife was a great gossiper, but he hardly ever opened his mouth. One day, on the car, going to town, he nearly talked his neighbors’ ears off and, do you know, it was because he had gotten his wife’s teeth instead of his own!

Two rather unsteady gentlemen were lodged in the same cell and, after the manner of companions in adversity, became chummy.
“Wh-Wha’s shour name?” inquired one.
“Name's Paul,” replied the other.
“Paul? Paul? Oh, sure, Paul,” replied the first, after searching some obscure corner of his memory. “S-say, Paul, quesshun I been wannin’ t’ ask you for long time. Did you—didju ever get an answer to that letter you wrote to the—Eph—Eph—to the Ephesians?”

McNeil—What is the meaning of the word ‘necking’?
Dorsey—Necking is the art of collaring a woman.

One day as I chanced to pass,
A beaver was damming a river;
And a man who had run out of gas
Was doing the same to his flivver.

Prof. Coolidge—Who made the first nitride?
Freshman—Paul Revere.

An exchange says that a certain Christian layman has the following printed on the back of his business card:
The man who swears does ten things at once:
(1) He breaks the command of God;
(2) he violates the law of the land;
(3) he transgresses the rules of good manners;
(4) he outrages decency;
(5) he insults good people;
(6) he profanes sacred things;
(7) he shows bad bringing up;
(8) he dishonors his parents;
(9) he does what he is ashamed of;
(10) he does what he will regret.—Louisiana Wildcat.

Kant—This place certainly turns out good men.
Descartes—When did you graduate?
Kant—Didn’t graduate; they turned me out.

Do you know that:
Puget Sound does not come from an organ?
There is no wood in club sandwiches?
Rebecca did not go to the well with a baseball player when she went with a pitcher?
The Kentucky Derby is not a hat?

Sweet Young Thing (looking up from market reports her glance has happened on)—“Dad, did par go up any on the Exchange today?”

Why a Girl Closes Her Eyes When She’s Kissed

Yes, it is perfectly true that a girl closes her eyes when she is kissed. Not being a girl, I can’t speak from experience, but I have taken a peep now and then and sure enough what people say is perfectly right. Why? That's really too easy to answer—about as easy as writing in Hebrew what the Sphinx is thinking in some other dead and forgotten language.

Before a person can get very far along with an explanation, he must understand just what a kiss really is. Now a kiss is only a spontaneous generation of the demonstration of the affection expressed in terms of two red lips pressed close together; a sublime blissful ethereal moment when for the time being there are only two people in the world and all the rest does not matter; a never-to-be-forgotten second which is snatched from the very hands of time; and last, a kiss is love's expression that makes itself felt long after the kiss is only a memory of one supreme moment when the entire Universe stood still and waited, and when old Father Time showed signs of weakening, for once allowing the seconds to pass by without counting them.

That is a kiss. Now since a kiss has been explained, it is clear that there are many good reasons why a girl should close her eyes when she is being kissed. She closes her eyes in order to forget all except that one kiss; she closes her eyes to forget that time is time; she wants to shut out all material things and really live for a moment if for no longer; she wants to dream, for if she were to realize that the kiss were really a fact, then she might have heart failure from sheer happiness; she tries to hide her eyes from her lover, for she wishes to make him think that he alone is being granted a great privilege; in short, and in place of telling the thousand and one other reasons that might be advanced, a girl closes her eyes when she is kissed because for one sweet moment she desires to forget that she is a mortal, desires to live above the clouds for a lifetime in one short span of seconds.

Does that not explain why a girl closes her eyes when she is kissed? If, kind reader, you think that it does not, then just let me know. From full experience—not being a girl, you know—I will take you by the hand and lead you among the paths that only a favored few are allowed to tread.—Clemson Tiger.

Little Mary had seen a baptism at church on Sunday. Monday her mother finally found her at the lower end of the garden where she had dug a hole. She was holding her pet pussy over the hole and pouring water over its head while repeating the ritual, “In the name of the Father and the Son and in the hole he goes.” And in went the cat.—The Tiger.

At Washington and Jefferson, the seniors wear a small white ribbon on the coat lapel. At Pitt each class wears a distinctive button. At the University of Tennessee, white sweaters are worn. At Illinois, distinctive hats. At the University of Pennsylvania, the seniors wear their caps and gowns two weeks previous to commencement. At Michigan, seniors carry canes.—The Round Up.

A Good Sport
“He never believes he has played his best. He never quits. He has no alibi. He smiles when he loses. He is a quiet winner. He plays fair."—The Tiger.

Ducks (Composition written by a 12-year-old boy.)
The duck is a low, heavy-set bird composed mostly of meat, bill and feathers. His head sets on one end, and he sets on the other. There ain't no between to his toes and he carries a toy balloon in his stomach to keep from sinking. The ducks have only two legs and they are set so far back on his running gear that they come darn near missing his body. Some ducks when they get big are called drakes. Drakes don’t have to set to hatch, just loaf, go swimming and eat. If I was a duck I'd rather be a drake every time. Ducks do not give milk but eggs, but as for me give me liberty or give me death.—Exchange.

A pin is a sort of a funny thing,
Yet one is like the other—
They’re always pointed in one direction
Yet headed in another.
—Emory Wheel.

Fair Visitor—Is there any place aboard that I can get a drink of water?
Gob—Certainly, miss. At the scuttle-butt, on the starboard side of the gun deck, midships, just forward of the dynamo hatch.—Exchange.

Old Lady—Here’s a penny, my poor man. Tell me, how did you become so destitute?
Beggar—I was like you, mum—a-giving away vast sums to the poor and needy.—Weekly Telegraph.

Teacher—Johnny, what is three times three?
Johnny—Nine.
Teacher—That’s pretty good, Johnny.
Johnny—Pretty good, it’s perfect—Selected.

Two Jews were walking down the street one winter day with their hands in their pockets.
“Well, why don’t you say something,” said one.
“Freeze your own hands,” replied the other.