THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

DAFFY DITTIES

The Boarding House or the Hash Hound’s Lament

“What care I for swell cafes?” the handsome hash hound cried,
“The boarding house’s my only praise, my only hope and pride.
The restaurants don't interest me, nor tea-rooms with their truck
of rolls and jam, denatured tea—with them I have no luck.
The hash house is my only chance to sit awhile and blow;
the only place I give perchance my appetite a show.
A waiter’s check no more I dread, in peace I sit and eat,
my bank book forges right ahead and living is a treat.
Yet some will kick about the feed served to them table d’hote
while I to worries pay no heed nor let them get my goat.

“Time was when I did cuss, and fret, about the hash house chow.
Small wonder that I’m peevish yet with wrinkles on my brow.
Three times a day in every way I’d test the bill of fare;
to find some tid-bit I would pray, but useless was my prayer.
These handouts did for other lads, and filled them with delight,
but hash and prunes toned down my poise, my carcass looked a fright.
Three times a day on grits I fed, with syrup for dessert;
the flies and bugs dwelt in my bread and made my inwards hurt.
Sometimes for change they laid out prunes or maybe moulded wheat.
They got my palate out of tune with what they had to eat.
The waiter kept his tongue in check, a lout he was and slow.
He spilt the gravy down my neck and softly murmured ‘Oh.’
I’d turn my head, my meat was gone, vamoosed into thin air;
in vain I’d moan and bellow on, in vain I'd pull my hair.
Week in, week out, the constant fare it was my lot to learn
while I sat calmly in my lair, and for a change did yearn
of something save the spuds and grits dished to us a la carte,
that knocked us for a good two bits until our ways did part.

“Yet, withal, they’re needed here till man no longer feeds
on products of this grand old sphere that fills his inwards’ needs;
till he exists on waxen pills and capsules large and small,
he’ll cheat the doctor of his bills and heed the hash house’s call.”

D.

DAVIDSON HAS RESORTED TO ZOROASTERIANISM

Fire! Fire! Fire!
1. That one in the country.
2. Gibbs’es,
3. Phi Hall.
4. Chambers.
5. McConnell’s.
6. Mrs. Wagner’s oil stove.
7. A. F. sofa.
8. Watts.
9. The Trough.

Is Davidson, Presbyterian or Zoroasterian? Zoroaster was a pretty good old bird in his day, and people made a big
fuss over him, but if he was running things now, I'll swear I believe he would get a little more
system into things.

Fire No. 1 should not have been arranged so far from the campus. Lots of people were too far gone
to enjoy it at all when they arrived. The time was about right though; it broke up the literary society
meetings.

As for No. 2, the chief thing wrong with it, besides its lack of publicity, was that none took advantage
of the beautiful and charming opportunities to perform gallant rescues, and become heroes in real romances.

No. 3 was simply a fizzle.

No. 4 was a complete success, Old Zoro, himself, could have done no better. The whole affair was perfect. The
burning was scientifically arranged, and the ruins were magnificent. The timing of the ceremony was also calculated to a nicety.
It took place when there was an abundance of spectators. It was late enough to permit all who desired such,
a long night’s sleep before it was discovered, and just early enough in the morning for the darkness of night
to render the lurid glare the more impressive. Excellent!

The plans for No. 5, weren’t much force. The whole thing amounted to nothing more than a pretty punk bush.

No. 6 was a little better. Zoroaster would probably have had a good deal of praise for Mrs. Wagner. Of
course, it being only an oil stove in question, the thing could not have been expected to burn up completely,
but during the two hours that she left it, it blackened the room to such an extent that it took
two whole days to clean it. Pretty durn good!

The plans for No. 7 were of course on a modest scale also but the success was fair. Strictly speaking,
no more could have been required of it, but it certainlyMissed an opportunity when it left the Eu hall standing.
Nothing really extravagant can be said for No. 8. The ignition was commendable, the day of the week, and the
time of day were well chosen, but if the stunt had only been pulled off when there was a strong
wind blowing either up or down dormitory row, it would have been quite a success. No. 9 was sorry. It
was simply punk. In the first place, the excitement caused by it would have been completely overshadowed by the other
fire. Then, the plan was altogether too hastily conceived and poorly executed.

(Continued on Page 8)

THE REEL STUFF

The moving picture attraction for this week will be “The Hottentot,” a First National directed by Thomas H. Ince. The
latest big stage success to be adopted by the movies is “The Hottentot,” Willie Collier’s successful comedy that rocked the
entire country. A record run of two years, playing Broadway and touring the country, was made by Willie Collier and
his company with this stage play, which has been adapted for the screen by Thomas H. Ince. It tells the
hilariously funny story of a yachtsman, terrified of horses, who is mistaken for a famous steeplechaser of the same name,
and finally forced to ride in a breakneck race. The stars in this production are Douglas MacLean, who made quite
a reputation for himself in “Twenty-three and a Half Hours Leave,” and Madge Bellamy, who formerly played on Broadway. In
“The Hottentot,” MacLean takes the role which was played by William Collier on the stage.

In “When Knighthood Was In Flower,” Henry VIII was always calling out the guards. This calls to mind the S.
A. T. C. days. According to the story, the beautiful English Princess, Mary Tudor, was received with royal honors in
Paris, but old Louis soon discovered that while he had bargained for a Queen, he had not gained a wife.
Mary leads him a merry chase and he soon dies. Three thousand persons were required for the filming of the
wedding scene.

Let everyone remember that he who violates the laws of the land, tramples and tears asunder the charter of his
own and his children’s liberty—Abraham Lincoln.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The alchemists wrote vaguely of “fluids” and “principles.” Copper was potentially silver. Rid it of its red color and the
“principle” of silver would assert itself, so that silver would remain. With a certain amount of philosopher’s stone (itself a
mysterious “principle”) a base metal could be converted into a quantity of gold a million times as great. This all
sounded so “practical” that Kings listened credulously, but the only tangible result was that they were enriched with much bogus
gold.

Scientific theorists like Robert Boyle (1627-1691) proved more “practical” by testing matter, discovering its composition, and then drawing scientific conclusions
that could thereafter be usefully and honestly applied. Alchemists conjectured and died; he experimented and lived. Using the air pump,
Boyle undertook a “theoretical” but scientific experimental study of the atmosphere and discovered that it had a “spring” in it,
or in other words, that it could expand. He also established the connection between the boiling point of water and
atmospheric pressure, a very “theoretical” discovery in his day but one which every steam engineer now applies. He was the
first to use the term “analysis” in the modern chemical sense, the first to define an element as a body
which cannot be subdivided and from which compounds can be reconstituted.

Boyle’s work has not ended. Today in the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company it is being continued. Much
light has there been shed on the chemical reactions that occur in a vessel in which a nearly perfect vacuum
has been produced. One practical result of this work is the vacuum tube which plays an essential role in radio
work and roentgenology.

General Electric
General Office Company
Schenectady, N.Y.

Q.E.D.

“Show me,” says the math teacher—and when the chalk clouds have settled down there are a lot of figures signed
“Q. E. D.” which aren’t “Q. E. D.” at all. Say “Show me” to the shaving cream you’re using and
see what answer you get. Will it soften your beard right down to the base before the breakfast bell has
rung twice? Will it leave your skin smooth and supple after every shave and give you the well-groomed look of
perfect skin health? Every day men are finding how much easier shaving can be made because of the speed and
thoroughness with which Williams’ softens the beard. Likewise, they are finding a help for their skin in Williams’ that they
never found in any other shaving cream. Try it. The difference may surprise you.

Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!
