2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

Maryland 3, Pennsylvania 0. Captain Bachman, by his all-around good playing, was soon seen to be the best of the
Davidson team. He accounted for both of Davidson’s points. Reeves, read it and weep.

ATHLETIC NEWS

We wonder when V. P. I. will quit regarding Davidson as one of her two easy Fresh Copy Varsity In
Loss On Fluke Play. Furman Freshmen Win in Final Minute of Play.

While Coach Younger’s first stringers were outplaying and losing on a fluke to V. P. I. at Blacksburg last Saturday,
the Red and Black Wildkittens were duplicating the act on Davidson’s new athletic field by outplaying and losing to the
Furman Freshmen in their first intercollegiate game. The game should have been a 14 to 14 tie, ended on the
field a 0 to 0 draw, and was finally decided a 2 to 0 victory for Furman when Referee Bethel
changed his decision. Both teams had excellent opportunities to score two touchdowns but weakened in the shadow of the goal
and lost the ball on downs. In the final minutes of play, Sapp of Davidson grounded the ball illegally on
an attempted forward pass after missing a bad pass from center and failing to punt, for which Davidson was penalized
half the distance to the goal. Sapp then kicked to safety and the game ended 0 to 0. Referee Bethel,
however, later ruled that an incomplete pass from behind the goal line was a safety and Furman won the game
2 to 0. As the decision now stands, the Furman Freshmen are victors by a small majority, but the final
ruling has not been made and it may ultimately develop that the game was a draw.

The game was hard-fought and exciting throughout. The Davidson Freshmen outplayed the visitors consistently but bad breaks on both sides
evened things up. Furman’s young hurricane threatened the Wildkittens’ goal once and carried the ball over once for a touchdown
after scooping up a fumble on the ten-yard line, only to be called back on account of Davidson being offside.
Furman received the kickoff and after covering the ball on Furman’s 30-yard line, the Wildkittens advanced the ball steadily from
this point, failing to score with only four yards to go. Furman took the ball on the 20-yard line and,
failing to gain, punted, the punt being knocked down and covered by Davidson in midfield. The Davidson lads again advanced
the ball to within striking distance and only missed the goal by six inches. On Furman’s six-yard line, Davidson fumbled
and Kerr of Furman recovered and made the 90-yard run to a touchdown only to be called back on account
of Davidson being offside. Furman punted out and the ball remained in play in midfield for the balance of the
half.

Furman’s defense tightened in the second half and the contest developed into a punting duel, Furman getting the better of
the affair. After several exchanges, Hewlett fumbled one of Armstrong’s long ones and Woodward recovered for Furman on Davidson's 40-yard
line. The Furman boys launched their hardest offensive at this point and advanced the ball to Davidson’s two-yard line where
they lost on downs. At this point, the mix-up came over the unusual play pulled by Sapp and immediately afterwards
the game ended with the ball in Furman’s possession on the 40-yard line, Woodward being downed in his tracks after
receiving a 50-yard punt.

Sapp was in rare form throughout the game and seemed able to clip off a nice gain at will. Shelton,
Varnedoe, and Johnson were playing a great defensive game, Varnedoe and Shelton breaking through on several occasions. Armstrong, Beasley, and
Kerr were performing nicely for the visitors. The Red and Black Freshmen showed the results of good coaching but were
unable to deliver in tight places. The Furman Freshmen put up a scrappy fight and with a little more experience,
several of the men will be good material for next year’s varsity.

Lineup:
Furman (2) Davidson (0)
Beasley L. E. Shelton
Choice L. T. Christian
Ball L. G. Green
Thomas C. Lincoln
Dunn R. G. Hudgins
Woodward R. E. Bohannon
Armstrong L. H. B. Johnson, W. K.
Evans R. H. B. Hewlett
Sapp (Capt.) Q. B.

Substitutions—Davidson: Wharton for Johnson, McConnell for Johnson; Furman: Corley for Thomas, Duncan for Kerr, Nelson for Beasley, Mims for Evans.

CHRISTEN NEW GRIDIRON

Large Crowd Expected for Big Day on Hill

With two of the hardest games on the schedule over, speculation now turns to the outcome of this week’s contest
with Citadel. The South Carolina team is something of a dark horse on D. C.’s calendar, this being the first
game with them since 1920. On that occasion, the score was 27 to 13 in favor of the Red and
Black, showing the teams well matched, with Davidson somewhat superior on the offensive. The dope sheet for this season sheds
very little light upon the strength of the Bulldogs as compared with our scrapping Wildcats. Citadel has met Camp Bragg
and triumphed, 33 to 0, and has things up and Furman’s young hurricane.

Congratulations, Monk

We are proud of you, Wildcats. Three games and still the Wildcats haven’t been scored on from scrimmage. And yet
there are a lot of fellows who, with all respect to the men who gave everything they had for old
Davidson last season, V. P. I. was able to make 26 largely through the line—neither of which happened this year.
Forget last year, gang. We've got a team right now that will wake up a few people yet if we
give them all the backing they deserve.

Furman Fresh 2, Davidson 0. But this time the game is not over when the whistle blows and there may
be a change in the darn thing yet. After all, it depends on the interpretation of a rule that can
be read two ways. As it stands now, the referee’s decision goes and Furman has won a good game with
plenty of fight. However, we wondered what a young hurricane would feel like. At first, it looked like it was
tame enough but in the last quarter, the Kittens had to put chewing gum on their spikes to keep from
being blown away.

The new C-awl Fence is quite a benevolent proposition. If you have the kale you saunter in to see—if you
haven't, you stay on the outside and see just as well. They might put some seats outside though. It’s awful
standing all the time.

The dope on Citadel shows two D. C. victories and two ties:
1909—Davidson 0, Citadel 0.
1914—Davidson 16, Citadel 0.
1916—Davidson 7, Citadel 7.
1920—Davidson 27, Citadel 13.

We can almost guarantee that Citadel's scoring column won't keep climbing Saturday.Turnabout is fair play, but that doesn’t say it
isn’t hard. V. P. I. beat us this year in the same way that we tied them last time. As
it is, we can’t kick. We sat up all Saturday night waiting to hear all about the surprise Carolina was
going to pull on Yale. Somebody said Yale won 53 to 0. And somebody else said it must have been
April Fool. We don’t blame Carolina a bit for letting her regulars stay home and peep through the knot-holes at
Trinity. The Methodists will bear watching. Maryland 57, Randolph-Macon 0. Trinity 54, Randolph-Macon 0, and then defeated Erskine 26 too.
But neither of these teams has invaded North Carolina or met any of Davidson’s opponents, and both are admittedly weaker
teams than V. P. I., who was fortunate in snatching a victory from D. C. by intercepting a pass after
having been outplayed the whole game.

Reports have it that Citadel is using some stellar material from the ’21 team of Charleston High School, South Carolina
champs two years ago, and that a fast and hard-fighting eleven will invade Presbyterian territory on Saturday. The Wildcats have
sharpened their claws into old-time form, however, and when Bulldog meets Wildcat on the new Richardson field there is apt
to be a lot of scratching off. It will take more than the proverbial Bulldog tenacity to hold the eleven
which ran over Elon, beat P. C., and gave V. P. I. a hard run for her money.

The Citadel game will be the first varsity game on Richardson field, and it is expected that a large crowd
will be present to see the grounds christened in proper style. Citadel has at least one man, O’Shaughnessy by name
(spelling not according to Webster), who is likely to give the Wildcats a fit. They say he is almost as
fast as Jim Hendrix, and that’s saying a lot. Above all, Citadel is noted for clear, hard play, with fight
and plenty of it.

We can’t show them what real Davidson spirit is all about the line we had last year. You can count
on the team between the whistles. It’s up to the student body to do the rest. We all hope Bradford
won't take the team off at six o’clock in the morning anymore. It may not have been “September Morn” but
it was early just the same. We got up early Sunday morning and spent several pleasant hours hunting for the
write-up of the V. P. I. game in the Charlotte Observer. When we found it we noticed that it was
short and sweet (for the Observer). It read: "Blacksburg, Va. V. P. I. 7, Davidson 0."

On the other hand, a few clippings from some other papers may be of interest: “The game the Tarheels put
up here Saturday was by far the best exhibition of defensive ball seen here in many years.”—Roanoke News (Monday). “Every
man on the Davidson team lived up to the name of Wildcat.”—Roanoke News (Sunday). “The Wildcats outplayed the Techs both
on the offensive and defensive.”—(General Press Account). “State and Davidson fought, while Carolina backed down.”—Raleigh News and Observer. “If Carolina
brings her second team to play Davidson they may as well stay home.”—Charlotte News. “Davidson surprised the football world last
year by holding V. P. I., one of the strongest teams in the South, to a tie. But the surprise
was no greater than the performance of the Wildcats yesterday on the Virginian’s own gridiron. It was homecoming day at
Blacksburg and the Techs were expecting to slaughter the Wildcats.”—Greenville News.

Incidentally, the crowd at the game Saturday was the largest ever seen on Miles field—which all goes to show that
the Carolina Wildcats are not entirely unknown. We were glad to hear of P. C.’s victory over South Carolina, and
wish them all the luck in the world against Furman Saturday.

Here’s the game the Wildcats want to keep their eyes on next week:
Davidson, N. C.—Davidson vs. Citadel.
Durham, N. C.—Trinity vs. North Carolina.
Raleigh, N. C.—N. C. State vs. South Carolina.
Greenville, S. C.—Furman vs. P. C.
Baltimore, Md.—V. P. I. vs. 3d Corps Area.
Wake Forest, N. C.—Wake Forest vs. Lynchburg.
Danville, Ky.—Centre vs. Clemson.
Bristol, Va.-Tenn.—King College vs. Elon.

GOLFERS GO DOWN BEFORE ONSLAUGHT OF GASTONIA
Captain Bachman Led Field of Davidson Representatives
Freshman Showed Up Well

Although playing a losing game throughout the entire match, the Davidson College golf team, led by Captain Bachman, forced the
Gastonia Country Club veterans to go to their limit to win the match by a 10-2 score. The tournament was
played over the country club course at Gastonia Saturday afternoon, October 6th. Handicapped by the fact that they were playing
their first match of the season and the unfamiliarity with the course, the Davidson team was overcome by the superior
form of the seasoned players. However, at times the Wildcats opened up and treated the spectators to some brilliant form.
Though not winning, the local squad showed promise of developing into a strong team and one that will be a
dangerous foe to the surrounding clubs.

A Freshman showed promise of becoming an excellent player while Ernhardt and Malloy did some good work. Miller was the
outstanding man for the Gaston County aggregation. The following is the line-up:

Gaston Country Club:
Davidson:
Bachman
Covington
Miller
Ernhardt
Rankin
Malloy
Gray

Davidson 2, Gastonia 10.

Manager C. W. McCrary, who accompanied the team to Gastonia, announced that within the next two weeks there will be
a return match between the two teams on the local course. Much work has been done in getting the course
in shape and manager McCrary and Dr. Arbuckle wish to encourage all men who have had experience in golf to
come out. Manager McCrary is planning to have matches with many of the surrounding country clubs this fall. As usual,
the open tournament will be held in the spring.

GRADUATE STUDENT IS MINISTERIAL SPEAKER

On Sunday afternoon the Ministerial Band was addressed by Joe Walker. His subject was The Ministerial Band and Its Relation
to Campus Life. He first took up the passage in Luke which says that the kingdom of God “is like
leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.” He showed Christ's
conception of the kingdom of God. He then took the truth which was brought out and applied it to campus
life.

IN FAVOR THIS FALL

Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have
it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building
