4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON............Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH...............Forum Editor
I. D. ELKINS...............Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN...............Campus Editor
J. M. STONE...............Second Managing Editor
D. H. OGDEN...............Athletic Editor
H. M. BERRY...............Assistant Athletic Editor
F. W. PRICE...............Literary Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD...........Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD...........Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY...........Assistant Manager
C. F. BARRINGTON, J. A. MINTER, J. M. APPLEBY, J. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RATCHFORD, B. V. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER..............Business Manager
W. C. RIVES...............Assistant Business Manager
W. P. FULLER..............Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCUTCHEN..........Assistant Business Manager
J. R. ROSCH................Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN..............Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON............Assistant Circulation Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
McILWAINE, C. M. BROWN, R. K. EISENHOWER, M. L. PARTEE, B. B. ALLISON, O. J. MOFFETT, A. N. WHARTON, D.
B. CARSON, M. A. MOORE, W. O. PATTON, B. L. BARLOW, W. F. POMEROY, J. M. LAKE, J. A. E.

"The student must be affirmative. He must be willing to throw his personality into the scales in behalf of those
causes he believes to be fine. And he must have enthusiasm. Whether they are for better congressmen or better babies,
for fewer words or fewer wars, for more interesting movies or more interesting men, he must support them with all
his force."—The New Student.

A reminder.
Our basketball team this year is showing up fine again. All the men are working and the prospects look good
for a successful season again. Let’s all get out and give the five all the support possible and pull for
them to win all the games that we have left on the excellent schedule that has been arranged for them.

For a long time, there has been a movement on foot to adopt a standard ring at Davidson, and finally
it has come to a successful termination. The ring that the Junior Class selected, and which the whole student body
backed them in, is one of the prettiest and at the same time, well-proportioned college rings that will be found
in any college. Davidson can well be proud of it, and every alumnus treasure it after he has finished his
course here.

Never before has a minstrel at Davidson been so successful, and never before has one had an opportunity to present
our school before the public, as has the present cast under Prof. E. J. Erwin. Such a thing brings us
quite a distinction.

JUNIOR SPEAKING
This spring there has been some difficulty attached to the selection of proper and suitable dates for Junior Speaking. The
Juniors picked the weekend of March 16 and 17, which seemed very good until it was found that at this
time the Y. M. C. A. already had an engagement made for conducting its life-work campaign. Since these two would
naturally conflict in a number of ways, and since each should have ample time, it was thought best to select
another date for the social event, and the weekend of Easter was chosen. At this time, we are to have
somewhat of a spring holiday, it is understood, and while there is some complaint being raised about the possibility of
our entertainment not being a success then, this should certainly not be the case.

It was the lot of the Seniors last fall to have Senior Week under almost identical circumstances, and all the
same arguments were advanced against it. However, we all realize what the few social functions that we have at Davidson
mean to the life of the campus, and when such things as have come up

NUT SUNDAES
Under the swinging drug store sign,
The village flapper waits;
The flapper, a clever kid is she,
Who never lacks her dates.
Laughing, smiling, all set for another bloke;
Each evening sees a man picked up,
Each morning sees him broke.
And so through life she lightly gives,
Many a happy shout;
But yet the poor girl's never there
When the diamond rings come out.

OPEN FORUM
The work of the Y. M. C. A. has many phases at Davidson. We have our picture shows every week,
our service on Sunday evening, our Hi-Y work, the country Sunday school, the mid-week Bible classes and many other branches
of activities on the campus. Most of this work is for our direct benefit, but we have one department of
the “Y” which is conducted for others. This is the Mission Fund department.

Every year it has been the custom at Davidson to raise a sum of money to send to the support
of some definite mission work. In this way we have been able to help out the work of our church
a great deal and we have felt that by denying ourselves some things that we have given large numbers of
people opportunities for education and medical aid. Our money went last year to the support of Hangchow College, an institution
very similar in ideals to Davidson. We would like to raise an amount of money this year that we will
be proud of and let those people know that we are in sympathy with their work over there and that
we think enough of them to give them our financial support.

Very soon you will be given an opportunity to contribute to this fund and it will be more fully explained
at that time. We would like to have every man in school contribute something to this cause. Be thinking about
this campaign and save up some money for it.

PI DELTA EPSILON IS OFFERING PRIZE MEDALS
Chicago, Ill. (Special) —Is the college graduate poorly equipped physically? Has his bodily development been neglected because of attention to
mental development? Should a new standard of physical fitness be required of every student as a qualification for a degree?
Every male undergraduate in the United States and Canada has been invited by Pi Delta Epsilon, honorary collegiate journalism fraternity,
to answer these questions.

In announcing as the subject for Pi Delta Epsilon’s 1923 Intercollegiate Editorial Contest: “Physical Development as a Requisite for the
College Degree,” Cecil P. Gordon, of Dartmouth College, general undergraduate chairman, said: “Last year hundreds of editorials were entered in
our contest. Pi Delta Epsilon has two objects: First, to interest American college students in affairs affecting them all as
a group; and, second, to arouse a greater interest in journalism in general and editorial writing in particular. We confidently
expect no less than 3,000 editorials.”

As in the past, Pi Delta Epsilon will award its coveted gold, silver and bronze medals to prize winners. One
gold medal, two silver medals and ten bronze medals will be given. Because of the nature of the subject chosen,
extensive publicity will be given by the press in general and particular.The place, Epsilon, has urged co-operation by college this
year. Arise, it is just necessary to meet them squarely and put our enterprising business. It is an obligation that
rests upon them highly resolved. Therefore, the development of this finer quality of soul in every collegiate athlete is particularly
noted by sporting editors interested in intercollegiate athletics. This is the case now, and the committee of the Junior Class
in charge of arrangements for this Speaking needs the support and backing of all its own class members, and of
all the rest of us, too. With that, they are going to be able to have a Speaking that will
please us all. —Dean Charles R. Brown, Yale.

Nothing is so useless as advice on how to handle women—through the meshes. Some things are simply inexplicable, and among
them is that 20 years from now the present crop of flappers will complain that their daughters are immodest—through the
meshes. Be patient—you probably get on somebody’s nerves yourself. Everybody gets bumped now and then—through the meshes.

MISSION STUDY.
During the past year, there has been a lack of interest in weekly Bible classes that have been held on
each floor of the dormitories. Of course, there are a number of ways in which this might be explained, but
it is impossible to find anything that could be called a satisfactory explanation. Davidson is a college where these Bible
classes should receive a full measure of support, yet much to our shame, there have been many other colleges and
universities who have outstripped us lately in attendance and successful classes. Such should not be the case, and all should
consider this matter and strive to find out what has been the cause of the Davidson students falling down where
others have succeeded. The fault may have been with the teachers. Yet in practically every case, they have striven to
build up interest and attendance. It may have been with the course given, or it may have laid in the
fact that the new dormitories have much larger floors, and lack of co-operation there may have hurt these classes. Let’s
all consider these classes as a pleasure, going out regularly when the bell rings at 9:30. In any of these
cases, it can certainly be remedied. Starting last week, a new course in mission study has been put in. Dr.
Porter is directing the teachers’ class, and every Wednesday night, they should all have something interesting given by him and
also gotten from the book taken up, all who will come. These classes never last long enough to be harmful
to a man’s studying nor to tire him out, and particularly should the study hold an attraction.

MINSTRELS SCORED HIT
(Continued from Page 1)
They were encored heartily for their efforts. Mr. Gallaher and Shean met with their usual success as was shown by
the times they were called back to the stage. The act ended with the whole troupe singing “O Davidson.” A
better minstrel has never been presented to a Davidson College student body. Credit for this goes to Professor and Mrs.
Erwin, who, by their untiring efforts, made the minstrel what it is. The student body expresses their deep appreciation for
what they have done. Wednesday morning the Wildcat Minstrels left Davidson to sojourn in a strange land. Converse, G. W.
C., Gastonia, and Charlotte were to be visited by the troupe. A special Pullman car has been chartered by Manager
Aiken and the minstrels will travel in state, as they gather the dust of the Carolinas.

A letter received from the White House from President Warren G. Harding, a member of Pi Delta Epsilon, indicates his
thorough endorsement of the contest. As a former newspaper and college man, he is in whole-hearted sympathy with its object.
Announcement of the contest rules will be made within the coming week.

A STELLAR SCENE
By the dreary River Styx sits an old man, deep in meditation. Existence is wearisome and monotonous to Copernicus here
in the borderland of Hades. No more can he contemplate the heavenly bodies as they swing in their majestic circles;
for him, there is only an occasional black ripple upon the glassy river, half lit by some flame in the
land behind him. No sound disturbs his melancholy save the quarreling monotone of the waters in the reeds along the
bank. But, lo! A smile flits across his ashen features; his weary eyes light with eagerness. He rises to his
feet and strains forward in an attitude of listening.

“See it there?” he hears, “follow the edge.”
“Sure, I see it now; you say it’s Venus?”

Signs of spring. Have you noticed them?
1. Frank Johnson and Fresh White in track suits.
2. Renovated frenzy in horseshoe pitching.
3. Miss Elenwood’s electric car.
4. Red McComb’s clean shirt.
5. Sporty Alexander commences his usual Cornelius expectations.

All freshmen were permitted to retire from the Phi society 15 minutes early last Thursday night, in order to attend
the pep meeting. Some 12 or 15 freshmen retired, among them being Country Currie.

When Is a City Sweet Sixteen?
P. C. (one English) Charlotte is a beautiful city nestled in the Piedmont region of North Carolina.
Prof.—Mr. Henderson, when does a city get too big to nestle?

Earnest requests that a little less noise be made on the third floor East, so that he can accumulate sufficient
sleep at night. He finds it very annoying to be rudely awakened in English class.

The friends of N. G. Patterson wish to congratulate him upon the fine work done during his presidency of the
Eu society.

The greatest shock that has ever come to the Davidson student body was felt a few days ago, when it
was reported that D. B. Walthall and W. F. Galloway had fallen out. It is well known that for the
past three years each has owed the inspiration for his poetry to the other, and now that they refuse to
speak to each other, Ray Carr may as well prepare to provide poems for all occasions. After the show last
Saturday night, they thought of settling their dispute as to whether the feminist question originated with the industrial revolution, or
in the days of Euripides, by a duel, but that was considered too prosaic a method. It is rumored that
they will resort to a grits-eating contest to settle the question. If this plan is resorted to, the friends of
D. B. have nothing to fear.

Among the weekend visitors on the campus were: Miss Mary Savage Gilliland, Spartanburg, S. C.; Miss Lula Mae Smith, Clarkston,
N. C.; Misses Katie Bess and Mary Anderson of Charlotte, and Mr. Karl Deaton of Statesville, all of whom were
visitors of the Delta Theta Chi Fraternity.

Oh, what is so rare as a vacant night at Davidson College? Thus the modern bard, for between first-night shows
and a troupe from Biddle University, there is no time to study from 7:30 to 10:30. Why, the only thing
needed is a few dozen curb-lights along Dormitory Row, between East and Shearer Hall, and little old New York’s White
Way would be put so far in the shade that it would make the natives of ancient Babylon pull in
their necks. There are only two things that are quite inconvenient about the whole matter. The first is the filthy
lucre one has to put out in order to strut his stuff, and the second is that there should be
a few dozen more committee meetings between 10:30 and 12:00. One way to avoid the inconvenience of having to roll
the dough for all these happenings and events would be to increase the campus tax a couple of thousand dollars
and let students in free to all these things.

Our idea of a good week would be something like this:
Monday night—Basketball dance.
Tuesday night—Dance.
Wednesday—Movies, featuring Gloria Swanson.
Thursday night—Lecture on the virtue of not studying.
Friday night—Movies, featuring Bebe Daniels, and a dance.
Saturday night—Tiddlywinks tournament.

First time I ever saw a star in the daytime.
‘Tis many a day since I have seen such interest displayed by mere man,” remarks the old man to himself
in happiness, deep and profound.

The conversation continues,
“Rube” Curdts is heard to remark: “That ain’t no star, fool. There aren’t any stars in the sky in the
daytime!”

The old man falls wearily to the ground and groans. He rends his robe in chagrin and disappointment and, weeping,
places ashes upon his hoary head.
