THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 5, 1928

RELIGIOUS ACTIVITIES

DR. PORTER SPEAKS ON DUTY OF A PASTOR

The Ministerial Band and the Volunteer Band, which have had joint meetings for two months, have had to meet separately
for several weeks due to special business. The Ministerial Band was fortunate to have Dr. Porter speak to them Sunday
morning at its first meeting since the bands separated. He presented an interesting talk on the subject, “Feeding my sheep,”
which seemed to impress the men present.

Dr. Porter emphasized the importance of obedience to the command. He recounted several instances where men had tried to avoid
entering the ministry when they felt it was their calling, only to later return to the work God had chosen
for them. He also described some men who entered the ministry thinking it was their calling but found success only
after changing to a different nature of work.

Next, the speaker illustrated the ministry's work as one of responsibility. He showed that the minister's work is not only
about leading the sheep but also feeding them. Several examples were used to illustrate that just as people need the
best food for the quickest growth, ministers should carefully prepare spiritual food for their flock. The speaker said, “Ministers should
not just warm over the food for their sheep.”

The Band was impressed by the vivid picture of the minister who goes into his work with love, responsibility, thoughtfulness,
and sincerity, accomplishing wonderful work for his Master, Jesus Christ.

CAPTAIN TOV SPEAKS ON MEXICO

Last Sunday, the Volunteers secured Captain Tov to speak on his impressions of the Mexican War. He mentioned that the
language spoken is mostly corrupt Spanish, with some French in certain parts. Most of the people are ignorant and poor,
living in poverty-stricken, dirty, crowded towns. Their principal pastime is cock fighting, with horse racing and bull fighting a close
second. He said they have no ambition and are uninterested and listless.

He mentioned visiting a small Catholic church built in the sixteenth century with hard concrete floors where everyone knelt. American
troops attended all public meetings to prevent any hostile plans. The priests are slightly more refined than the rest of
the people but do not live up to their vows and are immoral. Most houses are made of sun-dried mud
bricks, and the army often encamped under such constructions. The Mexicans had poor transportation for their troops, with soldiers riding
in wooden box cars, their families on top doing the cooking, and their freight strapped under the cars. Their ammunition
was also poor, with many cartridges not fitting into the rifles.

Captain Tov concluded, “If you were to live and work with the people in Mexico south of El Paso, you
would find a desert country populated with ignorant, poor, suspicious people, controlled by a run-down, decadent Church.”

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR WORK IS PRESENTED

The Christian Endeavor Training Class had an interesting program last Sunday in the form of an executive committee meeting of
the United Society of Christian Endeavor. The meeting was called to order by Dr. F. E. Clark, who founded Christian
Endeavor in Maine 42 years ago. He expressed gratification that everyone had set aside their vocations to attend the meeting.
Prayer was offered by a committee member, and the roll was called. Although two members were absent, they sent representatives
to report for them.

Those present included E. P. Gates, the general secretary of Christian Endeavor; C. F. Evans, secretary for the all-South Extension
Committee; D. A. Poling, associate president and citizenship superintendent; C. C. Hamilton, field manager for the Christian Endeavor World; H.
B. Grose, vice-president; and Wm. Shaw, general secretary for the World's Christian Endeavor Unions. R. P. Anderson, the editorial secretary,
sent his representative, and S. B. Vandersall, the alumni superintendent, was represented by his private secretary. All made splendid reports,
and Dr. Clark was pleased with the work Christian Endeavor is doing worldwide.

The class enjoyed the meeting and learned about the procedure of an executive committee meeting. The class frequently holds such
meetings, which are interesting to all present. They are starting a course in expert endeavor next Sunday, which will run
for approximately ten weeks. They wish to enroll as many interested individuals as possible to have many Christian Endeavor experts
when the course is finished. If interested, attend the meeting next Sunday at 1:15 in Shearer Hall.

What Do You Bring Home?

One man goes out to his work and comes home with a pay envelope—nothing more. Another man goes out to
his work, comes back with his wage—and something added to his character. In the day’s work, he found a chance
to grow, thereby paying himself a double wage. A little more skill, greater dexterity, a new and better way to
do the job may seem like something for his employer, but it means infinitely more to him. The tool he
holds in his hand is the means by which he shapes his muscle. What he puts into his work today
determines what he will be tomorrow. Selected.

OFF WITH A FLYING START

(Continued from Page 1)

Davidson defeated the Charlotte Y. M. C. A. Saturday night by a score of 38 to 32. The victory was
hard-earned, and the outcome was uncertain until the final whistle blew. Out to avenge the defeat of two weeks ago,
the Charlotte team fought bravely and showed a flash of brilliant playing in the last half, almost tying the score.
Under the leadership of Captain Warhoss Mauze, Davidson rallied and secured the winning points.

The game was fast from the first toss-up. By speed and teamwork, combined with remarkable goal-shooting, Davidson obtained a lead,
with the score standing 18 to 11 at the end of the first half. Early in the second period, Charlotte
staged a rally, holding the Wildcats to a two-point lead at one time. However, Mauze, Crawford, and Laird pulled up
the score with long shots, bringing applause from the crowd of visitors, townspeople, and students packing the gymnasium. Captain Mauze
led his team in scoring with six field goals and two fouls, totaling 14 points. Crawford and Laird each scored
five field goals, Staley one, and Beall one. Boggs fought like a tiger at guard, preventing many scores that seemed
inevitable. Pat Crawford showed his old-time form, making spectators gasp as he tossed clean goals from the center of the
floor. Laird, inhis first year of college basketball, did spectacular work at forward. Unfortunately, personal fouls took him out of
the game in the second half. Beall, Staley, Mallery, and Davis all played a splendid game. Looks like these Wildcat
basketeers are championship stuff! For Charlotte, Moore led the scoring, getting 14 points out of the visitors’ 32. The “Y”
team played a fast, clean game, the kind any sportsman would enjoy. The line-up:

DAVIDSON (38) CHARLOTTE (32)
Laird (10)......... Ricks
Moore (14) Staley (2).......... Marsh (6)
Mauze (0).......... Yates (8)
Crawford (10)..... Smith (4)
Boggs (0).../.....L. G...Cunningham (0)

Substitutes—Beall (2) for Staley, Mallery

CONCORD GAME

The night Coach made a flying trip to Concord and proceeded to usher in with a thrilling game. The “Y”
team of Concord is one of the fastest teams in the State. Moreover, the fast Concord team is well-nigh unbeatable
on their small court. Nevertheless, the Wildcats were out there fighting the full 40 minutes before old Warhoss could lead
his teammates off the floor with another scalp. It took a full 20-minute period to get used to the small
court. It seemed almost impossible to take a shot at the basket before one of the Concord athletes could intercept
the ball. Time after time, a chance to score was broken up in this manner. When the half ended, Davidson
was leading by the slim margin of one point, the score being 17 to 16.

The keeper tacked on 2 points for the squad. The Capital City Barber carried him all over the court and
missed many a play. More than this, they have developed a game which is confident in itself. On this particular
night, the fast Concordites excelled all past performances with their brilliant playing. Unfortunately for them, their opponents were putting up
an even better game. But Davidson was closely covered throughout the entire guard position.

The first half began with a rush. Neither side was able to secure any decided advantage. Concord would manage to
score, but the Wildcats managed to take the lead. The Wildcats' defense was par-excellence from Davidson’s standpoint. Eleven markers came
over half his hits, and more than the whole team. His last play was excellent. Boggs strutted their position and
looked respectively. Curtis looked like the class of the visiting team. Jennette showed up good in the things you do.

Substitutions—Davis for Beall, Staley (2) for Davis, Mallery for Staley, Dedmond for Wray, Duls for Dedmond.

Fouls—Mauze, three out of four. Curtis, two out of seven.

Referee: Faul. Scorer: Mauze.

The last half proved too close and exciting to allow either quint a moment's relaxation. After 13 minutes of playing,
the scoreboard showed Concord in the lead by four points. This was the turning point, however, for Davidson. At this
stage, Staley put the game on ice with four quick goals from the floor. Laird and Crawford each contributed another
goal, and the game was won, 35-28. For the losers, Long probably put up the best game, although it would
be hard to pick any individual star, the honors being very evenly divided. McCaskill played a great defensive game. The
work of the entire Davidson team was above reproach.

DAVIDSON (35) CONCORD Y (28)
Beall (2)........ R. F......... Wolff (6)
Laird (1)........ L. F......... Dick (6)
Mauze (7)........ C......... Bell (4)
Crawford (4).... R. G...... McCaskill (0)
Davis (0)........ L. G......... Long (12)

Substitutes—Mallory for Beall, Staley (8) for Mallery, Boggs for Crawford.

Fouls—Mauze, three out of four. Long, four out of seven.

Referee: Faul. Scorer: Boushee.

N.C. STATE GAME

Chalk up another victory for Captain Warhoss Mauze and his merry band of Fighting Devils! Monday night before a large
crowd, the Wildcats hung up their fourth straight victory of the season in a 40-minute round of caging exhibition, this
time by a 21-8 count. N.C. State, playing the loser’s role, put up a hard fight but failed in their
effort to stop the Red and Black floor men. The features of the game were the fast floor work and
close guarding of both teams. The fracas started with a rush and for the first eight minutes, both fives put
up a brand of the court game such as had never been seen before in the alumni gym. Neither side
could score. Both teams played in the same fashion—fast, snappy passing down the floor, a miss at the basket, and
then a fighting five-man defense. Pat Crawford finally cranked the scoring machine with a dandy long shot and a moment
later Captain Warhoss threw her into high with another field goal. Crawford’s second counter and Warhoss’ foul shot brought the
local machine to the seventh mile-post, but someone stepped on the wrong pedal and the flivver coasted for the remainder
of the half. After fifteen minutes of work, Leeper broke State’s goose egg with a field goal but the half
ended 7-4, with the Wildcats on the long end of the count.

State made only one field goal in the second half, but it came in the opening moments of the stanza
and the count soon stood 7-6, Davidson leading. The Fighting Devils then got busy and for the rest of the
evening

Columbia Theological Seminary
JOHN M. WELLS, President
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA

We wish the Davidson students to note:
I. That all candidates for the Ministry have a warm welcome at Columbia Seminary, but it has special claims upon
those coming from the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida.
II. Columbia has a faculty of eight men, each a specialist in his own department.
III. Columbia is a railway center, with lines branching out in every direction, enabling the Seminary students to supply vacant
Churches over a very large territory, with a minimum loss of time from the campus.
IV. The standard requirement for the B.D. Degree of this Seminary is as high as any in the United States.
At the same time, it gives an excellent English Course, with graduating certificates, to those students who are so recommended
by their Presbyteries.
V. Sufficient financial aid is rendered to all deserving students through endowed and special scholarships.

Send for the latest catalogue.
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary
