THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

FEEDS?
W. B. BARNETTE AND CO.
We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

INFLUENZA
As a preventive melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply up nostrils before mingling with crowds. If feverish, call
a doctor at once.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
5% 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows
221 West Trade St.

Natz—“Didja ever eat at one of these neighborhood feasts?”
Ig—“No, but I’ve eaten off Community Plate.”

No, Hortense, a stock-broker is not necessarily a cattleman.

Forrest T. Franklin, who is an ardent follower of the G. O. P., was severely stung last week. He sent
three dollars to a publishing house for a handsome steel engraving of President Harding, and they sent him a Harding
postage stamp.

All that glitters is not gold—neither is all that shimmies cold.

Two of Davidson’s prize Dumbbells were talking of anything in general. Said one, “Do you know that when I was
a baby, I was so small that they could put me inside a quart cup.”
Second D. B.—“For goodness’ sakes, how did you live?”
First D. B.—"Yes, they say I lived and done well, too.”

Dupe—“Have you seen that stork down at Miss Minnie’s?”
Simp—"Nope.”
Dupe—"It’s a stuffed bird.”

How doth the busy College Boy
Improve each Shining minute?
By Bulling when he’s out of Class
And Sleeping when he’s in it.

“Shriek” Christenbury said that some flowers are made to waste their sweetness on the desert air, but he's determined to
scent forth his Stacomb, Mary Garden, and Mennen’s whenever he goes forth.

Bromo—"Did you say Cig-are?”
Seltzer—"No. I asked has Cirgar-et?”

“Bevo” Davis is somewhat better in farming than in any other scientific subject. He has discovered a cow fed on
a steady diet of sugar cane, cocoa beans, and cracked ice yields delicious chocolate milk. He was worried over the
fact that all the eggs that his hens laid were cracked, until he remedied the matter by cutting out all
cracked corn fed to them. He is now experimenting on crossing pig-weeds and eggplants so he can grow ham and
eggs.

“Ah, that’s it to a Queen’s taste,” said the tea as it chased itself down the Queen’s throat.

However, his carcass was not in proportion to his Mentality. He could walk under a No. 5 1/2 chapeau, and
wear size 26 cotton unmentionables. This Little Man was imposed upon by his Big brother. That was not right. Do
you think so, Gentle Reader? His name was one that would set a cow to bawling for her calf if
she heard it. It was Setram Ferdinand Quiney, and the hind end of his name was the same as his
brother's, namely, Ivegottaknickersoff (He was a Russian).

The brother with the most years behind him decided to go to College. He had heard tell of the wondrous
necking parties, the interesting lectures, and the football games to be had there. Therefore, he went. In his trusty carpet
bag, he packed a red flannel nightie, a toothbrush, and a change of toothpaste, washed his ears, and fared forth
to seek his fortune. His Bro stayed at home and nursed all the cows and chickens.

But the Big Boy did not do so well at College. The Bad Lads bothered him with their pats and
paddles. In spite of his yards and over of stature, he got frocked. He heard that they were coming to
get him because he pulled the tail of the college dandelion in front of the dormitory. His heart smote him
in terror. So he wrote a letter to his Brother back in the tall timber, imploring him to come to
his assistance. Bertram Ivegottaknickersoff did.

“Aha! Bass Violins,” he said to the College Sports, “thou hast done wrong by my Big Bud and I’m going
to do wrong by you.” With that, he let loose the fury of his arm and fist. He fought better
than Petroleum Bonaparte ever did. But hark! One of his opponents is about to stab him with a paper knife.
But turning with the swiftness of a rheumatic hippo, he drew forth his ice knucks and knocked him cold. When
he had dispersed them all, he stood upon the field of battle, victorious.

Famous personages of History we have with us on the Campus:
Abraham Lincoln, Benjamin Franklin, John Quincy Adams, Woodrow Wilson, Alexander Hamilton, Col. James Bowie, Bunyan’s Christian, Edmund Burke, Charles Brockden
Brown, Cicero Sapp, Cash Register, Montgomery Ward, Sears and Roebuck, Christmas Carol, Back Woods, Allhanson Deck, Admiral Perry, Alexander the
Great, Swimming Poole, Puppy Love, Flour Miller, English Sparrow, Mt. Mitchell, Tomb Stone, Globe Trotter, Floor Walker, Battercake Turner, Oliver
Cromwell, Henry Ford, Patrick Henry.

Our Weekly Fable
Once there were two Yokel Lads who lived in the tall timber, back where taxicabs are conspicuous by their absence.Absence.
Where they lived was so far back that they used Walnut logs for firewood and Blackgum for toothbrushes. These boys
had the same father and mother, or as the vulgar would say, they were brothers. The older son was one
of Earl E. Leiderman’s own. He was so hard that he took a cool shower as often as once a
month and rubbed down with barbed wire. His name was Zeke. His younger sidekick had a visage like a peeled
onion topped off with Dermalax. He looked like he had been melted and poured in his clothes and on their
cedar chests and hollered “Eureka.” Then these two twains meandered homeward to pull the bell rope on a mule and
feed the chickens once more.

MORAL: A bad, small onion smells as

Suggestions for Christmas Presents of the fact that the “Merrie Noel” is close at hand and extensive shopping service of
the Davidsonian has personally selected a Christmas gift list that should please the most fastidious family. They are enumerated below.
Guaranteed to suit the whole family. Reasonably priced.

For the Baby: Colgate’s Shaving Soap, fine for blowing bubbles and as an eye lotion; Three-In-One Oil, best yet for
greasing the cat's tail so the darling can pull it and not hurt the feline; Never-Hook Safety pins to swallow
when hungry or teething; Chevrolet Muffler or Maxim Silencer for at midnight when the colic is at the worst; Cut
glass teething ring.

For Grandma: Set of Ma Jongg (we do not know whether there is any Grandma Jongg as yet); Silver-plated flash;
Coty’s Orange Rouge; Colt Automatic Special for controlling Grandpa; Golf Clubs; Stutz Speedster, Pogo Stick.

For Little Brother: LePages Glue to put in dining room chairs; Gordon Ever-Stretch Silk Hosiery, size 13-1/2 for Christmas stocking;
Dutch Cleanser for use on ears; Tasmanian Tea Hound to play with; Burglar-proof toy bank; Candy; Castor Oil.

For Grandpa: Complete assortment Bryan’s Monkey Glands; Stacomb; Golf Socks; Dermalax Beauty Clay; Subscription to Whizbang or S. S. Weekly.

For Mother: Dictionary to find new words to call Father when he forgets to mail letters; a perpetual cook who
never quits nor wants time off; Cook book that pleases everyone; Hoyle’s Bridge Rules.

For Sister: Subscription to True Confessions; Pearl beads, nearly enough for evening; Home Marcelling Outfit; Complete set of Freud’s works;
Peroxide or Henna; Pulverized Wool Sport Coat; Cretonne Knickers.

For Pa: A new Check Book.

Heard on the Glee Club Trip
George Dupuy (As train goes over high trestle)—“Oh Golly, look out there! Everybody get in the middle, quick!”

Do You See the Point
After Reid Maxwell left Shorter College at Rome, he raved for three days about what a fine place Shorter is.
Well, we once heard a girl contend that Davidson was lots better than Yale or Oxford, and she had never
been here and the only person she knew who comes here is Bill McClain. After the Glee Club left Brenau,
Tootie Crayton’s watch was 20 minutes fast, but he decided that it didn’t matter, since he was in Gainesville. Watt
McCain discovered that the longer you linger at Shorter the longer you want to linger. One girl to another at
Anderson College—"Hey, you walking dictionary!” Okey Allison (Just coming in)—“Yes, dear, what is it?”

Fresh Freckles with his girl at Converse—
Julia—"Gosh, you know gym sure did bum me up last week.”
Brown was talking
Freckles—“Cave-man stuff, eh? I’ll fix him.”
Julia—"Dumb-bell, not a man, gymnasium.”

Passing Reviews
Capt. Ramsey—"Had a review in R.O.T.C. this morning.”
Sgt. Thompson—"Jha pass it?”
Ramsay—"Yeah, before the governor.”

A playful crook is Teese McSween,
He loves to gambol on the green,
A playful chap is Sophomore Hall,
He loves to play with billiard balls.

RED AND BLACK GRAPPLERS
(Continued from page 2)
The schedule calls for some of the matches while not all have been definitely decided, most of them will be
held. The Carolina and Trinity bouts will be held on the hill. Two trips will be made, both to Virginia,
and meeting experienced wrestlers. The schedule is as follows:
Carolina at Davidson, February 7th.
V.P.I. at Blacksburg, February 16th.
U. of Va. at Charlottesville, February 18th.
Trinity at Davidson, February 23rd.
W. & L. at Lexington, February 29th.
V.M.I. at Lexington, March 1st.

A universal custom that benefits everybody.
Aids digestion, cleanses the teeth, soothes the throat.
FLAVOR LASTS

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
