THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

TRINITY TO BE MET IN FORENSIC STRUGGLE

The intercollegiate debate with Trinity will take place in Shearer Hall on the evening of April 27th. The subject will be “Resolved that the issuance of tax-exempt securities should be forbidden by an amendment to the Federal Constitution.” Davidson will defend the negative side of this query.

A large number of men have expressed their intention of going out for this debate. The preliminaries take place in Phi Hall Friday evening, March 23rd. Although all of those who will take part in the preliminaries are new to intercollegiate contests, yet they are men who have had much experience in the literary societies here in college and who are fitted in every way to uphold the forensic honor of Davidson. The most prominent of those who intend to try out are Baldwin, Cox, Elkins, Burney, and Bradford.

This will, in all probability, be the only intercollegiate debate of the term, the proposed one with Wake Forest having fallen through. However, the Debating Council is still trying to secure another. The intercollegiate record of Davidson is one to be proud of. Since 1909 she has won eleven and lost nine.

EUMENEAN SOCIETY HAS BUSINESS MEETING

The Eumenean literary society held its regular meeting Thursday night after the life service sermon by Doctor Clark. The regular program was omitted and the meeting was given over to business.

The Society decided to invest in a pin more elaborate and more expensive than the pin first presented to the society by the committee. George McLean was appointed to secure designs and prices to present to the Society. The Eumenean wants a distinctive pin and a pin each member will wear with pride. After disposing of various minor details of business, the society adjourned.

PANDEMIC SOCIETY HAS INTERESTING PROGRAM

As the Pandemic Society meeting was scheduled for the same night that the fire took place in the Eu Hall, the members withdrew in favor of the prevailing smoke and the scene of activity was shifted to Dr. Sentelle’s classroom. The change, however, in environment did not affect the meeting unfavorably as it was quite up to par.

The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That Ulster should join the Irish Free State.” The affirmative was represented by Ford and Hollingsworth; the negative by Milton and Yeargan. The negative won the decision of both the house and the judges.

Warren Cox delivered an oration on “The Truth and Cause of the Divorce Evil.” He brought out strongly the fact that it is not in the divorce laws that the cause of remedy lies, but in ourselves. It is only through regeneration of the morals of the nation that this menace to the foundation of our civilization can be driven out. C. A. Young rendered the current events.

At this meeting, plans were adopted for an individual diploma plate for the society so that the members who graduate this year and hereafter shall receive diplomas printed by their own plate.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON INITIATES THREE MEN

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemical fraternity held its regular meeting Friday, March 16th. The headliner on the program was the initiation of three new members, all of whom have stood out prominently along chemical lines in their college activities. The three initiates were R. R. Jones, W. Z. Bradford, and Marion Murray.

The goat never bumped quite as pleasingly before, and the greased pole, which was climbed by the three aspirants, was greasy as soap on a railroad track. Much material good, as well as amusement, was received by both the initiates and the initiators. Consequently, the new members carried a pensive mood around with them the next day.

Refreshments of a high order were served and enjoyed by all. The three faculty members present: Dr. Arbuckle, Professor Thies, and Professor Currie, carried the same satisfied smiles as the students when the repast was completed. Many chemical improvements in the constituents of the food were suggested, but no one seemed so dissatisfied as to desist from partaking of it. Much benefit was gained by the exchange of ideas and by the short talks from Dr. Arbuckle, Professor Currie, and Professor Thies. The new brothers, who had been wearing their “test tubes” around for several days, were complimented upon their attainments in chemistry and were wished much success by the faculty members.

SENIORS’ PETITION TO FACULTY IS DECLINED

The petition of the Senior class to be allowed to attend church services under the honor system, after being carefully considered by the Executive Committee, did not feel justified in annulling a law of the institution which has been in force since the founding of the institution. It was in order to preserve this custom of compulsory attendance at the morning service that the college went to the expense of building an addition to the church. Until this was completed, the Senior class was put on its honor to attend either the morning or evening service, each man reporting his own absence. But now that sufficient room has been provided so that all the students may attend the morning service, the faculty feels that the present Senior class should submit to the old ruling.

In submitting their decision, the Committee said that they had faith in the Senior class to believe that they would carry out their promises, and that this was not the faculty’s reason for declining their petition.

QUEER TURKISH TRIBE INHABITS WEST’S HALL

The burning of Watts has led to the taking of the parlor of West by a strange Nomadic tribe of Turks. The head of this tribe is Sheik Halidad Karavan Russell, with his famous harem. He has decorated his new dwelling place in truly oriental fashion and there with his many wives he resides peacefully. The women are reported to be the fairest ever gathered around a Sheik throne. Most of them are gifts from the Sultan of Turkey, Okeida Jabel Allison, and they are said to be very loving and affectionate. Since coming into America they have discarded most of the Turkish customs prevalent among women of harems. One of them, however, Willide Jerusalem Cooper, still persists in wearing her uniform of the Royal Order of Turkish Cosmetics, of which she was a prominent member. The movement of this organization is somewhat similar to that of the American Suffragettes. She is much too ambitious to be very loving and the Sheik spends most of his leisure hours in the company of his other two beauties, Jezebelidid McCutchen and Jabezine McCallum. The Sheik is very fond and proud of his harem and when the haze of smoke arising from his Cubeb cigarette is lifted he may be seen on his exalted throne in the tender embrace of his three loving wives.

Dramatic Club to Publish (Continued from Page 1)

It is hoped that this will be established as an annual custom. By this means the work of the club will be published and made known to other similar organizations, and through mutual constructive criticism dramatic work will advance even more than it has in the past. It has been only recently that dramatics have taken the important place that they now hold. To a large extent the work is replacing the glee clubs and similar organizations, and is an improvement over any such organization. With the backing of the English department and especially of Dr. E. J. Erwin, who is the power behind the scenes, the Club is undeniably forging ahead. It is but another step in the development ofLiterary work for it gives opportunity to both the actor and the writer.

The Reel Stuff

The Movie management has announced that the picture for this week will be “When Knighthood Was in Flower.” The story pictures in palpitant life and action the greatest love narrative in English history. Shakespeare probably knew the romance of Mary Tudor, but as she was a near relative of Queen Elizabeth, he did not dare immortalize her in one of his historic dramas. The task remained for an American author of modern times—Charles Major. From his exhaustive studies of English History, he resurrected this stirring romance of the Tudor days.

One of the most thrilling and the most trying on the director was the tournament scene in which mounted knights dash at each other with drawn lances. Another thriller is where Charles Brandon and Princess Mary make a leap of thirty feet on horseback into the river. As Princess Mary Tudor, Marion Davies has by far the most important role of her screen career. In the role of the capricious sister of Henry VIII, who defies two kings and spurns a throne in order to marry the man she loves, Miss Davies has a role which requires the finest kind of acting.

THE CAST
Princess Mary Tudor...... Marion Davies
Charles Brandon............ Forrest Stanley
King Henry VIII............. Lyn Harding
Queen Catherine............. Theresa Maxwell Conover
Duke of Buckingham.... Pedro de Cordoba
Lady Jane Bolingbroke...... Ruth Shepley
Sir Edwin Caskoden.... Ernest Glendenning
Cardinal Wolsey.......... Arthur Forrest
Will Somers................. Johnny Dooley
The King’s Tailor.......... William Kent
Sir Adam Judson......... Sir Henry Brandon
Lord Chamberlain... ... Downing Clarke
Louis XII of France....... William Norris
Duc de Longueville......... Macey Harlam
Francis I..................... William H. Powell
Captain Pradhurst........... George Nash
Grammont................... Gustav von Seyffertitz
Captain of the Guard...... Paul Panzer
Follower of Buckingham..... Guy Combs

“Knighthood” has been said to parallel “The Birth of a Nation,” and “Robin Hood” by many of the foremost critics. It will be shown at the Gymnasium at 7:15 p.m. The admission fee will be fifty cents. ALL FRESHMEN WHO WANT TO SEE THIS PICTURE MUST BRING A CHAIR.

DR. DINE’S DAILY DOPE
(Continued from Page 4)

Dear Doctor: Everyone keeps noticing my upper lip. What must I do?
BOB McLEOD.
Answer: Dear Bob: Shave it off.
DR. DINE.

Dear Doc: My girl will not go out with me at night. What can I do?
L. B. FINN.
Answer: Try Auto-suggestion.
DR. I. O. DINE.

Dear Doctor Dine: I have a peculiar feeling of late. I can hardly eat at all and my sleep is restless. I have a funny feeling over my heart. What must I do?
D. B. WALTHALL.
Answer: Dear Mr. Walthall: Just invite her to Junior Speaking.
DR. DINE.

AN OVERSIGHT
We are proud of the fact that we are gentlemen at Davidson College. We hear this fact on all sides and are conceited enough to believe it. The most perfect mechanism gets out of order sometimes, good plans have flaws, the good, all-round man has his blemishes. Yet, if they be pointed out to him, he is glad to alter his machinery, change an item in his plans, and alter a deficiency in his character. Many times in church it may be hot, and we are uncomfortable; it

Mrs. Wearn of Charlotte, spent a few days with Mrs. W. R. Grey last week.

Four Strong Teams
(Continued from Page 1)

Year’s captain, will probably take care of the 440. Cromartie and Nappy Davis are showing up well on the middle distances, and it is likely that one of these men will find a place on the squad to complete the trio of middle distance men. In the sprints and distances, Coach Grey will have to rely largely on new men. Williford and Selser did some excellent running last fall with the cross-country squad and are making the others hustle for places in the mile and two-mile. With the loss of Ted Koenig due to an operation, and Jim Hendrix via baseball, the sprints are still wide open. Smith and Crane are promising new men, and with some hard work ought to come near filling the vacancies. Smith has the ideal sprinter’s build, combined with a pretty stride. Saturday was his first day out, but the showing he has already made makes him appear as the best prospect in the speed events. Cox, Bouvier, and Dick are making Crane and Smith work for their laurels. The high-hurdles will be amply taken care of by Streibich and Gracey, both veterans of former years; but a man for the low hurdles has yet to be selected from Parish, Sam Davis, Malloy, and Dick. The latter was a low hurdler a couple of seasons back, but it is doubtful if he can get back into shape in time to run that event this year.

The schedule this year calls for four hard meets, all of them with old rivals on the cinder path. As arranged by Manager Gallaway, it stands as follows:
April 5th, South Carolina at Columbia,
April 14th, N. C. State at Raleigh,
April 20th, Clemson at Davidson,
May 4th and 5th, Olympic Games at Durham.

“Love me, love my dog,” she murmured as she drew the be-ribboned Pekingese toward her. And then he began petting little Toto, too.

GAMBLE AND BARR ARE GASTONIA DELEGATES
On Sunday, March 11th, a deputation was sent out by the Christian Endeavor Training Class to the First Presbyterian Church of Gastonia. It was composed of two efficient members of the class, W. A. Gamble and T. C. Barr. They each made a brief talk to the Sunday School, after which they were given classes to teach. Gamble was fortunate enough to be allotted a girls’ class. In the afternoon, a conference was held with the officers and committee chairmen of the Senior C. E. Society. They talked at the meetings of both the Senior and the Intermediate Endeavor Societies and later spoke at the evening church service. The Endeavor work was started in Gastonia about a year ago by one of the members of this deputation, W. A. Gamble. At this time, he organized a Senior Society which has flourished and grown and which has been the nucleus around which other societies have been formed, so that at present there are three societies, Junior, Senior, and Intermediate.

The Misses Schofield have purchased a new Ford coupe.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Williams’ VII — the softest course in college
WILLIAMS’ VII is a course for every man in the institution. It’s seven times a week but the sessions are short—less than five minutes each. And best of all, no man who elects Williams’ ever fails—to get a better shave than he ever got before. The first thing you learn in shaving with Williams’ is of the remarkable beneficial effect it has on your skin. You can’t fail to be impressed—even after the closest examination—with the fact that here, at last, is a shaving cream which really does your face good. Then, especially if you shave yourself, you’ll be pleased with the efficiency of Williams’. It softens the beard in so much less time. It does everything a shaving cream is supposed to do. Get a tube of Williams’ today. Use it for two months. See then if you ever could go back to any other shaving cream.

Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!