THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923

ATHLETIC NEWS

Yard Lines

NEW FOOTBALL UNIFORMS Embody Improvements

The football uniforms of this season are quite different from those of last season. The jerseys are red with small
black numerals on them, while those of last year’s team were of a darker shade of red and had large
white numerals which were very prominent. The leather elbow pads are a very noticeable feature of the new jersey and
dispense with the elbow pads which had to be worn over last season’s jersey. The pads in the breeches of
this season’s uniform are in a solid piece which fit snugly over the leg and are more comfortable than pads
which are in slats. The socks of this year’s uniform are of a solid red which matches the jersey.

The following is a list of men who drew jerseys, with their respective numerals: Faison, 1; Hendrix, 2; Sappenfield, 3;
Mallory, 5; DeArmon, 6; Vance, 7; Cox, Phil., 8; White, H. M., 9; Buck, 10; Patterson, 11; Hunter, 12; Hunt,
13; Davis, 16; Cox, 17; Baker, 18; Alexander, 19; Long, 21; Fenton, 22; Boggs, 23; Covington, 24; Fields, 26; Shepard,
29; Black, 30; Anderson, 31; Laird, 32; Hodgen, 35; Summers, 36.

MANY ASPIRANTS FOR VARSITY TENNIS HONORS

Outside of football, the interest in athletic circles of Davidson College is turning toward tennis. This is evinced by the
large number of entries for the annual tennis classic at Davidson. Beginning Monday, the local understudies of Tilden will vie
with each other for the honors of the school and for some ten days the twang of the racket will
be heard from the Gym to the Chem. Lab. The entry list shows a number of names well past the
half-century mark, and among these contestants is a lot of likely looking material. From all reports, there is going to
be a spirited fight for the place left vacant last year on the team by the passing of Bradley. Three
letter men are left from last year’s team which will make the nucleus of this year’s squad. These are Staley,
Price, and Beall, who, with Hugh Bradley, made up the victorious outfit of last year. The team last spring made
a clean sweep of Clemson and V. M. I., beat W. & L. 4 to 2, tied V. P. I.,
and in the Carolina state tournament tied Carolina for first honors. The only reverse was given by Carolina on the
local courts in a post-season series, 5 to 1. With these excellent players back, a successful season is predicted. It
is thought that D. C. is on the verge of a new era in tennis from the interest that is
now taken in this sport, not only by the students, but by those in authority. Three new tennis courts are
to be constructed this fall and more are to come this spring. These, together with the number of students now
going out for tennis, should develop plenty of good material for future teams. At present, negotiations are in progress for
two or three matches to be played during the autumn. If things pan out favorably, Carolina, Trinity, and Wake Forest
will be taken on in the line-up. This far in advance it is not known whether these matches can be
arranged, but it is hoped that the team will be able to take a trip through North Carolina this fall.

TRACK PROSPECTS BRIGHT FOR APPROACHING SEASON

Within a couple of weeks, the call for fall practice for the track team will be sounded by Coach Younger
and Captain Streibich, and with eight letter men returning to form the nucleus, the prospects are bright for a good
team. As the Richardson Athletic Field nears completion with all the modern advantages for a track team, the feet of
the greyhounds of the cinder path are itching for the “feel” of the track. The following are the letter men
returning to Davidson: Captain C. M. Streibich, high hurdles, pole vault, and broad jump, holder of the Davidson College record
for the pole vault; Manager Red McComb, who broke the javelin record last year; W. M. Gracey, who has won
several first places in hurdles and pole vaults at the past state meets; Hed Koenig, who was the flash of
the 1921 team but was out on account of an operation last spring; Spec McConnell, holder of the college mile
record; Jim Hendrix, for the quarter mile and dashes; H. H. Lindamould, who showed up well with the weights. W.
F. Galloway, captain of the 1922-23 team, who ran the half mile, is back in school but will probably be
kept too busy with other work to run this spring. The cross-country team will be the principal thing to develop
this fall, for with the coming state cross-country run approaching, Captain Streibich wants as many men out as possible when
the track is completed. Chapel Hill and Williford will both be back from last year’s team. In a short time,
the exact date for the class track meet here will be decided. The class winning the largest number of points
at this meet will be the line-up.

HOWLING WINS BY W. F. GALLOWAY

That’s the start, Wildcats, keep it up.

—D—

P. C. Friday and then V. P. I. Revenge on the Bluestockings and a ditto or better with the Gobblers.
That's the program for the next two acts.

D 19-0. That reminds us of that fight in Atlanta last year.

The Presbyterians have seven or eight letter men back, but their biggest asset will always be Coach Walter Johnson. You
have to hand it to Coach Johnson. He's right there.

Da

There’s a fellow named Martin down on the P. C. squad. The only thing we have against him is that
he is “Piggy” Martin’s brother. “Piggy” says that he’s going down to Rock Hill to help carry “Bubber” to the
hospital. Dope from Clinton has it that the P. C. team will have a couple of “cowboys” from the wild
and woolly west in football games. The South Carolinians seem to think the broncho-lads can handle Wildcats. Perhaps they could
handle ordinary Wildcats, but when Shepherd and Hendrix get started, ordinary Wildcats aren't in it.

The Durham Herald wants to know what's become of the Wildcat’s howl. It’s too bad that the Herald thinks Wildcats
have started out this year to use their claws and make the other fellow howl.

py

Reports from V. P. I. say that the Gobblers miss Wallace, Hardwick, Wilson, Moore, and Tilson. We reckon they do
miss them. Some of those other names sound like Davidson, 7, V. P. I., 7. Get in there and scrap
’em this year, Wildcats.

ps

All the dope points to a scrap to the finish down in Rock Hill, Friday. In four years, neither the
Bluestockings nor the Red and Black have been able to score more than a touchdown a game. The South Carolinians
have a one-point margin. Something is due to break this year—but not the Wildcats.

—D.

The report is that “the reliable Heckman” is back in harness with the Wake Forest Baptists; Heckman has spoiled the
Red and Blacks’ joy twice already in the annual battle on Wearn Field and is always a dangerous man. Trinity
has a squadof 120 men, including 11 letter-men, eight from the squad of last year and three who have returned
from the team of '21. In other words, the Methodists have a ready-made team, while Coach Monk has the chance
to make one to order.

FRESHMEN GIVEN STIFF TRAINING IN YELLING

The Davidson student body is well known for the loyal support that it gives its athletic teams, and a large
part of the training of every Freshman at Davidson consists in learning the college songs and yells. This year the
new men have been put through their paces by Okey Allison and his loyal corps of efficient assistants. Practice began
last Friday night a week ago and has been continued every day since. The first night was merely a starter,
but beginning on Monday night the Freshmen were put through in dead earnest. On Tuesday night, Faison, the captain of
the football team, made a short talk on the immense value to the team of real support. On Wednesday night,
Hendrix made a talk on the same line, and Gig Shepherd spoke on Thursday night.

As a result of this practice, the Fresh have been doing as well as could be expected. A new yell,
the clap yell, has been learned already, and several more are to be learned during the year. At present, it
seems as if the upperclassmen are depending on the Fresh to do all the yelling. At the Elon game, at
least three-fourths of the noise was made by the new men. While it is eminently fitting that this noise should
be made, yet the upperclassmen could do a little more and not hurt themselves. Let's all get in behind this
team of ours and give it the support that it so richly deserves.

DR. MIMS (Continued from page 1)

in the ultimate realities of the spiritual life. It is my purpose in this lecture to analyze these tendencies and
then to suggest to you why I believe with all my heart and my mind and my strength in the
second of these tendencies. Very frankly, I am calling for recruits in this army which is waging a desperate battle
for the maintenance of faith and loyalty and idealism. This is why I have entitled this lecture "The Fight for
Idealism in America."

“I use the term ‘idealism’ in no technical sense, that is, not in a strictly philosophical sense. In practical ethics,
it is the opposite of utilitarianism, in philosophy of materialism and determinism, in literature of realism or, better still, naturalism.
Necessarily, an indifferent man or pessimist or a cynic cannot be an idealist at the same time.

“The fundamental trouble with much of the restlessness and pessimism of the present time is a lack of courage—courage to
face the difficulties of life and the deficiencies of thinking.

“If we cannot know all within the human lock, is it not worth while to know something, and yet more
and more? If we cannot attain to pure beauty, is it not something to realize beauty in music and art
and literature, even though they but suggest a greater glory than can ever be realized? And is it not worth
while to trace love’s faint beginnings in mankind, to see the light of love shining over the home and in
the eyes of loved ones, even though we can never reach the infinite love? In failing to be reasonably satisfied
with these limitations of life, may we not really be evading the issues, may we not be cowardly in shirking
the duties that confront us?

“I should think that I had failed to complete this discussion if I did not make clear to you that,
in my opinion, religion is the most important basis of real hope for the future of mankind. William James did
a remarkable thing when he wrote his Varieties of Religious Experience, in which he practically said to scientists and psychologists,
‘You have studied every other fact in the universe from the scientific standpoint except religion, and that is the most
important fact of all.’ Shall we not say, then, that in considering the conflict which we have outlined in this
lecture, we cannot leave out of consideration the most vital of all facts?”

TODAY! - ALSO... Friday and Saturday GREENTREE’S will display in the parlor of West a complete line of Fall Clothes,
Haberdashery, Shoes, Overcoats, and Top Coats. Drop in and look them over.

ZANDER McALISTER Representative

WILL THE WILDCATS WIN? HAS THE RUHR SETTLEMENT BEEN REACHED? Read the Charlotte Observer and keep up with the world’s
news. Let us give you rates for subscriptions or renewals.

ELKINS and McALPIN Best Place to Eat

Several of our opponents swing into action next week. Carolina meets Wake Forest at Chapel Hill, with the indicators of
the sport-wizards pointing to a big score for Carolina. Last year it was 62-3. Trinity will meet Guilford. V. P.
I. will open up with Hampden-Sidney, and N. C. State will trot forth her wolf-pack against Randolph-Macon.

The figures for the Cornelius fracas don’t look so bad. The individual gains are as follows:

Davidson:
Black. 2. --. <---> 34
1st and 3rd ath Total appenicld: ssa sen ee 25
Elon De, Blon Bicy lon D.C, Wee"'D.c, Elon D.C.
first downs —---_~- O28) 22 OR Oe (Ol 28 22 12
Gr'd, ga’d thru line. 1 35 26 20 O 14 O O 35 69
Gr'd lost thru line__ 0 0) 1 10 10 11 11
Gr'd gained around end..0 6 0 12 0 55 0 63 O 136
Elon: Potal ------------ 290
Gr'd lost at end___. 0 0 O Oo © © © @O @ (0)
Passes attempted__. 0 0 1 (O) peril ar Genesee oral 8
Passes completed __ 0 O O OF Ora OR S120 5
Gr'd gained, passes. 0 0 0 0 0 69 0 7+ 0 76
Net ground gained_. 1 41 26 32 0107 2 GO 23 280
Total ------------ 28
Length kick off 40 38 2 5 401% 411
Length punts --____ US) 34 23 35 45 «(27 3914
Return kick off -__- § 18 12 18 10 15-23
Return punts:——==—= 0000-20 2
Penalties --------- 0. Ope0:-,0. 0 15.7015. .0 30

The Civic Club Library wishes to announce that its shelves will be open for the use of its patrons on
Monday and Friday of each week, from five to six in the afternoon.
