THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 18, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH........... Forum Editor
L. D. ELKINS........... First Managing Editor
R. C. AIKEN........... Campus Editor
W. M. HESTER........ Second Managing Editor
D. H. OGDEN........... Assistant Managing Editor
R. R. JONES........... Assistant Managing Editor
W. T. ELLIOT.......... Social Editor
E. H. MAUZE.......... Athletic Editor
H. M. MORRIS......... Literary Editor
C. F. WILDMAN........ Alumni Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD....... Press Editor
W. M. McGUGAN....... Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU
W. Z. BRADFORD....... Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY....... Assistant Manager
Assistants: H. H. SMITH, C. F. BARRINGTON, J. MINTER, J. APPLEBY, J. M. McINTOSH, CLAUDE RICHFORD, R. V. D.

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
W. J. COOPER.......... Business Manager
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, G. WEEKS, and W. G. GUILLE... Advertising Solicitors
JAMES McCULLEN....... Office Assistant
J. S. ROSCH........... Advertising Copy

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN.......... Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON........ Asst. Circulation Mgr.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
BROWN, W. P., Pres.
McILWAIN, M. PRICE, R. T.
SMITH, R. H., Vice-Pres.
McIVER, SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V., Sec.-Treas.
MAUZE, G. W.
WALTHALL, D. B.
ALLISON, O. J.
MOFFETT, A. N.
WHARTON, D. B.
CALHOUN, M. P.
MOORE, W. H.
WILDMAN, A. C.
EARNEST, J. R.
PATTON, J. H.
WHITE, H. M.
GALLOWAY, W. F.
POMEROY, W. L.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
LAKE, J. A.
PRICE, H. B.

On account of the exams which will soon be here, it will be necessary to omit two issues of THE
DAVIDSONIAN. While the staff would like, if possible, to publish both these issues, there is so very little news to
be had during exams, and so much more concentrated and continuous work required of most of the members of the
staff and reporters that it seems best to omit these issues.

The actions of the Court of Control these past few weeks certainly show that they mean business. Never in its
whole history did hazing do as much toward cutting out jibing and improving conditions among the freshmen as this court
is doing. Their stand is one that should be admired by all of us, and the attention they are giving
this problem appears to be the means of settling it in the best possible way.

Exams mean a good deal to us. They count one-third of our grade for the term. The schedule that the
faculty has arranged gives practically everyone a chance to have enough time to prepare their exams well. The hardship that
must necessarily be placed upon some with so many subjects to be taken should only be an incentive to them
to work the harder. This term is a good one to begin lowering the number of failures which has run
so high lately.

A NOTE OF SADNESS

Every man at Davidson has heard with the deepest feelings of sorrow and sympathy of the recent bereavement of our
fellow student, J. M. Polk. Especially was this tragic news of the death of both his parents a shock to
those of us who were here last year and heard with so much interest and pleasure the sermon that his
father preached the Sunday that he was here visiting his son, and the other talks that he made to groups
of the students on that day. In these columns we would like to express for the whole student body, the
sympathy that we all feel for the sufferer, and our earnest hope that he may again take his place among
us and allow us to bear with him this misfortune.

THE CAMPUS

Lately we have been getting more and more careless in our attitude toward keeping the campus looking as it should.
Davidson has been widely known because of the beautiful campus that she has, and the spring is the time when
this beauty is most pronounced. Possibly with Chambers in ashes and the earth torn up around the two new dormitories,
some of us are prone to be less interested in the appearance of the rest of the campus, and be
content to complain about how bad these things make it look. Now is the very time, however, when all should
take just the opposite position and because of these blemishes, we should strive to make everything else look better. The
thing that perhaps contributes most to a pretty campus is the grass and with it the trees. In both of
these particulars, we are very fortunate at Davidson. Our trees are arranged quite artistically, and the grass that grows here
has been and could be extremely pretty. We, ourselves, are doing more than anybody to keep it from growing as
it should. Four years ago when the present seniors came to Davidson, a great deal more thought was given the
grass, and hardly any of the short cuts which now seem so necessary to us were used at all. No
one suffered from the lack of these, however, and the campus was much improved without them. Recently we have all
been requested to give some attention to this matter, and the freshmen have been required by the Court of Control
to observe the rules which all of us should live up to. Posters, also, have been put up to remind
us of what we are doing, whenever we might carelessly or unconsciously start across a particularly exposed plot of grass.
With all these facts in mind, can’t all of us, not the freshmen only, stick to the old and new
walks which are certainly more numerous than ever before, and lead in every direction that we can possibly want to
go, thus saving the grass from the many ugly blemishes that are now constantly appearing on it, and keeping our
campus as pretty as possible.

Stop—Think and Study

It has been decreed by the powers that be that our vast amount of ignorance shall be brought to the
forefront starting Saturday a.m. Would that it were not so but alas it is. Our exams are upon us and
most of us are unprepared for them. Some are discouraged and are ready to give up the ship. Fellows, it’s
not too late to buckle down and pass our work. It makes one feel pretty bad to glance through the
big record book in the Registrar's office and see the records of the failures there. When we look at the
record of our four years in college written there in black and white and stop and think that that is
what we will be remembered by when we have left these halls, it makes us sad to find how we
have wasted these valuable years of our youth. How much would we Seniors give to erase some of those disreputable
marks from our record. It is too late for us to do that now. It is not too late for
you Junior, Sophs, and Freshmen to write records for yourselves that you can be proud of when you leave this
college. It will only be a matter of a few years before we will be forgotten on this campus, even
the faculty will have only dim recollections of us. When anyone writes back here for our record they will turn
to the thumb-marked pages of the old record book and see by many of our names “passed by re-examination.” Think
about these things when you are getting ready for your examinations and try all the harder, knowing that you are
making a record that will stand for or against you as long as the college lasts.

LOOKING AHEAD, Keep Off the Grass!

Doctor Martin has made the request that students refrain from walking on the grass and from making new paths across
the campus in various places. In accordance with this request the Court of Control has issued orders that no Freshman
be allowed to walk on the grass at any time, and have requested that the rest of the student body
co-operate with them in this respect. These resolutions are very well, but there is one thing that the Court of
Control has overlooked. That thing is the R.O.T.C. The R.O.T.C. drill and exercises are slowly but surely treading down every
blade of grass on the most beautiful part of the campus. During the winter months, the drill areas are completely
barren and during the summer the growth is so slow and the appearance is so ragged as to be noticed
by a mere passerby. For several years Davidson has possessed one of the most beautiful campuses in North Carolina. None
can deny that it is being terribly mutilated and parts of it are even being destroyed. Can the alumni, the
faculty, the student body, or any who are interested in Davidson College, stand idly by and see the destruction of
so cherished a possession?Spot? On the other hand, we would not have the R.O.T.C. driven from the campus regardless of
the suitability of other areas, but we see no reason why a portion of the golf links could not be
used for this purpose. Even the athletic field at certain seasons of the year could be used with little or
no damage to itself, certainly providing a better drill area than that now in use. Even if both these two
places prove inadequate, do the benefits derived from the R.O.T.C. merit the destruction of our beautiful campus, or should a
field be provided for drilling purposes?

HALT.

If the day looks kinda gloomy
And your chances kinda slim,
If the situation’s puzzling
And the prospects awful grim;
And perplexities keep pressing
Till all hope is nearly gone,
Just bristle up and grit your teeth
And keep on keeping on.
—Exchange.

“Two negroes, Sam and Rastus, thought their boss was keeping them past quitting time, so they decided to buy a
watch together. Sam was agreed upon to be the timekeeper, neither negro, however, could tell the time, but they were
too proud to let each other know this fact. The next afternoon Rastus said to Sam: “Say, niggah, wot time
am it?” Sam pulling out the watch and thrusting it into Rastus’ face, said: “Dere it am.” Rastus looked at
the watch doubtfully, scratched his head and said: “Darn if it in’t.”
—Black and Blue Jay.

Hymn—“I wanta dance the worst way.”
Him—“Well, we can go home.”
—Log.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

Publisher—You say you have written a book entitled “Why Boys Go to College.” What do you know about it? You're
no college boy.
Fair Authoress—No, but I used to be a chorus girl.

Breathes there a man with soul so dead
Who never to the world has said
As he cracked his dome on the upper bed:
—Exchange.

The Modern Girl’s Education Is Considered Finished When She Can Resist a Kiss Just Long Enough Not to Miss It.
—Black and Blue.

She isn’t very pretty,
But she wears the sort of clothes
So that style and pep and grace and
What she has of beauty shows.
She isn't very witty,
But her drawly sort of voice
And inflection and expression
Make her bits of humor choice.
She isn’t quite a feather,
But she’s just chock full of pep;
And she'll follow close and tender
When you shake a snaky step.
She's tickle as the weather,
But she’s fickle, too in line,
So I love her when I'm with her
For when she’s with me she’s mine.
—Exchange.

Insane Man—"Bring me a piece of toast.”
Attendant—“What do you want with a piece of toast?”
Insane Man—“I’m a poached egg and I want to sit down.”
—Bearcat.

“You wish to enter the diplomatic service. Can you give any proof of discretion?”
“Yes, sir; I once entered a bathroom when a lady was in the bath.”
“Yes. What did you do?”
“I said, ‘I beg your pardon, sir,’ and withdrew.”
—Burr.

And when it rains, it rains alike
Upon the just and unjust fellah,
But more upon the just because
The unjust steals the just’s umbrella.
—Phoenix.

Marie—“Here’s a joke that a Sunday school teacher told me when we were walking home from church yesterday.”
Esther—“Be careful now until we get past these little boys.”
—Gargoyle.

Myself

I have to live with myself, and so
I want to be fit for myself to know.
I want to be able as the days go by
Always to look myself straight in the eye.
I don’t want to stand with the setting sun,
And hate myself for the things I’ve done.
I don’t want to keep on a closet shelf
A lot of secrets about myself,
And fool myself as I come and go
Into thinking that nobody else will know
What kind of a man I am.
I don’t want to dress myself up in sham.
I want to go out with my head erect,
I want to deserve all men’s respect;
And here in the struggle for fame and pelf,
I want to be able to like myself.
I don’t want to look at myself and know,
That I’m a bluff and bluster and show.
I never can hide myself from me.
I see what others may never see.
I know what others may never know
I never can fool myself, and so
Whatever happens I want to be
Self-respecting and conscience free.
—Spectator.

“What'll I send me brudder fer Christmas?”
“Send him a pair o’ socks.”
“Naw, ’e’s got a pair o’ socks.”
—Log.

Co-Ed—Say, I'd like to try that suit on in the window.
Clerk—Sorry, but you'll have to use the dressing room.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson Wins From Washington and Lee

Davidson opened her 1918 season by winning from Washington and Lee on their home floor Friday night. The final score
was Davidson 33, W. and L. 20. The Generals were expecting a rather easy time, but the Wildcats led by
Hengeveld and King, were too much for them. For such a defeat on their home floor, W. and L. has
no alibi to offer—the visitors just outplayed them. No news was received from the V.M.I. and B.M.I. games in time
for publication, but we are expecting the team to “keep up the good work.”

Two Carloads of Coal Will Be Secured

Despite all rumors to the contrary, there will be no holidays for the Davidson students on account of scarcity of
coal. Mr. Jackson, when interviewed, blew up all hopes by smiling and reading the following statement from Clinchfield Fuel Company:

“We hope to get you out another car of coal by tomorrow (January 18) or Saturday at the outside, and
it should reach you in ample time for your requirements. We will get out another car by the 24th at
the outside, if something very serious does not happen.”

Of course, with railroad traffic demoralized, it is not certain when the car will reach here, but alas! there is
at least three weeks’ supply on hand in the college bins. It has been decided to discontinue heating the gymnasium
as this is not absolutely necessary. The outlook for the town is not so bright. There is very little coal
in the yards and a great many unfilled orders on the books. Coal is being sold only in half-ton lots
or less, as there is no certainty as to when the next shipment will be here. The town people are
urged to co-operate with the local dealers in every way.

D. S. FAISON TO CAPTAIN
(Continued from Page 1)

‘Lias has developed into a powerful fighting Wildcat. His grim doggedness on the defense has been one of the brightest
spots in the Wildcat game. Nothing more than his fierce tackling and driving offense could be responsible for the outcome
of the V.P.I. game of the present season. Under the generalship of Faison the Wildcats should fight a winning fight.
The team of 1923 should retrieve all lost ground, conquer new territory and make football history for D.C.

COACH HENGEVELD GROOMS
(Continued from Page 1)

form, but on the whole were not up to form, the close score making it interesting for the spectators. DeArmon,
Elkins and McConnell showed up well for the scrubs and gave the regulars a hot battle for about 30 minutes.
The ball was kept in scrub territory during the majority of the contest.

The schedule, while not a long one, will tax the ability of the squad. The big game of the season
is the Trinity game in Charlotte on the 6th of February. Last year after being nosed out at Durham on
the Methodist’s home floor, the Wildcats carried off honors playing on a neutral floor in Charlotte. Last year, in revenge
for the football defeat at the hands of the Old Gold and Black, the Wildcats won every other athletic contest
with Wake Forest. This season the tie rankles in the minds of the Wildcats and they are out to repeat
last year’s performance. Rumor had it that Heckman would not play this year, but he played against William and Mary
and his close guarding accounted in large measure for the Baptist’s victory. Heckman’s presence on the basketball floor, as on
the gridiron, multiplies the strength of the team and Wake Forest will have a hard team to beat.

The Tar Heels once more steer clear of the Wildcat’s claws. Because of their refusal to play on a neutral
floor or on the home and home plan no terms could be agreed upon. The Carolinians have a strong team
this year, but it is hardly likely that they will repeat their last season’s victory at the Southern tournament. N.C.
State is another formidable opponent. Last season the Wildcats nosed out two victories by scant margins. The State games this
year loom up as among the hardest. The Elonites also give the Davidson team a scrap. The game on their
floor will be a hard one to cop. As matters stand now, the Wildcats are starting on their greatest season
backed by 500 men who believe they can and will win.
