Boa aptists Ti: DAVIDSONIAN Good-bye PADDLE FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923 No. 25

STUDENT BODY ABOLISHES ALL FORMS OF HAZING

JUNIOR SPEAKING GOES ON RECORD MOST BRILLIANT AFFAIR STAGED AT DAVIDSON

Black Cat Cabaret Closes Period of Gay Festivities

Gymnasium is Scene of Elaborately Planned Fete Which Served as Fitting Finale.

King Tut, of Luxor Valley fame, renowned for the dazzling splendor and gaud of his Egyptian court of antiquity, blinked his eyes and shrunk into the shadows when he beheld the ostentatious display of Junior week. Junior Speaking of 1923, just past, the product of tireless effort and wonderful class spirit that speaks in no meager terms for the class of ’24, goes down in Davidson annals as the grandest social occasion ever held in the little Presbyterian village. The Maroon and Gold, in the form of a huge flag bearing the numerals of the Junior class, was raised Friday morning with appropriate exercises, and justly proud did it wave throughout the entire speaking occasion.

If any one event of the week's calendar could be singled out as THE successful item of the festive affair, without any doubt the Black Cat Cabaret, held Saturday night, would be the unanimous choice. It was the glorious climax toward which every detail pointed and for which many days of preparation were spent. A mammoth electric sign in Maroon and Gold flashed out a welcome from the balcony of the gymnasium to the Black Cat Cabaret, imported from little old New York by M. Flop Beaver.

FOUR JUNIOR ORATORS WILL COMPETE AT COMMENCEMENT

Smith, Elkins, Cox and Walthall Chosen from Field of Prominent Society Orators.

The event which names the social occasion of the spring took place on Friday morning of Junior Speaking. Those who won the right to contest again at commencement for the Junior orator’s medal were B. Walthall, R. H. Smith, W. M. Cox, and L. D. Elkins. Preliminaries were previously held in each of the literary societies in which two men from each society were selected to represent their respective societies in this contest. The contest was held at 10:30 A.M. on Friday, March 30. Professor Wagner presided and Dr. T. W. Lingle pronounced the invocation.

H. M. White, the first speaker, took as his subject The Individual Responsibility. He compared America today to Judah in the times of Micah, showing that while Judah was the most moral nation of its time it was not excused from the curse of God, so while America is not the worst nation today, it will not be excused from its responsibility as a nation. White also demonstrated that the responsibility of the nation is the responsibility of each citizen of that nation. C. E. Hodgin was the next speaker.

(Continued on Page 5) (Continued on Page 7)

Three One-Act Plays By Dramatic Club Feature Speaking

Three one-act plays, I Do, by E. T. Woolfolk, The Christian Slave, by H. K. Russell, and Uncle Tommy's Harem, by W. F. Galloway, were presented before a capacity audience on Friday night of Junior Speaking in Shearer Hall. All three plays, written and acted by the Davidson Dramatic Club, met with an enthusiastic reception from the mixed audience of visitors, townspeople, and students.

The first play, I Do, was a delightful light comedy. Charles, played by E. T. Woolfolk, was the leading character. As he explained to Elizabeth, played by Jean Martin, at the opening of the play, the girl with whom he had been in love had jilted him owing to a misunderstanding. Peggy, played by Mrs. Josephine Moore, thinking that Charles had fallen for another girl, had set a wild pace and had become engaged to a silly young Englishman. At the wedding ceremony, after Reggie, played by Flop Beaver, had sworn eternal love, a fire had broken out which prevented Reggie from fulfilling her part in the ceremony. At this juncture, Reggie himself comes in and shows to Archie, played by Neal Jones, that he is not anxious for the ceremony to be completed. Soon he leaves and in comes Peggy, who, supposedly, has been sick since the fire. Charles re-enters here and reveals to her Reggie’s sentiments. He discovers that she is no more anxious to complete the ceremony than Reggie, and Elizabeth discovers that she did not really faint. Again Reggie comes in and Peggy proposes to go through the ceremony in practice. When she responds to the love and obey clause she answers most emphatically “I do not.” Consternation reigns, but soon everyone is satisfied and Charles, being innocent, as Peggy has discovered, answers in a triumphant affirmative to the same question. The whole play was unusually successful, the audience fully appreciating both the excellent characterization of the play by the author and the manner in which the actors interpreted their various parts. The acting of E. T. Woolfolk was up to his usual standard and Flop Beaver easily succeeded with his character part. Mrs. Moore made a charming heroine.

(Continued on Page 3)

Court of Control Adopted by Overwhelming Majority.

Time-Honored Custom Displaced After Three Months Trial Under New Regime.

ISSUE HARD FOUGHT.

Minority Votes to Make Decision of Majority Unanimous.

The student body of Davidson College on Saturday, April 7th, voted unanimously to abolish every form of hazing. The ballot was taken at the close of a three months’ period during which hazing was experimentally abandoned and the court of control adopted as a means of handling the freshmen class. As a result of the action, the student body was granted a holiday.

The vote was taken after a short discussion, which was opened by a talk by Buck Currie. Following his speech, J. I. Smith read the report of the Court's meetings during the time of its functioning and he was succeeded by speakers from the three upper classes who gave their views on the question. The movement culminating in the final abolition of all hazing originated among the leaders of the student body in the Senior class. Their plan of substituting the Court of Control for the Vigilance Committee was endorsed unanimously by their classmates and when the plan was proposed to the student body they approved it for a three months’ trial. The election Saturday marked the end of that period and the vote cast showed the realization of the student body.as a whole of the value of the system which is free of hazing. The Court of Control plan has been tried at other institutions and was adopted by the originators of the thorough abolition movement after an investigation of its merits and demerits. The attitude of the student body towards its record during the past three months shows a realization of its faults coupled with an appreciation of the fact that it has functioned very well under the circumstances. (Continued on Page 3)

Davidsonian Staff 1923-24

This is the first issue of the Davidsonian under the guiding hand of the newly chosen staff. Liston Elkins, editor-in-chief, announces his staff as follows: W. Z. Bradford, managing editor; C. M. S. McIlwaine and H. B. Price, assistant managing editors; W. F. Gallaway, athletic editor; W. M. Heston, Peanut Parcher and Exchange editor; W. M. Cox, A. C. Wildman, and J. A. Lake, associate editors; and R. R. Jones, alumni editor. The Open Forum, formerly handled by an individual editor, will now be conducted directly by the editor-in-chief. R. L. Price, business manager, announces his staff as follows: Watt McCain, circulation manager; P. J. Story, subscription manager; G. A. McClain, J. L. McLean, W. H. Cromwell, and J. A. Thompson, assistants.

CAPTAIN GALLOWAY PILOTS RED AND BLACK TO VICTORY

Red and Black Speedsters Wipe Out Last Season’s Defeat at Hands of Sandlappers.

Davidson's cinder packers nosed out the University of South Carolina in the last few events of a closely contested meet at Columbia last Thursday, winning by a three and third points margin. The final score was 47 2-3 to 54 1-3 in favor of Davidson. A drizzling rain throughout slowed up the meet considerably, but fairly good records were made in all events and the enthusiasm of the small crowd attending was aroused by the close score. South Carolina took the lead in most of the track events, with Davidson showing best form in the field contests. Davidson men, however, were finishing second and third in most of the runs, while Davidson, in the weight and field events, except broad and high jumps, was showing clean-cut superiority. The Wildcats placed first and second in three events: shot put, high hurdles, and javelin, while South Carolina accomplished the feat only once in the two-mile run.

Hendrix showed good form in the dashes, but getting away to a bad start in the hundred, and running the two-twenty first to the straight-away, was unable to overcome leads and finished second in both races. Wallace, of Davidson, literally strutted his stuff, scoring 13 points for his team, chalking up two firsts and a second. Gracey, the versatile athlete on the field, placed in two weight events and the high hurdles. Streiheck, next to Gracey in points, proved himself most valuable for Davidson, turning in nine marks for the team. (Continued on Page 2)

WILDCAT WARRIORS OPEN DIAMOND SEASON AND CONQUER SOUTH CAROLINA ON CINDERS

Split With Oak Ridge—Carolina Loss and Great Contest With State Open Season.

After splitting a brace of games with Oak Ridge in the season's openers, Captain Pat led his fighting nine to Gastonia Easter Monday to meet Coach Fetzer’s Tar Heels. But for the second inning, the Wildcats played stellar ball and Carolina had to fight for their 12 to 5 victory. With Trinity College canceling and Furman rained out, the Wildcats were idle Monday when the Techmen played on Sprunt Field. Larry Curtis and Neely Hunter staged a great pitchers’ battle, with honors about even, but an error followed by Johnson's double gave State the only run of the game.

N.C. State Game

In one of the best exhibitions of baseball ever seen on Sprunt Field, Davidson's fighting Wildcats on Monday afternoon spilled the dope and held the conquering N.C. State nine to a score of 1 to 0. The weather was cool for baseball. Spectators shivered in their seats, but not one could tear himself away from the gripping battle being staged on the diamond. From the tossing of the first ball across the plate until the last man was out in the ninth inning, the issue of the game hung as upon a thread. State’s only run came in the sixth inning. Ruth bunted, Brice made a wild throw over the first baseman’s head, and Ruth advanced to second when Gladstone was thrown out at first. Red Johnson stepped to bat, slammed a two-bagger into the left field fence, and scored Ruth. Correll also connected with a single, but Nealy Hunter pulled out of the hole without further scoring. State threatened again in the eighth, but brilliant work in the field prevented a score. Davidson's best chance to score was in the third inning when, with one man out, Hunter singled through shortstop, Richards was (Continued on page 8)

The elections for the past ten days of A. M. Hillhouse as president of the student body; W. T. Jones as president of the Y. M. C. A.; and W. M. Heston as editor-in-chief of the annual have seen three of the most important campus positions capably filled for the coming year of 1923-'24. In the student body election, Hillhouse won out over E. S. Faison after the other candidates, W. M. Cox, R. R. Jones, and J. I. Smith, had previously been eliminated. J. P. Hendrix and M. S. Beall were elected as the two vice-presidents from a field of contestants composed of A. W. McAllister, A. F. Milhouse, J. R. Briggs, and H. B. Price. Tom Baker was elected secretary and treasurer over Alex McMillan, L. P. Cox, and N. E. Sappenfield.

Pilots Of Student Activities Selected For Ensuing Year

In the election of Y. M. C. A. officers last Thursday morning, Jones was elected over the other nominees composed of A. M. McBryde, J. L. McLean, and W. M. Cox. McLean and Cox were eliminated on the first ballot, Jones and McBryde running on the second, the latter automatically getting vice-president. Harry Price was elected as secretary and treasurer over Mac Beall. The election of editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks was a class election in which the Juniors chose Heston by a one-vote margin over Watt McCain to produce the annual next year. Other nominees were Chipman and Jones. R. H. Smith was elected business manager over O. J. Allison, the other assistant manager of this year.

HATS OFF TO YOU ‘24!