THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

ALHAMBRA THIS WEEK
Herman Lewis Presents “Laughter Land”
——
NEXT WEEK
Guy “Jake” Johnson and his Dolly Dimple Girls
MATINEE DAILY
NIGHT 7:30--9

SHOE REPAIRING
Work Guaranteed
Collected every Monday
Prompt Delivery
Prices Reasonable
E. A. FRY
A. G. RAY, Rep.

No. 2 S. B. JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

(It is for the benefit of the new men that the following few words are printed.)

The Peanut Parcher is not a one-man proposition; it requires the co-operation of every man on the campus to make it what it is supposed to be—the cream of the campus wit. If you hear some joke while on class or during your daily wanderings, jot it down, and when you have time write it out and bring it to the Peanut Parcher editor at 108 West. It is impossible for one man to hear all of the jokes pulled on the campus and by the following plan a better and more representative Parcher will be assured. Freshmen need not be wary of turning in jokes on their elder brethren because their names will be withheld. Let’s all work together, fellows—Peanut Parcher Editor.

Have You Noticed It?
The campus is so fresh and green you'd think it was spring.

Who teaches Schedule? We need a good course in that.

A New Story
Have you met the fifth story? He is Paul Story’s brother. There is much speculation as to what we shall name him. Among others, the following names have been mentioned: Fifth Story, but as he is so small it would be better to call him the Attic. Moreover, if he possesses literary propensities he may be fittingly dubbed Short Story. At any rate let’s not call him a Liar.

Fresh, if you think this place is dead just take a stroll up to Mt. Mourne.

WANT AD—If any student has a cast-off pair of long trousers the same will be greatly appreciated by three members of the Freshman class whose names will be furnished upon request.

Say It With Flowers
Rastus (to deceasing brother)—What kind of flowers does yuh want on your grave?
Zeke—When Ah dies Ah wants some chrysanthemums on mah grave.
Rastus—Nigger, Ah wants what youse gwine need am some self-rising flower.

Don’t mind making suggestions for this department. We very probably won’t follow them so no harm will be done.

FACULTY AND OLD MEN (Continued from page 1)
formed the receiving line. Old scholars greeted their former professors while new men became personally acquainted with those men who will direct their courses in the future on the Hill.

After having received the warm welcome and hearty hand-shake extended by each member of the receiving line, the gathering was served refreshments from three booths that were decorated in those colors used in the color scheme of the room. The program of the evening was then rendered, with Piggy Martin acting as official announcer. His witty remarks in introducing each member of the program gave a touch of realism to the evening’s entertainment and drew round after round of applause from those assembled. After having apologized for the failure to use hand painted and highly tinted scenery, Piggy introduced his curtain for the evening.perform- ance. He called forth Fresh Love, the four-foot giant of his class, and Fresh Carrigan, the midget who towers six and a quarter feet, calling them the long and the short of the class.

The first number on the program was singing and banjo playing by Joe Earnest, the string musician from Chuckey, Tenn. His performance pleased the audience very highly, but he finally bade them adieu and gave way to the announcer.

As the second number on the bill, Freshmen Austin, Alexander, and Proveaux put on a feeble imitation of Davidson in the early seventies, when the pine board was the only board of control. Old men who were here at a later date than the early seventies termed the performance as mild. The Freshmen performed well, not to have been experienced youngsters at the game.

Piggy Martin then announced that the main speech of the evening, which was divided into four parts, would be given. Ted Jones, President of the Y.M.C.A., extended to the boys the best wishes of the association of which he is president and offered its services to the men at all times. He especially stressed attendance at the Sunday evening vespers. Coach “Monk” Younger expressed for the Athletic department a welcome to the new men and the goodwill of the football men, with an appeal to the student body for its support. Mr. Williams, new “Y” secretary, then welcomed the men again in the interest of the Y.M.C.A. and offered his personal services and those of the “Y” to all Davidson boys.

WELCOME NEW STUDENTS.

Dr. W. J. Martin, college president, extended the welcome of the faculty and entered a plea for more and better rooting from the student body. He urged upon the new men the necessity for better cheering for the school at all times. Following these addresses of welcome, Fresh Hall and Fresh Carrigan presented the skit “Early in the Morning—Late at Night.” The climax to the program was the movie, “The Law of the Lawless,” with Dorothy Dalton.

Extra copies of Bob McLeod's Annual are on sale at No. 9 Georgia. Autographed copies sell at a 15 percent reduction. As an added feature, these annuals contain a photograph of the editor. Only three hundred copies are left so come early and avoid the rush.

We have strong suspicions that Warren Cox’s peanut vendor contains something in it other than goobers because it gets lit up every night. Where’d you get it, Warren?

P. C. Henderson and Wallace Purdy have been nominated for candidacy in the race for presidency of Davidson’s Co-Ed Club, with By Jove Rogers running them a close second. All students are requested to drop their ballots in Coxe’s peanut vendor.

“Spoofy” Hillhouse almost got married this summer but the mule got sick and he couldn’t go to see her. (We mean his girl, of course.)

A certain Fresh informed us that Flake Laird is so slow that he has to carry his watch in his hip pocket so as to keep ahead of time.

Davidson’s golf course isn’t the only thing that boasts of holes. Just look at Main Street.

Price—Say, Speedy, do you know what you would remind me of if you were standing on a dime?
Speedy Car—Naw. What?
Price—Woolworth’s. Nothing over ten cents.

Mason Field (in chapel)—All Fresh bring their chairs to the gym tonight to sit on. We wonder if...

VICKS VapoRub
As a preventive, melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply a little up nostrils before mingling with crowds.

WRIGLEY'S
Have a packet in your pocket for ever-ready refreshment. Aids digestion. Allays thirst. Soothes the throat. For Quality, Flavor, and the Package.

KILLYNESS
Hieland Calf—a new leather imported from Scotland—has a luster & sturdiness unmatched. Worked into the KILLYNESS it makes a shoe of marked individuality for the campus, class, and street.

WM. D. Davidson
Sept. 26 and 27

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Victrolas, Victor Records, Steinway Pianos, Player Pianos, and Pianola Reproducing Pianos. Player Piano Rolls.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations. We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.