THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

LIFE CALLING

“The Young Man in Business” was the subject of a most informative and interesting address given by Mr. John R. Todd, a prominent architect of New York City, Tuesday night under the auspices of the International Relations Club. Mr. Todd showed a rare touch of sympathy and knowledge of the problems confronting the present generation of young men in regard to their vocation in life and his address, while delivered in a somewhat novel manner, was of a clearness and comprehension that made it doubly of interest to all those present. The speaker was introduced by Rev. J. C. Rowan, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, who was a former classmate of Mr. Todd.

Four main points were stressed by Mr. Todd in his address: Choosing one’s work, Attitude toward work, Listening, and Finishing chosen work. These salient points, as Mr. Todd said, determine the success or the failure of an individual who seeks fame and fortune through the channels of commercial life. The choosing of the right vocation and adhering to that, and a right attitude toward the conditions of life were stressed by the speaker, who drew largely from his own experience. Listening to the conversation of others instead of taking the leading part was also given as advice to those who would forge to the front. The finishing of any chosen task and perseverance in it through the ups and downs that are certain to come was stated by Mr. Todd as the biggest thing in business life. Confidence in one’s self and not too much forwardness in dealings with others was emphasized.

A good-sized portion of the student body heard this splendid address from such an authority as Mr. Todd and all seemed to deeply appreciate it. It was extremely helpful to all those contemplating business after their college life and also to anyone who desires to know how to meet the problems of present-day business life.

D. WARREN COX ELECTED PRESIDENT PANDEINICS

The elections for the Pandeinic officers of the coming year were held Tuesday, March 27. The installation will be held at the next meeting. The officers elected are as follows: President, W. M. Cox; V. Pres., H. B. Price; Secretary, F. S. Franklin; Critic, D. B. Walthall; Second Critic, C. M. S. McIlwaine; Treasurer, A. P. Hudgins; Sergeant-at-arms, L. L. Deck.

The program for the Pandeinic Literary Society on April 3, though not as full as usual, was a very good one, coming as it did directly after the Easter holidays. The debate was on the Fresh-Soph query: Resolved, That the United States should adopt the Cabinet-parliamentary form of government. There was one debater for each side—Garrison for the affirmative and Deck for the negative. Both speeches were well prepared but the decision was awarded to Deck. The oration was omitted. The declamation by L. B. Huie gave a vivid representation of a Battery Charge as a protest against the horrors of war, picturing what people call glorious in war in its naked, terrible form. R. M. Carr brought the program to a close by delivering his selections of current events.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATERS’ CONTEST FOR PLACES

The old Eu and Phi halls have, in their day, heard much fiery debating and yet the past two weeks have caused even their accustomed ears to prick up with heightened interest. The Pandeinics and Philanthropics have run off their Fresh-Soph debates. The Eumenean and Metrophilian societies were also scheduled to have theirs at this time but have postponed them until a later date of which more anon.

In the Philanthropic society, there were five men out. From these, three were to be chosen with one as alternate. The men selected were Holtshauser, J. E. of the Sophomore Class and Ratchford, B. U., White, W. W., and Barrington, J. C., the last giving an inkling of the numerous bull-sessions in which they have engaged. There were only three men out for the Pandeinic team from a scheduled eight. Consequently, all three men won “reps”. These lucky would-be debaters are Harry Price, A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., and H. L. Shaw, Jr. This team will represent the Pandeinics in their inter-society debate with the Metrophilian Society. At the same time, the Eumenean society will debate the Philanthropics. The winners of these two debates will meet for the society Trophy.

SEVEN GOLDEN QUILLS AWARDED REPORTERS

Golden quills for the past year have recently been awarded to seven members of the Reporters’ Club. The Golden Quill is the highest honor in the gift of the Reporters’ Club, and is awarded each year to not more than seven men on the reporter's staff of the Davidsonian, who have proved most valuable to the paper in length and nature of service. Those receiving quills at this time were, W. P. Brown, H. B. Price, M. P. Calhoun, C. M. S. McIlwaine, W. H. Sharpe, D. B. Walthall, and W. F. Galloway. All of these men have worked long and faithfully. The Reporters’ Club, according to the constitution of the club, receives a Golden Quill for that alone. H. B. Price has written a great deal in varied lines. M. P. Calhoun received this honor for his long and faithful service. C. M. S. McIlwaine has handled most of the athletic news. W. H. Sharpe has managed the Town News for the last year, one of the hardest jobs on the paper. D. B. Walthall turned in several big write-ups. W. F. Galloway has written many athletic news articles, and has also worked on the Press Bureau Staff.

Junior Speaking Goes On Record Most Brilliant Affair Staged at Davidson College (Continued from Page 1)

The Gym was clothed in the most appropriate attire, and it presented a wondrously attractive scene to the several hundred guests of the class of ’24. The overhead and wall decorations were in college and class colors. No detail was neglected and the spectacle presented a regular Fifth Avenue aspect. Myriads of balloons, paper hats, confetti, and numerous colored lights lent tone to the sight. Ushers in full dress toThe music par excellence of the Simpson Syncopators directed the visitors to attractively decorated tables where they were served in true cabaret style by the most formal cabaret waiters. The evening's program was appropriately begun with an overture, La Chasse Infernale, by Moszkowski, played by the Simpson Symphony Orchestra, led by John Simpson himself. His musicians were Stewart Buchanan, Frank Northrop, Johnnie Adams, and Walter Scott. Following them, the Original Spanish Serenaders rendered the Serenata Espana and numerous popular selections. This troupe was composed of L. D. Elkins, J. R. Earnest, W. H. Crane, and R. Q. M. Seago.

One of the most enthusiastically received numbers of the program was La Dance d’Aujourd'hui à la Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, presented by Tevick Bostwick, the “dancingest man in seven states,” and Dick Littlejohn, the woman in the case. The following number was a lecture by Prof. Rachmaninoff, M.A., Ph.D., L.L.D., 4620 F., in the person of Bob McLeod. The famous female educator took "Everything" as his subject, using a historical background in a very effective way during the presentation of his remarks.

Tubby and Piggy, Congo Comedians, whose surnames are Woolfolk and Martin, of Mr. Gallagher and Shean notoriety, were applauded vociferously and recalled to face the spotlight a full half a dozen times. Their ventriloquist act and their Mean Hard Luck skit, said to be the product of Tubby’s fertile brain, were parallel to the Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean comedy in every respect.

Martinelli, Galli-Curci, Shumann-Heink, and De Gogorza, better known as Watt McCain, Lias Faison, Buck Currie, and Ted being alternate, all of the freshman class. The subject for debate was, Resolved: That the United States should adopt the cabinet-parliamentary system of government. Holtshauser and Ratchford were especially good. Jones presented a repertoire of popular and folk songs that are deserving of the highest commendation. They were popularly received.

“Rivra Datiser de fivcis KIV” was the cognomen of the banjo novelty presentation of W. P. Brown. Pomponette, who answers to the street name of Gibson. Salome, fresh from the foreign market, was the sensation of the evening, or for that matter of half a dozen continents. In her Danse du Printemps, she skirted the cabaret tables at will, hampered only by the interference of Ted Covington and Dick. Her step was as light as Ivory Soap, yet majestic as a kitchen range. She awakened the amorous fire of youth in more than one dress suit ere her performance was ended. The removal of a well-fitted wig revealed the visage of Davidson’s own John.

The Grand Finale by the Simpson Symphony Orchestra brought a fitting close to the evening of entertainment. The committee who so ably handled Junior Speaking was composed of Ted Jones, W. Z. Bradford, R. R. Jones, and L. D. Elkins, but it was the entire class that worked night and day in its interest.

“Parallel, Dick? Reading? It’s a wonder no one ever thought of having ‘fire insurance’ for students.”

Geo. Mauze—“Have you read your History?”

Dick Richards—“Didn't have time.”

George—“How in the world do you expect me to pass the course if you don’t do your reading?”

BETTER SERVICE
RALPH'S BARBER SHOP
New Location
KNOX BUILDING

It’s time to do. The institution is remarkable. Examination—with the shaving cream which really does your face good. Then, especially if you like a turn of mind, pleased with the efficiency of Williams’. It softens the beard in so much less time. Shaving cream is supposed to do. Get a tube of Williams’ today. Use it for two months. See then if you ever could go back to any other shaving cream.

Williams’ VII—the softest course in college. It’s seven times a week but the sessions are short—less than five minutes each. And best of all, no man who elects Williams’ ever fails—to get a better shave than he ever got before. The first thing you learn in shaving with Williams’ is the beneficial effect it has on your skin. You can’t fail to be impressed—even after the closest shave—that here, at last, is a shaving cream which really does your face good. Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!

How Electrical Engineering began

It is not enough to experiment and to observe in scientific research. There must also be interpretation. Take the cases of Galvani and Volta. One day in 1786, Galvani touched with his metal instruments the nerves of a frog’s amputated hind legs. The legs twitched in a very life-like way. Even when the frog’s legs were hung from an iron railing by copper hooks, the phenomenon persisted. Galvani knew that he was dealing with electricity but concluded that the frog’s legs had in some way generated the current.

Then came Volta, a contemporary, who said in effect: “Your interpretation is wrong. Two different metals in contact with a moist nerve set up currents of electricity. I will prove it without the aid of frog’s legs.” Volta piled disks of different metals one on top of another and separated the disks with moist pieces of cloth. Thus he generated a steady current. This was the “Voltaic pile”—the first battery, the first generator of electricity.

Both Galvani and Volta were careful experimenters, but Volta’s correct interpretation of effects gave us electrical engineering. Napoleon was the outstanding figure in the days of Galvani and Volta. He too possessed an active interest in science but only as an aid to Napoleon. He little imagined on examining Volta’s crude battery that its effect on later civilization would be fully as profound as that of his own dynamic personality. The effects of the work of Galvani and Volta may be traced through a hundred years of electrical development even to the latest discoveries made in the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company.

—General Electric Company
General Office
Schenectady, N.Y.