ae DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

ALHAMBRA NOW PLAYING
BILLY LEROY’S Broadway Review and University Trio
Direct From The Keith Circuit
MATINEE DAILY: 3:30 NIGHT: 7:30--9

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys.
It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows
221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP
SHOE REPAIRING
Work Guaranteed
Collected every Monday
Prompt Delivery
Prices Reasonable
E. A. FRY
A. G. RAY, Rep.
No. 2 S. B.

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Soph—“As a man thinketh, so is he.”
Fresh—“I ain't.”

For a certain young man named Bailey Groome,
Whose eyes are covered with wool,
We now prescribe the daily broom
To sweep from his office the bull.

Der mister Grume—
Oui r intrested in the
Oui have also notised that you need a pear long-distanced specs as ou couldn't see how good the wildeats wuz wen they went way up yonder in vir-giyia last sadday. furthermore oui notis po you also need a cupple of short-dis-faneed specs as u so offen over lok the collej which is only twenty miles north of charlot. Hereby oui respeck fully submit hour advise.
Yours, TRULY.

Say, bo, your brains are so small that if they were to chisel your head down to fit your brain, you could wear a peanut shell for a derby.

Old Gen; Sheridan didn't do much more damage in Virginia than the Wildcats did last Saturday.

Hardluck chasteneth whom it loveth. It has been chasening me for a long time.

A Grammatical Error?
Dear Sally:
I have been trying to write you for the last two weeks. In fact, these very words I wrote last Sunday evening but have not had a chance to mail them (I found this extract outside of West Dormitory).

A la Pollyanna
We have at least one reason to be glad that school has commenced again—it makes it just that much nearer to next vacation.

The college notified us the other day by means of bulletins that the fall session has officially begun, but we knew it anyhow because Beau Brummel Hurd has a new suit.

We noticed that a new fire escape has been put on Temporary building. This is a surprise to us because we didn't know any girls had classes there.

We Wonder Why?
Yes, we have no Izzies this week. Last Monday was the first one since college opened that the Parlor of “Vest” was not inhabited by two or three different haberdashery hounds.

Three Weeks used to signify the title of a novel but its modern meaning is the length of time that a freshman keeps his resolve to Study.

Soph—I know a good joke.
Fresh—What is it?
Soph—Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday.
Fresh—Weak, weak!

Did you ever stop to think that even if a girl will not let you kiss her she very probably appreciates your wanting to?

If you save money you're a tightwad;
If you spend it you're a loafer;
If you can’t get it you're a bum—
So what in the world is the use?

Take it from us, King Midas didn’t have anything on Henry Ford. Everything that guy touches turns to tin.

Weekly Conundrum
We would like to know how anybody can expect this new honor store to be on the level when it is to be in the basement of Watts?

Full many a man, both young and old,
Has gone to his sarcophagus
By drinking hootch icy cold
Down his esophagus.

Weekly Song Hits
Watt McCain announces as his new composition for this week a pathetic little ditty entitled: “The eagle is a wonderful bird, but it takes the stork to deliver the goods.”

Prof.—Mr. Curtis, your recitation reminds me of Quebec.
Rube—How's that, Doctor?
Prof.—Because it’s built on a bluff.

Mental Duds
Our idea of a trustful father is the one that sends his son to college with a blank signed check.

Whose poke is this?
Matheson—Mine. Don't you see my signature in the front?
Fresh—Yes. That's what aroused my curiosity.

Fresh—Whatcha gonna do tonight?
Phil—Nothing. Whatcha gonna do?
Al—Nothing. Who else is gonna play?

Fresh—Ain't nature great?
Soph—How's that?
Fresh—She gives us all faces, but we can pick our own teeth.

Dick Littlejohn—Alki, did you hear about the new elevator dance?
Alki Jones—No, what about it?
Dick—It’s a cinch. No steps to it.

Fresh—I'm writing to my girl. What's a good postscript to add?
Senior—Please burn this at once.

Hudgins—What are you washing the back of your neck for, Henry?
Henry—I'm going to get a haircut.

Here’s one that Ed West told us. It seems that Ed has unusually good luck in picking up rides to Charlotte. One day not long ago as he was waiting to be picked up a big seven-passenger car drove up with only one occupant.
“Are you headed for Charlotte, man?” asked the driver.fie Ed as he his foot to the running board. “Thank you,” said the man as he started off. “I just wanted to be sure I was on the right road.” (Ed said he didn't want a lift anyhow.)

The modern-day flapper has changed the old saying, “I love every bone in your body” to “I love every bone in your pocket.” Ain’t It the Truth

The difference between life and love is that in life there is one thing after another, but in love there are two things after each other.

Press on! Surmount the rocky steeps, Climb bodily o'er the torrent’s arch; Be thou a hero! Let thy might Tramp on eternal snows its way, And through the ebon walls of night Press on! If once and twice thy feet Slip back and stumble, harder, try; From him who never dreads to meet Danger and death they're sure to fly. To coward ranks the bullet speeds, While on their breasts who never quail, Gleams, guardian of chivalric deeds, Bright courage like a coat of mail. —Park Benjamin.

STUDENT BODY HEARTILY ENDORSED W. & L.’S STAND

At a meeting of the student body Monday morning, it was unanimously decided to send a telegram to Washington and Lee University commending them on the stand which they took, Saturday afternoon, against playing an opposing football team which had on its squad a negro player. One of the time-old traditions of Washington and Lee is that they have never played against a negro athlete, and rather than break this tradition the game which they were scheduled to play against Washington and Jefferson was at first forfeited, and then declared canceled when W. & J. declined the forfeit.

Washington and Jefferson is one of the largest colleges in the middle and their football team, for a number of years, has made a record that has been surpassed by few colleges. In a statement made by the president of Washington and Jefferson, Saturday, he said, “The negro in question is one of the best students attending the institution and for the past three years has proved himself of inestimable value to our football team and due to the fact that this college does not draw any racial lines he will not be withdrawn from the game, no matter what the traditions of Washington and Lee are.”

Rather than withdraw, Washington and Lee, one of the South's largest universities, did not play the game at the risk of a forfeit.

FRESHMEN KNOWLEDGE UNDERGOES ACID TEST

Two hundred and twenty-six Freshmen reported at Shearer Hall Thursday evening for the psychological examination. The men were distributed among three rooms downstairs. Dr. Hood had charge of Dr. McConnell’s classroom; Professor Foreman of Dr. Grey's, and Dr. Howd of Dr. Sentelle’s. The Senior class in Education was placed in charge of the questioning and timekeeping.

The college requires all men entering Davidson for the first time to take this examination. The score of each individual is kept private, that is, the grades are not published. However, the scores of each year are determined by the dean's office. The class of '26 has a higher average than any previous class, that being 148. The highest score of that year was 209, while the lowest was 41. For an average class, the scores are expected to run as follows: One per cent to make 207 or over; 20 per cent to make 169 or over; 50 per cent to make 147 or over; 75 per cent to make 122 or over; and 99 per cent to make 63 or over.

This examination is very important and determines a man’s mentality. The questions are carefully worked out and show as well as possible by the answers what a man’s brain power amounts to. As before stated, these grades are kept in the college with the scholarship records, along with a graph which is posted in the student record.

REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles. WHITE DRUG COMPANY

WILL THE WILDCATS WIN? HAS THE RUHR SETTLEMENT BEEN REACHED?

Read the Charlotte Observer and keep up with the world’s news. Let us give you rates for subscriptions or renewals. ELKINS and McALPIN

WRIGLEY'S

Have a packet in your pocket for ever-ready refreshment. Aids digestion. Allays thirst. Soothes the throat. For Quality, Flavor and the FLAVOR LASTS

BRONCHITIS

Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes so vapors will be inhaled. Vicks VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Victrolas Victor Records Steinway Pianos Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos Player Piano Rolls Parker-Gardner Company CHARLOTTE, N. C. Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.