Win For the Honor of Old Davidson

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Vol. XI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 1, 1923 No. 7

Dr. John W. Ruskin Shows Pictures Of Arctic Regions, India and South Seas

Surgeon and Photographer of Many Exploring Expeditions Tells Experiences in Every Clime, With Aid of Wonderful Still and Motion Pictures

Dr. John W. Ruskin, world-explorer, lectured at the College Gymnasium on Friday night, October 20th, using still and motion pictures to illustrate the strange wild animals and natives in the unusual places of the world. Dr. Ruskin spent 18 years in world exploration, and his pictures bore proof of the many and varied parts of the earth from which he has secured some of the most remarkable pictures of wild animals to be found today. The proceeds of the ticket sale went to the High School here to help purchase a Visual Aid equipment for use in the study of Natural History.

For two and a half years Dr. Ruskin was with a party of explorers in the far north. After the wrecking of the ship in which the party set sail, they were all forced to spend these two and a half years in the Eskimo land of Greenland. Here they learned what it was to live far from the white man’s civilization, to live in snow houses, to wear home-made skin clothes, to eat the foreign food of the Eskimo. They were in a place where ordinary money was worthless; tobacco, beads, and other items could be used for trade purposes. However, the Eskimo proved most eager to meet the white man and to assist him in his work. One of their guides was also formerly a guide for Dr. Cook in his polar voyages.

The wild animals of the north were shown in some wonderful pictures. The musk ox, which lives 10 months of the year without eating a thing, devouring the musk ox flower, which is the only green plant of Greenland, for 60 days of the year and then fasting for the remainder of the year, was a specimen of life which the party went to study. It was found that the polar bear and the seal are inveterate enemies. The two-ton walrus proved the giant of all the animals of the snow and ice region. The Eskimo persists in using his old tribal harpoon and twine for most of his hunting, preferring them to any weapons the white man has invented. In winter, the Eskimo lives in small ice houses, of which close-up views were given, while in summer they go into tents. The winter temperature, of course, (Continued on page 4)

Glee Club Opens Season With Huntersville Trip

Two Long Trips Planned Through Carolinas and Georgia Late in Season of 1923

The Davidson College Glee Club of 1923 made its debut in the high school auditorium at Huntersville on Saturday evening, October 27. The program consisted of vocal and instrumental numbers by the chorus, soloists, quartet, jazz orchestra, and mandolin-guitar club. The fourteen numbers and encores lasted one hour and a half, and the intense interest and attention of the entire audience was held throughout the performance.

Worthy of special mention was the excellent jazz furnished by the D.C. Jazz-hounds who took the house in their usual style. However, they were not alone. The semi-classical and melodious selections by the quartet followed by humorous encores shined. Pigey's grotesquely painted face peered from his customary red raiment, while Martin's newly acquired wisdom split sides with laughter. Solos by Ted Watt, McCain, Okey Allison, and Jones were well received and applauded. The symphony orchestra grazed in an operatic pasture, claiming a spellbound audience for several minutes. (Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Net Men Sweep Meet With Wake Forest, Taking Six Straight Matches

Price, Beall, Staley, and Trotter Represent Davidson in Opening Meet of Year

In a one-sided meet on Thursday, Oct. 25, the Davidson tennis team scored decisively over their Wake Forest rivals, winning by a 6-0 score. The Wildcat team: H. Price, T. F. Staley, Mac Beall, and J. Trotter, playing on their home courts, showed their strength in every department and won twelve out of thirteen sets. The four singles and the two doubles encounters were witnessed by some hundred and fifty D.C. rooters. The bad weather which had set in during the first of the week cleared off in time to get the courts in prime condition.

The players paired off as follows: Harry Price and A. Agelasto, ranking No. 1; T. F. Staley and C. M. Townsend; Mac Beall and Bland; and Jim Trotter and B. F. Slate. Play began when Price and Agelasto took the East court at about three o'clock. This was to be the main match of the afternoon. Agelasto won the toss and elected to serve. His slice service worked well and Price lost the game on several wild drives. In the second game, Price got over some speedy serves but Agelasto handled them with confidence and ran out the game after it went to deuce. His steadiness also prevailed in the third game. Harry then took a grip on himself and with characteristic Wildcat fight staged a comeback. His service steadied and his drives began to find the mark. He was able (Continued on page 4)

Dramatic Club Presents Three One-Act Plays

Plays by Galloway and Elkins and a Musical Fantasy to be Presented

The Dramatic Club will present three one-act plays during the week of Thanksgiving. Following out the policy of the club, all of the program will consist of original plays written by members of the Dramatic organization. The first is a cynical tragi-comedy written by L. D. Elkins, the title of which is “Out O’ Goodness.” The next is a tragedy, entitled “The Cretin,” written by W. E. Galloway. This is a psychological play which shows the results of a scientist's experiments on a half-wit. It tells a gripping story and will require powerful acting. The third is a musical fantasy, entitled “Why, Pierrot.” The book and lyrics were written by Prof. E. J. Erwin. The music is the joint product of J. R. Earnest, Mrs. Frazer Hood, Mrs. W. L. Porter, and Mrs. A. M. Ingold of Morganton. The Glee Club has been practicing some of the songs and has found them tuneful and melodious. Some striking scenic, lighting, and costume effects are being planned for this production. Try-outs for the various parts have already been held. (Continued on page 2)

CAPTAIN E. S. FAISON

’Lias Faison is serving his fourth year on the Wildcats’ right flank. He is an ideal leader and aggressive player.

Magazine Promises Great Improvement

Combination With Cap and Bells Enables Development of Humorous Section

TYPES OF MATERIAL VARIED

Radical Changes in Both Content and Appearance Planned by Present Staff

The first issue of the Davidson College Magazine for this year promises to be the best in the history of the publication, and this being the year of uncommon development seems to be fully ahead. The first number is an indication of what is to follow. The Davidson College Magazine holds a unique and important place in theCampus and literary life of the College. Through its pages come the best in fiction, essays, poetry, and all forms of literary activity of the student body. The Davidsonian covers an entirely different field, as it deals with the happenings on the campus and those things which ordinarily appertain to the Newspaper. The Magazine rounds out the Davidson publications by adding a touch of literature to the strictly news-carrying capacities of the Davidsonian. This year the Magazine promises an even greater success than it has ever enjoyed before. W. H. Gallaway, by his untiring efforts, has made ready for publication one of the most complete and most original issues that have ever been published. Last year the Magazine appeared only twice, but this year there will be four is (Continued on page 3)

PHI BETA KAPPA MEN

Phi Beta Kappa, national scholastic fraternity, has four Seniors to memberships. The men chosen are leaders of the student body along scholastic lines. The following men were elected: W. M. Cox, A. M. Hillhouse, J. Smith, D. B. Walthall.

Purple Hurricane Blows Red and Black Warriors Off Their Feet, Winning 30-0

Furman Scores First Two Touchdowns on Blocked Punts. Carter, Herlong, Waters, and Poteat Circle Davidson Flanks for Long Gains.

Columbia, S. C., Oct. 24. Shepherd and Summers Injured

The Purple Hurricane swept the Wildcats off their feet in the final periods of their annual battle and won 30-0. The game was played under sunny skies, and the fleecy clouds scudding across the blue gave no hint of the Purple storm which was to spend its fury on the snarling Wildcats.

It was a game of upsets, and breaks favored the wearers of the Purple. In only one period, the second, Wildcats made their only bid for victory when they outplayed the Palmetto Baptists. They carried the ball to Furman’s 20-yard line as the half closed.

Furman scored shortly after the game started. Coleman blocked Shepherd's punt and fell on it on the sixteen-yard line. Waters and Poteat made it first down on the 6-yard line, on four off-tackle plays. On the third play, Poteat slid off right tackle for the touchdown. Carter failed to kick goal.

The Wildcats felt the loss of Doc DeVemon and Boges who were kept out because of injuries. On the first play of the same game, Sam Summers, whose ankle was hurt in the V. P. I. game three weeks ago, was disabled when his ankle gave way. Shortly after the Hurricane scored their first count, Gig Shepherd, who had all but beaten Furman singlehandedly the year before, was knocked silly.

For the Hurricane, Captain Cortes, Herlong, Waters, Poteat, and Simpson were the outstanding stars. They circled the ends, tore through tackle, and bucked the line for practically all Furman gains. Captain Faison and Covington were the Wildcat stars. Faison was down on every punt and made some wonderful tackles. Covington gained on tackle plays and made several long runbacks of punts and kickoffs.

After a change of punts, the first chukker had closed with the ball on the Wildcats' 20-yard line. The Wildcats punted but an outside penalty gave them first down on the 25-yard line. Two plays lost 5 yards. Then Pike dropped out of the line and kicked the ball over McCurry’s head 70 yards.

(Continued on page 6)

Colored Musicians Will Perform Here

Well-Known Biddle Quintet and Orchestra Engaged for Weekend Concert

The Johnston C. Smith University Quintet and Orchestra is to appear before a Davidson audience this season on Friday, Nov. 2, at 7:30 P.M. All old men will recollect with pleasure the performance presented by these colored artists last year in Shearer Hall. They are reported to have secured several voices this season which are even better than those of last year.

The Quintet is recognized to be one of the finest organizations of male voices in the country. They specialize in the old negro melodies and spirituals while at the same time presenting a well-rounded program with the aid of the Orchestra. Lately, the Quintet has been making phonograph records of their special numbers. Davidson is very fortunate to be able to arrange for their performance as the Quintet is very much in demand at various conventions throughout the country. They are soon to make a trip west to furnish the special music for a church convention. The entire personnel of the Quintet and Orchestra are students of Johnston C. Smith University (Biddle) of Charlotte.

(Continued on page 3)

Captain Weems Gives Graphic Picture of West Point Religious Influences

Scabbard and Blade Bids R. O. T. C. Officer Describes One Phase of Cadet Life at the U. S. Military Academy

Religious influences at West Point was the subject of an interesting talk made by Captain Weems, of the R.O.T.C. Department, to the Y. M. C. A. on last Sunday evening. The speaker divided his subject into three phases: Chapel (or church) services, the Cadet Y. M. C. A. and Sunday Schools, and Miss Warner's Bible Class.

“Upon entering the Academy,” said Capt. Weems, “one seems neither to feel nor see any religious influence whatever. He usually enters on Monday or Tuesday and by Sunday his mind is so confused by the sudden and abrupt change in life that he has almost forgotten that there is a kind providence to guide his footsteps. Gradually he becomes acclimated and begins to absorb the spirit which forever seems to hover over the corps. This spirit is fully described by the words DUTY, HONOR, COUNTRY. This spirit of the corps is in itself a religion, and it fits well with whatever else he has which he calls religion. Truth, in all relations, is the most fundamental element in West Point life.

“There are at West Point two chapels, the Catholic chapel, and the majestic Cadet Chapel overlooking the valley at the Hudson and sending over the valley chimes of sacred and solemn music. On Sunday morning all cadets attend services at one of these chapels.”

(Continued on page 2)

Scabbard and Blade Bids R. O. T. C. Officer With Good Prospects for Successful Year

Last Friday night, Captain George H. Weems was initiated as an associate member into the National Society of Scabbard and Blade, a National Military Fraternity of Cadet Officers. Captain Weems was formally initiated into the society as the result of the invitation extended to him a few weeks ago, he being the first new member for this year. Since his arrival at Davidson, Captain Weems has indeed shown his sterling character, which together with his broad field of activities, made him a leader while at West Point. Since his successful career there, his services have been devoted entirely to his country and fellowmen. The Society is very fortunate in having Captain Weems in its ranks.

Scabbard and Blade has been at Davidson less than a year, the Cadet Officers of the military department last year having received a charter about the end of the term. It endeavors to unite the military departments of the American Colleges and Universities into closer relationship, to develop and preserve the qualities of gentlemen along with those of good and efficient officers, and as a whole to have a decided influence for the better.

(Continued on page 3)