4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

° THE DAVIDSONIAN

Open Forum

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS........ Editor-in-Chief

REGINALD L. PRICE....... Business Manager

Editorial Staff

Managing Editor W. Z. BRADFORD

Assistant Managing Editor A. C. WILDMAN

Assistant Managing Editor W. M. COX

Athletic Editor LOWRY AXLEY

Peanut Parcher Editor HESTON

Associate Editor O. J. ALLISON

Associate Editor M. B. SMITH

Alumni Editor J. R. BRIGGS

Business Staff

Advertising J. R. BRIGGS

Subscription K. McALPINE

Advertising R. W. DEAL

Bookkeeper W. H. CROMWELL

Subscription P. J. STORY

Service Department J. M. GARRISON

Assistant Service Department J. A. THOMPSON

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

Assistant Manager WATT McCAIN

REPORTERS’ CLUB

Manager WALTHALL, D. B., Pres.

GIBBS, L. B.

PITTS, B. Y.

Vice-Pres. WHARTON, D. B.

GREEN, J. L.

REGAN, E. K.

Sec’y-Treas. PATTON, J. H.

HURD, A. M.

ROGERS, G. D.

ALLISON, O. J.

MARSHALL, C. K.

SELSER, J. M.

APPLEBY, J. M.

MILHOU, F.

SHAW, H. L.

BEALL, McP. S.

MILTON, W. E.

STORY, P. J.

BOWIE, A. Y.

MOFFETT, A. N.

WHITE, H. M.

EARNEST, J. R.

MONK, C.

WILLIAMS, J. M.

O'CONNOR, E. P.

EDITORIAL

ANCHORITE PERIODS

To every man who travels the highway of service and usefulness, there must come periods of hermitage; periods of voluntary
seclusion, when the world is far away as distant planets, when “no one lives but thought and me.” The success
of world movements, it is true, is dependent upon intense activity. The spirit of restlessness and discontent is an essential
factor in progress. It is a propelling force—a requisite for human accomplishment. And yet, misdirected activity may send individuals, even
nations, to ruin. Out of silent meditation grows the discontent and energetic spirit which sets movements of merit agoing. In
cloistered retreats where the hum of machinery is never heard, and where the commercialistic whirr of life is silenced by
walls of contemplation, great ideas are conceived. Away from the crowds, away from the thrones of business and pleasure, away
from the world, in a lonely kingdom of pensive reflection, ideas and ideals are ushered into being.

Have you ever been alone with yourself? Have you formed an intimacy with your own thoughts? The power of society
and association on human thought is acknowledged indispensable, yet “solitude sometimes is best society.”

Sit alone and think! Think of the problems which enter your life, and weigh them in your leisure mind. Turn
them over and over again. Debate them with yourself, and be convinced that you are right or wrong. Assume the
role of judge, and when the scales have measured thought with thought, choose wisely.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE—DEALER IN MEN

A retrospective study of the accomplishments of the little Presbyterian College of North Carolina is a review of brilliant attainments
through a long period of years. It is a study of great and noble lives that have stood out as
beacons in the national life of America. It is a study of men—for this is the material with which Davidson
deals; this is the finished product sent into the world to represent Davidson ideals.

Eighty-six years ago Davidson College was founded. It was an embodiment of the love-of-God, love-of-country spirit that filled the breasts
of the Scotch-Irish settlers of Northern Carolina. The establishment of an institution of learning, wherein could be trained for God
and country the young manhood of the state, followed in the wake of the struggles for religious and political freedom.
The same men who gave birth to the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, and who raised the standards of the Church
of Christ above their homes and villages, were the fathers of the college whose motto expressed the spirit that dwelled
within their Scotch and Irish breasts. Alenda Lux Ubi Orta Libertas (Let learning be cherished where liberty has arisen) expressed
the spirit of their religion, their patriotism and their appreciation of learning.

Davidson has grown from a college of sixty-six students to one of the large “small colleges” with an enrollment of
577. Eighty-six years have been spent in human investment. The lives and characters of men are being molded and fashioned
for one great mission—service. Davidson is dealing in men!

The popular unrest and discontent of the times, necessary as it may be, demands the best thought that is in
man. The headlong rush of the modern being, the hurry and bustle of life, challenges men who can give time
to meditation and serious study of the problems of the age.

The division of the Freshman class into groups may be regarded as one of the most logical steps taken by
the Court of Control. The new men coming to Davidson are acquainted with the traditions and the aims of college,
and are taught a love for their Alma Mater. Leading men of the student body are making appeals each week
to the various groups on subjects of What is Expected of a Davidson Man; Scholarship; Athletics and Body Development; and
Religious Activity.

THROW AWAY YOUR HAMMER!

Too much destructive and not enough constructive criticism; too much breaking down of a co-operative spirit, and not enough boosting.
That constitutes what has been going on on the campus for some time this year in regard to cheering and
cheer-leading. This has been a topic for many “bull session” discussions, and if there is one in the crowd who
is antagonistic he can disastrously use his influence, since people, as a whole, are easily led.

Does any Senior here remember having pep meetings for the Freshmen for two solid weeks after school started and then
have them for two or three nights in succession before every game? The answer to this is negative. There have
not been cheer leaders here for some time who have worked so consistently, so earnestly and so zealously with the
new men to instill into them that Wildcat fighting spirit.

Again, for many years past the pep meetings that we have held on each night before each game played in
Charlotte this year have been an absent factor in the cheer-leading routine. This is a new practice that has been
instituted and is a decided means to a great end. Further, does anyone remember the time when as many students
got up at 6 o'clock in the morning to see a Davidson team off as when our team left for
V. P. I.? Again the answer is echoed, “No.”

And yet there is a great deal of criticism going the rounds on the campus. Let every individual examine himself
first and see whether he is doing his best in cheering. Let him look around and see what the others
are doing, and then if everybody is not doing his best, then start the criticism of your cheer leaders.

We (this is used collectively since others have observed)

DOPE BOX GIVES USUAL UNCERTAIN INDICATIONS

Saturday, as usual, furnished several upsets as to the relative strength in Davidson’s dwindling roll of opponents. Clemson received a
sound and unexpected walloping; Carolina romped on South Carolina and Trinity proved much stronger than the prophets had conceded her
to be.

Clemson, Davidson’s next enemy, is not playing up to her early season standard. V. P. I. found no trouble in
licking her Saturday. Her heavy line seems to have cracked under the strain of several successive, terrific contests. By the
route of comparative scores with Wildcats she suffers. Here they are: Davidson 3, P. C. 0; P. C. 7, S.
C. 3; S. C. 6, Clemson 7, and better still: Davidson 0, V. P. I. 7; V. P. I. 25,
Clemson 6. But Clemson fights her best at home and regardless of her defeats she still has one of the
fastest backfields in the South. These advantages fully take care of the narrow margin which separates them from the Wildcats
in the score column.

Carolina is doped to win. She frocked South Carolina to the merry tune of 13-9 with two of her stellar
players onthis besides the writer) have seen some Davidson men sit in the stands and whenever Davidson made a good
gain they would slightly smile, but no sound of rejoicing emanated from their lips. Even when Davidson made the touchdown
against State last Saturday a few of these gave a little broader smile than usual, while others among them were
yelling and leaping and banging upon each other. You can’t blame this on the cheer-leaders. And for this reason you—the
one who is reading this—look back and see if you did your best, and if you haven't made any observations
before, make some at the next game. Who could want a more general evidence of pep than that exhibited in
the game last Saturday? Even in the darkest moments that fighting spirit still lived. After State had crossed our goal
line, "O Davidson" was played, and when the yells followed this, it undoubtedly sent a thrill to the heart of
each player to know that we, the students, appreciated his efforts and were backing him to the last. The cheer-leaders
have worked hard, they have put far more pep into the student body than existed last year, and they deserve
your co-operation and your backing instead of your knocking. How about it? —True Blue.

RAIN INTERFERES IN THE WORK OF SUNDAY SCHOOLS

Because of bad weather only a few men were able to go out to the “Y” Sunday Schools last Sunday
afternoon. However, there were five men who went to Shearer and several who went to the Mill Chapel. Notwithstanding the
rain and mud the attendance at Shearer was 20. Those who have been going to Hobson Chapel, Cornelius, and the
convict camp were unable to go on account of the steady downpour of rain. Several new mission Sunday Schools will
be organized as soon as they can be provided for. It may be some time yet before they can be
started, as there is so much to be done in connection with the ones which the “Y” already has in
charge.

Nor does this tell half the tale. South Carolina did not make a single first down, while Carolina made 20.
And in one week the whole team will be in tip-top shape for the V. P. I. fray which promises
to be one of the closest and hardest struggles of the year. In all probability, the Flying Cadets will put
a number of the Tar Heels on the injured list, whether she wins or not. Trinity seems to have revived.
She “changed horses in the middle of the stream,” and seems to have gained thereby. Saturday she dropped Steiner, mentor
for three years, and elected assistant Burbage, a former Auburn player, as temporary leader. It is reported that Alexander, formerly
with Washington and Jefferson, will succeed Steiner. Anyway, Elon was smothered by the Blue Devils, 34-0, while Davidson only turned
the Christians back, 19-0. Probably a rejuvenation, only second to that of Wake Forest with the advent of Garrity, has
come to the Durham Devils. Davidson will watch with intense interest the combat of the Blue Devils and the Baptists
next Saturday. Thus ends the tale; Trinity waxing stronger; Carolina at her best; Clemson an unknown quantity, but fighting at
home. Dope looks bad; but it is history and no myth, that the Davidson spirit has squashed dope many times
in the past. With “Monk” Younger at the helm and the Davidson spirit rising, no team will feel safe until
the Wildcats are out of the way.

WRESTLERS PRACTICE FOR ONCOMING SEASON

Before many days have passed, the pigskin will be thrown to the shelf, and from the nooks and corners of
the campus, the mighty Herculeans will come forth, arrayed in their black tights and ready to start a season of
wrestling. The wrestling team of Davidson College will begin practice around November 1st, with prospects bright for the best season
in the history of the college. Captain Weems, an officer of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit, who was
a football man, and captain of the army wrestling team, has agreed to give part of each afternoon to the
coaching of the sport. The schedule for the wrestling is now completed except for two dates. As soon as these
two dates are gotten and contracts signed the full schedule will be published. It is planned to have two matches
on the hill and four away from Davidson. Although the schedule is partially uncertain, a match with Trinity at Davidson
is assured, and plans for a trip through North Carolina and Virginia are well under way. The Wildcat wrestlers will
meet all of last year’s opponents, and will give them more for their money than they did in 1922. As
soon as arrangements can be made to secure a new mat, the squad will be called. There are three letter
men from last year’s team back, Captain Cromartie, Lindamood, and Selsor, and two men from the last year squad, White
and Patterson. It is understood that Coach Younger will have all of his football linesmen out for wrestling, as a
means of development for next year’s North Carolina champions. On account of the large number of new men out in
each class, the old men have their positions in no way cinched. With five old men back, and numbers of
new men out, this should be a golden season in wrestling for the Wildcat grapplers.

Exchanges

The following is a list of the college and university exchanges which have been received by the Davidsonian: The Flat
Hat, William and Mary College; Arizona Wildcat, University of Arizona; Centre College Cento, Centre College; The Bluestocking, Presbyterian College of
South Carolina; The Purple and White, Millsaps College; The Hornet, Furman University; The Kangaroo, Austin College; The Watchtower, Wesleyan College;
The Lenorian, Lenoir College; The New Student, National Student Forum; The Tulane Hullabaloo, Tulane University; Columbia Spectator, Columbia University; The
Petrel, Oglethorpe University; The Technique, Georgia Tech; The Trinity Chronicle, Trinity College; The Vanderbilt Hustler, Vanderbilt University; The Gamecock, University
of South Carolina; The Virginia Tech, Virginia Polytechnic Institute; The Hampden-Sydney Tiger, Hampden-Sydney College; The Anchor, Hope College; The Baylor
Lariat, Baylor University; The Tar Heel, University of North Carolina; The Agonistic, Agnes Scott College; The Crimson-White, University of Alabama;
The Technician, North Carolina State College; The Bethel Collegian, Bethel College; The Crimson Rambler, Transylvania College; Old Gold and Black,
Wake Forest College; King College News, King College; The Mississippian, University of Mississippi; The Emory Wheel, Emory University; The Carolinian,
North Carolina College for Women; The Ring-tum Phi, Washington and Lee University; The Yellow Jacket Weekly, Randolph-Macon College; Wheaton College
Record, Wheaton College; Maroon and Gold, Elon College; The Orange and Blue, Carson-Newman College; The Campus, Allegheny College; The Tiger,
Clemson College; The Prospector, College of Mines and Metallurgy; The Brackety-Ack, Roanoke College; The Plainsman, Auburn; Martha’s Mirror, Martha Washington
College; The Guilfordian, Guilford College; The Florida ’Gator, University of Florida; Red and Black, University of Georgia; The Twig, Meredith
College; Davenport Weekly Record, Davenport College; The Panther, Arkansas College; The Mercer Cluster, Mercer College; The Student Life, Pomona College;
The Reflector, Mississippi A. and M. College; The Belhaven Miss, Belhaven College; Queens Blues, Queens College; The Torch, Valparaiso University;
Richmond Collegian, University of Richmond; Centenary Conglomerate, Centenary College; The Sou’wester, Southwestern Presbyterian University.

The list of exchanges which have been received from prep and high schools is as follows: The Scout, Danville Military
Institute; Gold and Black, Concord High School; The Rambler, Charlotte High; The “C. Q.,” Fishburne Military School; High Life, Greensboro
High School; The Inkling, Burroughs High School; The Berry News, Berry School; The Darlingtonian, Darlington School; The Oracle, Woodberry Forest
School; The Hi-Rocket, Durham High School; The Round Hillian, Round Hill Academy.

Nominations are now in order for Junior and Senior debaters. The Annual Junior-Senior debate is due to open November 14th,
when the Pandeinics and Metrophilians stage their preliminaries. November 16th the Eumeneans and Philanthropics pick their respective teams. November 21,
the Pandeinics and Metrophilians clash in the semi-finals. Two days later the Eumeneans and Philanthropics battle for supremacy. December 7th
is the date of the real excitement, for winners of both divisions will be prepared to launch offensives for the
cup. Who will win and why? All Juniors and Seniors are needed to defend their class and society honors. Come
on—Let’s go!

The question for debate is one of current, national interest, Resolved: That Congress, at its coming session, should enact legislation
to relieve the wheat growers of the United States, by guaranteeing to them a price sufficient to net at least
10 percent profit over the cost of wheat production, as estimated by Government statistics. Last year the Pandeinics won the
cup. They were represented by Williamson, Davis, and Walthall. The debate this year promises to be fast and furious, with
plenty of argument and pep. The fight is on Marquis of Queensbury rules, and may the best man win.
