THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1923

ALHAMBRA THIS WEEK
WALT KELLAM Presents “Rake ’Em Up” Wilkerson with Girls, Music and Fun
MATINEE DAILY: NIGHT 7:30--9

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

COMPLETE LINE SILK-WOOL HOSIERY
A. C. McINTYRE

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
5% 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Kindly Note!
Of course we are not going to run this department by our lonesome. Any contributions, gifts of any description, or challenges for duels will be welcome. If, by some unfortunate mishap, we should chance to look over your head as we pass you on the campus, simply trip us up as we rush by and insert your contribution in one of our prostrate pockets.

It is with a fluttering heart that we hasten to notify the well-dressed Davidsonian that Princeton is not wearing the blue coat with the gray trouser this year but the gray coat with the blue trouser.

No, Hortense, Moses in the Rushes is not a fraternity epic.

Jones (sarcastically)—Chip, your mouth is open.
Chipman—I know it. I opened it.

Speedy Carr—I've made up my mind that I'm going to marry a woman that's easily pleased.
Maxwell—That’s the only kind you'll ever get.

Our idea of a lazy man is one that gets up at five o'clock in the morning so he will have more time to loaf.

Weekly Song Hit
Watt McCain, composer of many pathetic little ditties, announces as his latest masterpiece the rollicking lullaby entitled: “Send your girl to the pen and then you'll make her write.”

Fresh—Why do they always call McComb Van Heusen?
Soph—Because he always tries to look as hard as he can without hurting anybody.

Our idea of the height of wealth is the bootlegger who votes for prohibition.

And once more—our idea of an altruistic man is the bootlegger who prints antidotes on the bottles containing his valuable fluid.

Hurd—You're crazy!
Price—Crazy? Why, you're so dumb you couldn't pass the entrance exam at an insane asylum.

A Queer Outlook
Fresh—What are you thinking about, Rube?
Curtis—How did you know that I was thinking?
Fresh—I saw an unusual expression on your face.

The Bare Truth
The attendance at football practice looks like the gallery at a chess tournament and sounds like the same. Back the team, and in all probability bring them back with another victory for the Wildcats!

Society News
The old-fashioned debutante has been forgotten in this day of winsome night-butantes.

YARD LINES (Continued from page 2)
For the last six years the Wildcats and the Purple Hurricane have battled at Greenville, and for the last four Turkey Day has been the occasion. The change to Columbia marks a new era in D. C.-Furman relations, and it is up to the Wildcats to...get a mid-season, a flying start. When Coach McConnell, of the Freshman basketball team made his appearance in uniform several Freshmen wanted to know what he was going to try to play. Notice, Spec, the Freshman said “try.” Both Davidson and Furman play a game on the Saturday before the game in Furman will have Citadel, while the Baptists in Columbia Wednesday. Its hands full with Presbyterians batter Charlotte. A view of the Furman-Davidson scores shows four victories for each, but three of the Furman victories have come in the last three years. It is time to stop that thing, Wildcats.

1902—Davidson 0, Furman 6.
1915—Davidson 58, Furman 13.
1916—Davidson 46, Furman 14.
1917—Davidson 28, Furman 7.
1919—Davidson 41, Furman 14.
1920—Davidson 0, Furman 7.
1921—Davidson 0, Furman 28.
1922—Davidson 10, Furman 13.

Important Southern games Saturday show:
At Greenville—Citadel vs. Furman.
At Washington—V. P. I. vs. Maryland.
At Rocky Mount—Trinity vs. William and Mary.
At Elon—Hampden-Sidney vs. Elon.
At Charlotte—Wake Forest vs. Davidson.
At Due West—Erskine vs. P. C.

MR. TOM SKEBILL LECTURES ON THE NEW RENAISSANCE
Mr. Tom Skebill, an Australian soldier-poet-lecturer, is scheduled to appear in Davidson for a lecture on November 1st. His subject will be, “The Renaissance in Europe.” This will be interesting to those who discuss foreign affairs. Mr. Skebill served his country as a soldier throughout the World War, from which he emerged in total blindness. He remained in this condition for two years and then recovered his sight through the skill of an American specialist at Washington. During his two years of blindness, he became famous as a lecturer. Since the war, he has made several trips to Europe, familiarizing himself with the conditions there with a view of lecturing to the people of America on European affairs. He made a special study of Russia and Bolshevism. With his vast store of information, he will be an interesting speaker.

PROFESSOR FLEAGLE SPEAKS TO COLLEGE BOYS’ CLASS
The college class at Sunday School Sunday afternoon had an attendance of sixteen members. Professor F. K. Fleagle was the instructor. He gave a fine talk about the nation that should stand out as the Christian nation of the world and pointed out why the United States should be such a nation. He stated that of the great number of nations in the olden times, only four had left anything that influences us today. They were the Egyptians, who gave us our knowledge of mathematics and architecture; the Greeks, who gave us our ideas of art and beauty; the Romans, who gave us our knowledge of law and government; and the Jews, who gave us our religion. Of these, the Jews was the most important gift, as all others depend on religion. Professor Fleagle stated that we are as much in need of religion today as the people were in the days of Christ. He said that there is not any more religion in the world today than there was in the days of the lesson. Several years ago, letters were addressed to one hundred Americans, all of different professions and trades. These hundred men represented the average American. The question asked them was: What is the Most Outstanding Characteristic of the American People? Out of the hundred, 46 said that service to their fellow man was the outstanding trait. 27 said that material success was the outstanding trait. The third largest answer was that search for truth and justice was the outstanding characteristic. The questionnaires were sent out to get an idea as to how well the American nation is fitted to be the leader as a religious nation. No other nation can show that they possess the traits that men stated the American people have.

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB
(Continued from page 1)
Miss Grace Kohn, soprano, and Miss Christine Smith, while not so well-known among the students, have made an enviable reputation in Charlotte. Mrs. Coral Baker, who is directing the club, is widely recognized as one of the best chorus directors in the South. She possesses a thorough knowledge of music and its interpretation. This will undoubtedly be the finest musical program Davidson students will have the opportunity to hear on the hill this year. The program will begin promptly at 7:30.

KEYS FOR TEACHERS AND STUDENTS
Translations. Question and answer books. Outlines. Shortcuts. Mental stimulants. All listed in the free Handy Directory. A card will bring it to you. Address the Handy Book Corporation, Mail Dept., Harrisburg, Pa.

A universal custom that benefits everybody. Aids digestion, cleanses the teeth, soothes the throat.
WRIGLEY'S
a good thing to remember
Sealed in its Purity Package

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

REGISTERED PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Victrolas, Victor Records, Steinway Pianos, Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos, Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.