THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 29, 1923

Fight 'Em, Team!
Eat 'Em Up, Cats!

VANCE, Guard
Davidson
Harry's work was outstanding in the Clemson game. He made a majority of the Davidson tackles, throwing the Tiger backs for losses time after time.

DAVIS, End
Davidson
Nappy is holding down the left wing for the third successive year. He has not gotten away for any sensational gains on passes, and is due to star in the Trinity scrap.

Shoes Repaired While You Wait
Best Repair Shop In City

Metropolitan Shoe Repairing Shop
19 S. Tryon Phone 1616

AFTER FOOTBALL, BASKETBALL

COX, Tackle
N. C. State
Cox, Logan’s running mate at the tackle position, played a great game against the Cats. Davidson was unable to pierce his side of the line with much success.

COACH YOUNGER SELECTS HONOR ROLL
(Continued from page 1)
he played at center and made a large percentage of the tackles.

Moran of Wake Forest is the choice for the other tackle. Before coming to Wake Forest he played at Georgetown University. He tips the beam at 185 pounds, has an ideal build for a tackle, and has been one of the most powerful factors in the Wake Forest line which allows its speedy backfield to get away with very little opposition from the enemy. Matthews of Carolina is another tackle whose work this year has shown up well.

Poindexter of Carolina has the call at guard. He is an experienced player, well-versed in all the tricks of the grid game and was picked by most authorities on last year’s mythical selections. He stands out this year above all the guards in the state.

Captain Simpson of Trinity is shifted from center to fill the other guard position. Playing his fourth year on the Trinity team, he is the best linesman in the Blue Devil camp. Of about the same weight as Poindexter, a fast charger, and one who knows how to use his hands to advantage, he would make an ideal running mate for the Carolina man.

Captain Bostian of N.C. State is the pivot man on Coach Monk's selection. Although considerably lighter than either Simpson of Trinity, Robinson of Carolina, or Emerson of Wake Forest, Bostian’s work has stood out this season. He is an accurate passer, and a wonder at backing up the line.

Monk McDonald, the Carolina wizard, stands head and shoulders above any other quarter in the state. As a field general, he is unexcelled, and he is a triple threat man to be feared. He does Carolina's punting and passing and is a broken field runner of note. In addition to his other merits, he is a drop-kicker who seldom misses, and the extra point after touchdown is as good as chalked up when the score is made.

The best running halfback in the state is also a Carolina player. Rabbit Bonner, by his unequalled broken field running, wins a halfback position. Against Davidson, Rabbit gained over half the yardage Carolina made scrimmage from, and his defensive work was of the highest order. Weighing only 145 pounds, he is nevertheless one of the hardest men in the state to stop and a sure ground gainer against any team.

Rackley, the speedy Wake Forest quarterback, is accorded the other halfback position. Like Bonner, he is a featherweight, but what he lacks in weight he makes up for in speed. Swift as a flash, he picks his holes well and loses no time in slipping through. This pair of backs would cause trouble in every game and they are two of the most elusive runners in the state.

At fullback, Coach Younger picks Al Johnston of N.C. State. This back was the chief ground gainer in the Davidson-State game. He plowed through the lines like a steamroller and then skidded on until two or three men piled on top of him.

BLACK, Halfback
Davidson
Jack Black's brother is well on the road to the position which Jack held on the Wildcat teams. He is the line-plunger par excellence of the Red and Black.

BAKER, End
Davidson
Tom is the third Wildcat end. With Nappy and ’Lias on the flanks, he had a hard time breaking in, but has shown up well. His red-headed pep is his biggest asset.

Five Stories of Solid Comfort
200 Rooms
175 With Private Bath

Mecklenburg Hotel
OPPOSITE SOUTHERN STATION
“Where Davidson Boys Are At Home”
H. D. BRABBLE, Mgr.

NEW YORK CAFE
THE DECENT PLACE TO EAT
THANKSGIVING DINNER 12 TO 8
DAVIDSON MEN ALWAYS WELCOME