THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1923

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT: HALL OF FAME

EVERETT LITTLE BOOE, ’12.
** Football
** Baseball
** Track

Everett Little Booe of Davidson, N. C., is one of the most prominent of the many Wildcats who claim the college town as their home town. His Freshman year he failed to make a letter on the gridiron but started his athletic career by playing third base on the baseball team and making a track monogram. The following year Tiny played fullback and in 1910 proved a prominent factor in the Wildcats’ first victory over Carolina. He was elected captain of the 1911 team and played at left halfback. He won All-South Atlantic honors. Slip was an adept at broken-field running and his work as a punter was both dependable and brilliant. In writing of him a Southern coach said: “There is only one Booe, a slippery bundle of nervous energy, dodging, sidestepping, elusive, and sensational all the time,—that is Booe. Without a peer as a he is a brilliant little jewel that would shine in any backfield.”

THE Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”
BASEBALL - SHOES GLOVES MITTS BATS
We sell the Spalding Harry C. Lee Wright & Ditson RACKETS
Also the Dayton Steel Racket
We Restring Rackets
Our Davidson Agency is THE COMMISSARY

On the diamond, Slip was a wonder, catching one year and playing the hot corner for three seasons. After finishing at Davidson, he played for the Pittsburgh Pirates, making good at the keystone sack. When the Great War broke out Booe went to the Officers Training Camp at Fort Oglethorpe and received his 2nd Lieutenant’s commission. In the spring of ’18 he went over to France and was at the front during the second battle of the Marne and the great Argonne drive. He was sent back to America as an instructor and was made a 1st Lieutenant just before his discharge early in 1919. Slip is now in business in San Antonio, Texas, making good in the world, as he made good on the gridiron and battlefield.

CAROLINA DOPE

The coming of Spring brings with it the advent of baseball, and on all the athletic fields throughout the state teams are warming up for the schedules that begin at the end of the month. Wake Forest and Trinity look about as good as the next one for champion teams on the diamond this year. Both had good clubs last year and many of the same men are back. Trinity’s weak spot is first base and the filling of that position is causing Coach Steiner not a little trouble. Wake Forest has a strong man in Clarke, a former Wake Forest star, who has migrated to the Baptist squad. He is a good man in the field and a regular Babe Ruth at the bat.

Carolina, like Davidson, has a number of vacancies to fill. Bryson is the only letter man back in the box. This is the third year for the big boy, and last summer he won 20 out of 24 games, pitching for Maxton. With the aid of Coxe, a former Yale twirler, and some promising new material, the Tar Heels ought to be as strong as usual in the pitching line. Monk McDonald, a star in every sport, will hold down short, but McLean, veteran second sacker, has so many tabs that it is doubtful if he will play. Sweetman is the only veteran in the field. Carolina is hitting out on a new angle this year and have a Southern trip planned to include Auburn, Alabama, Georgia, Georgia Tech, and Mercer. It will be a severe test for the champion Tar Heels.

N. C. State has all but four men back from a squad that last season won thirteen and lost nine games. Curtis and Allen will have to bear the brunt of the pitching. The only other position that is causing the coaches any trouble is second base. State has a nineteen-game schedule this spring. Over at Elon a general shake-up is taking place. Perry, who has been in the box for several seasons, will do the receiving this time; while Barker and Fogleman will be the most dependable hurlers. “The pitchers look good,” says Coach Carboy, “In fact, they ought to be the strongest in the last five years.” Elon will have about half new men on the diamond.

“Ask a Girl for Speaking”

Baseball, track, tennis, golf; plenty to keep the Red and Black athletes busy for the next two months.

The last time Davidson had a championship diamond team the flappers were wearing red flannels. Now that long dresses are again in vogue maybe both will come back.

Gee, but it’s good to see Pat Crawford on the old initial sack again. The smiling Irishman rolls around his post at first like a well-oiled machine.

On Your Way Through A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now wearing, just notice this: If they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the instep, and the toes—they will not look old for a long time. If they do not fit well there, they will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix Shoes next time. See how well they fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.Oiled lawn mower cutting off base Cx =a hits. The big boy sure snags, ‘em.

DAVIDSON GRAPPLERS
Continued from Page 1

Give Coach Wooly a good man the mats with Woodward holding the advantage and never was Selser able to break Woodward’s hold. Woodward won on time, two minutes fifty-three seconds. Score V. M. I. 3, Davidson 0.

Famous Comebacks.
V. M. I. entered Chapin against Cromartie, Davidson’s captain-manager, in the next match—125-pound class. Cromartie pinned Chapin’s shoulders after five minutes and eighteen seconds of fast wrestling with an arm lock and body hold. Score V. M. I. 3, Davidson 5.

The next match was the surprise of the evening for Davidson’s team. Lowe, of V. M. I., worked into a double leg and arm lock at the start and held Cochran, of Davidson, for time. After about five minutes Lowe broke his advantage hold and began working on Cochran for a fall, pinning him near the last of the match. Score V. M. I. 8, Davidson 5.

In the 149-pound class Baird, of V. M. I., entered against Kemzig, of Davidson. The match was fought to a draw. In the initial nine-minute period each man got time on the other but neither gained a decided advantage. Kemzig held Baird for 8 seconds and Baird held Kemzig for 9 seconds in the extra periods and both men were given two points on a draw. Score V. M. I. 10, Davidson 7.

Ferguson, of V. M. I., in the 158-pound class, won the next match from Patterson, of Davidson, on a time decision. Ferguson held considerable time advantage at the close of the match but not without extending himself.

The next match, 175-pound class, was the hardest bout of the evening. Lindamood, taking White’s place for Davidson, wrestled Bickford, of V. M. I., to a draw in the initial period and won on time decision in the extra period. Bickford gave some unusual demonstrations of releasing himself from holds, but Lindamood was too much for the hard fighter he was. Score V. M. I. 13, Davidson 10.

After a five minutes’ rest, Lindamood re-entered for Davidson against Barbour, V. M. I.’s 235-pound heavyweight sensation, in the unlimited class. Lindamood swapped even with Barbour on time in the initial period, and gave him entertainment for most of the first extra period. Then on account of Barbour’s advantage in wind Lindamood lost on a fall. Final score V. M. I. 18, Davidson 10.

This was Davidson’s final match of the season, which closes without a victory but with two creditable showings as their record. Reviewing the results of the season: Davidson suffered a decisive defeat at Trinity, a close call at Carolina, and a near victory at V. M. I. This is not such a bad record against teams which are well coached by full-time men and well equipped. Those interested in wrestling see it as a sport growing in popularity and predict that Davidson will stay in the swim and give a worthy account of herself in the coming seasons. The 1923-24 captain-manager will be elected within the near future, and work on a bigger and better year will begin at that time. It is hoped that several matches can be arranged on the hill next season. The outcome of the Athletic Association’s handling of the question of awarding letters to the wrestling team will be announced at a later date.

Ask a Girl for Speaking

The latest addition to the wildcat category of fires was a poor exhibition for excitement, and a sad disappointment for the manze—white fire extinguishers.

It happened soon after the supper hour and should have been a whopper but it seems that fate was kind to the old forensic nursery of ex-president Woodrow Wilson, and Eu Hall still stands. When the blaze was discovered Tuesday night, 13th, it seemed as though a real one was in store. The whole upper hall was clothed in flames, but the removing of a rug removed the flames and all hopes of further excitement.

CHOICE TERRITORY

Rave on O! Zoroaster!

ATHLETES

Make good as a salesman because—
They have natural training.
They know how to think and act quickly.
They understand what it is to “fight through.”