**THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923**

DAVIDSON Well Known Speaker South Carolina Takes

FIVE YEARS AGO Secured for Addresses Literary Societies

Five years ago Davidson was playing her traditional enemy and hardest foe. She met Carolina in Winston and came off with the big end of a 14-7 score. The Wildcats scrapped and clawed their way to a clean-cut victory only by sheer grit and spirit. The team fought for every inch of the ground and at one time the snarling Wildcat team held Carolina for three downs one foot from the goal line. The feature of the game was a pass and run by Johnson for 80 yards, which scored the first touchdown. Carolina threatened several times but went over only once on line plays. The Davidson team showed up splendidly and covered itself with glory by the wonderful scrap that was put up.

In one hour 350 Davidson students subscribed $7,179.50 for the United War Work Campaign which is being held all over the country. The amount allotted to Davidson was $4,000, but this limit was soon reached, and a new goal was fixed so that students would give to their greatest capacity. The spirit of co-operation and self-sacrifice exhibited by the student body is a sure sign of their splendid character and love for country.

The S. A. T. C., which has been the bane of many students because of the early rising hour and the large amount of manual labor connected with it, is soon to be replaced by a new organization. This new organization will not be as rigid as the old S. A. T. C. nor will it be as irksome to the students as a whole. Only three hours of drill a week will be required, and only a small amount of classroom work. The new organization will be called the R. O. T. C. (Reserved Officers Training Corps.)

INTERCOLLEGIATE TEAM (Continued from page 1)

and are sparing no efforts to win the decision for Davidson. Washington and Lee defeated the Wildcat debaters at Lexington last year, and the upholders of the Red and Black are out to even the score. Stith, who will open the argument for Davidson, entered the Wildcat ranks this year, coming from Stetson University, where he distinguished himself in forensic circles, representing that school in intercollegiate debating last year.

Hollingsworth, the second speaker for Davidson, is in his Sophomore year, and has already shown himself to be an outstanding man in literary circles. During his Freshman year he captured both the debating and declaiming medals in the Fresh-Soph contests in the Pandeinic Society, and was a strong contender in the intercollegiate preliminaries last spring. He is sure to carry his part of the burden to the honor of old Davidson.

Walthall is well-known in scholastic circles for his literary work. Duke is president of the Pandeinic Society, having previously served as critic. During his Junior year he won the Junior-Senior Debater’s medal in his society. Others who entered the preliminaries, and who deserve credit for their work, are Harry Price, D. B. Wharton, P. M. Patterson, and E. T. Pullen.

LOOK MEN

Several Days—Is Widely-Read Author

Mr. S. D. Gordon, a widely known author and powerful speaker, has been secured to address the Davidson College Y. M. C. A., December 2nd to 4th, inclusive. It is probable that he will also speak at the church on Sunday morning, December 2nd. The speaker is booked to deliver a series of addresses in Durham the last week of November. The local Y. M. C. A. officers, finding that he would be so close, got to work at once and managed to secure him for Davidson students.

Mr. Gordon has spoken to thousands. He became a public speaker in 1895 and has traveled widely, delivering his talks on religion. He is also the author of pamphlets dealing with different phases of religion. The speaker has been connected with Y. M. C. A. work for a great number of years, having served as secretary in Philadelphia and also as state secretary of Ohio. His trip to Durham will be his second one. The business men of the tobacco city were so pleased with him the first time that they have secured him again.

Davidson students will have the opportunity of hearing Mr. Gordon probably twice a day during the time he is here. He is a powerful speaker and drives his points home.

HILLHOUSE MAKES FINE ADDRESS (Continued from page 1)

of the church lay,” Albert said, “in the hypocrisy of many of its members. Those men who live Sunday correctly and are careful about their own selves, but let the man in the gutter go on in his ruinous way are like the Pharisees who pull away their cloaks lest they be contaminated. Upon such, we remember, Christ poured His strongest condemnation.”

In closing Hillhouse gave some of the needs of men today. He showed how this country is filled to superfluity with doctors, lawyers, teachers, and yet the world outside is lacking and calling for them. Our nation has churches and organizations in abundance in some sections, especially in the cities, where organizations are too numerous, yet the world is in need and one-half have not heard of Christ. Our own land is not living Christianity and has failed to lead the world toward better living.

“It is up to every college man,” Hillhouse said, “to consider what his attitude shall be. How shall we fit in? Shall we take a sane view of world conditions, and seeing the need of men of power and courage, go forth to give our best for our fellowman, or shall we think that the world’s trouble is too great for us to help in remedying and thus go forth with the desire to make the best for ourselves?” To Christ, who told men of the white fields of harvest and reprimanded them for standing all the day idle in the midst of work to do, we will have to answer at last. “Each of us must ask himself the question, Shall I fail to answer to the ‘Need of a world of men for me’?”

SPECIAL HOLIDAY OFFER

Attention Ladies: Don’t spend your hard-earned money foolishly and buy for Father, Brother, Husband, or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled or plated watch. Give him the best there is, it is the cheapest in the end, to be remembered forever. Limited quantity, genuine, solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold watches, Plain, engraved, thin or octagon shape. Elgin or Waltham movements, fifteen jewelled, or Illinois twenty-one jewelled movements. Guarantee enclosed with every watch. Send Post Office order now, don’t delay, and receive watch immediately sent to you, registered, fully insured, packed in an expensive, beautiful lined gift case. Act quick. Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, solid-gold, white or green wrist watches, latest designs, octagon shape models, full jewelled. The very thing that you have wanted, and admired on others. Now in the reach of everybody. Get one while they last.

EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO. 1482 Broadway, N. Y. C.

Freshman Defeated by Big Score of 40-14—Both Teams Used Aerial Route for Scores

The South Carolina Freshmen succeeded Wednesday in defeating the Wildkittens, 40-14, after four quarters of hard fighting and numerous breaks in their favor. The South Carolinians outweighed the Kittens at least ten pounds and used this weight to great advantage.

It was a hard-fought game from start to finish. Both sides used the forward pass as the main method of attack. Hewlett ran the team like a veteran and showed great headwork. He also did the passing and did it well except once when a Carolina tackle got to him before he could throw the ball. Sapp started on the offense, making many yards through the line and around end. Legette and Allen played air-tight ball.On the defense and threw the Carolina backs for substantial losses several times. Green showed up well in the line until he was removed on account of injuries. Bohannan played a good game at end and broke up several trick plays before they got started. Johnson, who only played a few minutes, caught a pass and ran through the whole Carolina backfield for Davidson’s second touchdown. Davidson's first counter came after Allen had intercepted a pass in midfield. Hewlett passed another pass to Allen for nine yards. A pass and line play resulted in no gain. Sapp made it first down, a line buck failed and a pass was grounded. Pinkney caught a pass and ran to the eight-yard line. Leggette added one and Sapp then made a touchdown, scoring through the line. Lincoln kicked goal. Davidson's second touchdown came after Carolina had punted across the goal line. Sapp was thrown for a 6-yard loss. Two passes in quick succession were good for 40 yards. Two more passes failed, and then Sapp passed one to Johnston who ran 25 yards through the Carolina backs for a touchdown. Lincoln again kicked goal.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATE AROUSING GREAT INTEREST

The inter-society Junior-Senior debate is arousing much interest among the members of the societies as the time approaches for the semi-finals to be held. As yet only one society has selected its team, that being the Pandeinic. This society will be represented by A. P. Hudgins, L. B. Gibbs, and D. B. Walthall. The Philanthropic Society held its preliminaries last Monday night, while the Metrophilians tried out on the following Wednesday. The semi-finals will be held on November 21st and 23rd. On the 21st the Pandeinic and Metrophilian societies will debate, the Pandeinic upholding the negative. On the 23rd, the Eu’s and Phi's will meet, the Eumenean defending the negative. The winner of each of these debates will meet on December 7th for the final fray. The query, “Resolved, That Congress at its coming session should enact legislation to relieve the wheat-growers of the U.S. by guaranteeing them a price sufficient to net at least ten per cent over the cost of wheat production as estimated by government statistics,” affords an opportunity for a fine debate. It may be of interest to note that last year the Pandeinic society won the debating cup.

STUDENT BIBLE CLASSES HAVE PROVEN SUCCESSFUL

The success of the new Sunday morning Bible classes has been assured by the good attendance which these classes have received for the past few weeks. The new plan of studying student problems and their solutions instead of merely studying the Bible has secured the immediate approval of the student body. These meetings follow the general line of discussion suggested in the textbook Student Standards of Action. Some of these problems which have been discussed are Readjustments, An Expense Account, and Real Efficiency. Every Wednesday night at 9:30 the leaders meet with Professor Fleagle to prepare the next Sunday's lesson. Professor Fleagle not only makes valuable suggestions of his own but also discusses and points the solution to those problems which the individual leaders bring to him. Undoubtedly the excellent advice of Professor Fleagle to the leaders has been one of the main reasons for the success of these meetings. The topic for next Sunday is College Friendships.

Pandeinic

An interesting program was staged at the last meeting of the Pandeinic. The question for debate was: Resolved, That Congress at its coming session should enact legislation to relieve the wheat growers of the U.S. by guaranteeing to them a price sufficient to net at least 10 per cent profit over the cost of production as estimated by government statistics. Milton and Rice debated on the affirmative while Zimmerman and Pitts opposed them. Everyone had prepared well for the debate. The affirmative were given the decision. Ford had a fine oration on: The Efficiency of the German School System, and R. M. Carr had prepared some rather trivial and amusing current events. There was a discussion about the advisability of having a society key or pin. No definite action was taken, it being deferred until the next society meeting. The night of the Fresh-Soph declamation contest was fixed as December 4th.

Senior Eumenean

The house was called to order by the president, and after the scripture reading, Bragaw led in prayer. The debate was upheld on the affirmative side by W. H. Allison, F. N. Anderson, and B. C. Bell, the latter being chosen from the house. On the negative were A. C. Wildman, N. Sullivan, and A. T. Rowe. The negative won the debate. P. B. Freeland gave an oration on “Peter Stuart Ney,” and J. I. Smith acted as reviewer.

Philanthropic

The Philanthropic Literary Society met in regular session last Thursday night, and an interesting program was rendered. The subject for debate was: Resolved, That Congress at its next session should enact legislation guaranteeing to wheat growers of the United States a net profit of at least 10 per cent of the cost of growing wheat, as estimated by government statistics. The debaters were: W. J. Calhoun, B. U. Ratchford on the affirmative, and H. D. Burke, D. M. Curry on the negative. The judges rendered their decision unanimously in favor of the negative. After the regular debate was given, H. Y. Alexander on the affirmative, and W. H. Fitts on the negative, gave an extemporaneous debate in favor of the negative. The closing event was an oration, The Value of a Purpose, by H. M. White, which received much applause from the society. As a whole, it was a good program and was thoroughly enjoyed by those present.

Junior Eumeneans

Since there was no program prepared, the president of the society called on T. T. Jones for an oration on: The Recent Armistice Day Celebration on the Davidson Campus; F. Earnest for his opinion on: America’s Victory in the World War, and E. C. Carroll to explain the Value of Stage Training to the Public Speaker. The subject for debate was: Resolved, That State Colleges are more efficient than Church Colleges. The affirmative was upheld by Williams, Alexander, and Shelby. On the negative were Lynch, Love, and Woods. Judges voted in favor of the negative. The criticism by Branch, the reviewer, was complimentary to all.

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society held its regular meeting on November 13th, and after the regular program was dispensed with, the election of officers was held. Those elected were: President, R. L. Price; vice-president, J. E. Singletary; secretary, Parker. First critic, Henderson; second critic, Trawick. Supervisors: Pullen, first supervisor; McIntosh, second supervisor. The Fresh-Soph Declamation contest will be held on December 4th.

ALUMNI ON HILL FOR PHI GAMMA INSTALLATION

Dr. F. H. Baker, C. & O. Hospital, Clifton Forge, Va.; L. B. McKeithen, Cameron, S. C.; A. T. Cashion, Gastonia, N. C.; E. A. Noah, Winston-Salem, N. C.; M. R. Doubles, Richmond, Va.; M. A. Siske, U. of Va.; L. P. Good, Johns-Hopkins; E. T. Woolfolk, Tunica, Miss.; M. B. Foil, Concord, N. C.; W. H. Moore, Concord, N. C.; J. G. Richards, Liberty Hill, S. C.; M. M. Erwin, Honea Path, S. C.; W. H. Miley, Cooleemee, N. C.; W. E. Covington, Lenoir, N. C.; C. H. Long, Winston-Salem, N. C.; D. M. Chalmers, Richmond, Va.; J. M. Gaston, Lowell, N. C.; F. P. Hall, Belmont, N. C.; R. D. Hall, Belmont, N. C.

BELK BROS. CO. Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS

Schloss, Styleplus, and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS

New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c Men’s medium weight unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c Men’s silk sox 48c, 85c, $1.00