THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

Four Literary Societies Make Plans For Initiating Eus, Phis, Pans, and Metros Hold First Meetings of Year this Week

The four literary societies of Davidson are already laying plans for what looks to be one of the biggest years
in their history. Each society has made arrangements for the reception and initiation of the new men, always an important
feature. It is hoped and expected that more Freshmen will identify themselves with one of them as soon as possible.

The Eumenean (Eu) Society meets in Eu Hall every Thursday night. Its membership is largely, though not exclusively, composed of
men. The first meeting will be held Thursday night of this week. The reception of Freshmen will probably take place
a week later. The officers of the society are: President, L. Elkins; vice-president, J. R. McLean; secretary, J. A. Bouvier.
Anyone desiring to identify himself with this society may get in touch with any one of these men who will
give him more detailed information.

The Metrophilian (Metro) Society meets in Phi Hall on Tuesday night. The majority of the members of this society are
from North Carolina. A meeting was held last Tuesday night. The new men will be pledged on next Tuesday night
and initiated on the following Tuesday. The officers are: President, W. Z. Bradford; vice-president, W. M. Gracey; secretary, H. Lawson.
A. M. McBryde and R. Parker have charge of the reception and initiation of Freshmen.

The Pandeinic (Pan) Society meets on Tuesday night in Eu Hall. The membership of this society is made up to
a considerable extent of men from beyond the borders of North Carolina. The first meeting has already taken place and
the initiation of new members will probably be held on next Tuesday night. The officers of the society are: President,
W. M. Cox; vice-president, H. B. Price; secretary, F. T. Franklin; critic, D. B. Walthall. S. S. Hudgins and D.
B. Walthall compose the committee on the reception and initiation of Freshmen.

The Philanthropic (Phi) Society meets on Thursday night in Phi Hall. The membership is made up largely of North Carolina
men. The first meeting will be held on Thursday night of this week. The initiation will probably take place on
next Thursday evening. The officers of the society are: President, J. L. McLean; critic, P. J. Story.

Although the membership of each pair of societies is made up to a certain extent from either out-of-state or in-state
men, yet these lines are not rigidly drawn and each Freshman will find a ready welcome in any one of
them, no matter whether he hails from the Old North State or from beyond its borders. The Eumenean, Philanthropic, and
Metrophilian Societies usually have Freshmen societies until after Christmas, when all Freshmen are taken into the Senior society. The Pandeinic
Society does not follow this custom but receives new members immediately into full and regular standing.

ALPHA PHI EPSILON IS NEW FRATERNITY

A chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon, the national literary society fraternity, has been established at Davidson. The installation ceremonies took
place late last spring when Gavel and Forum, the local honorary fraternity with the same purpose, was transformed into the
Phi Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon. Alpha Phi Epsilon has been in existence for several years and embraces a large
number of chapters, chiefly among the more prominent colleges and universities of the South and West. Its purpose is to
promote the work of literary societies in general and to honor those men who have attained distinction in their society
work. Although it is a comparatively young fraternity, yet it has already taken its place among the leading forensic organizations
of the country.

Many New Members

There are four active members of the fraternity now on the campus: Warren Cox, Liston Elkins, Albert Hillhouse, and Barclay
Walthall. The faculty members are: Professor Currie and Drs. J. M. McConnell and W. L. Porter. Several new men will
soon be initiated and Alpha Phi Epsilon bids fair to fill a long-felt need on the campus.

SIX PARTIES MAKE AUTO TRIPS TO PACIFIC COAST

Western Trips Popular With Boys During Summer Months

No less than six different parties of Davidson men have made trips to the West this summer. All of these
men report a fine time and wonderful scenery. The trips were made at a very small cost; one man even
coming back with more money than when he left.

The first party to leave was composed of Hugh Wells and his brother, Lucien. These boys took the middle trip,
going out through Tennessee, Arkansas, and straight out to San Francisco. They made the trip in seven weeks and came
back by way of Chicago, Niagara Falls, New York, and Washington.

The second party to leave was composed of Johnnie McCallum and John Adams. These boys left immediately after commencement, and
in the course of eight weeks journeyed 11,000 miles. They took the southern trip down through Texas, out through New
Mexico, and on to the coast. They were traveling in a renowned “Tin Lizzie,” and Bill Cooper reports that she
never missed a lick on the entire trip and that she was sold at the end of the trip for
only two hundred dollars less than the price for which she was bought. Bill says that the trip cost three
hundred dollars less than they estimated.

The next party to leave was composed of Henry Morris, Hugh Smith, Doctor Porter, and Randolph Jones. This group left
on the 9th of June and was two and a half months on the road. Leaving Davidson, they went down
through Georgia, Alabama, and on to Baton Rouge, La. They then traveled on to New Orleans seeing the sights and
cities. It was from this place that they went out to the biggest sugar mill in the world, where they
spent a most interesting day seeing the non-saccharine products being made. After leaving New Orleans, they went on to Houston,
San Antonio, and El Paso, the home of Railroad Jones. Here they spent four days in a most delightful visit
with Railroad. Then they headed north to the Apache Indian reservation, where the Mescalero Indians hang out. They were here
on the Fourth of July and witnessed a most patriotic celebration. It was intensely cold, the place being at an
altitude of seven thousand feet above sea level, but the Indians did not seem to mind, being seemingly carried away
by the fervor of their patriotism. They danced such weird dances that one would have to go to Jones to
see exactly what their technique was. Then they headed west across the continental divide at an altitude of eight thousand
feet, on to the Grand Canyon. Traversing the road in the bed of the Colorado River, they finally came to
Needles, Calif., where the heat was 114 degrees in the shade. Henry Morris said that he dropped an egg on
the pavement,and that before it could spread out good it was fried. Then they passed on to Los Angeles, but
were afraid to tackle Hollywood. They traveled slowly northward up the coast until they came to Portland, Ore., whence they
speeded their journey across the deserts to Chicago, on down the Lincoln highway to Washington and thence home through Virginia.

Several interesting occurrences happened on the trip. At Eugene, Ore., a small town 50 miles south of Portland, they met
Zan McAffister, who had arrived there by the northern route through Canada, Banff, and Lake Louise. Twice they met Mr.
and Mrs. J. B. Whitener, of Cornelius, who were traveling with a bunch of Trinity men. The first time they
ran across them was in a tourist camp in San Francisco, and the second was in Yellowstone National Park. Goat
Lewis, traveling just a week behind Dr. Porter and his party, worked his way through to Los Angeles, where he
toiled four weeks as a carpenter’s assistant, making enough money to finance his entire trip home, which he made from
the west coast in 13 days.

All the men interviewed were enthusiastic over their trips and say that if the opportunity comes to any Davidson man
to take a similar trip he should jump at the chance. So next summer when the traveling bug starts scratching,
just leave old Kate in the field, crank up the old family jitney and highball it for the tall timber.
Go west, young man, go West!

COURT OF CONTROL (Continued from page 1)

penalties to be meted out to unruly Freshmen—far from it. Every Freshman who appeared before the court during the past
year was received with brotherly sympathy by men who loved Davidson and who were eager to promote the interests of
every man in the college. Though many Freshmen were sent away without a penalty attached, not one left without his
errors pointed out to him and without the sympathetic reasoning and advice by those men who were so concerned about
the future of Davidson and its ideals. And we believe that we are safe in stating that not a man
left the doors of the court except with the conviction that he had received a square deal from eight men
who were his friends.

But this does not cover the activities of the court by far. For if we were limited to contact only
with those men who are summoned for discipline, our purpose would be defeated and our opportunities lost. But our plans
are broader than this and our program one that should make out of every new man a more loyal son
of Davidson and a man more able to meet and take advantage of the opportunities which he cannot avoid during
his four years on the campus. In short, our program is this: The Court of Control has provided certain rules
to which a Freshman must conform if he would not be conspicuous and thus be summoned for discipline. But this
is only part. What we believe will be most effective in guiding the Freshmen into the proper channels for his
stay in Davidson is the following:

In conjunction with the officers of the student body, we have divided the Freshman class into small groups. At the
head of each group, there has been placed a competent Senior as leader of the group. We have provided speakers
from the upper classes who will meet these groups individually and each present a particular phase of college life. There
are a large number of subjects to be presented and no doubt the program will extend through the entire year.
Each month the leaders of the groups will investigate the grades of his men and visit them personally as he
sees fit, offering his help to those who need it. He will also keep in touch with the campus activities
of his men and advise them accordingly. Anyone can readily see that with this method in operation much good can
be accomplished and many errors avoided which formerly were due simply to ignorance on the part of the new men.

In addition to this, the court is promoting talks to the three upper classes in order to keep them in
touch with the work and to secure their continued co-operation. And we will gladly welcome any suggestion from any member
of the student body or any alumnus who is interested in the work of the new system.

Now Davidson men, we all know that this year is a turning point in the history of our college. The
opportunity is ours to make this the greatest year in her history. The Court of Control is one cog in
our wheel of progress that is rolling on to a Greater Davidson. Give us your support, and we pledge our
sincere service to you and our Alma Mater.

DOCTOR SMITH RECEIVED INTO PHI BETA KAPPA

Dr. Egbert W. Smith, '82, elected as a charter initiate of the Davidson chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at the
installation in March, was taken into the fraternity last Saturday, during his first visit to his Alma Mater in a
number of years. Dr. Smith was honor man of his class, and his success after leaving Davidson has been none
the less than his success at Davidson. At present, he is secretary of Foreign Missions of the Southern Presbyterian Church
and is reputed as being the first authority on such matters. He has just returned from an extended observation tour
of the mission fields and will be remembered by the present student body as being the deliverer of a most
interesting address on his travels.

Dr. Smith's success and his election to Phi Beta Kappa adds another honor to that family of Smiths which already
boasts of two successful literary men, one Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Washington and Lee University and former president
of Davidson College, the other Dr. Alphonso Smith, professor at the United States Naval Academy.

Have you noticed the number of Freshmen going to the shoe repair shop lately? Fresh Deck says the road from
his home here sure is dusty.

COUNT RUMFORD 1753-1814

Born in Woburn, Mass., he became a Tory, went to England, and became Under-Secretary of State. Later, in Bavaria, he
reorganized the military department and was made Count Rumford. Returning to England, he engaged in scientific research, founded the Rumford
professorship at Harvard, and became a founder of the Royal Institution of Great Britain.

Thousands of people had watched the boiling pot, but Count Rumford wondered why it boiled. He did more than wonder;
by scientific research, he found out for himself. And Rumford laid the foundation of the greatest generalization the human mind
has yet conceived—the law of the conservation of energy.

The General Electric Company, by continuous scientific research, has developed new and better ways of making electricity of use to
mankind.

Scientists in the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company are devoting their lives to pure research, carrying on the
work of Rumford and other pioneers of modern science. By methodical investigation, the frontier of scientific knowledge is being pushed
steadily forward.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
