” - THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1923

BUCK CURRIE SECURED TO COACH BASEBALL

When the first call for baseball practice is made, A. L. Currie, former Wildcat star and now “Y” secretary, will be in charge of the pastimers. Dr. J. M. Douglas has announced that Buck is the man to fill the position. For four years, Buck has worked on the mound for the Presbyterians, and after his graduation in 1921, he pitched for the Little Rock Travellers along with two other Davidson hurlers, Coach Hengeveld and Norman Shepherd. In the spring of 1920, he led the Wildcat team as captain, and this season he will again be at its head in a larger way. 

In the fall of 1922, Buck took up his work as principal of the Davidson High School, and this year is general secretary of the Y. M. C. A. at Davidson. So, for the past six years, he has been intimately connected with student life on the campus. Of last year’s team, only five lettermen are back, so Coach Currie will have the job of rounding a new machine into shape. Captain Pat at first, Brice in the field, and three members of last year’s pitching staff are the nucleus around which this year’s team must be built, but the material is available, and under Buck’s leadership, the team will have a successful season. The best schedule in several years has been arranged with eight games at home and ten on the road. A game with Carolina has been scheduled for April 2, but the place is undecided. There is no doubt of Buck’s popularity or ability, the two essentials of real success as a coach.

TENNIS MANAGER PLANS FOR SPRING TOURNAMENT

Rain and snow and rain again, and drizzle, drip, and blow, and rain and snow and thaw and slush, and some more rain and snow. This is the present condition on the campus now, but it will not last, and before long the sun will shine forth, and with it will come the birds, and leaves, and tennis sharks. It is a little early to predict anything about the personnel of this year’s tennis team, but from the vast amount of material, a team should be chosen of such a calibre that the eagle of victory should again perch on the back of the Wildcat, and the championship of North Carolina should rest again with the folds of the old Red and Black. Manager Price is now in the act of making out his schedule and is in correspondence with the authorities concerning the State tournament at Durham this spring. He is also arranging meets with the principal colleges of this State.

THE Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” SPORTING GOODS Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach, and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for A. G. Spalding & Bros. Rackets Restrung by an Expert Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. RALPH PAUL, Mgr. CHARLOTTE, N.C.

ATHLETICS NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

NORMAN BRUCE EDGERTON, '09 Football, Baseball

Norman Bruce Edgerton of New Bern, N. C., entered Davidson in the fall of 1905, and for four years he made himself famous as a fighter and worker on the gridiron. Red failed to make a letter his freshman year, but for the next three years as center, made a name for himself in Wildcat grid annals. Few centers have surpassed him, and his playing was a feature of every game. His junior year, he captained the Red and Black, and that season the Wildcats made one of the best records in their history. Only five college games were played, but the Wildcats were victorious in three, and only one was lost. Virginia was tied 5-5, the only time Davidson ever scored against her in football. V. P. I. and Clemson both succumbed to the attack of Red’s fighting team, and then A. & M. won 6-0 in a bitterly contested affair. They were South-Atlantic champions, however, and the man who won the game and gained the majority of the ground was later declared ineligible. The Red and Black wound up the season in a blaze of glory by defeating the fighting cadets from V. M. I. 10-6. His senior year, Red managed the baseball team. After graduating, Red assisted in the coaching department at Davidson and then went to the College of Charleston. From Charleston, he went to the University of South Carolina and made the Gamecocks a leading factor in Carolina athletics. Only two college teams have ever beaten the Wildcats on the gridiron at Davidson, and Red's palmetto team accomplished the feat in 1913. Furman won in 1902, and together with the University under Red Edgerton, stand out as the only teams to turn the trick. All the world loves a fighter, and for this reason, Red will always be welcome at Davidson. As a member of the alumni coaching staff, he has been seen on the hill more than once and is always ready to do all in his power for Davidson.

CONCORD AND MAIDEN DEFEATED BY DAVIDSON

During the last week in January, the local High School opened its 1923 basketball season with two victories to its credit. The first with Maiden High School, 32-11, and the second with Concord High School, whom they trounced to the tune of 24-18. In the first game with Maiden, neither team showed very much form, and the game was slow and uninteresting as a whole. Maiden started off the scoring with a goal by Runer, but Davidson soon chalked up six points and a safe lead, which they held the rest of the half, which ended with the score 19-6 in their favor. The second half went very much as the first, Davidson out-playing and out-guessing their less experienced opponents. For Davidson, the shooting and floor work of Johnson and Thompson were big factors in the victory, while Heabern, at center, showed the best form for the visitors.

CONCORD GAME

In the second game with Concord, the contest was close and exciting from the tip-off. Both teams played good basketball, and the outcome of the game was in doubt until the final whistle blew. Concord began the scoring in the first two minutes of play by caging three points. Davidson soon came from behind and scored two field goals in close succession. The score see-sawed back and forth during the first quarter, but a rally by Davidson gave them a four-point lead at the end of the first half. The Concord team came back in the second half and nearly tied the score, but the guarding of Thompson and Grey seemed too much for the visitors, and when the final whistle blew, the score stood 24-18 in Davidson’s favor. The playing of Johnson at forward, who scored 12 of his team’s points, was nothing short of sensational. Bohannon and McConnell also played good basketball.

FORMER DAVIDSON ATHLETE (Continued from Page 1)

takes up the work and comes to Davidson with three highly successful years of coaching experience behind him. On the gridiron, he has coached the wing men, and each year a V. P. I. end has been selected on the mythical South-Atlantic eleven. With both Wildcat ends back under the tutelage of Younger,

WRESTLING TEAM FAST ROUNDING INTO SHAPE

Wrestling is well under way, coached by Harry Bangle from Charlotte and led by Captain Cromartie. Davidson's grapplers are sure to be a stumbling block in Trinity’s way on the 23rd, and Carolina’s on the 24th of this month. Coach Bangle has developed many good wrestlers and in his day was for four years the champion of the Navy. He has yet to be thrown. At Trinity, there is one man who wrestles in three classes. He won the light-heavyweight title in the Carolina Olympic last year. Trinity has already defeated Carolina and looms up as the strongest team in the Old North State. Carolina’s star is Poindexter, who won the heavyweight title in the Carolina Olympic. He was thrown last summer at Montreat by Lindawood, who is Davidson’s heavyweight this year, having come here from McCollie. Both Trinity and Carolina are to be encountered on their mats, and there is a real stiff proposition for the Wildcats to face. Davidson’s material is very good, having of last year experience White, Patterson, Kimsey, Cochran, and Cromartie. In addition to these is Selser of the Georgia Tech squad of last year, and Harry Lindawood.No team in the State should have a better defensive or offensive combination on the flanks. This same pair of Wildcat ends threw back the Tech runners for loss after loss last fall, and the strong showing of the Red and Black against the Virginians was due largely to their work. The Wildcats, since the departure of Bill Fetzer, have often been criticized for their lack of aggressiveness. The defense has been a stone wall, but the vital spark was lacking on the offense. Younger, himself one of the most aggressive players on the gridiron, has the gift of imparting the fight to his men and of drilling into them a versatile and strong attack. As a basketball coach, Younger turned out a team which was regarded last year as the best claimant for South-Atlantic honors. At the present time, the interest in basketball is increasing steadily, and there has never been more or better material. The Wildcats this season are one of the most formidable machines in the State, and few men will be lost by graduation. Younger also knows the diamond pastime from the first word to the last. He appears in Davidson this spring as coach of the Techmen, and the Wildcats will have a hard tussle to win. All in all, no selection could have been more popular with the students, and though realizing the disadvantages under which a coach labors during his first season, every Wildcat supporter is looking forward to the coming season as a time for revenge for some of the defeats suffered lately.

Coach Younger hails from Lynchburg, Va. From the Lynchburg High School, he went to Fishburne where Bill Fetzer was coaching. When his coach came to Davidson in the fall of 1915, he followed him and made a remarkable athletic record during his first year. "Monk" is the only athlete who has ever succeeded in making a letter in four branches of sport at Davidson. His performance is all the more noteworthy because he accomplished this feat during his freshman year. He played end on the football team, being picked unanimously for an all-State berth and prominently mentioned for all-South Atlantic honors. He played guard on the basketball team and made his track monogram by winning the high jump. The following year, Younger went to V. P. I. where he starred in football, basketball, and baseball. During his stay at Virginia Tech, he was considered one of the best ends in the South. Walter Camp, on seeing Younger perform against Yale, came out on the field and complimented him, saying that Younger was the most aggressive end he had ever seen play on a Southern team. In 1917, Younger joined the University of Virginia Ambulance Unit and saw 17 months of service overseas. Returning in 1919, he became Athletic Director at Hampden-Sidney College and turned out some remarkably fine teams. The following year, he was called to V. P. I. to be an assistant on the gridiron and the head coach of basketball and baseball. In accepting the position as head coach at Davidson, Coach Younger said: “I cannot resist the call of my old Alma Mater, and will report September 1 to give my best in the upbuilding of the thin red line.”

STUDENTS CHECK FIRE BY VALIANT EFFORTS

The Red Destroyer has once again knocked at the town gates, this time in the partial destruction of the home of Dr. J. M. McConnell. The fire was discovered about 11 o'clock Monday morning and had gained considerable headway in and around the furnace chimney before the firefighters took a hand. The alarm spread rapidly, and quite a number of students gathered to aid in the saving of the contents of the house and to endeavor to extinguish the blaze.

The volunteer firemen, within a short time, had every removable piece of furniture and fixtures in the house rescued from the threatening flames. Meanwhile, a bucket line had been formed and a hose from the nearby mill connected up in an effort to control the blaze. By means of tearing away the shingles and placing wet blankets upon the roof, the flames were soon checked, and what promised to be quite a fire in its early stages was confined to the roof and upper part of the house. The damage consisted mainly of the destruction of the roof in the rear and of water damage to a few rooms below. Just how much the furniture was damaged in its sudden removal is not known. As is usual to such catastrophes, many heroes were brought to light, and quite a number of heroic acts took place during firefighting, among which the most notable were the removal in a decidedly careful and cautious manner by Izzie Smith, the commissarian, of a bottle of precious blackberry wine, the wrenching away and subsequent removal of radiators and the kitchen sink by Lindermood, the rescue of a box of oranges by Bevo Davis, and the now famous trouser strength-test by Fresh Sinclair. Soon after the extinguishing of the blaze, Doctor McConnell had repairers on the job, and temporary repairs were made in order to prevent further water damage in case of rain. The house is one of that number owned by the college, and the exact plans in regard to final repairs are not known just at present. Doctor McConnell and his family are temporarily staying at the home of Doctor Martin. It is understood that the loss was fully covered by insurance. Appreciation of the services that the students rendered in their efforts to save the house was tendered to the student body by Doctor McConnell and Doctor Martin in Chapel Tuesday morning. It is the general opinion of all that what might have been a serious fire was averted by the quick action of the students.

GEORGIA CLUB ENJOYS GET-TOGETHER MEETING

On Wednesday night, January 31, at the Trough, 29 Georgia Crackers and two Tar Heels seated themselves at one of the biggest and most attractive feeds ever held on Davidson’s campus and the best get-together feed ever enjoyed by the Georgia Club. The purpose of the feed and the business meeting that followed was to lay plans for the fulfillment of the club’s slogan: “One hundred Crackers at Davidson in 1923-1924.” After the luscious spread, which was prepared by Miss Rosa Shumaker in her usual fine style, the club welcomed Harry Fraser, brother of Tom Fraser and a Davidson alumnus, who expressed his pleasure of being on the hill once more. He touched on his college experiences on and off the hill. After his address, the assemblage turned its attention to the sagacious humor of Simryl Bryant, the silent wit of Piggy Martin, and the originality of C. F. Wildman. After such a rare combination of treats, Toastmaster Arnett Gamble presented the more serious side of the meeting. He presented Mr. Jackson, the college treasurer, who told of the plans for the Davidson advertisement campaign to be waged during the next few months. The other Tar Heel, Buck Currie, then told of the duties of the Davidson men in helping to get a representative student body and living up to the standards set by the former Davidson students. Harry Fraser then told of Chambers of old and the need of a new and better Chambers. He also told of the spirit of fellowship that exists between the alumni of the Alma Mater. Bill Baker, president of the club, presented the campaign in Georgia. Complying with plans submitted by him, the club unanimously chose to select a Georgia alumnus to act as State secretary for the movement to bring more Georgia men to Davidson. His duty would be to correspond with graduates of the high schools of the State, whom the club members will recommend.