THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

BUCK CURRIE DELIVERS INSPIRATIONAL TALK

The Y. M. C. A. service held Sunday evening was second to none this term in its impressiveness. Buck Currie, the beloved “Y” secretary, and a man who knows conditions on the hill, addressed the meeting, taking for his subject: “The Renewal of the Contract Between God and Man.” He took as his text Gen. 9:13, “I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.”

“There are twelve major religions,” Buck said, “eleven of which are unreal—but each of which has some good points. The Christian religion is a combination of the good, and an exclusion of the bad, of the other religions.

“The book of Genesis tells the story of the foundation of this great religion, and of the relation of God and man. As man broke the first covenant, God renewed it, and gave man as a reminder the beautiful bow, which He set in the sky.

“The sun is shining always; the bow is always present. Yet we, being so close to it, lose sight of its beauty. Just as a person may behold the beauty of a forest from afar, yet when he stands in the midst of that forest lose sight of its beauty, so we, in the midst of God’s blessings, sometimes lose sight of Him. When you have a vision of God, whether the vision appears beautiful or not depends on your relation to Him.

“The scientific definition of the rainbow causes it to lose its beauty, but the real beauty, the real meaning given it by God, was as a symbol, a sign, a token of Divine Love. Unless we take the real significance of the rainbow, the significance God gave it, we cannot see its real beauty.

“Everything that is worth a great deal comes into our lives through sorrow of some kind. The rainbow came after the fall of man to remind man of his sorrow. It was taken and dedicated by God as a sign of God’s covenant with man, as a symbol of His Divine Love.

“All nature is the sign of God’s hand in the world. Looking on His works in their real significance, we cannot forget Him. The sacrament, baptism, the Bible, the house of prayer, are God’s tokens of His care for man.

“We see calamities, sorrows, destruction, fires; they are the work of God’s hand, and we must stand up under the calamities instead of becoming discouraged.

“We do not see the workings of God's bow in our own vision, but through the eyes of faith. If we do not see His hand in the works of man, our faith is blind. His love is manifest in the work of man among his fellow-men and in the hand-shake of man with man.

“The bow is a sign of God’s faithfulness to His contract. If the contract is broken, it will be broken by man.

“Christ, the perfect man, bore His cross to the top of the hill only to surrender Himself to the death of the cross. Sin retreated from the light of righteousness. He left His peace with us. ‘My peace I give unto thee.’”

Pat Crawford presided at the meeting, while Vic Brown led the singing. Kretschmar played the piano. White and Finn furnished instrumental music.

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE TO BE HELD AT STATE

The Seventh Annual Volunteer Conference will be held in Raleigh on March 9, 10, and 11. The meeting is expected to be the most successful yet held. A splendid program has been arranged for the three days, and the very best of speakers have been secured. They are Rev. Dr. Wade C. Smith, of Greensboro; Dr. Claude McLee, M. D., of the Episcopal Mission in China; Mrs. Berring, Baptist Foreign Mission; Mr. Frank J. Gilliam, the head of all missionary educational work in Africa; Lyman Hooner, traveling secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement; Virginia Pritchard and Dr. C. G. Homshell, of the Methodist Mission Board. All meetings will be held at the N. C. State Y. M. C. A. building.

On Friday night a stereopticon lecture will be given by Geo. C. Bellingrath, of Union Seminary. On Saturday evening a pageant entitled, “The Gift of Self,” will be given by the Trinity Board. After the pageant, an entertainment will be given to those attending the conference by the “Y” cabinets of Meredith College and N. C. State. The meetings will be presided over by Guy E. Weeks, of Davidson College, president of the Student Volunteer. Every meeting will be opened promptly and all doors will be closed after the meeting starts.

Davidson has ten delegates to the conference. They are: L. A. Guiton, G. E. Weeks, A. P. Hudgins, D. B. Wharton, W. T. Baker, A. M. McBryde, J. L. McLean, J. H. Davis, D. B. Walthall, and F. C. Thames.

CHARLOTTE PASTOR TO BE NEXT “Y” SPEAKER

Mr. W. B. McIlwaine, pastor of the

EMILIO BOSCH SPEAKS TO VOLUNTEER BAND

After the songs and Scripture reading, led by Green and McBride, Emilio Bosch talked on Educational Missions in Cuba before the Volunteer Band last Sunday. He brought out the fact that a missionary must be a man. He is doing a man’s work, and it is hard work, but it brings satisfaction. Bosch told the story of Rev. John G. Hall, who went to Cardenas, Cuba, in 1898. He was no longer a young man, and besides this, he worked under many difficulties—lack of strength, inadequate funds, and the strong opposition of the Catholic Church. However, he kept on at the work, and soon some of the men of the city proposed that he teach English to those who wished to learn it. He started a school, consisting of himself as teacher, and four boys and four girls as pupils. Inside of two years, there were eighty-six pupils and the school had to be moved to more spacious quarters. Later, Dr. Leslie Wharton, a Davidson man, took charge of the school because Mr. Hall was no longer able to conduct the work. Today there are seven hundred and fifty pupils in the central school at Cardenas. In the same system, there are ten schools, having a total enrollment of four thousand pupils. Last year there were thirty-five graduates. Eighty-nine teachers are employed, forty-six of whom are native Cubans. The Bible is taught in these schools, and although this is strongly opposed by the Catholic Church, pupils have to be turned away on account of a lack of room. At the beginning, Mr. Hall received $250 a month to be spent for the support of his school. Last year $85,000 was spent for the whole system.

PROFESSOR WAGNER IS MINISTERIAL SPEAKER

The Ministerial Band, at its meeting last Sunday morning, heard an instructive and interesting talk by Professor Wagner on the subject, “The Importance of Public Speaking to the Minister.” “The minister,” the speaker said, “has advanced and aided the cause of

No one who has heard him can fail to admit the bright spot in an otherwise disastrous account of that appeals to other young men. No one who has heard him can fail to admit that he is a most eloquent speaker. His first, Camp on the Christians’ court. Campaign, for it was the first time in recent memory that Davidson had taken Elon into

Not to be downed by the frown of Dame Fortune, Coach Grey’s warriors met Wake Forest at Davidson and staged a come-back, tasting sweet revenge for the defeat of the previous week. In this case, the score was a decisive one, 27 to 17. On the home court, the Red and Black machine was running smoothly, but down in the Palmetto State, a cog slipped somehow and two games were dropped to Clemson and Wofford, the latter by a heart-rending score of 32 to 30. About this time, Pat Crawford began to strut his stuff, and Furman was defeated by 39 to 34, a good finish for the South Carolina trip. But Warhoss Mauze was crippled in the Furman contest and his loss was irreparable to the Wildcats. Guilford and Elon each carried away the big end of a score, and the curtain dropped on Davidson’s cage sport until 1924.the 17 games, Captain Mauze is found at the top of the list, with 146 markers to his credit out of the 504 total. Captain George, early in his basketball career, won the appellation of “Warhoss” by his style of charging about the floor, swooping down on the ball via the aerial route, or diving under an opponent to gain possession of the sphere. Mauze’s ability to cover territory was astounding at times, and his defensive work was no minor part of the great game played by the Wildcat captain. Warhoss usually soared into the air and turned the ball loose while several feet above the floor—always good for two counters. From the 15-foot line Captain George also performed admirably. Running neck and neck with Mauze in scoring was Pat Crawford, with 144 points in his favor. In view of the fact that Pat played at guard’s position, his topping the list in number of field goals is the more remarkable. Crawford was easily the best running guard seen on Davidson’s floor this year, and ought to land a berth on the mythical all-state five. Certainly, it will be a long time before D. C. finds another Pat Crawford. He and Warhoss will be losses hard to replace on next year’s team. Red Laird landed third place in the art of dropping the pill through the leather. 110 counters were due to Red’s fast playing and sure aim. Coming as a Freshman, Red has decidedly made good this year, and will be the only Freshman to receive the coveted “D” in basketball this season. With three years ahead of him, great things can be expected of Laird. At the other forward position, Staley and Beall both did great work, and not a few of the season’s scores were made by these fast, hard-playing Wildcats. Beall, a letter man last year, kept up his good record this year. Staley rose to prominence this season and his playing was steady, consistent, often flashy. Both Mac and Staley could be depended on to give the enemy everything they had. Figuring in terms of points doesn’t give due credit to Sook Boggs, who stuck around the enemy’s territory and messed up countless attempts to get at their goal. Sook was airtight on defensive work, and his services were invaluable to the Poison Squad. Two more years of work with the Wildcats ought to make Boggs a terror to any opponents. Nappy Davis, having won his letter at guard last year, was given the more difficult task this season of playing center, guard, or forward, wherever needed. At any one of these positions, he ran rings around his opponent, specializing in dribbling the length of the court through the whole defending team. Nappy ought to step into Warhoss Mauze’s shoes at the pivot position next year without any trouble. McConnell and Elkins rounded out the Wildcat squad. Both did their part in making the fighting felines the scrappers that they were, the former at guard, the latter at forward.

Summary of games played:
Played At Opponents
Charlotte ... Davidson, 36 Charlotte Y, 29
Davidson ... 38 Charlotte Y, 32
Davidson ... 21 N. C. State, 8
Concord .... 35 Concord Y, 28
Charlotte ... 27 Trinity, 39
Davidson ... 37 Wofford, 12
Davidson ... 37 Concord Y, 21
N. C. State.. 22 N. C. State, 26
Davidson ... 30 W. Forest, 29
Wake Forest 24 Elon, 24
Guilford .... 43 Guilford, 45
Davidson ... 27 W. Forest, 17
Clemson .... 18 Clemson, 25
Wofford .... 30 Wofford, 32
Furman .... 39 Furman, 34
Davidson ... 15 Guilford, 23
Davidson ... 25 Elon, 39

Leadership—
CHERO-COLA GRAPE-MELO ORANGE-MELO ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

Public speaking because the minister has had more opportunities for speaking, and has had a better education than most men. “The importance of having something to say has a great deal to do with the success of the minister. A century ago fluency of speech would have deceived a large part of the people, but today only a few can be fooled. Therefore, the minister should be an intelligent person, with perseverance. The minister must be acquisitive, and should always be on the lookout for good examples and illustrations to bring before his congregation. The minister must be experienced and must mix with the people at social gatherings, because it is the minister’s influence that lifts up the social world. “The minister must choose what is important, and must arrange his sermon so as to influence his people as much as possible. An authority has said that fifty percent of the efficiency of a sermon depends on its preparation. The minister must be a man of prayer and must take part in things other than religious affairs. No one has the opportunity to do as much good as the minister, because he can always get a hearing.”

COLUMBIA THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA
JOHN M. WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presbyterian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p.m., beginning Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednesday, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Charleston, S.C.

SMYTH LECTURES
BELK BROS. CO.
The Home of Better Values
CLOTHING DEPT.

Springtime is here and we are ready with all the new things in young Men’s New Spring Suits, made in serges, the new checks and stripes. Made in all the newest models and strictly hand-tailored. Specially priced at $19.95, $25.00, $29.50, and $35.00

NEW SPRING TIES
New spring silk ties made in all the new shapes and patterns. 50c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

Big lot Collars, laundered or soft, all new shapes.
Laundered Collars 25c, 35c, and 48c
Soft Collars 25c, 35c, and 48c

We are showing a swell line of Young Men’s Spring Felt Hats in all the snappy colors and shapes at $2.95, $3.95, and $4.95

MEN’S HOSIERY
Men’s Fine Lisle Thread Sox, all colors. 25c and 35c
Men’s Silk Sox, 35c and 48c

COLLEGE BOYS’ SHIRTS
College Boys’ Shirts made with or without collar, made in the new checks and stripes, also solid colors.