Wallop Wake Forest

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., OCTOBER 19, 1923

Frock Furman No. 5

STUNT NIGHT IS GRAND.

Capacity Crowds Enjoy Well-Rounded Program

Darktown Delights. Jazz Band and Symphony Orchestra Feature Evening’s Entertainment

JETHRO AND SPECK SHINE.

Glee Club and Mandolin Club Present Enjoyable Numbers

“The primary accident on the program was a concoction of the world’s greatest and the world’s smallest musical experts in
duets and quartets and triplets,” said Martin as he introduced one of the stunts of the night’s program presented on
Saturday night, October 13th, at Shearer Hall. The acts which followed this unusual introduction lived up to it in every
respect except they were by no means “accidents.” The stunts were arranged and faithfully rehearsed by volunteers from the student
body under the direction of Ted Jones, the real promoter and originator of the idea, and president of the Dramatic
and Glee Clubs, with the advice and assistance of Professor Erwin. Besides the stunts of the students, the Dramatic Club,
the Glee Club, the Mandolin and Guitar Club, the Jazz Band, and the Symphony Orchestra all took parts in the
program.

Stunt night lived up to the highest expectations of the student body. The program from beginning to end was full
of mirth and melody and was enjoyed by all of the six hundred and twenty-five persons who packed Shearer Hall
to its fullest capacity. As a substitute for Senior Speaking, it more than filled the bill and it is believed
that it will become an annual event at Davidson.

The program of the evening was presented in true vaudeville style. Each act was announced by a large placard borne
by Phifer Erwin and John Douglas dressed in grey dominoes. The first act was given by the Jazz Orchestra composed
of B. T. Crayton, J. W. Simpson, M. C. Dupuy, Watt Davis, George McCain, and W. I. Hodgkin. They played
“Somebody’s Sobbing Blues,” “Wrong,” and “House of David.”

(Continued on page 6)

Debating Fraternity Elects New Members

Alpha Phi Epsilon Elects Two Professors and Four Students to Membership

Alpha Phi Epsilon has elected to membership the following men: Professor C. K. Brown and F. L. Dendy; W. G.
Bradford, P. J. Storey, J. L. McLean, and D. B. Wharton. The purpose of the fraternity is to honor men
who have shown ability and have attained distinction in their work in the literary societies on the campus. These men
will probably be initiated at the next fraternity meeting.

Alpha Phi Epsilon is a comparatively young fraternity but the chapter has been taking great strides forward. At present, there
are 21 chapters located in the foremost colleges and universities of the South and West, which are Auburn, Emory, and
Southern California. There are now four active members of the fraternity on the campus: L. D. Elkins, W. M. Cox,
A. M. Hillhouse, and D. B. Walthall. The faculty members are: Professor Currie, and Drs. J. M. McConnell and W.
L. Porter. The new men have all been outstanding in the literary activities of the college.

(Continued on page 5)

YELLOW CAPS FINALE TO HOMECOMING DAY

Scrapping Wildcats Claw Bulldogs, 7 - 0

The following are those unfortunate men who, for offenses, have been “campussed” and are “Wearers of the Yellow Cap” for
the week of October 9-16: H. M. Austin, A. W. Alexander, J. C. Brown, T. E. Poole, G. A. Robinson,
and E. B. Hammock (two weeks). The first men penalized in this manner and who served the previous week were:
J. J. Clark, G. B. Moore, and J. H. Shelton.

Mr. F. L. Jackson Speaks On Sovereignty of God

Large Crowd Hears Address at “Y” Vesper Service

REGEN LEADS MEETING

Forceful Message Given to College Freshmen

Mr. F. L. Jackson spoke at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday, and, as he always does, he
brought the students an ever-welcome message in his valuable style of conversational speaking. The scripture lesson read was from the
third chapter of the book of Jonah.

“Often,” said the speaker in opening, “I find myself going to the Old Testament and to Jonah in order to
get again the messages found.” He then briefly related the story of Jonah and the prominent features of Jonah's call
to go to Nineveh, his failure to heed that call and his direct disobedience in setting out by ship for
far-away Tarshish, the subsequent storm at sea, Jonah’s repentance and its outcome, how he went to Nineveh, the repentance of
the Ninevites, and Jonah’s selfish action which brought the reproof of God upon him.

Mr. Jackson emphasized the sovereignty of God in his overruling of the affairs of men and nations and in his
great mercy toward all those who repent and seek him. “We find three great messages in Jonah,” he continued. “The
first is this sovereignty of God which must be recognized in a true interpretation of history. Then we see Jonah’s
narrow and selfish regard for the Jews and the Gentiles in his time. These Jews were selfish and wished to
keep their religion to themselves, therefore Nineveh.”

J. M. C. (TED) COVINGTON

Halfback whose brilliant play featured in the Wildcat-Bulldog clash

Carolina Concert Club Gives Musicale Monday

Charlotte Singers Aid Club in Shearer Hall Performance

MRS. BAKER DIRECTS CLUB

Vocalists to Appear Before Student Body

The Carolina Concert Club will appear at Shearer Hall, Monday night, October 22nd. The club is composed of eight men
who have been, for the past two years, under the constant direction of Mrs. Coral Baker, of New York and
Charlotte. The men are a selection of the best vocalists in Charlotte. They have been notable among various college events.to
let fail of. So we no Missionary Move—Jonah hated to go in relation to men everywhere to do this, Christ
(Continued on page 5) us is in our Wi ho other know. We have been giving concerts in the Carolinas
since their inception. One of the features at the Made-in-Carolina’s Exposition and the Automobile Show. Several of the members are
well-known Davidson performers for their individual work. Associated with the organization and were one of the Concert Club in their
performance here will be the beautiful Miss Nettie (Continued on page 3) four of Charlotte’s most talented young ladies.

WANT ADS
The want ad column in the Davidsonian will open in the next issue. The column will be devoted to Lost
and Found ads and want ads of the general type found in that column of daily papers. Students are requested
to use the column, doing away with the posting of such ads on the dormitory doors. The column is run
for your service, use it.

Delta Pi Kappa Elects Four Men to Membership.
A. M. Hurd, J. A. Lake, R. L. Price, and A. C. Wildman Elected
WORK FOR YEAR PLANNED
New Members to be Initiated at Next Meeting

Delta Pi Kappa, the local journalistic fraternity, has elected to membership the following students of Davidson: Reginald L. Price, J.
A. Lake, Allen M. Hurd, and A. C. Wildman. The election was held at the regular meeting of the fraternity
in the S.A.L. hall Tuesday Night, October 9th. The men will be initiated at the regular meeting of the fraternity
in the near future. Election to Delta Pi Kappa signifies that one has achieved unusual success in the journalistic activities
of the college. The election of the four new men was no surprise, as their journalistic work for the past
year has been of the highest order. Reginald L. Price holds the office of Business Manager of The Davidsonian; J.
A. Lake is Assistant Managing Editor, and A. C. Wildman an Associate Editor. Allen M. Hurd is head of the
Service Department and a member of the Reporters’ Club and Business Manager of the Davidson College Magazine. Price, Wildman, and
Hurd are all seniors, while Lake is a member of the junior class. All four of these men have been
active in Davidsonian work since their matriculation. Price, after serving in the Reporters’ Club, was appointed Business Manager last spring.
Wildman handles the religious news for the Davidsonian. Hurd is the organizer of the Service Department and, in addition, handles
town news. Lake, as Assistant Managing Editor, helps make up the paper every week. Members of Delta Pi Kappa in
the faculty are Prof. E. J. Erwin, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, and Prof. L. B. (Continued on page 5)

Carolina Concert Club
Richardson Field, New Wildcat Lair, Christened
Red and Black Warriors Defeat Citadel in Fiercely Fought Grid Battle
VICTORY CHRISTENS FIELD
Wick Black’s Fine Plunging Features Davidson Attack

Coach Vandiver’s cohorts defeated the Citadel Bulldogs in a hard-fought game at Davidson last Saturday. Displaying a variety of plays
which the Citadel eleven could not solve, the Davidson Wildcats christened the new Richardson Field with a 7 to 0
victory over the hard-fighting Bulldogs. The lone touchdown came in the first few minutes of the third quarter. After the
kick-off, an exchange of punts gave the ball to Davidson on Citadel’s 34-yard line. Hendrix called two plays through the
line for nice gains. The veteran quarterback then uncorked a 10-yard pass to Baker, substituting at end for Davis, who
out-fought the Citadel for 16 yards before being downed on Citadel's 6-yard line. Shepard fought right guard good for one
yard. Wick Black then made two pretty drives through the line from spread formation, carrying the ball over for Davidson’s
only counter. Shepard kicked the ball squarely between the uprights from placement, with Black holding the placement.

The game was hard-fought and too close for comfort, except for the third quarter in which the Davidson team hit
its stride. Punts featured throughout, with Shepherd of Davidson having the better of O'Shaughnessy in the many exchanges.

Citadel kicked off and Davidson drew first blood by gaining a first down on an offside penalty in the first
five seconds of play. The Bulldogs tightened here and Davidson was forced to kick, Citadel receiving the ball in midfield.
The Bulldogs, launching their first offensive from their own 30-yard line (Continued on page 7)

Davidson Debaters Meet W. & L. In December
Return Debate to be Held at Davidson. Virginians Won Last Year

The Wildcat debating team will meet the Washington and Lee speakers on December 14th, and the action will be seen
in Shearer Hall. Last year, W. and L. won the debate, but this year it is hoped that the reverse
will be the case. The teams for this debate will be composed of two men each, whereas last year there
were three men on each side. When these two teams last met, it was Davidson’s duty to furnish the query
for debate, while W. and L. had the choice of sides. This year, Washington and Lee must furnish the question
and Davidson will have the choice of which side to defend.

The preliminaries for the debate will be held sometime in the latter part of this month in order to give
the team selected ample time in which to prepare the final speeches. The prelims will be in the form of
individual tryouts. Any man wishing to come out for the debating team may choose either side of the question. The
final team will be chosen not according to the side which they represent but according to the merits of the
speech and the speaker.
