THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1923

20c & 35c PICTURES VAUDEVILLE 30-9 Night 7 ALHAMBRA “Always the Best for Less” 10c & 25c 30 COMEDY MUSICAL Matinee 3

HEST COLDS Rub Vicks over throat and chest until the skin becomes red—then spread on thickly and cover the parts with a hot flannel cloth. VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT Bay Rum Norton Bros. Barbers NEXT TO TOBE’S

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY PHONE 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh 221 West Trade Charlotte's Best Cafe

By BILL HESTON

DISCOVERIES George McCutcheon combs his hair with a washrag. Mason Field has acquired a new pair of barges after a year’s search by Scissors, Rareback & Co., for steers large enough to supply the leather. Skit McConnell has won a new candy case in a nation-wide beauty contest. Stud Trawick has been seen using “Camps’ Daily Dozen” as a reducer in his training program for final exams. With great sympathy for Cromwell, we note that one of the R. O. T. C. officers is soon to be transferred. Bill Glenn—Day by day, in every way, I am growing jollier and jollier. Some students seem to think that Jonah was a lounge lizard. W. F. Gallaway, the gushing and promising wielder of the poet’s pen of Davidson, has noticed that while many things come out in the spring, yet all the trees leave.

Drug Store Clerk—Is this the kind of thermometer you want, Mr. Sharpe? Hiram Sharpe—Yes, I want to put it in my room, and please set it at 70 degrees as the Doctor said that that was the ideal temperature for a room.

The Seven Wonders of Davidson: Ted Jones’ miscellaneous voice. Gig Shepherd’s golf playing ability. When “Bella Donna” will be played here. Friday afternoon dances with fifty fair danseuses to show us how. When “Bella Donna” will be shown here. How Bob McLeod scratched his arm last week. When “Bella Donna” will be shown here.

Down at the drug store the other day Red Smith laid his hat down on a chair and started looking at some magazines. Fresh Joyner came in and deposited his ponderous bulk on the hat without noticing it. “Young man,” said Red, who was quite perturbed, “do you realize what you are sitting on?” “I ought to,” retorted Joyner, who was not in the least disturbed, “I’ve been sitting on it for nineteen years now.”

A MERRY DRAMA Act The Next CONVULSION ELEVEN Mac—At last I’ve found the lost stanza. Vachel in all his glory never threw anything like this. Give ear gents. Steal a tune from Gounod, Filch a bar from Bach, Swipe a chord from Schumann, Or from Mozart’s stock. Sneak a snatch from Schubert, Crib the Serenade— Thirty cents a copy And your fortune’s made.

Bill—That was quite an entertainment while I was looking for my new Paisley, but I see now that adorns your neck. Mac—Quite so old hook worm, it’s the only tie I’ve had in my hands this year that I really like. Bill—I counted thirteen in your drawer the other day. Mac—Es verdad, but they don’t suit me. Bill—Speaking of “Mozart stock,” when I went down to Charlotte the other day to see Pola I stopped in at Mellons. You should have seen their stock of ties. They said that silk and wool poplin Foulards are the latest in neck wear. I bought a peach. Mac—I’m going down sooner or later. I’ll drop in. (To Be Continued)

Adv. Our idea of a tightwad is the bird who will drop from his fist. Jack Austin, stepping on a banana peel and while on the way to mother earth— “Gee, but I’m glad I ain’t Shorty Howell!”

“Daily dozen,” said Piccolo Booth as he downed his twelfth fried egg at the Trough. “This is my night. Sydenstricker-Sorrells—Yes, dreaming. Did you see me there? and then I knew I was dreaming. Bob McLeod—What do you expect to be when you get out of college? Bill Murray—An old man.

Student—Absent minded Prof. leave me alone.

Things for members of the Class of ‘23 to begin worrying about: A dip. A job. A dip. A job. A dip. A job.

Doctor, there’s a big bug on the ceiling. Step on it and leave it alone.

SPECS AND SOME FOLKS THAT HIDE BEHIND THEM By A. SPECTATOR

For some indescribable reason, personally I like to place it on overstudy, but my theory doesn’t seem to meet with the approval and sanction of public opinion, and for this reason it cannot be pushed to the utmost of its possibilities as I should like, fate deemed it fit to bless me with the need of glasses. I thought the matter over pro and con and came to the conclusion that this would forward my theory, so I responded to the suggestion. Having decided who was to have the privilege of draping my face, I went to him feeling confident that he would agree with me that I needed glasses. Seldom does he go against such inclinations, even if he has to go to the extent of perching a small clip of framed windowpane on one’s nose. It was my first offense, but he treated me just like one of his old stand-bys. The one part I didn’t mind was when that nice lady put those drops in my eyes. She could have kept on doing that forever. For a while, I thought that was all there was to it. I later found out that that was only the preliminaries for the beginning. It reminded me of what my kid brother said about school—the only part he liked about it was recess. This was my recess. Work was to begin in a few minutes. Then the man came and took me into all the little rooms, one by one, and I told him everything he asked me. I watched the little red dot move, etc. After he had done everything he could think of doing, he wrote down my name and address. While in a state of partial blindness, due to the drops administered at the beginning, he asked me to select the frames I preferred. Presuming that weak eyes needed exercise, I picked out rather heavy, large ones. He called me back to put on some dark glasses. I could picture a hundred sympathetic eyes shedding their blessing and best wishes on me as I crossed the main street with those things on. But I saw no escape. After a few days, however, the regular windshields came and I put aside those tinted ornaments. After being brought into contact with specs, I began to take note of them and some folks behind them. 

Specs are undoubtedly worn for different reasons. First, we see a golf stick, at the end of which a very elaborate outing suit of the latest tweed, a soft hat which has carefully been given an indifferent, coquettish twist. The coat fits well and it is evident that no turns should be taken in his violent exercise that might perchance take away its crease. His pants resemble, in length, the skirt of his fair companion. His stockings and shoes blend tastefully with the shading of his suit. To complete this outfit, there is attached to the lapel a narrow black ribbon, at the end of which a pair of beautifully framed specs can be leashed. It can readily be observed from his movements that much time has been spent in perfecting the art of when and how these should be removed and replaced—in a manner that all good golfers do. In this respect, he should be able to make the ninth in 46. All considered, he is a good background for a windshield display. 

I saw a pair of specs at a hotel supper some time ago which attracted me to the possessor, clinched the suspicion that the bearer had them as an assurance against the dread which seems to be prevalent among both human beings and those who claim they descended from monkeys, the fear that they are missing something. Some kind relative, perhaps, said she could see a great deal more since she had gotten her glasses, and that our friend really did not know how much she had been missing. Fired by this startling fact, our friend bedecked herself and used them accordingly. Hers were like those that are mounted on stilts, which are to be taken down to see and put up for emphasis. 

These and others might one see with a little observation. This isn’t any camouflaged advertising or padded propaganda, but you better not smile—you may need them, too.

The officers and governors of the Men's Club held their regular meeting last Monday. A feed is planned, to be held at Brady. The hotel question will again be brought up. Next week the home of Mrs. Sorrells—The Woman's Auxiliary met at the church last Thursday afternoon with Mrs. R. H. Henderson in charge of the program. In addition to the study of Africa, the new officers for the ensuing term were installed by Doctor Richards. The subject for the May meeting will be a Mexican Fiesta.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

Prof.—Are you sure this story is absolutely original, Mr. Gallaway?
Gallaway—Well—you may find some of the words in the dictionary.

“I'm crazy over animals!” He heard the flapper squeal. So he took her to the library to see the college seal.

It is rumored that Gettys Guille will turn his attention from the class in accounting to the new hobby of radio. We surmise that he will find static worse than statistics.

ENGRAVED VISITING CARDS
COOPER—TAYLOR
WEST
Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

and give your stomach a lift. Provides “the bit of Sweet” in beneficial form. Helps to cleanse the teeth and keep them healthy.

PRESCRIPTIONS
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
PIANOS
CHARLOTTE