—— On Your Way Through DIXIE DOPE. The past week witnessed a lull in basketball circles as a necessary preparation
for the climax of the season that comes with the S. I. A. A.-S. I. C. Tournament in Atlanta this
week. By the time The Davidsonian comes from press, light will have been thrown on who's who in cage circles,
but on the basis of pre-tournament records several teams can be counted on to land near the top. The Atlanta
Journal is backing Georgia Tech, Vanderbilt, Georgia, and Mississippi A. & M. to show the way for the other clubs.
Maybe they are right, but Chattanooga, North Carolina, Alabama, and Tennessee look as good, if not better. Chattanooga has lost
only two games to date—Vandy and Wabash, and have beaten Tennessee, who had a record of twelve victories in a
row.

This University of Tennessee crew have victories over Kentucky, Georgia, Center, and Georgetown, and look good for a round or
two at least. Vandy completes the trio of great Tennessee teams. They have cleaned up everything in sight. With Chattanooga,
Vandy, and the University of Tennessee in the tournament, it looks like that State has about the best chance to
carry off the title. North Carolina, last year’s Southern champions and already South Atlantic champions for this season, will enter
the only undefeated team in the tournament. Their first opponent, Mississippi, ought not to offer any serious opposition. North Carolina
nailed down the State championship when she captured two games from N. C. State. The first meeting resulted (Continued on
page 3)

Central Cafeteria, “On the Square” Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” BASEBALL SHOES GLOVES MITTS BATS We sell the Spalding Harry C. Lee Wright & Ditson RACKETS
Also the Dayton Steel Racket We Restring Rackets Our Davidson Agency is THE COMMISSARY Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co
A. L. FAUL, Mgr. Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BASKETBALL We'll have a great season—next year. Here's to J. G. Frazier—a wonderful player and a good sport. He must
have been born with a basketball in his hands. Just maybe Pat Crawford didn’t strew his nastiness down in his
home State. Forty points in two games! Whew! he must have used a machine gun. Just having taken out a
life insurance policy and needing the shekels, we bravely offer this as our all-State basketball team for 1923:

FIRST TEAM Forward—Simpson (Trinity). Forward—J. G. Frazier (Guilford). Center—Carmichael (Carolina). Guard—Crawford (Davidson). Guard—McDonald (Carolina).

SECOND TEAM Forward—Green (Carolina). Forward—Stringfield (Wake Forest). Center—Mauze (Davidson). Guard—Mahler (Carolina). Guard—Crute (Trinity).

Pat Crawford, the best basketball player at Davidson since the days of Dutch Hengeveld, will play his last court game
Saturday night. With the exception of the Charlotte “Y” game, which he missed on account of an operation, Pat has
played every second of every game for the last two years. Here’s hoping he winds up his basketball career in
a blaze of glory. “Top ’em in their teeth,” Pat.

“Girls Will Start Wearing Corsets Again”—Headline. Gosh, Mathilda, you don’t know how much that helps. It’ll make more room in
the street cars. Giddap, Jehoshaphat!

And it came to pass that Ted Jones was born in 1899. Yes, but “it’s too late now” for anything
to be done about it. Sixteen starts with nine victories—that’s Davidson. Fourteen starts without a wrong detour—that’s Carolina. Twenty-one starts
without a blow-out—that’s a—lie. It is rumored that everyone will get an absence from church. It’s an ill wind that
blows nobody good. At last we can walk from Georgia to Rumple without dodging a bag of water at every
step. Shades of Chink Wilkinson, Doggett, etc.! The old third floor Watts gang is gone forever! Do you remember way
back when—Dan McGeachy used to stand in the north wing of Chambers and yell: “L-i-g-h-t-s—i-n—C-h-a-m-b-e-r-s.” Them days is gone forever.

DOCTOR CLARK TO LEAD LIFE WORK CONFERENCE The speaker for the Life Work Conference this spring will be Dr. Nelson
Clark, of Columbia Theological Seminary. The conference will extend from the 14th through the 17th of March and in addition
to the regular evening services Doctor Clark will conduct the chapel exercises each morning. Doctor Clark is one of the
leading ministers in the Southern church, he is deeply interested in young men and has always kept in close touch
with them. His messages will be of vital interest to everyone. The point that he will stress in his talks
is Christian service. The purpose of this conference is not to lead men into the ministry but to help them
to decide what their life work shall be and how to make it count for the most for Christ. It
is also the hope of the Y. M. C. A. that at this time the men among us who have
not yet become members of the church may be led to take this step. Doctor Clark will be available at
all times for those who wish to discuss with him any problem or problems which may be confronting them.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME No. 9—Henry McFadden Spann, Ex-’20 Football Baseball Henry McFadden Spann, of Sumter, S.
C., will always be remembered in Davidson football annals because of the part he played in the wonder season of
1917. The year before with Keesler and Lawson alternating at quarter, Henry did not have a chance to break into
the line-up but with their departure Spann stepped into their vacant shoes and called signals for the Wildcats during the
greatest season of their history. Henry showed his ability from the first of the season and his wonderful aerial wizardry
led Coach Fetzer’s machine to a decisive 21-7 victory over Auburn. In commenting on his work in that game, the
greatest dope upset of the season, The Atlanta Journal says: “If Spann had had a gun his aerial drives could
not have been more accurate. His tackling also deserves mention.” The Spann to King threat was the surest scoring play
the Red and Black eleven used. Time after time Spann would hurl the pigskin down the field into the waiting
arms of King, who would race across the last white line for a touchdown. It was this combination which carried
the ball across the Golden Tornado’s goal line for the only touchdown of the season.

The following year the football season was cut owing to the S. A. T. C., but it was still Henry
Spann who led the Wildcats to a victory over their ancient rivals Carolina. In 1919 Spann was the man about
whom Coach Crayton built his offense and as captain of the team he did wonders. After a mediocre season the
Wildcats woke up in the Thanksgiving contest and under his generalship gained a sweeping 41-14 decision over Furman. For the
last time Henry led the fighting Red team to victory on the gridiron. Spann played centerfield on the baseball nine
and in his senior year in addition to being captain of the football team and president of the athletic association
he was elected captain of the baseball team. He left college, however, before the season opened andreturned to his home
in Sumter where he has taken over his father’s business.

D: WRESTLERS LOSE TO TRINITY AND CAROLINA

The old jinx is still on the job. The Davidson grapplers returned Friday from an invasion of Trinity and Carolina
with the praise of good fighting, but not of victory trailing them. Trinity’s better-coached team defeated the Davidson matmen 28
to 3, but not without exerting themselves, for Davidson’s men fought stubbornly and almost through the nine-minute period in several
matches. At Carolina, Davidson started off in the lead, winning the first two matches on time but Carolina came in
strong on the middleweights and overcame the lead, piling up a score that was not affected by Lindamood’s time victory
over Poindexter in the unlimited weight. The final score was Carolina 16, Davidson 9.

At Trinity, Selser of Davidson started Hardaway, of Trinity, in the opening match, both men working defensive play. When Selser
missed his try to throw, the men went to the mat on a dog fall, but Hardaway worked to advantage
and pinned Selser about forty seconds before time. Trinity 5, Davidson 0.

Cromartie, for Davidson, then wrestled Daniel of Trinity in the 129-pound class for the full nine-minute period. At the start,
Cromartie threw Daniel twice, but was unable to pin his shoulders. Daniel broke Cromartie’s holds and managed to stay on
top of Cromartie for time, winning by eight seconds. Trinity 8, Davidson.

Cochran started strong for Davidson against May of Trinity, in the 139-pound class, but May played strong defensive and stepped
in to pin Cochran in short time. Trinity 13, Davidson 0.

Kimsey started for Davidson against McClellan, of Trinity, in the 149-pound class, with the high hope of breaking Trinity's winning
streak. Kimsey played a conservative defense, taking advantage of McClellan’s attempts to throw and tied McClellan on points in the
first period. In the three-minute periods, Kimsey was able to stay on McClellan but could not be pinned, winning on
long time. This was Davidson’s only score—all credit to Pat, Davidson’s fighting Irishman, for his excellent work. Trinity 13, Davidson
3.

Patterson, of Davidson, entered against Midgett, Trinity’s wonder wrestler, in the 162-pound class. Patterson made it merry for Midgett at
the start but Midgett’s better knowledge of the art gave him the advantage and Patterson was pinned after about four
minutes of wrestling. Trinity 18, Davidson 3.

White, of Davidson, lost to Mattheson, of Trinity, after about five minutes of good wrestling on the part of both.
Mattheson was at the limit of the 179-pound class weight and outweighed White by about eleven pounds. Mattheson’s better knowledge
of the art enabled him to pin White for another five points. Trinity 23, Davidson 3.

Midgett, after resting through the 179-pound match, entered again for Trinity against Lindamood, Davidson’s heavyweight. Lindamood showed style at the
start, but gave way to excitement and bewilderment and was pinned after three and one-half minutes of wrestling. Final score:
Trinity 28, Davidson 3.

At Carolina, Selser, of Davidson, started against Schwartz, of Carolina, in the 119-pound class. Selser won on time after fifteen
minutes of wrestling. On account of small mats, Selser lost his advantage several times on account of going off the
mat. Davidson 3, Carolina 0.

In the 129-pound class, Cromartie, Davidson's captain, wrestled Hagan, of Carolina, to a decision on time in the first nine-minute
period. Cromartie outclassed Hagan at all times, but was not able to pin him on account of their going off
the mats. Davidson 6, Carolina 0.

Cochran, for Davidson, in the 139-pound class, wrestled Vick, of Carolina, from the start in the next match and had
about two minutes time on him until the last few seconds of the bout. Here in an effort to pin
Vick with a body scissors and head lock, Vick turned him and rolled into a crab hold, pinning Cochran’s shoulders
for Carolina’s first score. Davidson 6, Carolina 5.

Kimsey, of Davidson, and Mattheson, of Carolina, wrestled to a tie in the first nine-minute period of the next match—149-pound
class. Mattheson won over Kimsey in the three-minute period, with a ten-second time advantage. Davidson 6, Carolina 8.

In the 162-pound class, Patterson, of Davidson, met Waters, one of Carolina’s best men. After six minutes, thirty seconds of
hard wrestling, Waters was able to pin Patterson with a head chancery and half Nelson. Davidson 6, Carolina 13.

Davidson entered White against Burke, of Carolina, in the 179-pound class. No advantage was shown by either in the first
nine-minute period, but Burke, by a strong comeback, threw White after one minute, twenty seconds of the first three-minute period.
Burke held this advantage for the rest of the extra periods and won on points. Davidson 6, Carolina 16.

The unlimited class furnished the best bout of the evening when Lindamood, Davidson’s heavyweight, met Poindexter, the Carolina captain. Lindamood
showed his superiority throughout the bout, worrying Poindexter considerably, but holding every advantage. After nine minutes of wrestling, Lindamood won
on time. Final score: Davidson 9, Carolina 16.

Davidson handled Trinity about as well as she has been handled this year, and held Carolina to the closest score,
outside of her defeat by Trinity. Carolina has lost to Trinity 23 to 8, and Guilford has lost to Trinity
30 to 3 and to Carolina 35 to 0. Davidson’s showing was better than the scores indicate. It would seem
that Davidson held the advantage in each bout until the Red and Black matman was pinned or time called. Captain
Cromartie’s grapplers meet South Carolina at Davidson on Friday, March 2, and meet V. M. I. at Lexington, March 9.
Profiting by what was learned in the school of experience, Davidson’s matmen should be able to give a creditable account
of themselves in the remaining meets.

TD.

QUEENS CHORAL CLUB TO PRESENT PLAY HERE

On March 12, Davidson is to hear another product of Queens College talent. Last spring the Queens Choral Club brought
their play to Davidson and presented it, and this time their entertainment will be an operetta. The cast of the
play includes forty “queens,” and besides the music, many laughs are interwoven throughout the play. No effort has been spared
to make the presentation perfect in every way and the costumes are elaborate. The staff of the Queens annual is
fostering the playlet and all profits will go to make a better edition this year.

Athletes Make Good As Salesmen

BECAUSE—
They have the natural
They know how to think and act quickly.
They understand what it is to “fight through.”

Some of this Company's most successful representatives learned their first lessons on the gridiron and diamond. Our Agents’ Training School
Did the Rest.

LIBERAL CONTRACTS

SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST COMPANY
Greensboro, N. C.
“The Multiple Line Company”
Capital $1,000,000.00
CHOICE TERRITORY
A. W. McAlister, President
H. B. Gunter, Agency Mgr.
