SESEEEEEEUESESSEESEEIEESSERESEREZESEIIEIESUERISEUEEETEUESESEIISSESIEEEEEEEEIEGE | PICTURES 20c & 35c VAUDEVILLE 30-9 Night 7 ALHAMBRA “Always the Best for Less” 10c & 25c 30
COMEDY e3 MUSICAL ee NFLUENZA As a preventive melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply a little up nostrils
before mingling with crowds. VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly SHAVE AND HAIRCUT Bay Rum Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923 By BILL HESTON Have you ever Thought that you rated A letter
And then when The mail was delivered You didn’t get one And then you got sore And wrote a mean
one Saying you were through with her Forever and that she could go hang And then in the afternoon you
Got a sweet ten-page one from her? So--have I. —Log. AN EXHORTATION If you can’t be a pine on the
top of the hill, Be a scrub in the valley—but be The best little scrub at the side of the
rill; Be a bush if you can’t be a tree. If you can’t be a bush, be a bit of
the grass Some highway to happier make, If you can’t be a muskie, then just be a bass— But the
liveliest bass in the lake. We can’t all be captains, we’ve got to be crew, There’s something for all of
us here; There’s big work to do and there’s lesser to do, And the task we must do is the
near. If you can’t be a highway, then just be a trail, If you can’t be the sun, be a
star; It isn’t by size that you win or you fail— Be the best of whatever you are. Stud Trawick
met up with the most difficult problem of his life at the recent Soph banquet in trying to figure out
which end of his cigar to light. He finally solved the difficulty by the use of permutations and combinations. During
the course of the evening he was overcome several times by the dense clouds of smoke and had to be
resuscitated by his classmates. Sheik Haroun Al-Rasched Russel has perfected a set of signals for admittance to his harem in
the parlor of West. Three taps on the door after 9 p.m. is the only thing that will open it
except a feminine voice. CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY PHONE 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager THE RALEIGH 221 West Trade Street Charlotte's Best
Cafe ACT THE TWELFTH Mac—Whoopee, son, listen to this— The days are getting longer, The night’s much shorter. Have I
that tired feeling? Well, sorter. The balm in the air is Spring’s gentle reminder. Do I want to go fishing?
Well, kinder. As I shave in the bathroom And slap on the lather, Do robin songs thrill me? Well, rather.
Bill—Well, that’s rather better than usual. Speaking of the balmy spring reminds me. It’s about time to shed coats and
white shirts are nothing but the stuff this season. Mac—Shoot? Bill—Gonna! Mellon’s says white shirts made of handkerchief cloth are
the ideal summer weight and only $2.50. White oxfords tax you $2.50 and $3.00 and English Broadcloths will separate you
from $3.50 on up to $6.00. Mac—Who’d you say told you all that? Bill—Mellon’s, old dear, Mellon’s. Mac—I’ll have to
look into it.—(Adv.) (To be continued later.) ONLY FORGIVE If you play with the hearts of women, Be they old
or merely maids, Be sure, my son, you'll regret it As surely as spades are spades. You’ve laughed and joked
with the other boys, Never considering the pain you’ve caused, At the way you’ve strung ’em along, Nor thinking the
wrong you’ve done. But wait, some day you'll really love, And then you'll begin to pay, For the hearts you’ve
broken will give you no rest In your dreams, your work, or your play. For the day you find yourself
in love With a girl so wondrous fair, You'll think of the hearts you’ve trifled with, And you'll begin to
doubt she’s square. You’ll see their faces as you talked to them, You’ll remember the look in their eyes, As
you spoke of love and other things, God—but you'll hate those lies. Some day it will all come back to
you, And the question you'll ask will be, “I've fooled and played with a dozen girls, Do you suppose she’s
playing with me?” When you kiss the lips of the girl you love, As you leave her at the door,
You'll wonder in spite of all you can do, If she’s been kissed that way before. For the things she
doesIn innocence will fill your heart with doubt,
And the moments you spend away from her,
Will tear your heartstrings out.
You’ll never think she’s doing right,
Though she does and tries her best,
You'll be jealous of every man you see
And think she’s like the rest.
For you’ll think of the many girls you've kissed,
And you'll reason that this is true—
The things I do to the other man’s girl
The other man to my girl can do.
—Sandspur.

A young man wrote to a large razor concern for a razor. The letter read:
“Dear Sirs:
“I am enclosing 50 cents for one of your razors, as advertised.
“Yours very truly,
“JOHN JONES.”
P. S.—I forgot to enclose the 50 cents, but, no doubt, a firm of your high standing will send the
razor on, anyhow.

The firm replied as follows:
“Dear Sir:
“We received your valued order for a razor and we wish to thank you for the same. We trust it
will give entire satisfaction.
“Yours very truly,
P. S.—We forgot to enclose the razor, but, no doubt, a man with your cheek will not need one.”—Ex.

An American officer was drilling a Russian regiment. He sneezed and three men answered, “Here.”—Ex.

Two gentlemen were uncertainly flivvering their way home from a party.
“Bill,” said Henry, “I want you to be very careful. First thing you know you'll have us in a ditch.”
“Me?” said Bill in astonishment, “Why I thought you were driving.”
—Saffodontia.

MacConnell, Dr. Frazer Hood and Mr. NATIONAL MILITARY SOCIETY TO INSTALL LOCAL CHAPTER (Continued From Page 1)
Washington (Seattle), Cornell University and Purdue University. It is confined almost exclusively to institutions that are not essentially military. The
Grenadiers feel that they have brought to Davidson an organization that will mean much to the college. Its standards and
principles are of the highest. It has a wider distribution than any other honorary organization on the campus with the
exception of Phi Beta Kappa. The expansion policy of Scabbard and Blade is conservative and companies are placed only in
the larger universities and the better-known colleges. During the present year charters have been granted to local organizations at Emory
University (Georgia), Rutgers College (New Jersey) and Davidson College (North Carolina).

The undergraduate members of The Grenadiers, the local organization which petitioned Scabbard and Blade, are: Wallace H. Moore (Japan), LeRoy
P. Burney (North Carolina), Hayes B. McCallum (Florida), W. J. Cooper (South Carolina), Guy E. Weeks (Florida), W. S. Buchanan
(Japan), Dunbar H. Ogden (Alabama) and John M. Adams (North Carolina). Capt. T. G. Hearn is an associate member of
the Club and Dr. J. W. F. L. Jackson are associate members. Capt. L. A. Wetherby is an alumnus of
Scabbard and Blade from the University of Washington.

The purpose of Scabbard and Blade is primarily to raise the standard of military training in American colleges and universities,
to unite in closer relationship their military departments, to encourage and foster the essential qualities of good and efficient officers
and to promote intimacy and good fellowship among the cadet officers. Further, the Society stands for a virile, progressive Americanism
and through its alumni endeavors to stimulate interest in a sane degree of military preparedness for the Country. The qualifications
for membership are not based on display of military efficiency alone, but qualities of character and manhood are given equal
importance, it being considered that the man who aspires to a commission must possess, together with a knowledge of military
tactics, all the attributes of a gentleman before he can become a successful officer.

The installation of the Davidson Company will be made by Lieut.-Col. Robert G. Tolman, of the University of Illinois, one
of the national officers of the Society. Colonel Tolman will very probably review the Cadet Corps in the morning. The
installation will close with a banquet in Charlotte that night.

Bummed—How many Camels do you kill a day?
Bummer—Any given number.

ENGRAVED VISITING CARDS COOPER—PARLOR WEST

Merchants and Farmers National CHARLOTTE, N. C

After Every Meal with a bit of sweet in the form of WRIGLEY’S. It satisfies the sweet tooth and aids
digestion. Pleasure and benefit combined.

Candies, Stationery and
Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
CHARLOTTE.
