THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923

Armand London Currie of Fayetteville, N. C., now engaged in whipping the Wildcat nine into shape for its opening games with Oak Ridge next Friday and Saturday, is a man who is known by every Davidson man from the class of ’18 through the class of '26. Buck entered Davidson in the fall of ’17 and the next spring pitched his way to a monogram to which three stars were later added. For four years Buck served as a moundsman and is now working on material to fill the place out of which he stepped two seasons ago. During his college days Buck was an all-round man. He showed his ability along literary lines by winning the Fresh-Soph Declaimer’s Medal, along athletic lines by his work on the diamond and his popularity and ability as a leader by his service as President of the Student Body. After graduation, Buck pitched during the summer and in the fall returned to Davidson to take up his work as principal of the Davidson High School. When Dwight Chalmers resigned as “Y” secretary, Buck was secured and no better selection could have been made for the position. Pleasant and genial, Buck is a friend to everyone, admired and respected wherever he goes. When the question of a baseball coach came up this spring, Buck was the man to fill the position and in his dual capacity of “Y” secretary and baseball coach, he is working with the best interests of Davidson always at heart.

THE Central Cafeteria “On the Square” 
Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT” 
BASEBALL SHOES GLOVES MITTS BATS 
We sell the Spalding Harry C. Lee Wright & Ditson RACKETS 
Also the Dayton Steel Racket 
We Restring Rackets 
THE COMMISSARY Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 
Our Davidson Agency is “all ATHLETICS”

After several weeks of practice it looks as though our chances for a successful team on the diamond depend on the pitching staff. The players look weak at the bat and show a special tendency to do a Casey against curve ball twirling. But if Hunter, Boushee, Sorrells and a couple of new men come through, a good season will result. The wielders of the cat-gut are out in full force and hope to repeat their victories of last year. With Hugh Bradley, state singles champion and a member of the champion doubles team, as a nucleus, a dangerous team is being formed. Several tennis matches with other colleges will be held on the hill and everyone will have a chance to see the Wildcat knights of the clay court in action. Monk Younger will certainly have plenty of material out of which to build a basketball team next season. Warhoss Mauze has announced his intention of returning for another season on the pine boards and this means that there will be eight letter men fighting for places on the team. That will be a merry scrap. And don’t forget this year’s scrubs. To get a smooth working infield that is dependable both at bat and in the field seems to be Coach Currie’s greatest task. In spite of the fact that it would move an all-state man out of his position, we would like to see ’em line up for the first game with Covington at third, McKay at short, Crawford at second and Boushee on first. The news that we are to have three full-time coaches for next year was certainly a sweet morsel for followers of Davidson athletics. It shows that the authorities have at last recognized a long-felt need and that Monk Younger is already making plans for next season. We play Carolina in Gastonia Easter Monday and a large number of students will be on hand to see the tussle. The Wildcats have several old scores to settle up and will have their claws showing. The last time we frocked the Tar Heels in baseball was in 1921, when Pat Crawford's home run with two on base put a 9 to 5 victory in the Wildcats’ bat bags. Time to repeat.

MISSIONARY SOCIETY MEETS. 
The Methodist Missionary Society met at the home of Mr. Carl Tompson last week. The Fairview Society entertained the Davidson Society. Mrs. Kelly presided and was the principal speaker of the evening. Different members read short sketches on the home and foreign missions.

Baseball Schedule for 1923 
March 30—Oak Ridge at Davidson. 
March 31—Oak Ridge at Davidson. 
April 2—Carolina at Gastonia, N. C. 
April 3—Furman at Davidson. 
April 7—Trinity at Davidson. 
April 9—N. C. State at Davidson. 
April 14—Wake Forest at Davidson. 
April 17—Wofford at Davidson. 
April 18—Wofford at Davidson. 
April 21—Elon at Davidson. 
April 23—V. P. I. at Davidson. 
April 25—Wofford at Spartanburg, S. C. 
April 26—Clemson at Clemson, S. C. 
April 27—Furman at Greenville, S. C. 
May 1—N. C. State at Raleigh, N. C. 
May 2—Trinity at Durham, N. C. 
May 3—Elon at Elon, N.C. 
May 8—Virginia at Charlottesville, Va. 
May 9—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va. 
May 10—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va. 
May 12—Guilford at Davidson.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME 
One of the greatest athletes who ever wore the Red and Black is Dewitt Klutz of Chester, South Carolina. Entering Davidson in the fall of 1907, Klutz won a berth at end on one of the greatest teams the Presbyterians have ever turned out, and in the spring proved his versatility by making the baseball and track teams. The next year Rabbit was a fixture at end and starred in the first grid contest between Wake Forest and Davidson, which the Wildcats tucked away, 31-4. Carolina was held to a scoreless tie, and Clemson went down once more before the Red and Black. Rabbit was elected captain of the 1909 team, but early in the season broke his leg and was unable to play during the remainder of the season. Five feet eleven inches tall and weighing 164 pounds, Klutz had an ideal build for an end. On the track he was a 10-second man and on the gridiron was given many an opportunity to show his speed, being selected all-Southern end. DeWitt was re-elected captain of the grid team in 1910, and led the Wildcats to their first victory.

A Pair of Shoes 
On your way through the shoes you are now wearing, just notice this: If they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the instep and the toes—they will not look old for a long time. If they do not fit well there, they will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix Shoes next time. See how well they fit and how long they last. 
J. M. HENDRIX & CO. 
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES” 
GREENSBORO, N. C.Over Carolina, while it was Richardson who carried the ball over for the Wildcats, Klutz starred both on offense and defense. In the last game of his career, the Wildcats again triumphed over Wake Forest, 32-0. Besides playing football for four years, Rabbit starred in baseball and track and was captain of the nine his last year. Playing in the outer gardens, he was a sure fielder and heavy hitter, always a dangerous man in a pinch. He was also President of the Athletic Association and of the D Club.

After finishing at Davidson, he studied medicine and is now a doctor at Washington, North Carolina. Always a great athlete and good fellow, Rabbit has left a name for himself at Davidson which will not soon be forgotten.

WRESTLING TEAM WILL BE AWARDED MONOGRAM

This year’s wrestling season can well be considered one of accomplishment for Davidson, regardless of the fact that final scores did not proclaim Davidson’s supremacy over any of the opponents faced. The not uncreditable record made by Davidson’s matmen this year has warranted the sport being sponsored by the Athletic Association, and plans are underway to improve this sport along with the general uplifting of athletics here next year.

At a meeting of the Executive Council, plans for wrestling were discussed, and the committee voted to foster the activity and to encourage it in every possible way. To this end, it was voted that letters be awarded to the wrestling team, and a committee was appointed to decide what requirements be set for the letter. The possibility of having a coach was discussed. It was learned that one of the army officers who will be stationed at Davidson next year is an experienced wrestler, and it is thought that the matter of coaching will be well taken care of. Everything points to a successful year for Davidson in wrestling.

To review the past season is to run over three meets, all held off the Hill, which in themselves were enough to make the season a success. There are those points about the record, however, that keep it from being disgraceful. There is Kimzey’s noble stand at Trinity; Captain Cromartie’s record of not yet having had a fall chalked up against him, and Lindamood’s even break on matches to uphold the account considerably. The fact that the score in wrestling does not show how close the matches were tells the tale of the matches lost. The majority of the matches lost by Davidson were lost after they had been wrestled to a draw in the initial nine-minute period. The team showed up well in the Carolina and V. M. I. meets and received much commendation for the good work done at these places.

EXCEEDINGLY BRIGHT PROSPECTS IN TENNIS

Under the able managership of Harry Price, another splendid tennis schedule has been arranged for the coming season. Carolina and Trinity have the Wildcats on their schedule for the last of April, while matches with Wake Forest and State are pending. Returning from this invasion of the old North State, the Wildcat racqueteers will have very little rest before they will be called on to show their wares at the Olympics, which are to be held in Durham again May 4th and 5th. Last year Davidson came away from the State meet with all sorts of cups and honors tagging along with them. The State championship was won in both the singles and doubles. This year the prospects are bright indeed. Captain Hugh Bradley is determined to go another third of the way toward keeping for his own the beautiful silver cup which he now holds as State collegiate champion. In the doubles, Hugh and Harry ought to be invincible. One more big reason why our prospects this year are so bright is due to the fact that we have a real coach in the person of J. B. Whitener. Joe knows the game from start to finish. He is a Trinity alumnus and is guilty of knocking Hugh Bradley out of the singles championship in 1921. Besides having a coach this year, the tennis aspirants will have the opportunity of seeing in action on the screen some Saturday night world-famous champs, such as (Continued on Page 8).

STRONG TEAMS WILL CONTEST CLASS SERIES

With the first game of the series only a week off, the class football teams are rapidly taking shape. Three of the classes—Junior, Sophomore, and Freshman—are to have teams this year, and by the number of football men out for the various other sports, things should be lively on Sprunt field during Junior Speaking. The Seniors, due to the lack of material and the number of football men out for various other sports, will not be able to place a team in the field, but in spite of this fact, the other teams should put up some mighty classy scraps.

There will be plenty of equipment this year, and the teams should not be hindered by any such lack as has interfered with the class series of former years. Those who witnessed last year’s games will remember one doughty warrior of ’23 who removed his shoes when they hurt and played in his stocking feet. This year, with plenty of headgear, pads, jerseys, and pants, the workouts should show some real football.

The Junior team, under the able tutelage of Story, Brown, and Forde, is working hard for places, and competition should be keen. The Sophomore outfit looks good and is picked by a large percentage of the students to make good as a salesman because they have natural training. They know how to think and act quickly. They understand what it is to “fight through.”