Merry Christmas

THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C, DECEMBER 20, 1923 Happy New Year No. 4

Charlotte Pastor Makes Stirring Address at “Y”

Rev. W. B. McIlwaine Delivers Thoughtful Address at Vesper Service

ABUNDANT LIFE IS THEME

Thought-Inspiring Address Heard by Large Audience

“I am come that they might have life, and have it more abundantly,” was the text upon which Rev. W. B. McIlwaine, of Charlotte, based his remarks in speaking before the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening. During his talk the speaker stressed the latter part of his text, “More abundantly.” He began by giving two beautiful illustrations which brought out the difference between life and more abundant life.

“In the Pennsylvania mountains is a small stream which supplies the water supply for a nearby town. But when the water was low, the stream became only a thread, and the town was threatened with a water famine. They had some water, but not enough, and could consume the water only at stated intervals during the day. Water not abundant.

“A little higher in the mountains was another stream which was a continual fountain, which bubbled up in all kinds of weather. The town which this stream watered was named Beaufont, in honor of the beautiful continual fountain.” (Continued on page 4)

Piedmont Lyceum Course

Mr. and Mrs. Galgano Perform on Harp and Steel Guitar—Mrs. Galgano’s Readings Please Audience

The second entertainment of the Piedmont Lyceum Course was presented in Shearer Hall on Friday night, December 14th, when Mr. and Mrs. Galgano gave a musical program, Mr. Galgano playing on the harp and Mrs. Galgano on the steel guitar. The Galganos were heard by students and townspeople in an audience which although it was small because of an unavoidable conflict with the Davidson-Washington and Lee debate, was, nevertheless, an appreciative and enthusiastic one.

The Galganos began their program with two duets on the harp and steel guitar. The first of these was the “Barcarole” from Tales of Hoffman, and O Sole Mio followed. The blending of these two instruments as played by Mr. and Mrs. Galgano produced a most pleasing musical effect. A Hawaiian interpretation of the Rosary was given next by Mrs. Galgano on the steel guitar. As an encore, Schumann's Traumerie was played.

Mr. Galgano, in a series of harp solos which followed, displayed a remarkable mastery of his instrument and perfect technique. The first three of the solos were Harp Rhapsody, La Paloma and Mother Machree. In response to the enthusiastic hand-clapping of the audience, Mr. Galgano played two pieces as encores, one of which was a foot-provoking jig called Whistling Rufus. This part of the program was followed by several entertaining readings given by Mrs. Galgano, which were appreciated by the audience. Mr. Galgano continued his program on the harp with the following pieces: Grand Concert Waltz, Annie Laurie, Mocking Bird, Happy Hours in Coon-Town, Dixie and Turkey in the Straw. The pleasing and varied program of the evening was concluded with two duets, Love’s Old Sweet Song and Southern Melodies arranged by Foster.

December 15th, FOOTBALL D Men

E. S. Faison, Captain D
W. A. Shepherd D
G. McDavid D
N. D. Shields D
W. R. McConnell D
W. A. Gantt D
W. S. McAlister D
J. C. Grell D
S. W. Summers D
G. B. Currie D
H. H. Lindamood D
R. G. Ross D
W. M. Black D
G. G. Covington D
S. S. Baker D
T. W. Wilson D
W. Z. Bradford, Manager D

Over Fifty Men Pledged On Fraternity Bid Day

Six National and Two Local Fraternities Pledge Prominent Members of Freshman Class

Bid Day, ruling lately changed by faculty from after mid-year exams to before, has seen a total of over fifty Freshmen bid in by the six national and two local fraternities at Davidson. Feeds were held by most of the fraternities during the week before Bid Day. The men who have been pledged will not be initiated until after the mid-year exams.

Names of those who have been pledged by the fraternities are as follows:

Pi Kappa Alpha—J. M. White, L. M. Ham, R. H. Buckner.
Kappa Sigma—V. Williamson, J. D. Malloy, J. A. Simpson, F. L. Wyche. (Continued on page 5)

Achievement Along Many Lines Marks Past Year

Capacity of College Increased by Building of New Watts—Campus Beautification Under Way

NEW ATHLETIC FIELD

Chambers Campaign Nears Goal of Six Hundred Thousand

The year 1923 has been a red-letter year in Davidson history. The new athletic field and new Watts hall are the two greatest steps taken during the past year along building lines. The $600,000 campaign for the rebuilding of Chambers has been successful in every way and the quota is practically raised.

Early in the year a seeming misfortune visited the college when the Watts dormitory was completely destroyed by fire. The trustees, however, took immediate action, and now a three-story fire-proof building accommodating 200 students, double the number which the old building housed, stands in its place.

Mr. L. P. Richardson gave the college $30,000 for the building of a new athletic field and stadium. Work on the field began soon after commencement and now in the place of the old gridiron and dirt track there is a field which contains two gridirons, a baseball diamond, and a quarter-mile cinder track. The field has been fenced in and work on the concrete stadium will be begun early in the spring.

The campaign for the rebuilding of Chambers has progressed successfully during the past year. Practically all of the necessary $600,000 has been raised and specifications are being made for the new building, which will cost $400,000. The executive offices will be moved from the library to the new Chambers and the class rooms will be centralized. Laboratories will occupy part of one wing. In the other wing will be a well-equipped auditorium. The need for this has long been felt for neither Shearer (Continued on page 4)

McALISTER ELECTED FOOTBALL MANAGER

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Association, A. W. McAlister, of Greensboro, was elected manager of the 1924 Davidson Football Team.

During his Freshman year Zander played at half but was forced to quit the gridiron on account of health. Last spring he was elected assistant football manager and treasurer of his rising Junior class. J. Milhous and A. M. Martin were the other assistants during the past year. Martin resigned during the year on account of other work and the work was left up to McAlister and Milhous. The work on the field was largely done by the Freshman assistants. Three Freshmen, W. S. Woods, R. H.Mellwaine and M. I. Carroll worked during the whole season and several others came out at times. 

Davidson Team May Enter Tournament in Atlanta
Red and Black Cagers Hold Final Pre-Holiday Practice Saturday — Letter Men Round Into Form

Prospects for a post-season trip to the S.I.A.A. Tournament at Atlanta are bright for the Wildcat basketball squad, which is fast being whipped into fighting form by Coach Younger. The last practice before the holidays was Saturday, and all indications point to a successful season. It is planned to carry the quintette to the Atlanta meet, and at the close of that season, a hard season seems assured. This will be a forward step in Davidson athletics, since the Red and Black banner has never been carried to an S.I.A.A. tournament.

(Continued on page 4)

Davidson Debating Team Wins Annual Debate With Washington and Lee By Three to Two Decision
Hollingsworth and Stith Win Hard-Fought Contest From Masinter and Lowry of Virginia Institution — Immigration Problem Discussed From Every Angle by Speakers — Overflowing Audience Hears Well-Worked-Out Argument

Davidson College won its annual forensic encounter with Washington and Lee University in Shearer Hall, Friday night, December 14th, by the three to two decision of the judges, successfully upholding the negative of the query: Resolved: That the present Immigration Law should be re-enacted. M. C. Smith and A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., brought new honor to Davidson by evening the count with the Virginia institution which last year out-debated the Wildcats. Both men presented able arguments and made a very interesting contest which the close decision warrants. For Washington and Lee, Ralph Masinter and Charles W. Lowry, Jr., held up the worthy record of the Generals and went down to an honorable defeat only by the closest of decisions.

Opening the argument for the affirmative, Masinter reviewed the progress of immigration into the United States and outlined the meaning of the present immigration law, passed in 1921 and to go out of effect in 1924, which states that not more than three percent of the nationals of any country residing in the United States by the 1910 census shall be permitted to enter the United States each year. The two main arguments advanced by Masinter were that the negative could not argue total restriction of immigration without serious fallacy in their reasoning, nor could they argue for an open door policy. So the affirmative contended that some restriction was necessary to the economic, political, and social welfare of the nation, and the theoretical soundness of the present law and its practicable solution of this problem was left to the affirmative to prove.

Stith, speaking first for Davidson, agreed with the affirmative that neither total restriction nor an open door policy was best, but pointed out that the negative would attempt to prove the present law unsatisfactory and to present a better law for solving this vexing problem. The present law is too elastic, he said, allowing too many immigrants of the Balkan type with their lower code of morals and social and political ideals and allowing too few of the Anglo-Saxon and North European types. Then the second speaker on the negative side, A. H. Hollingsworth, outlined the new plan of the negative. It would limit the immigrants to two percent based on the 1890 census, and this would automatically cut down the numbers from the southern European countries and raise the numbers from the Nordic nations.

C. W. Lowry, Jr., continued the arguments of the affirmative with two points. The law is theoretically sound as it co-operates with all the past laws on the subject. Then it has worked to stop the influx of countless numbers of undesirable and unassimilable aliens. It has been, he claimed, fair to the United States and fair to the aliens themselves. It is based upon the principles of equity, justice, and righteousness. The law was thus also claimed to be flexible and selective by the arguments of the affirmative.

Closing the negative side, A. H. Hollingsworth outlined the new plan of the negative. It would limit the immigrants to two percent based on the 1890 census, and this would automatically cut down the numbers from the southern European countries and raise the numbers from the Nordic nations.

(Continued on page 4)

Letters Awarded Twenty Wildcat Grid Warriors
Nineteen Players and Manager Receive D for Work During 1923 Season

JACKSON AWARDS LETTERS
Twelve Linesmen and Seven Backs Receive Letters or Stars

Last Saturday night, at the picture show, Mr. Jackson awarded varsity letters to those who had won them during the 1923 football season. "Thanksgiving Day," said Mr. Jackson, "is the Commencement Day of the football season, but the awarding of the diplomas earned during the season is not made until some later date, usually at some public gathering between Thanksgiving and the Christmas holidays. The Athletic Council has chosen to award them tonight." Then, amid continued applause, Mr. Jackson gave letters to the following men:

The first name read was that of Wildcat captain, L. S. Faison, who completed his fourth year on the varsity team and has consistently played brilliant football. Playing at right end, he has shown spectacular quarters of offensive and defensive ball and has won for himself a position on several All-State teams. Faison played in 30 games and in each of them delivered all that was in him for the field.

(Continued on page 7)

E. J. Erwin Makes List of Best Contemporary Books
English Professor Compiles List of Interesting and Instructive Books By Contemporary Authors

Prof. Edward J. Erwin, instructor in the English department of Davidson, has compiled a list of books that is interesting for two reasons; it embraces novels, essays, plays, poetry, and biography that are representative of the best existing works, and secondly, all books are by living authors today. It is a list that is worthy of careful study and consideration. Students who are planning to remain on the hill during the holidays and all others during the rest of the year would do well to read as many of these books as possible. Following is the list outlined by Professor Erwin:

Books Written by Living Authors
Novels
Joseph Conrad — Lord Jim; Youth
Hugh Walpole — Cathedral
Anatole France — The Crime of Sylvestre Bonnard
Thomas Hardy — Tess of the D'Urbervilles
Rudyard Kipling — Kim
J. M. Barrie — The Little Minister; Sentimental Tommy
Willa Cather — One of Ours
Knut Hamsun — The Growth of the Soil
John Galsworthy — The Forsyte Saga
Sinclair Lewis — Main Street
Mary Johnston — Croatan
Booth Tarkington — Alice Adams
H. G. Wells — The New Machiavelli
Rafael Sabatini — Scaramouche

Plays
Eugene O'Neill — The Emperor Jones; The Hairy Ape; Anna Christie
John Drinkwater — Abraham Lincoln; Robert E. Lee
John Galsworthy — Justice; Loyalties

(Continued on page 4)

MAY YOUR HOLIDAYS BE PLEASANT ONES