THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

ATHLETICS
NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME
No. 13—COSMO LOWRY WALKER—'17
FOOTBALL
BASEBALL

After one year at Clemson, Cosmo Lowry Walker, of Columbia, S. C., entered Davidson and for four years proved himself
an indispensable cog in the little Red and Black machine during the Fetzer regime. Five feet nine inches tall, and
weighing 180 pounds, Walker proved a hard man for anyone to stop, but it was on the defense that he
was feared and known as one of the greatest defensive backs in the South. He was a sure tackler and
rarely missed his man, time after time bringing him down when a failure to get him meant a touchdown for
the opposition.

Walker was also an adept at the art of receiving forward passes and his ability to intercept the enemy’s passes
was uncanny. Above all, he was a hard worker, steady and dependable, who could be counted on for his best
at all times, and to whom there was no such thing as being off form. It was due to his
great defensive work in the 1916 Georgia Tech game that the Golden Tornado was held to a single touchdown and
field goal, one of her lowest scores of the year. Cosmo was captain of the 1915 eleven and during the
season the Red and Black warriors lost only three hard-fought battles. The next spring he played center field on the
baseball team and was a flashy fielder but his stick work was light.

After leaving Davidson, Walker entered the service and as Captain in the Field Artillery saw service in France. After his
discharge, he entered highway work and is now working on the State Highway Commission.

THE Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

“EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT”
BASEBALL SHOES
GLOVES
MITTS
BATS
We sell the Spalding Harry C. Lee Wright & Ditson RACKETS
Also the Dayton Steel Racket
We Restring Rackets

Our Davidson Agency is THE COMMISSARY
Hardware and Goods Co.

Remember we have a date with you on Sprunt Field this afternoon at 2:30 P. M. Baseball Saving Time. Not
since 1920 have the Wildcats been able to set Mr. Holt and his hustling Oak Ridgers down twice in one
season. Since these two teams first met, in 1911, Davidson has won nine games while the fast prep team has
captured four contests. Since the memory of man runneth not to the contrary, they have carried off the state prep
school championship.

This year’s tennis team will be chosen from Bradley, Price, Morris, Frazer, Beall, Staley, Woods, Brown, Trotter, and Murray. During
the next two weeks each of these men will play every other man twice. The arrangement assures everyone a fair
chance and Davidson is sure to have another good season on the courts.

“ALL ROADS LEAD MONDAY—”
The rest will come to you as easily as swiping candy from a baby. All roads lead Monday—thru Charlotte to
Loray Park in Gastonia. Captain Crawford will lead his fighting Wildcats against U. of N. C. Tarbabies and the tar
and hair are sure to fly. The Red and Black will be out to repeat their victory over the Chapel
Hill lads. They need your support. Be there to back them!

Our B. V. D. men are looking better every day. The fine showing made by new men and the improvement
of the veterans have brought forth many exclamations of joy from the followers of the knights of the cinder circuit.
Davis, McConnell, Lindarwood, Selser, Williford, Smith, and several others are turning in first-class times and distances despite the fact that
this is their first year on the squad.

If your girl kicks you this week, don’t shoot yourself! Go out for class football!! The end will come quicker.

The decision of the Executive Committee of the Athletic Association to give wrestlers letters is sure to meet with general
approval. Our grapplers worked hard, and although their season was not a success, they upheld the fighting reputation of Davidson
teams. Captain Weems, one of the R. O. T. C. Officers to be stationed at Davidson next year, was formerly
a star athlete at the West Point School, having been a linesman for four years and the champion of his
weight in wrestling. He should be of valuable assistance to Monk Younger on the gridiron, and during the winter he
will probably take charge of the wrestling and boxing teams.

DO YOU REMEMBER ’WAY BACK WHEN—
“Makes no difference if he is a hound, you gotta quit kicking my dog around” was the latest song hit?

The finest tire value in the land today—and you don’t have to go outside of town to prove it!
Henderson Auto Electric Company
GAS, OILS, BATTERIES, TIRES, ACCESSORIES, EXPERT REPAIRS
Davidson, N. C.

SOPHS DEFEAT FRESH
Saturday afternoon the Sophomore football team wrecked the Freshman chances for the class grid championship, and started their championship drive
by battering their way to a 12-0 victory over the yearling team. Boggs and Ballard each carried the pigskin across
once for the Sophs, and on two other occasions the Sophs hammered their way inside the 10-yard line. At no
time during the game did the Freshmen threaten, never having possession of the ball beyond their 45-yard line.

The Sophs started off with a rush and made three first downs in a row before the Fresh could stop
them but their line held on their own 30-yard mark and the ball went over. The first-year men then made
their only two first downs, one of them coming on a penalty and were forced to punt. Boggs fumbled the
ball but John Ballard recovered on his own 35-yard line. With Green, Boggs, and Ballard carrying the ball, the Sophs
marched down the field 65 yards to a touchdown about the middle of the second quarter.

On Your Way Through A Pair of Shoes
On your way through the shoes you are now wearing, just notice this: If they fit well at just three
spots—the heel, the instep, and the toes—they will not look old for a long time. If they do not fit
well there, they will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix Shoes next time. Notice how
well they fit and how long they last.M. HENDRIX & CO. “THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES” GREENSBORO, N. C. See
how well = Qt xXie—— of the second quarter. Five first downs put the ball on the 2-yard line and
Sook carried it across in two tries. Score: Sophs 6, Fresh 0. Briggs kicked off to Williams, who returned 11
yards to the 21-yard line. On the next play Anderson recovered a fumble on the 15-yard line. Green twisted through
left tackle for 5 yards, and the half ended with the ball in the Sophs' possession on the 10-yard line.
Score: Sophs 6, Fresh 0.

Patterson received the kickoff and ran it back 10 yards to the 32-yard line. On the next play John Ballard
threw a pass to Anderson who ran 68 yards to a touchdown, but Ballard clipped a man from behind the
10-yard line and the Sophs were penalized 15 yards. Four plays gained 5 yards and the ball went over on
the 20-yard line. Three plays gained 4 yards and McMillan punted.

Green ripped off 6 yards around left end and Sook Boggs circled the other end for 16 yards. Four plays
gained 9 yards and the ball went over on the 3-yard line. The Sophs recovered the ball on the next
play when Green intercepted a pass on the 16-yard line. Boggs went through left tackle for 13 yards and Ballard
carried it over for a touchdown. Score: Sophs 12, Fresh 0.

For the Sophs, Captain Briggs at center starred, making half the tackles for his team. On the defense no one
could pass him. The whole line was invincible, and of the 20 yards gained by the Fresh during the game,
less than 5 yards were made through the line. In the backfield, Boggs, Ballard, and Green gained most of the
215 yards by the Sophs. John Anderson, on end, deserves mention for his long run and his work in recovering
a Fresh fumble. For the Fresh, Baker and Williams played well, and the punting of McMillan kept down the Soph
score.

NFLUENZA
As a preventive, melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply a little up nostrils before mingling with crowds.

Captain Pat Crawford, around whom Coach Buck is building his million-dollar infield, is cutting up around the initial sack this
year as never before—and that’s saying a lot! His freshman year the smiling Irishman was needed worse in the outfield
and while there he hung up an enviable record. He finished the season with a perfect fielding average and stood
second in the batting percentage column. The next two years Pat made himself at home around first base and was
given an all-state berth at that position both seasons. Pat takes everything headed in his direction and very seldom fails
to chalk up an “out” against the opposing team. He likes to take the impossible chances and make them look
easy. But Pat is an even more valuable asset to a team at the bat than in the field—if that
is possible. He takes a Babe Ruth swing at the ball every time, and when the willow connects—as she has
a regular habit of doing—the old apple seeks a resting place in some remote cornfield.

With Pat at the helm, and with every man out showing the real Wildcat fighting spirit, Coach Buck and Coach
Dutch have all the requisites necessary for a team that should make a record for Davidson on the diamond this
year. Watch out, ye contenders for the State Championship! The Red and Black is out to win, and looking mean!

Here and There
Rev. Eugene Alexander, '12, has removed from Raeford, N. C., to Salisbury, where he has assumed the pastorate of the
Second Presbyterian Church. Rev. L. T. Wilds, ’06, has resigned the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church at Lexington, N. C.,
to accept like work at Hendersonville, N. C. R. H. Bennett, '16, of Gastonia, N. C., spent the weekend on
the campus with his cousin, C. F. Smith, ’26. Rev. E. B. Thompson, '14, has moved from Yanceyville, N. C.,
to Winnsboro, La. Rev. W. C. Williams, ex ’14, is Superintendent of Home Missions in Tygart’s Valley Presbytery and is
living at present at Elkins, W. Va. Rev. W. D. Wolfe, ’11, has removed from Thomas, West Virginia, to Jellico
Plains, Tenn. Dr. J. T. Wearn, '13, Instructor in the medical department of the University of Pennsylvania, has recently won
the Boylston Prize of $500.00 offered by Harvard University for the best essay on some phase of medical science. Dr.
Wearn, who is well known in medical circles, received his college education at Davidson after which he studied medicine at
Harvard. Joe Barnett, ex-’18, formerly of Clover, S. C., is now connected with the Citizen's National Bank at Gastonia, N.
C. Edward McFadden White ’14, one of Chester, S. C.'s most popular young men, and Miss Pauline Green of Columbia
were married March 8th in Columbia by Rev. Mark L. Carlisle. Immediately after the wedding they left for a honeymoon
to points in Florida.

Cynical Cyrus says: “A girl that gets her hair bobbed ought to be switched, and she will as soon as
it gets out of fashion.”

Substitutions: Sophs—Hastie for Matthews; Alexander for McAulay; McAlpin for Alexander; Brice for Anderson. Fresh: Joiner for Ratchford; Rawson for Jones;
Beall for McNair; McNair for Beall. Referee: Shepherd (Davidson); umpire, George (Virginia); head linesman, C. M. Davis (Davidson). Time of
Quarters—10:8:10:8.

Lineup and summary:
SOPHS 12 Position FRESH 0
Matthews...... Left End......... Baker(c)
Patterson...... Left Tackle........... Neil
McAulay...... Left Guard....... McMillan
Briggs(c)...... Center................. Cox
Lewis.......... Right Guard ......... Smith
Summers...... Right Tackle ....Ratchford
Anderson...... Right End ........ Crayton
Green.......... Quarterback ....... Williams
McLean........ Left Halfback ....... Jones
Ballard........ Right Halfback...McMillan
Boggs......... Fullback ........... McNair

Soph Scoring: Touchdowns, Boggs; Ballard.
First Downs: Sophs 12; Fresh 2.

Make good as a salesman because—
They have natural training.
They know how to think and act quickly.
They understand what it is to “fight through.”

LIBERAL CONTRACTS
