2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

Wildcats Christen Richardson Field in Opening Clash
First Game Under New Coaching Regime, Test of Wildcat Strength

The initial fracas of the 1923 season will take place when the Christians from Elon invade the lair of Wildcats
on Saturday, September 22nd. This game will serve to show Coach Younger what he wants to know about his team
and will largely determine the lineup which will defend the honor of Davidson against all comers on the gridiron this
year. Little is known of the Elon eleven, except that they have a good many old men back, as a
nucleus for the 1923 eleven. They are probably working as hard as possible to do all they can and saying
as little as possible about what they are doing, so all the supporters of Davidson may look for a good
fight in the first game.

The score Saturday will be a minor consideration; the thing that counts is the class of football and the Wildcat
fighting spirit that every man on the team, every student, and every Davidson supporter exhibits. The new field is rapidly
being got into shape for the game. The new road from Charlotte to Davidson is already in shape and many
of the Davidson supporters from the Queen Bee City are expected to be on hand to witness the initial struggle
of Coach Younger’s new Wildcat team. The Wildcats are out to win and the spirit shown at the game will
determine the success of the whole season.

STUNT NIGHT (Continued from page 1)
Selection of features but the following are particularly suggested: monologues, dialogues, short skits, acrobatic stunts, and any form of vocal
or instrumental performance.

FANCY GROCERIES FOR FEEDS
Boys Welcome
H. M. JOHNSTON

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Goods Co.

With Elon Saturday
DAVIDSON COLLEGE 1923 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 22—Elon College at Davidson.
Sept. 28—Presbyterian College of S. C. at Rock Hill, S. C.
Oct. 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
Oct. 13—Citadel at Davidson.
Oct. 20—Wake Forest at Charlotte, N. C.
Oct. 24—Furman at Columbia (S. C. State Fair.)
Nov. 3—N. C. State at Charlotte, N. C.
Nov. 9—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.
Nov. 17—North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 29—Trinity College at Charlotte (Thanksgiving.)

WILDKITTENS FACE STERN OPPOSITION ON GRIDIRON
Yearling Team Meets Five Teams on Foreign Soil

On Friday, September 14th, four teams of grid candidates began the training that will earn eleven of them a berth
on the Freshman football team. Since then Coach Clarence Rawson has put the new men through an intensive study of
the fundamentals. This work, which includes limbering-up exercises, falling on the ball, blocking, charging, and a little tackling, is well
under way. The four teams formed have made good progress and there will be light scrimmage this week.

Six games have been booked for the Kittens this Fall, though the majority of the first-year elevens play but four
games in a season. This heavy schedule means hard work on the part of the new men and that is
what Coach Rawson is giving them. The Kittens will be a light team and will depend upon speed to gain
ground. Little more is known of the style of play but the Freshmen will show their stuff on the home
field on October 6th against the Furman Fresh.

As yet the dope as to who will hold down the various positions cannot be given out for the simple
reason that no one knows. In the backfield, a number of men are showing up well. Sapp of Winston-Salem, Hewlett,
captain of the Wilmington High School team last season, and Goodykuntz of Bluefield, West Va., seem to be the best
behind the line. Brand of McCallie and Groove of Thomasville, Ga., also look like the real goods. Lincoln of Marion,
Va., Green of San Antonio Military Academy, Hudgins of Bluefield, W. Va., Varnadoe of Thomasville, Ga., Wharton of Smithville, and
Bohannon and McConnell of Davidson, have shown up well in the line.

The new coach, Coach Clarence Rawson, who is piloting the Kittens this fall, is a former star athlete at the
University of Georgia. He is an all-round star and will also coach the basketball and baseball teams of the first-year
men. Under his leadership, the Fresh football team is sure to have a successful season. The full schedule is as
follows:
October 6—Furman Freshmen at Davidson.
October 18—Presbyterian College Freshmen at Rock Hill.
November 1—N. C. State Freshmen at Pinehurst during the Sandhill Fair.
November 9—U. of S. C. Freshmen at Columbia, S. C.
November 16—Wofford College Freshmen at Spartanburg, S. C.
November 30—Oak Ridge Institute at Winston-Salem.

The mission squad that went out to the convict camp last Sunday reports that they were gratified to see such
a large crowd out to the service. The convict camp services always have perfect attendance.

Ex-Fresh Forrest Franklin reports a pleasant vacation spent in West Virginia. He says you ought to have seen the moon
shine at night up there.

Yard Lines
By W. F. Galloway

Back Coach Monk. Elon first, and then P. C. Will you be at Rock Hill? A new field, new coaches,
but that old-time “PEP.” Start things right. Get behind that team. Eleven wild Wildcats on the new field Saturday. Five
hundred wilder Wildcats on the sidelines. Get together gang! Let the world know that a Wildcat can yell. Don’t be
a kicker. If you can do it better yourself, ask Coach Monk for a uniform. There’s always room for another
good man. The Christians are coming over to baptize the new field. Watch the Wildcats keep ’em busy during the
baptism. Don’t wait for the other fellow to start the “pep.” Start it yourself.

We haven’t got room to talk about all of our good backs, but maybe Faison and Nappy don’t look good
at end. They say down in South Carolina that the chances are two-to-one that P. C. will lick Davidson this
year. Let’s have the student body there to see the Wildcats upset somebody’s sweet dreams.

’19—P. C. 0, Davidson 0.
’20—P. C. 7, Davidson 0.
’21—P. C. 0, Davidson 7.
’22—P. C. 8, Davidson 7.

It will be a great game fellows. It’s worth three dollars to see the Wildcats get revenge. There’s more than
one way of showing your school spirit. “Put out” a little to show that your spirit isn’t all noise. Be
at Rock Hill. If you can’t get a ticket they say the roads are good, and anyway walking’s fine.

Carolina loses some year. With Cochran, Pritchard, and Blount gone from the lines, and McGee, Morris, and “Red” Johnson out
of the show as back, the Tarheels are...Going to have a hard time getting together another “miracle team” this year.
Good men! Get off with the gang, back them Wildcats.

STUDENTS WORKING ON NEW ATHLETIC FIELD

In response to Coach Younger’s call for volunteers to work on the new athletic field and help get it in
condition for the Elon game, a number of students donned overalls and set to work. On any afternoon since then,
if one should visit the athletic field, he would see a score or more of husky fellows using pick, shovel,
mattock, rake, and wheelbarrow. Although these students are getting pay for their work, their services are appreciated because of the
spirit in which they do the work. It shows that whenever Davidson College needs the services of her sons, she
has only to give the call. It also shows to the football men that they have the support of the
entire student body. Every man on the team ought to feel that he has the support of the entire student
body. It is true that the pay these men get has its inducements, but that is not the only thing
for which these men are going out every afternoon. It is the spirit of the thing that counts. It will
not be long until Davidson will have one of the best athletic fields in the South, and each student who
helped on it will be proud that he has had a part in making it. The field will no doubt
be in splendid condition for the Elon game, and due credit is to be given to those men who helped
to do the work.

CAROLINA WILL NAME PLACE FOR BIG GAME

The location of the Carolina game on November 17th is still undecided, though Charlotte, Winston, and Chapel Hill are all
digging strong. Owing to the incomplete condition of our new stadium, it will be impossible for it to be played
at Davidson. If the game is staged in Chapel Hill this year, it means that it will be played here
next year. Our new stadium will then have been completed, and there will be a large crowd. If it is
played in Charlotte this year, probably more of the student body could attend than if it were played at either
Chapel Hill or Winston-Salem, but in that case, it is only a one-year proposition and will not be in this
vicinity next year. Winston-Salem is the most unlikely of the three; however, it lies in the hands of Carolina to
name the place, and there is a slight probability of her naming that city. Of the three locations, Chapel Hill
is the most to be desired. Those who will not be able to see the game there this year can
afford to wait until next year and then see it played here on the finished Richardson Athletic Field, which will
then be the pride of our athletes and our college as a whole. But Charlotte, Winston, or Chapel Hill, the
Wildcats are going to pull down that 29-6 score of last year.

ANNUAL FRESH-SOPH CLASH BEING PLANNED

Baseball fans in college will have an opportunity to see a live, snappy game when the Freshmen play the Sophomores
in a few weeks. The date has not been set, but it will take place on the first Saturday afternoon
when the football team is on a trip. This is an annual affair, with teams from these two classes clashing
every fall. While it is not yet possible to estimate the strength of the Freshman team, it is a known
fact that they will make a formidable opponent. From as large a class as they have, they are sure to
put forth a good team since many of their number have had experience on high school and prep school nines.
The Sophomore team, playing as Freshmen last year, were runners-up in the class series last spring and are out to
win this game. Most of the members of the old team will play, although some, including Laird and Black, are
on the varsity football squad. The call for candidates will be issued in a few days, and it is expected
that a large number from each class will respond. This is sure to be a good game as both teams
are fairly well matched.

EIGHTY-SEVENTH SESSION (Continued from page 1)

...too, this year are in larger numbers than formerly. It is understood that there were more than a hundred who
had to be refused admittance to the college and that the school was full by the middle of the summer.
No data is compiled as yet with reference to the distribution of the students by states and countries, nor regarding
their vocations.

NEW WATTS DORMITORY (Continued from page 1)

This feature also ought to help deaden the sounds in the building. There are many other improvements observed about the
campus by the returning students. A cement and brick wall now holds in check a small bank in front of
East and West dormitories where the dormitory rooms are located. The two small plots of ground on either side of
the doorway of the new dormitories are filled with new grass, and the space between East and West dormitories, which
last year had such an unfinished appearance, this year is well leveled and terraced, with supporting cement walls. The “Temporary”
building has taken on a more permanent look in its new coat of light gray paint, and the bell tower
is also painted the same color. The old water tank, which it is every Freshman’s ambition to climb, has been
made as insurmountable as possible with new barriers of wood at its base. The coal bins of both the laundry
and the heating plant have been filled to capacity, and the college is safely fortified against the lack of coal
this winter.

MRS. SMITH OBSERVES CONFERENCE HOURS

For the convenience of students who would like to confer with her on matters pertaining to the upkeep of the
dormitories, or upon any matter which would come under the direction of the Supervisor of Dormitories, Mrs. N. T. Smith
will observe conference hours every morning in the parlor of West Dormitory. These hours will be from 9:00 till 10:30
a.m. Mrs. Smith urges that every man on the campus feel free to confer with her with regard to beautifying
the dormitory rooms, and that these hours be observed as closely as possible.

For High-Class PRINTING of every description and “Jam-Up” SERVICE, see ELKINS & PRICE, Davidsonian Office, Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub.
Co. Quality Printers.

The most important things in men's clothing are Service and Value. The most important thing in a Store is Honor,
in the Men, in the Methods, and in the merchandise. We show haberdashery fashioned by the foremost makers and designers,
in the Parlor of West Dormitory every Monday. THE KELLY CLOTHING COMPANY
