”THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

CAPT. J. S. MOORE
Halfback—D**

The midget Wildcat leader was handicapped during the early part of the season by malaria, but in the closing games he showed his old-time form and gained a large portion of the Wildcat yardage. End runs and off-tackle plays are his specialty, but he is an accurate receiver of forward passes and can tear through the line for a couple of yards when they are needed. Spratt is as elusive and slippery as an eel, and his broken field running leaves little to be desired. On the defense, Spratt is equally feared. He never misses a tackle and can diagnose his opponents’ play with uncanny ability. When he tackles a man he hits his shoe strings and the man never fails to come down. Spratt donned the moleskins for the final time in the Furman game, and with his passing Davidson loses a halfback of sterling ability, the Tom Thumb of Southern football.

W. S. SHEPHERD
Halfback—D**

Gig closed the season of 1922 by playing the greatest game of his career against the Purple Hurricane of Furman. His end runs, off-tackle drives, forward passing, punting, and place-kick turned the game into a gripping contest when Furman expected an easy victory. Gig is also a wonder at ploughing through the line and is the most versatile of the Wildcat backs. Gig is a Senior this year but has one more year left in which to play football, and the hope that the call of the gridiron will bring him back next season is in the minds of all Davidson men. Shepherd has been handicapped by a bad leg during the season, but in the final games seemed in the top of form. Whether he returns next year or not, Gig has won himself a place in the Wildcat Hall of Fame by his beating Carolina and his work against Furman this season.

E. S. FAISON
End—D**

For the third season in succession, ’Lias has been an important cog in the Wildcat grid machine. Playing on the right flank, he has been an important factor in the strong defense which the team has exhibited. On account of his wonderful work in the V. P. I. game, he was selected as an All-State end by many close observers of the game. When an off-tackle play is called, ’Lias always boxes in his man and allows the runner a free passage through the line of scrimmage. Faison is also a dependable end on the offense, but it is in the defensive line that he stars most often. After ’Lias had thrown back the V. P. I. runners time after time, one of them was heard to remark that one yard around Faison was good for 15 around any other end. Faison will be back next year and should prove the best wingman in the State.

C. M. DAVIS
End—D**

What Faison was on the defense, Nappy Davis was on the offense. When a pass was shot anywhere near him it meant a gain and a march toward the enemy's goal. Four times Nappy carried the oval across for a touchdown and on other occasions placed the ball in scoring distance. His touchdowns against Carolina and Furman are worthy of special mention. Although Nappy starred on the offense, his defensive work featured in several games. Against V. P. I. and Furman he was at his best and few gains were registered around his end. Nappy has two more years before him, so the Wildcats will have two of the best wingmen in the State covering the flanks with Nappy and ’Lias back in their old positions. There is no harder player on the team than Nappy, and although he weighs only 155 pounds, he is well able to take care of anyone who faces him.

J. P. HENDRIX
Quarterback—D**

A harder worker than Jim cannot be found anywhere, and he ran his team well during the present season. In the first games his inexperience handicapped him, but he developed as the season advanced and was one of the best quarters in the State at the close of the season. He worked his forward passing attack with especial success and passes, Hendrix to Davis, Faison, or Moore, featured every game. Jim played at the safety station and his tackles kept many a man from getting loose for a touchdown. Although playing as a regular for his first year, he showed up well in all departments. The receiving of punts was his biggest weakness, but he has worked hard on this point and is now thoroughly dependable. Jim is a Soph this year, and during the next two seasons will be on hand to run the team and get away on the end runs for which he is famous.

Halfback—D**

Popsy is another man who has proved himself on the gridiron this fall. He won his letter this season by his powerful drive, which carried him through the opposing lines whenever a couple of yards were needed for first down. Seldom did he fail to gain on line bucks and he starred on the receiving end of forward passes. Against the heavy V. P. I. line he proved the most consistent gainer, and also completed a forward pass in this game for a first down. Hunt surprised himself in the Wofford game when he intercepted a pass and went for a touchdown. He showed up well in the Wake Forest game when he gained more ground than any player on the team. With this year’s experience to help him, Hunt’s pile-driving style of play will be a big factor in the Wildcats of 1923.

J. C. MCMASTERS
Tackle—D**

The hearts of Davidson men everywhere rejoiced when the word went round last fall that McMasters had returned to college. Big Mac won his first letter in ’17, playing on the same team that boasted of Wooly Grey, Buck Flowers, George King, and many others of the old guard, whose deeds of greatness on the gridiron have won for them a place of honor in the Wildcat Hall of Fame. This year he returned after an absence of two years and proved to be a tower of strength in the line. Lots of experience and determination have featured Mac’s play this fall. Although not as fast as he once was, he has played his position as only a veteran can, and his record of permitting but one touchdown over his territory all fall shows that he has not lost his old-time skill. McMasters cannot be commended too highly for his wonderful display of college spirit. Few men are willing to return to the gridiron after being out of training for two years, yet Big Mac did that and more, he gave up a successful business. When the S. O. S. call went out last fall, he answered. We appreciate it, Mac.

C. M. CLARKE
Tackle—D**

Montague played his second year of varsity football this year. Scrapper from head to toe, he could always be counted on to hold his own against any opponent. Montague’s confidence helped the team by keeping up their spirits when things looked dark. He is a hard charger and despite his 185 pounds, he is one of the fastest men on the team. Montague has at least one more year on the team and if he shows the improvement that is expected he is sure to knock down a place on the All-State team next year.

D. F. MALLORY
End—D**

Mallory’s spectacular work at end this season won him the coveted football “D.” When used with either Faison or Davis, Davis’ work never suffered by comparison. His particular hobby was snagging passes from Hendrix. Everybody will remember the way he grabbed them in the Wake Forest game for gain after gain. Dan was rather light for defensive work, but always used every pound to advantage. With twoYears to go, Mallory should be as flashy and dependable on the gridiron as he is on the basketball court.

M. D. FIELDS
Center—D*
Large of build and possessing a powerful drive, Mason again proved himself to be a valuable linesman. Combined with his physical qualifications, his experience makes him a dangerous man. He seems to know instinctively just where a play is going and he rarely fails to be there to break it up. On the offense, he also plays a bang-up game. His passing is always accurate, and when the backs start on an end run, they are sure that Mason will lead them just right. This lad, who hails from the State made famous by Tom Watson and Bascom Sorrells, will be back again next year and great things are expected of him.

W. T. LONG
Guard—D
Long is one of the fighting types of linesmen that keeps the regulars hopping all the time. Ideally built for a guard, he proved to be a stumbling block to many plays directed against him. His well-earned letter came as a reward for two years of hard work on the gridiron. Although he shows up well in all games, Tige seems to delight in strutting his stuff in Atlanta. For the past two years, he has been one of the outstanding Wildcat stars against Georgia Tech. He will be greatly missed next year.

W. M. COX
Tackle—D
This is another Wildcat who won the coveted monogram because of his wonderful fighting qualities. Although greatly handicapped by his light weight, he played the sort of game that kept the regulars hustling throughout the season. Warren played a smashing game at tackle and succeeded many times in breaking through and getting his man behind the line. He is one of the best linesmen of his weight in the South and with another year’s experience should develop wonderfully.

R. M. BRICE
Center—D*
Next to the quarterback, probably the chief element in a smooth working football machine is the center. Throughout the past season, the center position of the Wildcat line has been upheld to the queen’s taste by R. Marion Brice. He is one of those hard-working, pep-instilling men that always wins the admiration of the sidelines. No matter whether the Wildcats were winning or losing, Brice in his smooth, business-like way, was always putting his best efforts into the game. One only has to mention Bobbie Ling in the N. C. State game and Sutton in the V. P. I. struggle to bring glory to Marion. Brice put out about 120 percent in those two games, and about 115 in the rest of the games. He showed super-human ability in mixing up the end runs and tackle plays of the opponent. Brice finished his football career this year, but the example he set as a hard worker will remain in the Wildcat camp for a goodly number of years.

S. M. DAVIS
Guard—D##*
An end his Freshman year, a tackle for two years, and guard his last year. These facts show that Sam Davis is the best all-round linesman in Davidson. Besides his ability as a football player, the “never-say-die” spirit has never shown itself more clearly in one personality than in that of the Wildcat right guard. He was never knocked out in a game and always presented the very best of gentlemanly conduct on, as well as off, the field. Sam probably played his best game against Georgia Tech when he held the speedy backs of the Tornado on more than one occasion. He has received favorable mention for All-State for several years and he certainly deserves high honors in State circles this year. More honor was bestowed upon Davis last spring when he was elected president of the student body. A more sincere, earnest worker would be hard to find.

G. B. SORRELS
Guard—D*
A fundamental element in the Wildcat eleven was the fight and spirit of the left guard, George Bascom Sorrells. His pep and enthusiasm were not only evident in the games but also in the practices “where all games are played first.” It was always an outstanding feature. Although Bascom has run for the last time from his little group of High School Wildkittens to take his place in the line, his versatility, strength, and personality will remain imprinted on the cohorts of Davidson for many years to come. Bascom is not only an athlete of no mean ability but also a vital factor in all the student body activities. He is probably the most popular man in college and president of the Senior class, as well as an active literary society member. Those of us who saw the V. P. I. game will never forget Bascom.

DeARMON
The whole team played as one man in the V. P. I. game, but if you could place any one individual, Doc DeArmon would certainly push somebody for honors. He made his letter in that game and he made it very creditably. Backing up the line, there wasn’t a single play that went around him, and in nearly every play, the last man to get up was “Doc,” ready to go again. He had the misfortune to have one of his ribs broken in the first half but was not taken out until the latter part of the third quarter. DeArmon has another year at Davidson and his presence next year will be no small asset to the prospects of the Wildcat eleven of 1923. Quiet and reserved, but a natural wildfire on the football field is Doc in a nutshell. His fighting spirit will long be remembered by the supporters of the Red and Black.

L. W. D
DICK
When the 1922 season was in its earliest stages, a midget backfield man of former years made his appearance, and stock went up immediately. The very presence of Leonard Dick seemed to make a difference in the pep and fight of the Wildcat eleven. Although Dick played on the second team, his leadership and speed combined with general good qualities won for Dick the coveted monogram. For a man of his size, Dick is a wonder. If he could have added about 20 pounds and two inches, he would make Bo McMillan look carefully for his laurels. Leonard is spending his last year at Davidson, but it is sincerely hoped that his fighting, digging mantle will fall on the shoulders of one capable of bearing it. Besides being an athlete, Dick is a mind in the student activities. What he lacks in size, he makes up in ability.

W. J. MARTIN, Jr.
Halfback—D
Bill, although being ineligible against S. I. A. A. teams, proved to be one of the greatest backfield men who ever donned the Red and Black moleskins. He was truly a fighting Wildcat. His terrible line smashing was sensational, but his greatest value lay in his beautiful defensive work. He was a wonder at backing up the line. His punting was of the highest caliber. Every Davidson supporter will always remember Bill’s wonderful punting in the famous V. P. I. game, when several of his long spirals traveled 70 yards.

REPORTERS’ CLUB HAS NEW PLANS FOR YEAR
At the last regular meeting of the Reporters’ Club before the Christmas holidays, the club decided to take up some line of constructive work. The exact lines that the work will follow have not yet been determined, but it is certain that it will be confined to the study of newspaper articles, headlines, the general make-up of the newspapers, etc. A committee of three, W. P. Brown, chairman, D. B. Walthall, and J. R. Earnest, was appointed to arrange an introductory program and also a system of carrying on the work. So far as has been determined, the programs will consist of lectures, papers, and general discussions of the subjects.

WE WILL BE LOOKING FOR ALL THE BOYS SATURDAY
EXCLUSIVE MEN’S SHOP
Make This Your Headquarters
34 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C.
Clothing and Furnishings for Young Men