». THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

WARHOSS LEADS TRIBE ON INITIAL WAR PATH

Early Wednesday morning Coach Grey will put his poison squad on the war-path. N. C. State, Wake Forest, Elon, and
Guilford represent the enemies’ territory, which is to be invaded. These colleges have four of the strongest teams in the
State, yet the Wildcats are determined to bring back four victories. Without a doubt, it is a most difficult task
which they are undertaking, but the knowledge that the student body is behind them to a man will lead them
on to superhuman efforts, and it is felt that on their return the sting of the Trinity defeat will have
been wiped out, by comparative scores at least, since the team does not play again the Methodist this season.

N. C. State will furnish the opposition on Wednesday night. Although the Wildcats experienced very little difficulty in defeating them
here, it is quite evident that State is playing a different brand of basketball now. Recently the fast quint from
Florida had to bow before State to the tune of 30 to 18. Elon also was forced to accept defeat
at their hands, after playing two extra five-minute periods. The final score was, Elon 21; State 23. This is all
the more notable when it is remembered that this game was played on Elon’s own patented court. With these facts
in hand, Davidson will hardly enter the game over-confident. Nevertheless, plenty of determination will be there in the place of
any would-be over-confidence, and the students are looking for a clean-cut victory to head the invasion of the old North
State.

On the following night, the Wildcats will match their strength with our old-time enemy and rival, Wake Forest. This will
no doubt prove to be the hardest game of the trip. Wake Forest will be on her toes for revenge
after the two defeats handed them by the Wildcats last year. As to the prowess of the team this year,
their strength has already been demonstrated. Carolina alone has been able to come out on top in a clash with
the strong Baptists. Trinity was defeated in Durham by one point. Elon, Guilford, and State have all been met and
defeated on their own courts. On this night, then, Davidson must make her strongest bid for the State championship. A
victory for the Wildcats will put them in direct line for a final and deciding game with Carolina.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

No. 8—Samuel Reeves Keesler, Jr., '17

Football, Baseball

Samuel Reeves Keesler, Jr., is probably the greatest field general who ever donned the moleskins at Davidson. No more loyal
son of Davidson ever fought on the gridiron. When the Great War broke out he became an aviator and as
a member of the U. S. Aviation Corps he made the supreme sacrifice in France and died as he had
always lived, a fighter.

Sam came to Davidson from Greenwood, Miss., and was scrub quarterback his first year. The next season he led the
Wildcats through one of the most successful seasons of their history. Carolina was the only team to wrest a victory
from the Wildcats. Only five feet and weighing a scant 135 pounds, Sam was a wonder at running through a
broken field. In 1915, when Georgia Tech wore out the scrapping Wildcats in the last half and won 9-0, Sam
carried the ball across during the first period but the backfield was in motion and the score was not allowed.
Against A. & M., 16-0 in 1916, it was Sam Keesler who skirted the Engineers’ flanks, shot forward passes to
the waiting ends, and ran back punts for a total of 116 yards and by his aggressive tactics led the
Wildcats to their last victory over State on the gridiron.

His last year Sam worked on the receiving end of the Davidson batteries. Though small he was a great catcher
and worked his pitches well. He proved as Ray Schalk had done in the majors that a catcher did not
need to be a physical giant. In addition to his athletic prowess, Sam was a real leader and in his
senior year was president of the student body. Along literary and scholastic lines he was recognized as a leader.

When America entered the war Sam enlisted in the Aviation Corps and in 1918, was an aero observer in France.
On the afternoon of October 8, he was attacked by four Boches and was shot.

THE Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT

SPORTING GOODS

Basketball, Tennis, Baseball goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach, and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency for
A. G. Spalding & Bros.

ATHLETICS

HILL’S BASKETBALL HULL

Six blue ribbons in seven starts—Ain’t nature grand? The Fighting Devils ain't nothing short of the tad-pole’s collar buttons. Let’s
ship them to Atlanta. Trinity didn’t fail to put the skids under the Devil’s last week. First set-back in seven
starts, too. But the Wildcats went under fighting; it seemed to be the ambition of every player to make his
rival’s parents invest in cemetery real estate.

“Give me wine, women, and song, especially the first three,” muttered Pat Crawford as Jimmie Simpson hung up his seventeenth
point.

Our mat mechanics hoop up with the Trinity grapplers on the 23rd. Take notice Cromartie, Lindamood, etc., we crave revenge!

Warhoss’ eye for the basketball from the charity line is second only to the machine gunner’s. His aim at the
elusive loop has been good on 34 out of 50 occasions.

Chong McIlwaine, the dope fiend, is getting up a complete record of Davidson athletics. Dope on the following football games
is missing. Can you help?

1897—Dates and places of games.
1903—Scores of games.
1905—Scores of games.
1906—Scores of games.
1911—Dates, places, and players.
1912—Scores and places of games.
1913—Scores of N. C. State and Piedmont games.

How They Hit

Player Field Goals Foul Goals Total Points
Mauze 24 34 82
Miller 26 0 52
Crawford 21 0 42
Staley 15 0 30
Beall 3 0 6
McConnell 3 0 6
Mallory 2 0 4
Boggs 2 0 4
Davis 1 1 3
Biking 1 0 2
DeArmond 0 0 0
Sappenfield 0 0 0
98 35 231

Maybe Wofford hasn’t the best team in the South, but they have a fighting team and one that showed the
best spirit of any team that has visited Davidson in a long time. Their action in stopping their shooting while
the band played “O, Davidson” was just about the finest exhibition of sportsmanship the writer has ever seen. Why can’t
Davidson teams follow that example? Captain, Warhoss, and Fighting Devils, lead the way.

If Brother Noah has been looking down from above this week he must have been chuckling as he has seen
us flapping around the campus like mud-larks searching for Mt. Ararat.Three times in the heart and three times in the
abdomen. After falling to the ground, he was shot in the hip. He was taken to a German prison camp
and died at noon the following day. In honor of his loyalty and courage, which never failed him, he was
awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. No truer Davidsonian, no cleaner fighter, and no more patriotic American ever lived and died
for his country, and it is to such men that Davidson owes her reputation and fighting spirit.

p22

ELIMINATION PROCESS FOR WRESTLING TEAM

The wrestling team has settled down to serious work in preparation for the meets with Trinity and Carolina on February
23 and 24, and this week will find Coach Bangle and Captain Cromartie conducting a meet of their own to
determine who shall occupy berths on the official team. It is planned to hold a regular match meet Wednesday or
Thursday of this week in which, by a process of elimination, the team will be chosen. Those trying out for
the respective weights will, discontinuing the habit of working together, be testing their ability by working against each other in
an effort to eliminate said other from the meet, and hence from the team. In this manner, the best in
each weight will be determined. Those out for wrestling have sworn that Trinity's winning streak shall be broken if possible,
and all effort will be made to avenge the defeats Trinity has handed Davidson in football and basketball.

The memory of this will be enough to make old Warhoss and his cohorts forget everything else and win this
game.

Guilford comes last on the schedule of games for this strenuous week. The Frazier brothers are playing great ball this
year, and so far Guilford has only lost to Wake Forest. If there is an ounce of fight left in
the Wildcats after three such wearing games, just notice this:

On Your Way Through A Pair of Shoes

On your way through the shoes you are now wearing, if they fit well at just three spots—the heel, the
instep, and the toes—they will not look old for a long time. If they do not fit well there, they
will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix Shoes next time. See how well they fit
and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.

CAROLINA’S RECORD UNMARRED TO DATE

The victories of Carolina over Wake Forest and Trinity, with no other team in the State having a clean record,
make it seem probable that the Tar Heels are in for another championship. Some of the wins of the University
have been by bare margins of a point or two, and it is possible that somebody will trip them up.
Wake Forest has had her chance, however, and failed by a goal. Trinity is the only other State team on
the Carolina schedule that looks anything like formidable. The Tar Heels defeated the Methodists in the first game at Durham,
20-19. Wake Forest has won a clean-cut victory over Trinity and taken two from State, and despite her losses to
Carolina, looks a trifle better than Davidson when the Wildcats' defeat by Trinity is considered. The game with the Baptists
this week will show how much comparative scores can be relied on. Unless the Wildcats lick Wake Forest, it looks
as if they will have to be content with third position.

N.C. State is the goat of all the State quints this season. The Raleigh lads have lost twice to Wake
Forest, split with Elon, and suffered a crushing defeat by Davidson. Only by a miracle can they hope to do
much against Carolina when they meet this season.

The University of Alabama and North Carolina remain undefeated in Dixie basketball circles and are leading the field toward the
championship by a fair margin. Alabama has won fifteen straight games, her list of victims including the Atlanta Athletic Club,
Mississippi, Vanderbilt, and Kentucky. Although the North Carolinians are undefeated, they can offer no such list of defeated opponents as
the Crimson Tide. There is no basis for comparative scores, however, and the result will have to be left to
the tournament. Mercer, last year’s runner-up for the championship, had a disastrous Northern trip this season when they lost five
out of seven games. Decisive defeats by North Carolina and Pennsylvania were the principal blots on the schedule. Back at
home, however, the Mercerites have landed on their feet, and a clean-cut victory over A. A. C. shows the real
strength of the team. Georgia has defeated most of the South Carolina colleges, and until they invaded Tennessee last week,
had an untarnished collegiate record. Losses to Vanderbilt and Tennessee, however, make it appear that the Georgians will be left
behind in the tournament this month. Another factor that points toward this result is the difficulty the Bulldogs had in
defeating Auburn and Wofford, who hardly have A1 teams this season. Furman and Clemson both licked the Plainsman worse than
Georgia. Newberry is going like a house afire and may prove to be the dark horse of the tournament. Newberry
41, South Carolina 9, and Newberry 48, Citadel 10, shows the character of the team. They eliminated Newberry by a
single point, one of the hardest games of the tournament. They have victories over Auburn, Georgetown, and Spartanburg “Y” to
their credit, but a split with Clemson mars their record.

The University of Chattanooga is another small school that presents a constant threat in their lanky center, Redd, and they
are likely to throw a scare into some of the “big dogs” at the tournament.

N. C. OLYMPIC MEET TO BE HELD IN MAY

The North Carolina Olympic games will be held in Durham, May 4 and 5. All colleges of the State will
compete for honors. Carolina took first place last year, but according to all rumors, Davidson will give them a close
call this year.

Matches will be held in track, tennis, golf, wrestling, boxing, swimming, baseball, and horseshoe pitching at the meet. Davidson will
be represented by its track, tennis, golf, and wrestling teams, from whom great things are expected. The men who made
the trip last year are very enthusiastic over the prospects of returning this year. They had a splendid time. All
the events are open to the visitors free; in fact, the city opens wide its portals for the reception of
these battling athletes. A good time is guaranteed to all. No definite plans have been decided upon as yet, but
it is high time for men hoping to make this trip to begin getting lined up.

Since we have moved into our new store, 27 North Tryon, you will find that we have a more complete
line of Young Men’s Togs than ever. Be sure and make this your headquarters while in the city.
