THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

Sport is unknown to quite a few and interesting to all. From General Smuts, “Humanity has struck its tents and once again is on the march.”

DOPE MAKES GENERAL CONFLICTING ASSERTIONS

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, National Honorary Chemical Fraternity, at its regular meeting Friday night elected to membership the following men: J. B. Gallant, A. M. Sample, J. E. Singletary, and J. N. Williams. The election was held in the fraternity’s hall in the Martin Chemical Laboratory Building. To be elected into membership in the Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a student must have achieved eminence in the chemical line of college activities, both from a point of view of scholastic grades and personal endeavor.

The following are the members of Gamma Sigma Epsilon in the Davidson student body: G. M. Ford, Marion Murray, R. R. Jones, W. M. Cox, and W. Z. Bradford, all members of the Senior Class, and F. C. Thames, a postgraduate. Membership among the faculty includes Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry Department, and Mr. O. J. Thies, Jr., Instructor in chemistry.

All county and town officials in Mecklenburg and Iredell Counties have been especially invited and are expected to turn out almost unanimously. The civic organizations of a number of towns have been asked to appear as such organizations and will do much to encourage support of the celebration. But chiefly, the public at large is urged to come and from the interest already manifested it is evident that the event will be a howling success. Newspaper editors all over the state are giving publicity freely, and the publicity committee, with Mr. J. P. Williams as chairman, are almost assuring a success in the bountiful advertising they are affording the event. Handbills are being distributed in a number of places, signs are appearing on the backs of the numerous busses operating in this district, and everybody is being told of the gala day in some way. Indications are that the crowd cannot but gather, granting that the weather is fair.

Mr. Van Sant, as chairman of the grounds and decoration committee, promises to give the affair a festival appearance in the various decorations he is planning. Archways will be placed over the roads entering Davidson and general holiday decorations will be put up. Mr. Ryan will have charge of the town decorations, which should be elaborate in their extent, as the Davidson business houses have contributed freely to a decoration fund. Concessions have already been let for a number of lunch and cold drink booths. Davidson bids fair to resemble, in its festive costume, a gigantic circus, and the crowd that gathers should have no less fun than is possible before the sawdust ring.

FRESH NOSE OUT JUNIORS

For the first time in years the freshmen have had brass enough to win from an upperclass basketball team. The fresh defeated the Juniors last Friday night by the score of 26 to 25. This game will be remembered by those who saw it for some time on account of its having three extra playing periods attached. There was more cheering going on by the freshmen than has been seen in many a day. The crowd mostly were for the fresh anyway and the added volume of the whole freshman class made it sound like a football game.

At the end of the regular playing period, the score stood 23 to 23. Another playing period of five minutes was announced and so the two teams proceeded to see which one would win. Beall shot a goal to start things off with and then just before the whistle blew, Pat McNair put one through the ring. This made another period necessary so they played five more minutes. This time neither team scored so they played five more minutes. Captain Fawcette put a free shot in from the 17-foot line and the game was won for the fresh. The game was on the whole one of the fastest of the inter-class type that has ever been seen here. The Freshmen wanted to show the Juniors how good they were but the Juniors refused to be shown, and so a fast, hard-fought game proceeded to develop. There was only one feature that proved to be unpleasant, and that was the fact that no less than four men were put out of the game for personal fouls. Both sides played excellent ball and there was good teamwork displayed after the regular periods had finished.

GOV. MORRISON TO ADDRESS CROWD

(Continued from page 1)

Will be followed by a concert by a visiting band. The Fort Bragg Band has been invited to fill the second number on the program, but it is not definitely known whether they will be able to appear or not. Immediately after these concerts, the Davidson College R. O. T. C. unit will pass in review before Governor Morrison and other notables of the State.

Dinner on the grounds will be next in order. Davidson College will honor at a special luncheon the out-of-town guests and speakers, and Davidson's spacious campus will be thrown open for the visiting crowds who will bring lunches and spread them in picnic style. It is planned to serve coffee free. Immediately after dinner the speaking will take place, as described above. The afternoon will be thrown open to other events, chiefly athletic. Dr. Arbuckle, Chairman of the Athletic Committee, has about completed plans for a football and polo game. His first efforts were to secure Charlotte and Statesville high school teams for their annual clash, but their schedule had already been too definitely arranged. Present indications are that the local high school will meet either the Greensboro, Hickory, or Gastonia high school team. The game should be a good exhibition of football, for the local outfit is playing a good brand of ball this season.

The Athletic Committee plans as the closing event of the day a polo game. While this feature cannot be definitely announced at this writing, it is practically certain that the game will be played a mile from Davidson, on Captain Reid Morrison’s farm. A good game of this newly popular sport would be the feature of the athletic program, as the season a little over half through Davidson stands with a 50-50 basis of games won and lost. The Wildcats have won three and lost three. Elon, P. C., and Citadel fell. Elon seems to have the best of the smaller college teams in the state, having lost only to Davidson in the first game of the season. P. C. lost in one of the best games of the year to the Wildcats, 3 to 0. The Blue Stockings beat U. of S. C. 7 to 3. South Carolina held Clemson to a 7 to 6 score. This gives Davidson a three-point margin on Clemson. Although the Tech boys have a much heavier club, the Wildcats are relying on that old fighting spirit and their strong defense to carry them over the South Carolinians.

V. P. I. beat Davidson 7 to 0 on an intercepted pass. It was a game featured by the great defensive work of the Wildcats. The Gobblers lost most of their feathers in this game. V. P. I. defeated Maryland 16 to 7 and beat Carolina the following Saturday 14 to 0. This gives Davidson a 21-point margin over Carolina. Dope is often upset, however, and we are not relying on that to beat Carolina.

Not wholly recovered from the terrible battle of the Saturday before with V. P. I., Davidson played rather ragged football for three quarters of the game withCitadel, winning by a 7 to 0 score. The South Carolinians played a great game of football, giving the Davidson defense something to think about. Then came the downfall of the Wildcats. Wake Forest won 6 to 0. They deserved to win, as they gained three times as much ground as the Davidson warriors. The features of the game were the wonderful playing that will gather, but with fair weather Davidson will certainly be filled to the overflowing. High Point, in a similar celebration, featuring a pageant and all-day and all-night celebration, attracted twenty thousand, and Davidson should have no less than half this number. Verily, the keep-off-the-grass signs will have to be removed and the city limits extended. Everything points to the most gigantic celebration and to the “biggest” day ever witnessed in the history of Ole Davidson.

TOM SKEYHILL (Continued from page 7)

"to learn how to co-operate with God and better the world.” These are the kind of scientists the world wants today. “The fifth thought of the young men of Europe is that of internationalism. They believe that the new internationalism must be cultural rather than a legal, or political, internationalism. The internationalism must grow out of the exchange of ideas, lectures, literature, and education. They also want an internationalism that will be in accord with true nationalism.” In conclusion, Mr. Skeyhill said that in these thoughts of the young men he finds a new era bursting forth—a new renaissance. In ending his speech, he used a quotation.

TAILORED AT FASHION PARK

In the 15th Row Paid The Same Price

THERE’S always an advantage in being forehanded—the man in the 15th row at the theatre paid the same price for his ticket as the man in the third—foresight rewarded itself, that’s all. Same theory applies to an overcoat—there are a lot of good reasons for buying yours early. The December price will be the same as the October price—but the assortment will be broken and the chance to get exactly what you want will be less. Today, our assortment of Par-Kerry overcoats tailored at Fashion Park is complete—exactly the model and fabric you want is included.

and sending them back down the court. The Freshmen had a system of passing that seemed to bewilder the Juniors, but they could not shoot goals after they had carried the ball under the goal, while the Juniors seemingly could shoot any time they wanted. There were no outstanding players on either team, each team playing evenly. The guards seemed to be the best men on both teams. Captain Morrison of the Juniors played a splendid game, while Kiser for the Freshmen was very good at breaking up passes. Faison played a great game on his end. N. C. State and Davidson are rated about even, although Tech has a much heavier team. Nothing but pure fight will win that game. The score:

Juniors (25) Freshmen (26)
Patrick (1) Simpson (4) R. F.
Beall (4) Lindley (4) L. F.
Fawcette (6) McNair (12) (C)
Witt (2) Morrison (5) L. G.
Price R. G.

Substitutes: Fresh: Groover for Kiser, Kiser for Simpson, Anderson for Groover, Simpson for Kiser, Groover for Beall. Juniors: Brice for Patrick, Patrick for Brice, Trotter for Lindley, Oeland for Patrick, Lindley for Oeland, Matthews for Trotter, Wharton for Morrison.

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

NEW-CONSTITUTION CHOSEN BY AESCULAPEAN CLUB

At the last meeting of the Aesculapian Club, on October 25th, about 20 members were present to hear a good program, and to discuss matters of business. The meeting was held in the biology laboratory, and was presided over by the president, R. R. Jones. The election of a new secretary in the place of Howell, who has recently been compelled to withdraw from college, was the first matter of business to be taken up. J. E. Singletary was unanimously chosen to fill the place. The next matter of business was the report of the constitutional committee who are framing a new constitution for the club. This was read and adopted. After the business meeting, the club was turned over to the chairman of the program committee, A. P. Hudgins. The first speaker was “Bevo” Davis, who made an instructive and interesting talk on the “Influence of Biology in Medicine.” “Bevo” spent the summer at the University of Chicago, studying biology with its relation to medicine, and so could speak from first-hand information. The next speaker was Appleby, on “Insulin, the new treatment for diabetes.” This substance was discovered by Dr. Bantling, of Toronto University. Some of its powers, and the nature of the disease were discussed. Singletary closed the program with a forceful description of cancer, and its present-day treatment. Besides the regular members, there were several Freshmen present, all of whom were pre-medical students.

GLEE CLUB PERSONNEL

The Davidson College Glee Club has been thoroughly organized for the term’s work, and the program to be used on the fall tour has been practically completed, according to Ted Jones, leader and president of the organization. The club in its personnel includes twenty-five men, as follows:

First Tenors: Watt McCain, C. V. Brown, W. A. McClain, B. T. Crayton, H. M. Alexander, and F. R. Hudson.
Second Tenors: O. J. Allison, J. W. Simpson, F. R. Montgomery, W. H. Crane, M. C. Davis, and J. D. McRae.
First Basses: W. Ted Jones, J. H. Patton, A. M. Martin, J. R. Earnest, D. G. Wilson, and J. I. Groover.
Second Basses: L. D. Elkins, G. R. Dupuy, J. L. Green, J. R. Maxwell, T. C. Barr, B. F. Earnest.
Accompanist: W. W. Purdy.

The club will also carry an eleven-piece symphony orchestra, a six-piece jazz orchestra, and a five-piece string orchestra. The three orchestras have played with the club for two years and their contributions to the program of the club will be valuable.

points and another way they are doped to frock us 14 points. The Wildcats are aching for revenge for last year’s defeat. It promises to be one of the hardest fought games of the season.

Miss Nina Holt White, of Converse College, spent several days with her mother, Mrs. Olive White. Mrs. White has just moved into her new home on Academy street.

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE

Visit Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Soda Candy Cigars Student Supplies Cigarettes

BELK BROS. CO. Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

D-TAILORED SUITS

Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS $4.95, $5.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. $2.95, $3.95, and $4.95

MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s medium weight unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c
Men’s Nainsook unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c
Men’s silk sox 48c, 85c, $1.00