THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

ALHAMBRA — THIS WEEK —
Peggie Osborne’s FASHION REVUE
Also Emmett Miller Direct From Keiths

— NEXT WEEK —
BOOT WALTON’S MUSICAL COMEDY
16 - PEOPLE - 16
MATINEE DAILY : : NIGHT 7:30--9 3:30

Gibson Fretted Instruments: JOS. R. EARNEST, Agt. 7 N. Barracks

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows at 221 West Trade St.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

$$ Merchants & Farmers National Bank Charlotte, N. C. $$
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

In Memorium
I used to call my girl “My Own.”
What'd you quit for?
She thought I was horsin’ her.

Sam—Some people are born great, others have greatness thrust——
Bo—And some people grate on my nerves. Shut up!

Correct As Usual
Tom—You have a wonderful knowledge of the English language. What are the three most popular words?
Thumb—I don't know!
Tom—I’ve never known you to fail!

Placing the Blame
Teacher—Johnny, you know you didn't write this composition. It is too replete with errors. I must notify your mother of your carelessness.
Johnny—I didn’t write it!
Teacher—Then who did?
Johnny—Maw.

Sportsman—Will they put me in jail if I catch fish in this lake?
Guide—No, sir, they'll make you mayor of the town. There ain’t no fish in the pond.

If your man has gone and left you,
Don’t think that love is blind;
He may be gone in person, but
He'll have the presence of mind.

Cromwell—The cylinders of that car remind me of a command I learned today.
Fenton—What’s that?
Cromwell—Fire at random.

Another Essay
A tadpole’s a funny fish most likely. When he shakes his tail he wiggles and when he wiggles he swims and when he swims he shakes himself most vigorously. When he gets water in his mouth he don’t drown because he ain’t that kind of a fish. Most generally he likes water anyway. He just swims all in it. Sometimes he changes to frogs and when he does that ends his tail.

Little Boy—Gimmie a penny’s worth of candy.
Storekeeper—Can’t you make it a nickel’s worth?
Little Boy—No, sir, my dad’s a college professor.

A Tonic
No, Gwinevere, corn whiskey isn’t a patent remedy for business.

Fire Water
Jack and Jill went up the hill
To get a bottle of water,
The revenue officers caught them—
Now, wasn’t that awful, daughter!

Pat—Shucks, no, I ain’t ever been to college. I got my polish livin’ in a mop factory.

Ish you drunk?
I don't shink you did!
Strange! Sounds like I have, but maybe I will.

Did you drink any of the punch at the reception?
No, I got this detective caught during the first waltz.

On the Increase
When we lived in Double Oaks, Cal., our dog had two pups—we moved to Three Corners, W. Va., she immediately gave birth to three beautiful little ones—but we sold her when father decided to move to the Thousand Islands.

If it rains any more, the Saxaphonia will have to be re-christened.

We wonder who swiped the ice cream out of that big cone Allison had at the game?

A la Davidson
Little drops of water,
And great big piles of earth;
When they mix together
We get our money's worth of mud.

Piscean
Our lady is so dumb she thinks wallpaper is the official banker’s weekly. But she’s not as dumb as our other crush who thinks you use a paling to fence with.

Hee! Haw!
Hurd admits that he thought an electric plug was a light horse.

Short—Eat?
Shorter—Huhuh—j’u?
Short—Nope—gonna.

TOM SKEYHILL (Continued from page 1)
...than under a good government obtained by war.
In Turkey, Mr. Skeyhill asked the young men with whom he came in contact whether they were going to continue their fighting. They replied that they did not want to fight any more but simply wanted to be left in peace. The Turks have been fighting continuously for 12 years and now they have signed the treaty of peace.
In Italy, the speaker saw the mobilizing of the Fascisti forces for the overthrow of the government. The members of...The Fascisti, when questioned as to the reason for the uprising, said, “We, the young men of Italy, have won the war and the old men at home have lost the peace, we want peace.” The Fascisti have accomplished their bloodless revolution and have obtained peace. The speaker found the same desire for peace preventing a conflict between the Germans and the French in the Ruhr quarrel. The soldiers of both France and Germany are tired of war and will not let their respective governments draw them into another fight. “In Britain, the situation is the same,” said Mr. Skeyhill. He also believes that he was overthrown by the English people simply because he held to the idea of war too long. The English are tired of war.

Besides this desire for peace, the young men of Europe want a religious reform. They are tired of the ritualism and the formality of the religion which they have. One young man referred to their present religion as “theological theatricals.” In an intelligent group of university students, the speaker heard a bright Hungarian say, “The trouble with our churches in Europe is that, if Jesus Christ returned to earth, He would not qualify as a member of the church.” The young men of Europe want a simplified, rationalistic religion. They want the church to go back to the true religion as it was given by Jesus Christ.

The third thought in the minds of the young men of Europe is the establishment of a system of eugenics. “Eugenics,” said Mr. Skeyhill, “is not something to theorize about and not practice. Eugenics is simply the rule of God for improving and purifying the human race morally, spiritually, intellectually, and physically.” He found that this thought was uppermost in the minds of thinking young men wherever he conversed with them. In the universities of Oxford and the Sorbonne, he found it was the subject upon which the students were thinking seriously. “Eugenics is one of the most Christian things in the world. It is the broadening of the Golden Rule. Stated in words, it is the doing unto the unborn and the born as you would have them do unto you. This is moral! This is spiritual! How can this system of eugenics be applied? The people of the world must first be educated to the value of eugenics. Then laws can be passed to carry out the rules of eugenics. The law requiring a clean bill of health before marriage is the first one to enact. This would do away with many evils of our social life.”

“The young men of Europe want constructive scientists,” the speaker continued. “The real scientist is one who is searching nature (Continued on page 8).

Although he believes Mr. Lloyd George to be the greatest man in England, a universal custom benefits everyone. Every ** aids digestion, cleanses the teeth, soothes the throat.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils—Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with a light cloth. Repeat every few hours.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Parker-Gardner Company