THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 18, 1923

Alhambra
Charlotte’s Only Vaudeville THEATRE

Friday-Saturday
John E. Murphy’s Atlantic City Steel Pier Minstrels
A Real High Class Entertainment

—— COMING —— NEXT WEEK
THE “FOLLIES REVUE”
Presenting
REFINED MUSICAL COMEDY
PRETTY GIRLS
CLEVER COMEDIANS

MATINEE DAILY—3:30
Prices—10c-25c
NIGHT—7:30-9:00
Prices—20c-35c

There was a stage star named Celestus
When she danced the applause was tempestuous,
She whirled and she tripped
Till her shoulder strap slipped—
And they had to ring down the asbestos.

Ikey Jones—"P. C., while I was down in Easley during Christmas I was out riding with a girl when the
car broke down six miles from town, and I had to spend the rest of the evening repairing. What would
you have done?”

P. C. Henderson—"The same thing that you did, only I wouldn't have lied about it.”

He—Where did you do most of your skating while learning?
She—I think you're horrid.

In the latest crop report the Government reports a big prune crop. Heaven help us poor college boarders.

Some of the factors determining a girl's popularity are:
1—A comfortable parlor.
2—The lighting effects.
3—How hard father is.
4—A first class divan.
5—Last, but not least, no fences to jump in case we have to run.

Over in Lenoir, the sterling domicile of one Douglas Bernhardt, they have a freak of nature in that a girl
married a cornet player named Burst. From this union there are three children, Alice May Burst, John Wood Burst, and
Henry Will Burst.

No, Alice, the Freshmen at Davidson do not let the grass grow under their feet!

Historical Essays
Didn't study! Never would! Passed three hours! Home for good!

So far as walking on the grass is concerned the Fresh class have taken for their motto, “Live and let
live.”

On Latin class—"Mr. Carr translate ‘Caesar sic dicat on de curan equiesse lictum.’”
Carr—"Caesar sicked the cat on the cur and I guess he licked him.”

Before another term rolls around would like to add the following questions to the list:

There was a time when the standards of dress at leading Universities ran to corduroys and jerseys. The undergraduate today
is the best dressed man in all the country. Taste in shoes, for instance, is most exacting. The pattern of
the John Ward styles and the volume of the John Ward business prove it. John Ward men remember.

The John Ward representative displays in: No. 4 Georgia Hall January 20, 1923

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of '26, who constantly craves information. It is
our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial;
in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Second
STATE OF MIND

Bill—(reading paper) What you think of those bootleggers stealing the pickling juice off the stiffs down in Georgia?
Mac—Reminds me of a little poem I read the other day; went like this—
Bill—Say, wait a week!
Mac—(Triumphantly)—“Gin a body meet a body comin’ hame wi’ rye
Gin a body treat a body, need a body cry?
Every frisky lad has whiskey,
Nane, they say, ha’ve I;
Yet all the neebors smile on me
When comin’ hame wi’ rye!
Bill—Well that’s better than usual; your taste is improving.
Mac—Well, I hope that your taste in haberdashery will improve a bit then, just to keep in company.
Bill—Can your comment—but, I haven't time to keep up with all the fads and tidangos.
Mack—True, whence take my advice: When you are in need of raiment take thyself to a real good house and
let them help you. They know what’s what and will be only too glad to help you with your selections.
Bill—That’s true—perhaps you could suggest such a house.
Mack—Sure, glad to, Mellon’s in Charlotte is the place I have in mind; they always have stuff and are only
too glad to help you make a tasteful and correct selection.
Bill—Thanks a lot.—(Adv.)

(Acknowledgment is made to The Book of Smiles for “Bobby Burns of ’22” quoted above.)Psychological test for Freshmen: Who climbed
the Saturday Evening Post? Who are the pupils in your eyes? How high will Balcony have to go before he
bursts? How far is a mile down the road? Does night break when it falls? Is day destroyed when it
breaks? How fast would we have to drive to keep time from passing? The difference between a hairdresser and a
sculptor is that a hairdresser curls up and dyes while a sculptor makes faces and busts. This also reminds us
that the difference between a woman and an umbrella is that you can shut an umbrella.

It is rumored that Bascomb Sorrells plans to return to Davidson next year to specialize in Latin courses. He intimates
that he will understudy in Golf.

D. R. O. T. C. NEWS

It has been a question of some discussion among the authorities of the R. O. T. C. and the college
as to whether the winners in the rifle shoots should be given college recognition the same as other branches of
sport. This will be up for consideration in the immediate future. There is no doubt that there will be an
abundance of good marksmen unearthed in the trials and many have already shown their ability. It would reflect quite a
bit of credit upon Davidson should she put out a winning team.

Another honor that Davidson could procure is a company of the “Scabbard and Sheathe,” a national military fraternity. For its
organization, five cadet commissioned officers are required as members and as there is more than that number on the hill,
there should be no trouble in securing a company here. There are at the present time only three regiments in
the United States, the fourth one having been started. By applying now, Davidson could secure a company in this fourth
regiment. Major Hearn is anxious that this be done as it would result in more outside recognition for the college.

There has been a question of allowing all R. O. T. C. students to leave off their uniforms at the
recitation periods, the only requirement being that an increased pride be taken in their appearance during the drill periods. The
question will be open for discussion among the members of the R. O. T. C. and it will be decided
in the near future. The sponsors for the various companies have not been selected this year and it is hoped
that they will be chosen in time for the company competition drill which will be held on the 11th day
of April. The company that scores highest in the competitive drilling will receive the honor flag until the next year.

The Wednesday afternoon drill periods have been lately done away with but it is still a question as to whether
this will continue in effect or whether it will be recalled. After February 28th, it will be taken up with
the faculty and with the Senior class as to the advisability of extending the drill periods throughout the three days
or of having two hours on Wednesday. The general consensus of opinion is that the students will take more interest
in their drill work when there are shorter drill periods.

All examinations on R. O. T. C., both basic and advanced, will be held on Wednesday, 24th.

First Co-Ed—"Are you going to wear your sweater to the football game next Thursday?"
Smart Co-Ed—"I ain't going to wear nothin’ else.”
First Co-Ed—"Gracious!"—Kick-Off.

Misses Mary and Lyra Torrence spent several days in High Point last week.

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

Particulars? A Demonstration
The Remington Standard Portable Typewriter
W. J. Cooper
2 Watts

Leadership — CHERO-COLA
GRAPE-MELO
ORANGE-MELO
ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.

PIANOS
CHARLOTTE
"We Furnish Fraternity Rooms”
