THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

AS YOU WERE

This cut shows a Fraternity group of 1901. Three guesses as to who the most noted member of the group is.

COLUMBUS CITIZENS TENDER FAREWELL BANQUET TO DR. MUNROE

Dr. H. S. Munroe, '99, of Columbus, Ga., was given a farewell dinner recently by the medical profession of that city. Dr. Munroe is planning to move to Charlotte, N.C., and this banquet was given as a token of the esteem and affection of his medical friends. After a very interesting program had been given, Dr. Neal Kitchen presented the honor guest with a fine gold watch and chain, saying that it represented in a small way the warmness of his friendship, which in itself could not be measured, but which could serve as a reminder to him of his ever loyal friends in Columbus.

DAVIDSON ALUMNUS SURVIVES TOKIO DISASTER

When the U. S. S. President Pierce docked at San Francisco on September 24th, it carried among its passengers some 50 refugees fleeing from the terrible disaster which had swept the island of Japan, carrying death and destruction in its wake. In the number of these refugees was the name of Lex W. Klutz, of the class of 1915, of Davidson College. Mr. Klutz, who had been a professor in the American University in Beirut, Syria, was returning to his home in Chester, S. C., for a visit when he was caught by the earthquake in Yokohama. In the following disorder, he lost everything which he had with him, including some Syrian tablets which he was bringing to the Davidson Library.

The following afternoon, Mr. Klutz walked to Tokio to carry the first list of survivors which was broadcasted to the world. At Tokio, he met Frank Price, '15, who was in a position to supply him with money, and clothing was furnished him by Masonic friends, all stores being either closed or destroyed.

For three days following the quake, he walked through the many scenes of destruction, taking pictures of it which were published in the papers of Honolulu, where the President Pierce docked while coming to America, and in the papers of San Francisco immediately upon the arrival of the ship there.

HERE AND THERE AMONG THE ALUMNI

1871—Mr. Lawrence S. Holt, now a multimillionaire cotton dealer of Burlington, N. C., has made a deed of trust to the amount of $511,454, the income from which is to be distributed annually among a large number of churches and institutions. Among these are the Thompson Orphanage of Charlotte, all the churches of Burlington, the Children’s Home Society of Greensboro, and the Christian Orphanage at Elon College.

1884—Shepherd K. Nash is a member of the law firm of Harby, Nash and Hodges, of Sumter, S. C.

1906—Dr. and Mrs. B. R. Lacy, of Atlanta, Ga., announce the birth of a son on September 18th. Dr. Lacy graduated from Davidson in 1906.

1907—Rev. and Mrs. J. Edwin Hemphill recently lost their baby son, Charles Robert. The sympathy of their friends goes out to them in their bereavement.

1913—Carl L. Farran, of Eustace, Fla., was a visitor on the campus during the past week. Mr. Farran is in the automobile business.

1918—W. L. Douglass and Mrs. Douglas announce the birth of a daughter, June 4, 1923, who has been named Marilyn Elizabeth.

D. E. McCloy is at the head of a large mercantile business in Monticello, Ark. Mr. McCloy was married in June to Miss Virginia Ross, of Pittsburgh, Penna.

J. R. Woods was awarded the Hoge Fellowship at Union Seminary this past year.

1919—K. O. G. Lilly was awarded the Chas. D. Larus Fellowship at Union Theological Seminary.

1921—George E. Miley is now located in Winston-Salem, N. C., being connected with the Equitable Life Assurance Company.

J. C. McCaskill is in New York City studying at Columbia University, and at the same time is doing work in the Boys’ Department of the Y. M. C. A. of that city. His present address is 541 Lexington Ave.

1922—P. C. Bethea, who has during the summer been studying Group Insurance with

FEEDS? SEE W. B. BARNETTE AND CO.

We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

S. & W. CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty

Charlotte Winston-Salem Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

College Jewelry Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler - DAVIDSON, N. C.the Aetna Life Insurance Company, of Hartford, Conn., visited the college this past week en route to Atlanta, Ga., where he will be permanently located with the Aetna Insurance Company. J. H. McKeithan is superintendent of public schools of Wallace, N. C. Marshall W. Doggett, Jr., holds a responsible position with a large department store in Kingsport, Tenn. 

1925—W. C. Hale, Jr., ex-’25, is now connected with the Morristown Wholesale Grocery Co., Morristown, Tenn.

ALBERT S. MAXWELL, '09, EXPLORES WILDS OF BRAZIL

Mr. Albert S. Maxwell, who with his brother Herbert graduated from Davidson in 1909, and during their stay here were known as the “Gold Dust Twins,” has recently returned from a very perilous but successful exploration of the wilds of South America. His tour lasted over seven months, and during that time he traveled the entire width of Brazil and even penetrated Bolivia. He had an excellent opportunity to become acquainted at first hand with the aboriginal Indian inhabitants and with their customs. The first half of the dangerous, almost impossible, task was completed, and he had turned homeward, when he was attacked virulently by the severe malarial fever of north Brazil. He lost flesh, his hands seemed those of a dead man, and he lost so much strength that finally he could not continue his journey. His friends had to leave him to come down the river in a frail canoe guided by a negro. The journey was full of danger and difficulty. At times snags and hidden rocks threatened to overturn them. At other times wild Indians on the shore made it impossible to land and hang the hammocks for sleeping, or to prepare food. At last, however, the long journey of a month and a half was completed, and a once white, but now yellow man, almost a skeleton, and with the flesh almost dry on his bones, staggered into the little hospital at Matta Grossa, Brazil. The long-lost, noble missionary was safe, and has since recovered from his severe illness.

FACULTY OF DAVIDSON (Continued from page 1)

half years to work in, and they’ll capture the congregations of our churches. “Others this bunch come out to teach. Give them 12 years of agnostic will for the exploitation of their pet theories, and they will have captured the public schools of the United States.

Following Europe

“By the year 1930 we'll have a full crop of loose-jointed liberals, makeshift modernists and disjointed critics, that will soon put us right where Europe is today, with all its confusion, lawlessness and anarchy. When I was over there, I found it in Belgium, in Poland, in Germany, in Czecho-Slovakia—this hellish modernism and liberalism—unseating belief in everything good, both human and divine.

VOLUNTEER CLUB ADDS NEW MEMBERS TO RANKS

The main features of the Volunteer Band program last Sunday were three talks by students on Our Devotional Life. Hugh Wells spoke on Bible Study in connection with our devotional life, showing in what manner and how much time we should devote to it. He especially emphasized the importance of half an hour study each day. E. D. Witherspoon, speaking on The Prayer Life of Christ, cited and applied numerous examples to show that Christ needed prayer. If Christ needed prayer, then how much more we need it than He. The subject of the last speaker, Angus McBryde, was The Prayer Life of a Volunteer. McBryde emphasized the difference between praying and saying prayers. He spoke forcefully on the need and privilege of real prayer. The band has several new Volunteers added to its ranks. The attendance was good. The meeting was presided over by J. L. Green, with Bill Rice at the piano.

INFIRMARY PATRONAGE TAKES SUDDEN SLUMP

The patronage of the infirmary has taken a decided slump since last week, only three students having made short stays there in the past seven days. This decrease in sickness is good evidence that the new students, who were in the majority of those answering the sick call the first of the term, have become better adjusted to their environment. The infirmary roll for last week consists of one Sophomore, E. T. Buck, and two Freshmen, A. W. Alexander and J. W. Crinkley.

VICTROLAS

New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES LUDWIG DRUMS PLAYER PIANO ROLLS SHEET MUSIC Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. CHARLOTTE

A Fire-Prevention-Week Message

America loses $1,370,000 of her wealth and fifty of her citizens every day from the ravages of fire. Seventy-five per cent of this waste and slaughter can be eliminated through carefulness. What shall we do about it?

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Insurance Department McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. ('13): CHARLOTTE, N. C.