THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1923

Davidson College Magazine

NEW IDEAS NEW STORIES

Be Sure to Get Your Copy

ALUMNI NEWS

Watch for the 1922 Edition of Alumni News

W. Lovett Douglas, ex-'18, is located at 704 13th Street N., St. Petersburg, Fla., and is connected with the Lester
Furniture Company.

Dr. B. R. Lacy, D.D., '06, pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church at Atlanta, has been called to the pastorate
of the First Presbyterian Church at Danville, Va. Doctor Lacy has not yet announced his decision.

Dr. A. Ray Howland, '15, pastor of the Ormewood Presbyterian Church in Atlanta, preached on a recent Sunday evening on
“Young People’s Religion,” for the Atlanta Journal’s nation-wide broadcasting service.

Dr. James W. Gibbon, '14, of Charlotte, will be married to Miss Catherine Ottley Gilmer of the same city, in
the spring.

W. Page Harris, '20, who had to leave college in his senior year on account of his health, is now
located at Henderson, selling stocks and bonds for a Raleigh firm.

J. R. Minter, '13, is American Consul at Johannesburg, Africa.

Dr. H. R. Murchison, '93, was in Davidson a few days ago conferring with other members of his class which
will have its thirtieth reunion this year. Dr. Murchison is on the teaching staff of Columbia Theological Seminary.

Dr. Eugene Alexander, '12, of Raeford, N. C., has been called to the pastorate of the Second Church, Salisbury.

Dr. J. I. Yohannan, '11, is first lieutenant in the Navy Medical Corps, and is at present on the S.
S. Delaware, and may be reached in care of the Postmaster, New York City.

Henry H. Tarleton, ex-'22, was married to Miss Arthur Mae Young, of Charlotte, on January 23. He is in business
with Turner and Company, house furnishers, in Charlotte.

Dr. J. McLean Rogers, '13, and Mrs. Rogers sailed on January 14, for Korea, after a year's furlough spent in
Charlotte.

Dr. J. P. Munroe, '82, will make a trip to South America in company with a large number of physicians
during the spring months.

Dr. T. M. Stevenson, '12, has removed from Henderson, N. C. to Lowrysville, S. C.

Hugh Minter, ex-'16, is located at 1810 Bolton Street, Baltimore.

A great host of friends was shocked to hear of the death, on January 14, of Mr. J. Frank McCubbins,
of the Class of 1883. Mr. McCubbins was living at Salisbury, where he was a popular and influential citizen. He
had served for twenty years as clerk of the superior court of Rowan County, was a deacon in the First
Presbyterian Church, and was a member of several fraternal orders.

The current issue of The Union Seminary Review carries thoughtful articles from three Davidson alumni:
“The Spoken Messages of Paul,” B. R. Lacy, D.D., '06.
“Religious Impressions of Great Britain in 1922,” Edward Mack, D.D., '08.
“Christianity and Modern Spiritualism,” C. D. Holland, '10.

It is interesting to note, too, that Dr. W. T. Thompson, '06, is editor-in-chief of this Quarterly Review, and F.
E. Manning, '21, is business manager. On the editorial staff are E. G. Lilly, '19, and J. R. Woods, '18.

Dr. H. G. Cartledge, of Johns Hopkins, was recently elected elder in the Maryan Avenue Church, of which Dr. W.
G. McMillan is pastor. Doctor Cartledge will be pleasantly remembered as assistant professor of chemistry at Davidson.

Upon the shoulders of Edgar Sufts, '22, has fallen the mantle of his father’s work at Lee McCrary’s Institute and
Woodrow Wilson College.

In the announcement of speakers who will be on the program at the Eighth Biennial Layman’s Convention are the following
Davidson men: W.M. Fields, Egbert W. Smith, W. S. Thompson, and R. T. Hoyt. Church papers carry the news that
ten new members recently united with the church at Huntsville, Ala., of which N. G. Stevens is pastor. R. W.
Miles, Jr., Auburn, Ala., is a member of the committee of Home Missions for the Synod of Georgia. The Presbyterian
Church at Christiansburg, Va., recently celebrated the third anniversary with I. P. Johnson (Coach) as pastor. Membership in the church
has increased by 108, and there was an increase of 80 percent in the church budget.

D. C. E. TRAINING CLASS IS RECOGNIZED AUTHORITY

The Christian Endeavor Training Class of Davidson College contributed an important part to the material used in the compilation of
North Carolina Synod’s new 1923 “Handbook for Use in Sunday School and Young Peoples’ Work.” All the copy used in
the Christian Endeavor Department of this pamphlet, the editor of which is Dr. J. G. Garth, of Charlotte, was prepared
by the Davidson class. This recognition of the ability of the class, and of its authority in Christian Endeavor work,
is a well-deserved compliment to the members. The class is in its second year of work and now consists of
29 men. It is perhaps the only organization of its kind in Christian Endeavor, or a sort of super-Christian Endeavor
Society. Meetings are held every Sunday afternoon, and at each meeting, special phases of Christian Endeavor work are taken up.
W. Arnett Gamble, Jr., who has later been made editor of the Young Peoples Department of The Presbyterian Standard, is
the leader. This paper comments on the value of the handbook to the church in carrying on young peoples’ work.
All of the different departments of the book have been prepared by experts in their respective lines, and the fact
that the Christian Endeavor Training Class of Davidson College has been given an important section of the work shows the
high estimation that is placed upon the work and ability of the Davidson organization. The following are some of the
topics discussed in the handbook by the Davidson class: “Qualities of Leadership,” “How to Organize a Christian Endeavor Society,” “Christian
Endeavor Organization,” “Christian Endeavor Expert Classes,” “Tonic for a Sick Society.”

Off’n ’Em For Life

Times were hard and Mrs. Johnson was endeavoring to get her lord and master to enter some gainful occupation. “It's
a good job,” she argued. “Four and a half dollars for eight hours a day.” “Who dis man, tryin’ to
throw money at me dat way?” “Tom Wilson.” “Tom Wilson? No, ma’am; somebody else, not me. Ah done work two
years in France for dat Wilson family.” — Legion Weekly.

CAROLINA HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL"
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.

Agents Wanted

If You Have Money, We Want It.
If You Need Money, We Have It.
W. E. PRICE
Morris Plan Bank
Winston-Salem, N. C.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Did you ever think about Fire Insurance, Life Insurance, Accident and Health Insurance? We write these lines and they cost
money which is supplied through your bank account. You pay all bills, secure against FORGERY?

McAlister Carson, Manager
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
On the Square
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
