DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 = IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer Today—1 Page

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 26, 1923

A. M. HILLOUSE

Albert Hillhouse, of Waynesboro, Georgia, was elected president of the student body for the collegiate year 1923-24, at a recent
meeting of that body.

Since his entrance at Davidson College in the fall of 1920, Hillhouse has been prominent in the various activities of
the college; in the literary realm, the work of the Y. M. C. A., and in the affairs of the
student body.

He first came into prominence in his freshman year—winning prominence in his studies. At the end of that year he
was elected president of the sophomore class for 1921-22. This office he filled with exceptional diligence, guiding the class of
’24 through a prolonged period of stormy weather.

During the present year Hillhouse has served as secretary of the Y. M. C. A., and as assistant manager of
football. He is also a member of the intercollegiate debating team which will meet Trinity on April 27th. He was
elected manager of the football team for the coming year, but was forced to resign to take up the strenuous
duties of president of the student body.

Albert is recognized as an able and competent leader and one that assures success in student government for the coming
year. Behind him is the entire student body; before him, unlimited achievement.

Musical Comedy Farce Presented For High School Benefit

Mr. and Mrs. Polly Tickk, a musical comedy in three acts, was presented by local talent in Shearer Hall Friday
evening, April 20th. The play was a supposed representation of married life and courtship in the year 1975, the relative
situations of men and women being exactly opposite from what they are now. Man was the housekeeper and woman the
provider, man the demure flapper and woman the burning lover.

The prologue to the play was a flower garden scene in which Dame Fashion prophesied to Father Time the various
types and tendencies of the future, and at each appearance.

The first act was laid in the home of the Polly Tickk family. It showed Mr. Polly Tickk as the
crushed and hen-pecked housekeeper while Mrs. Polly Tickk was a lady of business whose time was so taken up with
lodge meetings and politics that she had no time to stay at home and look after her husband. Billy Lawson
and Daisy Anne Gray, a loving but unmarried couple, were introduced in this act.

At the opening of the second act, the audience discovered Mr. Polly Tickk and his hen-pecked friends doing the various
stunts of regular spring cleaning. At the suggestion of Billy Lawson, a plan was formed to revolutionize the situation, and
for the men once more to don the traditional pants. The act closed with a quarrel between Daisy and Billy.
Billy stood firm for his rights to wear pants and be a real man.

The scene in the third act was at the voting precinct. The woman's club was listening to a lecture on
the pants problem by Senator Zella Highbrow, but who in reality was Billy Lawson impersonating the senator. In the midst
of the speech, the true senator came in and revealed the whole plot. Before the woman's club could do anything,
all the henpecked husbands entered wearing pants and calling for the right to vote. The act closed with a love
scene between Billy and Daisy. Daisy was at last won over to Billy’s side and the pair decided to enter
the bonds of matrimony on the old-fashioned basis.

The cast was as follows:
Prologue: Father Time, W. F. Baker; Dame Fashion, Miss Mary Thompson; Up-to-Date Girl of 1975, Miss Mary Hall; the Girl
of 1850, Miss Ruth Henderson; the Ruffled Dude of 1975, H. G. Fenton; the Male Flapper of 1975, Mr. Elliott
Haney.

Cast of Characters:
Mr. Polly Tickk........Mr. A. M. Martin
Mrs. Polly Tickk........Mrs. R. A. Moore
Billy Lawson........Mr. E. T. Woolfolk
Daisy Anne Gray..Miss Elizabeth Cranford
Sullivan O’Brien........Mrs. Bridget O’Brien...Jessamine Brown
Senator Zella Highbrow...Miss Susie Brady
Mr. Eva Edwards........Mr. A. V. Gibson
Mrs. Eva Edwards......Miss Letitia Currie
Mr. Edna Ray...........Mr. E. D. Brown
Mrs. Edna Ray......Miss Grace Goodrum
Mr. Susan Johnson.......Mr. W. H. Fitts
Mrs. Susan Johnson....Miss Sara Barnette
Mr. Birdie Mae Harris..Mr. W. J. Howell
Mrs. Birdie Mae Harris........Miss Lily Henderson
Mr. Mary Lamb......Mr. John D. Laws
Mrs. Mary Lamb......Miss Elizabeth Potts

CHILDREN OF TICKK—H. T. Bramlett, Sara Elizabeth Jetton, Walter Brown, Mary Grace Brown, and Jennie McLean

CHORUS—Misses Charlotte Hunter, Lily Martin, Virginia Shumaker, Elizabeth Fry, Adele Shelton, Ellen Torrence, Kitty and Katharine Porter.

The play was a great success. It was well attended and was thoroughly enjoyed by all. It was put on
by the Wayne P. Sewell Producing Co. of Atlanta and was directed by Miss Mary Beran.

SUFFRAGETTES HOLD SWAY IN POLITICS WHILE HUSBANDS DARN SOCKS AND SWEEP

On Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday of next week the Wildcat baseball nine will be put to the most severe test
of the season when they journey to theUpper end of the season when they journey to the upper end state
to play three games with N. C. State, Trinity, and Elon. The state championship is going to be determined by
the results of this series, at least as far as Davidson is concerned. Davidson can win the right to claim
the championship by defeating State in Raleigh, and by outscoring Trinity at Durham. Elon is out of the running, not
having won a game in the State. During the past week, the Wildcats have experienced their most successful week of
the campaign, downing Wofford twice, overwhelming Elon on Saturday, and licking V. P. I. Monday. Two or three changes in
the line-up have strengthened the team fifty percent. Batting and fielding averages have risen and the pitchers have reached mid-season
form. To date, Trinity looks like a real champion. She has won every game played in the State and has
defeated all outsiders except Auburn, losing to the Plainsmen by a close score. Her team is well balanced and the
Wildcats will have a scrap to put the Methodists out of the running.

RED AND BLACK NINE EMB ON TOUR

State has a mighty fine team and it will take good pitching and plenty of hitting to win. However, Davidson
lost the other game on an unfortunate error and it is time for the Wildcats to get the breaks, if
any breaks are needed to put over the next win. Elon has nothing save a good bunch of swatsmiths. Capt.
Pat’s crew fathomed their pitchers in easy style last Saturday and can do it again. Summing up the data on
the five leading teams, it looks like Trinity ranks first and State, Carolina, Davidson, and Wake Forest follow in the
order named. State has won every game but one, but that defeat by Carolina puts them in second place. Carolina
has only won half of their games but their victories over State and Davidson give them third place. Wake Forest
has lost to both State and Trinity and cannot hold any claims. Trinity has beaten Carolina but has not met
State and with a victory over the Techmen will only have Davidson as a dark spot, provided our predictions materialize.
Carolina will have a good claim provided they defeat Trinity and State will practically cinch things with victories over Trinity
and Davidson. Davidson, with victories over State and Trinity, can come home certain of at least a knot for first
place.

R. O. T. C. NEWS

The company competition which was scheduled to take place two weeks ago is to be held Wednesday, April 25. The
teams which were selected in the tryouts some weeks ago will represent each company in the different events. This competition
between the companies is taking the place of the Field Day previously held between the different classes. After a recess
on the rifle range, the regular firing will be started again this week. Quite a number of men have already
qualified in the different positions and these will be exempted from further firing. All other men will be expected to
take their assigned work on the range. The class work for the remainder of the year will be devoted to
the study of Scouting and the Advance Guard. Examples will be shown and problems presented at the regular drill periods.
The Battalion will continue the same movements for the rest of the year and on the last Wednesday, a Battalion
parade will take place, followed by the announcement of the commissions for next year.

Delightful Three-Act Play Offered by Queens Players

(Continued from Page 1)

and forbade their children to communicate in any way. They built a wall between the two estates. As young people
will, they met every day, and of course, fell desperately in love, but were at a loss to find a
way to secure the consent of their parents to the match. The old people, however, were not to be defeated.
They staged a fake abduction, and the lover was allowed to rescue his loved one from the seeming kidnappers. The
young lovers discovered the plot after it had been executed and the young man left home seeking true romance, thinking
he had been made ridiculous. He found to his sorrow that romance eluded him and he returned a much chastened
man. His old love returned and the young people were married and lived happily ever after. The moral of the
play is that romance is at home if it can only be found. It also showed that love is to
be had if only the opposition of parents can be had.

Miss Meme Hampton was an extremely sweet and lovable mistress. Her acting was exceptional. She had some hard scenes to
perform but always came through in fine style. She was probably the star of the evening. Miss Cornelia Wearn made
a very handsome and ardent lover. His, or her, sword play was excellent. Miss Beulah Holmes also had a difficult
part and came through without a falter. The play as a whole was exceptionally good. The whole cast went through
the entire performance without a hitch, and the audience thoroughly enjoyed every act. Misses Stone, King, and McClure, who managed
the play, deserve a great deal of credit for the manner in which it was staged. These ladies have spent
a great deal of their time directing and coaching the characters and merit much of the audience’s appreciation for the
manner in which the actresses interpreted their parts.

OPENING! ON FRIDAY, APRIL 27th

A FULL LINE OF SHOES AND CLOTHING, HATS, CAPS, SHIRTS, TIES AND EVERYTHING FOR YOUNG MEN

GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
Knox Building

JUST ARRIVED—
NEW LOT of black satin strap Pumps
THE LATEST THING in patent strap Pumps
FULL LINE of colors in the famous Cadet Hosiery
NEW LINE of trunks and suitcases

M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
