4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
LISTON D. ELKINS

Business Manager
REGINALD L. PRICE

Staff

Editorial
C. M. S. McILWAINE - Managing Editor
J. A. LAKE - Assistant Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD - Editor
I. B. PRICE - Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN - Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY - Athletic Editor
W. M. COX - Associate Editor
W. M. HESTON - Alumni Editor
PEANUT PARCHER - Editor

Business Staff
ALLISON - Advertising
K. S. McALPIN - Subscription
J. R. BRIGGS - Advertising
W. H. CROMWELL - Bookkeeper
P. J. STORY - Subscription
A. M. HURD - Department
J. M. GARRISON - Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN, Manager
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB

EDITORIAL

E PAUCIS UNUM

Many men and women attend college or university because it is the stylish, the customary or the proper thing to do. Others attend because there is nothing else to do. There is another group, however, made up of students who desire to equip themselves for service in life. To which group do you belong? Are you a fugitive from the ranks of service, hiding under the cover of college? Are you the unfortunate victim of a fashion-plate mother or father who would die of shame if the son and heir were not surface-veneered in college? Or do you belong to the group desirous of the acquisition of knowledge and a deeper, ingrained polish that fits one for fruitful service?

Colleges are too crowded and every year many applications are turned away from college doors. If anyone should be deprived of a higher education it should be that person who is merely veneering. Do you deem yourself worthy of the place you have secured in your college, or should you give place to one of the many applicants who were denied entrance last year? Your four years of preparation must be made to count for something; else you have stolen from some other fellow an opportunity for success in life. You may be interested in one or more of a varied line of studies or activities, but wherever your interest and enthusiasm may be directed, it is your duty to make it count for something that will be of value to you in later life. You are one of the chosen. You were regarded as possessing eminent qualities pointing toward a life of service to mankind, self, and God, when you were accepted as a college student. Will you be true to the trust placed in you?

MAKE IT UNANIMOUS

On Saturday after the Wake Forest game in Charlotte, a man who played on one of the leading teams of the South for four years, and who has acted as official, and followed football for a number of years, made this statement: “I have followed football for the past twenty-five years, as player, official, etc., and I have never seen such a fine exhibition of pep and sportsmanship as you Wildcats have shown this afternoon. I congratulate you.”

The Wildcats lost to the Baptists from Wake Forest, and they lost fairly, fighting to the last play, but from the standpoint of the Davidsonian there was a victory won on Wearn Field. It was not won on the gridiron, it is true, but this conflict was fought in the bleachers where the Davidson student body was seated. It was a battle between enthusiasm and listlessness, between pep and indifference, between spirit and apathy. And the laurels went to the Wildcat Spirit. At no time during the contest did the spirit of the men from Davidson lag, and at no time did those men feel that the game was lost. The crucial moments when the Wildcat line could not hold, and when the breaks favored the Baptists, served only to add stamina to the spirit of the Wildcats.

There were approximately five hundred men in the stands, and about two hundred and fifty of this number gave all they had in spirit for their team. The other two hundred and fifty depended upon their fellow students to win the victory. The words spoken by the official at the Wake Forest game should be a challenge to every man registered at Davidson to take an active part in the spirit of the game. If two hundred and fifty men can merit the praise of the onlookers, five hundred men can win their hearts. In addition, they can win the confidence of the team they are backing. Ask any member of a college team what “confidence of the student body” means to him. His answer will send pangs of remorse and shame through your whole body if you are one of the two hundred and fifty men who were silently watching the Wake Forest game.

Davidson has a spirit that makes of a little school a great school. Never let it die! Every man for his team and for Davidson!

Mrs. Smith, supervisor of dormitories, appreciates the co-operation of the student body in maintaining comfortable, sanitary dormitory conditions. The student body has the same appreciation for the faithful efforts of Mrs. Smith, and every man on the campus is grateful to her for her interest in making dormitory life more cheerful and home-like.

WILDCAT NET MEN SWEEP MEET WITH WAKE FOREST

(Continued from page 1)

to keep the ball low and Agelasto had no more chances of hitting the ball with the peculiar flat chop which he had been using to advantage on high bounds. His game lost its sting and he was forced from the offensive to the defensive. Harry's deep shots found the corners and the back line and he ran the set out with little trouble. The set ended with the score 6-4, Agelasto getting but one more game. Price continued his driving tactics in the second set, whipping the ball from one side of the court to the other and occasionally going to the net to end a point. Agelasto managed to lift one game in which he came to the forecourt and dropped several low volleys over the barrier. It seemed that Harry had taken the bit in his teeth and he raced through to a 6-1 win. Price showed distinct superiority on all strokes, his service and ground strokes being particularly good. His game was marred by erratic playing at the opening. Agelasto proved a worthy opponent and put up a closer fight than the score would indicate. His change of pace at times bothered Price, and a little more speed would have made him dangerous.

T. F. Staley and C. M. Townsend staged the No. 2 match on the North court. The Wildcat man was bothered by a game leg and he played the last two sets on little more than grit. The two players were about evenly matched on the service and in the air but Staley had the edge on ground strokes. He mixed cuts and lofts with such success that it bewildered his opponent. Staley got off to a good start and annexed the first set 6-1. Here, he let down a bit and Townsend pressed his advantage. Before T. F. could recover the Wake Forest player had won it 6-3. After a short rest Staley brought out the old Wildcat come-back and took the third set and the match on sheer ability to keep the ball in play.

In the third and fourth matches Mae Beall defeated D. W. Bland on the center court, 6-4, and 6-0, while Jim Trotter won from B. F. Slate on the West center, 6-3, 6-3. The Davidson players held the upper hand at all times and were kept from displaying brilliant tennis only by the slowness of their opponent's play. Mace Beall played in his usual style and was never forced to extend himself against Bland. Tim Trotter, a new man on the D.C. team, performed like a veteran. His forceful drives kept his man on the defensive.

Combined in the doubles, the Wildcats scored as decisively as they had in the singles. Beal and Trotter, with Jim's service and Mae’s net work, did not fail in defeating Bland and Slate to the tune of 6-4, 6-4. The last match, the No. 1 doubles with Price and Staley against the Agelasto-Townsend combination, developed some of the best tennis of the afternoon. The Wildcats played together splendidly and held their rivals on the defensive at all times. But the 6-0, 6-1 Davidson win tells nothing of the brilliant play. The ball sizzled back and forth in long rallies time and again. However, the Wildcats always were able to bring forth the deciding stroke.

The Wake Forest team did not seem discouraged by their defeat and Manager H. B. Edwards hopes to bring them against the Wildcat racketteers again in the spring. The various matches were ably refereed by Vic Brown, C. W. McCrary and D. J. Kelly.

The summary:

Singles:
H. Price d. A. Agelasto, 6-4, 6-1.
T. F. Staley d. C. M. Townsend, 6-1, 3-6, 6-2.
Mae Beall d. Bland, 6-4, 6-0.
J. Trotter d. Slate, 6-4, 6-4.

Doubles:
Price-Staley d. Agelasto-Townsend, 6-0, 6-1.
Beall-Trotter d. Bland-Slate, 6-4, 6-4.

PANDEINIC PROGRAM SHOWS PREPARATION AND STUDY

Members of the Pandeinic Literary Society enjoyed a very interesting program at the meeting on October 20th. The subject for debate was, Resolved, That State Censorship of Moving Pictures Should be Adopted by the United States. The affirmative side, upheld by L. P. Cox and J. Thompson, received the vote of the judges against the negative side, supported by F. T. Franklin and M. C. Stith, though the vote of the house was in favor of the negative. Stith showedVery conclusively, the absolute necessity for a change in the taste and demand of the public theatre-goers before any betterment of the moral of pictures could be realized.

E. N. McCutcheon delivered a very enjoyable declamation. The entire program showed results of thorough and careful preparation by those taking part.

DR. JOHN W. RUSKIN
(Continued from page 1)

Reaches 80 or more below zero, while their summer temperature is around 30 degrees. In contrast to the small ice houses were shown the enormous blocks of ice floating in the chilly waters. They indeed seemed like mountains, and considering that four-fifths of a berg is below the surface of the water, it is difficult to conceive of the bulk of one of them.

The pictures next jumped to India, the land of the tiger, the elephant, the monkey, the snake, and the ant. The most wonderful and thrilling picture of the evening was the hunting of tigers from elephant back, in which several fairly close-ups of the hunted tiger were shown. To get these pictures was not only hazardous in the extreme but a most unusual and generally considered impossible task. Some fine views of the wild elephants were given and in this too the task was one requiring both skill and patience. The monkeys, which are one of the sacred animals of India, were seen in their temples where hundreds of them live. A fight between a monkey and a rooster was likewise very interesting. The deadly pythons were a source of interest and awe as they were shown perfectly by the native charmers. The ants which destroy much vegetation in India proved to be much larger than the largest of our ants. The ant-eater that is so valuable to the farmers of this land proved to be a queer-looking beast about the size and in general appearance resembling a dog about as much as anything else.

As one approached the Ganges River, the large crowds on its banks and in the water were accounted for by the fact that this river is considered sacred by the Indians and everyone comes to bathe in it. Some mothers of certain tribes even throw their young babies into it and let them drown to ensure eternal life for them as they believe. The ashes of the dead, which are cremated, are thrown into the Ganges also. Pictures were next shown of the priests of the native religions in their tattooed and painted make-ups which are used by every caste as distinguishing marks. The devotion of these peoples to their faith was proved in the example of men drinking the dirty water from a hole in the pavement since they were taught this was a means of acquiring merit with the gods.

The teak wood, which is the hardest of all woods, was seen in its native forests and in the lumber camps of the South Sea Islands. Due to the number and quality of snakes that make their homes in these forests, this is an especially dangerous business and many lives are lost each year in this way. The elephants are used mainly in drawing the huge trunks from the forests and in handling them in the camps. In fact, the modern crane gives place to the elephant with his mighty strength.

SUNDAY BIBLE CLASSES HELD IN DORMITORIES

The truth of this statement is certified by the large number of students who attended the meetings of the class on each floor of every building last Sunday morning at 10 o'clock. It is estimated that one-third of the student body was present at the various meetings. This fact is gratifying to those in charge, and an incentive to make the classes even more interesting than they already are. These classes are being conducted primarily for the students’ benefit. The name “Bible Classes” may convey the impression that the Bible is the book which is discussed. However, it is not a strict study of the Bible, but takes up the problems of the student just before and after he enters college. Bible references are used in applying them to the life of the student. The many problems that sometimes face a student merit a great deal of discussion. The whole thought of the class is to be of benefit to the student, and this seems to be one of the best ways.

Professor Fleagle meets the leaders of the classes every Wednesday night at 9:30. He is proving to be a very efficient instructor. In addition to meeting the leaders each Wednesday night, Professor Fleagle also conducts a Bible class in Spanish on Sunday morning at the same time as the other classes. Visitors are always welcomed at the meeting of the leaders and at the Spanish Bible Class. The only change in leaders, as published in last week's Davidsonian, is that P. C. Henderson is leader of the class on the second floor of West Dormitory instead of Vic Brown.

The committee on invitation, under the leadership of Harry Price, lined up many of the students for the classes. Some of them might have been missed. The committee and leaders urge everyone to be present at the meeting. The student body is behind the classes.

CAPTAIN WEEMS GIVES GRAPHIC PICTURE
(Continued from page 1)

The cadets are required to attend divine services. About ten percent go to the Catholic Chapel, all others to the Cadet Chapel. Captain Weems continued by saying that West Point has a cosmopolitan student body in the matter of religion—Mohammedans, Jews, Mormons, Protestants, Catholics—all denominations being represented. No man is forced to attend services contrary to his beliefs but everyone worships in his chosen faith. On Sunday morning the cadets, in white uniform, march to chapel where an inspiring sermon is preached by the Chaplain, usually the best chaplain in the U. S. Army. A cadet wishing to attend church with his mother or sweetheart may go to chapel for communion early in the morning and return to enjoy the company of his lady, perhaps to take a walk with her down Flirtation Walk.

The second phase of West Point religious life as pointed out by Capt. Weems is the Cadet Y. M. C. A. As at Davidson, every cadet is ex-officio a member of the “Y” and is privileged to attend the services held on Sunday evening after supper. At these services a talk is made by the chaplain, some visiting speaker, or one of the officers, the latter often taking advantage of this occasion to present the merits of their particular branch of Army service. In connection with the Y. M. C. A., Bible classes are held every Sunday. In 1915 there were 250 men enrolled in these classes, including every creed and sect. So tactfully are the classes conducted, however, that no friction arises with regard to creed.

Capt. Weems spoke of the questions which are usually asked a plebe entering West Point. Usually the first ones are, Who are you? Where are you from? What was your previous training? and Are you a Hell-dodger? The last question is seldom answered in the negative, proving the scarcity of agnostics and infidels at West Point.

As the last and perhaps the greatest religious influence at West Point, the speaker told of a Bible Class conducted for years by the late Miss Anna Warner, who lived on Constitution Island, opposite the campus. Cadets spent many pleasant Sunday afternoons paddling a canoe across to the Island and sitting in Miss Warner's class, while this lady spoke in a very forceful way on helpful Bible lessons. Miss Warner always ended her talks with some sweet remark to drive home the point made, such as “Isn't it sweet to have such promises as these given us in the Bible?” Miss Warner was spoken of as one of the best friends the Cadets ever had.

In conclusion, Capt. Weems spoke of the inspiring influence of our flag. To quote his exact words: “Hovering over both the grounds and the buildings is the influence of the flag. As a cadet sees it floating from its tall white staff, somehow it has come to have a different meaning from the days when he was a care-free civilian. It seems to him to possess a personality of which he was never before aware. He feels for it a real reverence, because he is conscious of being in the presence of something big, as if beholding the whole power of a nation. He sees in it the emblem of the country’s sovereignty and the symbol to which he has pledged his life’s service. Mingled with his feeling of reverence is his personal affection. Day after day he has watched it silhouetted against the sky and has felt the thrill of patriotism when it was being lowered at retreat to the accompaniment of The Star-Spangled Banner.”

MINISTERIAL BAND TAKES OVER DEPUTATION WORK

The Ministerial Band is setting out to do a great work this year in the deputation field. Upwards of 60 Presbyterian ministers in this section of North Carolina have been corresponded with and results of the correspondence are beginning to come in. Last Sunday three deputations were sent out. D. B. Walthall and L. L. Peck conducted services at Hopewell Church, near Huntersville, and A. N. Moffett and S. F. Bryant preached at Gilwood. M. C. Stith filled the pulpit at Shearer. The Band has secured eight deputations for this month.

On these deputations, the ministerial students present the need, call, and opportunities for service in the ministry. These talks, presented primarily to and in the interest of the young people of the church, are peculiarly appropriate in coming from young men who have given their lives to whole-time Christian service and who can still attack the problems of life from the young person’s point of view. Moreover, the deputations are of great value in the strengthening of the convictions of those who speak. The band, for this reason also, is making an es-
(Continued on page 5)