THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

SATURDAY 7:15 P. M.

J. Chipman Elected to Succeed Heston as Editor

Heston Resigns from Position as Editor of Quips and Cranks

Through the ill fortune of Bill Heston’s late sickness, it has become necessary that he retire from the position of
Editor-in-Chief of our important college publication, the Quips and Cranks, and of course, it becomes necessary that this organ of
the student body place at its head another strong and substantial leader, which has been done. The annual staff voted
that Heston’s successor should be Don Chipman.

A great amount of the work had already been accomplished before Bill was taken ill, and done in excellent shape.
As the work passes into Chipman’s hands, he will find it much easier than if he had started at the
beginning. It is expected that Chipman will handle the annual this year and make a name for himself because he
has had a good deal of experience along this line. In order to fill the position of literary editor, which
Chipman formerly occupied, it was necessary to elect a suitable man who was readily found in the person of Albert
Lake. It is a certainty that he will fill this position most satisfactorily and make this department of the annual
the best that it has been.

Fresh to Make Debut in N. C. Forensic Circles

Triangular Debate Arranged With Carolina and Wake Forest

This year will mark the entrance of Davidson College Freshmen debaters into intercollegiate contests. Davidson is to take Trinity’s place
in the annual Triangular Debate which in former years has been between Wake Forest, Carolina, and Trinity. If the new
organization is satisfactory this year, it will become permanent.

Every member of the Freshmen class is privileged to take part in the preliminaries scheduled for next February. All who
have any ability in this line of work are urged to try for the team. Six men will be chosen,
three for the affirmative and three for the negative. The negative team of each school debates in foreign territory while
the affirmatives remain at their own college.

Although plans for selection of topics for these debates have not been definitely decided upon, they will probably be chosen
by each of the three colleges sending to the executive committee two subjects for debates. These must be in by
December 1. Ten days later, the two which are chosen by the committee will be announced.

Bachelors Installed as Phi Gamma Delta Chapter

Many Prominent Men in the South Present at Installation

On last Saturday, the Bachelors Club of Davidson College was merged into the Fraternity of Phi Gamma Delta as the
Delta Kappa chapter of the Fraternity and its sixty-fifth undergraduate chapter. All of the chapters of the Fraternity in the
South, both active and inactive, were represented, with the exception of the chapter at the University of Texas. Twenty-one active
members and twenty-two alumni members were initiated.

Among the prominent men in the Fraternity who were here for the installation ceremonies were G. F. Snyder, National Secretary;
Philip E. Lyon, Field Secretary; C. J. Wilkinson, Editor of the Fraternity Magazine; Hon. John L. Rendleman of Salisbury, N.C.;
Dandridge Spottswood of Petersburg, Va.

Among the delegates from other chapters were: Frank Hardy and O. T. Shropshover, from the University of Alabama; M. D.
Jarvis and F. B. Mayes from the University of Tennessee; D. I. Mahood, Harriss Davenport, H. G. Biers, from the
University of Virginia; H. G. Chesley, A. H. Haynes, B. F. Broach, from the University of Richmond; C. S. Heilig
and P. W. Mullins, from Washington and Lee; A. C. Thurman, from Dartmouth; Bert Cunningham, from Illinois Wesleyan; and Jules
E. Welch, from Sewanee.

The active members initiated into Delta Kappa Chapter were: D. J. Chipman, W. T. Jones, A. C. Keels, I. I.
Boushee, R. I. Stowe, J. A. Lake.

DISTINCTIVE PICTURES CORPORATION presents GEORGE ARLISS in "The Green Goddess" with Alice Joyce, David Powell, and Harry T. Morey

The Biggest Picture of the Season. Don’t Miss It. Admission 25c. “Bring a chair”

"The Green Goddess"

That highly melodramatic story “The Green Goddess,” by William Archer, has been transferred to the screen and with George Arliss
starring will be shown here Saturday night. As a play, “The Green Goddess” enjoyed a run of two years at
the Booth Theatre, New York, being one of the most successful stage offerings of the past decade. It is now
meeting with equal success in London. The picture version has had a record-breaking run at the Sam H. Harris Theatre,
New York, equalling in every way its popularity as a play. The sets for this photoplay are said to be
unequalled for splendor and the most elaborate ever constructed in an Eastern studio.

In support of Mr. Arliss in “The Green Goddess” is a distinguished cast. In the principal feminine role is the
always gorgeous Alice Joyce. Incidentally, this appearance marks Miss Joyce’s return to the screen after several years’ absence. David Powell,
remembered chiefly for his remarkable work in support of Mae Murray in “On With the Dance,” has a wonderful part,
as has Harry T. Morey, the former Vitagraph star. Others in the cast are Jetta Goudal, Ivan Simpson, and William
Worthington. The direction of “The Green Goddess” was in the hands of Sidney Olcott who acted in a similar capacity
for Marion Davies in “Little Old New York.” Forest Halsey, famous magazine writer and novelist, adapted the play to the
screen. Oriental details were personally supervised by Roshanara, famous interpreter of East Indian Dances.

WHY WORRY?

The print of “Why Worry,” the latest Harold Lloyd picture, which we had booked for December 1st, was burned in
a theatre fire in Greenville, S. C., and therefore we won't get to see this picture until after the Holidays.
However, we were fortunate in securing Lloyd’s other new picture “Safety Last” for showing next week, and if you haven’t
seen this one, you don’t want to miss it. Those who have seen it before will be there of course.
It is full of thrills as well as being about as funny as anything you ever witnessed.

GOLDEN RULE DAY TO BE OBSERVED BY TOWN

New York, Nov. 18—Woodrow Wilson's Sunday dinner on December 2nd will consist of beans, corn grits, and soup. Mr. Wilson
pledged himself and his household to partake of this frugal meal, the Near East Relief announced today, in observance of
Golden Rule Day arranged by the organization in its campaign for funds to feed Near East orphans. The difference in
cost between the typical orphans’ menu and the usual meal will be contributed to the food fund.

The above news article appears Monday in practically every newspaper in the country that is a member of the Associated
Press. The article explains itself, and the campaign being put on by the Near East Relief committee is meeting with
the co-operation and backing of the greatest leaders of America, and some of the largest organizations. Calvin Coolidge, President of
the United States, has commended the committee for its work, and is backing this movement.

Plans are under way to get Davidson to observe this Golden Rule Sunday, on December 2nd. Mr. Williams, “Y” secretary,
is general head of the work, and a committee from the Christian Endeavor Training Class is working with him. The
plan is to have a simple meal on that Sunday, instead of the usual dinner, the difference in cost to
go to the Near East Relief. Davidson will be asked to observe this.

GLEE CLUB SCHEDULES (Continued from page 1)

The date set for the major debates is April 11, 1923. The Symphony Orchestra will be regarded as one of
the biggest features of the well-balanced program. In addition to the choral and solo numbers, the club boasts three orchestras
that may well be matched with the best instrumental musicians ever produced in college circles.1. Green, M.S. Beall, Orchestra was
organized last year and is D. F. Mallery, R. W. Walker, I. R. Montgomery, I. L. Morrison, B. I. Hastie,
E. A. L. O'Neal, A. S. Jones, D. G. Wilson, J. I. Moore, I. B. Huie, W. Sappenfield, H. H.
Lindamood, and T. G. Coltrane. Alumni members initiated were: W. Lingle, F. I. Baker, I. B. McKeithen, A. T. Cashion,
I. A. Nash, M. R. Doubles, M. A. Siske, L. P. Good, E. T. Woolfolk, M. B. Foil, W. H.
Moore, J. G. Richards, M. M. Erwin, W. H. Miley, W. E. Covington, C. H. Long, D. M. Chalmers, John
M. Gaston, F. P. Hall, and R. D. Hall.

The Jazz Orchestra has operated as a unit for the past two years and its novelty hits will score before
the most critical audiences. In its personnel are found several musicians of Southern jazz fame. They jazz their way straight
into the hearts of their hearers. The string orchestra has scored one of the biggest hits in the performances to
date. They have been encored repeatedly and may be relied upon to promote the success of the Glee Club.

To break the monotony of an entire evening of music, a special number has been arranged, the leading character being
portrayed by Mr. Gallagher, of Davidson, the William Jennings Coolidge of the colored race, one of the most prominent figures
in the campus life of Davidson. The quartet will take the stage on two occasions. Their repertoire is composed of
novelty songs and ballads, their two most popular numbers being chosen from the class of negro lullabies. Judging from rumors
on the campus, the Glee Club will be heard by a close approximation of 100 percent of the student body.
The Friday night performance will probably be the only opportunity for the Davidsonians to hear their own Glee Club, an
organization which is attracting broad attention throughout the state.

DAVIDSON R. O. T. C. UNIT PRAISED BY N. C. GOVERNOR: The four companies of the Davidson R. O. T.
C. battalion, as a part of the celebration of the eighty-sixth anniversary of Davidson College, the opening of the Davidson
Highway, and Armistice Day combined, passed in review before Governor Morrison, on November 12th. Captain Hearn, in speaking of the
review, stated that it was one of the most orderly and well-executed reviews ever undertaken by the Davidson R. O.
T. C. unit. In fact, the battalion, as it swung into column of platoons, looked so well trained that Governor
Morrison wanted to know from what camp the soldiers hailed. When told that the battalion was made up of Davidson
students, the Governor was amazed and, speaking frankly, said he did not know that Davidson had so many well-trained men.
An order, addressed to the R. O. T. C. unit by Captain Hearn, congratulating the students, has been posted. Captain
Hearn says that the spirit of Davidson College was shown by the fact that not a single man was absent
without authority. He stated further that the soldierly appearance and splendid exhibition of the students was worthy of great praise.
While the four companies were covering themselves with praise by their creditable work, the band was also very active. They
not only played an important part in making the celebration at Davidson a success, but also aided materially in making
a success of the Charlotte celebration. A letter has been received from Mr. Paul R. Younts, the chairman of the
Armistice Day Committee of Charlotte, in which he expressed his deep appreciation of the aid the band rendered. He praised
very highly the manner and bearing of the Davidson band.

EDUCATION MAKES THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE TO LIVE IN--- SO DOES LIFE INSURANCE SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST CO. Greensboro,
N. C. A. W. MCALISTER, Pres. H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

The students are expected to readily cooperate with this plan. Indirectly they will be responsible for the feeding of many
orphans, by sacrificing one Sunday dinner for a simple repast. This Sunday will follow immediately after Thanksgiving, and with all
the extra things of this occasion the students will most likely be willing to cooperate and make this day a
success.

MUSICAL PROGRAM TO BE OFFERED BY LYCEUM: The managers of the lyceum course have announced that the second number to
be offered at Davidson will be the Galganos, who will come here on December 13th. This company consists of Mr.
and Mrs. M. L. Galgano, who will entertain their audience through the medium of the musical instruments upon which they
play. Mr. Galgano, harpist, is an artist of rare ability. He thoroughly understands his favorite instrument and is capable of
bringing out the very depths of its soul. His playing is full of color, fire, and the delicate and smooth
tones, of which only the harp, in the hands of an artist, is capable of producing. His program will include
not only the most popular selections of the day, but also the greatest classical productions of the old master composers.
Mr. Galgano is pronounced by the leading musical critics as being unsurpassed by anyone in America. Mrs. Galgano, reader and
guitarist, is a most pleasing reader and guitar soloist. Her selections, though always amusing and pleasing, have back of them
an uplifting motive. This pair of artists have been touring the principal cities of the United States for five years,
leaving behind them a wake of delight and sunshine. Included in their program will be harp solos, Hawaiian guitar solos,
readings, guitar and harp duets, and harpologs. The management is fortunate in securing this talented couple at this time.

SUNDAY SCHOOL RECORDS SHOW GOOD ATTENDANCE: Last Sunday at all the “Y” Sunday Schools the attendance was good. Although some
of the regular student teachers could not go, there were enough to teach the classes which have been having students
as teachers. Five students went to Shearer, but two more could have been used. The attendance was 80. After Sunday
School, Rev. F. A. Barnes preached. There were 75 present at Hobson’s Chapel. J. C. McJunkin and Hiram Sharpe went
from Davidson. Doctor White, of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville, preached. He preaches there twice each month. Arrangements have
been made for Sharpe to fill the pulpit every first Sunday, which will give three preaching days for each month.
Dr. Richards preached at the convict camp last Sunday. “Tag” Guiton, Lee McLean, and Wade Allison were the students who
attended the Cornelius Sunday School. The attendance was 85. Marion Murray, Yeargen, and Wallace Purdy were present at the Mill
Chapel. There was an attendance of 42, which is 10 above the average. The total number present at all the
Sunday Schools was 343. This is 40 more than the average attendance. The number of students who attended these Sunday
Schools was 13, which is at least five below the average.

There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things: This progressive age constantly discovers a better way of doing things ---
always improves --- develops processes that excel. Our tailors at Fashion Park, for instance, have developed the Turole tailoring treatment---a
method of making “soft” clothing possessing all the fine lines that well-groomed men demand. Turole is pliant---has easy, comfortable lines
---conforms to the wearer’s action or inaction---is thoroughly distinguished. The Turole tailoring treatment is available in a series of interesting
style developments---we’re making a special exhibit of them now.

EFIRD'S
