THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

Billy Sunday is as well known as an athlete of world renown, in addition to being a preacher. He was
a star player on the Chicago Nationals in the eighties and nineties, his call to the ministry coming when he
was still young. Since his first day of preaching, he has led untold multitudes to Christ.

GOOD PROGRAM HELD BY C. E. TRAINING CLASS

At the regular meeting of the C. E. Training Class last Sunday afternoon, an interesting program led by W. E.
Milton was given.

The above is an exact representation of the Davidson College Faculty in the days that “used to be,” and furnishes
a contrast with the present faculty, and a comparison of the growth made by the college since that time, as
shown by the size of its corps of instructors.

“It is not necessary to be in a big place to do big things.” — Billy Sunday.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S. C.

EDUCATION MAKES THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE TO LIVE IN — SO DOES LIFE INSURANCE
SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. MCALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mar.

Here and There

1862 — Maj. Thomas Wooten, a Confederate veteran who served in General Lane's brigade of the Eighteenth North Carolina regiment
in the Civil War, died at his home in Camden, S.C. on the morning of the 26th of November. He
was 80 years old and is survived by six children.

1867 — Rev. J. B. Purcell, pastor of the St. Andrew's Presbyterian Church, at Wilmington, N. C., announced to his
congregation that he has accepted the office of executive secretary in the men’s work in the Southern Presbyterian Church.

During the past weekend, several alumni and old Davidson students were present on the campus. Among them were P. O.
Bethea, ’22; G. E. Miley, R. L. McLeod, ’23; A. H. Mebane, ex-'25; S. M. Davis, ’23; J. M. Adams,
’23; B. M. Hamer, '22; W. B. Jennings, ex-'26; R. H. Smith, '20. We were not able to get the
names of all the alumni and old men at the Davidson-Trinity game, in Charlotte, on Thanksgiving Day, but it was
possible to jot down the following names in the rush: J. E. Welson, ex-’24; J. A. McCrary, '22; T. N.
Hunter, ex-’25; H. F. Northrop, '23; J. Spratt Moore, ex-'24; R. L. Black, '22; and D. R. LaFar, ’22.

Dr. E. F. Shewmake recently presented to the Library a set of books entitled The History of the University of
Virginia. Philip Alexander Bruce, the author, has given in this five-volume set not only a history of the University, but
he has also given a very complete account of Thomas Jefferson’s activities as an educational reformer and promoter of public
instruction. He gave many interesting facts about the distinguished alumni. Two of the most prominent of these were Edgar Allen
Poe and ex-President Wilson. Among the well-known instructors of this school were Gildersleeve, the Hellenist; Sylvester, the Mathematician; and Rogers,
the founder of Boston Tech. Both the unique plan of electing studies and the honor system...

BILLY SUNDAY EVANGELIST TO SPEAK IN CHARLOTTE

“Billy Sunday is almost certain to be here at least once during his Charlotte revival,” said Mr. Williams, secretary of
the Davidson College Y. M. C. A., when questioned concerning the probability of Mr. Sunday coming to Davidson. “I have
sent in our request, asking for a visit from Billy Sunday, and believe that he will come to Davidson for
two addresses, if not more.”

Mr. Williams gave some further facts connected with the evangelistic campaign which will start on the 28th of December, that
date marking the arrival of Mr. Sunday and his staff at Charlotte. A large tabernacle such as is usually built
wherever a Billy Sunday revival is conducted, will be erected in Charlotte at the corner of Third and Tryon streets.
It will hold five...or six thousand people, providing room for all visitors that are expected from surrounding towns. It is
not known who will conduct the singing, as Mr. Rodcheaver, Mr. Sunday’s leader on most of his tours, is at
present in Europe. However, the public is assured that there will be splendid music in addition to the sermons which
have made the name of Billy Sunday famous. The combined Protestant Churches are sponsoring the great religious revival, and with
Dr. A. S. Johnston in charge of the various committees, great headway is being made in preparation for the meeting.
Prayer meetings are being held now to pray for the successful course of the revival and the salvation of thousands
who are not yet Christians. Mr. F. W. Rabb is the manager for Mr. Sunday. By his co-operation, plans are
being perfected for the greatest religious awakening this part of the state has ever known.

In spite of his sixty years, Billy Sunday is still endowed with a youthful vigor and vitality that enables him
to deliver the sermons that sink into the hearts of all who hear him. In the book, "Billy Sunday And
His Message," the author says that Billy Sunday is a man made from the common clay from which we were
all created, but that he had never in his life exhibited any show of hypocrisy or self-conceit. He shows that
Mr. Sunday has led thousands to Christ by a sheer force of dynamic personality plus an appeal to the noblest
emotions of man. In his private life, Billy Sunday is an ideal Christian, shunning all the unclean things of life,
and being satisfied only with the noblest and purest.

First, after the opening devotions, there was a short business session in which reports were heard from a deputation which
went the week before to Shearer Chapel to the C. E. Society there. The deputation was composed of I. P.
O'Connor, W. H. Lynch, and R. G. Wilson. They reported a fine prospect for a live society at Shearer if
the young people can be thoroughly interested and put to work. Ernest Milton then took charge of the meeting and
called on several of the members to give talks on different subjects such as they might be asked to discuss
while on a deputation. Those called on had had no time at all for preparation, but all made splendid talks.
First, L. L. Dick was called on, who handled in fine shape the need of co-operation in societies. Next, W.
W. Purdy, president of the class, gave some good suggestions as to how a C. E. society can improve its
programs. R. B. Parker then discussed several ways in which members can be induced to take an active part in
C. E. work. B. U. Ratchford was the last speaker. He mentioned a few ways to get the different committees
of a society to work. After a short criticism by the leader and a few members, the meeting was closed
with the Mizpah benediction.

In the lexicon of youth, which Fate reserves for a bright manhood, there’s just one word to sum up the
college student’s idea of dress: Ease! Hence the success of our young men’s Fall and Winter suits. Rather full backs
with perfectly soft fronts. Trousers fairly wide. Good selection from $35.00. MELLON'S

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Fires occur in American homes at the rate of 359 each 24 hours---a fresh outbreak every four minutes. At least
three of every four need not start, for they are due to carelessness and ignorance,---both correctible.

The Independence Trust Company
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. ('13)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
