-4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 8, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON.........Editor-in-Chief
D. M. COX.................Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD...........Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
First Managing Editor...........D. M. COX
Second Managing Editor........R. F. DAVIDSON
Assignment Editor...............J. M. McINTOSH
Athletic Editor.....................C. F. MINTER
Alumni Editor.....................J. A. BARRINGTON
Press Bureau Manager........W. Z. BRADFORD
Assistant Manager...............W. F. GALLOWAY

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
Advertising Solicitors:
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS, W. G. GUILE
Office Assistant:
JAMES McCUTCHEN
Advertising Copy:
E. J. ROSCH

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
Circulation Manager:
WATT McCAIN
Assistant Circulation Manager:
J. A. THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
President: W. P. BROWN
Vice-President: R. H. SMITH
Secretary-Treasurer: C. V. BROWN
Members: 
C. M. McILWAINE, D. D. McIVER, W. H. SHARBE, G. W. MAUZE, D. B. WALTHALL, O. J. ALLISON, A. N. MOFFENT, D. B. WHARTON, M. P. CALHOUN, W. H. MOORE, A. C. WILDMAN, J. R. EARNEST, J. H. PATTON, H. M. WHITE, W. F. GALLOWAY, W. L. POMEROY, J. M. WILLIAMS, J. A. LAKE, H. B. PRICE

A new vision that was opened to all of us last week was South America. Any who missed the lecture by Mr. Paul Vanorden Shaw, of Sao Paulo, Brazil, lost an opportunity seldom afforded to learn of the progress and development of the continent in almost every line. In fact, such a glowing picture was painted for us that it would seem almost impossible to appreciate this new and growing country without a visit to it in person.

We would like to be able to hear soon that every man passed all his work for the first semester of this year. However, since we almost fear that such a circumstance would cause a general state of alarm here, we must be content to admit that we are rank failures. If you haven't any friends you may know that there is something the matter with you and not that everybody is down on you. If you are not happy there is a skeleton in your closet somewhere. Don’t blame others for your misfortunes—blame yourself. It is a fine thing for a man to get by himself and think. The great trouble with most of us today is that we don’t think. Thinking requires effort and we don’t want to work any more than is necessary. We are mostly cowards. We are afraid to face ourselves. We have to live with ourselves all the time and so it’s to our interest to make of ourselves the best possible company. “They themselves are makers of themselves.”

The best textbooks that we have are the lives of the men around us. We see all the principles of psychology and philosophy worked out in the lives of the people living with us. Observe the good and commendable things of the personalities with which you come in contact and strive to get these into your own life. By thought and observation we can perform wonders with ourselves. “As a man thinketh.”

Examinations! They are over—for some; but alas, for others! What a sense of relief to those who passed! But how does the failure make you feel? Does it not cause you to feel out of heart? The second examination on a text is harder usually than the first. Let us go back to the beginning, to wish that all have gotten better grades than they deserved and are determined to work harder this semester that they may improve on their record.

COACH YOUNGER

Since the resignation of Coach Grey last fall, all eyes have been eagerly watching to see who would be found to take charge of athletics at Davidson and mold our future on the gridiron, the diamond, the basketball floor, and the cinder path. A position of such importance to us and to the name and fame of the college abroad, and one holding out so many opportunities to the man who fills it, of influencing all who are under his direction and guidance, naturally requires a great amount of care and judgment to be properly filled. Yet now that the selection has been made, and the offer accepted, we are all confident that it was done wisely, and that the man who is coming here to take charge will handle matters in a way tending to enhance the fame of Davidson. Monk Younger comes to us with an enviable record, both as a college athlete and as a coach. He is remembered and talked of still as the man who made four letters at Davidson his first year here, and his prowess was more notably demonstrated after he left Davidson and went to Virginia Polytechnic Institute. Also, at that school for four years he has been employed as one of their coaches, and has turned out some excellent men at end on their football teams, which was the position he supervised, also some fine basketball teams all of which were under his direction. V. P. I. gives up Younger with great reluctance, but it is with greater joy and enthusiasm that Davidson will welcome him as our head coach next fall, and under his hand aspire to send forth athletic teamsHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

That will spread her name far.

A LOAD LIFTED

Unknown, perhaps, to a number of our supporters, The Davidsonian has for a large part of the time since its founding by the Class of 1915, had a debt upon it. Particularly two and three years ago, an increase was made in this debt, and while a number of efforts had been made to get it settled, the present staff took over the management of the paper with a debt of practically eighteen hundred dollars on its hands. Of course, this was highly detrimental to the best interests and ultimate success of the paper, and has all along been a source of much concern, although perhaps to a large extent the money was spent in a way that helped build up The Davidsonian to the place that it now holds in the eyes of the college, the students, and the alumni. Since a number of attempts to pay off this debt have failed, we are even more grateful and appreciate more than otherwise would have been done, the action of the college, the faculty, and the student body in giving us a chance to accept a discount that had been offered and settle for once and all this account that has hung over and at times threatened the existence of the paper. We would like to take this opportunity to thank each and every one who has helped us in this matter, and to promise that our actions in the future will, as far as we are able to make them, do justice to the confidence that has been placed in us. Further, with this load lifted, we can turn all our attention to a better and more representative paper, and hope to accomplish a great deal in that direction.

Whose fault is it that you failed? Is it your own, the professor's, the college’s, or whose? What are we going to do about it, sit down, and fold our hands and say: “He did not want me to pass; so he made it hard, and asked stuff not practicable at all—it’s all his fault!” Did all the others fail, too? No, most of them passed and more than passed. Where does the trouble lie, then? It is within us. If we do not use this opportunity, how can we blame the other fellow? Let us give blame to whom blame is due. Let us not lose heart. There is still a chance for us to pass on these examinations on which we have failed. When the time comes for our second ones, let us not be caught napping, but let us get busy and study long and hard that these failures may be erased. Only half of our work is done. Examinations come again in the spring. Let us be prepared.

PHI BETA KAPPA WILL TAKE

(Continued from Page 1)

Dr. P. F. Henderson
Prof. W. G. Perry
Dr. J. M. McConnell
Prof. Reid Smith
Dr. C. A. Cornelson
Mr. S. C. Williams

As an honorary member, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of Hampden-Sidney, has been sent an invitation to join. The members in course are elected from the upper quarter of the senior class, and, each year, must not exceed an eighth of the total number in the class. There is no set grade in scholarship. However, the five men who have already been elected averaged above ninety. They are: Davidson, R. F.; Gamble, W. A.; Guille, W. G.; Ogden, D. H.; Smith, H. H. At commencement another election will be held, and several other men from the senior class will be initiated.

You can hire, with little to pay,
But a woman’s heart and a woman's life
Are not to be won that way.
—Mrs. Browning.

A man named Du Bose met a girl,
Who lisped through her teeth of pure pearl.
“I’ll hug you or kiss you,” he swore with an oath,
She lisped with surprise, “O, Mr. Du Both.”

Whirlwind—Say, did you ever kiss a girl in a quiet spot?
Hurricane—Yes, but the spot was quiet only while I was kissing it.

It’s easy to yell like a madman,
When the team comes through like a shot;
But it takes all your stuff
When the going is rough;
So show all the spirit you've got.

“There was a strange man here to see you today, papa,” said little Ethel, on meeting her father in the hall.
“Did he have a bill?”
“No, papa; he just had a plain nose.”

“Why don’t you pull down the curtains when you make love to your wife? I saw you last night.”
“Ha! Ha! The joke’s on you. I wasn’t home last night.”

Jupiter—Say, Poll, guess you had a swell time around at Venus’s the other night, didn’t you?
Apollo—Yep, nectar.

What the Seaman Saw

Church was over; the congregation filed slowly out and gathered in little chattering groups. Presently the minister came up and joined a select little party. He introduced an old sea captain to the leading light of the village, a wealthy Mr. Smith.
“You must have seen each other in church today,” said the beaming clergyman.
“Sure,” said the old salt. “He was sleeping in the next bunk to me.”

The printer does not make mistakes accidentally, he makes them on purpose. He counts that day lost during which he has not made a couple dozen glaring errors. His eyes refuse to close at night unless he has changed a “plea” to a “flea,” or a “coat” to a “goat.” He has violated the custom of his clan if he fails to turn “b” upside down and make a “q” out of it, or unless he changes “p” to “d.” He changes plurals to singulars, and in his attempt to make a glorious mistake by spelling “stellar” with one “l,” overlooks the fact that it would have been much more romantic to have made George Mauze a “Stella guard.” The sentimental bit of verse, “He kissed her under the silent star,” was once made by the poetic printer to appear, “He kicked her under the cellar stairs!” It is so easy and amusing for the printer to change the college “bell” to “pell,” “dell” to “tell,” or perhaps something else. Just before exams, the students of Davidson were surprised to see the cuss word “gosh,” staring them in the face from the columns of the Davidsonian, when it should have been nothing but a minor “gash.” The printer told a whopper when he said Walthall was writing a book review on “Bobbit and His Freedom.” The poet from the Shenandoah thinks his efforts to write reviews on both “Babbit” and “His Freedom” are little appreciated by the printer. They knocked the “mettle” out of us when they spelled it “metal.” There is salvation for practically every person on the globe, but we fear there is an unavoidable, certain doom awaiting the knight of the press.

NUT SUNDAES
By O. J. ALLISON

During the warm days of last week Mason Field was seen scampering over the campus playing tag, or something like that with Twitty, Snow Ball, and the other janitors.

Room No. 101 West is hereafter to be known as the Pest House of Davidson. Another name suggested was “Home for Aged and Infirm Musicians.”

The prize bone during exams goes to Bill McClain of Sweetwater, Tenn. On Eco exam when he read the question: “Is there such a thing as an Economic Law?” he thought that was the title of a book.

Attention, all ye would-be yodlers! Elliot Haney is planning to give a course in yodling to a limited number. See him at once if you want to get in it—E. West Dormitory.

Bevo Davis is seeking information about a lost crate of oranges. He attempted to carefully conceal them but someone discovered his hiding place and now Bevo wants to know who got the oranges.

Information has just been received that John Bachman has purchased a derby from Sydenstricker.

The yells for Captain George last Saturday night caused a little confusion as to which Captain George they were for.

P. C. Henderson now vies with Walthall and Galloway in the realm of poetry. The following is his first attempt:

I want to be a tough,
I want to smoke and chew;
I want to run around at nights
Like other fellows do.

This week-end found quite a number of the fair sex on the Hill. Among others were Misses Mary Lee Nichols, Sarah Jamison, Janie Gilmer, and Grace Montgomery of Charlotte, Misses Evelyn Goswick and Elizabeth Norfleet of Winston-Salem, and Miss Lila Henkel of Statesville.

Special mention in this column is necessary of Blanco White’s new smoking jacket. Have you seen it yet?

Anciano madre Hubbardo
Went a la cubardo
A toma su pobre doggo un bone,
Butta cuan ella got thera
El cubardo was bara
Y so el pobre doggo doggone.