12 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

Town News

A delightful birthday party was given last Saturday afternoon by Mrs. J. R. Withers, for her little daughter, Mary Copeland.

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin spent several days last week at their cottage in Montreat, N.C.

One of the most enjoyable social events of the week was the reception given to the teachers of the public
school by the Civic Club, last Tuesday, in the school building. Interesting talks were made by several members of the
school board; and the principal, Mr. John Bailey, gave a very gratifying report of the work. A pleasant social hour
followed, during which refreshments were served.

The Booklovers’ Club met with Mrs. W. R. Grey last Friday afternoon. An interesting paper was read by Mrs. Richards.

Miss Finch, a graduate of Salem College, and now living at Linwood, N. C., spent the weekend with her friend,
Miss Sarah Lingle.

Mrs. Goodykoontz and young son, of Bluefield, W. Va., witnessed the Davidson-State game at Charlotte, Saturday, and spent Sunday in
Davidson.

An interesting meeting of the Woman's Auxiliary was held in the Presbyterian Church on Wednesday afternoon. Miss Lizzie Young, Miss
Mary Lafferty, and Mrs. Graham told of the mission work in the mountains of North Carolina. These ladies had visited
Banner Elk and Crossnore and gave graphic descriptions of what they had seen there.

Dr. and Mrs. J. Martin and Miss Eloise Martin attended the Scott-Cramer wedding in Charlotte last Saturday.

Mrs. Walter Henderson has been called home on account of the serious illness of her father.

Among the faculty members attending the game between the Davidson and State Freshman teams, at Pinehurst, were Drs. J. W.
and J. M. McConnell, J. M. Douglas, Prof. J. L. Douglas, Prof. W. W. Wood, and Mr. F. L. Jackson.

Dr. Arbuckle took charge of the services at the First Presbyterian Church in Mooresville last Sunday in the absence of
the pastor, Mr. White.

Miss Sallie Phillips and Mrs. Ida Alexander, of Charlotte, spent last week with the Misses Lafferty.

Miss Lila McGehee, of Charlotte, spent the weekend with Mrs. Violet Currie.

Mrs. W. R. Grey has consented to tell of her experiences in Europe at the meeting of the Civic Club,
on Tuesday, the 13th. A book shower for the club library is planned for the same afternoon, which will be
followed by a social hour.

Miss MacQueen, of Wilmington, N. C., is visiting Mrs. F. L. Jackson.

Misses Mary Richards and Mary Black, who are spending the year studying at Oxford, have been visiting Edinburgh and Glasgow,
in Scotland.

Mr. and Mrs. Jim Blue have returned from their wedding trip, and are making their home with Mrs. W. H.
Wooten.

Mrs. W. W. Wood and young sons, who have been spending the summer at Lewisburg, W. Va., are expected to
return home in two weeks.

WORK FOR YEAR BEGUN BY DELTA PI KAPPA

The regular monthly meeting of Delta Pi Kappa, the Honorary Journalistic Fraternity, was held in the S. A. E. hall
last Friday night. The following new men were initiated: A. M. Hurd, J. A. Lake, A. C. Wildman, and R.
L. Price. The business meeting was preceded by a feed which was enjoyed by all present. A program committee was
appointed to arrange a program along journalistic lines. The student members of the fraternity now are: L. D. Elkin, R.
R. Jones, W. Z. Bradford, Harry Price, J. A. Lake, A. M. Hurd, R. L. Price, and A. C. Wildman.
The faculty members are Prof. K. J. Foreman, Dr. E. J. Erwin, and Dr. F. K. Graham.

GOVERNOR CAMERON MORRISON

Who will be the principal speaker at the celebration Monday; and who will address the “Y” Sunday evening.

NORTH CAROLINA’S CHIEF EXECUTIVE SECURED TO SPEAK AT Y. M. C. A. VESPER SERVICE

Students of Davidson Will Have Honor of Hearing Governor Morrison as Religious Speaker

Governor Cameron Morrison, of North Carolina, has been secured by the Y. M. C. A. to speak at the weekly
vesper services, at Shearer Hall, next Sunday evening. Governor Morrison has made a steady rise from a poor boy to
the office he now holds. He was born in Robeson County, where he attended school. Very early in life he
began the study of law and opened offices in Rockingham, N. C. After having practiced there for several years he
moved his offices to Charlotte. This was about 20 years ago. He enjoyed an extensive and very successful practice there
until his overwhelming defeat of Col. J. J. Parker in 1920 placed him in the gubernatorial seat in Raleigh.

An active interest has been taken by Governor Morrison in affairs of state in North Carolina for several years. Individuals
and the press unite in calling him one of the Tar Heel State’s foremost citizens and one of the most
progressive men in the state in educational and extension work, especially the construction and maintenance of a permanent, hard-surfaced system
of roads in the state. He can be called North Carolina's progressive governor, for the state has forged to the
front more during his incumbency than in many previous years. Strides have been and are being made that make North
Carolina known now as the union's most progressive state.

Governor Morrison is a devout Christian. He was a member of the Second Presbyterian Church during his residence in Charlotte.
The students will find it a rare treat to hear his address Sunday evening. Governor Morrison is a gifted orator
with a delivery pleasing to the public and especially so to a student. The subject of his address is not
yet known, but it is certain that a man of such calibre will bring to the “Y” a message worthy
of hearing.

SUBJECT NAMED FOR DEBATE

(Continued from page 1)

Debating is now a student body affair at Davidson, all undergraduates of the student body are eligible for the team.
As soon as every man is sure of going out for the team, it is necessary that he notify some
member of the debating council so as to aid in making the proper arrangements for the preliminaries. This must be
done immediately since the date for the try-outs is so near at hand.

CALENDAR

Thursday, Nov. 8, 7:30 p.m.—Eumenean Society, Phi Society.
Friday, Nov. 9, 7:30 p.m.—Senior-Junior Basketball.
Saturday, Nov. 10, 3:30 p.m.—Clemson Game, at Clemson, 7:30 p.m. Movies.
Nov. 11, 10:00 a.m.—Bible Classes; 1:15 p.m., Christian Endeavor; 2:00 p.m., Ministerial Band; 6:15 p.m., Y. M. C. A.
Monday, Nov. 12—HOLIDAY, Davidson Day Celebration.
Tuesday, Nov. 13—7:15 p.m., Pandemian Society, Metrophilian Society; 9:00 p.m., Junior Eumeneans; 7:30 p.m., Senior-Soph Basketball.

It seems to be the prevailing fashion of the campus for all gentlemen of note to don those abbreviated trousers
known from boyhood days as “short breeches.” Every day they become more and more plentiful.It was not such a surprise
when the noted fashion model and golf-hound, Johnny Bachman, put them on. Neither was it a jolt when beloved Charlie
McCrary chose that garment to conceal his nether parts. But from then on, it seemed as if the notion to
look good in “short breeches” was the only way. They are being used for more purposes than one. For instance,
take Hippo Houch. While hopping the train the other day, he was caught by Cop Johnson. He simply donned “short
breeches” for a disguise. No doubt he thought he looked innocent in them. Now take Allison, for example. When he
found that wearing glasses was not a sufficiently distinguishing mark for a gentleman of his position, he put on golf
breeches with red stockings. Our friends, Faison and Shepherd, look like a pair of Apollos when they parade across the
campus. The student body shows their appreciation by yelling fire. Now, these are the main celebrities. The custom has reached
a high tide of popularity. There are two things to suggest before the boys put on their winter underwear. These
are: (1) That the football team be presented with short breeches at the end of the season; (2) That the
basketball team be given them as costumes. They would look so snappy on the floor. Henderson says he has a
job sewed up in a tailor’s establishment.

CAMPUS LEADERS

Halloween Revelers Work Havoc in Chapel and Numerous Class Rooms

Cows Decorate Class Rooms During Night and Numerous Other Pranks Are Played

By Hal O. Ween

Hallowe'en night at Davidson probably did not witness the promenading of ghosts and goblins, but surely, the workings of a
motley crew of students. Faculty and student body awoke early last Thursday morning to find the sun gleaming forth on
that portion of the grotesque handiwork of the night prowlers that the college demolishing crew had not had time nor
implement to undo. The decorators had for once outwitted the wily crew of janitors who have henceforth returned things to
normalcy before the village became aroused to wakefulness, and the evidence of their work remained for the merriment of at
least the early birds for the first time in years. Shearer Hall was commodiously decorated, the campus trees were grotesque
in their Christmas tide costumes, and several of the professor's classrooms showed evidences of a visit by the fun makers.
Starting at the bell tower, one might make the rounds and find the results of the Hallowe'en crew's handiwork. The
lock on the door of Jazz Baby Smith's belfry was found filled with chewing gum and matches, and gave evidences
of Jazz Baby's efforts to open it without breaking it. The flag-pole, flaunting not the stars and stripes, swayed gently
to and fro as the morning breezes played along the corrugated sides of an ash can. The campus trees bore
Christmas-like gifts, such as ladders, tables, piano stools, and various parts of stoves. The fountain cupola was re-cupolaed with a
table and chair and showed architectural ability in the decorator’s additions. A Ford stood almost on its nose as the
rear end sat cocked up in a garbage can. All in all, the campus was a glorious sight.

Passing from the campus to various buildings and classrooms, one would continue to notice the effects of the ingenuity of
these clever marauders. One professor was amply supplied with a box of telephone line construction tools, possibly furnished to assist
him in excavating his desk from the pile of rubbish under which it was hid. Another's table was replaced with
an ash can. Another's blackboard was greased, and his usual blackboard talk was done away with for the day. Still
another’s room showed evidences of having housed a cow for a considerable time, for chaff dust was sprinkled down with
sweet milk. The buildings were befittingly arrayed with suitable decorations. Phi Hall was veritably turned into a fire hall and
housed what resembled Captain George’s you-push-‘em fire apparatus on its upper porch. Shearer Hall looked more like terror hall, was
torn topsy-turvy, and was filled with rubbish, cans, express trucks, and livestock. Its piano was silenced to muteness by stuffings
on the inside. Art and destruction were the outstanding accomplishments displayed by these knights of the Harvest God.

N. C. COLLEGIATE PRESS (Continued from page 1)

Carolina Magazine, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (now inactive); Greensboro; Davidson; Davidson College; Flora Macdonald Bulletin, Flora Macdonald, Red
Springs (now inactive); Message, Greensboro College for Women, Greensboro; Oxford Magazine, Oxford College, Durham; Wake Forest Student, Wake Forest. Papers:
Carolinian, North Carolina College for Women, Greensboro; Davidsonian, Davidson College; Davenport Weekly Record, Davenport College, Lenoir; Guilfordian, Guilford; Lenorian, Lenoir
College, Hickory; Maroon and Gold, Elon College; Queens Blues, Queens College, Charlotte; Salemite, Salem College, Winston-Salem; Tar Heel, University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill (now inactive); Technician, North Carolina State College, Raleigh; and Twig, Meredith College, Raleigh. Davidson delegates will
be announced during the coming week.

The White Drug Company has a magnificent new candy case. It has a beautiful mahogany frame with an onyx base.
This case was won for the White Drug Company at a beauty contest by their representative, Mr. Alfred McConnell.

Mr. Walton Venable, of Charleston, W. Va., spent several days in the city, the guest of Mrs. Olive White.

College men like to do things on the run! Not much time to do their shopping--- There’s where we shine!
We are ready at a moment's notice. Everything that’s needed---smart and correct Fall suits, overcoats, shoes, oxfords, hats, and furnishings.

MELLON’S
8-10 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Yes, we have good things to eat
The Misses Schofield

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office
NORTON BARBER SHOP

Always Something Good to Eat
NEW YORK CAFE
DAVIDSON

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver
