4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday.

LISTON D. PRIC... Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. McILWAINE... Managing Editor
C. M. S. LAKE... Assistant Managing Editor
H. B. PRICE... Assistant Managing Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY... Athletic Editor
W. M. COX... Peanut Parcher Editor
J. R. GARRISON... Business Manager
WATT McCAIN... Advertising Manager
W. Z. BRADFORD... Associate Editor
A. C. WILDMAN... Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON... Alumni Editor
K. S. McALPIN... Subscription Manager
W. H. CROMWELL... Bookkeeper
A. M. HURD... Circulation Department
J. A. THOMPSON... Assistant Manager
GREEN, HURD, GIBBS, L. WHITE, M. WILLIAMS, J. M. WISE... Reporters’ Club

EDITORIAL

AN OPPORTUNITY

STUNT NIGHT has made its bow to the students of Davidson, and the success of the occasion warrants its perpetuation as an annual student function. Stunt night is well qualified to fill the place of the deceased Senior Speaking. It should be preserved as the biggest event of the Fall calendar and made a nucleus around which a week-end of social activity can be built.

At Davidson, a man is trained for mental and physical prowess. The courses of instruction, the publications, the literary organizations, occasional lectures, sermons, the library, and campus expression all tend to make the Davidsonian an intellectual peer. The athletic teams, gymnasiums, and R.O.T.C. strive toward the development of physical prowess. But what is done for the development of the Davidsonian’s social being?

The Junior Speaking event in the Spring is the only social occasion spared since the abolition of Senior Speaking. Essential in man’s preparation for life are those elements of social conduct, the development of which the average man at Davidson is deprived. These things seem to be forgotten in Davidson’s rush for scholastic and athletic attainment. The need is for a big social event during the early months of the college year, and Stunt Night has offered a solution to the problem. Stunt Night in the Fall! Junior Speaking in the Spring! A Davidson graduate should be an all-round man, ready to take his place in the ranks of the world, socially as well as intellectually.

THE GOLDEN QUILL

Many things are done at Davidson without thought of reward. Student body offices are commonly regarded as “thankless jobs,” and the men who fill these positions must content themselves with the knowledge that they are contributing a share in the maintenance of the college traditions and standards. The Davidsonian reporter is a vital necessity in carrying on the work of the student body, and yet he receives a smaller share of glory for his accomplishments than any worker in the college. He is working for the honor of the Davidsonian and Davidson, and he is contented if the student life is brightened or enlivened by the influence of the paper.

The Reporters’ Club, realizing that the efforts of the college journalist are not signally appreciated, and that his services to the college are underestimated, formulated a plan several years ago for bestowing a trivial, yet distinctive honor upon those members of the club who rendered meritorious service in the reportorial department of the Davidsonian. This plan is the annual award of GOLDEN QUILLS. The GOLDEN QUILL is significant of work—hard work, service—and a love for Davidson. It is a frail means of recognizing this valuable service to Davidson.

DAVIDSON BOOSTERS

The bold asseverations directed toward the R.O.T.C. band in the columns of the OPEN FORUM last week, and the direct slur on the college spirit of the leader of the band, seem to be unfounded. The R.O.T.C. band, though not organized primarily for the purpose of playing at athletic contests, has shown its willingness to perform whenever possible in support of the Davidson teams, and its spirit is above reproach. At the Rock Hill game, the band was the life and soul of the Davidson pep; without it, we would have made a poor show against the rooters from Presbyterian College. No organization on the hill, not excepting the student body in their pep meetings, devotes as much time toward organized spirit and pep as does the R.O.T.C. All the more credit is due the members of the band when we consider that this display of spirit is entirely voluntary, and that the time spent in practicing and playing for games is a clean-cut addition to the practice periods required by the Military Department. The band is boosting Davidson! Boost the band! Help the band help the team, and thus do their share in maintaining the honor and glory of old Davidson.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor for the benefit of those members of the student body or faculty who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

A REPLY TO MR. “PEP”

The Band of the Davidson College unit of the R.O.T.C., as an organization, the individuals of the above-mentioned band, and the leader of the same wish to protest against the gentle mauling received in these columns last week. We can see no reason why we should receive such unjust and unfair criticism. In the first place, the article is so abnormal in its allegations, so choked with spleen and unfairness that a logical defense is impossible. In the second place, it is hard for a unit to defend itself properly against ambush. The band has no apologies, few explanations, and few statements to make to Mr. “Pep.”

The R.O.T.C. Band is composed principally of raw material and having been organized barely a month ago to date, could hardly be expected to make its debut two weeks after organization. Mr. Pep admits that the noises emanating from Shearer Hall at regular intervals sound as though they might be produced by a band of some sort, but certainly does not imply that they are very beautiful, according to his way of thinking. Why is it that he would have such horrible noises inflicted in the midst of a football game? All things have a time and a place. The band begs the following trifles of those interested: that they bear its existence until the proper time, then examine it and offer criticism, with the request that the criticism be constructive; for no one appreciates being “hounded.”

The band and the band leader wish to protest against the insinuation regarding school spirit and backbone. The individual members of the band feel that they offer fully as much devotion and loyalty to their Alma Mater as might reasonably be expected of a student, and their instrumental efforts, in addition to this, do what they can, and are mercilessly upbraided for not doing more. We can hardly see the connection between backbone and the business of playing at a football game.

To Mr. Pep, we wish to express our heartfelt thanks for one clause, namely: “When their services so mean much.” It is a challenge to each of us to do our best. It is a challenge to those members of the student body who can.

JOS. R. EARNEST.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS COVER VARIOUS TOPICS

The following books have been added to the college library:

1. Black Oxen by Gertrude Atherton. This novel beautifully portrays Mary Zatianny, a woman born into one of New York’s prominent families and who has lived the greater part of her life in the diplomatic circles of Europe.
2. The Middle of the Road by Phillip Gibbs. This is the first representative novel of the Europe of the 20th century. His absorbing story moves with vivid truthfulness in England, Ireland, France, Germany, and Soviet Russia.
3. Scholarship and Service by Nicholas Butler. This volume constitutes an interpretation of the modern university in terms of its ideals, its problems, and its councils.
4. Legends and Romances of Spain by Lewis Spence. This book traces the origin of...The Moors and tells of Spanish Romances and humorous stories and will interest everybody.

5. The Causes of the War of Independence by Van Tyne. This book is the result of twenty years of investigation by the author who is head of the history department of the University of Michigan. To read this book for a history will be both illuminating and authoritative.

6. Romances from the East and from the West. It explains social, religious, and industrial differences. It points out remedies for present conditions in the East against European administration.

7. Spain in Silhouette by Trowbridge Hall. Hall gives in this book in his vivid and eager fashion an account of his trip through Spain.

8. The Liberal College by Alexander Meiklejohn. A book full of a thorough and frank discussion of the fundamental problems of College Education and the function which the college should fulfill in American life and thought.

PLANS TO MAKE GREATER MAGAZINE MOVE RAPIDLY

At the beginning of this year, The Davidson College Magazine staff decided to combine The Davidson College Magazine with the publication presented by the Junior Class at last year's Junior Speaking, Cap and Bells. The publication, which will retain the name The Davidson College Magazine, goes to press this week, and bids fair to be one of the best put out by any college. W. F. Galloway is the Editor-in-chief and A.M. Martin is Humorous Editor. The plan this year is to have at least fifteen pages of original humor, and Piggy Martin requests that all good jokes be turned in to him as soon as possible. The editorial staff is endeavoring to avoid the use of exchange jokes. Instead of two issues, as last year, there are to be four, and each one promises to be the best yet. The magazine is to be larger both in size and number of pages than heretofore. Financially, the magazine is in better condition than ever before, this end being held down by Allan M. Hurd, Business Manager, and J. M. Selser who are working like trojans for advertisements.

AESCULAPIAN CLUB PLANS BUREAU OF INFORMATION

The Aesculapian Club recently held a meeting to perfect plans for their operation this year. Seventeen old men were present at the meeting and the consideration of new men occupied part of their time. The club has some new plans on foot for this year’s work, and among them will be the adoption of a bureau of information, which will procure pamphlets and such literature as will be of help to the pre-medical students. Any information can be obtained through this bureau regarding the leading medical schools of the country, and catalogues of these institutions will be on hand for reference. Officers for the coming year are: R. R. Jones, president; A. P. Hudgins, vice-president; W. I. Howell, secretary; and R. H. Brown, treasurer.

CLASS BASKETBALL STARTS WHEN COACHES ARE APPOINTED

At last, the class basketball season has started. Practice has begun and everything is progressing nicely. Coaches to direct each team have been appointed by Coach Younger. The Fresh team will be coached by Spec McConnell; the Sophomores by McBeall; the Juniors by Tom Staley; and the Seniors by Elkins. A tentative schedule for practices has been announced as follows: The Seniors from 3 to 4:30 P.M., the Fresh from 4 to 6 P.M., the Juniors from 8 to 9 P.M., and the Sophs from 9 P.M. on. The Seniors look the best at present as they have very nearly the same team that played for them last year. Elkins, McBryde, Boushee, McLaurin, Price, McMillan, Currie, Brown, Streibech, and Story seem to be their main men. The Juniors, while not having the team that ran away with the championship last year, promise to make some team fight if they are going to take the honors away from them this term. The men standing out most prominently are: McNair, Gracey, Price, Oeland, Wharton, Brice, Twist, Mathews, and Piggy Martin. The Sophomores, finishing on the bottom last year, are out for revenge. They will have many men that they did not have last year. The most likely looking men are: Davis, Huie, Lindley, Cooke, Blue, Lindley, A. C., Oden, Coltrane, and Parker. The Freshmen have not organized yet but will be up and doing things before many days have passed. They have not as yet elected a manager. The captains have not yet been elected, but the managers for the three upper classes are as follows: Seniors, Hodgin, G. M.; Juniors, Staley, T. F.; Sophomores, Davis, M. C. The playing schedule will begin on the twenty-third of this month. Each team will play six games, and two games will be played each week.

NEW TOWN WATER SYSTEM PROGRESSING RAPIDLY

The citizens of Davidson have long had a very inadequate supply of water from the college tank and other private sources, but ever since the first pipes were laid under Main Street in the summer of 1922, work has been going forward towards the completion of a more modern and efficient city water system. The new system will supply the entire town with water and will greatly reduce the fire hazard both in the town and on the campus. The city supply, however, will not be available for the use of the college except in emergencies, as the connection between the two systems is controlled by a cut-off valve. The central tank, now under construction, will be located behind the cemetery. It will be 110 feet in height and with a capacity of 100,000 gallons, while the college tank holds only 80,000 gallons. The concrete reservoir is back of Mr. Joe Gamble's residence, near the grade crossing. This has a capacity of 200,000 gallons and is equipped with both gasoline and electrically driven pumps. The wells are being sunk beyond the new underpass, a short distance out of town. The contractors have been having a great deal of trouble with these wells, but they seem to be in better shape now, and the rest of the work is also nearing completion. As soon as the wells are finished and connected with the main line of pipe, the new system will be ready for operation.

WILDKITTENS WIN HARD SCRAP FROM CONCORD HIGH

The light-weight Davidson High School eleven invaded Concord’s territory last Friday and returned with a draw game to their credit, 6 and 6. Coached by W. H. Moore, of the Class of '23 at Davidson College, Concord’s team is recognized as one of the best in this section. In the first half of the game, they outplayed Davidson and scored a touchdown through straight football. The period ended with the ball on Davidson's 8-yard line, but with eleven Wildkittens fighting madly. Davidson came back with a rush in the second half and outplayed the home team. Recovering the ball on his 30-yard line, Dick Grey made a spectacular end run for 60 yards and a touchdown, ending the scoring for the day. Concord attempted a counterattack, successfully completing several forward passes, but the Wildkittens were fighting every inch of ground, and their goal was not threatened again. The visitors made two first downs as compared to Concord’s eight, and it must be said in justice to the home team that they were handicapped by the loss of quarterback Ridenhour, who broke a shoulder the previous week while playing Charlotte High and is out for the season. The final score shows the old Davidson spirit of never-say-die, the spirit which makes up in determination and fight what is lacking in weight and experience.

O. J. ALLISON ANNOUNCES ANNUAL BUSINESS STAFF

O. J. Allison, business manager of the Davidson Annual, announces the selection of the following men who will assist him this year: R. W. Oeland, T. B. Brown, A. N. Moffatt, of the Junior class, and E. P. O'Connor of the Sophomore class. The work of these assistants will be of a clerical nature. They will begin their campaign for advertisements next week. Mr. Allison will make a most efficient business manager, having already proven his ability by his wise and scrupulous selection of assistants. With such an excellent business department and an equally worthy editing staff, the students have every reason to believe that the best Annual that has ever left Davidson College will be sent forth this year. The Annual is one of the main live wires of the College and necessitates the loyal support of every Davidsonian in making this year’s Annual one that Davidson will be proud of, and one that will win the respect and admiration of all who read it.

JUNIOR CLASS ELECTS POET AND HISTORIAN

The Junior class held a meeting last Monday morning for the purpose of electing their class historian and poet. Harry Price and Wallace Purdy have served in the respective capacities for the past two years, and recognizing the ability and worth of these two students, a motion was made and unanimously carried that these two be re-elected.