THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

FEEDS? W. B. BARNETTE AND CO. We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

ASTHMA There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated vapors of—

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS Let Us Prove It

BARBER SHOP — For High Class PRINTING of every description + ‘‘Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

Merchants & Farmers National Bank Charlotte, N. C. 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit Checking Accounts Invited

She—"Won't you have this seat beside me?” He—"No, thanks—I'm most too broad minded.”

The BELLS of Davidson Chapel

We furnished Stout Montgomery's costume for “Why Pierrot,” let us furnish yours. SOUTHERN TENT & AWNING CO.

THE EDITOR’S PICK All-Off Campus Football Team

Red Holtzhouser Left End Red Malloy Block and Tackle Bill Story Mud Guard McGee Center Ingalls Disre-Guard I. T. Chung Fishing Tackle A. D. Kirk Kiddie Carr John Baker Rear End L. Half-Wit R. Half-Breed Gimme My Quarter Back Nita Naldi Bare Back Moose Atoll Scrub Woman Zion Alford Water Boy

A Few of the Things the Freshmen Have Asked

Why D. Barkley told his roommate that if it wasn’t for him he'd be the craziest man on the campus? If it could be said that Mason Fields exposed his ignorance when he took off his shoes? If that peculiar noise Ted Jones makes is a bark, a laugh, or if he is just practicing for the Glee Club? If a fortification is two twentyfications? If a nation in which there were no women would be a stagnation? If a mosquito can weep? Some claim they have seen a moth ball. If the poet who had a “window in his soul,” is any relation to the man who “had a pain in his stomach”? If a man is altruistic when he tells hair-raising stories to bald-headed men?

The following gentlemen of “color” will please affiliate themselves at the earliest possible moment with The Club to further its benefit: Wick Black, Buster Gray, Ed. Brown, Leighton Green. Rainbow

Hey Bill, how ‘bout bringing my watch down when you come? Aw, let it run down. ‘Sno use, we've a winding staircase.

Time Out! Jim Patton—"Whatza time J. I?” John Smith—"Ten-two.” Jim—"Ten to what?” John—"Tend to your own business.”

Suggestion to Bill Glenn in connection with his Shiver and say—Keep off the gas.

Signs of Charlotte

For those who insist on standing on the street car seats: Use this: seats for rear end only. For aeroplane chauffeurs: shove this sign. No parking

John Simpson and George Dupuy, Davidson's stage door Johnnies were sadly fooled Saturday night. Forgetting where they were, immediately after the “Follies,” they made a rush for the stage entrance, only to find Shearer’s back door and a flock of co-eds awaiting their fathers.

This week's Prize Dumbell—"The Guy who wanted to go in and get acquainted with ‘Mr. Paint’ when he saw the sign ‘Fresh Left Out—Paint’ on one of the doors of the Georgia dormitory.”

Fresh—"Do you know Chester?” Hi Regen—"Chester Who?” Fresh—"Chesterfield.” Regen—“Is he any kin to Mason Field?”

Our own examples of nationally advertised products: A Skin you Love to Touch—Dick McMillian. La Creole Anti-Kink Hair Dressing—Nappy Davis. T. N. T.—Galloway. Borden's Condensed Milk Beauty Clay—Ted Jones, Stacomb—Tom Barr, Wine of Cardui—Buffalo McKinnon. Blue Jay Corn Plaster—Dope Matheson, Reducing Records—Skinny Montgomery. Shorty Love.

Jim Carr says that he’s not the least bit superstitious but he believes in signs all the same. Watt McCain has had the whole list of vegetables before him this week trying to find something that will fit in with a song. He could think of nothing save this plaintive ditty: “I call my girl Gold Medal, ‘cause she's such a dainty flower.”

John D. the prospective farmer handed the following dissertation on the bovine species two or three weeks ago and we thinkThe cow is a particular animal, as well as the well-known banana. She is also a very dignified sort of creature. She has four legs, one on each corner. She has horns but does not blow them, not Klaxon Horns. Mr. Cow is called a bull but does not give milk. Most bulls are shot and some die. Cow's skins are used to make cow-hide shoes. I wish I had a pair of cow-hide shoes. Black cows eat green grass and give white milk, so do other cows.

EXTRA OPPOSITION GIVEN DECLAIMERS

Time was when everyone thought it quite sufficient that every literary society on the Hill choose Fresh-Soph declaimers, award him a medal, and go on its way rejoicing over good work well done. As a result of this lack of interest among the leaders, younger speakers, as a rule, did not make serious preparation for the event. Indeed, one veteran was heard to remark that he had “re-vamped” an old high school speech, given it, and won a medal. But the old order changeth. Those who have the interests of literary work most at heart have decided to submit a plan whereby the winner in each society shall meet and contest with winners from the other literary societies for the championship of all the societies in Fresh-Soph declamation. To win that kind of contest would make real preparation a necessity, and not an optional affair. The joint contest will probably be held in the first week of December. It is hoped that this innovation marks a turning toward higher standards of literary excellence for Davidson.

FEASIBLE PLAN ADOPTED FOR RESERVING TENNIS COURT

A means for remedying the present inefficient method of reserving the tennis courts has been found. Within the next few weeks, a tennis board will be put up near the Chemistry building. Upon this, the players may reserve a certain court for a certain time. The board will be something like this: A large blackboard will be divided into two sections. On one side the rules of the courts will be drawn up and on the other the various courts (North, Mast, East Center, etc.), under each of which will be painted the daily schedule:

2:00 P.M. Sally 1, OWI
3:15 P.M. —
4:30 P.M. —
5:30 P.M. —
6:30 P.M. —

Opposite these hours the player must sign up for the court that he wants. A time in the morning will be set after which the reservations may be made. If he does not appear by a certain time, he forfeits the court. Other rules that become necessary will be added. The arrangements for putting up the board have not been completed but the promoters of the idea assure its erection in the near future. This method of reserving tennis courts has proved successful at the University of Virginia and several of the Western colleges. It promises to be equally successful here at Davidson.

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES - ALHAMBRA THEATRE

The Merriest Place in Charlotte

WRIGLEY'S

Take it home to the kids. Have a packet in your pocket for an ever-ready treat. A delicious confection and an aid to the teeth, appetite, digestion.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Stationery and PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Toilet Articles