DAVIDSON — $90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Today—1 Page Vol. I. No. 7 DAVIDSON, FEBRUARY 22, 1923 FOUNDED 1922

BONDS GIVE DAVIDSON MUNICIPAL WATERWORKS

Davidson’s progressive spirit is clearly shown in the step toward municipal advancement she has taken in the past few months, and without a doubt the town will soon boast of a first-class system of municipal waterworks and improved streets. It will be remembered that during the past fall there was a near water panic, largely caused by the inadequacy of the Davidson College waterworks to supply sufficient water to both the college and the town. At that time the town called a bond election at which bonds for $60,000 for municipal waterworks, and $30,000 for street improvements were provided. These bonds have gone through the process of validation and are now ready for advertisement prior to bids on them being accepted by City Clerk Thompson on March 21. As soon as money is realized on these bonds, steps will be taken to let contracts to cover the various proposed improvements.

Miss Martin Entertains

Miss Eloise Martin, of Converse College, was the lovely host of a house party last weekend. The Kappa Sigma fraternity gave a social function Saturday in honor of the guests. Among the guests were: Misses Anna Law, Jean Dupre, and Mary Oeland, of Spartanburg, S. C., and Miss Lois Rogers and Miss Margaret Jenkins of Shelby, S. C. Other visitors were Messrs. Jones Yorke, Sam Tolar, and Louis Crisp, of State College.

J. M. Rumple, ’12, arrived this week from Columbus, O., with his wife and small daughter, Jean. Mr. Rumple is on his way to South America, where he will work for the Gilchrist Company.

Mrs. P. H. Whitaker left Thursday for an extended visit in Greensboro. During her absence, Mrs. Schenk will be with Mrs. Hugh Grey.

Mr. and Mrs. F. A. Barnes were visitors at the home of their mother, Mrs. M. L. Barnes, last Wednesday on their way home from a visit in Texas.

Davidson people will be interested in hearing that Miss Katheryn Worth is listed among the honor pupils of journalism in Columbia University of New York.

Wednesday, being St. Valentine’s Day, caused many social functions, among them being a unique party at the home of Captain and Mrs. Ellis in honor of the “As You Like It” Club. The Young Ladies’ Club was delightfully entertained by Miss Mary Black.

One of the most enjoyable and profitable meetings of the Book Lover’s Club was held at the home of Miss Vinson on Wednesday afternoon. The main paper of the evening was read by Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle on “Dutch Art.” Delicious refreshments brought the meeting to a close.

Miss Velma Shambart, who is a teacher in the Charlotte schools, spent the weekend with her sister, Mrs. L. A. Weatherly.

J. P. Williams, ’16, has accepted the presidency of a school for girls at Lewisburg, W. Va.

AMERICAN LEGIONAIRES DEDICATE NEW HOME

In response to an invitation sent to the Davidson and Cornelius Legionnaires and their families, a large crowd gathered on last Monday evening for the dedication of the new home in the Knox Building of the Davidson-Cornelius Post, No. 86, of the American Legion. Following the dedication of the new and spacious legion headquarters, an impressive program was rendered. Besides a splendid musical program, there were many interesting events presented. Past Commander Morrow, of Mooresville, installed new officers for the year 1923. The officers inducted into authority were: H. S. Caldwell, commander; L. R. Christenbury, vice-commander; Frazer Hood, chaplain; J. B. Ryan, adjutant and finance officer; Dr. John W. MacConnell, service officer; and P. F. Booe, sergeant-at-arms. After having charged the officers as to their duties, Past Commander Morrow charged the members of the legion as to their duties as members of that patriotic body. Doctor Lockwood, of Charlotte, State Commander of the American Legion, made an address in which he spoke of the principles for which the American Legion stands. The new rooms will make a comfortable home for the club and offer a profitable pastime to its members through its reading room and many interesting indoor games. The rooms are well furnished and make club rooms of which any post of the American Legion should be proud. This post is planning a bright and progressive future in its new home.

DAVIDSON HIGH GIRLS WIN FROM STATESVILLE

In one of the fastest and best girls' basketball games seen here this year, the Davidson High girls team defeated the Statesville team 30 to 19, last Friday, February 16. Davidson obtained the lead early in the first quarter and managed to hold it through the game. The local team’s guards did excellent work, and the forwards took advantage of every opening to cage the ball. Statesville came back in the second quarter and managed to keep Davidson from scoring but one basket, but were unable to score themselves. The half ended with the score 10-3, in Davidson's favor. The second half saw Jane Preston, who was substituted for her sister June Preston, seem to find the basket and completely mystify the Davidson guards, but in spite of her excellent shooting, the quarter ended with the score 19-11 in the locals' favor. The last quarter was somewhat a repetition of the first. Both teams scored several points, and this was probably the hardest-fought part of the game. Statesville, however, was unable to overcome the eight-point lead and trailed in at the finish with 19 points to Davidson’s 30. Adele Shelton starred for Davidson, scoring 23 of her team’s points. Charlotte Hunter also played a good game at center. For Statesville, Jane Preston was the individual star, scoring 12 of her team’s 19 points.

Mrs. J. M. Wharey is visiting her daughter, Mrs. W. R. Grey.

FORD AND TRACTOR AGENCY ESTABLISHED

One of the latest additions to the list of Davidson business firms is the Presson Motor Company. The new concern is located on South Main Street, occupying a new building opposite the Carter Motor Company. The business is owned and personally conducted by Mr. S. L. Presson. Mr. Presson is the authorized Ford and Fordson sales and service dealer of this district. Gas and oil and a complete line of parts and accessories are carried in stock. Besides the manager, the working force consists of two salesmen and three first-class mechanics. Mr. Presson stated that the business has been prospering since its formal opening two weeks ago. He reports that despite the bad weather of the past week, five cars and one tractor were sold.Forest: Brewton for Carlyle; Heckman for Lake. Foul Goals—Mauze, 6 out of 12; Stringfield, 17 out of 23. Referee: Groger (V. M. I.)

ELON GAME

The bright spot in the Wildcat’s otherwise unsuccessful trip through the State was the clean-cut victory of the Poison Squad over Elon, 30-24. The Red and Black picked up steam a little too late in the Wake Forest game, but against the Christians they had everything oiled up from the start and pulled off a bit of passing that simply bewildered the opposition. The brilliant passing, coupled with the machine-like accuracy of both quints, made the earlier portions of the game of a variety that Elon will remember for some time. In the latter phases, however, the open play was abandoned and the game grew rougher and fiercer towards the end.

Fix, of Elon, started the scoring with a pretty goal, but the Wildcats soon took the lead and had the better of the argument. It was in the beginning of the second period, however, that the Poison Squad got in their best work, and soon the scoreboard showed the Wildcats leading by a dozen markers. Crawford and Mauze were rolling, but Elon called a halt to such proceedings and, with their guards fighting like wildmen, the Christians began to regain their losses, though they never again came close enough to be dangerous.

Summary:
ELON (24) DAVIDSON (30)
Fix (14)........ L. F........ Laird (6)
Brown, R........ R. F........ Staley
Brown, A (4).... C........ Mauze (10)
McAdams........ L. G........ Boggs
Perry (4)....... R. G........ Crawford (12)

Substitutions—Elon: Brooks (2) for A. Brown; Marlette for Perry. Davidson: Beall (2) for Staley. Referee: Mangum, Durham “Y.”

GUILFORD GAME

Winding up their road trip on Saturday afternoon, the Fighting Devils were nosed out by the Frazier boys of Guilford, 45-43. To the Frazier brothers goes all the credit for the Guilford victory, for between them they made 41 points. The game was a seesaw affair in which neither side had any distinct advantage. The score was tied fourteen times during the contest and at the end of the first period the Wildcats were leading 29-27. The lead seesawed back and forth until with one minute left to play the count stood 43-43. J. G. Frazier red the sphere in the corner of the court and with a backhand toss shot it through the meshes and gave the Quakers the game by two points.

It was a goal a minute game. The Quakers made five foul shots good while Warhoss tossed in three and each team made 20 field goals, exactly one a minute. The total of 88 points is the highest total score made in a college game this season. J. G. Frazier, with 25 points, won high point honors for the evening. J. M. Frazier and Red Laird each made eight baskets, while Warhoss and Pat made five shots good. Only two or three short shots were made during the whole contest and never have more spectacular shots been crowded into a small 40 minutes.

DAVIDSON (43) GUILFORD (45)
Beall (2)........ R. F........ Frazier, J. W. (16)
Laird (16)....... L. F........ Frazier, J. G. (25)
Mauze (16)...... C........ Mackey (2)
Crawford (10)... R. G........ Thomas (0)
Boggs (0)........ L. G........ Ferrell (2)

Substitutions—Davidson: Staley for Beall; Davis for Staley. Foul Goals—Mauze, 3; J. G. Frazier, 5.

STATESVILLE PASTOR SPEAKS

(Continued from Page 1)

The question as to whether we will conform to the world for a short time and suffer for longer times and greater punishment, or whether we will reign with Him in eternity. Today we are wrestling with nations, with principalities. The faithful soldier of Jesus Christ will endure and will gain the victory.

“We see churches fall away, we see men being lost, because men, teachers of men, forget God in their search for worldly knowledge. The mantle of Elijah has descended on the Southern college, on Davidson College, to carry on the work of the Kingdom.

“A passionate suffering for a loving Savior is the greatest passion of the human heart. The miracle of miracles is that Christ came down from His heavenly home to be human, that His blood might be given for us. And yet we lose sight of the suffering of Christ, of the Christ in whom is power and holiness.

“He came in His holiness and gave His allness for our nothingness. He is one person, both God and man, God that He may save man, and man that He may sympathize with man. When He comes there will be adoration and love to those of His people who have been true to Him. Blessed and Holy is he who believes on Him. Joy will reign supreme, all suffering will be gone.”

The speaker concluded his sermon with a beautiful poem which had for its teaching the greatness of standing as a brave soldier of Christ.

Electric Shoe Shop
LET US REPAIR YOUR SHOES
We Double Their Life
Davidson, N. C.

Presson Motor Company
Authorized Ford Dealer
LINCOLN FORD FORDSON
DAVIDSON, N.C.

CROWELL PUBLISHING COMPANY
The American Magazine
The Woman's Home Companion
Collier’s Weekly
Farm and Fireside
The Mentor
Davidson Representative
MISS VICTORIA WITHERS
Box 227
Davidson, N. C.

Henderson Auto Electric Co.
BATTERY REPAIRING
and ACCESSORIES
Davidson, N. C.

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS
Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE
People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Electrik Maid
BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
Davidson, N.C.