- THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 1, 1923

FENCING AGAIN COMES INTO LIMELIGHT
Speedy Carr Promises Good Team This Year

Fencing, that famed world-wide sport, is again coming into vogue. As we glance backwards a few centuries, we can clearly understand the historical significance of this sport which is now claiming the attention of its great number of fans and fanettes. Inquiring into the annals of the Greeks and the Romans, it is revealed to us that fencing was a widely known sport in their day. Even Phillip of Macedon, and his all-renowned and famous son, Alexander the Great, spent many hours of enjoyable pleasure with the sport. When he was conquering the world and bringing all the other great countries of the then known world under his subjection, he would always take some diversions away from his regular military duties and go out with his friends and enjoy fencing. Had it not been for the recreations gained from this sport, he would never have been able to make such a wide collection of specimens, both plants and animals, to send to his teacher, Aristotle, the founder of the biological sciences. He held Aristotle in highest esteem and enjoyed making this collection of specimens for him. When he founded the city of Alexandria in Egypt, he left several of his foils there, and we think we see several of them in use on our dear campus today. Isocrates contended with a foil against Demosthenes who had a sword, and Isocrates won. Fencing contests were always staged at the Olympian games, played at Athens. Great hordes of barbarians assembled themselves there and witnessed and enjoyed the contest of fencing. Robin Hood, the outlawed nobleman of English folklore, depended largely upon his skill in the art of fencing to supplement his ability with the bow and arrow to protect the poor inhabitants of the country, hard-pressed by the unbearable oppressions of the tyrants of the land. Fencing was the chief source of pleasure among his clan of honorable outlaws.

But to turn to present-day affairs, we see fencing again coming into the limelight of national sports. Methinks I heard a meeting called of all who are interested in fencing to meet with that man Carr, Speedy Carr, Ray de la Montanya Carr, directly after chapel in the rear of Soph seats so that the fencing club could be organized, officers elected, and plans adopted for making the sport a success during the present collegiate year. As a result of the meeting, we observe that Ray Carr was made president, Montanya Carr, vice-president, and Speedy Carr, secretary and treasurer. The team itself is composed of R. de la M. Carr and several others. Speedy, we are looking for some fast work from our team this year, and we feel sure with such competent coaches and the backing of the whole student body, it will show some speed and bring honor to our old Alma Mater. Go to it, Gang, get in there and fight 'em.

LIBRARY NEWS

The following are a few books which have been recently added to the college library:

1. North—By James B. Hendryx. All the readers of this author will be glad to know that he has produced another of his thrilling romances of Alaskan life. One of the most exciting races in all fiction is pitched as the two dog teams run madly over miles of snow and ice.

2. Hunting Tower—By John Buchman. This book is an up-to-date mystery with the touches of a real author added. It has more than the ordinary detective story. The New York Evening Post refers to it as “the grandest of grand yarns.”

3. Cryder the Big Woods—By Shedd. The author gives us, in this novel, a vivid picture of an egotistical, self-confident doctor. He shows the changes brought about in the life of this bully by the love of a true girl and by a few hard knocks. He also gives us a splendid description of life in the big woods.

4. William Jennings Bryan—By Wayne C. Williams. Though this is not a biography of Mr. Bryan, it is a review of the extraordinary contributions he has made to the United States. Probably no man in America has stood so firmly for his convictions, in spite of national criticism, than Mr. Bryan. This book shows that, in spite of his mistakes, he is truly a man who deserves the name of great.

5. Inca Land—By Hiram Bingham. The author gives us in this book a view of the ruins of Machu Picchu, one of the cities of the ancient Indian civilization. It is located on an inaccessible peak of the Andes and buried beneath a jungle. The stone temples, homes, and tombs are evidence of what was once a great civilization. The New York Times says that this is “the greatest archaeological discovery of the age.”

FRESHMAN STATISTICS SHOW MUCH GREENNESS

Statistically speaking, statistics are statistics. Sometimes statistics prevaricate and at other times they are intended to pound only the truths pertaining to the facts. Every year, tables of statistics are compiled, and flaws are found in each table. Even the Wizard statistician, Babson, sometimes compiles tables of statistics that digress from strict truths in minor instances. However, statistics are as nearly perfect as possible.

A table of statistics that has not previously been thrust upon the Davidson student body is one to which very few Davidsonians have given much thought. No one has asked the question, "How much does the Freshman class weigh?" and neither has anyone been anxious to learn the further credentials of this group of verdant youngsters. For that reason, realizing that the large student body should know as much as possible about their baby class, the Davidsonian submits the following table of interrogatory statistics.

Did you know that the Freshman class this year has brought to school 30,348 pounds of meat? Did you know that the average weight of the Freshman class is 134.87 pounds, the heaviest man being 195 pounds and the lightest man, 100 pounds? Did you know that the average age of the Freshman class is 17.59 years and that there are sixteen men who claim to be 16 years of age, while the oldest has smiled on 30 summers, and still has a blissful outlook for several winters?

Did you know that the average height of the Freshman class is 68.2 inches, or 5 feet 8.2 inches, and that, of all the class, the midget is no taller than a stick 4 feet 4 inches high, while, if the long fellow were to pass beneath a natural bridge whose span was suspended 6 feet 3 1/2 inches above ground, he would meet rock?

Did you know that this year's 225 new boys show far more greenness than any previous class has done? To date, the intelligence of the class is lacking, and it is almost certain that, in the typical...Examination statistics as to the input following the 'Psychology' that consumed one of the Freshmen’s nights early in the year, the faculty has a good line on the brilliance and the dimness of the class. A marked degree of speculation shows that the cream of the prep and high schools has risen Davidsonward, but that, psychologically, the thin, a table of 1s ol class, of cream was mighty thin.

WEST VIRGINIA CLUB

Probably the first West Virginia club ever organized at Davidson was formed Saturday night at the home of Dr. Arbuckle. E. T. of the sophomore class was elected president. Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle were made honorary members of the club as it was with them that the idea originated of forming such a club. Plans were made for a big feed to be held in the near future. A ways and means committee was appointed for the purpose of drawing up the by-laws of the club. Another committee was appointed to correspond with high school men in W. Va., in order to influence them to come to Davidson. The present organization is the nucleus around which it is hoped a greater West Virginia club will build. At the close of the business meeting, refreshments were served. The following men were present: Maxwell, Buck, Wilson, Hudgins, Kuykendall, Goodykoontz, Alexander, and Pinkney.

DAVIDSON MEN AT UNION SEMINARY

In the Junior Class at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., this year, the following Davidson men are enrolled: D. P. McGeachy, '22; T. H. Patterson, '22; P. D. Miller, '22; T. L. Fraser, '23; W. T. Baker, '23; P. H. Biddle, '23; G. W. Mauze, '23; A. V. Gibson, '23; J. S. Johnson, '23; M. B. Heizer, '21.

GREENSBORO, HOST TO CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR CONVENTION

The "Quarter of a Century Jubilee" convention of the North Carolina Christian Endeavor Union was held in the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, October 26-28. The convention was the largest in the history of the North Carolina Union, and the registration broke all southern records, approximately eleven hundred delegates registering. Many prominent speakers and leaders in Christian Endeavor were present at the convention. Throughout the meeting, the theme, "Friends of Christ: Friends for Christ; Friends in Christ!" was kept before the delegates in the various splendid talks that were made. The convention text was, "Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command you," and the convention slogan was, "Whatsoever."

Among the speakers were Mr. Clarence C. Hamilton, Boston, Mass.; Mr. Charles F. Evans, Chattanooga; Mr. Frank Wilson, Danville, Va.; Mr. Wilkes Dendy, Gastonia; Dr. Gene Little, Davidson; Mr. John N. Wells, Columbia; Miss Mamie Cole, Chattanooga, and others. The success of the convention was largely due to these speakers. The local Christian Endeavor Training Class was represented by Lee McLean, Lawrence Little, Jim Carn, A. Gilton, A. Y. Bowie, Claude McIntosh, Web Plodekin, and W. E. Milton. Lawrence Little, now at Davidson, was a former field secretary for Christian Endeavor in Louisiana, and he spoke at several sessions of the convention.

The local Training Class here presented the class representative at the banquet. After the banquet, the delegates adjourned to one of the parks in Greensboro and held a "late service" there, taking the place of the early morning service that is generally held at conventions. The convention next year will be held at Richmond, Va., at the same time as the All-South Christian Endeavor convention. The N.C. Union will hold a short business session, but the remainder of the time it will meet in regular session. This plan and its success remain to be seen.

GOOD ATTENDANCE AT RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOL

The "Y" Sunday Schools on the past Sunday decreased a little in attendance. At the different places, the attendance was as follows:

Place. No. Present.
Shearer 70
Mecklenburg 60
Cornelius 70
Hobson Chapel 50
Convict Camp 50
Total 272

At Shearer, after Sunday School, Stith filled the pulpit. His theme was Eternal Life. The Christian Endeavor service Sunday evening was well attended. The service at the Convict Camp is usually conducted as a devotional service rather than a Sunday School. There are usually about 50 men there, 15 of whom are whites. It has been the custom for some member of the faculty or student body to go there on Sunday afternoons and talk to them. Last Sunday, Mr. Jackson talked to them on The Fundamentals of Salvation. At Cornelius, a new class of girls was organized, with W. H. Allison as teacher. At Hobson Chapel, the attendance fell down to 50, which is 15 less than the average. This Sunday School is under the control of the First Presbyterian Church, Mooresville. During the summer, Dwight Chalmers, who had charge of it, did much to build it up.

MINISTERIAL BAND

(Continued from page 2)

The Ministerial Band is making a special effort to use as many of its members this year as possible. A Preachers’ Quartet of Davidson College is being formed for use in deputation work. It takes the field for the first time next Sunday at the Ministerial Band meeting. The local class was highly commended by Mr. Frank Wilson and Mr. Charles F. Evans for the constructive work it is doing, and the benefit it is to the state. Among the features of the convention was a banquet, given at Guilford College on Saturday evening. Lawrence Little was toastmaster for the occasion and contributed in a large measure to its success. After the banquet, the delegates adjourned to one of the parks in Greensboro and held a "late service" there, taking the place of the early morning service that is generally held at conventions.

Have You Got Yours Yet?

We have a complete line of those fancy "Knit" vests, at prices ranging from $5 to $8.50. Drop in and see them.

THE SHOP FOR MEN.
Three doors from the Square
Sole Agents for famous SELZ Shoes
Mail orders solicited.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WILLIAM KONRAD ROENTGEN 1845-1923

Born in Lennep, Prussia. Educated at Zurich. Awarded the Rumford Medal of the Royal Society in 1896 jointly with Philip Lenard for the discovery of X-rays. Won the Nobel Prize in physics in 1901. The General Electric Company manufactures everything electric—from fans to powerful locomotives, from tiny lamps to mighty power plants. Its products are used around the world.

"I did not think—I investigated"

One day in 1895, Roentgen noticed that a cardboard coated with fluorescent material glowed while a nearby Pluecker tube was in action. "What did you think?" an English scientist asked him. "I did not think; I investigated," was the reply. Roentgen covered the tube with black paper. Still, the cardboard glowed. He took photographs through a pine door and discovered on them a white band corresponding to the lead beading on the door. His investigation led to the discovery of X-rays. Roentgen’s rays have proved an inestimable boon to humanity. In the hands of doctors and surgeons, they are saving lives and reducing suffering. In the hands of scientists, they are yielding new knowledge—even of the arrangement and structure of atoms. The Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company have contributed greatly to these ends by developing more powerful and efficacious X-ray tubes.

GENERAL ELECTRIC