THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

REVEREND J.T. PHARR TO BE LOCAL “Y” SECRETARY IN 1924

Former Wildcat Football Star to Succeed Buck Currie As Director of Triangle Activities.

Rev. J. T. Pharr, pastor of the First Presbyterian church at Renick, West Virginia, will be the Y secretary at Davidson next year. Mr. Pharr graduated from Davidson in 1912 and shortly afterwards made his decision to go into the ministry. He completed his preparation at Union Seminary in 1917. He then joined the navy, after which he took up his life work. The home mission work in the mountains appealed to him, so he began his work in West Virginia where he is now located. As he labored among these people, the membership of his church steadily increased so that in a short time the membership had doubled itself. Just recently he has been successful in organizing a mission station into a church.

Mr. Pharr, better known to his classmates as ‘Tim’ Pharr, entered Davidson College in 1909. All four years that he was here, he stood high in athletics. In his sophomore year, he made the Varsity football squad. In the position of left half-back, he was noted for his splendid interference. His last two years were even more brilliant than the first two. He added two stars to his honors in football and was at that time considered the best player by the team.

It was with much reluctance that Mr. Pharr consented to give up his work in the mountains to become Y secretary at Davidson. But he comes to Davidson fully equipped to do the work for which he was secured. He is a man of powerful personality. Everyone who knows him has been impressed with his sincerity and earnestness in his work. His quiet, good nature and frank manner have won him many friends, and it is believed that he will be a great success in his new work at Davidson.

Y. M. C. A. DEPUTATIONS FOR REMAINDER OF YEAR

The Y. M. C. A. Deputations Committee, under the chairmanship of Bill Cooper, has arranged for six deputations to be sent out during the remainder of the scholastic year. On Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, April 28-30, John Grey and Wallace Moore will conduct a series of services in Gastonia, speaking in the various churches of the city on Sunday, and having meetings in the public schools during Monday.

A special deputation, with Leonard Dick as chairman, has been arranged for Concord during the weekend of the second week of May, and continuing through Monday, May 14. With Dick will go Bascomb Sorrells, Wallace Moore, and probably other prominent members of the “Y”. The members of this deputation will be in charge of a “Help Your Buddy” Campaign, which will be a feature of the Boys’ Work Campaign of the “Y”. While on these deputations, the men will address the Sunday Schools and Christian Endeavor Societies.

Groups will also be sent to Shelby, Lincolnton, the John C. Smith University in Charlotte, and in all probability to Greenville, although the arrangements for the South Carolina city have not been completed. The dates and members of the other deputations had not been determined when this issue of the Davidsonian went to press.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS PLAN MOORESVILLE TRIP

The Christian Endeavor Training Class discussed the Christian Endeavor Efficiency Chart at its last meeting. Plans were made to have the annual meeting and feed on Saturday night after the movies. At that time, reports will be given by the different committees on the work of the past year, and officers will be elected for the coming year.

Next Sunday evening, the whole class, composed of twenty members, will go to the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville and put on a Christian Endeavor meeting in charge of the young people. At this meeting, Bracey made a forceful talk on The Ideal Life. Carr spoke on the history, principles, needs, and ideals of Christian Endeavor. After the meeting, a conference was held with the officers of the society. It is of interest to note that this society put on the model meeting at a conference held at Gastonia not long ago. Although a number of the young people are away at school, yet there are eighteen active Endeavorers. Carr and Bracey were entertained at the home of the Presbyterian minister.

EVOLUTION DISCUSSED BY PROFESSOR FOREMAN

At the regular weekly meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday morning, those present were privileged to hear Prof. K. J. Foreman speak on Evolution. He stated in the beginning that he would neither attack nor defend evolution from a scientific viewpoint but that his remarks would be a plain Christian’s view of evolution.

“Evolution is only a hypothesis,” said Prof. Foreman. “It is not an explanation of the creation, but rather a description of that work. It is absurd to make evolution a substitute for God. That is what the person does who says that Evolution created the earth, leaving out divine aid. The wide gulf between life and matter has never been explained by the evolutionist, nor has the existence of the soul; God has supplied both.

“There are certain objections to the theory of evolution. One is that it hurts our pride; we do not like to believe that our ancestors were amoebas or anthropoids. Another is that it is only a hypothesis. This is Bryan’s chief objection. The third objection is that it is inconsistent with the Bible. The last is that it unsettles Christian faith. This it will do if it is allowed to replace God.”

PRESIDENT MARTIN DELIVERS ADDRESS SUN.

(Continued from Page 1)

The college had advanced more in the last decade than in any other previous period. Taking his thoughts from “Thy Kingdom come” in the Lord’s Prayer, Dr. Martin pointed out what we pray for every time we utter the Lord’s Prayer. “The coming of Christ’s Kingdom involves three things: first, the death of Christ; second, the resurrection of Christ; third, the carrying of His Word over the entire globe. These three are equal prerequisites to the coming of the Kingdom because they are equally emphasized in the Bible: the clauses stating these facts are connected by ‘and’.

“Christ accomplished the first of the three when He voluntarily died for us. All the world could not force Him against His will to die. Jesus said to His arresting mob that He could call forth legions of angels to fight for Him if He so desired. Christ willingly suffered and died. One-third was accomplished.

“Then God came to raise Jesus from the dead, thus overcoming death so that we, sinners, who believe in Him shall be raised from the dead ‘on that day’. It looked as if God, himself, was eager to get through with the second step in the coming of the Kingdom, so He raised Jesus early on the third day.

“The third requisite for the coming of the Realm of Heaven is the preaching of the gospel to the whole world. This was left to us to do. 2,000 years have passed and less than one-half of the world has heard of Jesus. The world has heard of Christ for Matthew 24:14 says; ‘And the gospel of the Kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all the nations; and then shall the end come.’ 2,000 years have passed; we are holding up the Kingdom of God because we are inactive.

“It makes no material difference to the individual Christian whether Christ comes in physical form and literally rules a thousand years, or whether there will be a spiritual millennium. Such differences of opinion...”interpretation are immaterial. The thing for us to do is to see that the Kingdom of God comes in our hearts. It is said that if Queen Elizabeth had decreed that the gospel be carried over the earth to all people, 18 months would have found it accomplished by her obedient soldiers. Christ has done His part; God has done His part; the rest of His Almighty plan is left to us.”

TENNIS TEAM RUNS WILD WITH CLEMSON
(Continued from Page 1.)

succeeded in capping the set 7-5. Also in the second and last set the score was even a worse handicap. Fighting against a 4-0 margin, the Davidson captain won seven games, while his opponent took the decision in one. The final score was 7-5 as in the first set. Vic Brown refereed the matches.

Staley, a new member of the Davidson team, was matched against Fitzgerald. He gives promise of making a valuable man for the rest of the season and the two years to come. He took his two sets in fine style, 8-6, 6-1. Fitzgerald furnished interesting opposition for the first set, but in the second Staley’s superior ability asserted itself and he came through with an easy win.

The closest match of the day was between Price of Davidson and Grier of Clemson. Here again fate seemed to play its part, and the lot of the two managers fell together. Besides managing the Clemson team, Grier is president of the South Carolina Collegiate Tennis Association, a similar position being held by Captain Bradley in North Carolina. This is Price's first year on the Red and Black squad, but he early showed his keen playing ability and was elected to the managership of the team. The first set went 3-6 in favor of Clemson. In the second set, the two players handled their game about equally, so that the score ran to 10-8 before Price was declared winner. With the sets standing 1-1, the two men entered the third encounter probably a bit over-anxious and excited; but in a few minutes they settled down to the real work of the day and displayed a fine brand of tennis, Price having a harder time winning the set than the score, 6-2, indicates.

In the doubles, Bradley and Staley were matched against Gray and Grier of the South Carolina team. Viewed from the standpoint of the spectacular, these were the best games of the afternoon, while the tennis expert could see the presence of rare ability in the work of the four men. Staley played a beautiful game in these sets, accounting in a large measure for holding the Clemson raqueteers at bay. Capt. Bradley showed his usual form, forcing the ball at will through his opponent’s defense. Both Gray and Grier played splendid games, looking the sure winners in the first set which they took 2-6. But Bradley and Staley came back in the next two sets and won them handily 6-4 and 6-3.

REJUVENATED WILDCATS ON WINNING STREAK
(Continued from Page 1.)

ford managed to tie the score with her lone tally of the game. Gross, first man up, hit one of Boushee’s elusive curves for a single to left field. Batson was safe on first when Alford threw Gross out on a squeeze play. An error at second left Batson halfway around the diamond, with Galt on first. J. Crawford popped up a fly to Brice, but Lindsay connected up with the sphere for a good single to right field, scoring Batson. Marrow took care of a high one in center field, and the danger of further scoring was over. In later innings, five men managed to get on base for the visitors but succumbed on the paths without registering another tally.

The Red and Black nine, on the other hand, took advantage of their opportunities. In the sixth period, when Murph’s pitching had been shutting out the Wildcat batters pretty regularly, S. Alford stepped up with his willow stick and clouted the pill into the right field fence for three bags. Pat Crawford thought the spot looked good, and placed another one in the same neighborhood. J. Crawford sewed up the fly, but his peg was too late to catch Alford at the plate. The following inning saw two runs trickle in for Davidson, resulting from three hits to center field and a costly error on the part of Wofford. With two men down, Boushee started the fireworks by placing a clean single in centerfield. He took second when Richards landed a hit in the same section of the outfield. S. Alford’s drive to the outfield scored “Bush”, and when Galt missed a throw at third, Richards added another run, finishing the scoring for the day.

Wofford threatened to stage a ninth inning rally, but with men on second and third, Boushee tightened up. The Wildcat pitcher fielded a grounder, threw out a runner at the home plate, leaving Brice plenty of time to catch the batter at first. It was a pretty double play, the kind to leave a good taste in the mouth of a spectator.

Boushee’s pitching was an important factor in Davidson’s victory. The Wildcat southpaw allowed only five hits and kept them well scattered. Our million-dollar infield worked like a bunch of veterans in spite of the fact that only one of them has previously earned a letter on the diamond. Out in centerfield a change was made in the line-up, Tom Marrow filling that position. Tom had two chances during the game, and handled them easily. Vance and F. Alford also performed well in their territory. Murph pitched a splendid game for the invading nine, and with better support would have made a more creditable showing. Nine hits were listed against him, an indication that the Wildcats are climbing up with their batting average.

(Continued on Page 7)

The Girl, looking at picture: “My, Mr. Boyd, this is a perfect likeness of you.”
Sam Boyd: “Good-night, that ain’t me, that’s Lamons.”

Dear Boys: You must be barbarians. This room is disgraceful. There isn’t a single chair in here, what do you sit on?

The World’s Exclusive Agency
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
IN DAVIDSON

For Sale: One good cigar stump, apply to Trawick. In good condition and guaranteed to be strong enough to walk.

Fresh Booth says that he is going to name his first son Opium because he comes from a wild poppy.

Scott: Is Herbert Tareyton a movie actor?

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CANDIES
Finest Candy

Baccalaureate Sermon—First Presbyterian Church, Sunday, May 6th, at 11:30 A. M., by Rev. Alexander Martin, D. D., pastor of the Oakland Avenue Presbyterian Church, of Rock Hill, South Carolina.

Sermon before The Society of Missionary Inquiry, Sunday, May 6th, at 8:00 P. M., by Rev. Walter L. Caldwell, D. D., pastor of the Woodland Street Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.

Tuesday, May 8th, 12 M.—Meeting of the Board of Directors of Columbia Theological Seminary.

Tuesday, May 8th, 8:00 P. M.—Inaugural address of Rev. James B. Green, D. D., as Professor of Theology. First Presbyterian Church.

Wednesday, May 9th, 11:00 A. M.—Graduating exercises in the Seminary Chapel. Hon. John T. Brantley, president of the Board, presiding. Presentation of diplomas and address by Rev. John M. Wells, D. D., president of the Seminary.