THE DAVIDSONIAN; OCTOBER 18, 1923

Town News

On Monday afternoon of last week, the Thelemites club held an afternoon picnic on the MacConnel farm in honor of the Book-Lovers club. The guests arrived at 4:30 P.M., to find a delicious supper being cooked at the big campfire. While this was in progress, various games were played, ranging from rifle shooting to pitching horseshoes, in all of which some star records were made. In the midst of the fun, a band of Ku Klux arrived on fiery steeds whose purpose it was to seek out the man guilty of removing scuppernong grapes from the vines of a Confederate Veteran. The evidence was conclusive against Mayor Hamilton who pled guilty and agreed to pay the penalty imposed.

Following the supper, which fully met the expectations produced by the savory odors which had been permeating the grounds during the play-hour, Prof. Archibald Currie announced the receipt of a letter from Paris making diligent inquiry concerning the whereabouts of Messieurs W. R. Grey and J. M. McConnell, purporting to be in this community, whose peculiar actions in Paris during the summer had excited suspicions. By a unanimous vote of their friends, after much discussion both Pro and Con, it was decided that the desired information would not be furnished.

Following an expression of warm appreciation from Mrs. T. W. Lingle, president of the Book-Lovers Club, for the courtesy extended, the picnickers came back to Davidson in the late twilight.

The many friends of Mr. Edward MacConnell and Miss Lucy Miller are delighted to know that they were quietly married last Thursday. The bride is a charming and beautiful young lady of the finest character. Until her marriage, she held a responsible position with the Southern Bell Telephone Company. The groom, the son of Mr. and Mrs. Jesse McConnell, is of the highest type of Christian gentleman. At present, he holds important connections with the Woodside Motor Company. They are now at home to their friends in Charlotte.

Mrs. T. W. Lingle spent part of last week in Raleigh. Thursday evening, Miss Dorothy Finlayson and Miss Ellen Black were hostesses to Miss Maxwell and Miss Stokes, the charming guests of Capt. and Mrs. Ellis. The game of Hearts was the principal diversion of the evening, after which delightful refreshments were served. About 20 persons were present.

Mrs. Rutledge Withers and Mrs. W. A. Jetton motored down to South Carolina last week, spending several days with relatives and friends. Mr. and Mrs. E. L. Bell and Mr. and Mrs. R. E. Sydenstricker of Lewisburg, W. Va., motored down to be the guests of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle until Tuesday.

DROP IN—For The Best Eats In Town
THE MISSES SCHOFIELD
Always Something Good to Eat
NEW YORK CAFE DAVIDSON

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

FEEDS? W. B. BARNETTE AND CO.
We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

MISS NAN GORDON, Violinist
Carolina Concert Company

Dr. Harding and Dr. Thompson were at Burlington last week. It is interesting to know that the district church has just closed the best year in both spiritually and financially. The reports show that besides paying up the current and other debts, they have also built seven new Sunday School rooms to the church at Fairview. The pastor is planning to leave on the 17th to attend the conference. The prospects tend to an even more bright and successful year for the coming year.

Miss Eleanor Gordon of Charlotte was the charming week-end guest of Miss Dorothy Finlayson. Miss Hattie Thompson was hostess to the Book-Lovers Club last Friday afternoon. After an interesting and entertaining hour of study on architecture, delightful refreshments were served, rounding out an afternoon of pleasure and learning.

Mrs. Paisley gave a dinner party Friday night, October 12th. Dr. and Mrs. J. Croom of Wilmington, Mr. and Mrs. J. Hendrix of Greensboro, and Miss Mary Gaal also of Greensboro, Mrs. W. D. Vinson, Dr. and Mrs. Porter Vinson, and Miss Maude Vinson were invited.

Mrs. M. B. Wood and Mrs. W. C. Wright, both of Winston-Salem, were guests of Mrs. N. T. Smith for the week-end. Mrs. Wood is Mrs. Smith's sister.

CLASS RINGS
The Senior Class Rings are being ordered from Charles H. Elliott, as they were last year, and are ten-karat Old Gold, with a Ruby set. The rings of the class of '25 are also being ordered now. Charles H. Elliott is supplying these also, and they will be practically the same in design and appearance as the Senior Rings. They are being offered, however, ina variety of different dark settings, to please those with particular tastes. This announcement is made in order that those who want their rings before Christmas can put in their orders early. Richards attended the Winston-Salem to in honor of her guests, Mrs. Wright.

CALENDAR

THURSDAY:
3:00 P.M.—Davidson Fresh vs. C. at Rock Hill.
7:30 P.M.—Phi Society meeting.
7:30 P.M.—Eumenean meeting.

FRIDAY NIGHT
7:30 P.M.—Movies, “The Spoilers.”

SATURDAY:
3:00 P.M.—Football, Wake Forest vs. Davidson.

SUNDAY:
10:00 A.M.—Bible Classes.
11:00 A.M.—Morning Service.
1:15 P.M.—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 P.M.—Ministerial Band.
6:15 P.M.—"Y” Service.
7:00 P.M.—Volunteer Board.

MONDAY:
7:30 P.M.—Carolina Club; Shearer Hall.

TUESDAY:
7:30 P.M.—Metrophilian Society meeting.
7:30 P.M.—Pandemic Society meeting.

WEDNESDAY:
3:00 P.M.—Furman vs. Davidson at Columbia.

Concert
MISS NETTIE ALLISON, Soprano
Carolina Concert Company

DAVIDSONIAN ENTERS NEW OFFICES NEXT MONTH

By the end of the month, the Davidsonian will be occupying its new headquarters in the Meth office to the rear of the building now used to house the Davidson equipment. In this new office will be carried on all of the work in connection with the Davidsonian, including staff meetings, functions of the business manager and his assistants, the assembly of the paper, the work of the circulation department, etc.

Not since the disastrous conflagration that destroyed old Chambers has the Davidsonian had any definite headquarters. The different departments have been functioning in any place where they could find room to carry on their work. This room will serve the staff more conveniently and should bring about a closer union between the departments of the staff and ultimately add much to the Davidsonian.

The office space secured for this work is comparatively small and is incapable of taking care of the work in connection with the publishing of the paper. It will be temporarily the headquarters for the South's best college weekly, serving in that stead until a larger and better-equipped office can be secured.

MALLORY, WILDCAT CENTER OUT WITH FRACTURED LEG

Dan Mallory, Wildcat center, who had his leg fractured in practice last week, is recognized as one of the scrappiest scrappers on a scrappy team. Although light of weight to be in the line, Mallory was always in the thick of the fray and when it came to getting down under punts Dan was right there to spill the man in his tracks. Doctors report that one of the bones in Mallory’s leg is partially broken and that it will be fully three weeks before he will be able to use it. Whether or not he will play again this season remains to be seen—time alone can tell that. Mallory spent the weekend on the hill and saw Saturday's game from the players' bench. He expects to go to his home in Charlotte to spend some time and with him go the best wishes of the entire student body for a complete and speedy recovery.

College men like to do things on the run! Not much time to do their shopping—There’s where we shine! We are ready at a moment's notice. Everything that’s needed—smart and correct Fall suits, overcoats, shoes, oxfords, hats, and furnishings.

MELLON’S
8-10 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

For High-Class PRINTING of every description—“Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

What Do You Know About Fire Insurance?

Question 1. Your home is covered by fire insurance. The back porch is destroyed by fire. The original cost of the porch is estimated at $150, but it has been in need of repair for some time and when burned was worth only $100. According to the terms of your policy, what amount should the insurance company pay you? What clause covers this?

Answer: $100, Covered by clause in contract, proper on page one of New York Standard Policy, which reads: "does insure (name of person at interest) and legal representatives to the extent of the actual cash value (ascertained with proper deductions for depreciation) of the property at the time of loss or damage..."

W. E. PRICE
215 Piedmont Bldg.
Charlotte, N. C.

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
THEATRE TICKETS
SODA
CIGARS
PARKER COLLEGE
FOUNTAIN PENS
AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

“What a difference just a few cents make!”
FATIMA