TENNIS FIGHT TEAM SPRING TRIUMPHS FEVER THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923 No. 26

RED AND BLACK DEBATERS WIN UNANIMOUS DECISION OVER TRINITY COLLEGE INVADERS

Cox, Elkins and Hillhouse Present Invincible Arguments. MANY VISITORS PRESENT. Tax Exempt Securities Subject of Strong and Heated Inter-collegiate Debate.

After a long and gruelling forensic battle and in face of the stiffest of opposition, the Davidson debating team, consisting of L. D. Elkins, A. M. Hillhouse, and W. M. Cox emerged triumphant by a unanimous decision of the judges in the inter-collegiate debate with Trinity last Friday evening in Shearer Hall. The query for debate, Resolved: That the issuance of tax-exempt securities should be forbidden by an amendment to the Federal Constitution, with Davidson upholding the negative side, aroused the keenest of attention in the large and appreciative audience. Both teams showed a great alertness of mind and a close familiarity with the intricacies of the issues arising from the question, as well as an ease and force in delivery of the arguments.

Dr. William J. Martin, President of the college, presided over this debate, which was the first ever held with Trinity College. After the invocation by Dr. C. M. Richards, he introduced the speakers in their order; the contestants for Trinity as H. C. Sprinkle, L. B. Hollowell, and E. B. Fisher, those speaking for Davidson being mentioned above. The judges appointed for the debate were E. M. Crouch, Superintendent of schools at Mooresville, Hon. Paul C. Whitlock, of Charlotte, and Maj. J. G. Baird, head of Baird School in Charlotte. Music was furnished by McCain’s Merry Melody Men. After a short foreword by Doctor Martin the first speaker of the Affirmative (Continued on Page 5)

GAMMA CHAPTER OF PHI BETA KAPPA BIDS THREE NEW MEN

Two Students and One Alumnus To Be Initiated Early in June.

At a recent meeting of the local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, W. Payne Brown, F. C. Thames, students, and Prof. S. G. Stukes, an alumnus, were elected to membership. The initiation will take place on Saturday, June 2nd. There will be no public exercises.

The election of W. P. Brown and F. C. Thames about completes the membership of the organization from the class of ’23. It is with sincerest congratulations that the student body receives the election of Brown and Thames. Brown has not been content with studying, merely, but has taken a prominent part in college activities as was possible for him. He served as president of the Reporters’ Club, is a wearer of the Golden Quill and is a member of the Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity. He has also accomplished much in his literary society work. (Continued on Page 12)

PROFESSOR LOMAX DISCUSSES SPIRITUALS OF THE NEGRO

Noted Entertainer Scores Big Hit In His Second Davidson Appearance.

Prof. John Lomax, of Texas, revisited Davidson Tuesday evening and gave a most entertaining hour in his readings of Negro Spirituals. Professor Lomax was on his return from a lecture tour of some of the northern states. He is an alumnus of several universities, Harvard included, and there he is always sure of hearty welcome. He gave some selections from cow-boy songs here on his former evening two years ago and was pleasantly remembered by those who heard him then. The speaker gave a short introduction (Continued on Page 11)

NATIONAL MILITARY SOCIETY TO INSTALL LOCAL CHAPTER

Scabbard and Blade, Honorary Military Fraternity, Grants Davidson Petition. INSTALLATION MAY 8

Twelve Members of the Grenadiers to Become Charter Members of National Organization.

The National Society of Scabbard and Blade—the national honorary military fraternity—has informed The Grenadiers that their petition for a company of Scabbard and Blade at Davidson has been granted and that the installation will take place Tuesday, May 8, 1923. Scabbard and Blade, founded at the University of Wisconsin in 1904, is one of the larger of the national honorary fraternities. It now has upwards of twenty companies (chapters) located in the larger universities and colleges of the United States. Among the better known universities with companies are: The University of Maine, the University of (Continued on Page 7)

WILDCAT RAQUETEERS RETURN FROM VICTORIOUS TRIP

RED AND BLACK AGGREGATION AVENGES DEFEAT ON CINDERS

Currie’s Crew Loses to Terriers But Whips Clemson Tigers on Diamond.

After dropping the first game of the South Carolina trip to Wofford 10-4, Buck Currie’s nine cog machine, with Bascomb Sorrells on the mound,gained a 3-2 decision over the Clemson Tigers, avenging the defeat on the cinders the week before. The Purple Hurricane refused to play on a damp field so the Wildcats returned with a fifty-fifty split.

CLEMSON GAME
Davidson’s Wildcats tore into the Clemson Tigers last Thursday afternoon at Greenville, S. C., and when the fur ceased flying, the invaders were found (Continued on Page 3)

GENERAL OF THE ARMIES
WASHINGTON
April Twelfth 1923

Cadet Major W. J. Cooper,
Headquarters, Da’ Infantry, R. O. T. C
Davidson Battalion,
Davidson College,
Davidson, North Carolina.

My dear Major Cooper:

Your letter of April 7th, telling weekly, "The Davidsonian" April, is to be devoted to the interest of the local R.O.T.C. unit, me upon my return to Washington after an absence of two weeks. Those young men who avail themselves of the opportunity to undergo the military training provided by the Reserve Officers Training Corps units in the various schools and colleges are performing a very high duty. The responsibilities of citizenship require more than a mere passive acceptance of its obligations and certainly more than a willingness to enjoy all its privileges and advantages, while accepting none of its duties. The members of the Davidson Battalion of Infantry, R.O.T.C., should be proud of the accomplishments of their unit, for their individual contributions to its record is evidence of their patriotic effort to perform an important duty as citizens to the Government which fosters and protects their liberty and happiness. They have benefited as individuals and have so prepared themselves that in times of emergency they may be counted upon to serve more ably as defenders of their country and the great principles for which it stands.

Very sincerely yours,

OLD DOMINION
Trail of Blood Left Thru Virginia By Bradley’s Squad.

DOUBLES TEAMS SHINE
V.M.I. and W. & L. Defeated, and V.P.I. Tied By Red and Black Net Artists.

The Wildcat racqueteers returned from an invasion of the Old Dominion with two victories and a tie to their credit. V.M.I. and Washington and Lee tasted defeat, while V.P.I. won the tie verdict. Without a doubt the strongest teams in Virginia were encountered, and several exceptionally good players gave the Wildcats plenty of opposition. A summary of the three matches gives Davidson only a slight advantage in the single matches won, but a very decided advantage in the doubles. Neither the first nor second team in doubles lost a match on the trip, dropping only two sets out of the fourteen played. Hugh Bradley not only held up his rep as champion of North and South Carolina, but also made an irresistible bid for the championship of Virginia. Twice, after having lost the first set, Hugh showed the old Davidson come-back and captured the match by taking the last two sets. The team, composed of Hugh Bradley (Capt.), Harry Price (Mgr.), T. F. Staley, and MacBeall, left the hill for their victorious march through Virginia early Monday morning, and arrived in Blacksburg just in time for supper, which last was unfortunate for the V.P.I. cadets. However, the cadets were good sports, and accepted their cut down rations good-naturedly and gave the visiting wielders of the cat gut a roof-raising yell. The following morning the four Davidson net artists might have been seen inspecting the spacious campus, modern buildings, and student body with all the appearances of General Pershing and his staff (Continued on page 4)

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA BIDS SEVEN LEADERS OF ACTIVITY
Honorary Fraternity Takes Prominent Men From Junior Class.

On Wednesday night, April 25th, seven members of the Junior Class were initiated in Omicron Delta Kappa, the national honorary activities fraternity. O.D.K. seeks to bring together the leaders of campus activities and ordain men from the faculty that their work may be better coordinated. The new men initiated were: R. R. Jones, A. M. Hillhouse, W. T. Jones, C. M. Davis, E. S. Faison, L. D. Elkins and J. I. Smith. The present roll of the organization includes: S. M. Davis, H. H. Smith, R. F. Davidson, G. B. Sorrells, W. J. Cooper, C. R. Crawford, D. H. Ogden, W. S. Buchanan, R. L. McLeod, W. S. Shepherd and L. W. Dick, in addition to the new men.

Fresh Booth says that he is going to name his first son Opium because he comes from a wild poppy.

WILDCATS HUMBLE STATE——9-6