THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

UNKNOWN FRIEND GIVES VOLUMES TO LIBRARY

A friend of Davidson who wishes to have his name withheld from publication has given to the library a set of books that will add much to its collection of war data. “How America Went to War,” is the title of the six large volumes compiled by Benedict Crowell, assistant secretary of war, and director of munitions 1917-1920, and Captain Robert Forrest Wilson. The volumes contain official statements in regard to national activities in those troublous times. They are excellently illustrated with official photographs from the army and navy departments. The generous donor is a Yale alumnus, the books are issued by the Yale University Press, and the statement is made on the fly-leaf that the books are “In commemoration of the work of the 8,000 Yale men who took part in the World War, 1914-1918.”

Of the set The New York Times says: “It deserves a place in the war library of anyone who wishes to make complete the story of America’s participation in the conflict. It is written out of personal knowledge and based on official records.” The New York Tribune says: “‘Lest we forget,’ it is well to have the story fully told as it is in these luminous volumes, with unsurpassed authority and with unimpeachable sincerity. . . . It is a wonderful story that these volumes tell. It gives us a view of some of the most important phases of war activity such as it has hitherto been impossible for the public to enjoy, and a view which is exceptionally fascinating and at the same time instructive and admonitory. It is a noteworthy performance to produce such a work, for present reading and for future reference through uncounted years to come. The narrative might well be regarded as a twentieth-century Iliad, as full of heroic incident and dramatic actions as that which chronicles the fall of Troy. Nor have we yet so far emerged from the war-time conditions of poor paper and slop-work bindings as to omit admiring remark upon the degree of perfection in all the details of mechanical bookmaking which the publishers have attained in these sumptuous volumes. This remarkable series is to be commended in the strongest terms. There are no more important phases of the entire theme of war than those which are here dealt with, and we shall not expect to see them dealt with more authoritatively, nor in a more engaging and convincing manner.”

PANDEINICS AND PHIS TO DEBATE IN FINALS

The finals of the junior-senior inter-society debate between the Pandienic and Philanthropic literary societies will be held the first week in March. Before Christmas, the Pandienic representatives won the decision over the Eumaneans. Those debates were over a question relative to the Kansas industrial court. The query for debate in the finals has been changed and now reads: “Resolved, that it was for the best interest of Europe for France to occupy the Ruhr.” The Phi society will uphold the affirmative and its representatives are J. W. Baldwin, W. P. Brown, and P. J. Story. On the negative side are C. F. Wildman, J. H. Davis, and D. B. Walthall, of the Pandienic. The query under discussion is up-to-date and a vital issue in world affairs today and, as such, bids fair to produce an interesting debate. Last year the Metrophilians won the debating cup and the two contesting societies will fight it out for this trophy. Also in this debate, the best debater on each team will be selected and to him will be awarded the individual society emblem.

JOHN GREY IS ELECTED PANDIENIC EXECUTIVE

For various reasons, the regular program of the Pandienic society was postponed this week. After the devotional exercises, the election of officers for the coming term was held. The results of the election are as follows: J. H. Grey, president; E. Regen, vice-president; W. A. Gamble, first critic; D. B. Walthall, second critic; L. B. Gibbs, secretary; J. R. Maxwell, sergeant-at-arms. These officers will be installed two weeks after the election. During the election of first critic, Sorrells discovered that Bevo Davis, who was one of the nominees for the office, was voting for himself. The house was greatly shocked at this announcement, but the affair was smoothed over with little difficulty. After the election was finished, the remainder of the evening was given over to a feed, which had been prepared by W. T. Baker and his assistants. Baker announced that there were two sandwiches for each man, and one piece of candy. There was some doubt as to who should receive the one piece of candy, but it was later discovered that there was a piece of candy for each man. There were present as guests of the society several men who are prospective members. A few more men from both the freshman and the upper classes may be received into the society before the maximum number is reached.

SIGMA UPSILON HEARS DR. FRASER HOOD

Last Monday night, February 5, the Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held their regular meeting in the Delta Theta Chi hall. There were a good many members absent but those present were honored and entertained by the report of a play, read by Dr. Frasier Hood, the title of the play being, “Suppressed Desire.” The nature of the subject was a psychological analysis and was well portrayed. Doctor Hood gave a full report and it was thoroughly enjoyed by everyone. A committee was appointed to take up the matter of increasing the membership of the fraternity.

FRENCH OCCUPATION IS DEBATED BY EUMANEANS

The regular meeting of the Eumanean society was held Thursday, February 8. On account of the basketball game which was to begin at 8 o'clock, it was decided to have the meeting start at 6:45, and to dismiss in time for the game. This was the first meeting held under the new president, T. L. Fraser. The debate was: “Resolved, that France is justified in entering the Ruhr district.” It provided more than common interest, six freshmen arguing the subject. The affirmative was composed of Barr, Brown, and Smith. The negative consisted of Sullivan, Burgaw, and Allison. All freshmen were dismissed at 7:35 in order that they might attend the pep meeting. After their dismissal, H. H. Smith delivered an oration, “Those Who Went,” referring to the fellows who discontinue school or college work that they may take up what seems like a good paying position. He stated that these men were soon out of work and not prepared to advance themselves.

PHI SOCIETY CHOOSES NEW TERM OFFICIALS

The officers for the spring term were elected at the last meeting of the Phi society. H. K. Russell was chosen to valedictorian, the highest honor the Phi offers. The presidency went to J. W. Baldwin, who defeated W. P. Brown and A. V. Gibson. E. D. Brawn, Jr., defeated W. G. Houck for vice-president. X. Kenneth Lewis was extended the position of secretary. S. R. Sloan got the first critic’s work, being elected on the slogan of “Slow-Ann from Row-an.” H. M. White was elected second critic. Holtshouser, J. E., was elected to be the orderly, or first supervisor; W. J. Calhoun as second supervisor. Lee J. McLean was elected to fill the position of respondent. Members of the Phi feel that they have elected men to the respective offices who will do their full duty in fulfilling the obligations cast upon them by their fellows. It was no easy matter to find the right man for the right place, the ballots were equal for each man nominated in several instances.

THE REEL STUFF

The moving picture management has announced for this week, “Nobody’s Money,” starring Jack Holt. This is an exceptionally high-grade picture with a good plot and interesting narrative qualities. Those who saw Jack Holt in “Making A Man” will remember that he is one of that clean-cut type, around whom the action of the whole picture centers.General popular. Here is what Wallace Reid said about “Knighthood”: “Someone said that costume pictures are unpopular. If that someone is privileged to see ‘When Knighthood Was In Flower’ I feel certain he will leave the theater with a distinctly different idea.” It is said that the reception accorded this picture in New York was most flattering. The New York American said that, “When Knighthood Was In Flower” represents the supreme achievement in the motion picture art.” “Knighthood” introduces to the American public an actor who has not been seen before on the screen in this country. He is Lyn Harding, who takes the part of King Henry VIII. Mr. Harding is well known on the English stage, where he played with George Arliss in “The Devil.” Every decorative detail used in filming “Knighthood” was a genuine antique, or a perfect reproduction of some treasure in an art museum. One set of tapestries used is valued at $125,000. Suits of tilting armor valued at $100,000 were used. Over three thousand costumes, many of them imported from abroad, were used in the filming of this picture.

SEVENTY-SIX BIDS ISSUED (Continued from Page 1)

Pi Kappa Alpha—Falls, R. H.; W. B.; Regen, E. K.; Slitty, M. B.; Jones, N. O.; Ragan, G. W.; Heda, G.; Spencer, W. T.; Frank.

Delta Theta Chi—Kelley, T. M.; W. B.; Smith, G. W.; Brenner, Martin, W. H.; Justice, J. M.

Phi Alpha Pi—Milton, W. E.; O'Connor, Ed.; Claytor, A. B.; Paul; Appleby, J. J.; White, W. W.; Patterson, W. A.

Within the past week W. L. Pomeroy and F. R. Earnest have been initiated into the Delta Theta Chi. Also H. F. Cater has accepted an invitation from Beta Theta Pi.

SPEEDY WILDCAT QUINT (Continued from Page 1)

Substitutes—Davidson: Davis for Mallory, Beall for Davis, Staley (4) for Beall. Trinity: Moss for Bullock, Carter for Crute. Referee: Scorer: Faul. Mauze.

WOFFORD GAME

After the Trinity contest, the Wildcats showed a reversal of form and defeated the Wofford Terriers, 37-12. The South Carolinians were badly handicapped by the loss of Lindsey, their star forward, and made only a meager half dozen points in each period. The Wildcats caged 16 field goals while their opponents were ringing up four and more than trebled the Terriers’ score. No man succeeded in making more than one goal from the floor for the Terriers, while Mauze and Laird proved the high scorers for the Red and Black. Captain George, the Wildcat leader, caged four field goals and tossed in five out of nine free throws for a total of 13 points, and carried off the individual honors for the evening. Laird, with five field goals, proved the next highest man and Pat Crawford and Staley each garnered three. For the Wofford team, Dillingham, at guard, played a great game, and Collins, at forward, hit the rim time after time but the sphere refused to go in. To Sook Boggs, playing opposite Collins, goes much of the credit for the Terriers’ low score. Collins and Boggs played on the same team in prep school and both were picked for the South Carolina prep team. Sook guarded Collins well and only one field goal was made by him.

George Mauze made the first counter for the Wildcats when he made a foul throw good. Red and Pat each contributed two points before Dillingham scored first for the Terriers. Staley and Warhoss then tossed in a pair from the floor, setting the Wildcats ahead by seven points. Collins then shot a free throw, and Laird, Staley, and George ran the count up to 16. A few minutes later the half ended 18-6 in favor of the Fighting Devils. In the second half, the Wildcats duplicated the score of the first frame and added one point, scoring 19 points to the Terriers’ six. The Terriers had the ball under the basket time after time but poor shooting held down their score. The Wildcats have been experimenting at the forward positions in the early games. Laird and Staley make a fast combination, for Red is an accurate shot and T. F. covers the floor in a flashy manner. The work of these two men against the Terriers was of the highest caliber. MacBeall also is playing like a demon and his floor work is superb. He was weak on shooting at the start of the season, but has improved greatly since then. Mallory and Elkins, the other forwards on the squad, are also performing creditably. Pat Crawford is a fixture at one guard position and played a great game against the Terrier clan. Sook’s guarding is of the highest order and Nappy Davis can fill the place of either when they are out. McConnell is also exhibiting a flashy brand of basketball. The absence of Lindsey gave the Wildcats a great advantage as he is one of the best forwards in the Carolinas. Several of the Wofford men were also handicapped by sprains and minor injuries.

DAVIDSON (37) WOFFORD (12)
Staley (6)......... R. F......... Elks (2)
Laird (10)......... L. F......... Collins (6)
Mauze (13)......... C........... Child (0)
Crawford (6)..... R. G......... Dillingham (2)
Boggs (0)......... L. G......... Rogers (0)

Substitutions—Davidson: Beall (2) for Staley, Mallory for Laird, Davis for Boggs. Wofford: Collins for Elks, Gentry (2) for Collins, Williams for Child, Batson for Dillingham. Referee: Scorer: Faul. Mauze.

CONCORD “Y”

No doubt about it now, Concord, Davidson has the better team! The game of two weeks ago with Concord “Y” was a close one, D. C. nosing out by only a few points margin. But on Monday night, on their home floor, the Wildcats piled up a score of 37 to 21, using the second team in the last fifteen minutes of play. The game was a somewhat ragged exhibition of basketball, fouls were frequent, and neither team played up to its usual standard. Concord was unable to locate the basket effectively, while the Red and Black team did not get started on the right foot. At the end of the first half, Davidson had a six-point lead, the score standing 20 to 14. Coming back with a strong attack in the second period, the Wildcats had 30 points chalked up to their credit. The varsity was getting warmed up to real playing when Coach Grey sent in an entirely new team, which added seven to the tally. Captain George Mauze was high-point man for the game, and as usual Warhoss covered more ground than is possible for an ordinary man. Staley and Crawford each roped four pretty field goals and Laird got one. At defense, Boggs played the airtight game for which he is noted, spoiling many an attempt of Concord’s to toss the sphere through the leather. Davidson has more than one mighty good basketball team, as was demonstrated when a new five took the place of the varsity. Spec McConnell trotted down from guard position to toss in a couple of nice ones, Elkins scored two points, and Nappy Davis completed the scoring with a foul goal. Doc DeArmand scrapped in true Wildcat fashion at guard. This team showed some real speed and splendid teamwork.

Referee: Sipley. Scorer: Mauze.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Particulars? A Demonstration
The Remington Standard Portable Typewriter
W. J. Cooper

We are showing a new line of the justly celebrated Earl & Wilson shirts—especially white pongee and oxford, with the new semi-soft collar, at $2.75.
The M. H. Goodrum & Co.
“Prices you can afford to pay.”
Mr. Fiddler
Men’s Furnishings