THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

Pi Delta Epsilon’s contest of 1921-22 was won by William W. K. Freeman, of Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Second prize was won by Shelby H. Atchley, of the University of Idaho; Ralph K. Chase, of Union College and William J. Woods, of Hamilton College tied for third place. Pi Delta Epsilon’s medals, in gold, silver and bronze, are circular in shape, displaying the antique ink-well, crossed quills and symbols of the fraternity. The reverse side is engraved with the winner’s name, date and description of the contest. Thus far, only four medals have been awarded.

DEPUTATION PROGRAM IS BEING ARRANGED

The Davidson Y. M. C. A. is entertaining an ambitious deputation program for this spring. Twenty-five or thirty deputations have already been planned, and it is likely that a few more will be added to the list before the eleventh hour. These deputations are composed of from three to five men, and their special purpose is to get in close touch with the boys of high school age in the towns they are to visit. In their meetings with the boys they will not adopt any cut and dried program, but will confine themselves to three general topics, viz.: High school problems, vocational guidance and college problems, with special emphasis on the Christian teaching applicable to them.

Some of the deputations which have been definitely planned for the coming month are: First, to the Community Y. M. C. A. in Concord, under the direction of J. C. McCaskill. The members of the deputation will be Leonard Dick, chairman, Wallace Moore, Ted Jones and Bob Davidson. Enough men will also go along with Ted Jones to make a quartet, and George McClain will go over for one talk on social hygiene. Second, to Salem College, under the auspices of the Y. W. C. A. at Winston-Salem. Wallace Moore, chairman, and Leroy Burney will have the unique privilege of going on the only deputation to a woman’s college. Third, to the High School in Gastonia, under the direction of Tom Lowry, March 3. Dunbar Ogden, chairman, Harry Russell, and Leonard Dick, will compose the members of this deputation, and Dunbar Ogden will also fill the pulpit of the First Presbyterian Church. Fourth, to the High School in Lenoir, N. C., under the auspices of J. E. Cassell, March 3. Bill Baker, the chairman of the deputation will be accompanied by Bob Davidson and Pat Kimzey. Fifth, to the Y. M. C. A. in Salisbury, under the direction of Mr. Edwin M. Hoffman. The members of this deputation will be Hugh Smith, chairman, Pat Crawford, Bascomb Sorrells, and Buck Currie.

Y. M. C. A. ARRANGING INTERESTING PROGRAMS

Buck Currie is planning to have an interesting and varied program in the future Y. M. C. A. services this spring. Between March 14 and 18, a series of life service talks will be given by Dr. Melton Clarke, a professor at Columbia Seminary. These services will be held every evening, and students will have the opportunity to interview him personally about any problems they might have. Easter Sunday will bring Doctor Fraser of Queens College, to speak at the “Y” meeting. There will be a girls’ quartette with him from Queens. Doctor Ronthaler, president of Salem College, has agreed to be here Mother’s Day. The second Sunday in April, the Y. M. C. A. will put on what they call visitors’ night. Every church within the radius of 20 miles will be invited to come that night and see a part of the thing in action that creates the atmosphere for which Davidson is well known. Davidson is proud of her “Y” services and she wants to show others what they are. Finally, Dr. D. N. McLaughlin, of Norfolk, Va., will be here to speak to the “Y” at the last service during commencement. Some of the engagements for “Y” speakers have not yet been filled, but interesting and capable speakers will be secured for them.

WHARTON AND PRICE COMPOSE DEPUTATION

A deputation composed of D. B. Wharton and H. B. Price, was sent by the Volunteer Band.

VOLUNTEERS DISCUSS NEED OF FRIENDSHIPS

W. R. Kretschmar was the leader of the Volunteer Band meeting for this week. After the devotional exercises, which consisted of Scripture reading by the leader, and prayer, led by Angus McBryde, M. P. Calhoun discussed the necessity of having friends. The environment here at Davidson is ideal for the formation of friendships. Here one is associated with boys whom he should count as friends, but when one gets out on the foreign field he will not have such good opportunities. Many of us do not now realize the value of friends, but they are absolutely indispensable to success, both while one is in college and in later life. A letter from Rev. Plumer Smith, a Davidson man who is now a missionary in Africa, was read. He told of his work there, and sent out the call for more medical missionaries for that field. At present he is about one hundred and twenty miles from a medical missionary, which makes the need for more men urgent.

LOCAL “Y” SECRETARY TO CONDUCT VESPERS

The Davidson student body will hear one of the best speakers engaged by the “Y” this year, at the vesper service next Sunday. Buck Currie, general secretary, will talk on The Rainbow. Buck graduated with the class of ’21. While in college he won a “D” and three stars as one of the best pitchers the baseball team ever had. In his senior year, he was president of the student body, and he filled that office well at a most difficult time. Last year he was principal of the Davidson high school, a position many distinguished graduates of the college have held. Because he has been out of college only one year, because he knows all of the students personally, because he has made a special study of the problems and temptations of students, Buck’s talk will be the most intimate heart-to-heart message the students will have an opportunity to hear. All who have heard his addresses at the “Y” meetings, as well as those who have talked with him personally, can understand why it is urgent that everyone be present at the service next Sunday.

DOCTOR FLEAGLE TALKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND

The Ministerial Band was favored with an interesting talk by Doctor Fleagle, on Paul—his description and why he entered the ministry. There were two questions brought before the members of the band. First, what is there in the Christian religion for the average everyday man? “For the ordinary individual,” the speaker said, “nothing equals the advantages that are offered in Christianity. The average individual finds an explanation of where he came from and where he is going. It offers a hope for something better in the life to come, and teaches of a higher being that has rule over everything, giving a certain satisfaction that He is the only one who can subdue the forces of sin. Christianity is a common sense religion and must be used in everyday life. “As Paul was described in a letter written by a man who had seen him, he was short, bald-headed, had a large nose, and sometimes he looked like a man, while at other times he looked like an angel. He was not a strong, robust man, but well educated. He was a native born Roman citizen, his parents were wealthy, and he was trained at Tarsus, which town was noted for its wonderful system of education at that time. Paul knew Greek, Latin and Hebrew. Being a man of culture, learning and high social standing, he went into a great work that has but little reward in this world.” The second point was: “What is it that draws men into the ministry?” A few men enter the ministry just to have something to do, and those who enter the ministry with this in view never accomplish any great work for the Master. “Some,” the speaker said, “go into the ministry for an emotional effect; they are the ones who succeed only as evangelists. Yet others go into the ministry from a selfish standpoint, and feel that they are only preparing themselves for the life to come. The ones who succeed go into the ministry with a sincere desire to be of service to others and to bring the message of Christ to those who have not heard it.”

MANY STUDENTS TEACH IN SUNDAY SCHOOLS

For a good many years the work done in neighboring Sunday schools has formed one of the chief phases of the great work of the Y. M. C. A. This work, having had its beginning almost with the founding of theare in existence. The college has grown with it and to some extent has kept pace with the other agencies at Davidson for Christian leadership. Each year interest in Sunday school work has been shown by the number of students who have taken part. For the most part, this work has been done in the Sunday schools within a radius of four miles of the college; however, in some cases, it has extended even further.

BAPTISTS BITE DUST (Continued from Page 1)

To Pat Crawford go the honors of the evening in every way. In the first period, he shot five goals from the floor and added one more in the last period, while numerous other heartbreakers refused to stay in the basket. His 12 points were the deciding factor in the contest.

The number of those who are engaged regularly either in teaching, singing, or furnishing music in these Sunday school exceeds 35. However, there are others, who, being interested in the work, attend regularly and fill vacancies made possible by another’s absence. This work is also carried on by some of the students in young people's activities, including both the Epworth League and the Christian Endeavor. One can see readily that this work has a two-fold nature. It not only helps the student and trains him for better Christian leadership, but it also improves the Sunday schools and young people's societies, making them more interesting, active, and efficient.

Of the Sunday schools near Davidson, there are more than 300 scholars taught by 35 college men. These figures, though small, represent what is being done in this department of activity, and they also show the interest that is being taken in the work. In addition to this, it shows that other helpers are needed. This is a constant need, for there is always a place for college men in the neighboring Sunday schools.

LOCAL PASTOR URGES CONFESSION OF FAITH

Belief without confession was the theme of Doctor Richard’s sermon at the Sunday night church service. He based his remarks on a part of the twelfth chapter of John, where many of the chief rulers believed in Christ, but for fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess him. Many of us, the speaker said, are sincere and earnest believers in Christ, yet are so retiring and modest or for fear of our fellowman, or that we are not sure that our belief will continue, do not make a public confession of our faith in him. “No believer,” said Doctor Richards, “will be satisfied until he makes a public confession of his faith in Christ. He will be so much happier, will get much more joy and satisfaction out of life if he lets the world know he is an earnest believer in Christ. He will miss a glorious opportunity of service and of witnessing for Christ if he fails to confess Him.”

EDITORIAL CONTEST IS OPEN TO ALL STUDENTS

Rules governing Pi Delta Epsilon’s annual intercollegiate editorial contest have been approved by the fraternity’s grand council. The unusual interest aroused by the subject, “Physical Development as a Requisite for the College Degree,” has resulted in a deluge of questions at the national headquarters. For the information of every instructor in English or rhetoric and the student body in general, the contest rules are printed herewith:

1. Contest will open January 29, 1923, and will close February 28, 1923, at midnight.
2. Editorials submitted may not exceed 500 words.
3. Type or write legibly on one side of the sheet only.
4. Write an assumed name in the upper left-hand corner of each sheet.
5. On the face of an envelope, write this assumed name, enclosing a sheet of paper on which is written your own name, age, home city, class, and local college address and telephone number.
6. Seal the envelope carefully and pin or clip it to your editorial.
7. Then hand it to your instructor in English or rhetoric or, if not applicable, to the designated contest coordinator.

SMYTH LECTURES

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presbyterian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p.m., beginning Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednesday, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are invited to attend these lectures, feeling sure that they will be highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible through the generosity of the late Dr. Thomas Smyth of Charleston, S.C.

Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
“Sermonic Sources”

Thursday, April 12th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jacksonville, Fla.
“Passion in Preaching”

Friday, April 13th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.
“The Man and His Message”

Monday, April 16th
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.
“Regulative Ideas in Preaching”

Tuesday, April 17th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Columbia, S.C.
“The House in Which the Minister Lives”

Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA
JOHN M. WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary