THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1923

Town News

Mrs. Jas. Copeland of Spartanburg, S. C., visited her niece Mrs. J. R. Withers last week.

Mr. and Mrs. Robert Page of Southern Pines, N. C., spent the weekend with Miss Shaw.

Mrs. Tait and daughters of Norfolk, Va., were guests of Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin and Miss Maude Vinson
last week.

The Woman's Auxiliary observed a week of prayer last week. Prayer meetings were held Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday afternoons. Each
meeting was a study of Home Missions. Thursday afternoon a free-will offering was taken, which amounted to $123.00. Bouquets were
given as souvenirs. Those present were: Mesdames W. H. Wooten, J. M. Blue, D. O. Brown, Everett Booe, C. S.
Goodrum, K. J. Foreman, Lloyd Christenbery, F. W. Hengeveldt, Cloyd Potts, W. N. Mebane, M. H. Ellis, Misses Margarett Adams,
Katherine Potts, and Mrs. Willis Johnston of Mooresville.

Mr. and Mrs. Everett Booe and children, Everett Jr., and Merle, of San Antonio, Texas, will spend the winter with
their father and grandfather, Mr. P. W. Booe.

Mrs. C. S. Goodrum entertained the Sutzu Club last Friday evening. Each member brought sewing. Chicken salad was served as
refreshments. Those present were: Misses Margarett Adams, Sara Lingle, Orrie Steele, Dorethy Finlayson, Ellen Black, and Mrs. J. M. Blue.

Charlotte and Statesville Defeat Opponents in Elimination Series on Davidson Gridiron in Hard-Fought Battles

In a thrilling, hard-fought battle staged on Richardson Field at Davidson, Wednesday afternoon, Statesville High defeated the lads from Salisbury
by the score of 9 to 0. The previous week these two teams had locked horns for five quarters, and
when the game ended they were still locked in a 0-0 tie. The game played here broke this tie. At
the beginning of the second half, R. Brawley tallied for Statesville, making a drop-kick from the 38-yard line, and in
the last four minutes of play, Woodward intercepted a pass on the 20-yard line and scored the remaining points. The
extra point was again made by McNinch.

For the third time in the first quarter, Charlotte came toward the goal and when the quarter ended lacked only
half a yard to go. On the first play in the second period, the third touchdown was made, followed by
a third extra point. Spencer then tightened down and was able to make two first downs in succession but was
forced to kick. The rest of the period consisted of an exchange of several punts, with several good gains by
Charlotte, but the half ended without any more scoring.

MOTHER CHAPTER HOSTESS (Continued from page 1)

Doubles, of Richmond, Va., grand visor. All of these had served during the past year except the grand recorder, who
succeeds M. A. Siske, of Beaufort, N. C. The latter was elected chairman of the extension committee. At 7:30 Friday
evening, the convention’s final session was held, ending with a banquet in the Alpha Alpha chapter hall. Informal in detail,
the banquet was a never-to-be-forgotten session of good fellowship, and speeches, discussion, and yarns flowed thick and fast until the
wee small hours of the morning brought the meeting to a close. In all respects, the first annual convention of
Gamma Sigma Epsilon was a great success. Gamma Sigma Epsilon is a fraternity that deserves the respect and admiration of
every Davidson student.

Mrs. C. A. Munroe of Charlotte is spending several weeks in Davidson.

The Book Lovers Club met last Friday afternoon at the home of Miss Julia Johnston. Mrs. E. F. Shewmake read
a paper, “Greek Architecture as Used in Modern Building.”

Mrs. McRae of Maxton spent the weekend with her son John S. McRae, a member of the class of '27.

Mr. Johnie Richards, Class of ’20, and his brother J. R. Richards of Clemson College, spent the weekend in Davidson.

Mrs. Merle Dusenbery entertained last Wednesday afternoon in honor of Mrs. D. O. Brown and Mrs. Everett Booe. The apartments
were tastefully decorated with chrysanthemums. During the afternoon, rook was played. At a later hour, chicken salad with accessories was
served. The hostess presented the guests with Colonial Candy.

FEEDS? W. B. BARNETTE AND CO. We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

S. & W. CAFETERIAS Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty Charlotte Winston-Salem Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

Always Something Good to Eat NEW YORK CAFE DAVIDSON

Miss Nora Thompson is home from her visit to Laurine, Wyoming, where she spent a year with her uncle. She
stopped on her way to Davidson, in Atlanta, to see her sister Miss Mary Thompson, who is in training at
the Georgia Baptist Hospital.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter Henderson have been called to Atkinson on account of the critical illness of Mrs. Henderson's father.

Mrs. D. O. Brown, formerly Miss Susie Brady, returned to Greensboro after spending several days with her mother Mrs. Brady.

Miss Nancy Grey, who is attending Winthrop College, returned home for the weekend to visit her father and mother, Dr.
and Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Miss Marie Johnston, who has been spending several days with her mother, returned to Charlotte, where she will resume her
work as a trained nurse.

Miss Maude Neile leaves for Dr. Long’s Sanitorium in Statesville, Sunday, where she will undergo an operation for appendicitis.

Mrs. Mary M. Sloop of Crossnore, N. C., spent last Sunday with her sister, Mrs. A. Currie.

Mrs. Arbuckle is visiting relatives and friends in this state and Virginia. She will be gone several months.Spoke last Monday
night at the Second Presbyterian Church in Charlotte, at the “Father and Son Banquet.” The Civic League is making preparations
for a bazaar, to be held December 5th. Fancy articles suitable for Christmas gifts will be sold. Mrs. Doyle and
her daughter of Baltimore are visiting Dr. and Mrs. J. W. MacConnell. Mrs. Doyle is Mrs. MacConnell’s mother. Miss Cora
Burgess of Charlotte spent last Sunday with Mrs. Richards. Miss Burgess is a teacher in one of the graded schools.

THE RETURN OF ALICE JOYCE

A screen event of no little importance is the return to the screen of the gorgeously beautiful Alice Joyce, in
“The Green Goddess,” the Distinctive picture starring George Arliss, which is to be shown here Saturday. When Alice Joyce married
James B. Regan, Jr., one of the wealthiest young men in New York, she announced she was through with the
screen for all time. However, it seems she could not resist the opportunity offered by the excellent part of the
young English wife in “The Green Goddess,” and it required little persuasion on the part of Arthur S. Friend, president
of the Distinctive Corporation, to have Miss Joyce change her mind, once she had read the scenario.

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville
8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius
8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson
8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville
8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman
9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville
9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman
8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville
8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson
9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius
9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville
9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte
10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

Whitaker leaves soon to visit her son. The second drop-kick failed to make the three points necessary to tie. The
next few minutes were a see-saw affair, and the quarter ended with the ball in Salisbury’s possession on the 14-yard
line. At the opening of the fourth period, Salisbury for the third time attempted a drop-kick and for the third
time failed. It was in this last quarter that Statesville showed their skill at forward passing, trying seven and completing
five, gaining 65 yards in this manner. A pass was grounded behind the goal line and the ball went over
to Salisbury, who tried a pass on her own goal line, Wilson of Statesville intercepting it for the final score.

Charlotte-Spencer Game

Davidson students had the opportunity of witnessing the second game in one week in the elimination contest between the high
schools in this section, when Charlotte High handily defeated the Spencer team, 30 to 0, in a one-sided, uninteresting contest
on Richardson Field, last Saturday. The big lads from the Queen City proved too much for the Railroaders and experienced
no effort in running up the score. Statesville was eliminated by Asheville last Saturday, narrowing the number of teams still
in the field to a small number. Charlotte kicked off, and Spencer being unable to make any appreciable gains, returned
the same. Charlotte then marched down the field and in a few minutes after the first blast of the whistle
had sounded, scored her first touchdown, followed by the extra point made by McNinch. A few minutes after the second
kick-off, Wilson, for Charlotte, intercepted a pass on the 60-yard line, and with an open field before him ran for
a touchdown.

CALENDAR

THURSDAY, NOV. 22—
7:30 p.m., Eumenean Society.
7:30 p.m., Phi Society.

FRIDAY, NOV. 23—
7:30 p.m., Glee Club Concert.
9:30 p.m., Junior-Senior Basketball.

SATURDAY, NOV. 24—
D. C. Freshmen vs. Oak Ridge, at Statesville.
7:00 p.m., Movies—George Arliss, in “The Green Goddess.”

SUNDAY, NOV. 25—
10:00 a.m., Bible Classes.
1:15 p.m., Christian Endeavor.
2:00 p.m., Ministerial Band.
6:15 p.m., Y. M.C. A.

TUESDAY, NOV. 27—
7:15 p.m., Pandeinic Society.
7:15 p.m., Metrophilian Society.
7:30 p.m., Basketball.
9:00 p.m., Junior Eumenean.

WEDNESDAY, NOV. 28—
7:30 p.m., Prayer Meeting.

...which will always remain a source of pride to Davidson. It gives to everyone interested in chemistry something for which
to strive—a goal to be attained. Having reached that goal—membership in G. S. E.—the student has opened to him a
new and ever-broadening field of entertainment and knowledge, in the discussion and study of chemical research. The students who have
proved themselves worthy of this privilege and have been received into the local chapter are: W. M. Cox, R. R.
Jones, Marion Murray, G. M. Ford, W. Z. Bradford, J. M. Williams, J. E. Singletary, J. B. Gallant, A. M.
Sample.

Spencer continued in the third quarter to hold the husky lads from Charlotte, and the only scoring registered for the
latter was a safety. In the fourth period, the Queen City boys were able to make another seven points, Sanders
intercepting a triple pass attempted by Spencer, and making a touchdown after a 45-yard run. McNinch for the fourth time
during the fracas added the extra point. This game was of unusual interest to the Davidson students, who witnessed the
game (and there were many who “rushed” the gate), because earlier in the season the Freshman team met the Charlotte
players and were able to win over them, 6 to 0.

Yes, we have good things to eat
The Misses Schofield

BASEBALL FANS AS “EXTRAS”

The mob scenes in “The Green Goddess” call for somewhat emphatic expressions of derision on the part of the populace.
Sidney Olcott hit upon the idea of enlisting some patrons of the bleachers at the Yankee ball park in New
York not far from the studio as extras. Two thousand responded and needless to say they needed no rehearsal in
the matter of registering derision. All Olcott had to say was, “Now, altogether, men, the raspberry!”

The result is one of the best mob scenes ever staged. The yells sent chills up and down Mike Every’s
back. Mike is now a stage carpenter, but he used to be a baseball umpire.

A. C. McINTYRE Box 123

SUITS
Y. M. and sport models, serges and worsteds, blue, brown, pinstripes, plaids and checks

OVERCOATS
Plaids, browns and grey mixtures, plain and belt models

TOP COATS
Whip cords and Gaberdines with belts and fancy yokes

We carry a complete stock of gents furnishings, hats, leather goods, and trunks

Lingle Clothing Company
203 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
