® THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

Alhambra
Friday and Saturday
“The Ace of Revues”
Guy and Elsie Johnson Present
THE DOLLY DIMPLE MUSICAL COMEDY COMPANY
Featuring “THE MALE LUCILLE”
Former Schubert-Keith Star

— — NEXT WEEK — —
“GARDEN OF MIRTH”
Matinee Daily 3:30 Prices, 10-25c
NIGHT 7:30-9 Prices, 20-35c

"Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

The STETSONIAN for Spring
MELLON’S of course

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Bill—Same boat here. Reckon it means The Way of Law. Boushee says economic laws are sure funny. He can’t to
save his life understand: When more eggs are laid, eggs are cheaper; but when more bricks are laid, bricks are
higher.

Fire or Smoke?
Did you notice in the papers the other day, where it was smoke that overcame a fireman at Bryn Mawr
when 70 girls marched out in their night clothes.

Echoes from the Minstrel Trip
At Converse, after the concert one of the fair sex told Okey Allison if he would remove the lawn mower
from his throat he surely would be a singer. Along with John Bryan in his carpentry class, Professor “Skitty Bootch”
Allison is an able assistant. As a token of the esteem and affection of the minstrels, they are awarded the
gold-handled back scratcher, for “those nails” they drove. Let them place them in their respective memory books as tokens.

J. B. Sloan, on seeing a casket in Charlotte, remarked that someone must be dead. Shorty Howell chimes in that
if he wasn't, they were sure playing a dirty trick on him carrying him around the country in a box.

Two of the royal musicians, Finn and Seago, in Greenville, while walking on West Washington Street, culminating in front of
Southern depot, got lost looking for a street running parallel to the depot.

John Simpson states he couldn’t sleep in the Gresham in Spartanburg. He had his door locked and also his window,
yet every time that a train passed by he got a cinder in his eye. Gibson also thanked the clerk
of the same hostelry for allowing him to keep his suitcases in his icebox.

About the only motto on the trip was chanted every morning at breakfast. The breakfast consisted of two eggs, a
glass of milk, and two doughnuts. The motto ran like this: Adam and Eve on a raft—wreck them, coax the
cow once and washers for two nuts.

Hurd enjoyed the whole trip except the Gastonia reception. The house was too big, and worst of all, his feet
wouldn't fit that wax floor.

The quartet, Brown, Jones, McLeod, and Wilson, were presented with a house at G. W. C.—a brick at a time.

Fraser, at the dinner at G. W. C., escorted a young lady to dinner and tried his taurus line and
after the encounter was dismayed to find out that she was the college dean.

For the benefit of the minstrel cast, The Greenville News the other day announced that the organ was finished and
a concert would be given next week. Let’s wire them a telegram: “Praise Allah, from whom all emanate. Our regards
to Count ’Em Out, the tuner.”

A new course is to be added to the G. W. C. curriculum next year: “How to appreciate a performance.”
It will consist mostly of how to register and show delight.

Wilson still thought he was 100 fathoms deep when he pitched his masterpiece “The Rough Ocean,” written on the high
C’s, at Charlotte.

Shorty Martin hibernated on the whole trip. He fell in love at Converse and before he reached Greenville his batting
average was .000. She had turned him down for a Wofford boy after the concert. Moral—Think three times before you
talk piggy, and Harry K. Thaw Russell was nearly run over.

Bill—That I’ll have to replenish old wardrobe quite a bit. There is one thing certain though—even if I have to
go slowly, I’m going to get only stuff of the best quality, believe me it pays. Cheaper stuff may look
just as well when it’s new but it won’t wear. My idea is stuff of known quality bought from a
reputable house. The longer wear will take care of the slightly increased cost.

Mac—Almost thou persuadest me. Once it seems that you've had a thought.

Bill—I take it that means that you and me will visit Mellon’s when next we hit the Queen City—and, yea,
verily it must be soon for I am bereft of much of my raiment.

Fresh—Reckon I'll tag along.—(Adv.)

(To be continued next week)

D. DIXIE.

DOPE (Continued from Page 2)
in a 39-9 win, and the second game at Raleigh was almost as bad. An interesting sidelight on the tournament
is that in case of a Georgia victory over Tennessee, the University will meet Tech, their traditional rivals. Since the
severance conductors wanted double fare.For his being of athletic relations five years ago, they're over six feet. Said they were
carrying only meeting in sports was at the tournament two years back when chance brought them together, and Georgia won.
Needless to say, Tech is hoping for a chance of revenge this week.

Georgia Tech's disastrous trip last week might have a salutary effect in putting a fighting spirit into the Yellow Jackets,
now that they know the full strength of the opposition. Five games were played and every one resulted in a
defeat. Chattanooga, Birmingham A. C., Alabama, Mississippi A. & M., and Auburn were the winners. And yet Tech undoubtedly had
a strong team, which only goes to show that everybody has hard luck.

For lucid over in the “City of Distress” (Spartanburg, for all those ignorant, but we are hoping no one at
Davidson is this dumb), by the fast evening express, which runs through the central part of town. He was looking
at pies in a bakery window when he saw a cop sizing him up. Striking up a trot, he ran
directly into the crossing gates and was saved by the rebound. Earnest lost everything on the trip, even his last
30 cents for a weenie and a Whiz! Bang. Anyone desiring a course in profanity, ship eight pieces of scenery
as baggage. Stand near the baggage car when the baggage master takes hold of it. Your knowledge will be increased
100 percent.

Davidson’s second defeat at the hands of Guilford relegates the Wildcats to fourth place. The University of course comes first.
Wake Forest has defeated Trinity, N.C. State (twice), Elon (twice), and Guilford (twice), and in spite of coming out on
the short end of the exchange with Davidson, probably deserves second place. Trinity will line up third because of her
win over the Fighting Devils, State, and Elon. Both her defeats by Carolina were close affairs and her record outside
of the State is excellent. V. P. I, Lynchburg, Richmond, and the University of Virginia have been defeated by the
Methodists. The Old North State clearly showed her superiority over Virginia when the University of Virginia, about the best Old
Dominion can offer, suffered two crushing defeats at the hands of Trinity and Carolina. At Chapel Hill, the Virginians got
the short end of a 39-16 score.

Down in South Carolina, Newberry and Clemson are disputing the championship. Clemson has a clean slate in the State and
Newberry wiped out the only defeat on her schedule, a 40-32 win by Furman, by turning the tables with a
26-12 victory. Newberry challenged the Tigers but Clemson refused a game on the ground that they needed a rest before
the tournament. When you remember that Newberry is entering too, the excuse is hardly valid and anyhow the decisive nature
of Newberry’s victories makes it look like she deserves the rag.

Once upon a time, the advertising manager of a well-known publication asked a man, “Ever have your hat blown off?”
“Yes.” “What blew it off?” “The wind!” “Did you see the wind?” “No!” “Well, advertising, like the wind, is an
invisible force—you can’t see it but you can and will see the results, just as you saw your hat go
rolling down the street.”—Selected.

The world is always looking for men to do things that “can’t be done.”

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

After Every Meal
Chew your food well, then use WRIGLEY’S to aid digestion. It also keeps the teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen.
The Great American

Burning down, burning down—
Bill—Can it!
Mac—Why so, why so?
Bill—Why so? Exercise your think-tank a moment and don’t talk so much.
(The freshman enters).
Fresh—Say, did you lose much?
Bill and Mac—Say, use your lamps?
Mac—Lost quite a bit; some of it valuable, but most of it not.

HEAD COLDS
Melt Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Use freely before going to
bed.

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

VICKS
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
