THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

RED AND BLACK DEBATERS WIN UNANIMOUS DECISION

(Continued From Page 1)

Mr. Sprinkle, briefly outlined the history of the question and summarized the three main issues of the Affirmative: first, that
the amendment as proposed by Representative Green is necessary; second, that tax-exempt securities are wrong in principle; and third, that
an amendment to the Constitution forbidding the issuance of such securities is right in principle. The speaker maintained that bonds
of the government, of the state, and of the municipality are personal property and should be taxed as such, and
that when the government relieves the taxes from one form of bonds or securities, it increases the taxes on others.
The income tax that was brought into existence in 1916 and, as Mr. Sprinkle declared, was the fairest form of
taxation ever levied, was discussed at length.

L. D. Elkins, the first speaker of the Negative, refuted the statements set forth by the Affirmative with the following
points, which constituted the arguments of the debate as advanced by the Negative: first, the proposed plan is undesirable; second,
the proposed plan would not promote the economic welfare of the national government; third, the proposed plan would not be
beneficent to the states, counties, or municipalities. Under the first of the arguments, the speaker showed that the proposed project
is undesirable because the country as a whole is enjoying a steady prosperity and business is on a more stable
basis than it has ever been. He stated at the outset that the Affirmative faced the burden of proof inasmuch
as they had to show that such a step is necessary, and that if tax-exempt bonds were done away with,
they would better the financial condition of the government and the people. “A holder of a large amount of tax-exempt
securities,” he said, “turns his money into the channels of trade and bears his share of taxes just as does
the holder of securities that are subject to taxation.”

L. B. Hollowell, the second speaker of the Negative, presented in an extremely clear and convincing manner the argument that
tax-exempt bonds and securities are wrong in principle and injurious in practice. “Tax-exempt securities,” he said, “are attractive to only
a small percentage of the wealthy class and do not reach the masses. Taxation should be universal and should affect
everyone alike. Someone must pay, and when the rich buyer of tax-exempt securities pays less, the poor man must pay
more. Capital which is used to stimulate industry is being withdrawn from trade and put in tax-exempt securities.” He claimed
that the issuance of this class of securities prevents the working of a graduated income tax. History, that of the
Bourbon regime in France, was delved into by Mr. Hollowell in an effort to show the evils of tax exemption
in the case of the clergy and nobles of that period.

“The proposed plan would not promote the economic welfare of the National government.” This was the theme of the argument
by A. M. Hillhouse of the Negative and he made it apparent to his listeners that the scheme would be
directly against the best interests of the government. “The government would find no market for bonds subject to the taxation
of a local and state government,” he said. “In times of national exigencies, there could be no funds, such as
Liberty Bonds, raised in such a short time, and the furtherance of public works such as the Panama Canal would
be impossible.”

Mr. E. B. Fisher, the last upholder of the Affirmative, stated that the proposed amendment is right in principle as
it throws the burden of taxation on the rich man as well as the poor. He said that the credit
of both State and National government would be placed upon a sound basis, and that public improvements would be stimulated.
An interesting statement of his was that the land which comprises 35% of the nation’s wealth is being made to
pay 77% of the taxes.

---

FEMALE BOVINE VISITS BIG MACK AT 3:59 A. M.

At last, the sacred precincts of “Hugh John” McMasters' sanctum in Louisiana have been violated by one of the feminine
sex. No longer can “Doug” and “Hugh John” rest secure in their retreat with the knowledge that they are safe
from invasion. This has been the source of much embarrassment and discomfiture to both these two modest youths and as
a result, they are eyed askance by their fellow roomers.

Saturday night at some indefinite time between twelve and six, the door of number one Louisiana opened silently and the
female entered the room where reposed the two comely youths in innocent sleep. With a quick glance around, she walked
lightly over to the bed and gazed at the sleepers snoring away at the rate of five thousand vibrations per
minute. She leaned over Douglas on the lower bed of the double-decker, her hot breath fanning his cheeks. In another
second, she was licking his forehead with her long tongue. Douglas awakened. “Scat out a here!—Hey Mac, here’s a blamed
cow in here, I feel her horns!” said McMaster as he turned over in his slumber. In another moment, the
thoroughly aroused sleeper had turned on the light and was vainly trying to pursue the intruder with a chair. Only
after a chase by both the roomies was the bovine able to be driven from the bed chamber where she
had so stealthily entered. By this time, all the denizens of the dormitory had awakened at the unseemly noise and
had come to investigate. “Hugh John” especially had great trouble in sleeping the rest of the night.

Douglas has not been able to ascertain the ways and means of the bovine’s sally into his stateroom but believes
it was perpetrated by human agency. Furthermore, from the torn-up condition of his room, he says that he agrees with
Kipling, in that the female of the cow tribe is even more deadly than the gentleman species, with which he
is well acquainted.

---

Bob Walker—What do you think of a man that gets up at two o'clock in the morning for a horseback
ride?

Ted Jones—I think he’s sort of nutty. Who did such a thing?

Bob—Paul Revere.As the last speaker of the Negative, W. M. Cox based his arguments on the assertion that the plan
as agitated would not be beneficent to the states, counties, and municipalities. Increased interest rates would make it virtually impossible
for cities to borrow money, and cities cannot sell bonds when buyers have to face four distinct taxes. He gave
a concrete example in the case of Charlotte where a 2% raise in taxes means that $120,000.00 must come from
the taxpayers. He also stressed the fact that the adoption of this amendment would prevent cities and municipalities from owning
their public works. The rejoinders by both contending sides were unusually spirited and forceful. Facts and figures were given by
each side that tended to prove its points and disprove the opposing side. The most practical as well as the
clearest point was made by Hillhouse in his rejoinder when he showed, by means of a chart made for the
occasion, that the government would lose over three million dollars if the amendment went into effect. The result of the
judges’ decision, as read by Doctor Martin, was the sign for a show of great enthusiasm by the audience, which
never doubted for a moment that the Red and Black would win.

The speakers of the evening together with the judges and several visitors were the guests of the Gavel and Forum
Club after the debate and were entertained with a reception. It is of interest to note that this is the
thirtieth debate in which Davidson has engaged since the founding of the college. Of this number, the Red and Black
debaters have won twenty and lost only a scant ten, not one of them ever being lost at Davidson.

Sheik Mauze Knocks ’Em Cold. George Mauze is the original Apollo. His greatest success was accomplished in Greenville. The young
lady kept George out in her car until the early hours of the morning. But to the members of the
team who saw the manner in which George said goodbye to her at the station the next morning, they wonder
how he got home at all.

Windy—Well, you were hitting so many keys I couldn’t tell which.

THE HOT BOX
By Jack Austin

Heard on Greek Class: “Now indeed,” Mr. Allison, “most worthless and most wretched of all men—”

The “fire” in chapel Monday morning caused quite a disturbance. The speaker seemed to be thoroughly frightened but after being
assured that there was no real fire he certainly made a good talk.

New agonies are added to the roster of Royal Musicians on the Hill, Dick Littlejohn has bought a Banjo. What
about christening the first floor of West, L’Enfer. It would be a very appropriate name but for the fact that
there is always so much water flowing. Moral: Never enter West without having on a raincoat.

Note found pasted on the door of 205 East: “Dear boys, Davidson has plenty of water now and the Drug
store is still selling soap.”

Glad to see you back with us again Hypo. You had a hard game this year but hope you'll be
“back” with us on the football team next fall.

Ted Jones is the new President of the Dramatic Club for the coming year. Everyone is looking for great things
from this organization.

How about the dumb-bell on the last Physics review who wanted to know if a D. C. generator was one
made at Davidson College?

The prize bone of the season has now been shown. The D.C. Heath Publishing Company, of Atlanta, sent nine copies
of Racine’s Phedre, written in French, to the Davidson Cotton Mills. At the worst it wasn’t so bad though, for
the French III class got a “cut” on account of the books not arriving on time.

What do they mean “Senior Wrangler”? You may not have met one of those dear old boys,—Oxonian stuff, what, what?—but
our idea of a senior wrangler is a ’23 man trying to work up a lather with the wrong kind
of shaving cream. There’s no “wrangling” necessary to get a lather with Williams’ Shaving Cream. Squeeze out a spendthrift’s dab
or a tightwad’s dab—it’s all the same. Either way you get a big, efficient lather that softens the beard right
down to the base of every hair. And best of all, this big Williams’ lather has a decidedly beneficial effect
on your skin. No complexion soap could do more for you than Williams’ does every time you shave. Get a
tube of Williams’ today and begin giving your face this helpful care. Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and
the tube hangs up!

DAVY EXPERIMENTING WITH NITROUS OXIDE, according to the science of a century ago, was “the principle of contagion when respired
by animals in the minutest quantities.” Mere say-so. Imaginative yet skeptical Humphrey Davy, who believed in experiment rather than in
opinion, “respired” it and lived. It was this restless desire to test beliefs that made him one of the founders
of modern science. Electricity was a new force a century ago. Davy used it to decompose potash, soda, and lime
into potassium, sodium, and calcium, thus laying the foundations of electrochemistry. With a battery of two thousand plates he produced
the first electric arc—harbinger of modern electric illumination and of the electric furnace. Czar Alexander I and Napoleon met on
a raft to sign the Treaty of Tilsit while Davy was revealing the effects of electricity on matter. “What is
Europe?” said Alexander. “We are Europe.” The treaty was at that time an important political event, framed by two selfish
monarchs for the sole purpose of furthering their personal interests. Contrast with it the unselfish efforts of Sir Humphrey Davy.
His brilliant work has resulted in scores of practical applications of electrolysis in industry and a wealth of chemical knowledge
that benefit not himself but the entire world. In the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company, for instance, much
has been done to improve the electric furnace (a development of Davy’s arc) and new compounds have been electrochemically produced,
which make it easier to cast high-conductivity copper, to manufacture special tool steels, and to produce carbides for better arc
lamps. General Electric Company, Schenectady, N.Y.
