THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1923

ALUMNI NEWS

REV. DR. DUNCAN THOMAS ’06 ACCEPTS A CALL TO A LARGER FIELD.

Word has come to Davidson that one of her alumni has been the recipient of a decided honor by being called to the pastorate of Bradentown, Florida, from his temporary position at Fitzgerald, Ga. This is Rev. Dr. Duncan Thomas, whose name will strike a chord of pleasant memories in the minds of some of our old students. He preached his first sermon in the new place during the early part of February, and his hearers were so struck by his display of intellect, his spirit, and pleasing personality that they hesitated not one moment in sending him the call which resulted in bringing him to Bradentown.

The college is always glad to hear of what her offspring are doing. She is watching with deep-felt interest each one as he goes through his life and any item of his activities is always received and read with enthusiasm. Throughout the years there has gone out from Davidson a constant stream of young men eager to work with and for their fellow-men. They have been called into professions, without number, not the least of which is the preaching and teaching of God’s word.

In the fall of 1906, there came to this institution a young man, Mr. Duncan Thomas, from his native haunts of Virginia. He came from a family well-known in the world of Christianity, and he had before him a line of ancestry who were all workers of God. Arriving at Davidson, Mr. Thomas immediately became actively engaged in college life and activities. As a star on the varsity squad, he took part in the decisive defeats of the University of Georgia, Georgia Tech, N. C. A. & M., V. M. I., Auburn, Annapolis, and all the other old-time rivals of the Red and Black.

During the spring of 1909 and 1910, Duncan occupied a very important position on the track team. He ran the middle distances for the college and during the meets of 1909 set an All-South record in both the quarter and half-mile runs. This superior ability of Mr. Thomas seemed to transmit itself to his teammates and it was the chief cause of Davidson’s high stand in those days. He also helped in putting out one of Davidson’s best college annuals at the close of his Senior year when he was business manager and editor-in-chief.

After finishing Davidson, Mr. Thomas went to Union Seminary from whence he graduated in 1915. From then on his work among the churches has been worthy of considerable note, but it is only now that he is receiving his real due. He has accepted the call of the Presbyterian church of Bradentown, a field where we are sure the abilities of the new pastor may be manifested. The Presbyterians of this town are to be heartily congratulated on securing the services of one so highly gifted as Dr. Thomas. With the best of wishes from his host of friends and the blessing of his alma mater, he took charge of his new church on March 4th.

March 12th, 1923.

Editor-in-Chief, The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.

Dear Sir:

Have just finished reading the last issue of The Davidsonian and thought I would tell you just what I think of it. Of course, being an old Davidson man, anything pertaining to the college is of interest, but leaving out that connection, I think it is the best gotten up weekly I have ever seen. The contents are well edited, cleverly written, and diversified to make it complete. It is the one medium to keep the Alumni in touch with the active happenings of the college, and I have heard many of them voice the same opinion as to how well pleased they were with it. Back in the good old days of 1915 when the paper was organized it met with much opposition, and it is indeed gratifying to see how successfully it has turned out.

With best wishes for continued success, I am,

Yours very truly,

JAS. H. CARSON, ’16.

SENIORS HOLD SMOKER AND MAKE MANY PLANS

The Seniors are getting gay in their old age! In other words, as time rolls by and graduation draws near, the more elderly members of the student body, those who wear the derby and sport the cane, are planning big things for their remaining existence as honored Seniors and their longer existence as alumni.

At the Senior Smoker held last Saturday night after the movies, the class attended to important business and discussed the idea of appointing a secretary for the class to hold office after his college days are over. Each member of the present Senior class will be expected to write the secretary a letter discussing plans for the advancement of the Alma Mater. The secretary will in turn send copies of each letter to the members of the class. In this way, the class expects to remain organized and active.

Plans for a Senior farewell banquet at Myer’s Park Country Club were also discussed. If present plans are carried out, the Seniors will rate ace high with their full dress and one “Fire” apiece. Leonard Dick made a report for the Court of Control in regard to its activities. He said that every man who had been before this board had spokenhis approval of it and expressed the opinion that he has been helped by it. The Seniors then elected the following officers: H. K. Russell, Class Poet; W. J. Cooper, Historian; Joe Baldwin, Commencement Orator; and R. L. McLeod, Dispenser of Class Gifts. The Seniors are planning a big rush as a fitting climax to cap their four years of eventful life.

THE FORWARD LOOK

Last Monday morning saw the first of the student body elections for the coming year. Other elections will follow before long. The election for student body president will come soon. A writer in the Forum recently urged that we consider carefully the qualifications of all nominees for the particular office for which they are suggested. It is hoped that the Freshmen will pay particular attention to this, and that the upperclassmen be careful too. Popular men will probably be offered, and of course popularity is one desirable qualification, but popularity alone won’t enable a man to lead our student body or our Y.M.C.A. Fellows, let’s be careful and not let our feelings run away with our reason. The men chosen for these offices will determine largely how things will run here next year. Only men of real high ideals and courage in standing up for them are worthy of our votes. Vote, and think clearly before you vote. The Junior Class has sufficient good men. Let's not pass the best ones by for weaker ones.

—B. WARE. D.

Be not simply good, but be good for something. —Thoreau.

Cosmopolitan Corporation Presents
MARION DAVIES
in
“When Knighthood Was in Flower”
The world-famous romance in a million-dollar setting of dazzling splendor. Directed by Robert Vignola.
A Cosmopolitan Production

CANDIDATES STAGE BATTLE
(Continued from Page 1)

There seems to be no reason why the Wildcats should lack for pitchers this year. Besides the three letter men who can toss a mean pill, Potts, McLaughlin, and Bub Johnson are showing up well on the mound. These Freshmen all carry good records from prep school and with a year or so of training ought to furnish ample material for the Red and Black hurling staff. Behind the bat Brice, Black, and McDonald are running a close race. Here again, a couple of first-year men are pushing a wearer of the “D” for a place on the battery. In the infield only one man has returned from the ’22 team—Pat Crawford, captain for the season. Pat never misses one at first base, so that post is well taken care of. Kugler and Smith are other promising candidates for a place at the first corner of the diamond. Second base probably will be in charge of McCoy, Robins, or Bachmann, all of whom are doing well. A berth at shortstop is being hotly contested between Simpson, another man of some experience, and Sappenfield, fast little quarterback on the Freshman eleven last Fall. Covington and Long are the most outstanding figures around the third sack. Ted showed some real form last year and is running true again, while Long’s work is more than satisfactory. In the outfield there is a lot of good material, but the three positions seem to lie between Richards, Vance, Olford, Marrow, and Wells. Some of these men are handling the willow over home plate in Ty Cobb style, a good indication that Davidson will have plenty of pinch hitters. Practically every man trying out for baseball will be given an opportunity to demonstrate his ability on next Saturday afternoon, when a practice game will be held on Sprunt Field. This game will no doubt be a determining factor in the selection of a nine for the first game of the season, on March 30th, when Oak Ridge invades local territory. In spite of the fact that only five letter men are out this season, Coach Buck and Captain Pat are pleased with the large number of experienced men who are available for the squad, and anticipate a successful season. Dutch Hengeveld, college registrar, is assisting with the coaching—assistance of no mean value, since Dutch was a winning pitcher in the Southern League for several years, and later successfully coached the Davidsonians. Manager Elliott had the interest of the students at heart when arranging the schedule, for out of 21 games slated for the season, eleven will be played on Sprunt Field. That means every student will have a good opportunity to see the Wildcats in action on the diamond and to get in behind the team and support it.

He who is slowest in making a promise is the most faithful in the performance of it. —Rousseau.

HEADQUARTERS
All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL"
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Fire insurance is considered essential to the conduct of business but many men of affairs overlook insuring that which is behind all business, their health.
McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.