THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 8, 1923

Alhambra
Friday and Saturday
Carl Armstrong and his Big Musical Comedy

— NEXT WEEK —
“The Blue Ridge Lasses”
Matinee Daily 3:30
Prices, 10-25c
NIGHT 7:30-9
Prices, 20-35c

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

SHIRTS: MELLON’S of course

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh
221, West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

We accept the challenge flung at us. Tubby Woolfolk and Bevo Davis now hold a very unique college honor. They are the only two in the history of the college that ever broke up church on Sunday morning.

“Charles Paddock” Galloway certainly ought to have picked out wonderful track material Sunday. Even Orbuthnot clipped off the distance in six flat.

Pat Crawford is awarded the wicker worked punch bowl and George Mauze the fur-lined tea cup. The former sweetly snoozed with flames licking his very cheeks, but was unmoved, and the latter whistled Twelfth Street rag in the showers while the old edifice rocked and reeled with flames. To Frank Wildman goes the consolation—a rubber teething ring. He was reading in his room, the ceiling above and the hall outside looking like Pittsburgh on a real smoky day.

“How I rescued One Punch Logan From the Burning Flames.” Fresh Clater also reports that besides saving his eyeshade, he managed to save a cigarette duck left over from Saturday night.

Rah, rah, rah, rah, rah, rah,
What’s all the excitement? Blanco White lost his smoking jacket Sunday.

A Georgian’s Testimony
Georgia certainly hates to have to look at Rumple the rest of the year. We enjoyed looking at Watts or at least we had become accustomed to them. Why Rumple doesn't even know the first principles of dormitory hollering when the lights go off suddenly, like Watts did.

New Management
I am manager for the Mauze, Lindamood Wrecking Crew, Inc. We want additional buildings desiring quick conquering. Nothing considered but buildings in good working condition and capable of putting up a good fight. For references write the Singer Building, New York, whose base we rocked for sixty seconds last week.
R. L. McLeod, Box 1703, Davidson, N. C.

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of ’26, who constantly craves information. It is our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Mac—
A curious man of the human clan
Is a man who fools himself,
Who thinks he can swing the Pierian spring
Through a conduit of books on a shelf.
Who thinks—

Bill—Cut out the chin music just for once, will you?

Mac—Oh! you don’t know good stuff when you hear it. Say, where in the sam-hill is my shirt—I mean the clean one.

Bill—Another instance of a “curious man who fools himself.” You couldn’t make me mad if you would buy a few more good ones.

Mac—In order to help you maintain a peaceable state—

Bill—Good! Mellon’s says whites, pongees and tan and grey pongees in broadcloths, and Oxfords are high scorers. Better pay them a visit.

Mac—Mellon’s is my meat.—(Adv.)

(To be continued next week.)

Wanted
Bright boy desires position to stand on burning building. Temperature no object. References furnished.
Bill Mauze, Box 3876, Davidson, N. C.

A young kid only fourteen years old won the horseshoe tournament at Miami last week, but we won't acknowledge his championship until he beats George Hodgin and Ed. Brown.

Convicts 747 through 753 won their letters and new uniforms last week and reported to their respective dormitories for janitor service. They look like a parade of the Swiss Navy in full dress.

The movie magnates of Davidson have evidently been attracted by the glamour of the filthy lucre—first it was “Nobody’s Money,” then “Back Home and Broke,” and the next cinema attraction is “When Knighthood Was In Flower”—probably some “dough” in that!

1. Harold Conington wearing a fresh cap?
2. A noiseless West?
3. Stud Dunbar flunking a ticket?
4. A perfect spelling lesson in English IV?
5. A “horseless” fresh class?
6. A world without Greek culture?
7. The Davidsonian coming out on time?
8. A Great Britain-less map?
9. A generous absence committee?
10. A chapel cut one morning?

Friend Walthall doesn’t know whether to have a girl up for Junior Speaking or go to the Volunteer Conference. His peace parley has gone on the rocks and he has recalled his ambassadors when...last interviewed. A statement was made to the Fresh French class the other day that the inscriptions recently unearthed in King Tutankhamen’s tomb are as nothing in comparison with the hieroglyphics that he finds on some of his French papers.

Bible Prof.—Now, Mr. Justice, can you tell me who was one of the first patriarchs?
Fresh Justice (scratching his head)—Why—no—er—I—
Bible Prof.—Exactly right, Mr. Justice.

Ashes to ashes,
Sticks to sticks,
If you keep a girl now
You've gotta have a super-six.

The fad at chapel exercises these days seems to be club meetings. Why not organize a K. K. K. to rid the campus of its numerous dogs and dusty “blacks” roaming around loose.

Weedon wishes to announce through the columns of the Peanut Parcher that his recent dressing up has nothing to do with his campaign for the handsomest man in the Junior Speaking group.

Have you noticed Houck and McLaurin scaling the outside walls of Shearer Hall and West like a skylark and back to earth like a mud hen? If the flag pole ever develops cobwebs and needs cleaning, page these two Houdinis—they guarantee satisfaction. (We might encourage these two gallant scaling bugs with the promise that we are reserving sufficient obituary space for them in these columns.)

A Mystery
Red McCombs can’t understand why they gave 15 rahs for him at the picture show Saturday night when every night when he’s home he goes to corn shucking, barn dances, fiddlers’ conventions and spelling bees with girls and never gets an ovation.

If two and one is shoe polish and three and one is oil, what’s four and one? It usually is five, but if it is four unexcused absences and one excused, it’s the dickens to pay.

Speedy Carr caps the climax! He has taken up fencing. Guess he is planning to be prepared to fight the next fire or get a job with Rhoda Royal Circus swallowing one of the things.

Fresh Seago has volunteered assistance in repairing all dilapidated typewriters. His experience was gained after the disastrous Watts conflagration—at the expense of Speedy.

MYSTERY SURROUNDING “D” PIN IS CLEARED
Is the world coming to an end, or is Davidson going to get a swimming pool? Are co-eds eligible for college athletics? Are there any lady members of the D Club, or is there some other way in which members of the weaker sex can get to wear the D pin? These were a few of the excited questions that were asked some few weeks ago at the Trough, when it was discovered that Miss Eliza, the cook, was wearing a D pin. Excitement ran high and many and startling were the hypotheses suggested as to how she came by the pin. When interviewed on the subject, she maintained that she had played center on the football team. Many people upheld her in this argument, but others contended that it was only her innate modesty that forbade her revealing the member of the D Club who had been vamped by her mad airs and had presented her with the pin as a token of his devotion. The only members of the D Club who work at the Trough are George Mauze, Pat Crawford, and Hugh Bradley. George was considered and declared “Not guilty” because he came from West Virginia. Pat was considered and declared innocent on general principles. Hugh Bradley was likewise considered, but suspicion pointed her accusing finger at him. It was testified that he had been unwontedly absent-minded of late. He had raved much of the mystic effect of the moonlight, it was maintained, relating rapturously how the magic moonlight was able to cast a halo of beauty about anyone's head. What has clinched the matter in the minds of many, and given sufficient proof to make the hypothesis a plausible theory, is the fact that, no sooner was Hugh Bradley burned out of Watts than he immediately picked up his tennis racket and moved to the Trough.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

AIDS for STUDENTS and TEACHERS
The new Handy Directory of time-saving study and Self-help books is now ready for mailing. It is printed in two colors and contains a story by Christopher H. Write. There is NO CHARGE while the edition lasts. Write today to secure a FREE copy. Address The Handy Book Corp MAIL DEPT. READING, PA.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SORE THROAT
For tonsillitis or hoarseness, gargle with warm salt water. Rub Vicks over throat and cover with a hot flannel cloth. Swallow slowly small pieces.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

and give your stomach a lift. Provides “the bit of sweet” in beneficial form. Helps to cleanse the teeth and keep them healthy.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.

PIANOS
CHARLOTTE