86 Years Old

THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. NOVEMBER 8, 1923

Pep Rules

D.C. No. 8 Highway Dedication Features Big Celebration

SUPERIOR WEIGHT of Wolfpack Defeats WILDCATS 12-6

Governor Morrison To Address Crowd

N.C. Collegiate Press At Davidson College Day Celebration

Armistice Day, Davidson College Day, and Dedication of Davidson College Highway Combined In Nov. 12 Festivities. Concerts, Speeches and Athletic
Contests Feature Program

In the celebration of the dedication of the new highway between Charlotte and Statesville, with which will be combined Founders’
Day and Armistice Day celebrations, Davidson will witness, next Monday, the most colossal festivities pulled in these parts in many
moons. Mr. F. L. Jackson, in charge, announced today that plans are almost complete for the gala event of the
year. Plans, as announced by Mr. Jackson, are for a full day of celebrations and fun. Davidson College will declare
the day off and Davidson business houses will be closed most of the day. Starting early in the morning with
band concerts and a military review, events will continue in rapid order until the final whistle blows on a polo
game which is planned as the closing event.

The main events of the day will pertain to the dedication of the new highway which has been officially named
by the State Highway Commission as the Davidson College Highway. These events will come immediately after dinner and will feature
an address by Governor Morrison and talks by Honorable Frank Page, Chairman North Carolina Highway Commission, and Mr. W. C.
Wilkerson, Sixth District Highway Commissioner. Speaking will begin at 1:45 at a band stand to be erected between Phi Hall
and the First Presbyterian Church, on the campus. Plans for the morning are almost complete. The program will start with
a band concert by the Davidson College Band, which (Continued on page 8)

Subject Named For Debate With Va. University

Preliminaries Will Be Held Wednesday, November 4th

The Washington and Lee-Davidson debate will be held here on December 14th, with Davidson upholding the negative of the query,
Resolved, That the Present Immigration Law Should be Re-enacted. This query was presented by Washington and Lee.

Volunteer Convention Is Set For Indianapolis, Ind.

Davidson Allowed Six Delegates to National Meeting

The Ninth International Convention of the Student Volunteer Movement will be held at Cadle Tabernacle, Indianapolis, Indiana, beginning Saturday, December
28, 1923, at 2:30 P. M. and closing on the evening of Tuesday, January 1, 1924. The first convention was
held in 1891, 680 delegates being present from 51 institutions. The last convention was held in 1920, when 6,890 delegates
were present, representing 949 institutions. These conventions are held only every four years. The purpose of the convention is to
emphasize the solidarity of mankind and the interdependence of all nations and races, to present Christ as the hope of
the race, demonstrated by the transformations wrought in individual life and in the structure of society wherever He has been
accepted and His principles have been courageously acted upon; to present to students data concerning world conditions; to realize the
(Continued on page 6)

Critical Ass'n Meets In Durham

Trinity College Host for Fall Meeting of College Journalists NOVEMBER 15-17

Representatives of Davidsonian and Magazine to Make Trip

The fall convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will be held at Durham, November 15th, 16th and 17th,
with a large delegation on hand representing the collegiate magazines and newspapers of the state. Trinity College is host for
the semi-annual meeting. Efforts are already under way to secure Hon. Josephus Daniels, former Secretary of the Navy and now
editor of the News and Observer, of Raleigh, as the principal speaker of the convention.

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association was organized in 1920 through the influence of literary students of Davidson College. J.
Eris Cassel, a graduate of Davidson in 1921, and former editor of the Davidsonian, served as the first president of
the association. The work of the organization covers the field of the college newspaper and magazine in the state. To
date there are nine college magazines and 13 college newspapers holding memberships in the association. Each member will send delegates
to the Durham convention, which will represent the literary circles of their college. The officers of the North Carolina Association
are as follows: Liston D. Elkins, of Davidson, president; J. R. Killian, of Trinity, first vice-president; George Allen, of Trinity,
second vice-president; Miss Sara Thomas, of Queens College, secretary; Miss Ruth Hadley, of Greensboro College for Women, treasurer; and R.
R. Jones, of Davidson, anthology editor.

Publications holding memberships in the press association are as follows: The Acorn, Meredith, Raleigh; (Continued on page 12)

Covington Receives Fifteen Yard Pass, Runs Twenty-five Yards for Touchdown

Holland Crosses Wildcat Goal Line Twice In Second Period For State Scores. State’s Husky Line Holds Like Stone Wall Against
Wildcat Attack In Final Period.

The crippled Wildcat limped back to his lair, after the gruelling struggle with the Wolfpack from N.C. State, last Saturday
afternoon. The score was 12 to 6. In the second period, Holland, the Aggies’ left halfback, crossed the Wildcat's goal
line after his running mate, Covington, made a spectacular reception to score.

J. Stitt Wilson To Speak On Spiritual Renaissance

J. Stitt Wilson, a nationally-known sociologist, will speak on “The New Spiritual Renaissance” in Shearer Hall, Friday, November 10th. Davidson
has been fortunate enough to induce him to include this college among those of the South which are having the
privilege of hearing him. Mr. Wilson is acknowledged as one of the most profound students of social and industrial problems
in America. This lecture offers an opportunity of inestimable value to the students of Davidson and by availing themselves of
it they will profit greatly. Mr. Wilson, like many of his fellow Californians, has proved himself highly versatile. A few
significant facts concerning him will indicate the scope of his abilities and the wideness of his achievements. He is a
college graduate with degrees, B.A. and M.A. He has done post-graduate work in departments relating to civics and social andmuni-
He has been registered as a Ph.D. candidate at the University of California. He spent six months (Continued on page
6) cipal problems.

TOM SKEYHILL, AUSTRALIAN POET AND ORATOR LECTURES ON “THE NEW RENAISSANCE IN EUROPE”

The choice of sides was given to Davidson. Noted Lecturer Shows Views of Young Men of Europe On Social and
Religious Problems of the Day. This seems to be a timely subject and broad enough to warrant a good debate.
The preliminaries to choose the two members of the local team with an alternate will be held on Wednesday night,
November 14th. At this time all men trying for a place on the team will meet and from the number
the three men will be chosen irrespective of the side they may uphold and solely upon their speech. At all
previous debate preliminaries both sides of the question have been supported, and to make competition keener this should always be
the case. As this will be a two-man team, greater work and longer speeches will necessarily be required of the
principals. However, as is customary, only 12 minutes, to be used for both main speech and rejoinder, as each man
sees fit, will be allowed for the preliminaries. This is thought advisable in view of the probability of a large
number of contestants. It is of course to be understood that since (Continued on page 12)

Tom Skeyhill, the Australian poet, soldier and orator, spoke to a large audience gathered in Shearer Hall, on Thursday night,
November 1st, on the subject, “The New Renaissance in Europe.” Mr. Skeyhill is perhaps the most competent man in America
today to speak to a college audience on such a subject. During the Great War he was in the thick
of the fighting in three campaigns and would have been in the remainder of the scrap if he had not
been totally blinded by wounds received in one of the battles with the Germans. For over three years he remained
blind, but he continued his service to his country by speaking for its cause from the platform. His never-say-die spirit
was finally rewarded when his eyesight was completely restored through the surgical skill of a doctor at the Garfield Hospital,
Washington, D.C. Since then he has traveled 300,000 miles in his lecture tours and in his search for material for
his lectures. The speaker was introduced by Professor Shewmake, a member of the college committee on lectures, by whose arrangement
the speaker was obtained.

In beginning his lecture, Mr. Skeyhill traced the results of the great renaissance of history. The Hebrew gave to the
world the New Testament of our Bible and was the means by which Christianity was spread to all the great
countries of the time. The Greek renaissance gave us our greatest literature and laid the foundation of our arts and
sciences. The Italian renaissance was far-reaching in its effects. It gave us our greatest masters of painting, sculpture, and letters
and under its strong influence the highest peaks in our idea of liberty had its birth. Thus, throughout history, renaissances
have been the world’s progress. “I believe,” said Mr. Skeyhill, “that present civilization, in our lifetime, is going to bloom
and blossom forth into a new renaissance.” He went on to qualify this statement from the wealth of his experience.
In Russia, after the war, he asked his friends, who had been living under the Bolshevik government, whether they believed
in Bolshevism or not. They invariably replied “No.” And when he asked why they did not set up a government
in which they did believe, they replied that to do that would mean fighting, and they were tired of fighting.
They would rather live under a poor government in peace (Continued on page 7)

Martin was introduced by Dr. Johnston, President of the State, on Wearn Day. Twice in the second period, Wearn, with
a rush, smashed his way across the Wildcat line and turned what seemed a hopeless rout into a fiercely contested
battle when Ted Covington received a beautiful 15-yard pass from Hendrix and raced 25 yards for the Wildcat score. Outweighed
20 pounds to the man, Coach Younger’s charges made a wonderful showing against the Techmen. The first and last periods
belonged to the Wildcats, while the Techmen had the edge in the other two. In the second period, Johnston and
Lassiter smashed through the thin Red line and placed the ball in position for Holland to carry the ball across.
The Wildcat forwards charged through and broke up both attempts for the extra point. The Wildcats had a decided edge
in the punting, with Shepherd's kicks outdistancing Elms’ by 10 or 15 yards. The game, though slow at times, contained
many spectacular plays, the most brilliant being the Techmen’s stand on their two-yard line, and Covington’s sprint for the Davidson
score. Two attempts for field goals by Gig Shepherd in the early stages of the game failed, and the Wildcats
(Continued on page 6)

President Martin Speaks At Meeting In Charlotte

Fundamental Elements of Salvation Is Topic of Address

Speaking before the Charlotte Inter-denominational Laymen’s meeting Sunday afternoon on the subject: “The Elements of Salvation,” President William J. Martin
emphasized faith as the most vital and fundamental of the basic qualities. The meeting was held at the Second Presbyterian
Church, and despite the bad weather the auditorium was nearly filled. After a musical program by the United Lay orchestra
and the Queen City quartet, and scripture reading by Rev. C. M. Short, pastor of the Calvary Methodist Church, Dr.
W. H. Frazer, president of Queens College, introduced Dr. Martin as a former moderator of the Presbyterian Church of the
United States. In his introduction, Dr. Frazer spoke of Dr. Martin as a former moderator of the Presbyterian Church of
the United States.

The fundamental elements of Salvation, declared President Martin, are: the realization on the part of man of his individual sin;
real repentance; faith in Jesus Christ as Savior; regeneration; and service. Discussing the need for the realization of one’s sin,
the speaker said that the scriptures teach that each person has been a sinner since Adam's fall, and that it
is not difficult to make men realize they are sinners. (Continued on page 6)

BIRTHDAY GREETINGS, DAVIDSON!
