4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Do the Right Thing

The question of whether or not we are ready to kick hazing out of Davidson for good and all will
soon be brought sharply to the forefront and you will be asked to make your decision and cast your ballot.
We have given the board of control a trial and must now decide if we like to go back to
the old regime. In thinking about this matter, we must lay aside all personal feeling and be men enough to
do what’s best for Davidson. Many of us aren’t exactly satisfied with the present system of the board of control,
perhaps, but we must think seriously before we condemn our college to a second rank in this respect. We are
jealous of the reputation of Davidson in athletics, in debating, and scholastic standing. Are we then willing to have the
pest of hazing exist here, lowering our standards in the minds of all men? This article is not to persuade
you to vote one way or the other, but rather to urge you to consider the welfare of the college
when you make your decision.

—A DAVIDSONIAN.

R. F. DAVIDSON............ Editor-in-Chief
H. H. SMITH................. Forum Editor
D. S. McINTOSH........... Managing Editor
R. R. JONES.................. Associate Editor
W. T. ELLIOTT............... Associate Editor
R. MAUZE..................... Athletic Editor
H. M. MORRIS............... Assistant Editor
E. P. WILDMAN............. Alumni Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD........... Press Editor
P. C. PRICE.................... Exchange Editor

PRESS BUREAU

W. Z. BRADFORD........... Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY.......... Assistant Manager

Assistants

BARRINGTON, R. A.
McINTOSH, D. S.
BUSINESS DEPARTMENT

W. G. CUTER................. Business Manager
J. BOSWELL.................. Assistant Business Manager
CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT

SMITH, C. F.
APPLEBY, J. M.
McCORDY, B. V. D.
Advertising Solicitors

BROWN, W. P.
PRICE, R. L.
SMITH, R. H.
SHARPE, W. H.
BROWN, C. V.
MUZE, G. W.
WALTHALL, D. B.
ALLISON, O. J.
OFFETT, A. N.
WHARTON, D. B.

One of the professors while calling the roll last Friday on finding so many absent, remarked that he had been
told that everyone except the rough-neck element had gone to the laymen’s convention. When he got no response to H.
M. White’s name, he said: “I thought surely Mr. White would have been with us.”

All the baseball squad has reported; quite a formidable looking aggregation. With Captain Crawford and Coaches Currie and Hengrodt in
charge, a fine team for old Davidson should be whipped into shape.

TRACK

Not only has baseball begun, but track practice has also gotten underway. We have a good nucleus of letter men
to build a team around, even though two of our best men will probably have to be out because of
injuries and sickness, which is greatly to be regretted. Davidson has put out a good team in track in the
past and she should do so again. Coach Grey while in school here, was one of the best men in
the field events that we have ever had, establishing several college records, some of which have been broken since. This
spring Coach Grey can devote more of his time to the track team, and with the proper support on the
part of those going out in what he wants done, and the interest of the student body, he will be
able to build up a good team. With the continuation of the field day exercises which were started again last
year, the interest of all can be gotten in the track team, and the work of the candidates improved in
anticipation of this event. Everyone with track ability should report at once, if they have not done so already, and
all co-operate with Coach Grey in what he plans.

Red McPherson was recently operated on for appendicitis. He is still at the hospital in Sanford, where it is reported
he is getting along splendidly.

Iodoform seems to have become a popular perfume with the student body.

Joe Caddell read the lips of the players at the movies so well Saturday night that it is rumored he
is to be employed by the movie committee for this work permanently.

Notice Please:

Red Jones’ Valentino style hair.
Montague’s permanent wave.
Gig Shepherd’s walk.
George McCutcheon’s riding breeches.
Bob McLeod’s upper lip.
Angus McBryde's new shoes.
Bill Glenn’s new overcoat.
Bob Gordon's sublime smile (near the library).
Monk's vermillion fresh cap.

THE FIRE

With a destructive fire during both the last school year and this one, there very nearly comes a spirit of
discouragement and a lack of enterprise to those who are students at Davidson, as well as those who have the
college at heart. However, if there is one thing in particular that we do want to avoid and steer clear
of, it is this kind of spirit. We have many things to be glad of, if a fire in Watts
dormitory could not be avoided. The fire and following destruction was not anything like as bad as last year’s was,
and occurring during the day, a great amount of property and possibly some lives were saved, that would have been
seriously endangered had the fire broken out at night. Also with only fifty men thrown out of rooms, these have
speedily been given other quarters, and a great majority of them have been able to locate most of their possessions.
Under these circumstances, the Watts fire should not cause any decline in spirit.

Prof. in English II—Give me an example of a double negative, Mr. Currie.
Country Currie—I don’t know none.

The cheer leader and assistants were con- | end guests of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.

EXCHANGE COLUMN

The First Night
He—What would you do if I kissed you?
She—I’d slap your face!
He—But, I’d hold your hands.
She—Yes, that’s so.

The Second Night
He—What would you do if I kissed you?
She—Call papa.
He—Where is he?
She—Out of town.

The Third Night
He—What would you say if I kissed you?
She—Why, how could I say anything?

Who’s Ahead?

The Swede when asked by a college inquisitor if he was married. “Ya, I married.”
“Whom did you marry?”
“I married a woman.”
“Fool! Did you ever hear of anyone who did not marry a woman?”
“Ya, my sister. She marry a man.”

For hours they had been together on her front porch. The moon looked down on the young and handsome couple
who sat strangely far apart. He sighed. She sighed. Finally: “I wish I had money,” she said, “I’d travel.” Impulsively
she slipped her hand into his then rising swiftly she sped into the house. Aghast, he looked at his hand—in
his palm lay seven cents.

Kissing a girl after getting her permission is like getting a rain check after the eighth inning.

He—At last, I can look you in the face.
She—Oh, George! I’m so glad you've reformed.
He—Reformed! It’s the new styles.

When Charlie found the lipstick, how did he know it was yours?
Well, don’t you think he knows how it tastes by this time.

English As She Is Spoke—Mark Twain

Answers given by school children.

Biological—The gastric juice keeps the bones from creaking.
The salivary glands are used to salivate the body.
The stomach is a pear-shaped bone, situated in the middle of the body.
We have an upper and a lower skin. The lower skin moves all the time and the upper skin moves
when we do.

Physics—To find the weight of the earth take the length of a degree on ameridian and multiply by 6234 pounds.
The weight of the earth is found by comparing a mass of known lead with that of a mass of
unknown lead.

A body will go just as far in the first second as the body will go plus the force of
gravity, and that’s equal to twice what the body will go.

There has been no diminution in the amount or quality of the work done by us this spring. All are
conspicuous by their absence Saturday night. Miscellaneous — Homer’s writings are comfortably housed once more, and studying facilities are much
better than they were last spring, or in fact have been for some years except during the past fall term.
Further, all the teaching equipment is untouched and in as good condition as ever, and with the replacing of the
books that were lost, everyone should be able to go on with and improve the term’s work. Thus we can
meet squarely the challenge in Doctor Martin’s talk Monday, and show him that he is not mistaken in his view
of the calibre of the student body.

PRAISE DUE STUDENTS

The Davidson students have recently been called upon to do quite a lot of rescue work of property and to
strive to extinguish the fires that we have had bring disaster to us here. In all cases their actions have
brought credit to them. Particularly in the Chambers fire last year, were the belongings of boys saved by others when
the owners themselves were away at the time. Room after room was cleared out, sometimes at great risk of injury
to those who were doing the heroic deeds. Then Sunday in the Watts fire, a great deal more unselfish service
was performed. This fire burned much more quickly than any of the others, and the third floor was in flame
before the alarm reached the students at church. By the time they arrived almost everything on the first two floors
was saved. All taken from the third and second floors was taken under dangerous conditions, and those who helped are
due much credit. Those men, too, led the roofs of Georgia and Rumple, and in an intense heat and smoke,
did good work.

Those enjoying the hospitality of the infirmary during the past week were: Harry S. Beall, R. H. Smith, R. M.
McGirt, N. R. Cousar, J. P. Stevenson, and Kimbrough. Of this number six are afflicted with measles.

Three guesses as to why the stakes were placed in front of the gym. Someone was seen walking across the
campus the other day accompanied by a man, and it wasn’t Bob! Watts ’smatter?

In the article headed “Prominent students take definite steps” of last week’s issue, the reporter failed to mention P. C.
Henderson. He feels terribly insulted. Skit McConnell thinks he should have received honorable mention also.

Emilio Bosch journeyed over to Flora Macdonald this past week. If this news reaches Cardenas, Cuba, it might cause trouble
with his fair Senorita.

College, Homer's essays, Virgil, the Aeneid, and Paradise Lost. Some people say that these poems were not written by Homer,
but by another man of the same name. Chaucer was succeeded by H. Wadsworth Longfellow, an American writer. His writings
were chiefly prose and one hundred years elapsed. Shakespeare translated the Scriptures and it was called St. James because he
did it—Mark Twain.

Jim Mithoss had forgotten the exact location of the sawdust pile in his hometown, Martinston, Ala., when his train passed
through at full speed just before the holidays. Unfortunately, Jim jumped off on the wrong side and landed in the
middle of a pile of cordwood. As a result, he is still nursing a few minor scratches and bruises.

ADVERTISERS IN ANNUAL TO BE LISTED WEEKLY

“Patronize our advertisers! Help those who help us!” Below is a list of the names of concerns who have advertised
in the 1923 Chips and Cranks: Coca-Cola Co.; Cotrell Leonard, who are furnishing caps and gowns to the senior class;
Eastman Kodak Co.; Life Insurance Co.; General Electric Co.; David Malloy Co., who are furnishing covers for the Annual; Presbyterian
Standard Printing Co., Charlotte, N. C.; Central Hotel, Charlotte, N. C., and the Central Cafeteria in Charlotte. A drive for
local advertising will start next week taking in firms in Charlotte, Statesville, Mooresville, Winston-Salem, and Greensboro. From now on a
list of college advertisers will be published weekly in The Davidsonian.

The moon cast its tender gleam. W. F. Galloway, poet laureate of Davidson and one of her star sprinters, made
a record for himself at the scene of the recent conflagration. Arriving at the scene of the fire he busied
himself craning his neck at the mounting flames until he was startled from his reverie by a cry, “Georgia’s on
fire.” Seeing the reflection of the burning Watts in the windows of his beloved Georgia, he uttered a shriek of
anguish and raced toward the supposedly burning dormitory with long kangaroo-like leaps. He had to go in every room of
the building before he could be convinced that it really was not in the death throes of a mighty conflagration.
He was so weak with excitement that he deigned to accept the assistance of D. B. Walthall in getting out
to a seat beneath the trees.

Alas and alack, the soothing strains of Speedy Carr's Victrola will no longer be wafted down the corridors of the
dormitories while his erstwhile friends hold up their hands in supplication, crying out, “How long, how long?” No more will
the tunes of ancient vintage assail the tired ears of his mates, and no longer will the melodious strains enhance
the quiet atmosphere of the campus—in short, this instrument of torture lies in cold gray ashes and is no more.
His friends have already started a subscription campaign to purchase him a French harp with a muffler on it to
recompense him for his loss.

John D. Laws, the buxom lad from Mississippi, took full control of the wrecking crew after the flames had reduced
Watts to a shell, and did valiant service in battering down the remaining walls with bricks adroitly thrown. Bob McLeod
and Red McCombs were his chief deputies.

Great fear smote the hearts of those who partake of the Trough’s output when a sudden cry arose that this
boarding house had caught fire, for it is one thing to lose one’s personal belongings, but still a greater one
to be deprived of satisfaction for the inner man.

One of the gallant fire laddies was seen to emerge from the smoke-filled depths of the upper corridor of Watts,
pull off a handkerchief from his mouth and nose, calmly light a cigarette, take two or three long draughts and
plunge once more into the smoke. Probably he was led by a pillar of fire.

It has not been discovered who threw an Underwood typewriter from the third story and walked down the steps carrying
two sofa pillows in his arms. Neither has Frank Wildman found any ashes that bear the least resemblance of being
those of a box of cigars that he had in his room.

Izzy Thames was dumbfounded when he found out that it was really Watts dormitory and not Rumple that had burnt.
He was aware that there was a fire of some description going on but he was so engrossed in conversation
with two personages of the weaker sex that he did not discover which building had burnt until it was all
over.

As usual when there is a real blaze at Davidson the cries of “Fire, Fire,” did not arouse any immediate
interest among the collegians near the scene of the incineration. There is no means of discriminating between a real fire
and the advent of a person of the feminine sex upon the campus.

Blanco White has announced to the world that he considers himself a lucky lad as the result of getting his
straw “katy” from his room before it became a roosting place for the cruel red flames. He wore it proudly
during the progress of the blaze.

Tubby Woolfolk dropped a blanket from the top of Georgia, and leaning over the edge of the roof requested someone
to hand it to him.

Henry Martyn White, who uttered fatalities in the Chambers blaze, was in the midst of things again. Nothing more serious
than singed whiskers this time.
