THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

RELIGIOUS NEWS

VOLUNTEERS REPORT ON STATE CONFERENCE

The Volunteers, with M. R. Calhoun as leader, conducted the Union meeting of the Volunteer and Ministerial bands last Sunday.
The reports from the State Volunteer Conference at Raleigh were delivered. W. T. Baker discussed the opening address delivered by
Rev. Wade C. Smith, “Living Unto Him.” We should sacrifice everything, he said, to do what God most wants us
to do, and that is to tell people of Christ. Half of the people of the world do not know
the message of John 3:16. We will not be successful in winning souls if we go about it in a
half-hearted way. Every investment that we make in this work brings in big returns in joy, now as well as
hereafter. We must be willing to wear scars and be proud of them if we are to be good soldiers.

D. B. Wharton gave the gist of the address of Mrs. J.T. Anderson, a Meredith graduate who is now a
missionary to China. Mrs. Anderson was a member of the Wake County Volunteer Union and later of the North Carolina
State Union at the time of its organization. She attended the World Christian Student Conference in China last year. In
short, Mrs. Anderson said, “Christ has a message which will affect all of our relations. His Gospel is not one-sided.”

D. B. Walthall told what the Conference meant to a non-volunteer. The atmosphere of the meetings, he said, “was decidedly
spiritual.” He emphasized the need of backing for the missionaries. There is too much of the idea that the Volunteers
need not be thought of any more after they are sent out.

Perrin Hudgins gave the theme of the conference, “Let Christ live through you.” If we are out to receive His
power, we must be tuned properly, and if we do not receive the power, that is no proof that it
is not there. Bible reading, prayer, and faith are the things that enable us to receive the power.

G. E. Weeks commented on the good spirit shown by N. C. State College and the interest which the students
there took in the conference.

INTERESTING SERMON DELIVERED BY PASTOR

Drawing his thoughts from Isaiah 40:31 last Sunday morning, Doctor Richards preached an interesting sermon on the necessity of waiting
on the Lord and in this way having our strength renewed. There are two ways to “wait on the Lord”:
one like Martin Luther, who said that he had so much to do that he could not afford to spend
less than five hours a day in prayer; or like John Wesley, who was constantly praying—thanking God for His mercies
and praying for strength and wisdom, etc. “The ideal method of ‘waiting on the Lord’ is a combination of both.”
We obtain spiritual strength by “waiting on the Lord” and we “mount up with wings as eagles.” This results in
living on the mountain-tops, so to speak, spiritually, when our spirits seem to be in the very presence of God.
Then “they shall run and not be weary”—this is when misfortunes, trials, and temptations come thick and much spiritual strength
is required. If one has been in the habit of waiting on the Lord, he shall “run and not be
weary.” The verse used as a text is built up anti-climactically. The hardest thing to do is to “walk and
not faint.” It is easier to rise to spiritual heights in times of crises, but the hard things to stand
are the little everyday trials. Therefore, the secret of success is to “wait on the Lord” and “let your strength
be renewed.”

DOCTOR FRASER NEXT “Y” VESPER SPEAKER

The Juniors, among their other plans for Junior week, will have a special vesper service Easter Sunday. The speaker, well-known
to most of the students, will be Dr. William H. Frazer, president of Queens College, while a quartet from either
Queens or Davidson will render special music. Like last year’s Junior Speaking Y. M. C. A. service, this one will
be held out of doors. A special orchestra will render different selections.

It was with difficulty that Doctor Frazer was secured as the speaker for this service due to his many previous
engagements. He is well-known to most Davidson students and is sure to impart a helpful message.

VOLUNTEER SECRETARY ADDRESSES STUDENTS

Lyman Hoover, Traveling Secretary for the Student Volunteer movement, visited Davidson Sunday and Monday, March 18 and 19, and addressed
the student body in chapel Monday. He first gave a brief summary of the needs of foreign countries in their
heathendom for the Christian religion. He spoke of the work of all churches in sending missionaries to these backward races
and of the Volunteer Movement’s connection with all the missionary endeavors of all bodies of Protestant Christians. The Movement is
mainly to band together all students who are planning for foreign service of a religious nature. It seeks to give
to these students a wider view of the whole field and to reach out and get interested in the work
those who feel called to such work, and also those who wish to help in the work as they remain
at home.

The gripping part of the speaker's talk came when, in a simple, sincere manner, he announced the purpose of himself
and five others to go to a hitherto untouched region in far-away central China if God permits. They will include
an expert, a physician and nurse, an educator, an agriculturist, and two evangelists. They will not seek to force the
western civilization upon the natives but will develop leadership among them so the work will be able to continue when
they push on further to other untouched parts. They expect first to go to Cairo, Egypt, to study the language
and to get a foundation upon which to build a successful mission. It will be some years yet before the
mission will be started as most of the group have further university work to complete. Mr. Hoover graduated at Butler
College, Indiana, and has been one year at Yale Divinity School. Next fall he will return to Yale for the
remaining two years of his course in the Divinity School.

MOORESVILLE CHILDREN GIVEN PSYCHOLOGY TEST

The men in the Psychology 2 class, accompanied by Doctor Hood, journeyed to Mooresville last Wednesday morning in order to
give and make some tests upon the school children of that town. Those making the trip were, or were supposed
to have been, excused from their mid-morning classes in order to be able to return in time for dinner. Automobiles
were the means of transportation, arranged for by Mr. “Chink” Woods, a prominent member of the class. According to reports,
the trip was entirely successful and an enjoyable and profitable time was had by all.

Dr. Sentelle (in Bible)—What is the canon?
Fresh—Canon? Er, a cannon is a hole with fuse poured all around it.

Horse Shoe Tournament To Be Big Attraction

At last all plans have been completed and no event of importance will arise to eclipse the long-looked-for horse shoe
tournament between By Jove Rogers and P. C. Henderson. The time for the tournament has been set for the Friday
afternoon of Junior Speaking week and will be a fitting climax to one of the biggest days of the occasion.
The games will be divided into three sets, each set being a best three out of five games. P. C.
has at last perfected his style. He guarantees a ringer at least every other pitch. Many are placing their money
and tobacco tags on him. By Jove swears he can dance a jig and beat P. C. at the same
time.time. He was beaten the other day in a practice match, but in an interview, gave out the information that
he has changed his style and promises to give P. C. a hot time for the coveted title. The Committee
desires that the Dean or other college executive in turn file all the applications received by him at the same
time, together with a statement naming the men applying who in his opinion or the opinion of the Faculty are
the best qualified to receive the reward.

A larger attendance than usual was present at the “Y” Vesper Service Sunday evening to hear Mr. David Ovens, an
outstanding business and layman of Charlotte, who based his talk for the evening on the statement, "Failure is a Crime
Where There is Capacity for Success." Wallace Moore, of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, presided, and read the Scripture
text for the evening, which was found in 1 Cor. 13. He also introduced the speaker as a business man,
a successful man, but above all, an outstanding Christian. Bascomb Sorrells had charge of the singing for the evening, and
Purdy and White were at their accustomed places.

Mr. Ovens said in part, “Failure is a crime where there is the capacity for success. Today there are so
many chances for being worthwhile, that the one who neglects his chance is committing a crime. God has given each
his particular talents and there is a place in the world for everyone's talent. It is criminal to neglect your
abilities, to neglect your chance for making a success and making your life worthwhile.

“The boy in college who doesn’t work, doesn’t study, and who doesn’t apply his talents, is not trying to make
a success in college. What will he do in life? Knowledge is not power, but applied knowledge is power. The
knowledge you gain from books will be of no use to you until you put it into practice. Knowledge must
be made of use to the world to be powerful.

“To make a success you must put all that you have into your work, whatever it may be.” Here the
speaker illustrated his statement by the story of the world’s most famous violinist, who, when she played, put herself, her
very soul, into the playing. “God demands that you put the best that you have into use. He calls for
your enthusiasm. A really successful, growing concern is a big power for good. Perhaps such a concern will soon be
put into your hands. With your advantages, you ought to make them better and more successful than ever before.

“To make a true success there is a program you must follow. Men have written books on how to succeed
in business, but the only true way to success is found in the Bible. There is no other program for
success than that in God’s Word. Self-sacrifice—putting all that you have in service of God and man, is the greatest
service a man can render. God calls for your best. Give Him the best that you have.”

CHARLES A. COFFIN FELLOWSHIPS OFFERED

The Charles A. Coffin Foundation, established by the General Electric Company, which will award fellowships to college graduates for research
work, has sent application blanks to all colleges of the country, which must be filled out and returned by April
15th. Accompanying the blanks is the first announcement of the details of the awards as follows:

“The terms of the Charles A. Coffin Foundation, established by the General Electric Company, make provision for the award of
five thousand dollars annually for fellowships to graduates of the universities, colleges, and technical schools of the United States who
have shown, by the character of their work, that they could, with advantage, undertake or continue research work in educational
institutions either in this country or abroad.

“The fields in which these fellowships are to be awarded are Electricity, Physics, and Physical Chemistry.

“The Committee desires to make the awards to men who, without financial assistance, would be unable to devote themselves to
research work. The fellowships will carry a minimum allowance of five hundred dollars. This allowance may be increased to meet
the special needs of applicants to whom the Committee desires to award the Fellowships.

“Candidates for the Charles A. Coffin Fellowships should file applications on forms provided for that purpose, and obtainable from the
Chairman. Applications will be welcomed from seniors as well as graduates of universities, colleges, and technical schools, but any award
to a senior will be conditioned upon his graduation.

“The Committee requests that all applications first be sent to the Dean of the educational institution at which the applicant
is, or has been, in attendance within the year. The Dean or other college executive in turn should file all
the applications received by him at the same time, together with a statement naming the men applying who in his
opinion or the opinion of the Faculty are the best qualified to receive the reward.

“Applications must be filed with the Committee by April 15, 1923, and should be addressed to Dr. Frank B. Jewett,
Chairman, Charles A. Coffin Fellowship and Research Committee, care of American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New
York, N. Y. The period allowed for filing applications has been necessarily brief as the Foundation has been only recently
established. Modification in procedure may be made for future awards.

“Those awarded fellowships will be notified of the fact by June 1st.” The Fellowship and Research Committee, besides Dr. Jewett,
consists of Dr. John C. Merriam, representing National Academy of Sciences, and Dr. Charles F. Scott, representing Society for Promotion
of Engineering Education.

LOST

Watts fire, one brown cowhide handbag containing books, letters (addressed to C. F. Doughton), sweater, etc. Reward for return. C.
F. Doughton, 204 East.

SMYTH LECTURES

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presbyterian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p.m., beginning
Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednesday, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are invited to attend these lectures,
feeling sure that they will be highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible through the generosity of the late
Dr. Thomas Smyth of Charleston, S. C.

Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
“Sermonic Sources”

Thursday, April 12th
“Passion in Preaching”

Friday, April 13th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.
“Regulative Ideas in Preaching”

Monday, April 16th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.
“The Man and His Message”

Tuesday, April 17th
Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jackson, Miss.
“On Which the Minister Lives”

Wednesday, April 18th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Mobile, Ala.
