THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

RELIGIOUS NEWS

“Y” SERVICE LED BY CHARLOTTE MINISTER

Despite the inclemency of the weather, a large crowd was present to hear Mr. W. B. McIlwaine, pastor of the
Westminster Church, of Charlotte, speak at the Y. M. C. A. service on last Sunday evening. Following the opening songs,
Bill Baker and Harry Russell led the house in prayer, asking for God's blessing on the meeting and on the
work during the new year. Before introducing Mr. McIlwaine, Pat Crawford, speaking on behalf of the cabinet, assured his hearers
that the “Y” would strive harder than ever for the spiritual uplift on the Hill during the year 1923, and
asked for the full and hearty co-operation of the entire student body. Pat also read the Scripture lesson for the
evening, John 18:28-40.

In his opening remarks, Mr. McIlwaine said that despite the fact that this was the first occasion on which he
had addressed college boys, yet he was a boy in heart and was growing younger each day. Choosing as his
subject, “Jesus Before Pilate,” the speaker contrasted the Prince of Truth with the king whose power was based on falsity.
“Pontius Pilate, a seemingly powerful, dignified, cruel ruler of a great empire, sat on the throne of his earthly power.
Before him stood Jesus, the Prince of Truth, who was the representative of eternal power. When Jesus said, ‘I am
the truth, the way, and the light,’ Pilate, scorning, asked, ‘What is Truth?’

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

“Pilate’s power was based on false principles. He did not even know what truth was. His power was temporal and
could not last. He was afraid of the Truth and wanted to let Christ go. Christ, apparently the accused, was
the judge, while Pilate, the monarch, surrounded by hosts of subjects and sitting on the throne, was accused before the
bar of Eternal Judgment. Pilate’s power was won by personal aggrandizement, which standing before Truth, must be condemned. Pilate’s condemnation
came because he was false. Pilate, the captain of his people, was bound in chains of falsity; he had not
even the power to let Christ, the Truth, be set free.

“How many times we are false in college! How many times we mar our soul’s welfare rather than mar a
day’s work! How many times we cut bases on the ball field, and perhaps help to win the game, but
do harm to our soul. You may be safe for a while, but you have brought detriment to your own
character. Pilate was safe at first, but when he came face to face with Truth, he was condemned. Pilate never
came back. He was up for trial before Caesar, but his trial was never held. But he was an outcast,
and probably a suicide. His name is scorned today and always will be, because he built on falsehood. Christ, whose
power is founded on truth, lives today and His power will never be lost. Christ, the Truth, looks down on
us today. When we, like Pilate, make a short cut for personal gain, we are bringing condemnation on ourselves. Build
square; build for Truth,” were Mr. McIlwaine’s closing words.

PASTOR URGES STUDENTS TO START YEAR RIGHT

At the usual morning service on last Sunday, Doctor Richards used as his text the last part of Joshua 3:4,
“For ye have not passed this way heretofore.” He took this text for his sermon because it was the first
Sunday in the new year and at the beginning of a year one should look forward and plan to make
the best of the days to come. He compared the new year to a journey.

BLACK & KIMZY, Commissary.
MILLS SHOE CO.
For SHOE REPAIRING
See Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill
Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the
10 North Barracks
Statesville, N. C.

FIVE-DOORS-ABOVE
HGOODRUMECO
THE BANKS
“Prices you can afford to pay”

Gentlemen, looked out on the street yesterday and the mud was something awful. Couldn't help but think that the man
without a good pair of rubbers was out of luck. So I'm going to remind you of the fact that
we have a Jim-Dandy line - we've almost any kind, but my advice is that you get a real heavy
pair because they last so much better. Have a good pair of shoes inside of them. A good pair of
rubbers ought to last.

Couldn't think of anything more appropriate than a pair of Herman's Munson lasts - for real service they can't be
beat. And when the day's walk is over you'll want a good pair of slippers. A suggestion: Daniel Green's "COMFY"
line, we have them. Remember: We are at your service.

Mr. Fiddler

Furnishings and said that at the beginning of a journey one should decide which way he wishes to travel. Where
does the road lead to? Is it the right road? The goal is Heaven. The way to reach the goal
is through the Lord Jesus Christ, for He said, “I am the way, the truth and the life, no man
cometh unto the Father but by me.” Christians should get a new grip on the Savior. Others should seek Him
whom to know aright is life eternal. The way is all untried; it is best to be prepared. The way
will not be all easy traveling and to be able to travel it to its end faith in God is
necessary above all other things. There will be plenty of companions along the way: some ahead, some contemporaries and others
behind. If the burdens are hard to carry ask assistance of the stronger ones, they have had more experience and
will know how to help us. On the other hand, forget not the weaker brother; lend him a helping hand,
emulate the Savior’s example. A man grows into heavenliness by putting heavenliness into the life that is around him. The
kingdom of heaven is within, and as surely as the kingdom pervades all earthly relations, so surely shall earthly relations
approach to the kingdom of heaven, was the closing thought of Doctor Richards.

GAMBLE FILLS VACANT PULPIT IN CHARLOTTE

On Sunday evening, Arnett Gamble spoke at the Westminster Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. The visit to Charlotte was made to
supply for Rev. W. B. McIlwaine, who spoke before the Davidson Y. M. C. A. Gamble told the story of
God's call to Samuel, and urged the young people of the church to listen for God's call and to answer
the call of Christian service.

PRESBYTERIAN STANDARD TO HAVE NEW SECTION — GAMBLE EDITOR

Beginning with this week’s issue the Presbyterian Standard, of Charlotte, is to have a Young People’s Department and a Davidson
student, Arnett Gamble, is to be the editor. Plans for the new department have been under way for some time.
Those inaugurating the department have in mind the promotion of the Young People’s work in the North Carolina Synod.

Gamble’s preparation for this new place he has been asked to fill has been two-fold. His newspaper experience has been
gained through his former work as managing editor of the Davidsonian and as editor and business manager of the Saffire
Cracker of Camp Sapphire. In young people’s work he has been president of the Georgia Christian Endeavor Union, and in
charge of the young people’s work of the First Presbyterian Church, of Wilmington. He is the leader of the Christian
Endeavor Training class at Davidson.

UNION BAND ELECTS OFFICERS FOR YEAR

The first meeting of the Union Band in 1923 was led by H. M. White last Sunday morning in Shearer
Hall. Harry Price talked on the possibilities of service for ministerial students during the new year. He said that they
should live exemplary lives in every respect; truthful, straightforward, pure and unselfish. He cited a few criticisms that must be
lived down: that of talking a lot and doing nothing; that of living for self only, with the entire exclusion
of all others, and that of being hypocritical in our daily acts. There is but one way to correct these
faults and that is in the reach of everyone; it is by prayer for God’s aid and guidance, first, and
then steadfast earnest endeavors to live the principles of the Master. The election of officers was held, and it placed
the following men in positions: M. P. Calhoun, president; McBryde, vice-president; H. Price, treasurer, and A. P. Hudgins, secretary.

JUNIOR CLASS ENDEAVORING
(Continued from Page 1)

The company whose design is accepted will be given the contract for the present Junior and Sophomore classes and it
is altogether probable thatthe same concern will handle the matter permanently. Among those who are working upon plans for the
ring are: Herff-Jones & Co., of Indianapolis; Chas. Peterson & Co., of Detroit, and the Skillcrafters, of Philadelphia; Burr-Patterson &
Co., of Detroit, and H. Elliott & Co., of Philadelphia.

RELAT LITERARY NEWS

DELTA PI KAPPA PLANS TO HEAR JOURNALISTS

Last week’s meeting of the Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic Fraternity was held in the Kappa Alpha hall. Besides the active
members present, Professor E. J. Erwin was kind enough to attend the meeting. R. R. Jones read, as his contribution
to the work of the fraternity, a paper on the news story. Delta Pi Kappa has made definite arrangements for
securing men prominent in their profession to speak on journalism. In the week after examinations close, Mr. R. R. Clark,
editor of the Statesville Landmark, will make an address to all interested in any department of newspaper work. Mr. Clark’s
20 years of experience have enabled him to make and keep the Landmark the best weekly or semi-weekly in the
State. The extensive quotations of its editorials in all of the leading papers of North Carolina testify to its value.
For these reasons, Mr. Clark is eminently suited to speak to those who wish to make journalism their profession. In
the past, very few Davidson men have taken up newspaper writing as their life work. Delta Pi Kappa is trying
to remedy this situation by having men like Mr. Clark tell them of some of the phases of the profession.
It is hoped that especially those who write for the Davidsonian will be present at these lectures, as they will
be helped to become better reporters.

FRAT SCHOLARSHIP CUP WON BY BETA THETA PI

The Beta Theta Pi Fraternity has been permanently awarded the Belk Fraternity Scholarship Cup. The cup was given by Mr.
Belk in 1911, and it was thought that he intended for it to go to the fraternity winning it 10
consecutive years. It was later discovered that this was not the case, but that Mr. Belk intended for the cup
to be permanently awarded to the fraternity which won it the greatest number of times during a period of 10
years. The Betas won the cup with a record of four years, the Kappa Alpha came second with three, and
the Kappa Sigmas third with two years.

SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS INITIAL 1923 MEETING

The members of the local chapter of the Sigma Upsilon Fraternity enjoyed their first meeting of the year in the
Pi K A Hall on last Monday evening. Doctor Shewmake gave an exceedingly interesting review of “Spreading the News,” a
one-act play by Lady Gregory. This was followed by an excellent review of “Blood and Sand” by Professor L. M.
Currie. The feature of the literary program of the evening was the rendition, by R. F. Davidson, of an original
one-act play, entitled “Stuck.” In this work of ineffable literary cunning, the scene of which was laid in the swamps
of Louisiana, the author portrayed the character and habits of the negroes of that clime with remarkable variety and euphony,
together with no little humor and pathos.

CARR WINS OUT IN DECLAIMERS’ CONTEST

On December 4th, the contestants from the Metrophilian Literary Society, for the Freshman-Sophomore declaimers medal, met in Doctor McConnell’s classroom
to decide who would be the one to receive the honors from that society for this year. The speakers were
W. A. Patterson, whose subject was “Universal Education,” A. C. Ray, who spoke on “The Last Confederate,” and J. M.
Carr, who had chosen “The Fiddle Told,” as his subject. Patterson delivered his declamation in a manner pleasing to all
present. Ray also gave a fine declamation, painting a picture of the Civil War to his hearers. Carr’s speech pictured
a prisoner who had been set free through the words of his old fiddle, as the Governor played it. The
judges were Doctor Grey, Doctor Harding, and Professor Wagner. After a lengthy discussion, they decided that Carr was the lucky
contestant. His good delivery, together with his well-chosen subject, won for him the much-coveted medal.

JUNIORS RELIEVED OF CUSTOMARY ORATIONS

The Juniors will not be required to make Junior speeches this year. The faculty have decided to do away with
this old custom entirely. Each literary society will select two men to compete for the Junior Orators Medal, and these
men will speak, more than likely, during the social event of the season, the old Junior Speaking. It is left
entirely to the man himself, unless he wishes to, he need not speak; no essays or any other literary requirements
will be expected.

DATE FOR JUNIOR WEEK TO BE DECIDED SOON

At a meeting of the Junior class, the following men were appointed on a committee for Junior speaking: R. R.
Jones, W. Z. Bradford, W. T. Jones, and L. D. Elkins. This committee has general supervision over the preparations for
Junior Speaking as well and will confer with the faculty about fixing the date for the same. The date for
Junior Speaking has not yet been definitely settled. However, the tentative date is March 30th to April 2nd. The committee
is trying to get the permission of the faculty to have the speaking on the weekend preceding the one mentioned.
If March 30th, 31st, and April 1st and 2nd is granted as Easter holidays, there will not be many men
on the hill and successful speaking depends in some measure on the number of students present. With the cooperation of
every man in the class, there is no reason why the present Junior class should not put over the biggest
and most successful Junior Speaking in the history of Davidson College. Every Junior, as well as other students, should invite
a girl up for the occasion.

LIBRARY NEWS

Several books of great value have been added to the library during the Christmas holidays. Among the best of these
is a book by Chester S. Lord, entitled “The Young Man and Journalism.” This is one of a series of
books prepared by men of much training and ability, for the purpose of giving young men wise counsel on the
leading vocations. The author explains that one of a man’s most important decisions is that one which decides the course
of his life work. Mr. Lord heartily endorses a vocation as a life work since “it furnishes steady employment at
a definite task as against changeable effort and an unstable task.” Doctor Koch, of the University of North Carolina, has
written a book on “Carolina Folk Plays,” which should be of benefit to students who are interested in this kind
of work. Two good books have been added to the public speaking department. One of these is “Stammering and Cognate
Defects of Speech,” by C. C. Bluemel, who says that speech defects are not necessary and goes at length into
the psychology of stammering. The other is “Speech Defects in School Children,” by Dr. Walter B. Smith. In this book,
he explains the importance of good habits in speech and suggests some helpful methods for correcting defects. The new novels
received are “Vandemark’s Folly,” by Herbert Quick, “Lucretia Lombard,” by Kathleen Norris, and “The Vehement Flame,” by Margaret Deland.

MRS. OWEN DELIVERS SPLENDID LECTURE

On December 12th Mrs. Ruth Bryan Owen, daughter of the Hon. Wm. Jennings Bryan, gave in Shearer Hall, her famous
address, entitled “Modern Arabian Knights.” With a brief word-painting, she carried her audience across the seas, and held it fascinated
as she told of the “cradle of civilization” — Mesopotamia, Assyria, and Palestine — during the period of the World
War. Mrs. Owen first told of her impressions of Cairo, and of the interesting social customs in vogue there. She
then sketched most vividly the advance of the allied army as it went towards Jerusalem — following the trail of
the Exodus. The procuring of food and water for the armies, the means of communication adopted, the advance and final
capture of Jerusalem, along with the surrender of the Turks, were subjects presented most delightfully by Mrs. Owen. She added
also many human touches which greatly increased the interest of the hearers. Her final appeal was that the great power
of public opinion be turned toward the definite establishment of a world peace. Mrs. Owen is a speaker of exceptional
ability, charming manner, and rare good humor, who attracts large and appreciative audiences wherever she goes. Professor Erwin presided over
the meeting in his usual effective manner.

Mug—What’s showing at the movies tonight?
Wump—I’m not sure, but I hear she only wears some beads.—Lord Jeff.
