THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 26, 1923

LITERARY NEWS EDITOR HESTON ANNOUNCES ‘24 ANNUAL STAFF

Editor-in-chief W. M. Heston has announced his staff for the ’24 Quips and Cranks. The men who will work with
him to attempt to put out the best annual ever seen here, and who will have charge of the various
departments are as follows: Literary Editor, D. J. Chipman; Art Editor, Watt McCain; Calendar Editor, H. M. White; Gossiper Editor,
R. L. Price; Athletic Editor, W. F. Gallaway; Asst. Literary Editor, J. A. Lake. Heston announces that the new staff
will, if possible, get all the material together by the first of February so that there will be no delay
in getting the copies to the students and other subscribers as soon as possible. They are planning many new features
which will go far toward putting next year’s Annual in a class by itself. R. H. Smith will have charge
of the business end of the '24 edition and promises all that is in his power toward putting it on
a self-supporting basis. The men who will assist him in this department have not been definitely decided upon as yet.

REPORTERS INITIATE NEW MEN BEFORE MOVIE CROWD

Everything ranging from black face comedy to “anesthetic” dancing was used to entertain the audience at the movie last Saturday
night. The cause of this entertainment was the initiation of twelve new members into the Reporter’s Club. As soon as
the lights were turned on, after the fifth reel of the picture, “Cat Fish” Smith, disguised as a beautiful young
lady and having a “flapperish” appearance, tortured the audience with a vocal selection, “Sweet Alice, Blue Gown.” This barbarity was
followed by an interpretative dance by “Will Eat” Milton, who played the part of interpreter exceedingly well. J. M. Seker,
“Gosh Ding” Rogers, A. M. Hard, and J. L. Green were the next to enter. Their costumes consisted of bathing
suits, track suits, and union suits. They further tortured the audience with the rendition of Elias Faison’s “Spanish Doug.” After
this motley array, a jabbering family entered: Jack Austin, as the Jew father; Paul Story as the mother; A. Y.
Bowie, as the overworked nurse; and C. F. Monk as the howling baby. A discussion between the father and mother
of the malady affecting their “darling child” almost ended in tragedy. All the initiates later joined in giving a yell
for the Reporter’s Club, and for the college. Two initiates were absent, M. S. Beall, and Alex McMillian. These make
the total number, twelve, of which two are Juniors, six Sophomores, and four Freshmen. After the show, the initiation ceremonies
were continued in the gym. D. B. Walthall, the newly elected president, made a short but interesting talk. He brought
out the fact that a course in Journalism will be given next year. McIlwaine, the assistant managing editor of the
Davidsonian, gave a brief history of the Davidsonian. Patton, the secretary of the club, stressed the importance of attending all
its meetings. After this, a splendid feed was enjoyed by all.

POLITY CLUB ELECTS NEW OFFICERS AND MEMBERS

The meeting of the Polity Club held in Shearer Hall on April 9th was turned over entirely to the business
of electing new officers and the selection of several men to membership in the club. The officers elected were: J.
H. Davis, President; J. I. Smith, Vice-President; and H. M. White, Secretary and Treasurer. The five men elected to membership
are: A. P. Hudgins, J. L. McLain, D. B. Walthall, M. J. Murray, and R. H. Smith. These men will
be taken in at the next meeting.

PHI BETA KAPPA HEAD VISITS LOCAL CHAPTER

President Vorhees, chief executive of the United Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity, spent last Tuesday on the
Davidson campus in the interest of the society which he represents. He came to Davidson from Columbia, S. C., and
after spending the day on the hill, left to complete a general tour of inspection of Southern Chapters. Doctor Vorhees
was a visitor at Davidson several weeks ago when the local chapter was installed.

“QUIPS AND CRANKS” WILL MAKE DEBUT

The copy for the 1923 Quips and Cranks has gone to the publishers, and the annual will soon appear with
many new features. This issue will be the first one put out since the cover has been standardized. From now
on, covers like those used last year will be used. Although the outer part has been standardized, the material inside
will include several innovations. The invocation, instead of being done in the usual black and white, will be colored quite
a bit. There will be twice as many sponsors, and the pictures will somewhat resemble a rotogravure section. The individual
senior pictures, instead of running up and down the page, will be placed at the top and bottom of the
page. The athletic headings will show quite an improvement over those of last year. Instead of showing one player at
a time, a group will be sketched in the midst of a formation. The fraternity and class cuts will be
original work by some of the best artists at Davidson. In short, this year’s annual will be the result of
hard work and splendid talent.

DECLAMATION CONTEST IN EUMENEAN SOCIETY

In the Eumenean Society meeting of April 19, the annual Fresh-Soph declamation contest was held. Two Sophomores, A. M. Martin
and G. D. Rogers, contested against A. Y. Bowie and W. F. Martin of the Freshmen. Professor Foreman acted as
judge and in the absence of other faculty members, two Seniors from the society, Frank Johnson and P. H. Biddle,
were appointed as judges. A. M. Martin took first place, speaking on America’s Mission by W. J. Bryan. Second place
was given to W. F. Martin who gave Americanism by Adams, with Bowie winning third. The inauguration of the new
officers then took place. The retiring president, Fraser, made a few remarks thanking the society for its cooperation during his
term of office, and immediately proceeded with the regular inauguration ceremony. After the new president, L. D. Elkins, was installed,
he called the new officers; J. R. Earnest, Vice-President, and J. A. Bouvier, Secretary, to take their places. The president
asked to be excused from the regular inauguration address for the present. On request from Fraser, he promised to deliver
it at the next meeting. Under the head of other business, the treasurer, Hiram Sharpe, read a list of fines
with the announcement that all those fined must either explain the absence to him or pay it. After this, the
society adjourned.

PANDEINICS WIN FRESH-SOPH DEBATE

The Pandeinic society team won a three to nothing decision over the Metrophilians team in the first round of the
Fresh-Soph inter-society debates. This win advances them to the finals with the winner of the Eu-Phi match which will come
off in the near future. The query debated on Friday night was Resolved, That the United States should adopt the
Cabinet-Parliamentary form of government. N. C. McLeod opened the affirmative arguments with a thorough review of conditions as they now
are in contrast with conditions at the time when our government was formed. He stressed the fact that a remedy
was needed to make our government responsive to the will of the people, democratic in its working, and efficient in
its lawmaking. H. L. Shaw, Jr. opened the negative side by giving the affirmative the duty of showing first of
all that conditions warranted such a vital change in our present form of government; secondly, that cabinet government was superior
to presidential government, and third to show that cabinet government was suited to the needs of the United States. His
main arguments went to show that our government was efficient and that the Cabinet form was not. The second speaker
for the affirmative, Claude McIntosh, enumerated the faults found in our government—namely; that it is irresponsive, undemocratic, and inefficient. Following
came the next negative speaker, A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr. He emphasized the remarkable manner in which the United States has
grown since its formation in 1789, and used this as his basis for asserting that our present government is far
from being inefficient. D. B. Wharton closed the affirmative with a support of the Cabinet form of government, asserting that
it was responsive, flexible, and efficient, and contrasting it with the presidential form which, he declared, had none of the
three above-mentioned good qualities. H. B. Price, the third speaker for the negative, pointed to the lack of stability in
the newly proposed form of government. He declared the cabinet form to be lacking in steady and consistent leadership due
to the uncertain tenure of office of its officials. He declared that the presidential form had been adopted by most
of the newly formed nations of the world. In the rejoinders, all of which were of the spirited and wide
awake nature, there came a direct clash of opinion, each side attempting to...Refute identically the main points brought out by
the opposition. This made the debate unusually full of fight. The order of speaking for the rejoinders was affirmative, negative,
affirmative, negative, negative, affirmative. The debate was held in the Eumenean Society Hall. J. H. Grey presided, and the judges
were Doctor Lingle, Doctor Shewmake, and Professor Fleagle. The Fresh-Soph debating medal awarded by the individual societies was won by
D. B. Wharton of the Met society. The Pan medal will be awarded in the finals.

PROFESSORS SHOCKED BY MUSIC IN CHAPEL

It had not been known before Friday morning that there were electrical experts at Davidson, but the exciting events coming
at the hour of chapel proved that there are geniuses here whose praises have been unsung. The recent exploration of
King Tut's tomb pales into insignificance as compared with the daring plot unearthed by the faculty when several members of
that august body were shocked by the aforesaid con- No sooner had the first strains of the hymn been sung,
than when the gently drowsing members of the Student Body were awakened by much unseemly commotion caused by the faculty
coming to attention at one and the same instant. Squirming and wriggling of the worst kind was seen all over
the stage and the attention of all was drawn to the bench which was innocently reposing where it sits week
in and week out. The more brave of the professors sat down again but only to rise again.

There was no doubt about it, the faculty was shocked. Two small rocking chairs offered consolation for two of the
faculty members but the rest were forced to remain in the vicinity of the infernal machine which was doing its
deadly work. No visible evidence of the nature of the agent causing the alarm was noticed by the students but
it was there at any rate. A post-chapel examination of the scene of the scare revealed a complete electrical piano
and its outside workings in the shape of two fine wires strung out along the front bench. The pedal of
the piano was arranged so that it would close the circuit, thus causing a thrilling current to meander through the
wires. The pedal-switch was synchronized with the seating of the faculty and that was the reason for the wave-like motions
of the performers on the front seat. No serious damage was done except a few wounded feelings.

WILDCAT RUNNERS DEFEATED BY CLEMSON

(Continued from Page 1)

He bettered the college record by two inches when he pole vaulted 11 feet. The old record established by Wooten
'96 has stood for nearly thirty years. When it comes to jumping the Wildcats are right there. Gracey was high
man again with 7 1/4 points, winning two second places and tying for another. Gracey, entering in five events, is
the best all-around track man Davidson has seen in some time, and with two years to go, great things may
be expected. Davidson started out strong, taking first and second places in the shot put, Lindamood and Gracey doing the
honors. Clemson came back by winning both places in an exciting low hurdle race. Mallory was leading the field when
he tipped a hurdle and lost his stride, while Wade and Mace for Clemson just beat Dick to the tape
by a hair. In the high jump Gracey and Pepper dropped out at 5 feet 8 inches. Hall cleared 5
feet 10 inches, but failed to make it the next time. Calhoun made 6 feet by the measurement on the
standard, but a tape showed that the bar sagged a half an inch making his jump 5 feet 11 3/4
inches. Clemson took a big lead in the sprints, 100 and 220 yard dashes as well as in the quarter
and half mile runs. Davidson put up a stout scrap but was outclassed. Chandler was probably the fastest man on
Sprunt Field since Hack Murray used to show 'em how to run. Chandler’s time on the hundred was 10:1 and
he took the two twenty in 23:3. Wood's time on the half mile was 2:01.6, within two seconds of the
college record, and Rice crossed the line in front of Galaway after a heart-breaking fight for second place. Zeigler and
Killian for Clemson won the 440 yard run, Zeigler doing it in 54:4. The mile was fast. Young, for Clemson
making it 4:41 while Speck McConnell tied the college record of 4:44 for second place. Huggins gave Clemson first place
in two mile but Selser beat Wiliford out for second place. Red McCombs took the javelin at 152.8 feet with
Hall for Clemson second. After several attempts Red managed to get a good throw off. Mace took first in the
high hurdles with Gracey a close second. It was a tight race and all four men showed pretty form in
clearing the obstacles. Chandler, Clemson’s fast dash man, was high man winning two firsts with Mace second with a first
and a second. After the showing Friday afternoon, Davidson can be counted on showing some strong competition to the contenders
in the state meet. With three college records already broken and from the looks of things now several more will
be broken before the end of the year, this season has all the indications of being the best in recent
years.

SUMMARY:

100 yard dash—Chandler, Clemson; Robinson, Clemson. Time 10.1
220 yard dash—Chandler, Clemson; Robinson, Clemson. Time 23.3.
440 yard dash—Zeigler, Clemson; Killian, Clemson. Time 54.4.
One mile run—Young, Clemson; McConnell, Davidson. Time 4:41.
Two mile run—Huggins, Clemson; Selser, Davidson. Time 10:40.4.
Shot put—Lindamood, Davidson; Gracey, Davidson. Distance 36.9 feet.
Pole vault—Streibich, Davidson; Gracey, Davidson and Pepper, Clemson, tied for second. Height 11 feet.
Discus—Finklea, Clemson; Dennent, Clemson. Distance 113 feet 6 1/4 inches.
Javelin—McCombs, Davidson; Hall, Clemson. Height 5 feet 11 3/4 inches.
Broad jump—Pepper, Clemson; Hall, Clemson. Distance 20.8 feet.
110 yard low hurdles—Wade, Clemson; Mace, Clemson. Time 12.8 sec.
110 yard high hurdles—Mace, Clemson; Gracey, Davidson. Time 14.8 sec.

NEW WATTS AND SOUTH WING WILL BE ERECTED

(Continued from Page 1)

ened walls and heaps of broken brick to a bare spot on the campus. A small quantity of brick and
tile were salvaged but most of the ruins were useless. Authorities are working on plans for the new Chambers and
trying to get them ready as soon as possible. Work will begin on the south wing as soon as the
plans can be completed and the contract awarded. So far two sets of preliminary plans have been submitted, one of
which is at present under consideration. The architect was on the hill the early part of April looking over the
situation. The south wing is to consist of classrooms and offices, most of which will be ready for use by
next September. All offices will be moved from the library to the south wing of Chambers, leaving the vacated rooms
for the use of the library. The speed with which work on the new building is progressing has been noticed
by everyone, especially that on the ruins of Watts. Practically all the debris was removed in a single week. Where
Chambers once stood there are now only a few heaps of brick enclosed in the last remnants of a granite
foundation.

Well, the latest news is now out, Mike Patrick has just finished a sixty-page letter to his girl. He must
have copied the newspaper. He claims that he didn’t have any trouble until he came to the sixtieth page and
that he had a terrible time filling up that page. Pat must have a hefty line.

BETTER SERVICE RALPH’S BARBER SHOP New Location KNOX BUILDING

Tell your physics prof. that this cap defies gravity

SHAVING cream caps have an uncanny habit of chumming with gravity. That’s why the Williams’ Hinged Cap shown here is
so remarkable. You can’t persuade it to roll down a drain pipe. It refuses to go near the bathroom floor.
In brief, it defies all previous laws governing the behavior of shaving cream caps. Williams’ Shaving Cream, in the same
way, upsets all traditions about shaving. First of all, it exceeds every known speed limit for softening the beard. You
can get your face ready for shaving in less time with Williams’ than with any shaving cream you ever used.
In the second place, Williams’ has a positive effect for good on the skin. Your face, with the wholesome care
which Williams’ gives, is kept in better condition and made more comfortable. Test out these advantages which Williams’ offers. Start
with Williams’ to-morrow and see what a time saver it is and how it helps make shaving more enjoyable.

Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!
