THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 22, 1923

ALUMNI NEWS

SOMETHING ABOUT CLASS ’22

In answer to a number of inquiries sent out during the past week, the Alumni Editor has received and tabulated
a chronicle of the locations, positions, and future plans of the 1922 Davidson Alumni. We find that the members of
that class have indeed been scattered to the proverbial “four winds,” and as the letters drifted in, we were surprised
to know that the members of the class of '22 can now be found from Florida to Maryland and from
the Atlantic to the Pacific. This department wishes to extend to those men who have sent in the information requested
the hearty thanks of the Davidsonian and the college. We are always glad to hear from the old men and
hope that they will remember their Alma Mater by frequent letters. This department can be reached through Box 45.

Fred “Highpockets” Streibich, who broke the Davidson record in the shot put, postmarks his letter at Yazoo City, Miss., where
he occupies an important position with the Yazoo and Mississippi Valley Railroad Company. He has been with this company since
last May and enjoys the work fine; but he also tells us that “there is never a time that I
wouldn’t like to be back at ole Davidson. If I were to live to be a hundred years old, I
would never forget the night we came back from a hard battle with W. & L. in 1919. They beat
us 7 to 9. We arrived at Davidson about 12:30 or 1 P.M., and the whole student body was standing
out in the rain and the band was playing ‘O! Davidson.’ The general uproar was: ‘Our team, win or lose.’
I wonder if the student body is still saying ‘Our team, win or lose.’ Fellows, let’s show ol’ Highpockets that
we are quoting that old chant, and that heart and soul we are for the grand old Red and Black
and ‘Our Team, win or lose.’”

Walkup K. McCain writes us on a letterhead bearing the caption “Professor of Science Department, Palmer College, De Funiak Springs,
Fla.” and that tells the story of where he is. McCain, while at Davidson, was a member of Sigma Pi
Sigma, the Physics frat here, and achieved such success in his work that he was called immediately to Palmer College
as Science professor from whence he writes: “I am finding lots of work to do, but like it and am
getting along O.K.”

C. B. Beall, ex-’22, is now associate professor of French and Italian at the University of South Carolina. After leaving
Davidson, Beall spent fifteen months in France where he attended the Universities of Dijon and Paris and from there he
went to Johns Hopkins where he graduated in 1922. He left immediately for the college where he now teaches and
is ably filling his position. He tells us that he has accepted a fellowship offered him in the Romance Language
Department of Johns Hopkins and will go back there for his Ph.D. degree, taking graduate work and teaching there at
the same time.

From J. H. McKeitham we hear that he has been selected principal of the Clarkton (N.C.) High School, which position
he has held during the past year. He writes that while his future plans are uncertain, he is “seriously thinking
of taking Law next year at the University of Pennsylvania.”

H. H. Drake, ex-’22, is located at Minden, La., as a merchant with various other commercial interests. His future plans
are a continuation of his present interests. Quoting him, “I am ever interested in Davidson and its progress, and always
am glad to hear news from the Hill.”

Charles B. “Texas” Sanders sends us a letter full of news and information about himself and his work. He is
now a freshman in the medical department at the University of Texas, standing high in his class. He writes: “In
the years gone by I thought I worked hard at college, but since I’ve been here, I have really found
out what work is with class hours from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. (Take notice ye ‘cut’ cranks—Editor.) with an
hour for dinner and occasionally an open hour in the week.” Sanders also tells us that he is planning to
return to North Carolina as soon as his school closes, in which case he will spend a few days at
Davidson during the opening of the fall term. It will be interesting to know that Charles is a member of
the Phi Chi medical fraternity.

L. A. Woten is principal of Ravenford School, Ravenford, N.C., and is expecting to re-enter Louisville Seminary next year.

F. W. Smith is assistant principal of Mt. Ulla School, near Mooresville. He expects to go into business at the
close of the present school year.

After graduating last spring, J. K. Price attended the Massachusetts Institute of Technology for seven months. He left there February
1 to accept a position with Estabrook & Co., Bankers and Brokers of Boston, Mass. His residence address is 33
Bay State Road; his business address, 15 State St., care of Estabrook & Co., both in Boston.

C. E. Cunningham is at present teaching Chemistry in Charlotte High School, but he plans to enter the Medical Department
of Emory University, Atlanta, Ga., next year. He sends this message to his classmates: “Fellows, an enviable record is ours.
Now we'll give life our best and prove those folks right who said, ‘You watch the Class of '22.’” His
address is 812 S. Tryon St., Charlotte, N.C.

The class of ’22 is represented at Elba High School, Elba, Ala. by B. H. Boyd, Jr., who is teaching
science there. He hopes to take up the study of medicine next year.

I. Henry Patterson is teaching at Bedford, Va., this year. He says, “I am having the greatest time of my
life teaching in the best little town in Uncle Sam’s territory. I like teaching but my chiefest joy is coaching
all the athletics—it’s great fun coaching girls’ basketball; we don’t have anything but pretty girls here, but gracious, they are
plentiful.” He expects to enter Union Seminary next year.

“Rooster” McFadden is teaching History and coaching athletics at Greensboro High School this year. He will enter the University of
South Carolina to study law next year.

D. P. McGeachy, Jr., is an instructor in mathematics at Greenbrier Military School, Lewisburg, W. Va.

James M. Gilmer is at present in the mercantile business with his father at Marion Junction, Ala.

Alban E. Rogers, ex-'22, who is now a senior at Swarthmore College, writes that he is still loyal to the
old school.

Oscar M. Dugger, Jr., ex-’22, finished his freshman year at Davidson and completed the A.B. course at mid-year of the
'21-'22 season at the University of Alabama. He was elected a member of Phi Beta Kappa, Alpha Chapter of Alabama.
At present, he is associate editor of the Andalusia Star, after having held a position with the Birmingham Age-Herald. He
sends greetings to the fellows of his class and to the student body and faculty of old D.C. and states
that he expects to pursue the calling which combines “Underwoods, paste pots, scissors and printer’s ink,” which he has so
auspiciously begun.

“I trust that everything is going on fine on the Hill and that every succeeding class of Davidson will strive
to graduate better men than the preceding one,” writes M. M. Erwin, who is now assistant cashier of the Bank
of Honea Path, S.C.

Leighton T. Horton, '22, is engaged with the Western Union Life Insurance Company, at Spokane, Wash. Horton says: “Please give
my best regards to any of the class of ’22 you may see and I hope some day to meet
them there again on the old D.C. campus. Am glad to hear you have adopted a standard class ring.”Here and
There

PROMINENT PHYSICIAN

J. S. Brown, 89, received his diploma from Davidson as a graduate of the A.B. course. While here he ranked
high as a student and won the Essayist medal given yearly by the literary societies. From Davidson, he went to
Northwestern University, Chicago, getting his M.D. degree there in 1893, and is now practicing medicine in Hendersonville, N.C. Together with
this practice, he writes that he finds recreation in developing two splendid apple orchards. Mr. Brown will be continuously represented
at Davidson for twelve years, from 1917 to 1929, as the father of three sons, James, Ben, and John Brown.

1922 MEN AT UNION SEMINARY

B. B. Breitenhirt, ex-’22, went to Hampden-Sidney College after his sophomore year at Davidson. In his senior year there he
was president of his class, member of the football team, and winner of the highest scholastic honors of his class.
He is now dividing with James Sprunt the honor of the class of ’25 at Union Seminary, each of them
making a perfect paper in Hebrew for the first term.

C. G. Brown, ’22, is studying hard and waiting for the baseball season to open up so he can bring
his skill on the diamond into use on the Seminary baseball team.

W. E. Crane, '22, was chosen last fall to pilot the class of ’25 over its freshman year. He is
the only benedict of the ’22 club so far, but Murdock McLeod hopes he will not occupy that position much
longer.

J. I. Knight, '22, though bothered with sickness right after Christmas, caught up with his work and is now getting
his joints limbered up in preparation for the track season. His skill as a shot putter and discus thrower will
be a great asset to the Seminary track team.

H. R. Poole, ’22, though a hard student, has not become so engrossed in his studies that he forgets more
pleasant things of life. He is to be seen at all the social events and is very rarely seen at
them by himself.

James Sprunt, '22, is keeping up his Davidson record of having a hand in almost every worthy activity of student
life. Besides his outside work, he finds time to set the class a pace in a scholastic way, which few
can follow.

J. C. Wool, ’22, while not being able to keep his managership of the Davidsonian in his Seminary course, compromised
by rooming with the business manager of the Union Seminary Review. F. E. Manning, ex-’22, is reported to have a
working schedule from 6 a.m. to 12 p.m., yet it is known that all his evenings are not spent at
his desk.

W. W. Moore, '22, though disappointed in the fact that there was no football team this year, had his grief
somewhat assuaged with the coming of the basketball season. He proved a valuable addition to that squad yet he did
not let it impair his reputation as a thorough and conscientious student.

W. M. McLeod, ’22, has found the atmosphere of a certain town in North Carolina beneficial to his health. This
is proved by his frequent weekend excursions. He is reported to have studied Hebrew on his way down but the
poems of Keats have a tremendous appeal to him on his return trip.

J. L. Parks, ’22, was troubled with sickness last fall and had to leave Seminary for a time. Fortunately, he
has recovered his health and is getting back into his work. He hopes to make up his work and keep
along with the class of '25.

Coach Currie’s Diamond (Continued from Page one)

rells, the regular gunners of last year, will be materially augmented by the addition of several sturdy new men—Potts, McLaughlin,
Johnson, Mauze, Laird, and others. This combination of veterans and rookies should be strong enough to take care of any
rival. Hunter, a right-hand speed ball artist, is unusually powerful and should put many a game in the family cupboard
this season. Boushee and Sorrells serve ’em up from the wrong side and rate among the best southpaws in state
collegiate circles. The new men are all showing up in great style.

The back-stop assignment will probably be placed on the capable shoulders of Brice, utility man of last year. This boy,
while not a finished catcher, can stop any of them, and has a good arm. His long suit is the
ability to whale the pellet often and far away. In Black, McCutcheon, and McDonald, Coach Currie has a likely looking
bunch of second-string catchers.

Around Captain Pat Crawford, one of the best collegiate ball players in the state, Buck hopes to build a dependable
infield. The inner line of defense is causing the popular coach many hours of worry. It is as yet uncertain
as to who will start the first game at the infield positions, Captain Crawford, of course, being excepted. Ted Covington,
who showed such promise last season, seems to have the inside track for the hot corner position. Ted’s defensive work
is above reproach. He is remarkably fast, has a great throwing arm that enables him to shoot the ball across
the diamond like a streak, and his ability to cover ground places him in a class by himself. Covington had
a weakness for curveball pitching last season. This deficiency, which probably deprived him of a position on the team last
year, seems to have been remedied.

The short-stop position is the one causing the most trouble. Alford, Sappenfield, and Bachman have tried their hand at the
job, but no one has as yet shown the ability to cover the assignment. Not since the days of Frog
Cassell has the Red and Black been supplied with a first-class man in the short field positions. Coach Buck hopes
to develop one of the above trio into a steady man.

McKay and Simpson are having a merry scrap for the keystone position. The ever-smiling Mickey seems to have a slight
edge on the former Oglethorpe player. Both men have so far been a bit backward in their work with the
ash.

Veteran of three seasons, two of which he was placed on the all-state team, Captain Crawford is out to make
this season, which is his last, his best. Pat’s form on the initial sack has caused many favorable comments from
all who have seen him. He is far more agile than most front door guardians. He can telescope for the
wide ones and dig up the low ones. He led the team last year at the bat with an average
of .374.

Left field will be taken care of by Alford or Morrow, the odds at present being on the former. He
is sure death on fly balls, has a great peg, and has shown up well in batting practice. Morrow is
also a good man and will hotly contest the position.

Dick Richards, the diminutive lad (Continued on Page 8)

Leadership — CHERO-COLA GRAPE-MELO ORANGE-MELO ARE PRE-EMINENT!

Arch B. Taylor 1911

V I C C A R O L A HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS Pianos and Players Gibson Guitars and Mandolins SHEET MUSIC

You Can Never Foresee The Unexpected INSURANCE PROTECTS YOU AND YOURS

W. E. PRICE 215 Piedmont Building CHARLOTTE, N.C.

BETTER SAFE THAN SORRY

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL" ANDREWS MUSIC STORE 211-213 N. TRYON ST.

NONE TOO SMALL

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank CHARLOTTE, N.C.

A. I. T. SUMMEY, Cashier

STEWART, Assistant Cashier

McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

President

ERSON, Vice-President

STON, Vice-President

Fire insurance is considered essential to the conduct of business but many men of affairs overlook insuring that which is
behind all business, their health.

McAlister Carson, manager (’13) INSURANCE DEPARTMENT INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.
