THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

LITERARY NEWS

LANGUAGE ASSOCIATION WILL MEET IN DURHAM

The Modern Language Association of North Carolina, of which Professor Thomas W. Lingle is president, will hold its third annual
meeting at Trinity College, in Durham, N. C., on April 6th and 7th. An interesting and practical program has been
arranged for the three sessions of the conference. The first session will be devoted to the study of problems connected
with Modern Language work in the secondary schools of the State. Dr. D. B. Easter, of Washington and Lee University,
will be the guest of honor and the chief speaker at the second session. Doctor Easter’s theme will be “The
Preparation of the Modern Language Teacher.” Following this meeting there will be a reception, arranged by Trinity College, at which
the teachers of Modern Languages will have the opportunity to make the personal acquaintance of their co-workers from every part
of North Carolina. The separate meetings of the French, German, and Spanish sections will be held on Saturday morning and
the conference will close with a business meeting immediately following.

PANDEMIC MEMBERS HOTLY CONTEST DEBATE

The Pandemic Literary Society held its regular meeting Tuesday, March 20th. The subject for the regular debate was: Resolved, That
the states should adopt proportional legislation. Davis, J. H., was appointed extemporaneously to uphold the affirmative with Franklin in the
absence of the regular debater. The point was closely contested, one of the negative offering for the approval of the
society a “Single ballot plan” instead of the proposed plan, whereby each voter should cast a ballot for one candidate
and thereby secure representatives suited to a greater number of the population. The decision was awarded to the affirmative. The
other events of the program were J. R. Maxwell, declamation; W. T. Baker, oration, and A. P. Hudgins, current events.
The declamation was a humorous representation of a love affair between a young black couple. The oration was Achieving Greatness.
It was well thought out and instructive and was delivered in a fluent manner. The current events were selections from
the best news that could be procured at the time.

PHI SOCIETY ENJOYS INTERESTING PROGRAM

The question for debate on Thursday night at the Phi Society meeting was one of timely interest, as the political
parties of the U. S. were involved. The query, Resolved, That the U. S. should adopt a policy of proportionate
representation was upheld by C. E. Houston and R. M. McGirt, while H. M. Wells and J. E. Holtshouser argued
for the negative. The affirmative won out, but not without a fight, for the negative put up a good defense.
R. O. Sellars gave several selections from Current Events, and A. B. Williford gave his declamation on The Voice of
the Flag with a force that set forth the strength and manhood for which our National emblem stands, and, although
its history has been told time and again, the old chandelier which hangs in the hall was again chosen as
a subject for an oration by R. H. Browne.

EUMANEANS HEAR FOUR SPEAKING ASPIRANTS

The Eumanean Society held its regular meeting last Thursday. Preliminaries for Junior Speaking were held and four renowned orators of
the Junior class strove mightily for the coveted right to become Junior Speakers. The successful men were R. H. Smith
and L. D. Elkins. The first oration, “America’s Failure”, was well delivered by A. M. Hillhouse. He lamented America’s lack
of courage to accept the moral leadership of the world through that great working union of 53 countries, the League
of Nations, even though that league was conceived by an American. “Provincial America” was the subject of R. H. Smith’s
oration. He pointed out in a forceful manner how America refused world leadership because of her provincialism. W. T. Jones’
subject was “Stiffen Your Vertebrae”. He maintained that many people fail to develop the qualities that make up leadership and
personality through their fear of criticism. “Lincoln's Heritage” was the subject of the oration by L. D. Elkins. He showed
how Lincoln met and overcame gigantic obstacles and how our country needs men like Lincoln to carry it on. The
judges were Douglas, Foreman, and Wagner. The opening prayer was given by P. B. Freeland. The society adjourned after voting
to change the time of meeting from 7:00 to 7:15 P. M.

METROPHILIANS HAVE BEST MEETING OF YEAR

The Metrophilians held their best meeting of the year on last Tuesday evening. The subject for regular debate was: Resolved,
That the United States should adopt the form of proportional representation. The speakers showed good preparation, presented their points well,
and warmly supported them. The judges decided in favor of the negative. Bradford and Henderson upheld the affirmative against McIntosh
and McLeod. The subject for extemporaneous debate was, Resolved: That, with respect to the powers of nature, the Government should
provide vapor ovens to protect fruit against late frost. The points were hotly contested, but the judges decided in favor
of the negative. A. M. Hurd rendered an oration on Vandalism, and Dr. Porter made a few helpful remarks to
the society.

Court of Control Working Faithfully with Freshmen

(Continued from Page 1)

There is a large amount of evidence against the man in question, that body always follows the instructions of the
men who do the reporting. The Court is striving by every possible means to cooperate with those upperclassmen who take
interest enough in the freshmen class to report men and it will use every power within its grasp to see
that justice is done both to freshmen and upperclassmen. Were it not for the fact that a crowd of students
would detract from the efficiency of the Court’s actions, students would be permitted to attend the meetings. As it is,
that body has requested the presence of several outsiders at different times and all who have attended approve of the
methods used. The Freshman who is to appear is brought before the Court which usually meets in one of the
halls on the campus. If the charges are serious enough to warrant it, he is sworn in; if not he
is asked to take a seat in front of the judge. The judge then asks the clerk to read the
charge and the man before the Court can either deny or accept it. Shouldhe do either he is asked if
he has anything to say and when he has finished the Court, individually questions him. If the case needs no
more attention than a straight talk, the Court talks to him personally, individually, man to man, and the freshman is
at liberty to accept or reject what is said, at his pleasure. If the case is serious enough to deserve
a further penalty than a stiff talk, the freshman is taken outside while the Court debates on the evidence and
decides on the punishment. The man in question is then brought again before the Court and informed of its decision.
He is at liberty to accept or appeal to a higher body. This is the general procedure followed. And the
talks that the freshmen receive are not lukewarm, either. So far as the Court has been able to determine, however,
all of the men who have appeared have taken what was said in the proper spirit and have expressed their
appreciation for what was said to them.

T.D. Young Gordon, while returning to his room the other night from a visit, was evidently living in dreams, for
he suddenly roused himself from his reveries to find that he had fallen into the mudhole near the gym.

Prof (in Business Psychology): Mr. Parrish, what is an advertisement?
Parrish: An advertisement is the picture of a pretty girl eating, wearing, holding, or driving something that somebody wants to
sell.

R.O.T.C. NEWS
PROGRAM OF EVENTS
HONOR FLAG COMPETITION
APRIL 11, 1923.

EVENTS
Group I—3:30 P.M.
A Co. vs. B Co.
C Co. vs. D Co.
Jump stick relay—16 men and team captain.
Medicine ball relay—16 men and team captain.
Tug-of-war—10 men and team captain.

Group II—3:45 P.M.
Running broad jump—16 men and section leader.
Wall scaling—7 men and team captain.
Close order drill—16 men and section leader.
Manual of arms—16 men and section leader.

Group III—4:00 P.M.
Running broad jump (completion).
Hundred yard dash—32 men and platoon leader.

Group IV—4:15 P.M.
Jump stick relay—Finals.
Medicine ball relay—Finals.
Tug-of-war—Finals.

Group V—4:30 P.M.
Parade and award of honor flag.

SCORING
Group I.
Winners Losers
Jump stick relay .......... 10 5
Medicine ball relay ........ 10 5
Tug-of-war ............... 10 5

Group II.
Running broad jump—One point for each man who jumps 15 feet or more.
Wall scaling ............. 10 8 6 4
Close order drill .......... 20 17 14 11
Manual of arms—One point for each movement correctly executed.

Group III.
Hundred yard dash—One point for each man across the tape in 13 seconds.

Group IV.
1st 2nd
Jump stick relay finals .......... 10 7
Medicine ball relay finals ........ 10 7
Tug-of-war finals ............... 10 7

Group V.
Honor flag to company having won most points.

The freshmen are now using the outdoor range. Huie, Joyner, Deck, and McCarty have made the best scores. Sappenfield and
Williford now know that the rifles kick.

Dy Mack: Demoville, I would rather hear you laugh than eat.
Bill: Most of us would.—The Hillbilly.

Hugh Martin says it's too much trouble to fight the girls off, so he just lets ’em kiss him.

Waiter, at the trough, holding out cup: Tea or coffee, George?
Dupuy: Don’t tell me—let me guess.

What’s Doing
FRIDAY
10:00 A.M.—Junior Oratorical Contest.
2:30 P.M.—Baseball, Oak Ridge vs. Davidson.
8:00 P.M.—Dramatic Club Plays.

SATURDAY
10:00 A.M.—Class Football, Seniors vs. Sophs. Juniors vs. Fresh.
2:30 P.M.—Baseball, Oak Ridge vs. Davidson.
5:00 P.M.—Pink Tea.
8:30 P.M.—Cabaret at Gymnasium.

SUNDAY
10:00 A.M.—Volunteer and Ministerial Bands.
6:15 P.M.—“Y” Service, Doctor Frazer, of Owen’s.

MONDAY
7:15 P.M.—Picture Show. Brady in Missing Millions.

TUESDAY
7:15 P.M.—Pandemic Society.
8:00 P.M.—Metropolitan Society.

WEDNESDAY
7:00 P.M.—Bible Classes.

THURSDAY
7:00 P.M.—Eu and Phi Society.

Foreign Financial Status, Lectured on by Mr. Higgs (Continued from Page 1)
The affairs in England ended on a note of hope that things would right themselves in time. The government of
France has loaned the people many times more than she has received from Germany, and her situation is becoming more
critical every day. The crying need of France combined with the feeling that she is being dealt with unfairly are
the factors at the bottom of the Ruhr occupation. If England and France are in serious difficulties, the position of
Germany is far worse. Mr. Higgs did not go into a long discussion as to whether or not Germany had
money, but confined himself, in large measure, to showing how hard it was for the government to get the money
from the people. Threatened by both Monarchists and Bolsheviks, the government fears to tax the people for money to pay
unpopular debts lest there be a great revolution. Instead, the question is postponed by the issue of paper money.

BETTER SERVICE
RALPH'S BARBER SHOP
New Location
KNOX BUILDING

Williams’ VII — the softest course in college
WILLIAMS’ VII is a course for every man in the institution. It’s seven times a week but the sessions are
short—less than five minutes each. And best of all, no man who elects Williams’ ever fails—to get a better shave
than he ever got before. The first thing you learn in shaving with Williams’ is the beneficial effect it has
on your skin. You can’t fail to be impressed—even after the closest examination—with the fact that here, at last, is
a shaving cream which really does your face good. Then, especially if you’re of a practical, business-like turn of mind,
you’ll be pleased with the efficiency of Williams’. It softens the beard in so much less time. It does everything
a shaving cream is supposed to do. Get a tube of Williams’ today. Use it for two months. See then
if you ever could go back to any other shaving cream. Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the
tube hangs up!

May we suggest: Spring is here and with it that very natural desire for the lighter foods—especially at meal times.
Duke’s Mayonnaise, Swift and Kraft cheese, Underwood’s Deviled Ham, Heinz and L. & S. Pickles and Olives, National Crackers, Carolina
Bread, Florida Sealdsweet Oranges and Oregon Apples—at prices much lower than you would expect?

THE M. H. GOODRUM & CO.
Grocery Department
