= | THE DAVIDSONIAN

Fire! Fire! FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. MARCH 22, 1923 No. 21

LIFE SERVICE CONFERENCES CONDUCTED BY DR. MELTON

Active Campaign Waged by Y. M. C. A.: To Help Students Solve Life Problems.

FIVE DAYS ACTIVITY

Young Peoples Worker Aids in Services by Leading Singing.

Under the auspices of the College Y. M. C. A., Dr. Melton, former pastor of prominent churches in North and South Carolina, and now a member of the faculty of Columbia Theological Seminary, conducted the Spring Life Service Campaign, which closed last Sunday night. The series of inspirational services was begun Wednesday evening and continued through Sunday, with the omission of the Saturday evening service. Dr. Clark spoke at the chapel hour each morning in addition to the main service of the evening, and filled the pulpit of the Presbyterian church at both Sunday services.

WEDNESDAY SERVICE

The Call to Service was sounded by Doctor Clark in his opening sermon. He took as his text the words of Isaiah, “Also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? Then said I, Here am I, send me.” The speaker said in part, “God speaks in various ways. He calls men in different ways, but He calls all men to service for Him.” Doctor Clark called into a touching illustration such as he used throughout his sermons, which help to drive home to his hearers the great truths he propounds. “When there is a response in our lives to the will of God, our lives will become a blessing to the world. Our lives are made big and grand by carrying out His will.

(Continued on Page 6)

Basketball Manager

In a recent election for the basketball managership of next year, W. Z. Bradford won out over J. F. Smith by the narrow margin of four votes. Both had proved their ability for this kind of work and it was nip and tuck as to who should get the position. Bradford was one of the two assistant managers last fall. All indications point toward the 1924 basketball schedule as the best yet. There will be the regular trips through the South, and in addition tentative plans have been made for a trip through Virginia. Bradford is also endeavoring to have the Wildcat Quintet represent Davidson in the annual basketball tournament which is held in Atlanta each spring. The basketball champions of the South are determined at the tournament.

DR. CLARK OF COLUMBIA SEMINARY

JUNIOR SPEAKING PROMISES TO ECLIPSE PREVIOUS ONES

Movies, Class Football and Dramatic Club to Add to Festivities.

FOUR HOLIDAYS

Classes Vote Unanimous Support to Committee at Recent Meeting.

The stage is set! Plans are complete, details are perfected, and the orchestra is jazzing a snappy overture, while Stage Directors Ted Jones, Wiggs Bradford, Liston Elkins, ’Lias Faison and Alky Jones are shouting for the hands to run up the curtain on the biggest hit of the season—Junior Speaking. With four full glorious holidays of freedom from the cares of the world, the junior class proposes to set a festivity record that has never been paralleled, and that will serve as a worthy goal toward which all future classes at Davidson will set their eye. They present for the pleasure of the student body one of the most attractive programs ever offered at Davidson, and with the support of the Wildcat Clan, they have every opportunity of making the occasion one of history. Take heed! ye Creoles, lest Mardi Gras be overshadowed.

The cautious committee who are entrusted with the arrangement of the program for the weekend, are about as talkative as the proverbial clam, but they have allowed enough “confidential stuff” to pass their lips to assure the students and visitors a jam-up good time from Friday morning till the big hours of Saturday night. Adam’s Rib, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., should prove a fitting introduction Thursday night. Toney declares this one of the best pictures he could book for the occasion. If indications are worth anything, and if ole man dope doesn’t spill the beans, the “fire” for the occasion will come multitudinously and voluminously from the quarters of the Southland. All college property is being heavily insured and fire equipment installed, much to the financial distress of the students and to the jubilant praise of countless “ikeys and izzies,” who have hailed from the most modern haberdasheries of the country.

The Senior, Sophomore and Freshman classes, in meetings this week, voted their support to the Junior class and pledged to carry out the spirit of Junior Speaking to the fullest degree. Though the student body will not remain on the Hill en masse, a large (Continued on page 8)

WHERE gladdened hearts are looking to. The best time of the year; WHEN springtime blossoms the air And leave a note of cheer. WHY such it is of wondrous worth, Exceeding that last fall, WHO free from cares of books a while Won't heed the clarion call? WHAT is it then that looms in front, A gladsome time for all? JUNIOR SPEAKING!

DRAMATIC CLUB TO PUBLISH FIRST YEAR BOOK OF PLAYS

Book To Contain Original Play And Account of Minstrel Trip.

In keeping with the progress being made in College dramatics, the Davidson Dramatic Club is planning to issue a yearbook that will compare with similar publications issued by the North Carolina Playmakers. The book will probably contain all the plays written by members of the Club that have been produced here, including the casts and probably some pictures of each. There will also be a picture of the Dramatic Club. The write-up, program, etc., of the minstrel trip will be one of the main articles. E. T. Woolfolk, president of the Club, will act as editor-in-chief and W. J. Cooper as business manager. The rest of the staff will be chosen later. The bookwill be issued before Commencement if possible and will be sold to the members of the student body at as low a price as is practical. It is (Continued on Page 5)

Davidsonian Election

Liston D. Elkins, of Waycross, Ga., a member of the rising Senior class, was elected editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian for the next year at a meeting of the student body Tuesday, March 13th. His opponent was H. R. Jones, W. Z. Bradford having withdrawn from the race before the election.

Elkins is one of the foremost journalists in the Davidson student body and his election comes as a reward of much time and effort spent in the interest of the Davidsonian. He has had several years’ practical newspaper work on the staff of a city daily and three years experience on the Davidsonian. He is well fitted for the office which he will fill next year, as he has served in the capacity of Managing Editor the present year.

COACH CURRIE’S VERDANT FOUR STRONG TEAMS TO BE OUT BY 1923 CINDER SQUAD

Team Presents Its Strongest Front in Various Field Events.

MANY VETERANS

Team to be Determined by Time Trial at an Early Date.

In spite of the prevailing bad weather the Wildcat track artists have been putting in a lot of hard work on Sprunt Field since the first call for candidates last month. Several preliminary trials have been held, and though the men to wear the Red and Black in the first meet will not be selected for a couple of weeks yet, Coach Grey has been enabled to get a good idea of what material he has on hand. The first meet is with South Carolina on April 5th and by that time the squad should be in pretty good shape.

In the field events the Wildcats ought to be stronger than ever before, and in Gracey, Streibich, McCombs, Calhoun, and Lindamood, they have some strong men to array against their opponents. Gracey is the most versatile man on the squad, and last year was high point man for the season. He is equally at home in the pole vault, high jump, hurdles, javelin, and broad jump, and will give his opponents trouble in all of them. Streibich was with the Wildcats in ’21, and is returning for another year on the hurdles and jumps. Both Streibich and Gracey are in their element on the track and are working hard to make this year the best yet.

Calhoun will probably be the mainstay in the high jump. Last year the long boy reached 5 feet 8 inches, but since that time he has bettered that mark on several occasions. He has his eye set at six feet this year. The loss of Regen, due to a recent operation, was a hard blow in the weights. Regen showed promise of fitting into the place that Big Knight filled so well last year. With Regen gone, Lindamood will probably do most of the shot putting, while McCombs and Gracey will take care of the javelin. The discus is one of the events that is at present untenanted. Several men are working on it, however, and it is hoped that in a week or two someone will be found to fill the place.

In the track events the Wildcats have only two veterans to rely on. Leonard Dick, captain in ’21, has deserted baseball, and taken up his old work on the track again. Dick has short legs but he knows how to cover the ground and will be a valuable man for the half-mile. Gallaway,

DIAMOND OUTFIT ASSUMES POLISH OF INTENSIVE TRAINING

Buck Builds Formidable Nine From Host of Inauspicious Candidates.

WEALTH OF MOUNDSMEN

Wildcats Slated for Heaviest Schedule in Many Seasons.

Davidson College, the lair of the Wildcats, is all excited over the Red and Black baseball machine, 1923 model, which will make its initial appearance on the diamond next week against the Oak Ridge aggregation. The Presbyterian team is not expected to get very far this season under the load of the heaviest schedule arranged for a Red and Black nine in recent years. Possibly not, but Buck Currie has assembled a bunch of youngsters who are hustling to the limit of their endurance, and old Man Dope has been known to slip up on several occasions.

With three weeks’ training behind them the team has developed a great deal and will be in prime condition when Oak Ridge arrives next Friday. Coach Currie is an exponent of the peppy, hustling, brainy team that is filled with the old Wildcat fighting spirit. That is the type of team Davidson’s opponents may expect to meet this season.

The problem of finding players who can crown the horsehide on the trademark is the one that is worrying Boss Buck just now. If the high class hitting blossoms forth everything will be as sweet as the sugar in the bowl, but if it doesn’t—blooie for the Red and Black. The pitching staff is Coach Currie’s pride. Hunter, Boushee, and Sor-

(Continued on Page 7)

Basketball Captain

At a recent meeting of the basketball letter men, Nappy Davis, for three years a member of the Wildcat Quint, was elected captain for the season of 1924. Making his letter the first year at guard, Nappy played a great game on the floor and guarded his man like a leech. Last year, though kept out of several games, he showed up well, and this season has had to play the difficult position of center and guard and has been shifted to forward in several contests.

In addition to playing basketball for three years Nappy is a two-year letter man in football, making a great showing at end as a receiver of forward passes. He is always a fighter, and his election as captain insures the Wildcats a scrappy team next season.

(Continued on Page 5)