4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS........Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE........Managing Editor
LAKE........Assistant Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD........Associate Editor
J. B. PRICE........Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN........Associate Editor
W. F. CEPON........Athletic Editor
W. M. COX........Associate Editor
Peanut Parcher........Editor
O. J. ALLISON........Alumni Editor

Business Staff
W. R. BRIGGS........Advertising
K. S. McALPIN........Subscription
R. W. Oeland........Advertising
W. H. CROMWELL........Bookkeeper
E. S. LORV........Subscription
A. M. HURD........Service Department
J. M. GARRISON........Assistant

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
WALTHALL, D. B., Pres.
WATT McCAIN, Manager
WHARTON, D. B., Vice-Pres.
PATTON, J. H., Sec’y-Treas.
ALLISON, O. J.
APPLEBY, J. M.
SALL, McP. S.
STORY, P. J.
HOWIE, A. C.
WHITE, F. M.
EARNEST, J. R.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITORIAL

BLACK AND WHITE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY has earned the admiration of every college man in the South. Their refusal to participate in the regular scheduled game with Washington and Jefferson, because of the latter’s insistence on playing a negro in the varsity line-up, cost them a forfeiture, technically, according to the ruling of the referee. This action on the part of the Generals, although it may mean a momentary defeat in the transient season of 1923, is a laurel on the brows of the team from the Old Dominion. It is a victory in the fight the Southern colleges and universities are waging against race equality in intercollegiate athletics. Stand behind the Generals, college men of the South! They are taking a step which should be followed by every college in America. The Northern school has gone beneath the yoke, but it is still the privilege of the Southern teams to preserve their honor and self-respect. Southern athletes are white from head to foot, and it is impossible to believe that they will ever depart from that policy of excluding the blood of Africa from their ranks, to accept the Virginia school's forfeiture. They prefer to have the game entered on the pages of football history as a cancelled contest.

PENAL DRESS

The fool’s cap is the penalty for the unruly school boy; the striped jacket is the penalty for the criminal; the yellow fresh cap is the penalty for unappreciative freshmen who cannot adapt themselves to the regulations of a student body which has assumed a big-brothership over the new men. We would not place the yellow-capped freshman in the class of fools, or of criminals, but rather in a class of men who have no regard for necessary rule and regulation, and who believe the law of the school to be their own personal desire.

The upperclassmen of Davidson have resigned the use of the paddle in favor of a kindly spirit of brotherhood and friendship. The reception of the new class into the college life of Davidson has been described by a member of the faculty as being “the realization of a dream that has haunted him for years—a beautiful, fraternal fellowship between upperclassmen and freshmen.” The badge of yellow, prescribed by the Court of Control, to be worn as a headpiece by all members of the new class who do not live in conformity with the court’s ruling, is a badge of dishonor. It is an indication that the wearer is not in sympathy with the members of the upper classes in their attempt to revolutionize campus life with regard to the treatment of freshmen. Men of ’27, shun the “Scarlet Letter,” and show your loyalty to Davidson! Be fair with yourself and be fair with the campus!

In the columns of this issue of The Davidsonian will be found the personnel of the Board of Control, a body constituted by the student body to handle freshman regulation. Of all the organizations on the Hill, there is no body which has the interest of the college more at heart than the Court of Control. It is a working organization. Back them to the limit.

ON THE BAND

This institution is credited with having a band. The R. O. T. C. provides instruments for such an organization. We hear noises emanating from Shearer Hall periodically, seemingly made by an organization of the above-mentioned variety. Yet, when games are played on our athletic field; when a pep meeting is scheduled; when we want to give the team a good send-off; when we want to meet the team, the band, if it may be called such, evidently takes to the tall timber. There are only two conclusions to be drawn from this fact: either the man in charge hasn't backbone enough and leadership enough to get the men together, or else the band hasn't loyalty and spirit enough to assist their college when their services mean so much. “Pep.”

MORROW SUFFERS DISASTER

On last Tuesday afternoon G. M. Morrow, better known to his associates as “Guy,” wended his way to Shelton’s farm, and accepted a position with the manager of said industry as assistant hay-pitcher. As soon as Morrow had finished loading his first wagon, he drove his team of spirited steeds to the barn, and as he was backing his wagon up to the hay loft, the frame caught on an open door of the barn, sending him head first to the ground, right behind one of the horses’ number twelve and a half, which, by the way, did not happen to be made of leather. The horse, becoming frightened, stepped in Mr. Morrow’s face, causing serious injury. Attending physicians state that he will soon be in normal health.

PREJUDICE

“Reliable in News Service,” is one of the salient points advertised on the initial page of the Charlotte Observer. Students of Davidson College, and supporters of the Wildcats throughout the South, and we venture to say free thinkers in general, are beginning to wonder if this same policy of “reliability” has been drilled into Bailey Groome, of “One Man Opinion” fame, and conductor of the Observer sport department. Reliability to the nth degree is Groome, in one sense of the word, at least. We know that he will string the Chapel Hill Tar Heels from column one to column eight, and we can “rely” on his doing it every week; we can rely, also, on his suppression of everything that tends toward Wildcat praise. “One Man’s Opinion” on a one-horse sporting page! Duck shooting! Carolina! A stray local article! Tar Heels! Carolina! Now, you have read the Bailey Groome sport sheet!

Of the Davidson-V. P. I. game last Saturday, a contest which has as much significance in the race for state championship honors as any game participated in by North Carolina teams, Mr. Groome says nothing, and probably for the reason that it might reflect credit on the little Wildcat team. Of the P. C. game, two weeks ago, in Rock Hill, Mr. Groome made a few comments which were by no means recognized as graceful to an athletic page, and which would have been appropriate only as a grammar school essay on football. Mr. Groome, are you just out and out antagonistic to Davidson? Or, do you mean well, but just can’t arouse the necessary punch and pep which is required to edit a creditable sport sheet? Or is it your love for Carolina that dominates the page to the exclusion of live news concerning the Presbyterians?

The students of Davidson recognize the Charlotte Observer as one of the best dailies in the South, and they believe the paper friendly to the college, but it is hard to recognize the sporting section as a true Observer department. As a result of the attitude taken by the Observer sport scribes toward the Davidson football team this season, over one hundred Observer subscriptions were cancelled this week, in favor of the Charlotte News. The Davidsonians are not ungrateful for the frequent advance stories carried under local correspondents’ names. They appreciate this courtesy to the fullest. They can’t lose sight of the fact, however, that Observer sports writers snub the Wildcats on every occasion when a fair and unbiased report would mean glory for the team.

Can you tell us, Mr. Groome, why your prejudice toward the little Presbyterian College, the school which your home city has “adopted as a foster child” (using the words of a prominent...member of your Chamber of Commerce), is allowed to enter into your work of serving the people of the South as a ‘herald of news?

STATE CLUBS INAUGURATE NUMEROUS YEARLY FEEDS

Since the opening of the college, all state clubs have gotten together and mapped out their programs for the coming year. These clubs arouse much interest in the boys besides fostering better fellowship among the students from the several states. Every Southern state is represented in the student body, consequently most of these clubs are Southern clubs.

The most spectacular club is the famous Sandlapper bunch. This motley crowd is a very compact and unitary body of students. Under the able tutelage of J. Q. Smith, the club has forged to the front with characteristic energy. In the near future, they hope to hold a feed, where the South Carolinians will doubtless acquit themselves with honors.

The Virginians, also, are hustling in their efforts to secure new students from the Old Dominion, and the entire club is working splendidly. At present, the presidential position in the club is being hotly contested between A. Perrin Hudgins and D. Barclay Walthall, the Duke of Shenandoah, known to readers both in poetry and fiction.

The Alligators, from Florida, are assembling and their great enthusiasm for the home state is being spread abroad throughout the campus. They are doing much good to bring the college to the attention of boys in Florida.

R. R. Jones has assembled his cohorts from Texas, and although outnumbered, they have gone into the game and seem to be causing much excitement on the campus.

Open Forum Exchanges

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of the faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

I WAS WONDERING (Apologies to McAlpine)

About getting up early,
To see the team off
For V. P. I.
It was sort of hard,
But I remembered
The team had to get up,
Early too.
It was great,
To send them off
Amid yells and cheers.
But I somehow felt,
Down in my heart
That maybe
When odds were against
The Wildcats,
They thought of that crowd
Cheering, as they left,
So early in the morning;
And it made them drive
A lot harder,
For the honor
Of Old Davidson.
And now that it’s over
And the Wildcats fought so nobly,
I'm glad I got up
To see them off.
Are you?
—('26.)

THE AQUA NUISANCE

Fellows, why is it that passing along Dormitory Row we are continually bothered by the throwing of water? At no time, day or night, are we safe from this nuisance. The cause is due to thoughtlessness and carelessness on the part of a few individuals who are inconsiderate of the rights of the rest of the student body.

On the surface, the thing in itself seems harmless enough, but it causes ill feeling and damage to college property. Also, it is discourteous; sometimes ladies drive up in a car, hunting for someone. Then out from some window comes a bag of water. No one is hit, perhaps, but the throwing smacks of discourtesy. Ye water dispensers, be more thoughtful and careful and let us end this nuisance and damage to property and feelings as well.
XYZ—RM.

Bull-ettes

A NEW AMENDMENT:
The editor of a woman's college weekly paper decries the use of cosmetics, suggesting morning jaunts through bosky dells and sylvan forests as a substitute for the chemist’s make-up. So rare a display of common sense! So rare, even within the intellectual center of feminine editors! Maybe, when the United States accepts the terms of the eighteenth amendment and resigns itself to the observance of the same, a battle will be waged for the suppression of varnish and calcimine. One fair editor starts a worthy agitation, at least.

BLISSFUL:
When the professor asked what stable currency was, in Eco class the other day, and a bright boy answered, “The juice that makes the lights burn in the horse stall,” the bald head row joined in unison. A member of the hairless crew answered the next question by advising that the best time to float public bonds was at high tide. The entire class joined in the chorus.

EDGAR ALLAN DID IT TOO:
The poets of Davidson are reminded of the college bell as a subject upon which to air their verse. It is estimated that nine thousand poems were written last year on the ‘dear old college bell.’ You can’t be a college poet until you have written your bell poem.

Wait Till the Youth Grows Older

They sat upon the Senior Bench
(That is, just she and he)
He wore a Senior Stetson hat
She wore—I could not see.
He held his head up close to hers
(I think she liked it too)
I could not quite hear what was said
‘Don't ‘spose that it was new.
And as I watched I saw them kiss
(Of this I am quite sure)
Oh, Freshie, heed these words of mine
Fear love—it has no cure.
Just watch your step, leave girls alone
(Ask any Soph, he knows)
You'll find that you can’t learn and love;
That much the Senior knows.
—Ex.

A Man’s Prayer

Lord, if one boon alone be granted me,
Let me choose what that boon shall be;
I shall not ask to live 'mid sheltered bliss,
In soft security—but only this:
Let me be not a coward in the strife
That sweeps across the battlefields of life;
Let me leave not for other lives to bear
The burdens that were rightfully my share.
Let me not whine, nor ever shirk,
But cheerfully bear my full load of work.
Then, place a friendly shoulder ‘neath the load
Of one who, fainting, falls beside the road.
Let me, oh, Lord, be clean and unafraid;
Let me go forth to meet life, unafraid;
Until the final hour of life’s brief span,
Let me work upright—let me be a Man!
Thus, let me live; that when the day's work is done,
I pitch my tent toward the setting sun,
Lie down to rest, and from my labor cease,
My soul, within its home, shall be at peace.
—Ex.

Cleanly Spoken

The boy was at home at last. He had tried his luck out West in the mines for five years with little success. And now he was broke.
“John,” cried his old mother, seizing both hands in greeting, “you have hardly changed at all.”
“I know, mother,” he answered in tremulous tones, “but there ain’t no laundries out there."
—Swamp Angel.

How to Take Care of a Baby (Nineteen Years Old)

1. Too much attention cannot be paid to a girl of this age. Put this down as a cardinal principle.
2. Give her the air in the Stutz at least once a day. Cases of complete failure have occurred as a result of violating this rule.
3. Contrary to expectation, quiet and rest are the last things to be thought of. Say it with jazz.
4. Although filet mignon and mushrooms go over fairly well, most nourishment can be administered through a bottle. Statistics show that there are more bottle babies than any other kind.
5. Always approach the object of your devotion carefully; look around to make sure that no one else is in sight for whom she might possibly toss you flat; then advance firmly but with fear in your heart. Acquire a manner that is a cross between Rudolph Valentino and Mary Pickford. The cave man stuff is gone forever.
6. Remember, baby needs plenty of exercise. A dance, three times a week, is recommended. In dancing, wrap your arm three times around her waist, to keep the little dear from falling. If she looks pained—that's her worry.
7. Latest scientific investigation confirms our suspicion that cigarettes are actually a benefit to health and not a detriment, as some would have us believe. If your baby is not so hot on Tareytons, break her in gently on a pipe.
—Pitt Panther.

INTERESTING CONVERSATION:
I sho’ would hate to starve to death!
How come?
You'd get so hungry!

Freshman Logic

Prof.—"How much does a six-pound shell weigh?”
Frosh—"I don’t know.”
Prof.—"Well, what time does the twelve o'clock train leave?”
Frosh—"Twelve o'clock.”
Prof—"Then what is the weight of the six-pound shell?”
Frosh—"Twelve pounds.”
—Juggler.

A LYRIC POME:
Bandolines like the famous tower,
Shoestrings mud from the Jawn,
Curtails wiggle, hour by hour,
Wagon, wagon, wagon.