THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

FLAKE LAIRD

A most vital cog in the Wildcat basketball team this year is Flake Laird. In games to date, we find
that his playing shows the steady fight that counts so much with a real team like the Fighting Devils. He
has certainly made opponents look to their laurels during the present campaign. Flake comes from Decatur, Ga., the home of
many a loyal son of Davidson. He prepped at the University School for Boys, in Atlanta, where he gained fame
on gridiron, cage court, and diamond. Being selected for all-State and all-South Atlantic prep teams is indeed an honor, but
honors never affected Flake, for his playing was always characterized by fight and enthusiasm. Not content with being all-State fullback
in football and all-South Atlantic forward in basketball, Flake tackled baseball and came out a sure enough, matter-of-fact, pitcher and
infielder. Just as was expected, Red is living up to his reputation and great things are expected of him during
his college career.

D. COLLEGE MAGAZINE HAS SPECIAL NEW FEATURES

The inevitable has come to pass; at last it has come. The first semester issue of the Davidson College Magazine
has appeared. Its excellent short stories, its classic essays and its pregnant humor are nectar and ambrosia to the literary
magnets of the hill. It can be said in all truthfulness and with sound judgment that this issue is the
best that has been published since the advent of the members of the present student body. The size of the
pages has been reduced, while the number of pages has been increased. It has 44 pages, none of which are
advertising. It has a true literary appearance which the Davidson College Magazine has heretofore lacked. In the current issue of
the magazine there are seven poems, five stories, two essays and the usual editorials; exchanges, etc. The prose poems found
in this issue are a new type for the Davidson College Magazine. There are contributions by a number of students.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Entrance Next to United Cigar Store on Trade and Tryon

EQUIPMENT for EVERY SPORT
SPORTING GOODS
Basketball, Tennis, Baseball & goods. We sell the Spalding, Reach and Wright & Ditson goods. We have the exclusive agency
for A. G. Spalding & Bros. goods. Rackets Restrung by an Expert

ATHLETICS DIXIE DOPE
By W. F. GALAWAY

The past week was a busy one in North Carolina basketball circles with the continued victories of Carolina and Wake
Forest setting the pace for the other State teams. The Baptists were victorious in all three contests last week, though
none of them were walkaways; Guilford falling a victim, 32-22; the Wildcats going under by the foul line route, 29-24;
and N. C. State furnishing the entertainment in a corking weekend exhibition, 24-22. The three recent wins give Wake Forest
the count in 10 out of 12 collegiate games. As an anti-climax to a successful trip through North Carolina and
Virginia, the Trinity quint lost a second contest to Carolina at Chapel Hill, 34-30. On the Virginia trip six games
were won out of seven played. Davidson, Statesville Legion, V. P. I., Richmond, Lynchburg College and Lynchburg Elks coming out
on the short ends, while Virginia was the victor in a terrific battle by a three-point margin. The V. P.
I. contest that the Methodists won, 34-33, was one of the highlights of the trip. Davidson’s unlucky trip through the
State served to show the Wildcats all their weaknesses and get them tuned up for the games still to come.
The week was one of upsets in the South. Alabama, after winning 15 straight games, was defeated by Tech 39-35,
and by Birmingham A. C., 28-20. Tech, in turn, was beaten by Chattanooga, 41-29, showing conclusively that Chattanooga will be
a dangerous foe in the tournament. Georgia had a couple of off nights but managed to partly redeem themselves for
both mishaps. Auburn defeated the Bulldogs 45-16, but the next night Georgia journeyed to Atlanta and downed the A. A.
C. 34-30. Later in the week Mercer defeated Georgia 31-11, only to be nosed out the following night 29-28 in
a hair-raising game that almost ended in a riot. Mercer and Vanderbilt divided a couple of close ones and separated
with Mercer one point to the good on the exchange but not at all sure what will happen if they
meet Vandy again in Atlanta. The victories of the Birmingham Athletic Club over Auburn, Alabama, and Georgia Tech seem to
indicate that the Alabama City has ousted Atlanta of her claim of previous years to the best team in Dixie.
In South Carolina, Newberry is still on top of the head. After losing to Furman in a heart-breaking game and
barely defeating the rejuvenated Wofford Terriers in Spartanburg 19-18, the Indians turned around and ran away from Furman in a
return game 28-12, and the next night slaughtered P. C. 55-14. When the Newberry second team was sent in the
score was 36-2. South Carolina had a hard time in Virginia losing to W. and L. 26-19, and to V.
M. I. 24-9. W. and L. later defeated V. P. I. 29-28. The Takola quint, of Richmond, defeated the Lynchburg
Elks for the State non-collegiate championship.

MAT ENTHUSIASTS MEET TRINITY AND CAROLINA

Captain Cromartie, or conspicuously have been persistently at it and under the coaching of Harry Bangle, one-time professional wrestler, are
ready for opponents, weight and ability are: Lindamood, heavyweight class; Cromartie, 158-pound class; McMillan, 145-pound class; McFadden, 135-pound class; McConnell,
129-pound class and Selser, 119-pound class. The team has had several successful meets already this year, having defeated Carolina by
a good margin, and she is anxious to do better than beat Davidson by two points as she did last
year. Midget of Trinity is their mainstay. Lindamood will have a nice job on his hands when he steps on
the square with Midget. After meeting Trinity in Durham Wednesday night, the team meets Carolina at Chapel Hill Thursday night.
If the Trinity meet hasn’t cost too dearly, the Davidson group of grapplers should be able to handle Carolina the
next night. The slogan seems to be “Beat Trinity and have Carolina scared to defeat.” This year the mat aggregation
is unusually strong. All on the team, except Lindamood and Selser, held places on the team last year and showed
up well. Lindamood is believed, by all who have seen him work out, to be able to take care of
the man in his weight, and in view of the fact that he meets Poindexter at Carolina, last year’s State
champion, who he threw last summer, success is predicted for him. Cromartie, though working in a weight above that in
which he wrestled last year, shows lots of improvement and can be expected to continue his job. After the Trinity
and Carolina contests theWrestling team meets Virginia at Lexington on March 9.

SCRUBS WIN DECISIVE

Last Thursday night on the gym floor, the scrubs proved themselves as capable material, trouncing the Charlotte “Y” employed boys
to the tune of 47 to 17. From the very start, there was no doubt as to the outcome of
the fracas, but the Charlotte boys were always scrapping and showed that they were out to put forth their best.
In the first few minutes, the scrubs slipped away and gained a commanding lead which they held throughout. Passing and
shooting were of a high order, and the small crowd that witnessed the encounter was treated to some real basketball.
However, toward the final stages, there was a letting down on the locals' part that slowed things up considerably. It
would be hard to pick a single man who excelled for the locals. DeArmon played a good steady game at
guard, and Mitchell had an exceptionally good eye for the basket, garnering enough baskets to make him high point man.
Teamwork is the thing that counts, and teamwork it was that did count in the end. The high point man
for the losers was Hunter. He caged several beauties from the foul mark.

It is rumored that several games are scheduled for the scrubs, and they are expected to keep pace with the
varsity and run up some victories. The line-up and score follow:

Davidson Scrubs

Subs — Sappenfield, Parker, Anderson.

Under the leadership of the Little General, Davidson’s wrestling team left on Wednesday, February 21, for meets with Trinity and
Carolina. These matmen, though working rather in- wearing, just notice this: If they fit well at just three spots—the heel,
the instep, and the toes—they will not look old for a long time. If they do not fit well there,
they will break down and look old in a short time. Try Hendrix Shoes next time. See how well they
fit and how long they last.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
“THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES”
GREENSBORO, N. C.

PROMINENT STUDENTS TAKE DEFINITE STEP

1. And it did come to pass that in the second month, even near unto the fifteenth day, that the
scions of the Hebrew nation did call a conclave of the forefathers.
2. And behold, it is written, there did present themselves at the gate of the city even a goodly number
of Gentiles, seeking admission into the sanctuary of the Jewish nation.
3. Whereupon the forefathers did order the gates unloosed and the strangers be invited to reside within in order that
their mission might be made known unto the twelve tribes.
4. And the spokesman said unto them: Behold, we do come unto thee seeking admission into thy club.
5. For, lo, these many days have we heard the passer-by praise from the housetops the likely benefits of your
tribe.
6. And the chief scribes and the patriarchs did gather together and meditate what should be done concerning these men
of the Gentiles.
7. Whereupon the chief scribe spoke unto the spokesman and said: Yea, verily, for the sum of ten pieces of
silver will thy admission be considered.
8. And the Gentiles did receive the tidings with great joy and throwing of dust into the air, for they
were jubilant. And it came to pass that they did pay the silver with great thanksgiving and praise.
9. Hail, cried they, we are of the tribe of Hebrews. And they that were admitted did write their names
in the sand, the same being Not Reckless Currie, and Hip Movement Morris.
10. And Rivers End Sydenstricker, and Jaw Breaker McCallum, and Great Bull Sorrells, and Gadabout Much Hodgin, and many others
of the Gentiles. And they did praise the Hebrews. Selah!

On Thursday night and also on Monday night, Frank Toney has plans for a motion picture. Baseball games will be
played on Friday and Saturday afternoons with Oak Ridge. These games usher in the 1923 season for the Davidson nine.
The Dramatic Club is planning some entertainment for Friday night, and on Saturday night, the junior class will have an
entertainment at the gym. On Friday morning, the speaking proper will be held in Shearer Hall. This is a mere
tentative program, but the committee has been putting forth a great deal of effort and time to make the speaking
a success. They urge everyone who possibly can to stay on the hill and promise each one that does so
a good time. Also, everyone is urged to invite a girl for the occasion. The girls really “make or break”
the speaking’s success after all. If everyone will only cooperate with the committee, the event this year will be bigger
and better than ever before.

PLANS SLIGHTLY REARRANGED

If plans being formulated by the class work out as hoped for, this commencement will be one of the best
Davidson has ever had. Instead of the literary societies having their program on Monday night, as previously announced, Monday’s program
will consist of class day exercises, conducted by seniors, beginning at 5:30 Monday afternoon. A play by the Dramatic Club
will be the main feature of Monday evening. Beginning Tuesday morning at 9:30, the trustee’s annual meeting will be held,
with the annual literary address coming at 12:15 p.m. It is hoped that the Hon. W. J. Bryan will be
able to accept the invitation extended to him by the senior class; however, no definite answer has been received as
yet. The alumni luncheon will come at 1:30, as previously planned. At 5:30 p.m., the faculty will give their reception.
Perhaps the best social feature of the entire week will come Tuesday night, beginning with the annual exercises of the
literary societies and closing with a lawn reception, given jointly by the societies and senior class. This is an entirely
new arrangement and from all indications will be the crowning social event of commencement week. The graduating exercises will come
Wednesday morning as planned. The seniors are doing all in their power to give Davidson one of the best commencements
it has ever experienced. A detailed program will appear in The Davidsonian at a later date.

She—You raised your hat to that girl who passed. You don’t even know her.
He—No, but my brother does and this is his hat.

The Young Man's Shop

We suggest Collar Attached Shirts for comfort and durability. Madras Stripe and White are the spicy leaders.
