THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

Left Halfback
Nesbitt

Right Halfback
Brand

Fullback
Arnold

Quarterback
Northland

Referee: Jacobson (Lehigh); Umpire: Beauties

The Hit of the Season

— NEXT WEEK —
University Trio
Direct From The Keith Circuit
MATINEE DAILY: NIGHT 7:30--9

SHOE REPAIRING
Work Guaranteed
Collected every Monday
Prompt Delivery
Prices Reasonable
E. A. FRY
A. C. RAY, Rep.

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It

BARBER SHOP
The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
—— CLEANING AND PRESSING ——
Old P. O. Building

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Some mighty funny things happened in Rock Hill on the day of the P. C. game. One of these was the game. It doesn’t matter about the rest.

Talking to the Winthrop girls at the P. C. game reminded us of a slot machine—you had to drop a coin in their hands before they would open their mouths. We wonder if they were selling sandwiches for a “knicker fund,” or some other such worthy cause?

P. C. Henderson was one of the most popular onlookers at the P. C. game—but why shouldn't he be with such a famous brace of initials?

Ignorance Is Bliss
We will admit that we are ignorant, but how could we be expected to know that last Friday was “Paint-Up Day” at Winthrop?

“Biddy” Curtis sure stood in with the Winthrop chickens—that is, until he refused to spend his shekels for their wares, and then they gave him the icy stare. Love's labor lost.

Fresh—We had a fairly good crowd of girls yelling for us at the P. C. game.
Soph—Yes, real fair.

Howdy—Say, what does Ted Jones sing in the Glee Club?
Do—Oh, he is a utility man.

Our latest definition of a dumb-bell—A guy that sits up all night because his pajamas are still down at the laundry. (See Mason Field for particulars).

Dope Matheson started a train of thought in his mind the other day but the engine broke down before he could accomplish anything.

The inhabitants of the Barracks wish to express through these columns their deep appreciation to the authorities for attaching the new wooden braces to the tank to insure against its departure from upright principles.

A recent improvement to the native habitat of “Nicky” McAlpine was the addition of a sawdust pile on the left side of the railroad track to match the one on the right side. Besides adding to the symmetry of the business district of the town (?) it also enables passengers to jump off from either side of the train.

A certain Freshman asked us the other day when he was to be initiated into the student body—the ultimate in pure boobery.

Vic Brown made so much money in his clothing business last week that he was heard consulting with a certain professor the other day as to which stocks and bonds would be safe ones for him to buy.

A girl is often pretty nice. But we wonder why it is that so often if she’s nice she’s not pretty, and if she’s pretty she’s not nice?

All Together Gang!
The Parcher, after much labor, succeeded in composing the following new yell:
H—O—R—S—E—S
Ray! Ray! Ray! Neck!

Fresh—You look hard-boiled this morning.
Maxwell—Yeh, I slept in a tea-kettle last night.

Parcher Definitions
Home is where all the money comes from.

Ain’t It the Truth?
‘Sfunny how these girls that say they wouldn’t marry the best man in the world always keep their word.

Dr. McConnell—Who were the parties to the Crimean War?
Gracey—The Crooks and the Detectives.

Jim—What does Fresh Love sing in the Glee Club?
Al—He ought to sing bass.
Jim—Why?
Al—Because he is such a low-down fellow.

FOUND—One stray cat loitering about Shearer Hall the morning after the Glee Club practice. (We reckon he got lost trying to find his mate).

Ignorance—Why do they call a dogwood tree?
Bliss—Because it has a bark.
Ignorance—Then can you tell me why an old biscuit reminds one of an aged dog?
Bliss—No.
Ignorance—Because it is covered with bites.

Senior—Say, Fresh, do you know Sam Jones?
Fresh—No, sir. What's his name?
Senior—Who?

KITTENS COPY VARSITY IN LAST MINUTE WIN
Shelton Crosses Charlotte's Goal Line in Final Period

Coach Rawson's Wildkittens opened their football season Saturday with the heavy Charlotte High School team, at Independence Park, in the Queen City. Like the Varsity, the kittens won their game in the final few minutes of the last quarter when a forward pass from Sapp to Shelton was perfectly completed, resulting in a 6 to 0 score.The teams were evenly matched, the Freshmen making six first downs while the Charlotte boys made seven. Forward passes gave the Wildkittens four of their first downs. Punts were exchanged many times during the game, sometimes for gain and again for loss. Charlotte High won the toss and chose to defend the east goal. After the kick-off, Coach Rawson’s boys held them for downs. The teams ran up and down the field, and it seemed almost an impossibility for either to be successful in their attempts to score.

Line plunging and passes were used to a great extent. Some pretty football was displayed and for a time it looked as though the result would be a scoreless tie. For three quarters the tally was 0 to 0, but in the last six minutes of the final quarter, after punts were exchanged, Shelton crossed the goal with a pass from Sapp. Hewlet failed to perfect the drop kick for the extra point and the score was 6 to 0. The few minutes left soon passed with the Wildkittens in Charlotte High’s territory at the finish.

The game was featured by the playing of Sapp at full, and Shelton, who made the touchdown that spelled victory for Davidson. The work of Christian at right guard deserved credit. His steady work at that post and his many tackles enabled the Wildkittens to hold Charlotte for downs several times. The line-up of the two teams follows:

Watt McCain announces as his latest composition a little ditty entitled, “Her Maw Named Her Petroleum Because She Was So Refined.”

Fresh Ham—E heard that Hilthouse traveled over the mountains of Kentucky this summer by mule-back.
Fresh Glenn—Yeah, that’s quite evident. Just look at the daylight between his knees.

Charlotte (0) Position Davidson (6)
Osborne Left End Shelton
Yonan Left Tackle Varadow
McNinch Left Guard Green
Schwartz Center McConnell
Schiltz Right Guard Christian
Saunders Right Tackle Lincoln
Battier Right End Elton

Time keepers: Faison (Davidson); head linesman: Ward; Faul and Latham; time of periods: 12 minutes each. Touchdown: Shelton. Score by periods: Charlotte 0 0 0 0—0, Davidson 0 0 0 6—6.

VARIED PROGRAM ASSURED (Continued from page 1)
The noon will attract many to the college. Fraternities will keep open house during the evening after the program.

EFFICIENT SYSTEM INSTALLED AT LIBRARY
This year an entirely new system of keeping records of books taken out from the library has been installed. Heretofore when a student obtained a book he was given a page in a ledger in which the name of the book and necessary data concerning it was written down. This system necessitated a great deal of work at the end of the year on the part of the librarian and it was very inefficient, there being no way to tell how many books had been lost until the final checking-up at the end of the year. However, the system inaugurated this year is going to liberate the librarian from a great deal of work and will enable her to accurately check up each day on every book that is overdue. When a student obtains a book it takes a little more of his time, but it is believed that he will not mind this when he considers how much he is aiding the library and sometimes himself, when he might forget to return a book and will find a sum charged against him. Each student fills out a card for each book taken out. On the card is his name, date, name of the book, its author and the number. In the back of the book he is taking out is a form on which is stamped the date the book is to be returned, and this date is also recorded on his card, which is then indexed on the date of expiration. At the end of this time a check-up is easily obtained.

Send in Your Subscriptions to The Davidsonian Now! Read the Charlotte Observer and keep up with the world’s news. Let us give you rates for subscriptions or renewals.

ELKINS and McALPIN

WRIGLEY'S
Take it home to the kids. Have a packet in your pocket for an ever-ready treat. A delicious confection and an aid to the teeth, appetite, digestion.

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

Vicks
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

OCT. 9th OXFORD SINGING CLASS SHEARER HALL
Space Donated By WHITE DRUG CO. 8 P. M.

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.