8 THE DAVIDSONIAN... NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Governor Morrison Addresses Service With Appeals To Aid Weak

Large Body of Students Hear Challenge to All Educated Men to Be of Service to Others

Governor Cameron Morrison, addressing the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service Sunday evening, issued a challenge to his hearers that they use their strength gained through education for the help of the less fortunate of the world.

“What are you going to do with your education when you have acquired it?” asked the Governor in opening. “It will take some time, and careful and prayerful consideration to decide what you shall do with your increased powers.

“If you use your strength, your powers, for the uplift of the weak. In this land of freedom we want no character of aristocracy, but a pure democracy. Use your strength, as did the knights of old, in helping the less fortunate than yourselves.

“One of the finest traits of character, a trait which differentiates the Christian religion from the other religions of the world, is to love the less fortunate, the weaker, than ourselves.

“I fight for education,” continued the chief of the Old North State, “in order that those who become educated may help the others who are less fortunate. If you use your strength acquired through education in the right channels, for the uplift of the weak, you will do a great service to your day and generation, to your country and to your God.

“The best use you can make of your education, if you would use it for the help of the weak, is to spread abroad the spirit of Christianity. There are other subsidiary methods, but above all is the spirit of Christ. Christ teaches reverence, love and help for the weak.

“But you can use your powers to hurt humanity. The educated crook, the criminal with an education, is the worst criminal, the worst enemy of the state. Sometimes education causes us to scorn our less fortunate brothers. It causes us to assume false pride, and to forget the weak. The highest duty of the educated man is to use his strength for the uplift of the weak.

Town News

With Our Opponents

Misses Sarah and Martha Hamilton, students of North Carolina College for Women, spent the week-end with their parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Hamilton.

Miss Grace James, who is now teaching English in Rosenow, N. C., spent last week with her aunt, Miss Kate Douglas.

Mr. and Mrs. Douglas Brown were the guests this week of Mrs. Brady, Mrs. Brown’s mother.

Mrs. Whittaker, Miss Mary Dodson, and Dr. C. R. Harding motored to Lenoir and Blowing Rock last week.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson spent last week-end in Charlotte.

Mrs. Frank Hall, of Statesville, spent several days last week with her sister, Mrs. Vinson.

Circle number two of the Woman's Auxiliary had an all-day quilting-party at the home of Mrs. J. C. Black last Thursday. Eighteen members were present.

Mr. James Black, of Baden, N. C., spent Sunday with his mother, Mrs. J. C. Black.

Although Saturday completely squashed football dope among the “Big Ten” there was not a single upset witnessed among the have-been or would-be opponents of Davidson. Surely, many prejudiced boosters bet on the Tar Heels against the Flying Cadets but there is little doubt that no reliable prophet was surprised at her defeat.

Elon nosed out little Guilford 7-0. This marked Elon’s first victory over any of the North Carolina “Inner-team,” and also her first score against any of the above named. No one was surprised that State lost to Virginia Tech. V. P. I. has a team which, strong in the beginning, is apparently getting better each week. What does it mean when the following scores are noted: Penn State 16; N.C. State, 0. N.C. State, 0; V. P. I. 16?

Furman won another overwhelming victory—over South Carolina this time. The Purple Hurricane has left a clean trail in both the Carolinas and Virginia, having vanquished some of the best teams in the three.

Plucky little Citadel rested up Saturday.

One of the serious troubles that confronts both church and individual today is that Christ’s example in performing certain duties, such as caring for the poor and the distressed, is not being followed by the church as well as by some other organizations such as the Masons. Christians have been fed so much on the Bread of Life that they pay little heed to it, while millions in heathen lands are starving daily for it.

ONE MORE BOY KILLED IN FOOTBALL ACCIDENT

The many friends of H. G. Goodykoontz, student at Davidson, deeply regret to learn of the death of a younger brother, which occurred at Bluefield, W. Va., last Saturday as a result of an injury received in a game of football that afternoon. No details are available in regard to the nature of his injuries. As soon as Goodykoontz received the message Saturday, informing him of his brother's injuries he left for home, a later message telling of the young boy's death. The sympathy of the entire student body is extended to one of its members in his sad bereavement.

VARIOUS SUNDAY SCHOOLS

The religion of Christ is the acme of all religions. We cannot improve our religion, but we can increase our methods; our use of the religion of Christ.

“Our government, in its great basic principles, cannot be beat, despite the attacks brought upon it by radical dreamers. Our laws may be amended, but the principles of American government cannot be improved upon.

Uphold with our lives, exhorted Governor Morrison, “the great principles of a free and democratic government, along with the teachings of the Man of Galilee. Christ's purpose is to save the lost, to mend the broken, to strengthen the strong. So it is our duty to make people happy and more efficient as the years go by.”

In his concluding words, the Governor spoke of the industrial greatness of America, pointing out that the greatest glory of our nation lies in helping to make people happy and more efficient as the years go by.

FEEDS? SEE W. B. BARNETTE AND CO.

We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE

Visit Geo. C. Goodman & Co.
Druggists
Soda
Candy
Cigars
Cigarettes
Student Supplies

For High Class PRINTING of every description + “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
SODA
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS
AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

The entertainment of the afternoon was rook. Mrs. Ellis made the highest score. Two guests were present, Mrs. J. M. Blue and Mrs. Lloyd Christenbury. Mints were served during the game, and the refreshments which came afterwards consisted of ambrosia and cake. Mrs. Hengeveld’s house was very attractively decorated with chrysanthemums. Four new members have recently been received into the club. They are: Mrs. Dendy, Mrs. Mebane, Mrs. Dusenberry and Mrs. Walter Henderson.he , VU. rn , Laat re elas at cal Mr. and Mrs. Mebane entertained Mr. and Mrs. Fred W. Hengeveld, at dinner Thursday night at their apartment. Four hundred and twenty-five students and friends attended the services, and all went away deeply impressed. Mrs. Fred W. Hengeveld entertained the Young Matrons’ Club last Friday afternoon in Miss Bona Potts’ house. Purdy was pianist, and some members of the band were present to add to the music of the occasion. Miss Catherine Gillis, of Statesville, N.C., has been visiting Miss Jane Leyton. Ted Jones introduced Dr. J. M. McConnell, who introduced the speaker of the evening. Rev. R. Brown, formerly a member of the Board of Trustees, spent the week-end in Davidson at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Hengeveld.

Prof. A. Currie will make a speech to the Rotary Club in Salisbury, next Tuesday, November 13th. The Book Lovers’ Club will meet next Friday afternoon, November 16th, with Miss Julia Johnston. The work at the “Y” Sunday Schools was encouraging last Sunday. It was an ideal day and the attendance was good. However, many of the regular student teachers were unable to go out. Some were away for the weekend and others were off at different locations on deputations. Miss Lera Hobbs, of Mitchell College, spent last Monday, November 12th at home. Her guests for the day were Misses Rubye Goode, Lois Scroggs, Thelma Fraley, and Mrs. Tomlin, of Statesville, N.C.

The regular meeting of the Thelemite Club was held at the home of Prof. J. L. Douglas, Friday evening, November 9th. Dr. J. M. McConnell spoke on “Great Moments in History.” The Hon. J. Stith Wilson, who was the guest of the evening, made an interesting short talk.

There were six students who attended Shearer. This was exactly enough for the classes, since six of the classes at Shearer are taught by students. A new class of boys has been organized with J. W. Crinkley as teacher. Wade Allison was the only one who was able to go to Cornelius last Sunday. There was a good attendance. There were a large number present at the mill chapel. All of the students who have been going were present. The attendance was 35. No one went from Davidson to the Chapel because there was no conveyance. Mrs. Gill, of Statesville, spent the weekend in Davidson at the home of Mrs. Paisley.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS OUT FIVE DEPUTATIONS

Five deputations were sent out during the past weekend. J. M. Carr and A. C. Wildman went to Loray, N.C., to fill Rev. Mr. Cathey’s pulpit, who was absent conducting another meeting. They spoke in the morning at Clio church, and in the afternoon and at night to the Concord (Iredell) church. The chief topic was consecration. P. B. Freeland and A. M. Martin composed the deputation sent to Gastonia. They spoke to the Christian Endeavor Societies and at the night service in the First Presbyterian church. On Monday morning they addressed the High School students. Other deputations sent out were: Stewart to Shearer church and Matheson and Morrison to the Prospect and Center churches. All report large congregations and excellent attention. Vic Brown led the singing, Wallace Richards.

A hectic struggle marked the contest between Carolina and V. M. I., the same proving a death blow to Carolina's ambition for another undefeated year in the South. The Flying Cadets won 9-0. Carolina's other two defeats were administered by Yale and Maryland. However, she is still supreme in the Old North State where she has not lost a game in over three years. She has already scalped two of Davidson's conquerors, Wake Forest and State. All the prophets say that Davidson's chances next Saturday are nil. But, may they not be false prophets?

College men like to do things on the run! Burhoge’s Blue Devils fell before Garrity’s Deacon Demons from Wake Forest, to the decisive score of 16-6. Greason, by his stellar playing, cinched a place on the all-State eleven. A comparative resume of Trinity’s record in North Carolina is perplexing, rather than satisfactory. She smothered both Guilford and Elon, but herself succumbed to both Carolina and Wake Forest by close scores. What does this spell: Trinity, 6; Wake Forest, 16—Wake Forest, 6; Davidson 0?

We are ready at a moment's notice. Everything at this store is needed ---smart and correct Fall suits, overcoats, shoes, oxfords, hats and furnishings. MELLON’S 8-10. West Trade Street CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Not much time to do their shopping--- There’s where we shine!

The fate of the Wildcats lies in their only two remaining games, Carolina and Trinity. Shall it be fourth or fifth place? Beware of false prophets.

DOCTOR CURRIE TEACHES SUNDAY SCHOOL CLASS

The College Sunday School class has recently secured for its teacher Prof. Archie Currie, one of the best-liked men on the Faculty and a man whom all of the college students will enjoy as their Sunday School teacher. Professor Currie’s class on November 11th was attended by at least a dozen college students all of whom enjoyed his talk on some of the Missionary Teachings of the Psalms. Professor Currie, in beginning, said that usually one fault of the teacher is in trying to stress or handle too many points in the lesson at one time, whereas if one point was stressed fully much more could be gotten from the lesson by both teacher and pupil. Professor Currie’s main point on the lesson was that the Church of Jesus Christ has not been functioning as Christ would have it function, nor as the leaders of the Church think that it should be doing. He showed that in connection with the Church, as well as with the individual, the proper valuation and true emphasis on certain things is one of the most important aspects.

Yes, we have good things to eat. The Misses Schofield Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office NORTON 9 BARBER SHOP Always Something Good to Eat NEW YORK CAFE DAVIDSON CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.

Leaves Statesville
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver