THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

ALUMNI NEWS

Rev. H. F. Beaty, '03, has accepted a call to the Cuban Mission in Ybor City, Tampa, Fla. Mr. Beaty
left Atkinson, N. C., where he was pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, during the holidays to take charge of
his new work the first of the year. Mr. Beaty was formerly a missionary to Cuba, being located at Placatus,
so he should be especially fitted for this new form of work.

Here and There

W. R. McCuen, ex-’23, is studying foreign banking in Poughkeepsie, N. Y.
H. A. Avery is living in Gastonia, N. C.
Locke White is with the Southern Presbyterian Mission in Nanking, China.
R. C. Drake, Jr., ex-'23, is working in Rocky Mount, N. C.
J. E. Cassell, '20, a former baseball star, and also a former editor of the Davidsonian, is principal of the
Lenoir High School. His school has just moved into the most modern and best-equipped building in the State. Some idea
of the size of the new building may be gained by the fact that the stage of the auditorium is
large enough to play basketball on, and it has been so designed that this is possible, using the auditorium as
the stadium. There are dressing rooms under the stage which are supplied with all modern showers and dressing-room equipment. The
entire building is of fire-proof construction and the plan is so designed that additional sections may be added to keep
pace with the growth of the school, without spoiling the design. Mr. Cassell is coaching the athletic teams of the
High School during his spare time.
John M. Black, '18, Greenville; L. A. Wilkinson, ’13, Charlotte, and J. P. Grey, Culamee, were on the campus attending
the alumni athletic council, Saturday.
W. H. Mills, '92, president of Clemson (S. C.) College, was on the campus last week.
A. R. Christenbury, '17, fielder on the Boston National League Baseball Club, is spending a few months of the winter
with his parents, Dr. and Mrs. J. R. Christenbury. He is receiving congratulations from his friends in regard to his
recent marriage.
Rev. T. K. Currie, '04, superintendent of Sunday School work in the Synod of Virginia, was visiting his mother last
week.
J. W. Currie, '03, lawyer at Raeford, N. C., was visiting in Davidson during the past few days.
Rev. J. L. Fowle, ’18, has been conducting a week’s meeting at Brawley’s schoolhouse near Mooresville. Doctor Fowle is remembered
by the older members of the student body for the visit made by him and Mr. Summerville year before last.
Mr. Fowle is now engaged in evangelistic work in Virginia.
Rev. J. W. Brown, ’12, is now located at 30 Boulevard Lascar Catargin, Buscaret, Romania, in the service of the
American Y. M.C. A.
Mr. Clifton Murphy, ’13, is practicing law in New York City, and is making his home at 43 Exchange Place.
Mr. H. M. Spann, ’20, of football fame, is with the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, with headquarters in Washington,
N. C.
Woodrow Clarke, ’16, was on the Hill last week.

Thomas J. Fetzer

Following an illness of several weeks, Thomas J. Fetzer, ’79, died at his home in Wadesboro on December 31, 1922.
He had been ill in the Presbyterian hospital of New York City for a month before going to Wadesboro. Mr.
Fetzer was a well-known business man, having held large interests in New York and other northern points. The deceased was
a native of Concord, North Carolina, moving later to Wadesboro, where he resided for many years. He was a man
of an exceptionally high type of character, a Southern gentleman of the old regime, whose friends were numbered by thousands
throughout the South and whose business career was highly regarded by his associates. He was an elder in the First
Presbyterian Church of Wadesboro. Mr. Fetzer is survived by his wife, two sons, Messrs. F. F. and F. G. Fetzer,
and three daughters, Mrs. James H. Clark, Mrs. Fred Mills, of Wadesboro, and Miss Dorothy Fetzer, also of Wadesboro. Interment
was made at Eastview cemetery, Wadesboro. Officiating were Rev. John Jordan Douglas, pastor of the deceased, Rev. C. L. Jackson,
D. D., and Rev. W. R. Shelton, assisting.

Mr. Willis R. Booth, ex-’22, was married Saturday, December 31st, to Miss Marguerite Dunlivy, of Henryville, Ind. They will make
their home in Louisville, Ky., where Mr. Booth is attending the Louisville Presbyterian Theological Seminary.
Invitations have been received to the wedding of James Ralph Dunn, ’15, to Miss Nash, of Sumter, S. C. Miss
Nash is the sister of Shepherd Nash, ’15.
A wedding of much interest among Davidson students and citizens alike, was that of Mr. Walter S. Henderson, class of
1912, of Davidson, and Miss Florence Murphy, of Atkinson, N. C., which took place in the Presbyterian Church of Atkinson,
December 28, at 5:30 p. m. The ceremony was performed by Rev. H. F. Beaty, pastor of the bride, and
Rev. W. P. M. Currie, of Wallace. Miss Murphy is a member of an old family in the Cape Fear
section of eastern North Carolina. Her father, John A. Murphy, is one of the most influential citizens and progressive farmers
of Pender county. She was educated at Queens College, Charlotte, where she specialized in music and expression. Mr. Henderson has
lived in Davidson practically his entire life. He was graduated from Davidson with the class of 1912. Returning to this
city after the war, he has since been engaged in the jewelry business.
Handsome engraved announcements reading as follows, have been received in the city:
Mr. and Mrs. D. M. Balsam announce the marriage of their daughter Ruth Alphonsine to Mr. Joseph Reece Morton on
Friday, twenty-ninth of December nineteen hundred and twenty-two Brooklyn, New York.
Mr. Morton finished at Davidson with the class of 1920 and was well known among the students. The bride and
groom are making their home in Greensboro, where Mr. Morton is engaged in business.

COMMENTARIES FROM “ETIHW,” THE PROPHET

1—Now it came to pass in the days of Samuel Davis, the king, in the time of the latter rains,
that Paul surnamed Freeland, of the house of Georgia, of the family of the first floor, sojourned in the land
of the Bartacks, and tarried long in the house of Paul the son of Patter and bulled with him.
2—When the night was far spent, and the bullfight was daggone near over, Paul whose surname was Freeland wotting that
there was naught more to expect, seeing as no meat had been set before him, nor any oil poured upon
his head.
3—Neither had dancing damsels with timbrel and sackbut been called in to cheer him, arose and fell upon the neck
of Paul the son of Patter, and wept hard upon his neck and kissed him, and took his departure with
him.
4—And when Paul the Patterson saw that the other Paul was completely departed, he fell upon his knees and praised
the saints, giving thanks that his life had once again been spared, and layed himself down in pajamas to sleep.
5—Then there cried unto him Bosche, the industrious, saying,
6—Surely the enemy hath been delivered into our hands, for there is a man without in the snare, who hath
even fallen into the entrenchment prepared for the iniquitous, the deadfall with grievous furnace pipes in the midst thereof.

What’s Doing

THURSDAY
7 p. m.—Eumanean Society.
7 p.m.—Phi Society.

SATURDAY
7:15 p.m.—Movie, “Kick In,” featuring Bert Lytell, Betty Compson, and May McAvoy.

SUNDAY
10 a.m.—Union Band meeting.
11 a.m.—Church services.
1:15 p.m.—C. E. Training class.
3:30 p.m.—Sunday school.
6:15 p.m.—Vesper service.

TUESDAY
6:45 p.m.—Metrophilian Society.
7 p.m.—Pandemic Society.

WEDNESDAY
7 p.m.—Eu Freshman Society.
9 p.m.—Bible classes.

7—And even as he spake, there was heard from without a piteous cry for succor so that though they were
mighty men, and of great valor, yet the hearts of them both were inclined toward their enemy.
8—And they forsook the weapons which they had taken up, even the habergeons and mavericks which were in their hands,
and hastened to save him.
9—Now when they saw that it was Freeland who had fallen into the pit, because of the great mud, and
the darkness, and because of his ignorance, they were astonished by the space of six minutes.
10—Then were their spirits troubled and they gat themselves grappling irons and flesh hooks, and having undergirded him with helps,
they hoisted him from out the pit of destruction and nourished him.
11—Paul whose surname was Freeland, however, suffered much from hydrophobia and indigestion of the brain for many minutes, for he
had scorched his fingernails severely, and had sat him down with violence from a great height.
12—Nevertheless, when his ghost was restored to him, he vowed a great vow, that because he had been delivered with
so great deliverance, after having bulled in the room of one who had desired to study, that for conscience sake,
he would eat nothing save food, drink nothing save liquid, till such time as she should see fit.
13—Now again, in the time of the latter rains, in the time of the same durn king, about the space
of half an hour after that Paul had been rescued, Mebane the Scatterbrain, likewise came to grief.
14—In the late watches of the night Mebane strove with the spirit of distraction and prevailed not against it, so
that he was constrained to stray abroad upon the face of the campus.
15—Moreover the elements yet battled one with the other, so that Mebane was befuzzled as to the way, and erred
from the straight and narrow path.
16—When Mebane therefore, arrived at the crossing of the ditch, even the self-same ditch that had caused Paul whose surname
is Freeland, to condescend to things of low estate, as he essayed to cross to the side opposite him, which
lieth over against the hither bank, he fell from that which extended across the ditch eastward, and brast his shinbone
upon the pipes.
17—Great was the wrath of Mebane then, and he strove mightily to exude from the pit, but the sides were
steep and he could not. And the pipes were hot.
18—Mebane therefore was filled with exceeding great wrath, and cried aloud and cut himself with stones, and cast earth into
the air, yet was not his wrath abated.
19—Then he plucked great gobs of mud from the sides of the pit, and brake them in pieces, and cursed
them, and reviled them, and stamped the residue with the feet of him and so he came toward home.
20—Mebane verily gat himself out of the pit with violence, but of his shin he left much therein, and in
the morning moreover, of the fragments they gathered up twelve baskets full.

On the Square
Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

CHRISTMAS MIGRATIONS HASTENED BY FLU

In the second year of the reign of Warren, son of Harding, the king, there was a college in the
country of the North Carolinians, which was called Davidson. And lo in those days the High Priest called together the
Judges, which numbered twenty and four, who after much chewing of the rag, did issue a decree that the twentieth
day of the twelfth month should be declared throughout all the realm, to every nation and every tongue, as the
beginning of the Feast of Christmas. It was also decreed that no person, male or female, should journey forth until
the day appointed.

Now it happened that in that twelfth month that there was a great flood over all the land so that
there arose a great pestilence which caused the people of the land to cough and to sneeze. Yea, verily, the
people did even cough in chapel, during the second hour of the day, where they were come together to hear
the reading of the law. It came to pass in those days that the pestilence waxed so great that many
were wont to procure hot water from one, a Greek of Athens. Now the hot water did cause the temperature
of those persons to rise so that the Learned One, of much experience, fearing the spread of the plague did
send them to their homes in great haste. Yea, indeed, one John, surnamed Simpson, a man of no mean ability,
did become so sorely afflicted that he did depart in his fiery chariot for the city of four hours' journey.

Certain ones of the tribe of Wildcats, numbering twenty and two, who were exceedingly unfortunate during these days were compelled
to remain until the appointed time. And there was an inhabitant of the town, an Ethiopian called Enoch. Now Enoch
was a great man among his people. Enoch arose early in the morning and said to his son, Hoojohn, “Son,
my days are many and I have worked hard all the days of my life. While the inhabitants of the
tents, Barracks, East, West, Georgia, Watts and Rumple, are gone on a great campaign against the fair Happers, let us
this once observe the Feast of Christmas.”

So it was that the Hill rested the latter part of the twelfth month in the second year of the
reign of Warren, son of Harding, the King.

Greensboro

HEADQUARTERS
All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL"
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.

If You Have Money, We Want It.
If You Need Money, We Have It.
Morris Plan Bank
WINSTON-SALEM, N. C.

Fire Insurance, Life Insurance, Accident and Health Insurance, we write these lines and they cost money which is supplied through
your bank. Did you ever think about making that account with which you pay all bills, secure against FORGERY?

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N. C.

What Are Your Banking Needs?
Do you need investment advice? Are you interested to learn how we can serve you and your family in matters
of trust? Would you like to open a savings or a checking account? Are you thinking of insurance? The Wachovia,
Its Staff, and Its Officers Are at Your Service.

The WACHOVIA BANK and TRUST CO.
NORTH CAROLINA
Raleigh
Salisbury
High Point
Asheville

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
A. T. SUMMEY, Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00.
