‘Four In A Row

SONIAN

Let’s Sweep The State FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 15, 1923 No. 16

DOCTOR GRENFELL TELLS OF EXPERIENCES IN LABRADOR

Famous Explorer - Adventurer Entertains Davidsonians at Length

AUDITORIUM WAS FILLED

Stereoptican Slides and Moving Pictures are Shown

Dr. Wilfred T. Grenfell delivered his unique and interesting lecture, “Midst Snow and Ice in Labrador” before a packed and eager audience in Shearer Hall on the evening of Wednesday, February 7. The lecture, consisting of stereoptican views and moving pictures with numerous comments thereon, was full of interest from start to finish and was told by one who has had some of the most remarkable experiences in the history of Arctic explorations. Modest and unassuming as Doctor Grenfell was, one could readily understand the wonderful work which he has accomplished for the inhabitants of that frigid region.

Doctor Grenfell started his work among the Scotch-Irish fisherfolk of Labrador over thirty years ago. He left London, he said, because he felt the great need of assistance in the far north and because he felt that his work would accomplish much more there than in a city such as London, where there was an oversufficiency of doctors. His work at first was largely a medical and surgical one but it has grown to enormous proportions. He started with only one hospital ship and limited supplies, but he has built up a chain of six hospitals, two orphanages, four nursing stations, some small schools and a seaman’s institute. Besides this he has taken steps to aid the industrial development of the people among whom he labors.

The province of his labors has been that thousand mile strip of seacoast between the frozen wilderness and the icy Atlantic. Labrador, said Doctor Grenfell, different from popular opinion, is as far from the United States as it is from England. The population is small and consists mostly of Scotch-Irish fishermen. In the summer, however, the number is greatly augmented by the arrival of about 20,000 in fishing boats from Great Britain and the New England States.

Doctor Grenfell’s greatest work has been that of medical missions. Although not sent out by any special church his work has many religious features. Traveling up and down the coast in his hospital ship he keeps all of his hospitals and nursing stations functioning in an efficient manner. These hospitals have greatly helped to alleviate the suffering of the people but have taught them the fundamentals of hygiene and personal health. A number of schools have been established through the instrumentality of Doctor Grenfell. Numerous stereoptican views of these schools and their interesting pupils were shown. The educational system is topped by a college in which instruction is received up to a grade corresponding to the junior class of our American colleges.

Doctor Grenfell has also done much to benefit these people industrially. They have learned how to weave baskets, rugs, and mats of all kinds. Another feature of the work of the people along this line is the manufacture of the “dickies.” These are great blanket-like robes which one wraps around his body and ties at the neck, waist and arms to keep the wind out. These are sold in Canada, Newfoundland, and New England. Doctor Grenfell has also introduced the raising of reindeer and his herd increased from 300 to 1,500, but owing to poaching he had to move them over into Canada. The moving picture of this enormous herd made quite an impression. Doctor Grenfell hopes to move these back to Labrador soon and show the people how to raise them.

(Continued on page 8)

WILDCAT MINSTRELS SCORE HIT IN SECOND APPEARANCE

Troupe Left Wednesday for a Four-Day Trip Through the Carolinas

A SPLENDID REPERTOIRE

Professor E. J. Lewin Deserves Unstinted Praise and Credit

On Tuesday night, February 6, the Wildcat Minstrels made their second appearance before a Wildcat audience. Their success was phenomenal; and the talents and ingenuity of those performing is undoubted by those who saw the performance. The Sultan of Sarawak will soon be the talk of two States and, if the faculty allowed, of the United States.

The play was divided into five acts of fun. The first act opened with our illustrious senior, Bob McLeod, filling the shoes of the Pullman porter on the Statesville-Charlotte line. His ability to fill this position and also that of a Wildcat minstrel soon became evident and he became the guide of the Wildcat minstrels in their trip abroad.

The second act opened on the Pacific Ocean. The ship on which the Wildcat troupe had been traveling suffered shipwreck with the result that the minstrels continued their travels in the lifeboat Saxofonia, bound for any place, anywhere. The bass of Tambo, alias D. G. Wilson, went as deep as the sea on which he sailed in the song, “One Hundred Fathoms Deep.” Harmony reigned supreme when the whole troupe closed the act with the song “Goodnight, Ladies.”

The island of Yap contained something else besides a cable station in the third act of the Sultan of Sarawak. H. D. Rogers gave one of the best exhibitions of the clog dance seen in a long time. Pithecanthropus then held the audience spell-bound with his appearance and “Down on a Cannibal Isle.” The unlucky minstrels were captured by a band of savages only to be rescued by Tarzan, the missing link who justified his name by his appearance. The whole troupe celebrated their deliverance by singing “Bamboo Babies.”

The fourth act saved Khediva’s head, brought joy to the Sultan, amplified the mood of the audience and proved that the Wildcat Minstrels were the stuff. Beggaring description, it will suffice to say that Ted Jones must sing himself to sleep, and the end men must make it their business to horse one another. Vic Brown, Buchanan, McCain and Allison furnished music for the act.

(Continued on page 4)

STUDENT BODY UNANIMOUSLY VOTES TO UPHOLD DEBATING

Professor A. G. Guitte Presents Plausible Plan to Students

The pending debate between Davidson and Trinity, and Davidson and Wake Forest have been made possible by the co-operation of the student body with the four literary societies and the debating council. The student body voted to give 25 cents per man, or a total of about $125.00, for the purpose of financing the two debates in the spring. The literary societies have paid the expenses of the biggest debate of the year, the one with Washington and Lee, at Lexington, Va., but it has completely drained the treasuries of all four societies. Provision for extensive debating schedules in the coming years is being made by the faculty and executive committee. At the next meeting of the trustees a proposition will be put before them which if passed will

(Continued on Page 8)

EX-CAPTAIN PAT CRAWFORD

Pat Crawford, running guard and one of the outstanding stars of the Fighting Devils, hails from Sumter, S. C., the home of many great Davidson athletes. He is probably the best all-around athlete in college; four years on the baseball team, three on the basketball team, with a captaincy in each is an enviable record. In addition, Crawford pushed the regulars on the football team for two years. Pat is the most experienced man on the basketball team. Although he failed to win a letter his freshman year, he captured the coveted monogram in 1921, and since that time has been a mainstay on the team. He was elected captain of the team for his junior year, breaking a precedent of long standing. Last year he was selected for a berth on the all-State team. His sensational long shots and close guarding have made hima terror to all opposing teams. Last season he was runner-up to Warhoss Mauze in points and this year he has averaged over three field goals per game. Clean, manly, and a great athlete, Pat numbers every man on the hill among his friends and admirers.

SEVENTY-SIX BIDS ISSUED BY DAVIDSON FRATERNITIES
Largest Number of Bids In History of College

With bid day over, the doubts and uncertainties that have been hovering around fraternity circles have been cleared up and a season’s worry is over. It seems that most of it, from the results, can be credited to profit, and very little to loss. As a whole, the freshman class seemed to be full of splendid material, for 76 bids were extended. Among all these there were only four cross-ups, so that 72 men will be initiated into fraternities, if eligible in regard to scholarship. The following is a list of the men to be initiated into the respective groups:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Hudson, F. R.; Teague, M. M.; Shaddock, J. R.; Lawson, H. C.; Cater, H. W.
Bachelors Club—Huie, L.; Lindamood, H. H.; Jones, A. S.; Martin, F. O.; O’Neal, E. A.; Sappenfield, N. E.; Moore, J. M.; Wilson, D. G.
Kappa Sigma—Johnson, Knox; Jennings, Wm.; Alford, F.; Alford, L.; Black, Wm.; Laird, Flake; Davis, Count; Lewis, Monk; Miller, Jack.
Beta Theta Pi—Currie; Anderson, F.; Anderson, R.; McMillain, R. H.; McMillain, J. A.; Barron, Crayton.

WILDCAT QUINT ADD TWO MORE WINS TO GROWING STRING OF SEASON'S VICTORIES

NATIONALLY KNOWN ORATORS SECURED FOR COMMENCEMENT
Dr. Vander Meulen, Dr. B. N. McLaughlin, and Hon. W. J. Bryan to Speak

PLANS TENTATIVE
Exercises to Begin on June 3rd and to Terminate on June 6th

The plans that the senior class is making for the coming Commencement Exercises are rounding into shape, although as yet they are necessarily tentative. The exercises, according to the present program, will begin on Sunday, June 3, with the Baccalaureate Sermon, and will end Wednesday, June 6, with the Graduating Exercises. The Rev. Dr. John M. Vander Meulen, president of Louisville Theological Seminary, has accepted the invitation to deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon on Sunday morning and Dr. B. N. McLaughlin, pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Norfolk, Va., will give the Y. M. C. A. address Sunday evening.

On Monday night the literary societies will hold their joint program at which the Junior Oratorical Contest will be staged. It is the purpose of the program committee to make this meeting a bigger and better part of the Commencement program than it has ever been before. In order to carry out this idea they will arrange to have the societies remain in joint meeting while the various society honors and diplomas are awarded instead of going to their respective halls for this part of the program.

The annual Literary Address will be delivered on Tuesday morning. Ex-Secretary of State, William Jennings Bryan, has been invited to give this part of the program. The Alumni Luncheon will be held in the gymnasium following this address. In the afternoon the Class Exercises will be held and, if all the reports are true, they will be both interesting and unusual. It is planned to have a show of some kind in the evening of this day. The Graduating Exercises will be held Wednesday morning. Included in these exercises will be the annual Senior Oratorical Contest, in which four seniors will contend for the Senior Orator’s Medal.

(Continued on Page 8)

COLORED TROUPE FURNISHES VARIED PROGRAM OF MUSIC
Entertainment Held Under Auspices of Junior Class

The Johnson C. Smith quintet and orchestra gave a concert in Shearer Hall last Friday night under the auspices of the junior class. They found an eager audience and they left one that was just as eager for encores. The program was well selected and sufficiently varied to keep up a sustained interest. It consisted of negro “Spirituals” in the main, with orchestra numbers and popular songs. Several of the orchestra numbers were written by a former member of the quintet. They have good reason to be proud of these pieces. Perhaps the best of the songs was the old favorite, “Old Black Joe.” There was a haunting quality about the voices that seemed to tell all the heartaches of generations of

(Continued on Page 8)

Wofford and Concord “Y” Go Beneath Yoke—But Are Defeated by Methodist

SIX OUT OF SEVEN GAMES
Mauze and Crawford Are Shining Lights in Fast Working Combination

After capturing four straight contests the Fighting Devils failed to hit on all five cylinders and lost to the powerful Trinity quint in Charlotte on the evening of the 6th by a 39-27 count. Two nights later they staged a comeback on the home floor and snowed under the crippled Wofford five 37-7. Despite the setback at the hands of the Methodists the Wildcats have departed on their tour of the State confident of capturing the majority of the four games with Guilford, State, Wake Forest and Elon.

TRINITY GAME
The failure of the Wildcats to cage long shots during the second period gave the contest to the Methodists by a 12-point margin. During the first five minutes of play the teams battled on equal terms. Spikes scored a field goal to start the game but Pat evened the count. Bullock and Boggs each added a field goal and the score remained tied at four all. Several pretty shots by Simpson and Crute put the Methodists in the lead and they were never headed during the game. With the first period almost gone the Blue and White led 17-7, but the Fighting Devils staged a rally and field goals by Red Laird, Pat and Captain George and one from the free throw line placed the count at 17-14 in favor of Trinity.

The Methodists started the final period with a rush and five field goals in succession put the game on ice. With the score standing 27-14 against them, the Presbyterians made two free throws and the Methodists ran their count up to 34. With the score standing 38-19, the Presbyterians took a brace and made six points but the rally came too late. Simpson shot a foul goal and Staley tossed one in from the floor as the game ended. The game was fast and interesting but the Methodists showed their superiority at caging the sphere and during the first minutes of the second stanza piled up enough points to win. Sook Boggs and Pat allowed few close shots and the majority of the Trinity shots were made good outside the foul line. Simpson and Crute both made sensational shots and it was due to their accuracy that the Wildcats were beaten. The former was high point man with 17 points, including six goals from the floor and five out of nine foul attempts.

The work of George Mauze at center proved the brilliant feature of the Davidsonian attack. The captain of the Wildcat five played a great floor game, shot two field goals and tossed in foul shots with unerring accuracy, making good nine tries out of ten. Pat Crawford at guard also showed up well and caged three goals. The Wildcat forwards were not given a chance to display their wares by the Trinity guards and made three baskets, two of which were accounted for by Staley. The Trinity quint displayed the better form in every point except in foul shooting, where Captain George had the decided advantage.

DAVIDSON (27) TRINITY (39)
Laird (2)......... R. F..Simpson (c) (17)
Mallory (0)....... L. F..Spikes (6)
Mauze (c) (13).... C..Bullock (6)
Crawford (6)...... R. G..Crute (10)
Boggs (2)......... L. G..Neal (0)

(Continued on Page 5)