; Alhambra. SAUNDER’S “PASTIME REVUE” MON.—WED.—FRI. Matinee 3:30 10c & 25c Night 7:30-9:00 20-35c

SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Say it with Flowers
Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
MELLON’S of course

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

DAVIDSONIA EUTOPIA
“Laundry called for and delivered.” 250 pretty co-eds. Hot breakfasts delivered. Absence restrictions suspended. Classes as you like it. Turkish baths en suite.

P. C. Henderson while throwing horse shoes the other day was heard to say, “I don’t Tommy vous.”

Sydenstricker—Bascom, can I borrow your hat again?
Sorrells—Sure, why the formality?
Sydenstricker—Oh, I can't find it.

Prof—Has anyone else a question?
E. C. Moomaw—Yes, what time is it?

In the spring young men’s fancies lightly turn to what the girls have been thinking about all winter.

The only difference between ‘When Knighthood was in Flower” and the present day is:
In days of old, a knight would take
A horse and suit of tin,
And with a ten-foot pole would try
His lady’s love to win.
But now he takes a bus of tin
And fills her up with gas,
And miles and miles away from town
He woes his winsome lass.

Carried out in Math last week, while the prof. was explaining a problem. “Now, Gentlemen, watch the board while I run through it once more.”

Fresh Joyner—What is the meaning of the word “Necking”?
Fresh McNair—“Necking” is the system of collaring a woman.

“I’m not sticking to facts”, said the stamp on the letter the student was writing to his dad.

There are meters iambic
And meters trochaic,
And meters in musical tones,
But the meter that’s sweeter,
Completer and neater,
Is to meet her in the moonlight alone.

The Economic department wishes to call attention to the fact that umbrellas are more expensive on rainy days because on those days they go up.

Will somebody notify Bob Gordon that Mr. Jackson said to please “come after catalogues during book room hours”?

We sometimes think the same thing when a fellow doesn’t answer when we say “Hello Gentlemen”.

NOTICE
The Peanut Parcher is going to try a new wrinkle in its department from now on. We have the consent of the faculty, trustees, and janitors so it ought to be all right. Each week there is going to be a column entitled WE WANT. Every week we will ask the students to hand in their ideas as to what they want. It may be original or not, poem or prose, but for the love of Pete don’t make it in Vachel Lindsay metre. We want what interested you—the other fellows will like it too. The best answers will be reproduced in a column entitled WE HAVE, with the contributor’s name under it. For the first start the subject will be:
1. What is college life?
2. Student Problems—No. 1. “GETTING UP”. This must be an original, informative essay of not more than 75 words. Fellows, this is your department and with a little get-together we can make it go. Hurry your contributions along to thirty Georgia.

The German 2 class was told Monday that breaking a rule was like throwing a kiss, perfectly safe but unsatisfactory.

Notice please:
My pitching ability........ Neely Hunter
My wonderful voice.......... Ted Jones
My dramatic ability........... Ted Jones
My good looks............ Ted Jones
IMIDMRIRS Trcic clas beens Ted Jones

“This is quite the Cow’s Hip”, said Avery as he bit into the boarding house steak.

Captain Weems Will Arrive Next September
Announcement has been made through the R. O. T. C. headquarters that Captain Weatherby is to be transferred and his position here is to be filled by Captain George H. Weems, former West Point football star and wrestling champion. A native of Waverly, Tenn., Captain Weems entered the Academy in 1913, graduating in 1917. For four years he was a linesman on the football squad, and in wrestling won the light-heavyweight championship of West Point. He served as secretary of the Y. M. C. A. for two years, and as president of that organization during his Senior year. Upon graduation, Captain Weems was assigned to the 9th Infantry, with which regiment he saw active service overseas, commanding a machine gun company. From July to December, 1918, he was an instructor in the army candidates’ school at Longres, France; then he returned to the 9th Infantry. Attached to the Army of Occupation in Germany, Capt. Weems was not brought back across the pond until May, 1919. For fifteen months he was stationed at Camp Travis, Texas, with the 4th machine gun battalion, next serving for two years as instructor of military art at the Infantry School near Columbus, Ga. At this school he ablycoached the linesmen on the football squad. This year Captain Weems has been taking a company officer’s course, which he will complete in June. He will arrive in September to take up his work at Davidson.

JUNIORS TO PUBLISH HUMOROUS MAGAZINE

The present Junior class has stepped into a new field of endeavor as yet untried by any previous class, namely, the publication of a humorous magazine. Twelve members of the class of ’24 are getting out a magazine which will probably be distributed during Junior Speaking. This magazine is to be made up similar to other humorous college publications, such as the Cornell Widow and The Virginia Reel. It is expected that this magazine will be received with a great deal of interest since it is the first time in the history of Davidson College that a publication of this nature has been attempted by any of its students. The name of the magazine is to be Cap and Bells. It will be thirty-six pages in length and the cover will be printed in two colors: red and black. Scattered throughout will be several drawings contributed by two members of the class. Many humorous short stories and anecdotes, together with jokes and exchanges, will add to the interest of the publication. This is to be the one and only issue of the magazine as it is to be considered as a part of the Junior Week program. One copy will be given free to each member of the student body, the faculty, the officers of administration, and to each visitor on the hill.

A MERRY DRAMA
Act the Ninth
ORIGIN OF THE SPECIES

Mac—Listen to this little ditty I just heard—
Bill—Can it, old dear, can it.
Mac—Oh, all right. But say, why the swanky duds which clothe thy person?
Bill—Oh, I’m just breaking in some new spring stuff.
Mac—What’s the brand?
Bill—Hickey-Freeman suit, Manhattan shirt, Paisley cravat, Clapp shoes, and I have a John B. Stetson in the closet.
Mac—Strutting the old mess for a change, eh, what? And might I ask the origin of such classy duds?
Bill—Easiest question I ever answered. Mellon’s old dear, Mellon’s.
(To be continued) (Adv.)

REBUILDING CAMPAIGN PROGRESSING RAPIDLY

The $600,000 campaign for rebuilding Chambers Hall is progressing nicely, says Mr. Lockhart, the campaign director. Subscriptions to date amount to something like $430,000 and it is hoped that the total will be $500,000 within the next sixty or ninety days. The quota for Mecklenburg County has been fixed at $100,000. Of this amount $77,000 has already been raised and the campaign managers for the county expect to go over the top in the drive between April 4th and 14th. The plan is to find five men or women in Charlotte, or the county, who will subscribe $5,000 each, filling out the quota by a small margin. A telegram received at the campaign headquarters in Charlotte from Doctor Martin states that work will be begun on one wing of the building within sixty days. The purpose is to complete a number of classrooms so that they may be ready for use by September, 1923. The rest of the building will be erected as soon thereafter as possible. The new building will contain thirty memorial classrooms. These rooms will be dedicated to the donor or to some person who has subscribed as much as $5,000, and will be named accordingly. Of this number thirteen have already been spoken for and the proper subscriptions have been made. Subscriptions for the remaining seventeen will bring the campaign well toward its goal, and with other subscriptions which will come in in the meantime they should swell it to the $600,000 mark. All plans for the campaign have been completed except those in the synods of Florida and Georgia where for some reason they have been delayed. The building contract has not yet been let but is still open for bids.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

STUDENTS FOR TRAVELING OR LOCAL POSITIONS

Qualify now, during your spare time for a Traveling or Local Position starting in June, developing the plan of religious education in the home. Opportunity to make $60.00 or more per week. Write for full particulars at once.
UNIVERSAL BIBLE HOUSE, College Dept., 1010 Arch Street, Philadelphia.

Merchants and Farmers National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SORE MUSCLES

Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

and give your stomach a lift. Provides “the bit of sweet” in beneficial form. Helps to cleanse the teeth and keep them healthy.

PRESCRIPTIONS
REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
COMPOUNDED BY

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
PIANOS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE