THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 3, 1923

TO THE ALUMNI:

During the present college year, the Alumni Editor has attempted to make these columns of more and more interest to
those who have passed through the portals of the Alma Mater into real life. If your name, or the names
of your friends, have not appeared on this page, you are largely to blame. As the new staff is now
taking charge of the paper, it is hoped that the alumni will cooperate with the newly appointed Alumni Editor. It
is my purpose to make this page in reality what the name implies, but this can only be done through
your assistance. If you have any information about alumni of the college, don’t hesitate to send it in. Your cooperation
is urgently requested.

Rev. John A. Carriker ’18, is pastor at Elizabeth, Ky.
Rev. R. C. Clontz, ’18, is building a new church in his pastorate at Cornelius, N. C.
Rev. R. D. Dodge, ’09, is Pastor at Logan, W. Va.

PROF. LOMAX DISCUSSES SPIRITUALS OF NEGRO
(Continued From Page 1)

To his readings, saying he was born in Mississippi in 1870, and had for a long time taken a great
interest in the negro religious songs, or Spirituals. Mr. Lomax pointed to the fact that the negro of today does
not generally take his religion as a vital part of his life and does not connect it with his ideas
of morality. Never does he think of using his religion to solve industrial and other personal and community problems. However,
we should not look down upon the negro and think his religion totally a failure because of the fact that
there is often in it more of the ridiculous than of the religious. It has been, Mr. Lomax said, only
a short time, comparatively speaking, since the negro was in utter barbarism in his native land of Africa, and we
cannot reasonably expect him to have risen to the level of the Anglo-Saxon in this time.

Professor Lomax disclaimed any desire to ridicule or mock the negro in his religious activities, for they are very serious
and solemn matters to the negro himself. He said he was in wholehearted sympathy with the negro and was ever
eager to do all possible to help him in his progress upward. It was in this spirit that the speaker
gave many selections of negro folk songs which he had taken down from the different negro meetings he had attended.
Many of them had a decided vein of humor in them and in some, there was an equal element of
lyrical genius. All of them had the musical swing so characteristic of all negro music. It was of interest to
note the easy familiarity of the negro toward God and

J. G. Richards, '09, is Superintendent of the city schools in Camden, S. C.
Rev. Edwin Mack, ’85, has recently delivered a series of lectures at Princeton, N.J.
A. N. McCallum, ’86, is Superintendent of the city schools at Austin, Texas.
Rev. J. M. Clark, D. D., '86, is Superintendent of Home Missions in Concord Presbytery. Dr. Clark spent part of
the past winter in Florida.
A. P. Bouman, ’95, is Cashier of the Commercial National Bank at Raleigh, N.C.
Houston White, '21, has his “tin lizzie” with him at Princeton, where he is taking post-graduate work. Houston expects to
drive home via Davidson, arriving here in time for Commencement.
M. S. Kennedy, '17, of Pulaski, Tenn., is taking a course in Law at the University of Tenn.

Rev. R. W. Miles, '10, our former “Y” Secretary, now at Auburn, Ala., is on the program of the Assembly’s
Young Peoples’ Conference to be held at Montreat in June.
Rev. J. A. Clodfelter, '94, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Townville, S. C.
J. W. Wilson, ’88, Internal Revenue Inspector, is now located at Greenville, S. C., doing special work in investigating for
Federal Estate taxes.
Former students under Dr. E. A. Byers will be interested in knowing that he has spent the past year studying
in France and Spain, having obtained a year's leave of absence.from Roanoke College with which he is connected. Miss Louise
Manning, who took courses in the College, spent the weekend with the Misses Lafferty. She is now located in Washington,
D.C.

Scott: Is actor Herbert Tareyton a movie star?

The Reel Stuff

The management announces that the picture this week will be "Glimpses of the Moon," with Bebe Daniels and Nita Naldi,
an Allan Dwan production. There is no doubt that Allan Dwan has produced one of the greatest pictures in the
history of the industry, in producing “Robin Hood.” Tapestries, antique furniture, rare paintings, and other properties used to give "The
Glimpses of the Moon," taken from Edith Wharton’s novel, a lavish and costly background were valued at $712,050,000. All of
New York’s art shops and antique stores were searched for the material used in the Vanderlyn palace and the Altringham
villa, homes of the idle rich, so that they would appear just as described by the author. Miss Daniels says
that every time you do a charitable act, every time you do something worthwhile, every time your thoughts are tempered
with magnanimity toward your fellows, you experience what I believe to be glimpses of the moon moments. There is something
about the moon when it shines in all its glory that brings a peaceful calm to those who look on
from the earth below. Almost anyone can verify the last statement, but to appreciate the full force of this paragraph
one must either read the novel or see this picture.

The past session has seen the best movies ever brought to Davidson College. All of the pictures shown have been
remarkably good, and some have stood among the foremost in the history of the industry. The five best pictures of
the year, "Manslaughter," "To Have and to Hold," "Back Home and Broke," "When Knighthood Was in Flower," and "Robin Hood,"
have been shown here while they were yet recent releases. The management deserves much credit for its excellent selections. Some
of the pictures yet to be shown are: "Racing Hearts," "One Exciting Night," "The Pilgrim," and "Sherlock Holmes."

Christ in his songs and his tendency to sing of such subjects as Heaven, Hell, and Death. The many Old
Testament heroes also seem to appeal especially to them and the way in which some of them are worked into
the songs is both humorous and unique. Professor Lomax closed his entertainment by singing one of these negro folk-songs entitled,
"Lord, Remember Me." This was, perhaps, the hit of the evening and made a fitting climax to a very pleasant
and instructive lecture.

Dr. Treloar Wearn, ’18, who for the past year has been an instructor at the University of Pennsylvania, will spend
this summer abroad. He expects to attend a great international meeting in Edinburgh, Scotland where he will demonstrate his work.
Doctor Wearn, on his return to this country, will take up his work at Harvard University as a member of
the School of Medicine.

The approaching Commencement of Union Seminary, May 6-9, marks the completion of twenty-five years since the removal of the Seminary
to Richmond, and forty years of service by its beloved President, Rev. Walter W. Moore, D.D. Doctor Moore is one
of the best-loved men in the Southern Presbyterian Church. In scholarship, in oratorical ability, and as a writer he is
among our leaders, and his influence on the young men who have gone out from Union into the ministry is
beyond any power of computation.

The Greatest Things My Mother’s Words

Leadership—

CHERO-COLA GRAPE-MELO ORANGE-MELO ARE PRE-EMINENT

HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS Pianos and Players Gibson Guitars and Mandolins SHEET MUSIC “EVERYTHING MUSICAL” ANDREWS MUSIC STORE 211-213 N.
TRYON ST.

You Can Never Foresee The Unexpected INSURANCE PROTECTS YOU AND YOURS W. E. PRICE 215 Piedmont Building Arch B. Taylor
1911 Charlotte, N.C.

Better Safe Than Sorry

NONE TOO SMALL :: :: NONE TOO LARGE We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N.C. CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

Rain may prevent outdoor athletics and keep away the crowd from indoor events, but your expected income from either source
can be made sure by rain insurance procured from McAlister Carson, manager (’13) INSURANCE DEPARTMENT INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.

A. T. SUMMEY, President ANDERSON, Vice-President JOHNSTON, Vice-President I. W. STEWART, Cashier T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
