DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer

Today—1 Page Vol. 1. No. 4

DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 18, 1923

FOUNDED 1922

TOWN DOTS

The many friends of Mrs. Archie Brown will be glad to learn that she will soon be herself again.

Miss Madge Potts has been sick for the last week.

Dr. and Mrs. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, spent Wednesday evening in Davidson.

The son of Rev. H. H. Cassidy, of Woodleaf, has entered Davidson High School.

Miss Harriett Hill, who was head nurse here during the influenza epidemic in S. A. T. C., is spending the winter here with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. John Hill.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert Wood left Monday after a pleasant visit with their son, Prof. W. W. Wood, for their home in Charlottesville, Va.

Miss Elizabeth Grey returned Monday to New York after a month's vacation at home.

Mr. Bassett, father of Mrs. W. L. Porter, has been quite sick for the last few days.

The Thelmite Club was entertained Friday evening by Misses Lizzie and Mary Young. Dr. J. Wilson MacConnell read an interesting paper on “Medical Frauds.” A delicious salad course brought the meeting to a close.

Miss Evelyn Potts spent the weekend in Statesville.

Mrs. M. H. Goodrum has returned home after spending a few days in Morganton with her daughter, Mrs. Mundy.

The Epworth League held its regular monthly meeting with Miss Margaret Mock.

Miss Annie McConnell, of Raleigh, has been the charming guest of Miss Fannie McConnell.

Mrs. Martin, of Russellville, Ark., mother of W. F. Martin, ’26, spent the past week in Davidson. While here she was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle. Mrs. Martin returned home Thursday.

Mrs. Henderson gave a reception at her home on Main Street last Wednesday evening in honor of her daughter-in-law, Mrs. Walter Henderson. Delightful refreshments consisting of sandwiches and tea were served.

Mrs. Robert Harding and little son, Robert, Jr., are visiting Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding.

Master Frederick Fleagle last Saturday night entertained his friends in honor of his 12th birthday. Many games were played by the young folks, after which delicious refreshments were served.

Circles Meet

All circles of Davidson met Thursday afternoon at 4 o'clock. Three groups are being organized for the purpose of reading “Sunrise in Aztec Land,” the first with Mrs. J. L. Currie, the second with Mrs. Lingle, and the third with Mrs. Withers. It is hoped and believed that much interest will be manifested in this book, which is one of the most interesting works of the year. The author is Dr. Wm. A. Ross.

The canvass for the “Missionary Survey” is to be carried on this week. If one-fifth of the membership of the church take the magazine, the church will secure a coveted place on the Survey Honor Roll, and it is hoped that many new subscriptions will be added to the list of renewals.

Missionary Leaves

At a meeting of the auxiliary in the Civic League hall last Thursday evening, a very interesting program was presented. At the close of the meeting a social hour was held, during which refreshments were served. The purpose of the social hour being in the nature of a farewell tendered to Miss Mary Hill, who leaves soon for her mission post in China. All Davidsonians are proud of the splendid work Miss Hill is doing, and wish her a safe arrival to her destination, and that God's blessing may rest upon her.

REVEREND SAMUEL POLK DIES AT HOME IN N. J.

A telegram received by J. M. Polk, of the Sophomore class, last Friday night announced the death of his father, Rev. Samuel Polk, of Lawrenceville, N. J. This is the second bereavement in his family which Polk has suffered during the past month, his mother having died just before he reached home for the holidays.

The death of Rev. Samuel Polk brings a peculiar sorrow to the student body; sorrow because of the loss of a man of sterling worth to the world and one whose high qualities have become known to the campus. Both Mr. and Mrs. Polk will be remembered by the students as visitors to the college last year. The sympathy of the entire student body goes out to Polk in this his double bereavement. It is expected that he will return to college to finish the year.

DR. J. W. MCCONNELL CELEBRATES BIRTHDAY

On Thursday evening, from 8 to 12 o'clock, the home of Dr. and Mrs. J. Wilson MacConnell was the scene of a unique social affair. The occasion of the party was Doctor MacConnell’s birthday. About 40 guests were received by the host and many old-fashioned games were enjoyed. Old maids, checkers, dominos, authors, and heart dice were the main ones. The best game of all, and the one that required the most skill and that caused the most amusement was Jack Straws. The winner being one of the most prominent professors at Davidson College.

The guests were then ushered into the beautifully decorated dining room. The cutting of the birthday cake by Doctor MacConnell caused much merriment. A false cake was put over the real cake and the doctor could not understand why he could not cut it. But Mrs. MacConnell lifted the false cake off and there appeared the beautiful birthday cake, decorated with fern and different colored candles. After the cutting of the cake, ice cream and cake, candy, fruit, and coffee were served. Then Master Courtney MacConnell entered with a tray loaded with many varied gifts and presented it to the host. About 12 o'clock, the guests departed wishing the doctor many more happy returns of the day.

NAMES OF PROSPECTIVE FRESHMEN ARE OBTAINED

One hundred and twenty-nine students responded to Bill Cooper's call for names of prospective students and turned in a total number of 221 names. North Carolina furnishes 120 of the prospects, 30 of whom live in Charlotte. South Carolina comes second with 35, Georgia next with 24, and so they range on down through Alabama, Virginia, Mississippi, Florida, West Virginia, Louisiana, Kentucky, until Texas, Arkansas, New Jersey, and Washington, D. C., hand over only one name apiece. Several boys turned in the names of their brothers, including Ogden, Taylor, Pomeroy, Earnest, and Mellwaine. Story will complete his edifice with the arrival of the brother. These boys are very fine material for they are the best friends of a fifth of the student body. These are also the best in their respective prep and high schools, being carefully selected bymen who know them. Of college activity in the group, some of the prospects being expressly stated as good athletes.

D. COLLEGE MAGAZINE TO APPEAR
(Continued from Page 1)

dent body as a whole, expressing the united sentiments of the school. In the first issue of the magazine, work representative of Davidson's best poets and authors will appear, together with dissertations, discussions, and opinions. An outline of the contents, made up before the magazine went to press, is as follows:

If Music Be the Soul of Love, Play on!—Sonnet by D. A. S.
A thrilling mystery story by Galloway, after the style made famous by Poe.
Ships at Sea—Short poem by D. A. S.
A Midshipman’s Cruise—An intensely interesting narrative by W. T. Baker concerning the trans-Pacific cruise by the U. S. N. A. midshipmen.
Autumn—A poem by Bryan.
The Man and the Domino—Another prose poem by John Bryan.
Ptolemy the Second, by John Henry Davis—A story with a surprise ending.
The Man Who Pays a Tribute to Dad, by D. B. Walthall.
An Autumn Day. Smith, ’26.
Mountain Storm, A short story of mountain folk by James Gudger.
A Falling Leaf. Poem by D. A. S.
Rich Men—A humorous dissertation on the same by H. M. White.
The Technique of the One-Act Play, by Prof. E. J. Cowan. An exhaustive and authoritative discussion.
To Peggy on Her Birthday, by D. B. W.
Chambers—A prose tribute, by Liston Elkins.
The Fundamental Law, essay by H. K. Russell.
The Persian Lover. The lover proposes—an exquisite lyric, by John B. Bryan.
Politics—A story of the Southern Appalachians introducing “Uncle Ben,” a quaint politician of the caves, by John in prose.
A nature poem by Fred A thoughtful
There will be good material for every form.
A burlesque sonnet by J. R. Earnest.
Book Reviews—Bobbit and His Freedom.
Exchanges. Jokes.

DR. GRENFELL TO TELL
(Continued from Page 1)

and to win their admiration, confidence, and respect. Most of the work of Doctor Grenfell and his associates is carried on in the summer when traveling by sea is possible, but even in winter the work does not stop. Though part of the hospitals close, the work is faithfully carried on, and the Doctor of the International Grenfell Association and their helpers, wrapped in wind-proof fur robes, travel from station to station for thousands of miles over arctic snows, and across frozen bays of the northern Atlantic, by means of Eskimo dog teams.

Doctor Grenfell has long been recognized as one of the greatest explorers and missionaries of the day, and is certainly worthy of all the honors given him. Among the unsought honors that have been heaped upon him are the only honorary M. D. which Oxford has ever bestowed, an honorary M. A. by Harvard, an honorary L. L. D. by Williams, and another M. D. by Toronto. He is likewise a fellow of both the English and American Colleges of Surgeons and is one of the few medical doctors holding a master mariner’s certificate.

MR. GLASGOW AT “Y”
(Continued from Page 1)

when you see it.” The speaker gave another striking example of a strike which caused great suffering, a great loss of service, and also a loss of millions of dollars, because the president of a street railway was unwilling to face the facts in the case. “There is an untold benefit derived from correct valuation. ‘The fellow who does not realize the value of the right relations with the people back home is sustaining a great loss in life.

“You have a chance in college that only two percent of the young men of America have. Will you realize your opportunities? Will you cash in on your advantages?

“If you have the power to start, do not worry about getting to your destination. Launch out into a Christian life with what power you have, and by the right use of that power you will gain the momentum needed to carry you through.

“The need of the hour is for men who take advantage of their opportunities.

“Take advantage of these opportunities to tell others about Christ. There are boys here, and everywhere today, who want to know about Him. You know about Him, tell them.”

Mr. Glasgow called attention to the fact that Roger W. Babson, the famous statistician, in making his report to men who thought only in dollars and cents, said: “The world’s greatest asset is religion; the world’s greatest security is religion, and the world’s greatest danger is lack of religion.”

“The call of the day is for young men of character, for strong, fearless men, who purpose to live for Christ.”

COURT OF CONTROL
(Continued from Page 1)

This was modified by the student body to the effect that no Freshman should go in the post office between breakfast and chapel. Another ruling of the board is that no Freshman shall walk on the grass. For a long time, the grass on the campus has been disappearing due to the promiscuous trampling of the students, and lately several paths have been made which mar its beauty. It was decided that this ruling would materially lessen the number who might walk on it and at the same time could call it to the attention of the rest of the students.

The Court of Control will have regular meetings and will function as strictly as possible. It is here to attend to the conduct of the Freshmen and to protect upperclassmen from any insubordination. Not only will it strive to keep the Freshmen in order, singly and collectively, but it is ready and willing to help any one of them in any case that may arise. Its primary purpose is to do away with hazing and it is doing its best to institute a new feeling which will promote a class and college spirit better than hazing ever did.

The personnel of the Board of Control is as follows: Seniors—J. M. Adams, J. H. Davis, L. W. Dick, and W. J. Richards; Juniors—R. R. Jones and J. I. Smith; Sophomores—J. R. Briggs and D. M. McComb.

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE
People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

“Taste the Electrik Maid Difference”
BREAD PIES---CAKES---BUNS
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Saturday, January 8:15 P. M.
SHEARER HALL
All Seats Reserved
SEAT SALE FRIDAY THE 26th
White Drug Company

The Davidson Glee Club PRESENTS THE G.C.U. Glee Club
A Novel and Interesting Programme
Vocal—Instrumental
TWENTY BEWITCHING BEAUTIES