THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON  
Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., SEPTEMBER 21, 1923 No. 18

Greatest Enrollment in Davidson's History  
Faculty and Old Men Welcome New Students at Freshman Reception  
College Gymnasium Decorated Effectively for Social Event

PRESIDENT MARTIN SPEAKS  
Coach Younger, Secretary Williams and Ted Jones are Two-Minute Speakers

The biggest social event that has occurred at the opening of college this year was the reception given to the Freshman class by the Y. M. C. A. at the college gym last Monday night. Since no monitors were on duty to check the rolls, no one knows whether every Davidson boy was present, but judging from the large, enthusiastic crowd that was milling over the floor, a hundred percent representation of the student body turned out to extend to the Freshman class the fellowship and goodwill of the older members of the student body and of the Y. M. C. A.

Each year’s progress is begun by a Freshman Welcome, but the grand entree of the class of Twenty-Seven into the activities of the college, and her organization, was the biggest reception the old Alma Mater has experienced in a number of years. Upon entering the reception hall, which was draped in the Red and Black of Davidson College, the members of the student body, and especially the members of the Freshman class, were received by the members of the faculty and their wives, who (Continued on page 3)

New Watts Dormitory Is Outstanding Improvement  
Changes Are Made on Campus. Watts Will Be Completed at an Early Date

Of the many improvements made around the campus during the past summer, the most important to the welfare of the college is the building of the new Watts dormitory. Dr. Martin made the announcement late last spring that Mr. George Watts, of Durham, N.C., had very kindly given the necessary funds to rebuild the burned dormitory. Work was soon started on the new building and, although the construction was held up by unavoidable delays in getting material, the building is near completion.

The design and construction of the new Watts is very similar to that of the new dormitories, East and West, with a few exceptions. The new Watts is about 15 feet shorter than East and West dormitories, and it accommodates about 100 students, or 20 less than the other new ones accommodate. In order to lessen the noise in the corridors of the new Watts, the contract calls for the laying of composition flooring over the cement in the corridors. The steps leading to the upper floors are of reinforced concrete instead of steel and slate, as in East and West, and (Continued on page 2)

Court of Control Makes Plans and Regulations For Control of Freshmen  
Court Introduces New Features to Regulate Conduct of Freshmen

Since the permanent abolishment of hazing in Davidson College and the installation of the Court of Control as a means of governing the Freshmen, only success has followed the work of that body. And it is hoped that the student body will continue to support it as they have in the past. To give the students and friends of Davidson an idea of what has been accomplished we take this opportunity of making a brief report of the work of the past year, and the beginning of this one.

From the institution of the Court of Control early in the fall of 1922 to the end of the school year in June 1923, there were 88 Freshmen summoned to appear before the Court for discipline. A number of these were called twice and some of them three times. These figures are sufficient proof that the court was not inactive during its infancy, and that it received the loyal support of the student body, without which no such report could be made. But the Court of Control is glad to be able to say that it does not estimate its success in the number of penalties placed on the Freshmen. Though the idea conveyed by the word “Control” stands uppermost in the mind of the outsider, those who are better informed know that this has become secondary, and that the court does not see its future opportunities limited to a bundle of pen- (Continued on page 5)

First Y. M. C. A Service Featured By Three Talks  
Mr. Williams, Ted Jones, and Albert Hillhouse Address Large Crowd At Vesper Service

Three short talks featured the initial Y. M. C. A. service of the year held in Shearer Hall Sunday evening. The program was in the nature of a welcome from the Y to the student body in general and to the new men in particular. Ted Jones, president of the Y. M. C. A., was the first speaker, summarizing the ideals of the association in a few well-chosen words as a man’s organization of which every Davidson man is a member, and whose chief end is to save souls. He emphasized the admirable qualities of courage, strength, leadership, and spiritual power to be found in Christ, the Master and Leader.

Following this, Albert Hillhouse, president of the student body, made a forceful talk, calling to every man at Davidson to stand this year, more than ever before, for Christ and His principles. He put the challenge straight from the shoulder to every professing Christian to fly his colors this year. He used the parable of the talents to urge faithful and diligent work and support of all Davidson activities. The general secretary, Mr. John P. Williams, of the class of 1916, who was president of the student body (Continued on page 4)

Eighty-Seventh Session of Presbyterian Institution  
Junior, Sophomore and Freshman Classes Increase in Size While Seniors Fall Short

ENROLLMENT TOTALS 571  
Number of Old Men Return to Continue Work in Alma Mater

Records of enrollment, available a week after registration was begun for this year, give an encouraging outlook for the term. In general, there is an increase over the number entering at the same time last year, occasioned by the enlargement of rooming space in the new Watts dormitory. Statistics last year, of this number Freshmen, about the same as last year. There are 168 Sophomores, an increase of about 20, has also increased; year. In the graduating class, but an increase in their own ranks from last year. A noticeable fact is the large numberof men who have returned, who fail to return, whose places are filled by men entering from other colleges into the upper classes, who, (Continued on page 2)

COACH MONK YOUNGER
Former Davidson Athlete Who Will Direct Wildcat Athletics

YOUR DAVIDSONIAN
In order that the home folks might enjoy the column of the Davidsonian, and that the news of the campus be broadcasted to Davidson supporters, subscriptions will be sent to any point in the world. Representatives of the paper will wait upon the students of the college Thursday night, in their rooms, to take subscription contracts. Send the paper home!

It shows that there are 571 students enrolled to date, an increase from 550. Over 234 are in the Junior class, having 85 this year. In the Senior class, there are 77, a slight decrease from last year. There are a number of fellows

Opening Game
Freshman Class Presents Galaxy of Dumb Ones
New Men Represent Remote Extremes and Perplexing Paradoxes, Writes a Scribe

The class of ’27 is indeed one of remote extremes and dumbfounding paradoxes. It's the oldest and the youngest, the largest and the smallest, the loudest and the dumbest, and at the same time the most verdant and yet the most rankly ignorant of all Freshman classes. The class has attached to it the numeral 1927, which is undoubtedly intended to indicate that its origin dates back to a more remote age than any previous class which has ever entered the sacred precincts of these halls of learning, or watched a single one of its sacred edifices.

There are various facts, however, which to men of wisdom and discrimination, such men for instance who choose Camels rather than Spark Plug, and wear only the most aristocratically advertised and costly raiment, which, to these men, as was said, are quite indisputable proof, that the date 1927 has been and ever shall be erroneously applied to the present Freshmen class, and gives altogether a false impression. These various facets are entirely too numerous to dwell upon (Continued on page 6)

Richardson Field, New Wildcat Lair, Red and Black Machine Pointed For of Season With Elon
Conalies Veuiver® ah and Tilson Give Wildcats Stiff Workouts

TEN LETTER MEN RETURN
Ten Contests with Carolina and Virginia Teams Make Up Davidson’s Grid Card

Three weeks of hard training under the direction of Coach William L. (Monk) Younger, former Davidson and V. P. I. star, finds the Davidson football machine rounding into shape for the 1923 Wildcat grid menu. Younger is assisted by Tex Tilson, also a V. P. I. star. Both coaches have been on the Hill since the first of the month preparing for the gathering of the would-be Wildcats which took place a week before the opening of college. With crisp, clear weather to aid them, the mentors are hard at work laying the foundation for what promises to be a successful season.

Ten letter men of last year’s machine have returned with the opening of school for places on the new Younger eleven. Fields at center, Long and Cox at guard are the only letter men back in the line, but to fill in the holes there is an abundance of hefty material on hand. Summers and Lindamood are both getting tryouts for the tackle positions, but they are being pushed to the limit by such prospects as Hodgins, Vance, McMillian, and Hunter. (Continued on page 6)

Best Equipped Plant in the Carolinas
Stunt Night Feature Home Coming Day Program
Every Type of Stunt to be Presented by Members of Student Body in Riot of Fun and Frolic

Another forward step in dramatic work on the campus will be Stunt Night, staged by the Dramatic and Glee Clubs in Shearer Hall on October 13th. This is the first attempt at such an event at Davidson, but it is hoped to make it an annual feature of the fall calendar. Any form of stage entertainment will be given a tryout, and Professors Erwin and Dendy will help coach the stunts and assist new men. The date has been chosen because the Citadel game is to be played here that afternoon, and it is hoped to make the occasion one of the big weekends of the year. The committee, composed of Ted Jones, Liston Elkins, John Simpson, and Pigg Martin, are hard at work arranging the program and all those who desire to take part are requested to hand in their names as soon as possible.

The primary purpose of Stunt Night is to attempt to discover any talent in the student body that can be used and developed in the Dramatic and Glee Clubs. However, the program will not be confined to dramatic and musical events, for a variety of entertainment is desired for its own sake.

Two Gridirons, Baseball Diamond, and Quarter Mile Track
Building Richardson Athletic Field, the new thirty thousand dollar stamping-ground of the Davidson Wildcats, is fast nearing completion, and when the last pebble is taken off, and the last seat in the stands is ready, it will be one of the finest athletic fields in the South. The new field is located on the same site of old Sprunt Field, but it is much larger and more commodious. The new field affords complete accommodations for the three major sports: football, baseball, and track. It is enclosed by one of the latest spike top metal fences. Privacy will be maintained by means of hedges and shrubbery which will be planted just inside the fence. The general plan of the athletic field is as follows: In the extreme north corner is the varsity baseball diamond. As yet this part of the field is incomplete so the details of its construction are not very familiar. The infield is located on practically the same spot that the diamond occupied on Sprunt Field. Directly to the southwest of the baseball diamond is the varsity football field which also will be rounded into shape soon. The field is equipped with the latest improved metal goal posts so constructed that the supporting posts are set a yard beyond the actual goal line. The field runs in a general direction of north (Continued on page 2) (Continued on page 8)