_ THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

WILDCATS SUFFER REVERSAL
(Continued from Page 1)

For his great work under the basket, the Tigers would have scored more often. Colbert and Day also showed up
well for the Tigers while Mills played a great game at guard.

The line-up:

DAVIDSON (18) CLEMSON (25)
Beall (2).......... R. F.......... Day (6)
Laird (2).......... L. F.......... Byran (14)
Mauze (8).......... C............. Garrison
Crawford (6)...... R. G.......... Colbert (3)
Boggs ............. L. G.......... Mills

Substitutions—Davidson: Davis for Beall; McConnell for Davis. Fouls: Mauze, two out of five; Colbert, five out of six. Referee: May
(Oregon Aggies).

Wofford Game

Two long shots from the middle of the floor in the last minute of play gave the Wofford Terriers a
32-30 decision over the Wildcats in the second game of the trip. Up to that time the battle had been
nip-and-tuck with the goddess of luck showing favoritism to the South Carolinians. Wofford offered a stronger line-up on their home
floor than they had used in the previous game. Lindsey, the stellar Methodist forward, who was sick when the Terriers
came north, was back in his place and his points were way yonder beyond the margin of victory. Wofford without
Lindsey was a different team.

The Wildcats started off with a rush and caged a couple of shots before Wofford knew the game had started.
It looked like the affair was going to be a repetition of the first encounter at Davidson but the Terriers
soon got to seeing red, and from then on the points were hard fought. Wofford managed to forge ahead before
the end of the half and the score stood 18 for Wofford, 16 for Davidson. Davidson forged ahead and victory
was in their grasp when Gentry, substituting for Lindsey, caged one of those shots you see once in a lifetime
and the score was tied. A moment before the whistle blew another rolled in on a shot from the middle
of the floor and Wofford had won.

In spite of the fact that Davidson lost, they put up a better game than at either Clemson or Furman,
and with an even distribution of the breaks the result would have been different. Pat Crawford, playing at forward just
for the sake of variety, was running wild and caged nine field goals. Warhoss Mauze was a trifle off form
and had a hard time keeping his eye on the basket. For Wofford, Lindsey was the high point man, with
sixteen markers to his credit. Evidently that wasn’t as good as he was due to do because Gentry was substituted
for him in the second half. Gentry proved to be hard to handle, but Boggs stuck pretty close to him
and the best he could do was to register two goals from the center of the floor.

Line-up follows:

DAVIDSON WOFFORD
Laird (4).......... R. F.......... Lindsey (16)
Crawford (18)...... L. F.......... Collins (8)
Mauze (6).......... C............. Childs (0)
Davis (0).......... R. G.......... Dillingham (2)
Boggs (0).......... L. G.......... Rogers (2)

Substitutes—Staley (0) for Laird, McConnell (2) for Davis, Gentry (4) for Lindsey, Lindsey for Collins. Fouls—Laird, two out of two;
Mauze, four out of nine; Lindsey, eight out of thirteen; Collins, two out of four. Referee: Hanes. Half—Wofford, 18; Davidson
College, 16.

Furman Game

Pat Crawford was the outstanding figure in the game which humbled the Purple Hurricane last Friday night. Pat ran wild
tossing the sphere into the basket from every conceivable position, bewildering Furman’s defense and awing her spectators with one of
the best exhibitions of basketball playing they had ever witnessed. The scorekeeper put down eleven field goals to Pat’s credit.

Playing in hard luck on the South Carolina trip, and remembering Furman's triumph in the Thanksgiving gridiron battle, Davidson’s quintette
ran onto the floor with a determination to win or bust. From the first jump, the old fighting Wildcat spirit
was displayed by five speedy, elusive, accurate-shooting cage men. Captain Warhoss started off with his usual pep, but within three
minutes after the first whistle, a bad fall resulting in a torn ligament in his shoulder forced the Wildcat center
to the bench. Nappy Davis took his place and filled it well. Nappy’s dribbling was a feature of the first
half. Despite the injury, Warhoss was charging to go. He couldn’t sit on the bench and see his team defeated,
so in the second half he trotted back onto the floor and led the Wildcats’ attack. His splendid work in
this part of the game was more remarkable in view of the fact that a nerve was pressed between two
bones of his shoulder, causing excruciating pain. Fighting under such circumstances is displaying the real Wildcat spirit!

It was in the second period that Pat Crawford moved up from guard to forward and wrought havoc in the
ranks of Furman’s defense. At his customary position of running guard, Pat covers the entire court and tosses long shots
with unerring accuracy; at close range, he was a dead sure shot. Davidson steadily forged ahead until at the pistol
shot the score stood 39 to 34 for the Red and Black.

Laird followed close to Crawford in marking up counters for the Wildcats, with five field goals and three good shots
out of five attempts from the 15-foot line—a total of thirteen points. Mauze added two markers and Davis, substituting at
the pivot position, scored two more. Beall did good work at forward, and at guard Boggs’ defensive work was great.
Time after time, Sook recovered the ball under Furman’s goal and dribbled it out of danger. For Furman, Dobson was
high-point man, with nine to his credit. The 34 points, however, were pretty evenly distributed among five men, and this
consistent goal-shooting, combined with good teamwork, made the victory a hard-earned one for Davidson. The game was an unusually clean
one, only eight personal fouls being called on both sides. All Davidson men report the Furman team as good sports
and the entire college as splendid hosts.

Line-up:

DAVIDSON (39) FURMAN (34)
Laird (13)......... R. F.......... Andrews (5)
Crawford (22)...... L. F.......... Waters (4)
Mauze (2).......... C............. Brock (8)
Crawford (6)....... R. G.......... Dobson (9)
Boggs (0).......... L. G.......... Carter (6)

Substitutes—Davis (2) for Mauze, Mauze for Davis, Simpson for Carter, Ques for Simpson. Fouls: Laird, three out of five; Andrews,
one out of two; Dobson, one out of one.

Guilford Game

Playing without the services of the captain against one of the strongest teams in the State was too much of
a handicap for the Fighting Devils, and Guilford copped a 23-15 verdict last Saturday. The game was hard fought, even
rough at times, but the up-State crew showed uncanny ability to locate the basket from the middle of the floor.
The Wildcats led at the end of the first half 10-9, but early in the second period Guilford forged into
the lead and thereafter they were never headed.

The game abounded in thrill; Crawford’s wonderful playing, the great game put up by the Frazier boys, especially J. G.;
Boggs’ ability to intercept passes—these are but a few of the many exciting plays that kept the spectators on needle
points throughout the contest. Pat Crawford looped the pill through the elusive hoop from mid-floor for the first points of
the game. J. G. Frazier, who handles the ball to perfection, then went on a spree and rang up three
fouls and a field goal in rapid-fire order. Crawford and Laird put Davidson back in the lead with a field
goal apiece, but the Quakers found the hoop twice. Pat and Red took their turn and a brace of counters
for each put the score at 10-9, the Wildcats on the long end. The Guilford team guarded closely in the
second half and Davidson could register but two.Field goals. The visitors, however, located the basket and despite the great work
of Boggs, the Quaker machine rang up field goals with relentless accuracy. Pat Crawford was high-point man and the outstanding
player for Davidson. His four field goals, all from the middle of the court, were beautiful. The defensive work of
Boggs was another feature of the game. He prevented many scores by his ability to intercept passes. J. G. Frazier
was the brightest star for Guilford. His dribbling was the best ever seen on the local court, and his passing
and shooting were of high order. J. W. Frazier also played a bang-up game. A wonderful one-arm shot from the
sideline brought the stubby forward a round of applause.

DAVIDSON (15) GUILFORD (23)
Staley (0)......... R. F..J. W. Frazier (6)
Laird (5).......... L. F...J. G. Frazier (9)
Davis (0)............ C........Mackie (0)
Crawford (8)..... R. G... Ferrell (4)
Boggs (0)...........L. G..... Thomas (4)

Substitutes—Beall for Staley, Elkins for Beall, McConnell (2) for Laird. Fouls: Laird, one out of two; J. G. Frazier, three
out of seven. Referee: Faul.

Years, concomitant with achievement and personal losses, has not been ascertained at the time The Davidsonian goes to press.

Few Occupants
There were several seniors, privileged from attending the morning church service, in the building at the time the fire was
discovered. Men sleeping on the third floor were wakened in time to no more than dress scantily and escape with
an arm full of possessions. One man, entrapped by the flames, used a rope to escape from a third-floor window
to safety. Had it not been for the few seniors who were on hand at the very beginning, it is
doubtless that little personal property could have been saved. Two hours after the fire was discovered, there were but the
red brick walls and smouldering ashes left to mark the site of the building. The interior woodwork burned with the
rapidity of seasoned timber and left the brick veneer, a smoking hull that partly crumbled as it cooled.

Watts was erected in 1908, along the most modern lines of architecture known at that time. It was a three-story
structure of twenty-five rooms, built to accommodate fifty students. It was named for the late George W. Watts, of Durham,
a staunch supporter of Davidson. The loss of Watts is partially covered by insurance.

TWO-THIRDS OF FUNDS (Continued from Page 1)
Commercial National Bank, of Charlotte, will be named the Bible hall. Davidson has no warmer friend than Mr. Dunn, and
his sagacity and business ability have meant much to the institution, as he has served on its finance committee for
the past thirty years. Mr. Dunn is an elder in the First Church, of Charlotte. As a memorial to Mr.
Robert Morrison Miller, chairman of the present campaign and ex-president of the Davidson Alumni Association, one of the lecture halls
is founded. During his administration as president of the alumni association, marked progress was made in the spirit and organization,
and it is gratifying to the alumni and all of his friends that he is thus memorialized.

The third memorial room has been founded in honor of Mr. C. W. Johnston, also a member of the First
Church, of Charlotte, and devoted to his church and denomination and that for which they stand. Mr. Johnston feels that
responsibility for service is concomitant with achievement and attainment, and this permanent memorial will testify to this attitude. Throughout the
State, no name is better known for Christian philanthropy than that of the Sprunts, of Wilmington, and it will be
a genuine pleasure to the many friends of Dr. James Sprunt to know that one of the rooms is named
in his honor.

As a memorial to Mr. R. L. Stowe, of Belmont, the fifth room is endowed. He has for years been
interested in the Presbyterian Church and all of its activity, and other institutions than Davidson College have been benefited through
the benevolence of the Stowes of Belmont. Miss Virginia C. Gilmer, a beloved member of the Woman’s Auxiliary of the
First Presbyterian Church, of Greensboro, left a legacy to the auxiliary upon her death recently, to be used for the
advancement of Christianity as seemed best to this body. Members of the auxiliary added to the fund and established one
of the rooms in the new Chambers Hall to memorialize the giver and carry out her wishes as seemed best
in their judgment.

In addition to the above, a prominent Presbyterian family, made up of the children and grandchildren of a beloved deceased
minister of the church, have subscribed sufficient funds to found a room to his memory, but wish no announcement of
the fact at present. The members of a young men’s club in one of the churches are similarly founding such
a memorial to their minister, with the request that this be not announced until completed.

WEEKLY BIBLE CLASSES STUDYING AZTEC LAND
The Bible classes are finding the study of Mexico, the land of remarkable contrasts, a most unique study. The first
four chapters of Sunrise in Aztec Land have been completed. Those who teach the classes are fortunate in having the
instruction of Doctor Porter, who at one time was a missionary to India. Although the attendance does not reach the
100 percent mark, many students display unusual interest in the classes. It has always been the purpose of the Y.
M. C. A. to make the Bible classes interesting and attractive to every student. Each year some one of the
mission fields of the Presbyterian church has been studied. This year the study of the Christian work among the Mexicans
has been selected in order that more knowledge may be had of the needs of that field and in order
to know more about just what is being done in Mexico. Interest has been stimulated in this study by reason
of the fact that the attention of the United States has been closely kept on Mexico during the past few
years. It is believed that those who are not sharing the benefits derived from the weekly Bible classes will find
it well worth their time to attend.

If you have to replenish your stock of bed linen, you will find that the best is the cheapest in
the long run. We have on our shelves sheets, pillow cases, and spreads of PEPERELL and other well-known makes. Turkish
and Huck Towels of standard quality. Rugs and Chairs especially adapted for dormitory use. Pajamas of the celebrated “RED CROSS”
makes in white and colors. Athletic Underwear from B. V. D. at $1.50; SPAX at $1.25 and HANES at $1.00.
Shirts and Collars from ARROW. EARL & WILSON and Socks in cotton, wool and silk from makers of known standing.

MEN’S FURNISHING DEPARTMENT
The M. H. Goodrum & Co.
SOUTH MAIN STREET

For SHOE REPAIRING See BLACK & KIMZY, 10 North Barracks

Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill. Mills Shoe Co. Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the Commissary.

SMYTH LECTURES
Columbia Theological Seminary
COLUMBIA, SOUTH CAROLINA
JOHN M. WELLS, President
HUGH R. MURCHISON, Executive Secretary

The Smyth Lectures will be delivered in the First Presbyterian Church in the City of Columbia, at 8:00 p.m., beginning
Wednesday, April 11, and continuing through Wednesday, April 18th. The ministers and Church members are invited to attend these lectures,
feeling sure that they will be highly appreciated and enjoyed. They are made possible through the generosity of the late
Dr. Thomas Smyth of Charleston, S. C.

Wednesday, April 11th
Dr. J. Sprole Lyons, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga.
“Sermonic Sources”

Thursday, April 12th
Dr. James I. Vance, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Nashville, Tenn.
“The Man and His Message”

Friday, April 13th
Dr. Dunbar H. Ogden, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, New Orleans, La.
“Passion in Preaching”

Monday, April 16th
Dr. J. B. Hutton, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Jackson, Miss.
“Regulative Ideas in Preaching”

Tuesday, April 17th
Dr. W. McF. Alexander, Pastor, Prytania Street Presbyterian Church, Mobile, Ala.
“The House in Which the Minister Lives”

Wednesday, April 18th
Dr. L. E. McNair, Pastor First Presbyterian Church, Columbia, S. C.
“The Minister and His Work”
