THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 22, 1923

Alhambra
Beginning Monday February 25th
GUY and ELLIS JOHNSON Present
JIMMIE O’BURRELL
former SUBERT-KEITH STAR
IN HIS PINNED INSPIRATIONS
$5,000.00 In Silks and Satins
14—PEOPLE—14
5—Vaudeville Acts—5
Matinee Daily Prices, 10-25c
NIGHT 7:30-9 Prices, 20-35c
Program Changed Mon., Wed., Fri.
NO ADVANCE in PRICES

After Every Meal
Chew your food well, then use WRIGLEY’S to aid digestion. It also keeps the teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe
(adv.)

Prayer of the Cotton Mill Employee:
Harding is my shepherd, and I am in want; he maketh me to lie down on park benches; he leadeth
me beside the still soup houses; he restoreth my doubt in the Republican party; he leadeth me in the path
of destruction for his party’s sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of starvation, I do
fear evil, for thou art against me, thy politicians and profiteers they frighten me. Thou preparest a reduction in salaries
before me in the presence of mine enemies, thou anointest my income with taxes, my expenses runneth over my income.
Surely unemployment and poverty will follow me all the days of the Republican administration and I will dwell in a
rented house forever.

Six Hints for College Men
Find ’em.
Fondle ‘em.
Feed ’em.
Fool 'em.
Forget ’em.

Mother—Did I hear you kiss young Doctor Jones at the door?
Daughter—Yes, Mama, but Randolph applied an antiseptic immediately.

Wiggs—I wish they didn’t make such affectionate pies at this place.
Pomeroy—Affectionate pies? What’s them?
Wiggs—Why this pie is so thin the crusts are stuck on each other.

Pat Crawford—Wonder what heaven is like?
Mauze—I don’t know. I never had enough to eat!

Aiken (on Minstrel trip)—Well, I declare.
Waiter (excitedly)—Pfwat is it?

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes
Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of ’26, who constantly craves information. It is
our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his room-mate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial;
in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Fifth
Mac (suddenly)—Professor Otto Weinstein had achieved undying fame By the well-known Weinstein theory that immortalized his name. His home was
filled with medals, he was swamped with Ph. D.’s. No Fahrenheit thermometer could boast of more degrees.
Bill (still more sudden)—Whoa! Hold it. While you are bulling about theories let me speak a parable.
Mac—Spit it out. Nothing holding you.
Bill—Listen! That little theory about wearing somebody else’s shirts except your own works fine don’t it? Why don’t you look
up some good styles and invest?
Mac—Since you have such a verdant knowledge, enlighten me as to the proper in the shirt line.
Bill—Happened to drop in Mellon’s the other day and they tell me that the styles in shirts this season are
fine stripes and checked Maderas, the same being what they have a full line of nothing else but.
Mac—'Tis enough. Me for Mellon’s—

Aiken—Why this egg has a double yolk.
Waiter—Thash strange, gen man over there saysh hish ash a shicken in it.

Osculation
Doctor (in hygiene class)—Should babies be kissed?
McIver—Not unless they are girl babies and at least eighteen years of age.

Fresh Air Please
Bug Professor—Mention some of the most familiar of American birds.
Howell—Sparrows, turkeys, flying squirrels and mosquitos.

GOLDEN QUILL SOUGHT BY MANY REPORTERS
Keen interest is being displayed by members of the Reporters Club in the annual contest for membership in theOrder of
the Golden Quill. The golden quill means to the young journalist what the college monogram means to the athlete. It
signifies that the wearer has reached the top in the realms of local journalism. To be a wearer of the
quill one must be a member, or former member, of the Reporters Club. The selection of members is left to
the discretion of the president of the Reporters Club and the managing editor of The Davidsonian. The candidates are judged
for length of service, quality and quantity of work. A special ruling provides that there shall never be more than
ten members in college at any one time. Quills for this year will be awarded at junior speaking. The members
of the order are W. M. Heston, L. D. Elkins, E. H. Mauze, H. M. Morris, C. F. Wildman, A.
C. Wildman, W. A. Gamble, and W. J. Cooper.

THE GRASS GREW GREEN ALL ’ROUND, ALL ’ROUND:

1. For three transgressions of a freshman, and for four shall he not be paddled, but for walking on the
grass shall he be canned.

2. My son, harken unto my council, and to my wisdom let thine ear be inclined; the slumbering adder wake
not, the sophomore thy brogan fall.

3. Thus in parables were the men of '26 warned, and having eyes they saw, and having ears they heard,
and for all the grossness of their hearts they perceived and did remember, that their joy might be full.

4. And the grass grew and waxed green upon the face of the earth, and the trees clapped their hands
for joy, and the very ravens did sing from the tall sycamores.

5. In that day also the faculty sent forth a person of dark hue upon the campus, and he wandered
hither and thither and found no lodgement and returned unto the faculty, and they looked, and lo, a crabtree twig
was in his mouth.

6. Then did the faculty know that the campus languished for pruning; wherefore, even as the directory was pruned by
them, so was Oak Row pruned by the Ethiope at their bidding.

Commissarettes

We announce our spring opening of athletic equipment. Everything for the sporting man. Come down and see our display.

VISITING CARDS

For the Junior Speaking and Commencement season. The latest designs engraved or embossed as you prefer. Our college representative—W. J.
Cooper, will be glad to show samples.

Remember that every Wednesday is “Crowell Day.” Have you seen our line of golf clubs and tennis rackets? See the
Richards non-shrinkable duck clothing. Do you need these?—Baseball Gloves, Tennis Rackets, Baseball Bats, Basket-ball Shoes, Sweat Shirts, Track Shoes, Tennis
Racket Covers.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT

GET THEM AT Norton Bros. Barbers NEXT TO TOBE’S

The Commissary Student Outfitters

Say it with Flowers SCHOLTZ, the Florist Charlotte, N. C.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Vicks VapoRub

(To be continued next week)

PIANOS

Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT 16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE
