WILDCATS NEVER LOSE

TO HAZE OR NOT TO HAZE FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 18, 1923 No. 14

COURT OF CONTROL EMBARKS ON POLICY OF FRESHMAN REGULATION AND RESTRICTION

New Board in Attempt to Substitute for Hazing Restricts Seven First-Year Men

PROMOTES SPIRIT

Measure Enforced to Preserve Beauty of Campus

The newly instituted Court of Control is functioning efficiently and apparently has the hearty support of the student body. The
primary purpose of the court is to do away with hazing by attending to the conduct of the Freshman class
and to assist in making them possessors of the true Davidson spirit. At meetings of the various classes, held Monday
after chapel, each class seemed more willing to give the plan a fair try-out until April 15th, at which date
it will be voted on as a permanent feature of college life.

At the student body meeting last Monday, the court gave evidence of its efficient and workmanlike methods. It was announced
that seven Freshmen had been found guilty of jibing and that they would be campused for periods of from one
to two weeks. When a man is campused it means that he is not allowed to go off the campus
except for the purpose of attending meals and that he must report to one member of the Court of Control
at 10 o’clock every night. In addition to this, several other men have been brought up and their cases settled.
It is the purpose of the court to keep tab on the conduct of all men brought before it.

Besides settling the above cases the court has made several regulations concerning the conduct of the Freshmen in general. It
passed a rule that no Freshman should be allowed in the post office before 9:15 a. m.

(Continued on page 8)

T. ALBERT LAKE ELECTED NEW SOPHOMORE VICE-PRESIDENT

Orange and Black Chosen as Class Colors

At the Sophomore class meeting Monday morning called by the president, M. S. Beall, to elect a vice-president in place
of J. M. Pleasants, who did not return to college this year, J. A. Lake, Jr., was elected to this
office. The class also transacted some other business at this meeting. It heard a report from a special committee appointed
to secure class pennant designs and to recommend class colors. H. B. Price, as chairman of this committee, submitted these
two sets of colors: red and white, and orange and black. The class, by a large majority, chose orange and
black for its colors. Two pennant designs were submitted and the class selected one having the word Davidson in red
on a black field at the pointed end of the pennant, and the numerals, ’25 in orange, at the other
end on a black field, a red border separating the two ends, and the whole pennant being bordered with red.

The class heard reports in addition from D. M. McComb and J. R. Briggs, its representatives on the Court of
Control. They outlined the work of the court and the Sophomore class’s relation to it and made an appeal for
a whole-hearted support from the class in an effort to make the new regime a success. By a rising vote
of confidence the class made clear its purpose to stick to the Board of Control, go to the members themselves
when they have any kick coming, and give the system a fair try-out.

MR. GLASGOW AT “Y” VESPER DELIVERS MAN TO MAN TALK

Men With Fixed Aims in Life Are Sought by Leaders Today

A forceful message that sank deep into the hearts of the hearers was that delivered by Mr. Tom Glasgow, a
leading business man and layman of Charlotte, at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening. Mr. Glasgow brought
a message as from man to man, the character of which always appeals to the college man of Davidson. Bill
Cooper, of the “Y” Cabinet, presided, while Bob McLeod led the song service. Following the opening songs, Bascom Sorrels and
John Adams led the house in prayer. Cooper then read the Scripture for the evening, which was the first chapter
of Daniel, after which he introduced the speaker.

Mr. Glasgow, in his introductory remarks, paid a compliment to the type of men coming from Davidson, which, he said,
are the best of any school. “A Life of Purpose” was the theme upon which Mr. Glasgow based his talk,
taking the life of Daniel as an example. After giving a short sketch of Daniel’s early life, he came to
the main characteristics that made him a great success in life. “Daniel was a strong man, a brave man, and
ambitious. He faced the crucial test of his life; it was his to choose whether he would be an ignominious
slave, or would rise to a position of authority. He faced the crucial test and came out on the right
side. His success was due to the fact recorded in Daniel 1:8 ‘And Daniel purposed in his heart that he
would not defile himself with the king’s meat.’ His first test came, just as do our first tests, as a
little one. It was a question of whether or not he should eat and drink of the king’s bounties. But
Daniel had a purpose, and so he made good.

“If you propose to succeed, you must think ahead; plan for emergencies before they come.” Here the speaker told of
an engineer on a great railroad who saved many lives in a wreck because he had planned his actions before
an emergency arose. “To succeed, you must have a true estimate of value, you must be willing to face the
facts, and know a worth-while thing.

(Continued on Page 8)

Davidson Recognized

Davidson has recently been put upon the approved list of the universities and colleges of America. The American Association of
Universities has two lists of members, the first one containing only universities. The second list is for colleges whose work
and standing are approved by the association. This means that a student with an A. B. from Davidson will be
accepted abroad and will be admitted to the highest privileges of any institution. Before this time Davidson men have been
accepted at Yale, Harvard, Hopkins, Princeton and other colleges without examination. This new distinction will be of particular benefit to
Rhodes scholars who go to Oxford. Doctor Lingle and Doctor Martin have been instrumental in having Davidson placed on this
list.

CAPT. GEORGE MAUZE—STELLAR CENTER, WHOSE WORK WAS A BRIGHT LIGHT IN THE SEASON'S FIRST GAME

In George W. Mauze, of Huntington, W. Va., the 1923 Wildcat basketeers have a splendid captain. A player of proven
ability, he also possesses fine qualities of leadership. Warhoss is one of the “follow me” type of captains, excelling in
all points of the court game. Last year, his first on the varsity, he was one of the outstanding stars
in every game, and won a well-merited berth on the All-State team as a result of his fine playing.

Mauze is an excellent example of what hard work and skillful coaching will do. Coming to Davidson with practically no
basketball experience, he worked untiringly for three years on his class teams. Last year he led his team into a
well-earned championship and in doing so won his nickname, Warhoss. Under Coach Dutch’s carefulTutelage he has developed into a finished
player. Warhoss is an ideal center; tall, rangy, full of fight, a great floor man, and a past master at
the art of hitting the meshes, either from the court or the foul line. He is dangerous anywhere in the
vicinity of the goal, but his specialty is follow-in shots. He was high point man on last year’s Poison Squad,
making 154 points in 13 games, for an average of well over 11 counters per game. We're looking for great
things from you this year, old Warhoss!

E. S. FAISON WILL CAPTAIN WILDCAT ELEVEN NEXT FALL
Sterling End Man Will Lead Davidson’s Grid Representatives

Elias S. Faison, ’24, of Faison, N. C., was elected captain of the 1923 grid team at a recent meeting
of football letter men. ’Lias has served three seasons on a flank of the Wildcat line, and wears a D
with two stars upon his sweater, in recognition of his valuable service. Faison entered Davidson with the present Junior class,
after a brilliant athletic career in prep school circles of Virginia. The Moore-Faison duo was quick to gain recognition on
the field. In the games of their first season, they stood in the front rank as Wildcat stars. Captain Moore
piloted the eleven last season and it now becomes the duty of Captain Faison to conduct the campaign of the
coming season.

(Continued on page 4)

COACH HENGEVELD GROOMS FLOOR ARTISTS FOR BEST PROSPECTIVE SEASON ON RECORD

DOCTOR GRENFELL TO TELL OF EXPERIENCE IN ARCTICS
Noted Missionary Explorer Will Visit on February 17

Dr. Wilfred T. Grenfell, missionary, explorer, physician, sea captain, author, scientist, lecturer, and movie photographer, will deliver his lecture, “Midst
Ice and Snow in Labrador,” in Shearer Hall on Wednesday evening, February 7th. To dwellers in the sunny south, Doctor
Grenfell's epic story of the northern coastland, illustrated with personally filmed motion pictures, will be exceptionally interesting.

Doctor Grenfell’s story deals with his unique experiences among the hardy fishermen of Labrador, who live on that bleak strip
of rugged seacoast between the frozen wilderness and the icy Atlantic. During the brief summer months, the population of Labrador
temporarily increases. About 20,000 deep-sea fishermen from Newfoundland, Nova Scotia, and Maine annually make their appearance in their little fishing
schooners, stay for a while, and then return to civilization. For 30 years, Doctor Grenfell has been conducting a wonderful
work among the Scotch-Irish fisherfolk of Labrador. In the year 1892, he sailed to that bleak coast from England with
the idea of establishing medical and surgical work there. Starting at that time with but one hospital ship and limited
supplies, he has gradually built up along the thousand-mile coast a chain of hospitals, four nursing stations, two orphanages, some
small schools, a large seaman’s institute, a hospital steamer, and a fleet of smaller boats connected with the various hospitals.

People from all parts of the English-speaking world have enlisted in his service, giving their lives to this great missionary
work. The money required to build up and maintain this work was secured largely through private contributions. With all due
respect to contributors and co-workers, however, it has been Doctor Grenfell himself who has been responsible for what has been
accomplished, and his success is partially explained by the fact that he has the wonderful gift of being able, under
all circumstances, to get along with those about him.

(Continued on Page 8)

Junior Week Plans

At a recent meeting of the Junior Class, it was decided to hold Junior Week on the weekend two weeks
previous to Easter. Definite plans are well under way and many features will ensure the success of the occasion. Since
Junior orations have been eliminated, the social functions will be especially stressed. It is expected that a large number of
visitors will be present for the event. The faculty has been petitioned to grant Saturday, March 17th, as a holiday
for the presentation of the program. If this petition is granted, it is believed that the entire student body will
remain on the campus, and this will lend much to the success of the occasion.

Practice Gains Puts Coach Dutch in Dilemma as to Personnel of Varsity Five

CRAWFORD LACKING
Two Carolinas to Be Covered by Scrapping Quint

The Wildcat quint of '23 is rapidly rounding into form and when the last exam is finished will be ready
for their contests with the best teams in the Carolinas. Nine men, Mauze, Crawford, Davis, Beall, Mallory, Shepherd, Boggs, Laird,
and Sappenfield have been issued uniforms and will compose the squad which will perform in the season's opener. And with
the wealth of material on hand, it will be a hard matter to stick to one combination all the time
and the line-up at the close of the season may be a very different one from that which occupies the
limelight now. Although five letter men are back, their places on this year’s team are by no means cinched. Laird
and Boggs seem to have the best chance of breaking in, the former as a forward and the latter at
a guard position. Laird is proving to be a sensational shot and Boggs is a hard man to beat at
guard. Shepherd is also a good guard and a hard man to get around, while Sappenfield is an accurate shot
at forward. Pat Crawford, captain of last year’s quint, has had his tonsils removed during the past week, but should
be in good condition to start the season proper after exams. Outside of this, the squad is in excellent physical
trim and ready for the whistle. In a practice session Saturday night, the first team nosed out a 31-23 win
over the scrubs. At times they exhibited flashes of

(Continued on Page 4)

COLLEGE MAGAZINE EXPECTED TO APPEAR AT EARLY DATE
Change in Staff Delays Publication

The long-awaited first issue of the Davidson College Magazine will be out in about two weeks. There has been much
speculation as to the reason for its failure to appear at the usual periods, but all is due to a
change in the staff's program. Instead of the three or four slim issues of 20 pages, there will be but
two issues—one appearing in each semester.

The College Magazine has not received the support and approval of the students that it deserves. Recognized as one of
the leading literary productions in the South, and published by a school that boasts a newspaper second to none, the
magazine is due all the backing the students can give it. Compare the outline of the contents of the coming
issue with such a table in any other similar publication, and there is little to be desired. It is very
nearly impossible to issue such a magazine once a month, as has heretofore been attempted, and preserve the quality of
the work presented. A college magazine, in the main, has a purpose entirely different from that of a newspaper. The
magazine is the medium through which men who do not care for the journalistic side publish their productions. The magazine
is considered, chiefly, as a collection of individual work,—each author receiving personal credit. On the other hand, the newspaper is
the mouthpiece of the student body.

(Continued on Page 8)

The Day of Reckoning Approaches
Show Your Mettle
