THEDAVI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., OCTOBER 5, 1923 No. 3

WILDCATS WIN GREAT BATTLE FROM P. C.--3 to 0

Student Body Institutes Honor Store, To Be Operated In Basement of Watts

Honor System of the College Put to Real Test by the Student Body. C. A. Young Appointed Manager by Student
Council. Store Will Handle Eats of Every Kind.

As a result of an experiment made at Davidson last year, the student body will open a “Serve Yourself” store
in the basement of Watts Hall within the next few weeks. Were it not for the honor system now in
effect at Davidson, this store would be an impossibility. The Student Council, acting as the Board of Directors for this
enterprise, have already begun to prepare for business by electing C. A. Young as manager. An Honor Store has been
long anticipated here, but did not become a reality until a motion was placed before the student body last week
for its action. The student body upheld the motion creating the store by an overwhelming majority, only twelve votes being
cast against it. Stores of this nature are now being operated in many of the sister colleges in the country.
Best known of these stores is that at Washington and Lee, where all kinds of student supplies are priced, placed
before the students and the cash drawer left open for the student to make his own change. This store has
been effectively operated for several years and is an object of pride of every Washington and Lee student. It is
the desire of the authorities and students at Davidson to make the Davidson Honor Store one of equal merit with
that of Washington and Lee. The proposition, instituted this year as a test, will become permanently established on the Hill
if it proves successful. This store will be operated for remuneration to replenish the coffers of the student (Continued on
page 6)

Revised House Committee Announced By Hillhouse

Committee to Serve Students by Making Dormitory Life More Bearable

A system recently installed at Davidson College, which will prove of great benefit to the students if used properly, is
the House Committee, composed of one Senior or Junior from each hall.

This system was installed by the Student Council to receive and straighten out all complaints regarding superfluous noises, janitor service,
lack of hot water, and other such cases. In co-operation with the Board of Control, this committee also has charge
of certain Freshman regulations; one of these, which has recently been put into effect, is the mailing system. Under this
system, one Freshman is appointed on each floor to collect all mail on his floor at 10:30. The mail is
then pooled and one Freshman posts it all each night to ensure early mailing. With the co-operation of the students,
the committee will be able to ensure better living conditions in the dormitories. It is hoped that all the students
will become acquainted with their committeeman in order to ensure a closer working union between the students and the committee.

East Dormitory
Basement—Selser, J. M.—D.
1st Floor—Brown, R. H.—113.
2nd Floor—Alexander, H. W.—204.
3rd Floor—Patterson, P. M.—304.
4th Floor—Cromartie, A. D.—480.
Chairman of East—Selzer, J. M.

West Dormitory
Basement—Allison, O. J.—D.
1st Floor—Heston, W. M.—109.
2nd Floor—Brown, C. V.—211.
3rd Floor—McComb, D. M.—304.
(Continued on page 5)

Ib, chapter is

Sigma Upsilon Elects Three To Membership

J. H. Davis, D. B. Walthall and H. M. White are Initiates

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity has elected to membership the following men: D. B. Walthall, H. M. White and J.
H. Davis. This election took place at the first meeting of the fraternity for this year, which was held last
Monday night, September 24th, in the S. A. E. hall. The initiation will take place at the next meeting of
the fraternity. All the men elected to this honor year have been chosen from the Senior class. Their election was
the result of the literary skill and ability they have shown, and which has been conspicuous enough to warrant recognition
by Sigma Upsilon. These men represent the best literary material of the Senior class, and have been outstanding in the
literary endeavor of the campus for the time they have been at Davidson College.

The old members of the fraternity are: Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. M. E. Sentelle, Dr. Frazer Hood, Prof. E.
J. Erwin, Dr. E. F. Shewmake, and Prof. L. M. Currie; W. F. Galloway, R. R. Jones, W. M. Heston,
D. Elkins and Ed. Fewell. The local chapter is fortunate in having Dr. E. J. Irwin, who is president of
the national fraternity, as a member. Sigma Upsilon embraces all the literary activities at Davidson. An extensive program has been
planned for this year, which will cover the entire field of literature. In the working out of this program no
little (Continued on page 2)

JOHN C. (POPSY) HUNT

Whose right toe decided the P. C. Contest Friday

Mr. Frank Orr Speaks On “A College Man’s Doubts”

Charlotte Lawyer Addresses Vesper Service Sunday

ATTACK ON ATHEISM

Victor Brown Leads Well Attended Meeting

Taking as his theme the 14th Psalm, Mr. Frank Orr, a prominent Charlotte lawyer, delivered a wonderful message of light
and truth to the student body at the “Y" vesper service last Sunday evening.College man’s doubts was the subject of
his address, and as a college man speaking to college men, it proved a subject of intense (Continued on page
6).

A Young Lawyer Hunt’s Place Kick In Final Moment Of Play Gives Victory to Red and Black

Palmetto Team Puts Up Great Fight But Wildcats Will Not Be Denied. Presbyterians of the Two Carolinas Evenly Matched. Wildcat
Backs Gain On Off Tackle Plays.

Held back by the fighting Bluestockings of P.C. for three periods, the Davidson Wildcats in a whirlwind finish marched down
the field and place-kicked their way to victory over the Palmetto Presbyterians in the last two minutes of play, to
win 3-0.

It was a thrilling battle—this contest between the Presbyterians of the two Carolinas—which held four thousand spectators in its grip
during sixty hectic minutes of play in the Winthrop College stadium at Rock Hill last Friday.

Varied Program Assured For Stunt Night Crowd

Comedy Skits, Musical Numbers and Songs on Program

The program for Stunt Night, October 13th, nears completion and the committee in charge is working hard for the success
of their new idea which will most likely take the place of Senior Speaking and will prove to be the
big annual fall celebration on the Davidson College campus.

The four classes, the Glee Club, the Dramatic Club, the Sigma Upsilon fraternity, and the campus Orchestra will have places
on the program, if the plans of the entertainment committee are perfected. The Dramatic Club will stage a one-act play
of 20 minutes. Stunts by individual acrobats will also be featured.

Already the class stunt committees have begun their preparations. With the hardest part of the work out of the way,
the two weeks that will come between now and the 13th will put everything in tip-top shape. Nothing of the
nature of the features decided upon has yet been divulged, and will not be divulged until the curtain rises on
the acts themselves.

A review of the stunts will be held this week by Professors Erwin and Dendy, who are assisting the committee
in its work. Two hours of clean, delightful entertainment will be furnished to the students and many visitors who will
be on the campus during the weekend. The Davidson-Citadel football game on Richardson Field Friday afternoon will be part of
the festivities (Continued on page 3).

One Second Before Victory—Pigskin Rising Over the Bar

It was anybody's battle until the moment when Wick Black dropped to his knees on the 20-yard line, the ball
was snapped back, and Popsy Hunt's toe sent the ball sailing over the bar, squarely between the uprights, for the
three points which spelled a Red and Black victory.

For the first 50 minutes of play the honors were even. A Wildcat drive had placed the ball on the
South Carolinians’ 13-yard line early in the third period, but their line stiffened and the ball went over on the
5-yard mark. Then, after a beautiful punt by Hindman, an intercepted pass reversed the roles and P.C. had the ball
in Red and Black territory. A short punt by Shepherd gave the Palmetto lads the ball, which they rushed back
to the 14-yard line. Hindman dropped back to the 25-yard line, and defeat loomed for Davidson; but the drop-kick went
wide by inches and it was the Wildcats’ ball.

Then came the Wildcat rally. Black, Shepherd, and Hendrix advanced the ball 20 yards to the 40-yard line. It was
fourth down and a foot to go. At this stage, Hendrix worked a brilliant piece of gridiron strategy (Continued on
page 6).

Mrs. Baker Trains Glee Club For Southern Tour

Director of the Carolina Concert Club to Instruct Wildcat Musical Artists

The services of Mrs. Coral Baker, of the Carolina Concert Club, prominent in the musical circles of the South, have
been secured by the Glee Club and Orchestra to instruct them for the contemplated trip through South Carolina and Georgia.
Members of the club consider themselves fortunate in securing so excellent a musician as Mrs. Baker and it is expected
that this year’s club will be superior to those of the past.

Davidson in the past years has been very much handicapped in not having first-class directors for her musical organizations. Ted
Jones, the leader of the club, expresses the hope that this will be a turning point in the work of
the organization and that a permanent director will be secured in the future years for the training of Davidson’s musical
organizations to lift them to a higher scale of perfection.

Mrs. Baker will arrive Friday, when she will first start on her task of developing a first-class orchestra and Glee
Club. As a musician, Mrs. Baker has a national reputation. She has studied extensively in New York as well as
abroad. For some years she served as an instructor of music in New York City and today she is ranked
as one of the foremost vocal teachers in the South. Recently she has served as the director of the First
Presbyterian Church choir of Charlotte.

The material for an exceedingly good Glee Club is at her disposal. At the call for volunteers to try out
for the club about 75 students reported for try-outs. This represents about 15 percent of the student body. Among these,
a selection was made that promises to do well with some training.
