8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB TO APPEAR HERE SOON

Splendid Musical Program to be Presented

The Carolina Concert Club, which appears at Shearer Hall, October 22nd, has made an enviable reputation as a musical organization since its first public appearance two years ago. During the past season, this organization gave several concerts in Charlotte and nearby towns and was one of the main features on the program of the Made-in-Carolinas Exposition and the Automobile Show. Plans are now being made for a series of concerts during the coming winter in some of the principal cities of North and South Carolina.

Wherever the club has appeared, it has won enthusiastic applause and music lovers have expressed much praise for the programs rendered. Visiting artists who have heard the club in concert have declared that its work is equal to that of similar clubs in our largest musical centers and have voiced their appreciation of the wonderful training displayed.

The director, Mrs. Coral H. Baker, is one of the best chorus directors in the South, and the manner in which she handles the club in concert indicates the thoroughness of her knowledge of music and its interpretation. In addition to the 10 members of the club and Mrs. Baker, there will be several Charlotte ladies appearing on the program. They are some of the most popular singers and musicians in that city.

Tickets will be on sale at White Drug Company, Monday, October 22nd, or may be obtained from Ted Jones, at 107 West Dormitory. Admission will be 50 cents.

C. E. CLASS ENJOYS PEPPY ENTERTAINMENT

The familiar saying, “It takes eating to have a good time,” was tested out by the Christian Endeavor Expert Class last Saturday night in the reception room of the gymnasium. When it comes to having a real social time, in the right way, this class has proven itself worthy of upholding the reputation of all such previous entertainments held. The sandwiches, cold drinks, fruits, cakes, and peanuts that were served as refreshments were enjoyed by all.

The most interesting event of the evening came when each man present introduced himself, telling his name and home. It was found that each of the Southern states was well represented. During this time, each man tried to keep any of the refreshments from wasting. Meanwhile, jokes caused much laughter and merriment.

In order that the merriment of the evening might be complete, the remainder of the program was devoted to songs and yells, which included "The Good Old Ship of Zion," with its innumerable verses, and other favorite songs of the campus. The class disbanded with the Mizpah benediction.

WILDCAT’S OPPONENTS SHOW GREAT STRENGTH

The football season so far may be called a complete success. The Wildcat whirlwind beat Elon 19 to 0 in a slow game featured by the brilliant aerial attack of the Wildcats and the line plunging of Black. The next game was a grim battle with P. C. It was only by a thrilling last quarter finish that Davidson triumphed by a score of 3 to 0. The two teams were about evenly matched both in weight and fighting spirit.

ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON

MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS SERVICE
2nd Floor Knox Bldg.
SATISFACTION

BELK BROS. CO.
Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus, and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50.

NEW FELT HATS
New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS
Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES
Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR
Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c
Men’s medium weight unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY
Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors - 25c and 35c
Men’s silk sox 48c, 85c, $1.00

Miss Grace Kohn, soprano, member of the Carolina Concert Company, who will sing in Shearer Hall next week.

Miss Christine Smith, contralto, who will sing with the Carolina Concert Company in their concert before a Davidson audience, at an early date.

The out-of-town guests were Miss Margaret White, Mr. W. C. Johnston, Jr., Miss Mary Johnston, Mr. W. J. Johnston, Mr. and Mrs. W. N. Johnston, and Mrs. J. A. White, of Mooresville; Mrs. W. N. Thompson, of Charlotte, and Messrs. J. D. and L. Hobbs, of Mt. Holly.

At the punch bowl, the following toasts were given: To the bride-to-be, by Mrs. W. N. Johnston, of Mooresville; to the groom-to-be, by Mr. W. J. Johnston, of Mooresville; to the girls-left-behind, by Miss Susie Brady.

The school is a mission of the local Presbyterian Church. Nine members of this school are employees of the mill. Six men go there and they report an average attendance of about 50. This is one of the most progressive of our missions. The group going to Cornelius is about the next largest, there being five men. This also has a large attendance and is another progressive school. Two go to Brawley’s, about four miles beyond Mooresville. This was established by Davidson students several years ago and someone from the college has been going there ever since. It is now a mission of the First Presbyterian Church of Mooresville. A group of four, under A. M. Martin, goes to the convict camp, located near Cornelius. They report that the convicts take a great interest and encouraging results are obtained. They always have a full attendance. Mr. Jackson has charge of the work at the mill chapel, of which Marion Murray is student superintendent.Nevers' broken field running of Pearce was the feature for P.C. The playing of the Davidson backfield was like a smooth-running piece of machinery. In the line, Summers was a veritable stone wall. It was very seldom that the Davidson line was penetrated. Only once was the Davidson goal in danger. P.C. missed a field goal by inches. Davidson then marched straight up the field to the 10-yard line. Then Popsy Hunt won fame by putting the ball straight between the posts for a field goal.

The next Saturday, Davidson was to meet the strong V.P.I. team. Of course, the odds were against the Wildcats. The whole week was spent in working up a strong defense. When the team left Friday morning at 6:30, they were given a rousing send-off. And after all the dust of battle had settled, V.P.I. was on the long end of a 7 to 0 score. That score was obtained by an intercepted pass on the V.P.I.'s 15-yard line and an 85-yard run. From all reports, Davidson outplayed Tech on the defensive and presented an unlooked-for offensive, taking the ball down the field to the Tech 15-yard line time after time, only to lose the ball.

Next Saturday, we play Citadel on Richardson field. We don’t mean to be confident, but we must have that game. Citadel beat Erskine last Saturday 26 to 0. They are strong in South Carolina, ranking close to Citadel. Then we play Wake Forest in Charlotte on the 20th. Heckman is not in harness this year. Heretofore, he has been a Davidson nemesis, but it will take more than a nemesis to stop the Wildcats this year. From all reports, State presents a strong defense, holding Penn State to a 16 to 0 score.

"Y" SUNDAY SCHOOL WORK
Every year the Y.M.C.A. sends student deputations to the Mission Sunday Schools in this community. Julian Briggs has charge of this department and already has five deputations going out every Sunday. He says that he expects to organize two more in a short while. About 20 or 25 students are engaged in the work at present. Possibly the largest group is that which goes to Shearer Chapel, about four miles out.

The home of Captain and Mrs. Murray H. Ellis, on Concord Street, was the scene of a most delightful affair on Friday afternoon between 3:30 and 6:00, when Miss Orrie Steele and Mrs. Ellis entertained in honor of Miss Ruby Maxwell, sister of Mrs. Ellis, and Miss Jessie Stokes, of Meadville, Tenn. These young ladies will be the guests of Mrs. Ellis through the month of October. The house was attractively decorated with radiant fall flowers. Baskets of dahlias and zinnias adorned the hall, parlor, and sitting room. Silver candlesticks holding yellow tapers furnished light for the occasion. Refreshments of brick ice cream and cake, mints, and almonds were served. Those assisting in entertaining were Mrs. H.B. Arbuckle, Mrs. Fred Hengeveld, Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum, Mrs. K.J. Foreman, and Misses Eloise Martin, Dorothy Finlayson, Ellen Black, Margaret Adams, and Maude Vinson. A total of about 70 guests attended the charming social event.

The annual praise meeting and Rally Day exercises of the Woman's Auxiliary were held in the basement of the church last Thursday evening. The meeting was addressed by Miss Edmonia Martin, a missionary to Brazil. Miss Martin is a cousin of Doctor Martin and Mrs. Archie Currie. Mr. Williams, the “Y” secretary, brought Mrs. Williams and their child from Montreat Thursday. Mrs. Farman, Mrs. Williams’ mother, will be with them this winter in their apartment at the home of Mrs. F.H. Whitaker.

On Thursday, Mrs. Fraser Hood returned from visits in Memphis and Mississippi. Doctor and Mrs. Tompkins motored down from Roanoke last week and visited Doctor and Mrs. Lingle. Mrs. R.A. Dunn was a guest of Dr. Martin last week. Mrs. Dunn was here with Mr. Dunn at the recent meeting of the executive committee.

Mrs. W.H. Wooten entertained at her home Tuesday evening in honor of Miss Mildred Hobbs and Mr. James M. Blue, whose wedding takes place in October. Bridge and rook were played at five tables. Miss Susie Brady and Mr. Fred Hengeveld made the highest scores. The hostess, assisted by her sisters, Mrs. J.A. White, of Mooresville, and Mrs. W.N. Thompson, of Charlotte, served an elaborate salad course.

CALENDAR
THURSDAY—
7:30—Phi Society meeting.
7:30—Eumenean Society meeting.

FRIDAY NIGHT—
7:30—Movies, “Three Wise Fools.”

SATURDAY—
3:30—Football, Citadel vs. Davidson.
7:30—Stunt Night.

SUNDAY—
11:00—Morning Services.
6:15—“Y” meeting.
7:30—Evening Services.

MONDAY—
3:30—Football practice.

TUESDAY—
7:30—Metrophilian.
7:30—Pandemic.

WEDNESDAY—
7:30—Meeting of Court of Control.

"TRIFLING WITH HONOR"
Under The Strand, BROADWAY
Thursday and Friday
A Sizzling Hot Baseball Story

Always Something Good to Eat
NEW YORK CAFE

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

DROP IN—
For The Best Eats In Town
THE MISSES SCHOFIELD

COMPLETE LINE
SILK-WOOL HOSIERY
A.C. McINTYRE
Box 123

DAVIS
They are the Best

GALLANT REPRESENTING
The Ben-Vonde Co.
N.C. DRY CLEANERS AND DYERS
Called for Monday Nights