JUNIOR SPEAKING ISSUE 24 THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. V THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923. No. 22

COURT OF CONTROL WORKING FAITHFULLY WITH FRESHMEN
More Than Twenty Cases Handled in Past Two Weeks’ Meetings.
MAN-TO-MAN TALKS
Substitute for Hazing Meets Approval of Visitors.

During the past two weeks, the Court of Control has held two meetings and has handled the cases of twenty-odd
freshmen. Only a few of these men have been campused and, with the exception of a few, the student body
as a whole is unaware of the fact that other men have been called before that organization. This is the
case week after week, for the past two weeks have been average weeks so far as that body is concerned.
They furnish the average numbers of freshmen who have to appear before the meetings. The comparatively small number of freshmen
campused seems to point to the fact that comparatively few men of that class are being dealt with. But such
is not the case. In fact, if the Court were needed only as a means of campusing freshmen, such an
organization as it now exists would be unnecessary. For every man campused, eight men appear before the Court and are
the recipients of straight man-to-man talks. In most cases, the men who do the reporting specify that this be the
action taken by the Court and whenever such is the case, unless there (Continued on Page 7)

FOREIGN FINANCIAL STATUS LECTURED ON BY MR. HIGGS
Former Secretary to English Prime Minister Speaks Before Students.

Mr. Henry Higgs, of the University of London, gave a highly illuminating talk on the Financial Situation in Europe before
the student body and townspeople gathered in Shearer Hall last Thursday night. Mr. Higgs, a well-known English economist, was formerly
private secretary to the English prime minister, and his words on any economic question bear the stamp of authority. Mr.
Higgs came to Davidson as the guest of the International Relations Club combined with the College lecture program. The task
of interesting college men in the financial situation of Europe was no easy one, but Mr. Higgs went at the
matter skillfully, and beginning with an apt analogy between the finances of an individual and those of a nation, he
won the attention of his audience. After explaining the elemental principles of international exchange and the fluctuations of currency, Mr.
Higgs proceeded to a discussion of the economic situation in the principal European states. The points of the talk were
accompanied with many striking anecdotes that drew more than one laugh from the audience. In speaking of the situation in
England, Mr. Higgs stressed the seriousness of the unemployment and the race between prices and wages. The discussion of the
state (Continued on Page 7)

Delta Pi Kappa
At a recent meeting of the Delta Pi Kappa Journalistic fraternity, invitations were issued to the following men: W. Z.
Bradford; W. K. McCain; H. B. Price; C. M. McIlwaine. During the past year, all of the above men have
been interested in the Davidsonian and have distinguished themselves for their ability along journalistic lines. Bradford has developed the press
bureau until the articles sent by that department are now published in almost every paper in the state. McCain has
handled the circulation department of the Davidsonian very successfully despite the fact that since the burning of Chambers he has
had no office in which to work. Both Price and McIlwaine have done excellent work as members of the Reporter's
Club.

TRACK TIME TRIALS BRING FORTH SEVERAL NEW STARS
Spec McConnell and Nappy Davis Surprise Onlookers by Their Fast Time.
PROSPECTS PROMISING
Low Hurdles and Broad Jump Present the Weakest Spot On the Team.

Track time trials were held in nearly all events last Saturday and despite the poor conditions of the track, the
times were fast. All the men showed a great improvement over their past performances and Wildcat track stock reached new
laurels. Several new men were discovered who give promise of becoming real stars on the circular circuit. Spec McConnell surprised
everyone when he opened up a big lead on the first lap of the mile, and kept well in front
throughout. Although his time in the 440 was a fraction of a second slower than Gallaway’s, Nappy Davis circled the
field at a rapid rate and assured Coach Grey of two good men in this event. The combination of Striebeck
and Gracy on the high hurdles will be a hard one to beat, as well as the Hendrix and Smith
pair in the dashes. Dick seems capable of handling the half mile and McConnell, Williford, and Selser will furnish plenty
of opposition in the distance runs. In the field (Continued on Page 10)

FRATERNITY TEA
According to a recent decision of the committee on Junior Speaking, the fraternities will be hosts to the Student Body
at an informal Tea at five o'clock Saturday afternoon. Although this is a new feature at Davidson, it is believed
that it will prove to be one of the most enjoyable occasions during the weekend. The committee has worked to
an exhaustive degree to make this thing a success and there is no reason why it should not be if
everyone cooperates with the Junior Class. The Pink Tea, as it is called, is to take the place of the
usual Fraternity Reception. Therefore, the entire Student Body is invited to visit the various halls between the hours of five
and six-thirty. Those who have girls are especially invited at that hour.

ELIAS FAISON,
Captain of the 1924 Wildcat Football Team and President of the Junior Class.

CABARET AT GYM PROMISES TO BE SPEAKING’S FEATURE
Many Special Acts to be Included In a Varied Program.

Coming as a climax to Junior Week, the Black Cat Cabaret will present a program Saturday night that bears the
names of many of the world’s greatest artists. These artists have been engaged at great expense by the Junior Class
and are expected to put on a great entertainment. Hop Beaver has been chosen as master of ceremonies and, as
proprietor of the Black Cat Cabaret, will start his program promptly at eight-thirty.Music will be furnished by the Simpson Symphony
Orchestra of Bucharest, Hungary, Elkins Original Spanish Serenaders of Barcelona; and a Grand opera quartet. Tubby and Piggy, the famous
Congo Comedians, will portray, in an original song and dialogue, their hard luck in Russia, while three of the world’s
best dancers will give an exhibition of the latest Parisian and Russian steps. Addresses by two of the greatest followers
of the Taurian art and some African harp music will complete the program. The program in detail is as follows:

1. Overture, La Chasse Infernale—Miszkowski, Simpson Symphony Orchestra.
2. La Seranata Espina, Original Spanish Serenaders.
3. Les Danses d’Aujourdhui, Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn.
4. Le Sanambulus, Prof. Rachmaninoff, M. A., Ph. D., L. L. D.
5. Tubby and Piggy, Congo Comedians.

(Continued on Page 10)

New Assistants

W. M. Heston and J. S. Smith were elected by the student body Monday morning to serve as assistant managers
during the present season. These two men survived from a ballot of ten men, nominated by the Athletic Council. One
of the two will be chosen at the end of the season to succeed W. T. Elliott, manager. The other
nominees were: Keels, A. C., Brown, C. V., Price, P., Chipman, D. J., Story, P. J., Allison, O. J., McKellan,
E. M., Shaw, F. S. The election was run by eliminating five men, and then choosing the two highest from
the remaining five. Both Heston and Smith are well qualified for their positions after three years of business training at
Davidson.

PRELIMINARIES DETERMINE DEBATERS FOR FIRST MEET

Cox, Elkins, and Hillhouse, with Baldwin as Alternate, Are New Men Selected

TRINITY IS OPPONENT

Twelve Men Stage Best Preliminary Held At Davidson in Recent Years.

Three Juniors, Cox, Elkins and Hillhouse, with Baldwin as alternate, won places last Friday night in the intercollegiate preliminaries for
the Trinity debate which takes place in Shearer Hall on the evening of April 27. These men won out over
a field of eleven contestants engaged in one of the best intercollegiate preliminaries in recent years. The subject for the
debate with Trinity, and the one which was debated Friday night is: Resolved, That the issuance of tax-exempt securities should
be prohibited by a Constitutional Amendment. Davidson’s team will defend the negative of this subject. The men who have been
chosen as (Continued on Page 10)

NEW CATALOG

The Davidson College Catalogue for 1923-24 has just returned from the printer and the copies are now being distributed from
the book room. The catalogue contains the usual features, with a few additions. The birds-eye view of the campus is
used for a frontispiece, which is followed by the college calendar for 1923-24. The catalogue opens with the historical sketch
of the college. Then come the list of college officers, requirements for admission, courses of instruction, general regulations, equipment, expenses,
and finally, the catalogue of students. In connection with the last, it is interesting to note that this year there
are listed 555 students, while last year there were only 512. The catalogue mentions the installation of the Phi Beta
Kappa Honorary Fraternity, and devotes a brief paragraph to its description. Mention is made under the heading of Equipment, of
the new Central Heating plant, which has recently been completed. Information is given about dormitories which should prove helpful to
new men. The only additional course listed is that of Public Speaking, which was installed this year, but was not
listed in the last year’s catalogue.

DRAMATIC CLUB OFFERS ONE ACT PLAY DURING SPEAKING

Local Authors Write Plays That Will be Presented Friday.

SPEAKING FEATURE

Professors Erwin and Wagner Direct Rehearsals.

One of the biggest events of Junior Speaking will be the presentation of three one-act plays by members of the
Dramatic Club, Friday night. All the plays to be given are written by members of the Club, and are an
example of the many things it is doing for the author and actor along dramatic lines. The first of the
plays to be given is entitled, I Do, by E. T. Woolfolk, president of the Club. This is a comedy
of modern life, filled with thrills and laughter. The (Continued on Page 10)

COACH BUCK HAS DIFFICULT TASK CHOOSING FIRST NINE

Varsity Defeats Scrubs, 3-2 In Hotly Contested Practice Game.

Taking advantage of the mild clear weather that followed the slight cold snap, the various Wildcat baseball candidates have been
putting forth every effort to land a berth on the formidable nine that is being shaped. Coach “Buck” Currie, although
having the difficulty of picking almost an entirely new team, has been choosing the cats from the kittens with extreme
care. The positions have been pretty well filled; McKay and Gus Bachman are scrapping it out for second while Marrow
and Vance seem to be rivals for the right field position. The boys are all pounding the ball with more
and more accuracy as the days go by. With the advent of the thirtieth they should face Oak Ridge and
make the other teams in the Carolinas and Virginias fight hard for a decision. Saturday afternoon, among the other athletic
events that took place, there was an eight-inning practice game between the varsity and the scrubs, resulting in a 3-2
victory for the varsity. Both teams played in mid-season form and sent their stock soaring. The line-up of the first
team consisted of Brice, catcher, Crawford, McKay and Covington in charge of the bases, with Alford, S. at short; the
outer gardens were in the hands of Alford, F., Richards and Marrow, while the pitching was handled by Sonells and
McLaughlin. On the second team, Black took his usual position behind the bat, while Smith, J. I., Bachman, A., Simpson
and Long took charge of the infield. The fielders consisted of Robins, Blue and Wells. Hunter and Bousher occupied the
mound. Richards, Crawford, and Brice scored for the varsity. Wells and Black obtained the two runs for the second team
after knocking out a triple and long double. These two hits featured the afternoon’s practice.

Oak Ridge Friday and Saturday! A WILDCAT WELCOME! GREETINGS!
