THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

BOGGY BRAES ARE NOW BEAUTIFUL BOULEVARDS

Those who are Juniors and Seniors in this old school, so dear to the hearts of all students and alumni,
find it very easy indeed to rehearse in their minds the days when they were beginning their college career. They
came here from most all quarters of the globe and contemplated settling down to a life of academic ease for
four years, following just such pursuits as most appealed to them. But many of those young lads, freshmen indeed, very
early became aware of the fact that a life of confinement within the dormitories and within the beautiful little town
of Davidson was a bit more than they had dreamed of. Visions of adventure began early to encroach upon their
quiet slumbers and in their dreams they could see themselves in other towns, probably Charlotte or Statesville. Attractions are many
in both these towns nestled in the quietude of the North Carolina Piedmont hills. Surely there are attractions in each
of these towns. Is there not a Meyers Park, and a most charming little castle of Queens in the Queen
city, and is there not a domicile of fair damsels so called for the highest peak of the east side
of that mighty river dividing the United States into halves, in that village, the king of Iredell?

These young boys dreamed of such places at night and when they awoke they determined to make their dreams come
true. So off they started, hoping to arrive at these homes of their lady love. On they trodded through the
mud and slick clay for indeed it had been raining and they almost mired up to their knees.

"'Tis bad," said one, "that we must undergo such unthought of difficulties to be able to see her whom we
love."

"True you are, my pal," proclaimed the other, "Surely some day there shall be a great highway o'er this territory,
across which we are attempting to travel. It seems as though the Highway Commission should bear in mind the fact
that much traffic passes this way and give us a fine macadam road."

That was two years ago. These two Freshmen plodding their way to Mooresville, or Statesville, or Charlotte saw visions of
a great highway and now they see their visions a reality. Today if one wishes to visit any of these
places he need not go by way of Concord, Beatty's Ford, Lincolnton, or other out of the way places but
can mount the highway and it is only a matter of a few minutes till the distance is in the
rear. One no longer sees Freshmen stuck up to their knees in the mud, nor does one see horses sunk
in the mud raising their heads upward struggling for breath, nor are Fords abandoned by their owners because of terrible
roads.

"The Highway Commission did give us a highway and it is ours," are the words of a great Davidsonian.

PRESS ASSOCIATION TO PUBLISH SHORT STORIES

The short-story committee of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association is now busy formulating plans for the stories that are
to compose the larger part of the Anthology of North Carolina. This volume will contain approximately one hundred and fifty
pages of reading matter of ten or twelve of the best short stories submitted from the state. This plan was
first adopted last spring at the meeting of the Press Association and at present it is hoped that the Anthology
will be off the press by April. At this time specifications for bids are being sent to publishers and the
book will go to press when these details are settled. This new phase of literary work should promote State-wide interest
in short-story writing. Any bona fide member of a North Carolina College may submit one or more short stories not
to exceed six thousand words in length. Randolph Jones is corresponding with the editors of various college publications throughout the
State and each college in the State is expected to turn in at least one story. All stories must be
turned in by December 15th to the editors of the respective college magazines. To stimulate interest a prize of $50
will be awarded for the best story according to the decision of the judges. The committee expects to publish approximately
a thousand copies of the Anthology and the success of this undertaking will mark a new phase of the State
collegiate work in literary lines.

Biddle Quintet Gives Musical Program Of Negro Spirituals and Old Melodies

Readings and Plantation Songs Delight Large Audience

The musical program rendered in Shearer Hall by Johnson C. Smith University Quintet Friday evening November second, proved to be
the rarest treat of the season. The superb and soulful interpretation of the time-honored Negro Spirituals and melodies, with Indian
songs and classical selections generously interspersed, stirred the audience in Shearer Hall and got closer to the hearts of the
leaders than anything has in many a day.

"Oh Rocks Don't Fall On Me," the first number on the program, took the house by storm, so that the
very foundations of the old building shook with the prolonged applause, but when the next number was well under way,
"Couldn't Hear Nobody Pray," that weird, old-time, heart-stirring, soul-inspiring spiritual, the entire audience was carried back to plantation days, and
it is reported that quite a few got religion. After this followed the favorite, "Kentucky Babe," and one that was
new to most of the audience, "De Old Ark's A-Moverin." "By The Waters of Minnetonka," the well-beloved Indian song, the
song of a brave of the Sun tribe and a maid of the Moon tribe, which they sang as they
walked out into the waters of Minnetonka to their death, thus to escape separate deaths, was beautifully sung as a
solo. After the little tenor had resumed his place, the quintet let us know with no uncertain sound that they
were "Walkin' In De Light."

Following this came a treat which was as novel and appealing as it was new to the audience. "Hand Me
Down A Silver Trumpet, Gabriel!" The audience could scarcely keep from joining in the refrain:

Hand it down,
Throw it down,
Any way to git it down,
Gabriel!

The next delight that was in store was a reading, "The Party," written by Paul Lawrence Dunbar, the great negro
poet, and read by Mr. Bryan, who had till then taken rather a back seat. The story was vividly and
graphically told and so heartily applauded that "Little Gal" was given also before the reader could sit down. After this
breathing spell the quintet came back strong in the second half with the "Bill of Fare" making the whole audience
famish with hunger. One of the most popular numbers on the program, judging from the number of encores it occasioned,
was the piano solo. Far departed from the spirit of the old spirituals as was the jazz which the pianist
played, it still possessed something in common with them, and was undoubtedly exceedingly well appreciated. It is doubtful if the
old piano used every morning in chapel, ever was led on such a dance before. "Who Will Be A Witness?"
Following "Old Black Joe," and a solo "Beloved It Is Morn," occasioned unbounded delight and enthusiasm, as it always has.
Following this was another enjoyable favorite, "Ezekiel Saw De Wheel," and as the quintet sang the audience were quite sure
that 'way up in the middle of the air,' they could see the wheel too, and a wheel within the
wheel. After another most vivid reading from Kipling, and "Lead Kindly Light," the quintet sang in conclusion, "Swing Low Sweet
Chariot," perhaps the best known of all negro spirituals, but at the same time the best beloved of them all.

Quite a few very interesting books have been added to the Library recently. Among these are some of the best
recent novels and a number of volumes of delightful essays and sketches. A book which defies classification is "Woodrow Wilson
and World Settlement," by Ray Stannard Baker. Mr. Baker is especially able to deal with this subject, as he sorted
and classified President Wilson's notes and correspondence after his return from Versailles. Among the novels added, "The Covered Wagon," by
Emerson Hough, and "The Guest," by Pio Baroja, are among the best. The former is a delightful romance of Pioneer
days, while the latter is a story of life in Madrid by Spain’s greatest novelist. "Contemporary Spanish Dramatists," a translation
of modern plays by noted Spanish writers, is a book that will be useful and interesting to anyone.Studying the modern
drama, "The Tocsin of Revolt" is a volume of essays in which are gathered together the recent writings of Brander
Matthews on present-day literature and social discussions. "American Nights Entertainment," by Grant Overton, contains sketches of the entertaining writers of
modern America.

Great Men

ALLEN HURD NEW HEAD OF REPORTERS’ ORGANIZATION

At the last meeting of the Reporters Club held on the night of Nov. 2, Allan Hurd was elected President.
Hurd succeeds D. B. Walthall, who had to resign due to an excess of outside work. Walthall had served since
last year and has filled the office admirably. The newly elected President is a prominent Davidson man who has for
a long time been in journalistic work. At present, he holds the office of Business Manager of the Magazine in
addition to his work in the service department of the Davidsonian. He is a man whom the entire Reporters Club
is looking to keep up the high-grade work of that organization. He is a recently elected member of Delta Pi
Kappa journalistic fraternity.

"Prophets of a New Era," by Newell Dwight Hillis, is a very interesting series of essays about the lives of
great men. Among those mentioned are Dante, Milton, William the Silent, and John Wesley.

FIVE NEW BOOKS ADDED TO LIBRARY SHELVES

The following books have recently been added to the college library:

1. "The Behavior of Crowds"—By Everett Dean Martin. In this book, the author takes one behind the scenes and shows
the crowds in the drama—or comedy of life. With ruthless candor, absolute impartiality, and humor, he examines humanity wherever he
finds it massed. In other words, it is an X-ray of the mass mind.

2. "Nature in American Literature"—By Norman Foerster. The author here gives an able study of nine prominent American writers, with
particular reference to the love and knowledge of nature displayed in their work. He analyzes the work of the poets
Bryant, Whittier, Lowell, Whitman, and Lanier, and of the prose writers Emerson, Thoreau, John Muir, and John Burroughs, and also
includes a keen discussion of the character and philosophy of each of the writers under consideration.

3. "French Literature During the Last Half Century"—By J. W. Cunliffe and Pierre de Bacourt. To all those interested in
contemporary literature, this volume, written by two Columbia professors who have first-hand information about modern French life and thought, affords
help and guidance not to be obtained in any other book.

4. "Americans"—By Stuart P. Sherman. The author shows a realization of the perversions that make nationalism maleficent and much of
American civilization a grotesque and hideous sham. But he shows, too, that there is another America, another nationalism—the spirit of
the essential America as the clear-eyed among our poets and statesmen have seen her.

5. "The Enjoyment of Architecture"—By Talbot F. Hamilton. Mr. Hamilton has vitalized his subject with his own enthusiasm and introduced
architecture as a living art. This book is of considerable practical value in that it will help one to understand
why a building is beautiful or where it is lacking, and make one acquainted with the elements and underlying principles
of all the architecture seen.

VOLUNTEERS DISCUSS ALL PHASES OF PERSONAL WORK

The Student Volunteer Band held a well-attended meeting in Shearer Hall Sunday night immediately after the Y. M. C. A.
service. A. C. Slaymaker led the meeting, the topic of which was: Personal Work. The scripture lesson was taken from
I Timothy 2. Three interesting and appealing talks were given. In the first of these, "Why We Should Do Personal
Work," T. C. Barr emphasized the fact that above all it is Christ’s will that all of his followers do
personal work. In the second, A. P. Hudgins, speaking on "How Can We Do Personal Work?" showed that we prove
ourselves friends of those in need of a Savior, and lead them to Christ. In the third talk on "With
Whom Should We Do Personal Work," F. A. Hopkins said that every class of people who does not believe in
Christ as their own personal Savior should be approached by Christians in an earnest effort to lead them to the
one true God. After these talks, A. P. Hudgins presided over a short business meeting.

BIBLE CLASSES CONSIDER COLLEGE EXPENSE ACCOUNTS

The subject discussed in the Bible classes last Sunday morning was An Expense Account. It was shown that everyone has
a certain amount entrusted to him and that he is to spend it wisely and not bury it as was
the talent. The trust fund that every college student has is used as he sees fit. In college, there are
numerous calls for money. There are the fixed necessary expenses and the incidental necessary ones, both of which are unavoidable.
Under these two heads come tuition, board, books, campus tax, and other fees, all of which are necessary. There are
two other kinds of expenses, however, that are not necessary, namely, the fixed desirable expenses and luxuries. Moving pictures, lyceums,
and the Rise are things for which a great many students spend money that is not absolutely essential. It cannot
be said, however, that luxuries to a limited amount are injurious to a fellow in college or anywhere else. Christ
himself was not opposed to luxuries. When He was crucified, the garment He wore was so valuable that it was
not destroyed as was generally the case. Also, the bathing of Christ's feet with the expensive ointment showed that He
was not opposed to luxuries but that He did not want man to be a servant to money. What a
student spends his money on is a good index to his character, it was pointed out. If he has money,
he should spend it on something permanent and worthwhile. Although a student should not be extravagant, he should not be
penurious. No man has a right to hoard or squander his money. To be stingy with money is like the
burying of the talent. It was further shown that the budget and the expense account are good things to practice
in college because habits formed in college are sure to stick with a fellow.

BILL HESTON’S CONDITION IS GREATLY IMPROVED

All the students are interested in knowing that Bill Heston is on the road to health again. Quoting from the
Charlotte News of Sunday: “The condition of William Heston, member of the Senior class of Davidson College, who was rushed
to a local hospital last week on account of serious illness, is somewhat improved. Mr. Heston is one of the
most popular men on the Davidson campus and he has many friends in Charlotte. His home is in Atlanta.” Bill
was rushed away to Charlotte before anybody knew he was ill, and it was a cause of distinct anxiety to
the members of the student body when they learned of his serious condition. The crisis has passed and all are
looking forward to his return to the campus. Since his entrance at Davidson, he has made a record that any
ambitious man might envy. Not only in athletic work has he been successful, but he has taken an active part
in the most important of the activities on the Hill. At present, he is editor-in-chief of the Annual, editor of
the Peanut Parcher of the Davidsonian; also a member of the Sigma Upsilon and Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. It
is not known at present just when Bill will come back to Davidson but the best wishes of the student
body go to him for a speedy recovery and an early return.

QUADRENNIAL CONFERENCE OF CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS

The International Quadrennial Conference of Christian Endeavor is to be held at Indianapolis. The representation of each one will use
its full capacity, picking the men with care. At the last meeting of the union, an “Outside of College Volunteer
Union” was discussed and probably it will meet Thanksgiving at the suggested place, Trinity. They hope to gather all of
those “out-of-college” men and women who are interested in the work; colleges will also be represented and a successful conference
is expected. Additional plans were made at the meeting of the Executive Committee of the State Volunteer Union held recently
at Greensboro. The meeting was attended by McBryde and Hudgins from Davidson. Hudgins is the leader of the band leaders
of the State.

Have you paid your subscription? Let’s make the DAVIDSONIAN second to none in the field of college journalism.

“Grab a Root”

Most up-to-date models

Watch for our latest dance and vocal records

PLAYER ROLLS by greatest artists

VICTROLAS

PIANOS

People’s Home Furnishing Co.

FURNITURE

For your hall or room

See us first

MOORESVILLE, N. C.
