4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

SAMUEL ROBERT BRADY
(Continued from page 2)

Davidson, and from the first gave good promise of developing into a first-class football player. Under the tutelage of Fetzer
and Crayton he became one of the most formidable centers in the state, his playing at all times being marked
with steady and accurate passing, and with sure tackles. Low he developed a drive that always drove him into the
enemy’s lines and rarely ever did he miss a tackle. Romefelt, Hammett, McMaster in the line, with Spana, Jack Black
and Johnston in the backfield, made a combination that had few equals for driving power. In the historic season of
1917, when Washington and Lee was defeated 20-7, Sam proved himself a mainstay in the line with his accurate passing
and good tackling. In the defeat handed Carolina, ancient enemy of Davidson, his work was superb, notwithstanding the fact that
the team worked as a machine, well-oiled and easy running. The backfield men generally get most of the credit in
a game, but it is a well-known fact and all backs themselves acknowledge that the game is won or lost
on the line of scrimmage. The linemen rarely ever get the commendation accorded the flashy backs, but more than once
Sam Brady received favorable notice from the press relative to his steady and at times brilliant work. The ’20 Cranks
says: “Shifted from guard to center to fill the vacancy left by Billy Crouch, he proved an able successor and
a mainstay in the line. And always Brady more than did his part.” After graduation from Davidson he held a
position for some length of time with the Southern Express Company, and later with the oil mill of this place.
His position with the bank here was cut short by his untimely death, which happened on the 25th of June,
from the results of an operation for appendicitis.

WILDCAT GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

In Rome a special performance was given for the benefit of the students of the Berry School. An elaborate luncheon
was given Saturday night at Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga., after which a radio concert was given at WSB auditorium,
the Atlanta Journal building. The Glee Club was enthusiastically received at every hand. The Davidson Alumni Association gave an elaborate
luncheon at the Hotel Ansley in honor of the visiting musicians. “Twenty-four college boys from North Carolina came to Atlanta
Saturday and delighted Atlanta music-lovers,” stated Sunday morning, following the Agnes Scott performance, which was “given for the benefit of
thousands of unseen listeners.” Gastonia, N. C., was the last stop on the itinerary. The performance there Monday night terminated
the most successful tour ever made by a Davidson Glee Club. The trip from Gastonia to Davidson was made Monday
night, by automobiles. “The success of the club is due to the training we have received from Mrs. Baker,” is
the sentiment of the entire club. Ted Jones, president and leader, is also accorded the warm praise of the entire
club for the interest and labor he has contributed to make

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS........... Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE.......... Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE.......... Assistant Managing Editor
BRADFORD A. HARRIS.......... Managing Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY............. Athletic Editor
W. C. LAKE.................. Associate Editor
J. M. SELBY................. Exchange Editor
O. J. ALLISON............... Alumni Editor

Business Staff
P. J. STORY................. Subscription Manager
I. M. GARRISON.............. Assistant Circulation Manager
W. S. McALPIN............... Service Manager
W. H. CROMWELL............. Bookkeeper
V. H. TANNER................ Sales Typist
W. R. HOUGH................. Advertising Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN, Manager
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
MARSHALL, C. K.
HURD, A. M., Pres.
MILLHOUSE, J. F.
WHARTON, D. B.
MILTON, W. E.
ROGERS, G. D.
APPLEBY, M.
MONK, C. F.
THOMPSON, J. B.
BOWIE, A. Y.
MORROW, G. M.
SHAW, H. L.
GARRISON, J. M.
O'CONNOR, P.
STOREY, P.
GIBBS, J.
WHITE, H. M.
GREEN, J. L.
PITTS, B.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
RATCHFORD, B. U.
SMITH, C. F.

EDITORIAL

COLLEGE MEN ON BROADWAY

A cast of seventy-five men and “artificial girls,” a private train of five cars and an orchestra of twenty musicians,
will represent the University of Michigan Dramatic Club, the Mimes, at the Metropolitan Opera House, New York, December 18th. The
Mimes has gone into its dramatic program for the year with a rush. The production, Cotton Stockings, represents a cash
outlay of $75,000. Lionel Ames, ’24, leading lady of the musical extravaganza, is so valuable in his dancing exhibitions that
the Mimes has seen fit to insure his legs and arms for $25,000. The book Cotton Stockings is a production
of the Mimes. The music is original, and all the parts, great and small, are taken by amateur undergraduates of
Michigan. The colleges are gaining recognition as leading entertainers of the nation. The Mimes, with its highly interesting musical nonsense,
the Carolina Playmakers, with their original, plaintive folk plays, and other college organizations with original productions are worthy of the
highest commendation. Training in organizations of this type may be considered of inestimable value. It is just as truly a
part of a college education as is the study of the classics, or the geometric theorems. It is another step
toward the broadening of American education.

AN ADVERTISEMENT

The Glee Club will have returned, by the time the Davidsonian comes from the press, from a trip through three
of the most prosperous states of the South. The college musicians have advertised Davidson wonderfully. They have done their work
well, and in doing so have merited the applause of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. The Glee Club will
probably do more toward attracting students to Davidson, and toward keeping the name of the Presbyterian college before the people
of the South, than any other agency in the field this year. Special emphasis was laid at a luncheon given
by the Davidson Alumni Association of Atlanta last week on the fact that Davidson College needs to shove herself more
into the limelight, particularly in Georgia and Florida. The creditable showing made by the Glee Club during its recent tour
would indicate that no better medium can be found than a well-trained musical club. The college authorities and the students
who have backed the movement for a trained club this year deserve the highest commendation. They have done much to
broadcast the name and fame of Davidson.

The toast to V. M. I., appearing on the front page of the V. P. I. paper last week, speaks
well for the spirit of the Gobblers. The Techs went down before the V. M. I. cadets in the annual
football clash, but when the smoke had cleared and the two teams had left the field, the Gobblers' colors were
flying on a par with those of the Cadets. The spirit of the losing team never fell, and the warm
friendship that exists between the two schools was not lessened by a jot or tittle. V. P. I., in her
toast to V. M. I., displays the true spirit of intercollegiate sportsmanship.

The debating team that will represent Davidson when the Wildcats clash in forensic struggle with Washington and Lee Friday night
in Shearer Hall, represents every man on the Davidson campus. The least that can be done for the varsity debaters
is to back them with a one hundred percent attendance Friday night.

Basketball will be coming to the front with the commencement of activities after the Christmas holidays. Again the spirit of
Old Davidson must assert itself. Every team turned out at Davidson is a Davidson team, and every man at Davidson
is a part of that team. If he is not doing his part in uniform, his place is on the
sideline and his duty is—Spirit!

The entertainment committee reported that arrangements for a feed on Saturday night had been made. The deputation committee announced that
Hayden Hollingsworth had gone to Shearer chapel to conduct a service there. A few songs were sung and the meeting
was short and informal. The expected speaker, Rev. Mr. Klontz, of the Presbyterian Church at Cornelius, was unable to meet
with the Ministerial Band on Sunday afternoon.The concert tour was a success. C. V. Brown, business manager, and J. H.
Davis, advance manager, ably performed the business duties connected with the trip. The personnel of the club in full follows:

Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, director.
W. T. Jones, president.
C. V. Brown, Jr., manager.
J. H. Davis, advance manager.

First Tenor—Watt McCain, W. A. McCain, C. V. Brown, Jr., F. R. Hudson, B. T. Crayton.
Second Tenor—O. J. Allison, J. W. Simpson, M. C. Davis, F. R. Montgomery, J. S. McRae, W. H. Crane.
Bass—L. D. Elkins, G. R. Dupuy, J. L. Green, J. R. Maxwell, T. C. Barr, B. F. Earnest.
Accompanist—W. W. Purdy.
Quartet—Watt McCain, G. R. W. Ted Jones, L. D. Elkins.
Symphony Orchestra—G. R. Dupuy, J. Dupuy, J. H. Patton, J. S. McRae, W. H. Crane, J. R. Earnest, W. W.
Purdy, T. C. Barr.
Dixie Novelty Seven—G. R. Dupuy, J. H. Patton, M. C. Davis, J. R. Earnest, W. W. Purdy.

Reports from two committees were received. The sentence prayers closed the meeting. The fifth concert was held in the fall
of 1916. Sam Brady entered.

Basketball practice is now going on in earnest. A squad of 25 men reported to Coach Corboy Monday afternoon, and
each man is determined to win a place on the varsity. Captain Bob Brown, Alph Brown, Mark McAdams, Ghee Fix,
and Jesse Barker are the letter men who are striving to win places on the team. Many high school players
are showing up in fine style. Elon’s prospects for a winning team are very bright. Hill, Voliva, and Norman, members
of this year's Freshman class, are showing much promise, and under the watchful eye of Coach Corboy should develop quickly.—Maroon
and Gold.

No Man’s Land
All men laugh at, not with, a monkey. Don't be a monkey. FOR and not ON the world. Build men
and incidentally fortunes. Why be the smallest, raggedest black “wharf-rat” on the Mobile docks can spot you and beat you
to a frazzle. Live you build profane? Do not glory in brawn, Behold the ox. It is easy to be
facetious; but it is noble to be genuine. You may not see anything in Shakespeare’s plays. Perhaps it is not
Shakespeare’s fault. Some men cannot see the glory of the Milky Way because of the White Way.—Firing Line.

The Tiger
Both Davidson and Clemson have recently had the pleasure of hearing Mr. Skeyhill, the young Australian ex-soldier who spoke at
Agnes Scott last year. We congratulate Atlanta. They sang their way into the hearts of Atlanta. The Atlanta Journal knows
what to say. Mr. Skeyhill knows.

The honor system at Princeton is so well developed that students may even take their examination papers to their rooms
and write out their answers in absolute privacy.—The Technique.

Spanish Drama
Act I: Bull, two toreadors.
Act II: Bull, one toreador.
Act III: Bull.—Exchange.

We know of nothing that will show the rise that Wake Forest has taken since the advent of Garrity as
well as an inverted comparison with the German mark.—Old Gold and Black.

A stadium with a seating capacity of 12,000 is now under construction at V. P. I. It will consist, when
finished, of the usual quarter-mile track surrounding a football field and baseball diamond, with concrete seats for the spectators, which
will slope up from the level of the field to a height of 20 feet and rest on a sloping
embankment. A unique feature will be a driveway immediately behind the bleachers from which spectators seated in their cars can
look down on the field over the heads of those in the bleachers. It will be christened when V. P.
I. meets in 1924.—Exchange.

The Duke brothers have donated $50,000 to Elon College for a science building as a memorial to their mother. It
is to be called the Artelia Roney Duke Science Building in honor of Mrs. Duke, who was formerly an Alamance
County daughter.—Exchange.

On account of the lack of winter sports, the University of Florida is introducing several new games to its student
body this winter. Besides basketball, which has been the only winter sport in the past, lacrosse, field hockey, cage ball,
and scrimmage ball will be played.—Ex.

Dr. H. L. Smith has just returned from Richmond where he was one of the guests and chief speakers of
the convention for the centennial celebration of the promulgation of the Monroe Doctrine.

Did You Know That
At one time Davidson boasted of a “Boating Club?” The necessary aqua to furnish support for the boats existed in
the form of an artificial lake of several acres in extent called Lake Wiley, on what is now part of
the Golf Course. But one spring the dam broke and the lake quickly disappeared. The Davidson College Magazine says of
the misfortune: “There is no dam by the lake site and no lake by a dam site!” And the annual
for that year carries a pathetic poem written on the college’s bereavement, one stanza of which is:
“O Wiley dear, sweet Wiley fair
Of glassy bosom, say
How could you in your cold heart dare
To run from us away?”

One session the student body was so large that, though they put four boys to the room, it could not
be accommodated in the dormitories? Against all previous expectations the student body took a sudden jump to the record enrollment
of 67. Those students not fortunate enough to get rooms were allowed to construct for themselves one-room shacks out of
such lumber as they could find, with the additional privilege of selling these at the end of their college course.

Manual labor was originally part of the course of instruction? It was not an elective course either. The students cleared
off the campus, cultivated the college farm, ran a blacksmith shop, etc. But the ringing of the bell at any
time was a signal for the students to stop and return to their rooms. One day some students tied a
pig to the bell rope with enough corn to keep him contented until they all got to the fields. After
the corn gave out...

Chapel used to come before breakfast? The first bell rang 15 minutes before sunrise? Is it any wonder, then, that
one night the bell tower was mysteriously burned down and the bell carried off to the woods?

It was a major from West Point that brought to Davidson the present system of church and chapel attendance? But,
he was an excellent instructor of Mathematics.

One time, over in the chemical laboratory, the instructor, still a member of the faculty, became annoyed over some talking
in the room. “Gentlemen!” he cried and smote the desk with the palm of his hand, four bottles falling immediately
from off their shelves. “Do you know,”—and the window panes rattled as from an explosion—“that it is those that make
the most noise that amount to the least in this world!”

SANDLAPPERS PLAN FEED AND IMPORTANT MEETING
The South Carolina Club will hold a feed Tuesday, December 18th, in Phi Hall to discuss the plans for getting
high school students of South Carolina interested in Davidson College. At the last feed held earlier in the fall it
was decided by the members to have another feed at a later date to discuss the possibility of getting high
school students to come to Davidson. South Carolina has always been well represented at Davidson College and it is the
intention of the South Carolina Club that the same grade of students continue to come here from that state. During
the Christmas holidays the members of the club will endeavor to line up the high school students for Davidson. When
the business part of the meeting has been completed a feed will follow. A tempting feed is promised by the
committee. There will be plenty of peanuts for Rube Curdts who claims to be “the pride” of Greenville. The South
Carolina Club, under the leadership of Johnny Smith, has enjoyed one of its most prosperous years. Every South Carolinian is
striving to keep his state well represented at Davidson. The officers of the club this year are Johnny Smith, president;
Brown McCallum, vice-president; Buck Shaw, secretary and treasurer; and Rube Curdts, janitor. With Johnny to lead us, and Rube Curdts
to eat peanuts and clean up, the destinies of the club seem assured of success.
