THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 28, 1923

GUY JONES

Friends of Guy O. Jones, ’21, of Chattanooga, Tenn., will be grieved to learn of his death on Friday, September
21st. Mr. Jones’ death was caused by a complication of diseases and came after a lingering illness of several months.
He is survived by his father, one brother, Robert C. Jones, Jr., and one sister, Mrs. Elsworth Williams. Since his
graduation from Davidson, Mr. Jones had been connected with the Faucette-Houston Company, of Chattanooga, and had made unusual progress in
his work.

SAM BRADY

Sam Brady, probably the best-known man of Davidson to the student body, died in a hospital at Statesville, North Carolina,
on June 29, 1923. Mr. Brady had been taken to Dr. Long's Sanatorium to undergo an operation for appendicitis, but
so far had the disease taken its grip on him that he died immediately following the operation. While a student
at Davidson, he occupied a position in the heart of every member of the college, both students and faculty, which
was none the less equaled by those who knew him after his graduation in June of 1921. He was a
member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity and played varsity center on the Davidson football squad for the four years he
was in school. Immediately following his graduation, he accepted a position with the Southern Cotton Oil Company and worked with
that concern until about the first of December, 1922, when he returned to Davidson to fill the position of Cashier
in the Bank of Davidson. He is survived by his mother, Mrs. L. R. Brady, and a sister, Miss Susie
Brady, to whom are extended the sincere sympathy of their large circle of friends and the entire student body of
Davidson College who has lost a worthy friend, a sincere counselor, and a deserving alumnus.

MARRIAGES

Neil Edwin Buchanan, ’14, and Miss Polly Merritt, of Morgan, Ga., were married June 27, 1923. They are now at
home, 1310 E. 7th St., Charlotte, N.C.

William J. Love, ’20, and Miss Grace Electa Mills were married at Blue Ridge, N.C. on June 28th.

Charles R. Jenkins, ’17, and Miss Elizabeth Noble Simons were married May 30th, at Columbia, S.C.

Lunsford (“Lump”) Richardson, ’14, and Miss Margaret Winston Blakeney were united in marriage at Rock Hill, S.C., May 17, 1923.

Augustus Leazar, ’11, and Miss Frances Dunn were married in Raleigh, N.C., June 2, 1923.

John Howell Patterson, Jr., ’17, and Miss Naomi Culp, of Washington, D.C., were married on June 16, 1923.

Rev. E. H. Hamilton, ’17, who is remembered as the author of O! Davidson, and Miss Estelle McAlpine were united
in marriage at Karuizawa, Japan, September 3, 1923, the day of the earthquake. They will be at home after October
1st, at Nanking Language School, Nanking, China.

Rev. Chas. J. Hollandsworth, ’20, and Miss Florence Poole, of Mocksville, N.C., were married June 27, 1923. They are now
at home at Buchanan, Va.

Dr. Joash T. Yohannan and Miss Bertha Fiset, of Fall River, Mass., were married on September 5th, at Fall River.

Rev. Robt. H. McClure and Miss Mary Kenner Walker were married June 20th, at Penn Laird, Va.

W. L. Roddey, ex-’22, and Miss Elizabeth Clary were married at Greensboro, N.C., June 20, 1923.

Thomas A. Finley, ’17, and Miss Grace Cochran, of Huntersville, were united in marriage at the Huntersville (N.C.) Presbyterian Church,
June 20, 1923.

Dr. Fred W. Rankin, ’05, is professor of surgery at the University of Louisville. Dr. Rankin recently married Miss Mayo,
daughter of Dr. Charles Mayo, of the Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minn.

Lex Kluttz, ’15, who is on his way home from Beirut, Syria, via Singapore and Hong Kong, was caught in
the earthquake at Yokohama. His name appears among the survivors and the hope is held here by his many friends
that he is not injured.

J. P. Price, ’22, wason the Hill Saturday en route to Baltimore where he will take up his second year
in the medical department at Johns Hopkins.

P. Harvey Biddle, ’22, visited the Hill last week while en route to Richmond, Va., where he will enter Union
Seminary. Dick Richards, ’22, is connected with the Equitable Life Insurance Co., Richmond, Va.

Dr. Walker Moore, ‘06, is professor of pathology in the University of Louisville. “Farmer” Moore was a famous athlete at
Davidson, playing four years on both Varsity baseball and football teams. During the Great War he was a major in
the U.S. Army.

J. J. (Dick) Richards, ’09, is superintendent of the city schools of Camden, S.C. T. M. Lowry, ’22, is teaching
in the city schools of Memphis, Tenn. Dr. J. B. Wharey, ’92, professor of English in the University of Texas,
visited his sister, Mrs. W. R. Grey, here recently. D. H. McAlpine, ’22, is teaching in the Bond School, Montgomery,
Ala. L. T. Mills, ’94, is practicing law at Camden, S.C.

Frank Price, ’15, was married during the summer to Miss Essie McClure. Since their marriage, they have sailed for China
to take up work on the mission field. They reached Japan at the time of the earthquake, but news has
been received of their safety.

The following alumni were spectators at the Elon-Davidson game last Saturday: Dwight Chalmers, ’20; Fred Thompson, ’21; James Steed, ex-’24;
W. P. Nesbit, ’21; R. M. McGirt, ’23; Martin Foil, ’23; R. R. McIlwaine, ’22; Pat Crawford, ’23; Billy Hodgin,
’21; W. J. Cooper, ’23; W. H. Miley, ’20; Jack Holbrook, ex-’24; J. D. Bernhardt, ’23; Bobby Long, ’21; Coach
H. M. Grey, ’18; Jim McCutchen, ’23.

EUMENEANS BEGIN YEAR WITH HEAVY ENLISTMENTS

The Eumenean Literary Society held a call meeting Tuesday night, the 18th. Committees were appointed to canvass the dormitories for
members from the Freshman class. It was decided that they should be initiated the next Monday night. The first regular
meeting was held Thursday night, the 20th. Renewed interest was manifest by everybody. Nearly all the members were present. Ten
upperclassmen, W. E. Miller, T. C. McSwain, A. M. Sample, C. R. Hunter, F. N. Anderson, N. R. Currie, W.
A. McLean, C. V. Brown, L. A. W. Peters, and J. L. Patton wished to join. They were accepted and
received at that time.

An impromptu program was rendered throughout. The query for debate was, Resolved: That Davidson College should establish a store on
the honor system. The affirmative was victoriously upheld by W. T. Jones and T. C. Barr, while the negative was
defended by S. W. Brown and F. A. Hopkins. Speeches were made by four of the Seniors: J. D. Elkins,
president of the society; A. M. Hillhouse, president of the student body; R. R. Jones, president of the Senior class;
and J. F. Smith, the society’s representative on the Forensic Council. A few words were said by Mr. Woods, an
old son of the society, who was visiting his brother of the Freshman class.

The meeting came to a close with a short business session. The society decided to have a cabinet bulletin board
erected in front of the hall in which notices and programs will be posted.

Send in Your Subscriptions to The Davidsonian now!

VICTROLA HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
Andrews Music Store
211-213 N. Tryon Street

S. & W. CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S.C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N.C.

Rain Insurance For Every Occasion
Phone or write
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
