THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

This space was held open to the last minute for a picture of the Davidson College Glee Club, which failed to arrive. We are sorry to disappoint our readers, because the boys are there with the goods, and make a creditable showing.

R. O. T. C. News

The R. O. T. C. Department has been keenly interested in a squad competition which was held on Wednesday, November 21. This competition was participated in by all the companies of the battalion and the men were greatly aroused by this competition. The companies went through the competition with exceptional snap and enthusiasm; the squads showed up especially well in their respective companies. The judges for this squad competition were Cadet Capt. Lake, First Lieut. Kretchman, and Cadet Major Gord, who chose the winning squad according to its merits in general and its conduct as a whole. Each company chose the best squad and from these four best squads, the winner was chosen. The choice fell to the squad whose leader was Corporal Houston of “B” Company. This squad showed up well in executing the manual of arms. This squad will be presented with silver bars to be worn on their sleeves.

On Wednesday, December 5, a platoon competition will take place in which all the companies will compete. In this preliminary competition, the best platoon in each company will be chosen and these four best platoons will then compete for the prize platoon of the battalion. Red and black badges will be presented which makes the competition well worth trying for.

The Rifle team is slowly rounding into form for the spring tournament, in which the local unit will have several meets with teams from other colleges. The Freshmen are firing and several good marksmen have been discovered during the short time in which the shooting pit has been in use. The rifle team is a splendid asset to the college in that it competes with other colleges and establishes a reputation among the colleges of the south with the splendid work which is being done at the local unit of the R. O. T. C.

When Bevo Davis was in Chicago last summer studying to be an expert humbugger, he was being shown through the Chicago Art Museum. His guide stopped before a large picture showing an aquatic scene. “That,” he said, “is the picture of Jonah and the Whale.” “Where's Jonah?” inquired the ever-sharp Bevo as he scanned the canvas for the famous Biblical gastronomic expert. “Oh, he’s in the whale,” remarked the guide as he turned away.

Outweighed all the time, but never outfought. You tell ’em, ’Cats—you gave ’em all you had.

SPECIAL HOLIDAY OFFER

Don’t spend your hard-earned money foolishly and buy for Father, Brother, Husband, or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled or plated watch. Give him the best there is, it is the cheapest in the end, to be remembered forever. Limited quantity, genuine, solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold Plain, engraved, thin or octagon shape. Waltham movements, fifteen jeweled, or Illinois twenty-one jeweled movements. Guarantee enclosed with every watch. Send Post Office order now, don’t delay, and receive watch immediately sent to you, registered, fully insured, packed in expensive, beautiful lined gift case. Act quick. Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, solid-gold, green wrist watches, latest designs, octagon shape models, full jeweled. The very thing that you have wanted, and admired on everybody. Now in the reach of one while they last.

EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO.
4462 Broadway, N. Y. C.
Telephone Bryant 10259

Attention Ladies

Literary Societies

Pandemic

The President of the Pandemic Society announced that in the Junior-Senior debate held November 21, the Pandemic team had defeated the Metrophilians. The Pandemic society holds a record of never being defeated in a debate. The subject of the debate for the evening was, Resolved: That there should be a national and uniform marriage and divorce law. S. W. Moore and Yeargan upheld the affirmative against McAlpine and Franklin. The vote of the house favored the negative, but the judges turned in a two to one vote in favor of the affirmative. H. L. Currie gave some interesting Current Events, after which the Critic’s report was heard, and the meeting adjourned.

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society held its regular meeting Tuesday, November 26th, at which time the installation of officers was the main event of the program. After the new president, R. L. Price, was installed in his office, an extemporaneous debate was held. The subject was, “Resolved: That the laws that all college publications should...be presented to the faculty for approval before publication should be repealed. Those on the affirmative were P. C. Henderson and Singletary; those on the negative, Mathews and Matheson. The decision was in favor of the affirmative. After the debate, Henry Mathews talked on “Campus Events.” In the business meeting, it was decided to have a feed for the society after Christmas. It was also decided to postpone the Fresh-Soph Declaimers contest until Tuesday, December 11th.

Junior Eumenean

The Eumenean Freshman Society met last Tuesday night, November 27, and the following program was rendered. Debate, Resolved, That national uniform marriage and divorce laws should be enacted. Those supporting the affirmative were F. K. Bell and A. W. Christian. The negative was composed of V. S. Broyles and T. F. Anderson. The judges rendered their decision unanimously in favor of the affirmative. Some interesting current events were given by A. W. Alexander, after which the election of new officers was discussed but on account of such a small attendance it was postponed until the next meeting.

“Going to church doesn’t make a man a Christian any more than going to a garage makes him an automobile.”

WHITE AND PITTS HIKE TO MONTREAT FOR VISIT

Fire is of two kinds to a Davidson student; one is the deterioration of matter in such a way that visible combustion takes place, the other the dainty damsel of the fairer and so-called weaker sex. Likewise do the two different fires have the effects characteristic of their natures; the one burns, the other causes the cheeks to burn. One consumes, the other often causes the non-consuming heat that produces the flush in the cheeks known as blushing. In case one grasps hold of the massive structure of some domicile, people are attracted to it; the other has been found to possess the ability to attract from afar persons of the negative persuasion in that two members of the Davidson student body, Henry Martin White and Baynard Pitts, laid aside all college duties for the weekend and hiked over to the land of the sky, near Montreat, where fire and more fire entertained and, seemingly, welcomed them.

When the two of them left Davidson on the afternoon of Saturday, November 10th, they hiked and bummed rides until nightfall caught them 10 miles from Statesville, near the River Catawba. Here they pitched camp by raising one of Captain George's pup tents and drinking a cup of coffee. Early hiking the next morning placed them 10 miles from the campsite. Ride after ride then placed them in Paul Story's town about 3:30 in the afternoon. Having caught a three-mile ride from here, they were once more lifted, this time by a couple recently smitten by the midget god of love, Cupid, and roped in by the unconquerable god, Hymen. With 25 miles to traverse before their altitudinous goal would be attained, these newlyweds chauffeured them to Black Mountain in 45 minutes. The hikers reported thrilling riding. What happened at Montreat will not pass the censorship boards of the Davidsonian. However, it can be said that the picnic hike, with chaperon, over Lookout Mountain, was so thoroughly enjoyed that, before catching the Southern for Davidson, Henry Martin saw fit to reserve a cottage for the summer. Hymen, ye god of marriage vows, no insinuations are cast, but keep your latchstrings hanging out, for you are likely to have callers soon, Billy Sunday.

BELK BROS. CO. Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS

Schloss, Styleplus, and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS

New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS

Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES

Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR

Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c Men’s medium weight unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY

Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c 48c, 85c, $1.00 Men’s silk sox