THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

TWO DAVIDSON PROFESSORS TELL OF EUROPEAN SIGHTS

Grey and McConnell Tell of Trips Through the Old World

Those students and townspeople who attended the lectures in Shearer Hall on Friday, October 5th were privileged to hear that which comes all too seldom in one’s lifetime; that is, to receive at first hand the experiences of those who have traveled in a foreign land. During the past summer two of Davidson's professors spent several months in Europe. Dr. W. R. Grey arrived in Italy the latter part of April and was joined by Mrs. Grey during the summer; Dr. J. M. McConnell, accompanied by his wife and son, John D., departed shortly after college closed last spring. Dr. Lingle, in presenting the speakers, said that the committee had asked that they give informal talks and to tell those things that are not written in books and therefore available to all.

Dr. Grey was the first to speak, and he, being the Latin professor here, was especially interested in the ancient culture and civilization of the Romans. He said that he was fortunate enough to become acquainted with a professor from Columbia who gave him many pointers on what to see of most particular interest. Among these things, he said, was the old Roman Forum in the city of Rome which in ancient times was the seat of the government. On a bus trip to Ostia, Dr. Grey was surprised to find a piece of lead pipe that had served to carry water from the Sabine hills to Rome some 2,000 years ago. A most interesting part of his talk was the description of Vesuvius and of the ruins of Pompeii. Other points of interest mentioned were the villa of Horace in the Sabine hills, the Appian Way, beautiful Naples, and other places of Southern Italy. Time, however, did not allow Dr. Grey to take his hearers outside of Italy.

In the time that was left, Dr. McConnell told of his travels in France. He remarked that he found France to be a living, working model of the old Manorial system of farming. In Paris, the party took in many of the historic sights—the palace of Versailles, the site of the Bastille, the tomb of Napoleon, the Louvre, and other places. A trip was also taken to the battlefields of the late war. Verdun has been left as it was, a memorial to the dead soldiers. The work of rehabilitation is being carried on rapidly, aided by the French government, in those towns wrecked by the Germans.

STRONG TALK BY OLD DAVIDSON MAN AT “Y”

Mr. Griffin Addresses Davidson Men at Vesper Service

Hon. I. C. Griffin, of Shelby, was the speaker at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sunday evening. Mr. Griffin is a Davidson man, graduating in 1899, and has since that time been active in the educational work of this state. Besides being the head of a city school department, he also holds a professorship in a state institution during the summer.

Vic Brown, of the program committee, presided. During the opening exercises, Albert Hillhouse and Lee McLean led the house in prayer for God’s blessing on the meeting. Miss Griffin, the daughter of the speaker, was the pianist of the occasion. In introducing the speaker, Vic spoke of him as a man whom every Davidson student is glad to welcome back to the hill, and his words were proved by the intense attention given during his address.

Mr. Griffin thanked Davidson for what it meant to the Church, to the State, and especially for the work done in Shelby by Davidson men for high school boys of that city. He spoke in highly complimentary terms of W. S. Buchanan, ’23, who is teaching in Shelby this session. The subject treated by Mr. Griffin was Practical Problems of Everyday Life—How They May Be Solved. He referred to the scripture lesson, Matt. 7:1-12, “Ask and it shall be given you; seek and ye shall find; knock and it shall be opened unto you.”

“But whom are we to ask? Ask God, the Ruler, the Creator of the universe. He says unto you ‘Ask and you shall receive.’ “How then are we to ask? ‘Ask as one seeking something from your father. Ask in faith, believing He will give it to you. “What shall we ask? Solomon, when given his choice, asked for wisdom to rule his people, because that was what he wanted. Ask for what you want, for God has asked you ‘What shall I give you?’ It is yours to make the choice, but in asking, make your petitions for things worthwhile.

“Asking alone is not enough: we must also seek. You may ask God for knowledge, or for strength, but if you do not seek those things, you can never expect to have them. Besides asking and seeking, the one who would achieve his ambition in life must knock. It is the man who digs that finds the gold in the ground, and not the one who looks for it on the surface. “Anything found on the ground, just ready to be picked up, is of no value. If knowledge could be picked up without study, it would be of no value. But to gain knowledge, we must dig it out of the mines of knowledge given us—our textbooks.”

“Now while the chance is given you,” argued Mr. Griffin in his closing remarks, “Gain those things that will make real men. Take advantage of your opportunities while they are yours. Learn to be strong physically, for physical power is a great asset to a man. Learn to cultivate good morals, and learn to be loyal to your college, for if you are loyal to your college, you will be loyal to your Church, to your State, and to your God.” After the closing hymn, Dr. Hood pronounced the benediction.

CAPTAIN WEATHERBY GOES TO NEW POST IN PANAMA

Captain Weatherby, for the past two years one of the most popular officers of the Davidson unit of R. O. T. C., has been recently transferred to Panama. He left this week for New York, from which point he will embark for Panama, where he will be stationed for the next three years in command of a machine gun company. Since coming to Davidson, Captain and Mrs. Weatherby have made their home here the year round and have cultivated a large circle of friends.

During his stay here, Captain Weatherby has rendered his country and the college a great good which cannot be estimated. He has always been an officer faithful to duty and ready to aid anybody in his R. O. T. C. difficulties. He always had a ready word for everybody. The students and the citizens of the town give Captain and Mrs. Weatherby up with reluctance and send them to their new location with best wishes for their future success.

L’ILLUSTRATION IS NOW AVAILABLE AT LIBRARY

Through the kindness of Professor Lingle, L’Illustration, the beautifully illustrated French weekly, is now received in the reading room. The magazine is in French texts and it will be of incalculable benefit to the French classes. Those unfortunates who do not read the French language will be interested in the artistic pictures showing current happenings in France. This magazine is considered the world’s most dignified weekly publication.

OFFICERS FOR FIRST TERM ELECTED BY PANDEINICS

The regular weekly meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society was held on Tuesday evening, the 2nd of October. A very interesting program was presented. The first number was a debate on the subject, Resolved, That the United States and Canada co-operate to improve the St. Lawrence River between Lake Ontario and Montreal. The affirmative, upheld by H. L. Shaw and B. Y. Pitts, was defeated by L. B. Gibbs and A. H. Hollingsworth, the supporters of the negative. Current Events were reviewed by P. J. Steele, and A. Milton was the declaimer of the evening. R. M. Carr delivered an excellent oration on the subject: “Why Is a College Education of Value?”

The remainder of the evening was devoted to the election of officers for the new term. The following were elected: President, D. B. Walthall; vice-president, C. M. S. McIlwaine; secretary, A. H. Hollingsworth; first critic, W. M. Cox; second critic, H. B. Price; sergeant at arms, L. P. Cox.Two new men—G. M. Eddington, ’26, and L. M. McCutchen, ’27, were initiated. This day is too dear with its hopes and aspirations to waste a moment upon the yesterday.

“But when we ask God for gifts, for BEALL, PRICE AND STALEY: FAVORITES IN TOURNAMENT

The tennis tournament, which has been in progress for several weeks, is nearing the end. The three letter men from last year’s team are going strong and it seems that one of them will carry off the honors. Since the last issue of The Davidsonian nearly all the third and fourth rounds have been played off. Beall, a letter man from last year, beat Wells 3-6, 6-2, 6-3. It was a good match and shows much improvement since last year. McBryde drew a “bye” and meets Beall next. Harry Price, another veteran, beat McLeod 6-4, 6-2. Harry seems to have gathered in some experience during the summer. Jones and Morrison are behind with their match. The winner plays McAlpine, and then comes Price. Probably the hardest fought match was the one between Wharton and Carr, which ended in favor of Wharton, 6-4, 5-7, 9-7. The lower brackets seem to have been played off faster than the upper one. Trotter and Staley have fought their way to the semi-finals in this division and the match between these two should be a good one. Though the upper matches have not all been played, dope says that Harry Price and Beall will probably play in the semi-finals. They have some hard opposition to overcome, and if they win out they will have to show the best that is in them. A match with Wake Forest is practically assured on the 25th of this month. Our old rivals have an exceptionally strong team this year, and hope to beat us out of the state championship. Work on two new tennis courts will begin some time this week. We have been in need of more courts and this addition will relieve some of the congestion. The prospects for a winning team seem good, though the absence of Hugh Bradley will be felt to a great extent. The three varsity men of last year have greatly improved their play, and Jimmy Trotter looks good for the vacancy.

CLASS EXHIBITIONS (Continued from page 1)

Interest that her select will appear in the performance will represent the best in Davidson's dramatic line. To make the stunts more of a success in the way of a surprise, the committee in charge is not giving out any details of the program. Suffice it to say that there will be plenty of music, acrobatic work, and dramatics. It is also stated that a one-act play by local talent will probably prove the hit of the night. A small admission fee of 15 cents will be charged to help toward the securing of Mrs. Baker who will direct the Glee Club. She has had much experience along this line and the time she will be with the Glee Club should prove of inestimable aid. The weekly picture on Saturday night has been moved up to Friday night when Rex Beach's “The Spoilers” will be shown here.

HIGH SCHOOL BOYS WIN IN GAME WITH LANDIS

Last Friday, the Davidson "Highs defeated the team from Landis 20-0, in a somewhat ragged game marked by the long end runs of the Davidson backs and the high tackling ideals of the visitors. During the first half, the Landis team could not hold the local boys. Wilson kicked off to Landis. They were held and forced to punt. Riggs McConnell received the ball in midfield and returned 10 yards. In two tackle plays, Davidson had crossed the goal for the first score. Riggs missed goal. Later in the same quarter, the locals carried the ball down to the visitors’ goal line by a series of end runs interspersed with forward passes, and pushed it over on a line buck. Thompson's drop-kick on the try for point failed to rise from the ground. Late in the second quarter, Rufe Johnston pulled off a bit of pretty broken field running, dodging through the whole Landis team for a touchdown from the 35-yard line. Riggs again missed goal. During the second half, the Landis team tightened down and held the locals, except for a safety made when Johnson's punt rolled over the goal line and a Landis back tried to run it back, but was downed in his tracks for a safety. For Davidson, Riggs McConnell starred, making several long runs, one for 35 yards. In the line, the work of Wilson was outstanding. The only way Landis could gain ground, except by the aerial route, was by the line bucks of H. Deal, several long passes being pulled off, Deal to Kennerly. The Davidson team missed the headwork and sweeping end runs of Dick Gray, who was kept out of the game by an attack of bronchitis.

Line-up:
Landis. Position. Davidson.
Arbuckle Right End Wilson
Right Tackle Goodrum
Right Guard Deal, R.
Center Divine
Left Guard Thompson, P.
Left Tackle Gudger
Left End McConnell, R.
Right Halfback Johnson
Left Halfback McConnell, H.
Quarterback Deal, H.
Fullback

Score by quarters:
Davidson 12 6 2 0—Total, 20
Landis 0 0 0 0—Total, 0

Substitutions: Davidson—Shumaker for Thompson, White for C. Cathey. Referee: Van Sant; umpire: Weems; head linesman: Zander McAllister. Time of quarters: 8-10-8-10.

PROSPECTS FOR CLASS BASKETBALL BRIGHT

During the past week, plans have been started for a banner season in class basketball. Each of the three upper classes has chosen a manager, while at the time of writing the Freshmen had not elected their representative. The following men have been picked by their classes: George Hodgin, Senior; Tom Staley, Junior; Count Davis, Sophomore. Of course, every one of the classes expects to run away with the race, but at this time it seems that the Seniors have the best prospects. They were runner-up last year and with the complete team back this year with one exception, they probably will have the best team. Their best man, Elkins, forward, and McBryde, center, are both back and are raring to do things. These two positions will be well taken care of to say the least. Other prominent men are: McLaurin, Reg Price, Dick McMillan, Boushee, Currie, Ed Brown, Streibich, Story. The championship team of last year was sadly shot when two men were promoted to the varsity and two did not return to school. The only two remaining are Ed Morrison and Ted Koenig. Both these men were unanimously chosen for the all-class team. There are several aspirants, who under the guidance of Tom Staley, claim that they will put out a good team and keep the championship in ‘25. These men are: McNair, Harry Price, Bub Oceland, Wharton, Twist Matthews, and Piggy Martin.

The Sophomores, under the leadership of Count Davis, seem to be the team to be watched this year. Finishing on the bottom last year, they are out for revenge and seem to be in earnest about it, too. They have several members of the old team back and in addition two men from last year’s varsity scrubs, viz: Litch Huie and John Cooke, both of whom are centers. With these two men playing this year, with Lindley, Gracey, Brice, and Count Davis, it is apparent that something is going to bust wide open. Among the many candidates starting, Blue, Lindley, A. C., Oden, Speir, Parker, Killiford, and McLeod seem to be the best.

As usual, the Freshmen will have the dark-horse team. They have not taken any steps forward yet, but among their numbers are several who were pretty good in high school. Practice has not started yet but many go out every afternoon to get limbered up.

Frosh Calendar
Monday morning late to class,
Tuesday, quiz; I didn't pass;
Wednesday had a two-hour date,
Thursday found the girl don't rate.
Friday flunked another test—
Saturday’s my day of rest.
Tomorrow morn I'll sleep ‘til one;
Another week of toil is done.
—Octopus.

What a difference just a few cents make!
FATIMA