THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

Now that the holidays are over and there is nothing but the memories left, maybe she wouldn't tell you she loved you. But can you remember any woman who (before you fought) admitted that she did NOT really love you?

All during the holidays students were claiming to be killing themselves with study—but so far the Davidsonian hasn't been overburdened with obituary notices.

Jack Austin reports that he carried one of the fair things to ride this Christmas in his car and when they got out in the country, he tried to kiss her. She got sore and walked back. Rather tough on “Bright Eyes” Austin but he says he got back at her the next time for he carried her out in a motor boat.

A girl's ‘No” often means “Yes,” but her “Yes” never means “No.”

Prof.—“Nothing ever was, now is, or ever will be that did not come from something that was, now is, or will be.”
Vie Brown—“That explains the hole in the doughnut.”

They say that a cheap car does not a Rolls-Royce make, but there is more chance of it breaking down out on the country roads. The flapper still looks as keen as ever.

For the benefit of all students who are undecided as to their life work we offer the following:

A Spirited Vocation

Each year a host of college grads go out into the world to earn their living and make their mark (as they say in Germany). But this year another great field is open to the college man. Bootlegging has attracted untold numbers of young men to serve beneath its colors, the predominant color right at present being amber brown, while most of the serving is done in hotels. We look to these men to uncork some wonderful results when current matters now brewing have been stilled.

On the first floor of Rumple the other night the question under discussion was the dates with different girls during the holidays. Upon naming one girl, one of the Senior members of the bull session remarked “That girl is dead from the neck up.” Immediately a Freshman (whose name we are unable to give at this writing as he is not able to receive visitors yet) remarked, “Well, what do you care? Her neck is all right.”

A favorite expression around Davidson at this time of the year: “Say, roomie, let me see your account book will you? Father wants me to send him an account of my monthly expenditures.”

When the news is running low
Then it is the papers blow
And we become the passing show,
Then they show the college-man.
Poor college man.

Every southern school is ranking
Rank with booze and opium smoking
So the critics are all croaking—
Croak about the college man
Poor college man.

Standards are the lowest yet,
All we do is drink and pet,
All our good points they forget,
But ne’er forget the college man—
Poor college man.

“Wiggs” Bradford says it’s all a mistake—another good resolution broken.

LOOK INTO THE FUTURE (Continued from Page 1)

Carolinas and Virginia. Georgia Tech and Wofford are gone from the 1923 schedule and two old opponents, Citadel and Clemson, take their places. Never has there been keener rivalry between two teams than between the Clemson Tigers and Davidson Wildcats, and the scheduling of this game marks the renewal of a struggle as closely matched as it is fiercely contested. Ignoring the S. A. T. C. year the series stands a tie with each team winning four times and three resulting in ties. During the S. A. T. C. season the Tigers won by a 7-0 count. This will be the first contest between the two since 1919 and will be played at Clemson with a return engagement at Davidson the next year. The Citadel game will be the Homecoming Day attraction this fall. Citadel always puts up a hard fight against the Wildcats and several contests have ended in ties. The remaining teams on the schedule were played last year, but the dates have been switched in many instances.

Trinity takes Furman’s place as our Turkey Day opponents and the scene of the battle will be Charlotte. Furman will be played at the State fair in Columbia, S. C., late in October. Since the game will not be played at Greenville, the Wildcats may be able to shake off the jinx of the past three years and humble the Hurricane. The scenes of the Carolina and State clashes have not been decided but Winston-Salem, Charlotte and Greensboro are being strongly considered. With 10 letter men back, the Wildcats are looking for a banner season.

Captain—Not elected.
Manager—A. M. Hillhouse.
Letter men returning—Shepherd, half; Faison, end; Davis, C. M., end; Clarke, tackle; Hendrix, quarter; Hunt, half; DeArmon, half; Mallory, end; Fields, center; Cox, tackle.

September 22—Elon at Davidson.
September 29—P. C. at (undecided).
October 6—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
October 13—Citadel at Davidson.
October 20—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
October 24—Furman at Columbia, S. C. (State fair).
November 3—N. C. State at (undecided).
November 10—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.
November 17—Carolina at (undecided).
November 29—Trinity at Charlotte.

BASKETBALL

The Wildcat quint is rapidly rounding into form for the opening game of the season with Charlotte “Y” on the 16th of this month. Last year and again this season the schedule makers have been handicapped by examinations which come the last of January and seriously impair the length of the season. A return to the old two-term system with exams before Christmas or an adoption of the three-term session would do away with this difficulty. So far 14 games have been scheduled in the Carolinas. A three-game North Carolina trip, a three-game South Carolina trip and two games in Charlotte make up the out of town games and the remaining six are scheduled for the Hill. A contest with Carolina was not closed as they were not willing to play on the home and home plan or on a neutral floor. Two games each are scheduled with Wake Forest, Elon, State and Wofford. Last season the Poison squad annexed both games from Wake Forest, State and Wofford and split with the Elon aggregation. Trinity will be met in Charlotte and one contest each will be played with Furman and Clemson on the South Carolina trip. Three games with Y. M. C. A. complete the meagre schedule. There is a possibility that several more games will be arranged by Manager Adams for this year’s fast traveling five. State championship honors are in sight and every man on the squad is working hard to make this the best basketball season in Davidson's history.

Captain—G. W. Mauze.
Manager—J. M. Adams.
Letter men back—Mauze, center; Crawford,guard; C. M. Davis, guard; Beall, forward; Mallory, forward.

Teams:
January 16—Charlotte Y. M. C. A. at Charlotte.
February 3—Charlotte Y. M. C. A. at Davidson.
February 5 or 7—N. C. State at Davidson.
February 6—Trinity at Charlotte.
February 8—Wofford at Davidson.
February 14—N. C. State at Raleigh.
February 15—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
February 16—Elon at Elon.
February 19 or 20—Wake Forest at Davidson.
February 21—Clemson at Clemson.
February 22—Wofford at Spartanburg.
February 23—Furman at Greenville.
February 26—Sumter Y. M. C. A. at Davidson.
March 3—Elon at Davidson.

BASEBALL
The Wildcat team must be thoroughly reconstructed this season. One infielder, one outfielder, and three pitchers are the nucleus around which this year’s team must be formed. Pat Crawford at first, Brice in the outer gardens, and Boushee, McPherson, and Sorrells on the mound, are the only lettermen in harness, but there is much new material in a well-balanced aggregation.

For the first time in several years, a Virginia trip will be made. The University, V. M. I., and V. P. I. will be met and the Techmen have scheduled a return engagement at Davidson. On the South Carolina trip, Clemson, Wofford, and Furman will be the Wildcats' opponents and the Clemson Tigers come up to Davidson for a game. Last season the Wildcats lost two of three to the South Carolina teams by small margins. Two games each are scheduled with Elon, State, and Trinity, and the Wake Forest Baptists come to Davidson for one contest. Taking everything into consideration, it is the stiffest schedule the Wildcat nine has had to face in several years, and victory would rank them high in the South Atlantic standing. Arrangements are being made for several games with Southern teams making North Carolina trips, but Manager Elliott has secured none to date.

Captain—C. R. Crawford.
Manager—W. T. Elliott.
Lettermen back—Crawford, first base; Brice, outfield; McPherson, pitcher; Sorrells, pitcher; Boushee, pitcher.

March 30—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 31—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
April 2—Clemson at Davidson.
April 7—Trinity at Davidson.
April 9—N. C. State at Davidson.
April 14—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 21—Elon at Davidson.
April 23—V. P. I. at Davidson.
April 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.
April 26—Clemson at Clemson, S. C.
April 27—Furman at Greenville, S. C.
May 1—N. C. State at Raleigh.
May 2—Trinity at Durham.
May 3—Elon at Elon.
May 8—University of Virginia at Charlottesville.
May 9—V. M. I. at Lexington.
May 10—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.

TRACK
The Red and Black track team, with seven lettermen back, seems to be well up in the running for honors this spring. They captured third place in the State meet and four of that team, together with three men from the year before, are back on the track. McBryde, who did such excellent work in the distance events his freshman year, has been forced off the track and will not compete this season. Two dual meets have been closed and one more is pending. South Carolina and N. C. State will be met on their fields and negotiations are under way for a meet with Trinity or Clemson here. In addition to these meets, the team will enter the State meet again this year and it is hoped that the monopoly which State and Carolina have had in the last few years will be broken.

Acting Manager—W. F. Galloway.
Lettermen back—Galloway, half mile; Dick, 220, 440, low hurdle; Striebich, pole vault, high hurdles; Gentry, high jump, broad jump, javelin; Gracey, pole vault, high hurdles, broad jump, high jump; Koenig, 220, 440; McComb, javelin.

April 7—South Carolina at Columbia.
April 14—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 21—Open date at Davidson.
May 3—State meet at Durham.

TENNIS
Of last year’s tennis team which won the State championship, only one man remains—S. H. Bradley. No schedule has been arranged, but several dual meets will be held and a team will be entered in the State tournament. Harry Price, the winner of the fall tournament, has the brightest chance for the second place, but there will be a great deal of competition over the remaining places. The spring tournament will decide the personnel of the team which will represent the college in the spring matches. Carolina and Trinity both have strong teams and the Wildcats need the best they can get to hold their own this spring.

WRESTLING
Last season the Wildcat grapplers lost their only match to Trinity by a score of 12 points to 10. With practically all the men back, this year should prove a good season for the matmen. Three matches have been arranged with V. M. I., Trinity, and South Carolina, and attempts are being made by Manager Cromartie to arrange two more matches with North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and V. P. I. at Blacksburg. All men with any knowledge of the sport are needed in the turning out of the team.

Captain and Manager—A. D. Cromartie.
February 23—Trinity at Durham.
March 2—South Carolina at Davidson.
March 9—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.

LANGLEY'S FIRST MODEL IN FLIGHT
Men broke their necks trying to fly. They had not troubled to discover what Solomon called “the way of an eagle in the air.” In 1891 came Samuel Pierpont Langley, secretary of the Smithsonian Institution. He wanted facts. His first step was to whirl flat surfaces in the air, to measure the air pressures required to sustain these surfaces in motion and to study the swirls and currents of the air itself. Finally, in 1896, he built a small steam-driven model which flew three-quarters of a mile. With a Congressional appropriation of $50,000, Langley built a large man-carrying machine. Because it was improperly launched, it dropped into the Potomac River. Years later, Glenn Curtiss flew it at Hammondsport, New York. Congress regarded Langley’s attempt not as a scientific experiment but as a sad fiasco and refused to encourage him further. He died a disappointed man. Langley’s scientific study, which ultimately gave us the airplane, seemed unimportant in 1896. Whole newspaper pages were given up to the sixteen-to-one ratio of silver to gold. “Sixteen-to-one” is dead politically. Thousands of airplanes cleave the air—airplanes built with the knowledge that Langley acquired. In this work, the Laboratories of the General Electric Company played their part. They aided in developing the “supercharger,” whereby an engine may be supplied with the air that it needs for combustion at altitudes of four miles and more. Getting the facts first, the Langley method, made the achievement possible. What is expedient or important today may be forgotten tomorrow. The spirit of scientific research and its achievements endure.

General Electric
Schenectady, NY, 95-636D