5 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1923

LITERARY NEWS

MR. JOHN R. TODD TO LECTURE ON BUSINESS

On the night of March 27, the students and people of Davidson are to have the privilege of hearing Mr.
John R. Todd of New York speak on the subject, Business as a Vocation. Mr. Todd is one of the
foremost men of his profession in the United States and is president of the well-known firm of Todd-Robinson-Todd Engineering Corporation.
He is an alumnus of Princeton University, having graduated with the class of ’88 of which his intimate friend, Rev.
Robert E. Speer, was also a member.

The Todd-Robinson-Todd Engineering Corporation is perhaps the largest concern in the construction of office buildings in New York City. One
of their latest achievements is the financing and building of the Cunard Office Building. They are about to begin the
work of building a new set of piers and offices for the Cunard Line in New York. Mr. Todd, who
usually spends a part of the winter at Camden, S. C., was invited to speak at Davidson by Rev. J.
C. Rowan, an alumnus of Davidson and pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Concord, N. C., who says, in
recommending Mr. Todd, “I do not know a man who can make a stronger appeal to young men, not excepting
Robert E. Speer, his classmate.” Mr. Charles Cannon and Rev. J. C. Rowan will motor over from Concord with Mr.
Todd.

DELTA PI KAPPA PLANS TO CONTINUE LECTURES

The Delta Pi Kappa fraternity at its last regular meeting held Tuesday night, March 6th, made plans for the continuation
of the series of lectures that has already been begun. It is the plan of Delta Pi Kappa to bring
men here to speak on journalism to those who are interested in journalistic activities. The speakers are to be men
of prominence in their profession, and who are among the outstanding journalists of the state. There was no program given
at this meeting as the time was entirely taken up with business. The names of new men to be taken
into the Delta Pi Kappa will be announced at a later date.

WHAT’S DOING

FRIDAY
10:00 P. M.—Reporters Club Meeting.

SATURDAY
4:00 P. M.—Baseball practice game.
“The Man Without a Country.” All Star Cast.
First show 7:00 P. M.
Second show 9:00 P. M.

SUNDAY
10:00 A. M.—Volunteer Band.
10:00 A. M.—Ministerial Band.
1:15 P. M.—Christian Endeavor Class.
2:00 P. M.—Expert Endeavor Class.
3:30 P. M.—Sunday School.
6:15 P. M.—Vesper Service.

TUESDAY
6:45 P. M.—Metrophilion Society.
7:15 P. M.—Pandemnic Society.

WEDNESDAY
9:00 P. M.—Bible Classes.

THURSDAY
7:00 P. M.—Au. Society.
7:00 P. M.—Phi. Society.

THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS TO BE PRESENTED SOON

In spite of the many other attractions to be presented at Junior speaking for the entertainment of the guests, the
Dramatic Club program on Friday night, March 30th, will stand out as one of the best. As in all colleges
nowadays, the Dramatic Club, under the guidance of Dr. E. J. Erwin, has forged to the front and stands out
as one of the important student organizations on the hill. The program on Friday night will be composed of three
one-act plays, written by students prominent in Dramatic Club work.

The first one will be a tragedy of Oriental life, De Profundis, by H. K. Russell. The story deals with
the rescue of a Nestorian girl captured by the Turks through the cunning of her Nestorian sweetheart, also a prisoner.
In the person of Ted Jones, the part of the Rajah is well taken care of. Miss Susie Brady, of
Davidson, has agreed to take the part of the slave-girl, and J. R. Earnest has the part of Kadwiel, the
lover.

The second play is a comedy of ultra-modern life. The conversation and acting are very realistic, that is, so far
as Davidson traditions will allow. Tubby Woolfolk, president of the Dramatic Club, is the author, and is also taking the
leading part. The whole setting and idea is taken from modern life, and the play results from a halfway wedding,
wherein the groom has sworn to take the girl as his wife, but the girl has not yet taken any
vows. Mrs. Moore, of Davidson, is taking the part of the half-wedded girl, Peggie, and Miss Jean Martin takes the
part of her younger friend and co-flapper. Flop Beaver, in the role of the typical, monocled “bally” young Englishman, is
the groom who finds himself in such an embarrassing position. N. O. Jones takes the part of Archie, the pal
of Charles, alias Tubby Woolfolk, who, in the end, marries Peggie.

The last play will be a comedy, Uncle Tommy's Haven, by W. F. Galloway. The absent-minded professor of “Hellenic Culture,”
Uncle Tommy, played by W. F. Galloway, is apparently confronted with the situation of having to provide for, as a
husband, Halide Kaled Nia Bey, one of the sultan’s cast-off wives. Jack Austin makes a very loving and affectionate Halide,
while Edgar, the professor’s nephew, and a sophomore in college, is played by Al Lake. In his usual role, and
without whom any comedy would fall through, is Piggy Martin, as Achilles Agamemnon Brown, the professor’s old servant, who is
usually led into some foolishness innocently by Ed, whom he regards as a young scalawag. Even the other members of
the cast find it hard to go on with the play and refrain from laughing at his antics. The three
plays will probably take about one and one-half to two hours scene-shifting, and will afford thorough entertainment.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON PLANS SPRING PROGRAM

The last meeting held by the Gamma Sigma Epsilon chemical fraternity was purely a business one. At this meeting various
plans were made for the work to be pursued during the remainder of the present spring term. The members of
the fraternity intend to hold, at an early date, an open meeting to which the promising students of chemistry of
the Sophomore and Freshman classes will be invited.

METROPHILIANS HAVE WELL PREPARED PROGRAM

The Metrophilians held their regular meeting last Tuesday evening at eight o'clock. The program was not quite up to the
standard, due to the fact that so few of the members were present. The subject for regular debate was: Resolved,
That each state should appoint a board of control to regulate its penal institutions. M. W. Trawick and D. B.
Wharton upheld the affirmative while J. M. Adams and W. H. Matheson argued for the negative. In spite of the
fact that three of the speakers were appointed on, the points were well presented and hotly contested. The judges decided
in favorof the negative. The subject for the extemporaneous debate was: Resolved, 'That the Davidson College campus should be drained
by a forty-foot canal to the Catawba River.' C. E. Hodgin argued for the affirmative against G. M. Morrow for
the negative. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative. The President urged the members to be more regular in
attending the meetings, and especially those who have been appointed on the program.

'Ask a Girl for Speaking'

THREE NEW COACHES
Continued from Page 1

In speaking to the lettermen, Coach Younger emphasized the necessity of keeping fit during the summer. He said it was
not necessary to keep training but that the care taken of their health this summer would be a large factor
in their success on the gridiron next fall. Next September, when the football candidates report, a training table will be
kept, for he believes that since they are to work together for three months, the football men should associate with
each other and learn to think as a unit, and that the training table will help toward that coordination of
mind and body which is necessary to win football games.

Coach Younger, commenting on his acceptance of the position, said that he was not coming here as a superior being,
to be looked up to and called Coach by everyone, but that Monk was his name at all times, and
he wished to be a friend to all. The names of the prospective athletes will be divided among the different
members of the D club and each member will write to his prospects encouraging them to enter Davidson next fall.
In addition, Monk will write to each personally and do all in his power to enroll them. Under Younger’s regime,
the D club also will be reorganized and will have regular meetings. A D room will be set aside and
made the social center for all lettermen. By this, the D club will be made a living organization once more.

Monk Younger left Tuesday morning for Blacksburg where he will coach the V. P. I. nine this spring. He will
bring his team to Davidson on April 23rd to battle with the Wildcats, and the Red and Black team will
stage a return engagement at Blacksburg, Virginia, on May 10th.

Prof. W. W. Wood has joined the ranks of enthusiastic motorists having recently purchased a Hupmobile.

'Ask a Girl for Speaking'

PANDEMICS ENJOY ENTHUSIASTIC MEETING

The last meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society was characterized by pep and enthusiasm and showed promise of re-awakened interest.
The debaters were: Shaw and O'Conner, affirmative (O'Conner speaking extemporaneously), and Steele and Moore S. W., negative. Their subject was
the management of the prisons. The affirmative advanced a plan providing for the replacement of the old warden system by
a new commission form of management in which one board of commissioners should have charge of all the prisons in
the state. The negative admitted the fault and incompetence of the warden system but rejected the proposed system. The house
accepted the proposal of the affirmative by a large majority; the judges unanimously.

Franklin, the declaimer of the night, delivered Grady’s classic, “The New South” in his usual expressive and fluent manner. The
current events were omitted. Wallace Moore brought the program to a close with his oration on “Ambition.” “Ambition,” he said,
“is the motive behind all the work and activity on the campus as well as elsewhere. It is the power,
whether noble or base, that lies behind every life and makes it what it is. A man should make sure
that his ambition is the noblest he can find and strive with all his energy to attain it.”

LIBRARY NEWS

Through its ever-thoughtful friend, J. C. Harper, ’15, the library has received a copy of Finding Your Job by Norman
S. Shidle. This is a book on sound and practicable business methods of finding a job, and in it there
is no preachment—it is just brass tack material to be put into practice at once. It is a message of
a young man who has been through the mill, to others who are about to go through. The experiences of
the author and his friends are told in helpful detail.

INTERESTING DEBATE AT EUMANEAN SOCIETY

The regular meeting of the Eumanean Society, Thursday, March 8th, was opened by an interesting debate. Resolved: That the wardens
of all penal institutions in the state be appointed by a state board selected by the governor. The affirmative was
upheld by J. A. Bouvier and L. L. Bragaw, who won the judges' decision over F. R. Hudson and W.
Brown of the negative. Criticism of the debate was rendered in a most effective and interesting manner by Professor Wagner,
who prefaced his criticism proper by illustrating the immense value of public speaking to men in all walks of life.
His constructive criticism of the speakers did not fail to benefit the entire society, as well as the men concerned.
J. R. Earnest delivered a highly interesting Roman declamation. R. H. Smith and H. O. Moss rendered thoughtful and instructive
orations. The society adjourned after deciding to select an official society pin at the next meeting.

“There’s nothing like combining business with pleasure,” said the tailor’s daughter as she lovingly wrecked the crease in her lover's
trousers.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Now Biggs Gets to Class On Time!

An exciting tale of adventure might be written about the hunting expeditions Biggs used to make, after the elusive cap
of his old tube of shaving cream. For months Biggs was late to class because he spent valuable minutes scouring
the corners of the bathroom for a cap that persisted in getting lost. But those troubles are over. For Biggs
has started using Williams’ Shaving Cream, which comes in a tube with a hinged cap that can’t get lost. You
see pictured here this cap which saves his time and patience and which will do the same for you. The
convenience of the Hinged Cap would alone be ample reason for your using Williams’. But when you consider that in
addition Williams’ is good for your skin, and is the most remarkable beard softener known, then it does seem that
you would be missing a good deal in getting along without it. Buy a tube and see if it isn’t
vastly better.

Notice the hinged cap. You can't lose it—and the tube hangs up!
