THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

ALHAMBRA NOW PLAYING
Leo Addes
FOLLYTOWN FROLICS
— NEXT WEEK —
ATT “SKINNY CANDLERS” BROADWAY FOLLIES
MATINEE DAILY :; NIGHT 7:30--9 3:30

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

COMPLETE LINE SILK-WOOL HOSIERY
A. C. McINTYRE
Box 123

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP

Want to Buy or Sell Anything?
The Davidsonian is Ready to Assist You

Fore! Fore!
Not that it makes any difference to us, but onions have gone up two cents a pound in the Fiji
Isles, and this together with the facts that the laundry has torn all the buttons off our other shirt and
the Arctic Ocean is full of ice water, leads us to believe that ere long the campus will be graced
with the sight of Walthall inside a pair of knickers. Mark our words and watch.

(On Prof. Currie Polit. Class)—You know, it was curiosity that killed the cat.
Buster Gray—What did the cat want to know, Doctor?

In view of the fact that the season for huckleberry pie is approaching, McKinnon is laying in a supply of
purple ties.

Good Boy Sherlock!!!!!!
“There’s something in that,” said the detective, as he stuck his head into the cuspidor.

Our Weekly Dime Novel
There was a tap on the door.

“I treated a man once who was so cross-eyed that the tears ran down his back,” said the old doctor.
“What did you treat him for?” asked the Medical Graduate.
“Bacteria.”

Winter Fashion Hints
Men of refinement usually include in their wardrobe either suspenders or a belt.

Bicycles will seldom be ridden this season by wooden-legged men.

The elite are becoming more and more attached to cross-cut saws as watch charms.

Around the first of the month hats seem to predominate. Caps have too large bills.

Now You Chase Me!!
Lady (Buying Railroad ticket)—“To Lee.”
Mr. Abernethy—“Too-de-la, you playful thing.”

Houck, after making 94 on Greek VI, would like to know who dragged who how many times around the walls
of what. We’ve heard of dumbbells, but we think that he abuses the privilege.

Our Weekly Song Hit
Watt McCain, a son of musical genius, of whom Davidson is justly proud, announces his weekly song hit, “We Feed
Our Baby Hot Dogs So We Can Weiner.” The second verse escapes our memory, but the first one is full
of sentiment. It goes like this:
Buffalo arose,
Fish in the ocean,
Sharks in the sea,
Second hand glands,
Made a monkey of me.

Engineer (At mealtime, hearing his hungry children crying)—“Please excuse me a minute. I’ve got to go switch a couple of
empties.”

Leighton Green announced at The Trough the other day that if anyone has seen his paraphernalia he would like to
get it back as he needs it to match his socks this week.

During a visit to our office the other day, Pete Young remarked that the enforcement of prohibition had quite taken
his breath away.

But—
Davidson College, adhering to its ever-present policy of providing comfort for the students, is rapidly pushing to completion plans for
the installation of fur-lined chapel seats, so that each boy may keep his eyes warm this winter. Another improvement, which
has been noticed, is the system of pneumatic air cushions, one being placed in each of the ditches of the
campus, to keep the students from hurting theirs on dark nights.

Speck McConnel—“What all are those holes in the floor?”
Jethro—“Yes sir, Captain. They’re knotholes.”
Speck—“Oh, yes they are too.”

Some of the students here are sensible. Others play golf.

A Showdown
The man who has never climbed the North Pole, has never...played on the linoleum, has “Ducks on that,” a friend
named Gustave, has never known anyone who loves near-beer, has never had cholera-morbus, has never worn a Van-Heusen collar, has
never held a royal flush, who has never worn “Paris—no metal can touch you—gets his choice, without any opposition from
us of the nickel-plated icicle, has never told a girl she never said, has never had for the group picture
of hermits. When the airship flew over the field in Charlotte Saturday, Warren was homesick and hid his face. Note:—He
lives in Mobile, so high. Cox became where they fly. Somebody split their sides over this one.

1st Diner—“Won’t you have some grits?”
2nd Ditto—“No thanks, I play a banjo.”

Ted (In restaurant)—“I'll take some coffee without cream.”
Waiter—“I'm sorry sir, but we have no cream. You'll have to take it without milk.”
Ted—“I don’t believe I'll take it then.”

Jones is home, religious and combustible. This is not a joke—nor is it bull. The Davidson College Magazine will be
worth sending. It will be different and more attractive than ever before. It will contain fifty pages or more. The
humorous section, “Cap and Bells” will contain a number of cuts and humor that is highly concentrated. It will be
issued four times during the collegiate year. The students will be solicited this week. Alumni should send their subscription fee
($1.00) to the Business Manager.

Red McCombs (In Restaurant)—“BRING ME A PIECE OF COCOA-NUT PIE, AND BE QUICK ABOUT IT.”
Greek Waiter—“Got no cocoa-nut pie and I threw three men out last week for not liking apple pie. What'll you
have?”
Red—“Bring me two pieces of apple pie.”

WRIGLEY'S
Take it home to the kids. Have a packet in your pocket for an ever-ready treat. A delicious confection and
an aid to the teeth, appetite, digestion.

Mason Fields was walking through a door with his new Senior sweater on. It caught on the latch of the
door, and for the last three days he has been trying to roll it up. The ball is getting too
big to hold now, though. We are glad that Claytor smokes, because he occasionally has to stop talking long enough
to take a drag to keep it from going out.

Sealed in its purity.

Crown Prince—“Fresh?”
Fifth Story—“It is now.”

“How long is it till chapel?”
1st Ditto—“That depends on what time it is.”
2nd Ditto—“What's the matter, is he flunking all his work?”
1st Student—“No, somebody stole all his clothes.”

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

BRONCHITIS
Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes so
vapors will be inhaled.
Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

SPECIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Church as usual Sunday morning. Some at the game in Charlotte had spirit; others had spirits. Patton says that during
the parade Saturday a dog bit him right on the square.

BO'NESS. Norwegian Grain Calf $10
Distinguished on all counts—but not the type of shoe that “everybody’s” wearing. Designed and built for the college man of
discriminating taste who leads but rarely follows. Imported Norwegian Calfskin carefully and pridefully fashioned into a shoe of surpassing merit.
Conservatively correct, yet with life and youth in every line.

DAVIDSON OCT. 29-30

The Raleigh Cafe always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high-tone fellows.

Orders 121 Duane Street, New York City
221 West Trade St.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Victrolas, Furniture, Rugs, Victor Records, Draperies, and Steinway Pianos
Interior Decorations, Player Pianos, and Pianola
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Reproducing Pianos, Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
