- THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Sidelights On the Combination Celebration

Although Davidson’s Ten Thousands failed to materialize to its fullest capacity, nevertheless, there was one continual round of merriment throughout
the length of the day, enforced or otherwise. From the Khaki Klad Kadets of Captain George to the knickerbockered sports
of the campus, everyone was dressed to his sartorial limit in order to catch the eye of all amorous females
who might meander down the classic avenues of our venerable campus during the ceremonies of the day. Not as many
arrived as was expected but as to the crowd, “’twas enough, ’twas sufficient.” Many have said that if the crowd
had been one girl larger, P. C. Henderson and Simril Bryant would never have gotten around to see all the
fair sex in the bunch.

Fresh Buckner was plainly perturbed for a while during the morning. He had heard the college was going to give
coffee away during the day, and lost no time in rushing up to Ted Jones and asking him who was
to teach Chemistry the rest of the year if they gave him away. He said that he thought it mighty
ungrateful of the college anyway.

During the review of Davidson’s Army by the Governor, one flaxen-haired female was heard to remark that “those toy soldiers
were the cutest things she had seen in ages.” All of which goes to prove that the warlord Mars and
his humble cohorts in Davidson have not wasted their time entirely.

When the glee club was performing and W. Theodore Jones was hitting the high places in his “Mandalay” song, the
breath of many of the more knowing ones was held in anxious suspense until he had safely gotten past the
end. “No great man is satisfied with what dead men have done, nor is stifled with what they have taught.
It is, in the opinion of some, the best physical training that can be had, and it will give all
those who are unable to take a part in basketball an opportunity to engage in some form of athletics. Coach
Younger urges all his football men to take a part in wrestling. Letters can be made in this as well
as any other form of athletics, and Freshmen are especially urged to take a part.

Mr. Wilson sounded a clarion call to men to think. In his words, “Unless there is reaching for thought away
from superstition, prejudice, fear, lust, greed, and a solving of social problems in the spirit and teachings of Jesus, the
world is headed for destruction.” Mr. Wilson, as well as from the writings of others of note, believes the hope
of the world, not morally only, not in view of heaven only, but mainly for the present, lies in the
right application of the teachings of Jesus.

There will be six meets this year, three of which have already been arranged. The first meet of the season
will be with Carolina and will be held on the hill, while the closing meet will be with V. M.
I. at Lexington. A third meet has been arranged with Trinity, which will also be on the hill; the other
three are to be arranged later. Of the total number of meets, two are to be held on the hill,
while four will be on foreign territory. Virginia will be invaded twice this year and it is thought that two
meets will be held on each trip. Wrestling is rapidly coming to the front in college athletics and will soon
create as much sentiment as other forms of college sports.

The man who has stopped thinking and stopped acting and rested on his oars is of that group specified by
the speaker as “those who sit on a safety valve and have not thought a new thought in forty years.”
In his chapel talk Saturday morning, Mr. Wilson spoke mainly of the teaching of Christ on the question of property.
In the eyes of the world, Christ was worth nothing when He died, because He had amassed no fortune. But
He said some important things concerning the absence of equines.

After all was elucidated and finished, Ben Franklin gave vent to his historical knowledge by explaining that the wooden horse
on the float, tethered to the aged gentry, was probably a replica of the famous wooden horse of Troy, or
perhaps the one that Richard cried after when he uttered his time-honored lament concerning the absence of equines.However, the banana
shortage seemed to have assuaged somewhat as several stalks were seen hanging in the booth of the League booth. One
smart Fresh walked up to this booth and asked for something in the shape of a banana. He didn’t know
whether to take it as a joke or to be indignant when one of the waitresses handed him a dill
pickle. One more member of the gentler set remarked that “they ought not to fight.”

EDUCATION MAKES THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE TO LIVE IN--- SO DOES LIFE INSURANCE
SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

He did not emphasize the getting about riches. When He went to the house of Zaccheus, that publican said, “Behold,
Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken anything from any man
by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.” And then Jesus said to His hearers, “This day is salvation come to
this house, forasmuch as he also is a son of Abraham.” “Does not this,” asked Mr. Wilson, “together with the
incident of the rich young ruler, indicate that Christ, in some way, connected a man’s salvation with the fact that
he got into the right relation with his fellowmen in the use of things? This is one of the evils
which needs to be remedied today, the relation of man to his fellowman in the use of material wealth, the
relation between the rich and the poor.”

By special request, Mr. Wilson stayed over and delivered another address Saturday afternoon, in which he spoke of the great
world movements which have taken place in the past. These were: the Reformation, a freeing of religious institutions from selfish
usurpers; the Revolutions—English, French, and American—which resulted in a freeing of political institutions; and the Abolition of Slavery—the freeing of
the human body, in a worldwide movement, of which the Civil War was only one phase. “These great movements were
not isolated events, but they grew one out of another. The next great movement, in the opinion of Mr. Wilson,
will be a freeing of property and personality. Some of the great business men are already realizing this. For instance,
the Rountrees of England, some of the world’s greatest manufacturers of chocolate, do not consider the making of chocolate as
the chief end of their business, but they emphasize the right relation of the business world toward the employees. Henry
Ford has a similar attitude toward the manufacture of automobiles.

“The life of every being has as a part of it a struggle for existence. The very thing of life
itself is a state which tries to endure. But it is a fact that there is also a struggle for
others, and this struggle increases as one goes higher in the animal world. The animals whose struggle is almost entirely
selfish are not the ones which are increasing in numbers, but are those species which are almost extinct. Is there
not a significant lesson here for our nation?”

It is the only branch of athletics on the hill that offers a letter to new men. There are only
three letter men back this year, and this does not necessarily mean that they will have any great advantage over
new men. The entire system of training has undergone a change and all will begin on an equal basis. All
in all, the prospects for the coming year seem to be the brightest in the history of wrestling at Davidson.

GOV. CAMERON MORRISON SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

“Socialism, etc., broke loose and began to raise Hell in the United States.” Governor Morrison expressed as his opinion the
fact that there was one way open to avert catastrophe caused by this adverse effect, that one way being for
the nation to enter the League of Nations, take a front seat, and help Woodrow Wilson to lead the world
into peace, or to shut our mouths and keep wholly out of European affairs if we do not live up
to the terms of the Peace Conference. “If we are not going to share responsibilities, take part in world’s affairs
and take our part in affairs we upheld at the Peace Table, our intermeddling of affairs should stop and we
should let the world know that we are through with world affairs.” He added that if we could not join
the League of Nations, the country should withdraw from all world affairs. “That would be an ignoble thing to do,
but a finer thing to do than we are doing,” he said.

Governor Morrison congratulated the World War veterans for their valor, and pointed to the time when, a hundred years hence,
the finest minds will be endeavoring to express the appreciation of the world for their services. “The heroes did not
suffer in vain. The politicians surrendered after their fight was over and the desired result has not been attained. We
must do something, and if the country will not do anything else, it should step aside and send a note
to that noble leader, Poincaire, and tell him that the heart of America is with him. However, we must not
sever and divide, but must work together.”

“We have more good roads than any other state. We have enlarged asylums and made room for the state’s uncared
for lunatics. We have more than doubled the institutions for all classes of unfortunates.” He spoke of a class of
8,000 high school graduates in comparison to 1,600 a few years ago. He showed how the taxing system of North
Carolina is working perfectly and that where the tax bill was written with the expectation of six million dollars a
year, the income bids fair to mount to eight million dollars, by which all road bonds could be met before
their due date. He said that, instead of a deficit of five million dollars, the state is now eight hundred
and fifty thousand dollars to the good. All of these funds are derived mainly from those able to bear it.
His closing statement was, “Stand in the spirit of concord and progress, then let North Carolina speak out to the
government at Washington that it must enter the League of Nations and quit unofficially squabbling over European affairs.”

FORMER PRESENT FUTURE STUDENTS
Stand by us in our efforts to make the Davidsonian top the list among College Publications. This can’t be done
without YOUR hearty support.

BELK BROS. CO.
Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats and Furnishing Goods at attractive prices. Come in and
see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS
New Fall Hats in latest Shapes and Patterns

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS
Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. $2.95, $3.95, 98c, $1.50,
and $2.00

MEN’S TIES
Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR
Men’s Nainsook unionsuits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c
Men’s medium weight unionsuits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY
Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c
Men’s silk sox 48c, 85c, $1.00
