Speaking! Speaking! = | THEDAVISONIAN [= FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. % | 0) DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH
15, 1923 No. 20

ELABORATE PREPARATIONS BEING MADE FOR ANNUAL JUNIOR CLASS FESTIVE OCCASION

Juniors Announce Tentative Plans For Biggest ‘‘Speaking Ever Pulled’’ For Easter Holidays

Spectacular Cabaret Attraction For Grand Finale on Saturday Night

Junior speaking this year promises to be a “blaze of glory,” for there ought to be enough “fire” on the
hill to make the Chamber’s conflagration sink into oblivion by comparison. The faculty granted four full holidays for Easter, and
the Junior Class jumped at this opportunity to put on such a speaking as few Davidson student bodies have ever
enjoyed. Numerous committees headed by W. T. Jones, Elkins, Bradford, and R. R. Jones, have been working early and late,
and they have a program ready to present which is full of pep, variety, and novel entertainment. Even with this
elaborate program, however, the success of Junior speaking really depends upon every fellow having a girl up to enjoy the
holidays with him. Each class has promised its full cooperation, and preparations have been made to take care of every
girl available within a radius of three states. The girls are all crazy to come up, and someone is particularly
anxious for a bid. Don’t disappoint her!

There are several features on the program. In fact, the first night a six-reel feature will be shown, namely, Adam's
Rib—which sounds like more “fire.” Frank Tony claims this is one of the best shows we will get to see
this year, so don’t miss it. The Junior speeches are scheduled for Friday morning. This year interest in the Literary
Societies has increased to a marked degree. The making of Junior speeches is entirely (Continued on Page 8)

New Alumni Catalogue

The Alumni Catalogue of Davidson College, which has been in the course of preparation for over a year and which
has recently been ordered published by the Board of Trustees, will be in the hands of the printers before any
lapse of time. It will contain the names of between three and four thousand Alumni, giving a short history and
personal sketch of every graduate of whom a record is available, as far back as the class of ’59. F.
W. Hengeveld, Registrar of the college, has been engaged in collecting data for this record for a year, and under
his supervision a near-complete list of Davidson’s graduates has been secured, with present addresses and occupations. Dr. T. W. Lingle
will act as editor of this Catalogue.

DR. LANE LECTURES ON CONDITIONS IN NEAR EAST

Doctor Lane Lectures on Conditions In Near East

Attitude of Athens Toward Turks Since 1914 Stressed by Speaker

Professor R. P. Lane, of the department of political science in the University of Michigan, and for the past three
years in charge of Junior Red Cross work in Europe, delivered an intelligent and comprehensive lecture on the recent Lausanne
conference, Tuesday, March 6th, in Shearer Hall. Doctor Lane, who is visiting various colleges in the country under the auspices
of the Institute of International Education, of New York, chose that subject by special request. Throughout his talk, he stressed
the fact that, though he was just back from Europe, he was not the bearer of any official secrets, nor
of any news hitherto unpublished. He had not, he said, been admitted to any political holy of holies. His statements
were facts and his own impressions as he had been able to gather them. The speaker was evidently impressed by
the importance of the Turkish situation, and seemed to view the state of things as merely a step in the
evolution and growth of Turkey. It is his opinion that the now “unspeakable” Turk will, in the course of time,
become a nationality entitled to respect. “It is natural,” Doctor Lane said, “for the Christian world to note the barbarous
actions and cruelties of the Turk, but it would be far better to recognize that the new Turkey has a
national policy, and to control and direct rather than sneer at and ridicule their aspirations.” (Continued on Page 8)

QUEEN’S CHORAL CLUB PLAYS BEFORE DAVIDSON AUDIENCE

Operetta Well Presented and Enthusiastically Received

Last Monday night in Shearer Hall, the Queen’s College Choral Club gave the operetta Martha. Shown before a packed house,
the Queens presented a concert equaled only by the famous Wildcat Minstrels. It has been a long time since the
rafters of old Shearer Hall echoed to such splendid harmony. The operetta was divided into four acts. The first one
opened on Lady Harriet Durham’s boudoir when she is sulking with her friend Nancy because of the lack of excitement.
They finally succeed in getting the consent (Continued on Page 6)

WEEKS PRESIDES OVER STATE STUDENT VOLUNTEER UNION

Nine Davidson Delegates McBryde Elected Treasurer

Two Hundred Present Inspiring Talks Feature of Twelfth Annual Conference

The North Carolina Student Volunteer Union closed its twelfth annual conference Sunday night, March 11th, after a three-day session at
N. C. State College in Raleigh. Two hundred Volunteers and non-volunteer delegates attended. They were most hospitably cared for in
the homes of the city, two meals of the day being given in the new college dining hall and breakfast
at the homes. The meetings of the conference were all held in the Y. M. C. A. building. After arriving
in the city Friday and being assigned their rooms, all met for the first time inA special prayer service for
the conference. At 7:30 that evening, the conference was formally opened. After a short devotional service, Dr. W. C. Riddick,
president of State College, wholeheartedly welcomed the delegates in the name of Raleigh and of the college. The president of
the N. C. Union, Guy Weeks, of Davidson, responded to this welcome and appealed for prayer, faith, promptness, and friendliness
during the conference session. Dr. Wade Smith, pastor of the Church by the Side of the Road, in Greensboro, made
the speech of the evening in a masterly portrayal of the problems of personal work. His illustrations were excellent. As
the two ideal aims for personal work, he pointed to the apostle’s phrases, “Living unto Him,” and “Looking unto Him.”
At the Saturday morning session, interesting talks were made by Dr.

Continued on Page 6

THREE NEW COACHES WILL DIRECT WILDCAT

V. M. I. ENCOUNTERS TOUGH FOE IN WILDCAT WRESTLERS

Grapplers Make Creditable Showing in Last Match of Season

Davidson grapplers returned Monday suffering the sting of an 18 to 10 defeat at the hands of V. M. I's
cadets, but with the consolation that not such a bad showing was made against one of the best wrestling aggregations
in the South. Not until the outcome of the final match did the Davidson matmen lose the hopes of toppling
the dope battle that everyone thought held an overwhelming defeat for Davidson. Davidson entered the meet with all odds against
her. V. M. I. had defeated Trinity’s North Carolina championship team and thus capped Southern Championship honors and held a
victory over every team she had met this year. Davidson, however, kept the score close at all times and held
the lead at one point during the meet. The last match, which was the deciding event, was won by Barbour,
V. M. I’s 235-pound heavyweight, in the extra time periods after Lindamood, of Davidson, had held him to a draw
in the initial period. Woodward, captain-manager of V. M. I’s team, started the meet against Selcer of Davidson, in the
115-pound class. The match, as all others, was a merry mix-up from the start. After about five minutes, the men
went to

Continued on Page 2

CANDIDATES STAGE BATTLE ROYAL FOR NINE POSITIONS

Eleven Big Baseball Contests Slated for Sprunt Field

With the advent of real baseball weather and with the first game of the season only two weeks off, Buck
Currie is working his squad into shape, and prospects point to a successful baseball season which will be assured only
by time. In answer to the call for aspirants to the Red and Black nine, about sixty men reported. Sprunt
Field is a scene of activity these days, resounding with the crack of willow on horsehide and the land of
the sphere in dozens of gloves. A spectator has to keep “heads up” to avoid being struck down by a
stray baseball. As a nucleus about which to build the new team, Coach Currie has five lettermen: Captain Pat Crawford,
who holds down the first sack; Brice, last year’s utility man; and three pitchers—Sorrels, Bouchee, and Hunter.

Continued on Page 7

ATHLETIC POLICIES DURING COMING YEAR

Tex Tilson, V. P. I. Captain And Star, Will Aid Monk in Coaching Line

Younger Visits Hill

Rawson Comes from University of Georgia To Conduct Freshman Teams

Coach W. I. Younger, who has signed with the Wildcats for next year, stopped by Davidson on his return from
the Southern Basketball Tournament and spoke to the D club on the evening of March 5th, outlining his plans for
the coming year and starting his work of building up a winning combination on the gridiron next fall. In conjunction
with Monk Younger’s visit, Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager of athletics, announced that S. D. Tilson, former V. P.
I. star and All-South Atlantic tackle for two years, and C. W. Rawson, former half at the University of Georgia,
would assist Coach Monk in his rejuvenation of athletics at Davidson. Tex Tilson has played for the Gobblers for the
last five years and in the fall of 1921 captained the V. P. I. aggregation. For the past two years,
he has played under Younger and next fall will coach the Red and Black line as an assistant to his
former mentor. Rawson will have charge of the Freshmen and will coach the Freshman football, baseball, basketball, and track teams.
During the past three years, Rawson has coached at the Thomasville, Ga., High School and Riverside Military Academy. He has
played professional ball with the Atlanta club of the Southern League and comes to Davidson with a fine record behind
him and experience as a coach.

Continued on Page 5

Honorary Fraternities

Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, has issued bids to the following men: R. R. Jones, W.
F. Galloway, W. M. Heston, and L. D. Elkins. These men are all prominent in literary circles of the campus,
and it is through sincere endeavor that they have merited this honor. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical fraternity which was founded
at Davidson three years ago, has received W. Z. Bradford, R. R. Jones, and M. J. Murray. These men, in
equipping themselves for Gamma Sigma Epsilon, have made a name for themselves in the Chemistry Department. The initiates of both
organizations are members of the present Junior Class.

INVITE YOUR GIFT FOR SPEAKING
