THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

SATURDAY 7:30 P. M.
Joseph M. Schenck
NORMA TALMADGE
Admission: Bring a chair

Norma Talmadge Stars In “Ashes of Vengeance”
Historical Romance of France to be Presented Saturday Night

“Ashes of Vengeance,” the most pretentious photoplay in which Norma Talmadge has ever starred, and one of the newest and biggest productions of the season, will be shown here Saturday at 7:30 P. M. It is a romance of turbulent France under the treacherous dominion of Catherine de Medici, the power behind the throne of the weak-willed Charles IX in 1572. The story opens at a court ball on St. Bartholomew’s Eve held by Catherine de Medici to disarm suspicion. She manages to secure the signature of her weak son to a proclamation decreeing the massacre of the Huguenots. Rupert de Vrieac and his hereditary enemy engage in a duel in which de Vrieac is victorious but places La Roche under obligation by saving his life. The massacre of the Huguenots takes place that night, and La Roche saves both de Vrieac and his fiancée on the condition that the young nobleman becomes his servant for five years. At the castle of La Roche, de Vrieac is subjected to much humiliation at the hands of his captor and his beautiful sister, Yolande de Breux, played by Norma Talmadge, but finally wins their favor after saving the life of their invalid sister.

Later, Yolande, guarded by de Vrieac, goes to visit her cousin and there meets the despicable Duc de Tours, who seeks to win her. De Vrieac, after a desperate battle, saves her, and later at her request is released from his oath of servitude. The avowal of love between the young couple brings to an end the feud between the two families. Probably never in her brilliant career has the talented Norma Talmadge better displayed her beauty and talents than she does here as Yolande. And as Rupert, Conway Tearle plays his part in a manner as to almost share honors with the star. Wallace Beery, who was seen here last week in “The Spoilers,” rises to heights seldom before equaled in the portrayal of the cowardly villain of the play. The entire cast, and the four thousand extras employed in the spectacular and thrilling scenes, display no weak spots and are admirably handled in all of the many big scenes.

The photography is notably beautiful and the scenes have a richness and depth quite out of the ordinary. They are exquisitely set down to the finest artistic and historical detail. Nothing was left undone to make “Ashes of Vengeance” a masterpiece of the screen. Don't miss this one. “The Woman with Four Faces” starring Betty Compson, is the attraction for Nov. 5th. Other notable pictures on the way are “Why Worry?”—Harold Lloyd's “Red Lights,” a mystery story that is out of the ordinary, and “The Green Goddess”—absolutely a “knockout.”

STUDENTS GO TO CHARLOTTE IN ALL KINDS OF VEHICLES
Wildcats Flock to Charlotte for Annual Struggle With Baptists

With many of the pocketbooks flat, checkbooks useless, the limit of pawning personal belongings reached, but with the necessity of upholding those standards and traditions prevalent in every college student body, the students of Davidson College made a journey to Charlotte last Saturday to see Wake Forest ease across a 6 to 0 victory against their Wildcats. With such odds against them in getting there, the students employed tactics that, had they been directed along military lines, would have proved of sufficient magnitude to have greatly abetted the former German leader, Von Hindenburg, in holding that line he so long thought impenetrable. As a matter of fact, the students demonstrated the ease of adapting themselves to meet any emergency and, when the whistle blasted forth to begin the game, the Davidson bleachers were filled to their capacity with lusty-throated Beau Brummels from the denominational college.

Much speculation predominates as to how they got there by that time. Surely Davidson ran a special to the game. Intent upon seeing America, or at least a part of it, first, a good representation of Davidson, comprising two hundred and forty-six students and otherwise, Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors, and Seniors found themselves propelled southward in six train coaches drawn by a sputtering and tugging engine which formed the Wildcat Special. Among those availing themselves of this method of transportation were Nat Faison, who has dumbfounded the professors with his ability to learn; “Awful” Arbuthnot, the gentleman of Arbuckle proportions; Count Davis, manager of the Sophomore basketball team; and Paul Story, the military and debating genius of the Senior Class. Due to the interest Dandy showed in the band, John Simpson and George Dupuy also rode.

From the windows of the train, occasionally so completely clouded by strips of crepe-like paper that the vista therefrom was obscured, could be seen various other means of transportation by which Davidson students and supporters made the journey southward. Most prominent of these was the Buick of Dr. J. M. McConnell, who was in such a hurry to see the Baptists in action that he raced the special for a great distance. No one is certain of the outcome of the race for he suddenly disappeared and no one knows whether he forged ahead of the train or if a sudden spurt by the train at Huntersville left the Buick in a cloud of smoke and cinders. All vehicles that sounded as if they would successfully complete the trip were pressed into service by those students who lined the new highway for miles. Had anyone not known different, they would have been sure that the parade was Bill Joe’s caravan out to conquer the world. Students hailed cars, and without respect to person, caught rides in the first available cars. Among the first to catch a car were Calvin Young and three of his cronies. While parked at the cemetery, they saw Doctor Harding passing and hailed him, thus knocking him loose for transportation for four to the game. After their departure from the city, cars big and cars small, cars swift and cars slow were pressed into service. One of the most thrilling of rides was that John Selser picked. He flagged a Ford Coupe for a comfortable ride to the game. Comfort is what he had nothing else but, for the driver of the car managed to maneuver so that he hit Charlotte after an hour and a quarter of stiff driving during which time they stopped only once. Luckily John’s breath was not whisked away by the wind and John lived to return to the Hill and the college activities. The next chance to impose on the good nature of the traveling public will present itself on November the 3rd, when Davidson plays State. Surely a representative crowd will assume the attitude of the gentlemen of much leisure and avail themselves of the strip of asphalt that connects Davidson with Charlotte.

FIRST COURT BATTLE
The Wildcat tennis team will swing into action this afternoon against the racketeers from Wake Forest. The Davidson courts will be the scene of the match. This is the first court meeting with the Baptists; and the four Wildcats will be out to make it a victorious one.

The Davidson team, as announced by Manager T. F. Staley, will include three lettermen, Harry Price, Mac Beall, and T. F. Staley. The quartet will be rounded out by Jim Trotter, who merits this place by the fine form he has shown lately. These four men came through the tournament just held with little trouble and are easily the best of the fifty entrants. The six matches will begin at 2:30 P. M., Thursday. Staley, Price, Beall, and Trotter each will play a singles match with his respective opponent. Then Staley and Price will play a doubles match against the best pair the Baptists have to offer, and Beall and Trotter will play the second doubles match. The Davidson team is in fine shape and should give a good account of itself.

That the Baptists are strong cannot be doubted, but their particular strength is not known. However, a squad with the experience that they have had is sure to put up more than ordinary tennis to their Red and Black rivals. Although handicapped by the loss of Hugh Bradley, champion of North and South Carolina and Virginia, the local boys still have good prospects for a fine year on the courts. Staley has speeded up his game during the summer and his work in the forecourt has been especially notable of late. Steadiness and exceptional control will again win for reliable Harry Price. Mac Beall has been putting some fine deep drives across and his general game is a paceful one, calculated to find the weaknesses in his opponent's defense. Jim Trotter has displayed a well-rounded assortment of strokes in the late tournament and a good knowledge of how to use them.

The individual matches with Wake Forest will give valuable practice to the Davidson players. They will be able to determine what is needed for the development of a successful team next spring, which will endeavor to repeat last year’s wins over Clemson, Washington and Lee, and V. M. I.

DOPE BOX GIVES NOTHING FINAL AS TO CHAMPIONSHIP
With the defeat of the Wildcats by the Wake Forest lads Saturday, there is apparently an open road for Carolina to the state championship.Carolina undefeated by a Tar Heel aggregation, and the only chance remaining that Davidson will come out victor in their contest at Chapel Hill on Saturday, November 17. Carolina sent State home with a defeat of 14 to 0 a week ago today, and if the Wildcats can triumph over State and Carolina, Trinity ought to be the victim of defeat. Though Davidson was not the winner in last Saturday's contest, it does not bespeak the fact that Carolina is champion yet. Furman will be this issue the Davidsonian appears, and the results of this clash will be known. Last Saturday Furman beat the Citadel Bulldogs by a good margin, 30 to 14. Along with the splendid record already made by this eleven, the above fact foretells a defeat if comparative scores talk. But it is unsafe to bank on this, and the Wildcats will fight to a finish to return home victorious. The game following soon after the battle with Wake Forest will be an item against the Wildcats. State put up a good fight against Carolina last Thursday, but the latter proved too much and came out on the upper end, 14 to 0. The State fought harder against Carolina than they will against any other squad, but it availed them nothing. It still maintained that Davidson and State are not far apart in their comparative scores, and the contest in Charlotte is going to be a scrap worth witnessing. Clemson was idle during the past week. At least, no scores could be found indicating whom she played. The Tigers have been setting a fast pace, and when the Wildcats make their second journey to the Sandlapper State they will find a scrapping bunch and their hands full. Carolina is then met at Chapel Hill. Carolina’s record is already well known, she having defeated Wake Forest, Trinity, and State, leaving Davidson as the only team between her and state honors. Should Davidson defeat State, then this game will come in for an excessive amount of interest. The final fracas between Trinity in Charlotte on Thanksgiving. Last Saturday William and Mary piled up three touchdowns against the Methodists, and Carolina outplayed her entirely a week before. The outcome of the Trinity-State and Trinity-Wake Forest battles will speak for some more comparative scores. Until then it is a matter of indefinite speculation as to the relative strength of the two teams.

DR. RUSKIN, EXPLORER (Continued from page 1)
As a member of the Cherry-Karten Expedition into northern India some interesting motion pictures are shown entering the jungles and following the tiger on the back of elephants. Juggling with poison snakes and Hindoo snake charmers of India, as well as other curious people of that country, is no less interesting than the tiger hunt. As the scenes are thrown upon the screen, Doctor Ruskin will tell the habits and peculiar traits of the wild beasts and half savages they encountered. The pictures were made at a tremendous cost and seven men were killed during the various trips into the jungles.

The entire proceeds of the sale of tickets will go to the Davidson Public Schools for the purchase of Visual Aid equipment.

WILDCATS BOW (Continued from page 1)
Three times in the shadow of their goal posts, the Wildcats flung back the invaders on four plays and halted the onrushing Baptists who had swept down from the middle of the field with an irresistible attack. Rackley and Greason were the outstanding stars for the Baptists. Both skirted the ends and broke through the line for long gains. On the defense, Rackley was the star. He stopped the Wildcat runners time after time on off-tackle plays. The Baptist line was responsible for the steady gains made by the backs. They outweighed the Davidson forwards 15 pounds to the man and tore great gaping holes in the line for the runners to drive through. Shepperd and Faison were in the limelight for the Wildcats. Gig's punting was above par, and he was the chief ground gainer for the Wildcats. ‘Lias recovered a fumbled punt in the final period and gave the Presbyterians their best chance to score, but he stopped many a runner when a miss would have meant a Baptist touchdown. Davidson won the toss and elected to defend the north goal. Shepherd kicked 50 yards to Griffin who returned the ball 22 yards. Two plays gained only 3 yards and Rackley punted 22 yards to Davidson’s 40-yard line. The Wildcats gained 6 yards on three plays and Gig punted to the 10-yard line. Rackley punted 17 yards to Hendrix who fumbled, Wake Forest recovering. Again the Baptists were forced to punt but the Wildcats had lost their chance. Hendrix received on his 35-yard line and returned 7 yards. Hendrix ran through left tackle for an 8-yard gain but was knocked out of his arms into the arms of Greason. Fumbles by Hendrix proved costly. Only once did the Wildcats fail to gain on two plays and Shepherd punted 45 yards. On a reverse tackle play, Greason broke through the Wildcat line, evaded Hendrix, and got away for the lone touchdown of the game. Pagano failed to kick the goal. Score, Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.

Davidson elected to receive the kickoff, and Rackley punted to the 3-yard line, Hendrix returning 20 yards. Failing to make the first down in three attempts, Shepherd punted to Wake Forest's 25-yard line, Rackley returning eight. After two more plays the quarter ended.

Second quarter: Wake Forest punted to Davidson's 42-yard line. Shepherd and Black failing to gain, Davidson punted to Wake Forest's 32-yard line. On the next play, Wake Forest was penalized 15 yards for holding. Wake Forest punted and the ball hit Davis, a Wake Forest man falling on the ball. Rackley punted to the Wildcats’ 5-yard line. Davidson failed to gain on two plays and Shepherd punted to the Baptists’ 42-yard line. After making a first down and little attempts, Rackley punted to Davidson's 10-yard line. Black failed to gain, Hendrix made one yard and Shepherd punted, returning five yards. The Baptists drew a 15-yard penalty and 18 yards to fourteen yards over left tackle. Hendrix nabbing him before he got away. Three plays netted Wake Forest nine yards, and on the next play Hendrix threw Rackley for a 5-yard loss, the ball going to Davidson on her own 12-yard line. Shepherd made 7 yards, Failing by one foot to make the first down, Greason made nine yards over right tackle. Greason made the first down on the next play, followed by five more yards, and the half ended. Score, Wake Forest 6, Davidson 0.

Second half: Rackley kicked off to Hunt on Davidson's 10-yard line, Hunt returning 15 yards. Shepherd made four yards in two attempts. Shepherd punted to Wake Forest's 32-yard line. Three plays netted five yards, and a drop kick failed; Davidson's ball on her 20-yard line. Davidson made the first down and kicked after three more trials. Wake Forest returned the punt. After gaining four yards, a forward pass, Hendrix to Lindamood, netted 28 yards. (Continued on page 8)

Pay more and use the pen that gives your thought free rein—the black-lacquer-red Duofold—the fountain pen classic. Parker Duofold is not only handsomer than gold—its color makes it hard to lose. Its balanced swing and super-smooth point make it a fascinating pen to use—a point no style of writing can distort, no years of use can wear away. Get the $7 Over-size Duofold or $5 Duofold Jr. or Lady Duofold now, and you're fixed for life. Neat gold pocket-clip or ring-end for ribbon or chain included free.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN

FOR SALE BY WHITE DRUG CO.
W. S. HENDERSON