6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 21, 1923

Davidson Professor Travels Through Romance Countries of Old World

Dr. W. R. Grey, Vice-President of The College, Accompanied by Mrs. Grey Tours Europe

Dr. W. R. Grey, professor of Latin at Davidson College, has returned from a trip to Europe, embracing an itinerary
of Great Britain, and several continental countries. During his stay of nearly four and a half months in Europe, Dr.
Grey spent the major portion of his time at Rome and several other points in Italy, where he was engaged
in active research work in the Latin language and literature. He arrived in the United States the first week of
September, and is now back at this institution where he will continue as head of the Latin department.

Dr. Grey has many interesting incidents to relate concerning his trip through this section of Europe which is rich in
historical association and relics of the past. Although engaged in study most of the time, he made visits to nearly
all the most interesting cities and towns in Italy. He was joined by Mrs. Grey in Rome, on the 10th
of July, and after his work was finished at Rome, both he and Mrs. Grey enjoyed several weeks of sightseeing
in Switzerland, France and England.

“One of the most interesting incidents of my stay in Italy,” said Dr. Grey, “was in the city of Pompeii,
and the excavations that have been going on there for over a hundred years.” He said that the excavations that
have disclosed so much of this remarkable ancient city are now in progress; about three-fifths of the city having been
excavated. The city was covered to a depth of 20 feet by volcanic ashes, not lava, which is the supposition
of most people. Dr. Grey added that this city, near the ever-smouldering Vesuvius, was the home of 20,000 people at
the time of its destruction (in 79 A. D.), about 2,000 of whom were killed.

He also told of trips to Naples, the Alpine mountains, the Sabian mountains, where stand the remains of Horace’s summer
home, and other places. One place, Paestum, is the site of three Greek temples, of which only the columns remain,
but still show the artistry of the earlier settlers. Ostia, another place visited by Dr. Grey, was the seaport of
Rome, when the Eternal City was in its glory. The Forum and the Coliseum “were among the most wonderful ruins
in Rome,” remarked Dr. Grey. However, they do not surpass the new modern monument to King Victor Emmanuel, which consumed
20 years in the building and is one of the most beautiful structures in the world. It stands on the
hill formerly occupied by the old Roman temple to Juno. Venice, Milan, Bologna, and Pisa, were visited in turn by
Dr. and Mrs. Grey on their return trip. Venice, with its beautiful buildings and the leaning tower at Pisa, were
objects of great interest.

On the return journey, Dr. and Mrs. Grey spent a short while in Switzerland and three weeks in Paris. From
thence they went to England, where some time was spent in London and the Stratford country that was the home
of Shakespeare.

Dr. Grey said that as a whole the political situation in Italy seems to be good since Mussolini has taken
the reins of government. “He is not so popular among the lower laboring classes as he has done much to
dispel the strikes and riots that were so common for a while.” He remarked on the Christian Endeavor Expert Class
from minor ailments.

The camp was well cared for, being much better than the one held the summer before. The general health was
much better than heretofore. None of the Davidson representation was sick except for two or three who suffered from minor
ailments. Captain Wainbertz, who commands the special arms company and who is a recent graduate of Fort Benjamin special arms
school, spoke very highly of the Davidson men.

J. A. “Fats” Joyner was the only one from Davidson that attended the Civilians’ Military Training Camp. He took the
Blue course which corresponds to the Senior course of R. O. T. C. He was quite the “big noise” in
all military activities, acting as company commander sometimes; as major of the battalion once, and as a platoon officer the
rest of the time. While Joyner did not show up so well in the gallery practice here last winter he
covered himself with both mud and glory at the C. M. T. camp, having no trouble in qualifying as an
expert rifleman. Joyner made an easy second place on the C. M. T. camp team representing the Fourth Corps area
and as a result of this he was discharged two days ahead of camp in order to get to Camp
Perry, O., for the opening of the competition shooting. He will remain at Camp Perry until the close of the
competition, September 25th.

“Fats” was discharged from the C. M. T. camp, recommended for the certificate of a second lieutenant and to be
commissioned as such as soon as he reaches the required age.

MINISTERIAL BAND RENEWS ACTIVITIES

Dr. B. Walthall, president of the Ministerial Band, at its opening meeting last Sunday made a short and pointed talk,
welcoming back the old members, and throwing wide the doors to the Freshman members of the band. He urged upon
his hearers more sincerity and pointed out the fact that the ministerial students hold an important place in molding the
religious atmosphere of the campus.

Lee McLean pointed out what should be the proper relation of the ministerial students among themselves. He said the spirit
of Christ, the spirit of brotherly love should dominate the members of a band who are preparing themselves for full-time
Christian service.

Hayden Hollingsworth gave an inspiring address on the relation of the Ministerial Band to the campus and its immediate surroundings.
He spoke of the ideals that ministerial candidates should set up, and pointed out that having ideals and living up
to them are two separate and entirely different things.

A. M. Martin was the last speaker on the program. He outlined in an interesting manner the relation of the
Ministerial Band to the Church. In part he said: “The Church back home is looking to us as the ministers
of tomorrow. The entire Church is expecting of us that we develop into men able to take the places of
the ministers of today. It is our duty to prepare ourselves to become men that not only the Church, but
Christ, will be glad to own as His.”

A large number of new men were present who received a cordial welcome to the band. They will be received
in a welcome feed to be held Saturday night after the show.

WILDCATS WIN HONORS AT MILITARY CAMPS

(Continued from page 1)

The guards, who will have to bear the brunt of the line rushes, will be chosen from White, McCauley, Long,
Smith, and Ford, while Briggs is giving Fields a struggle for the pivot position.

The flanks are well taken care of, Captain ’Lias Faison, Nappy Davis, and Dan Mallory are all back from last
year’s varsity, and Baker, captain of last year’s Freshman eleven looks good for a couple of varsity games this year.

In the backfield things are rounding into shape. “Gig” Shepard, conqueror of Carolina, way back yonder in ’20 is plunging
through the scrubs like a torpedo, while Hunt, DeArmond, and Hendrix, are all back at their old positions. Added with
these, Flake Laird and Wick Black, of last year’s Freshman team, are showing up well as back-field men. Laird, although
his work stood out in three varsity battles last Fall, did not earn a letter, he is bound to get
into most of the games this Fall. His punting will be depended upon along with Shepard’s to keep the pigskin
out of the Wildcat’s back yard. Wick Black is receiving much comment for his line plunging in recent scrimmages. Built
short and hard as a nail, Wick is made of the stuff that it takes to make good as an
athlete. Buck’s open field runs are attracting attention of the coaches.

Whether or not the eleven which will be made up of selections from the above named men will be successful,
no one will say at this time. The coaches are working out what they hope to have; aSpeedy ma- Ten
boys represented Davidson College last summer at the R.O.T.C. camp held at Camp McClellan, near Anniston, Ala. The representation was
evenly divided between the pres- All of the Davidson men had target practice with special arms and all of them
succeeded in qualifying. Three of the ten took machine gun work and qualified as experts.

The Davidson rifle team showed up considerably better than the year before, rating better than the universities against which they
competed. They defeated State College by five places, making up for the defeat that Davidson suffered at their hands in
the gallery practice last winter. All the men from Davidson qualified in the physical test and captured one first place
and other places in other events which put Davidson ahead in the university camp. As a prize for the leading
college, Davidson was awarded a cup which is given to the college making the best record each year.

The Christian Endeavor Expert class of Davidson College has armed itself with many new recruits, along with the old men
who have re-enlisted in the war to make Christian Endeavor go over the top this year. The class was highly
successful in its many campaigns last year, and is hoping to accomplish even more this year.

When the first team starts to play against Elon Saturday, the idea of beating Elon by so many tens of
points will not be the uppermost in the students' minds. The latter will have their eyes turned towards the opening
of a new era in Davidson’s athletic history. Richardson Field will get its first baptism of athletic fire.

A very pleasant trip home is reported by both Dr. and Mrs. Grey. According to Dr. Grey’s remarks, European traveling
seems to have been revived to where it was before the World War. A number of American tourists were met
in the various countries of Europe.

Whether the season will be successful or otherwise, no one can say, but hopes are running high. The players are
showing the old spirit that our forerunners installed on the campus. The new coach has the ability. Success is expected
by both students and alumni. Time can only answer the many queries. Manager Bradford is to be congratulated upon the
schedule that he has drawn up for the 1923 Davidson football varsity. The program calls for ten games. Of these,
the Clemson and Citadel gridiron battles will be renewed after a lapse of time. The Georgia Tech game is missing.
Other changes, minor ones, are also noted on the card.

As is the custom, Elon comes to Davidson for the opening battle. Last year the score ran “down” to 24
to nothing when the 1922 team got off to a bad start. This year the Christians seem to be shot
to pieces. Perry of the Elon backfield will not be seen in the lineup according to advance information. He was
a giant of the Elon athletic teams and will be greatly missed. However, Elon is depending upon new material and
some promising Freshmen to fill up the holes. The game with Elon will be Davidson’s first on the menu. No
walk-away is hoped for as much as a good showing is expected.

The Wildcats, on the week following, will venture down to Rock Hill, S.C., to avenge themselves on P.C. for the
defeat last year at Clinton. The South Carolina Presbyterians have been training hard and appear to have the idea that
they can whip Davidson again. A large attendance is expected at Rock Hill for the game.

V.P.I. will be met at Blacksburg, Va., this fall, thus carrying out the plan of playing on the campus of
one of the teams every other year. As usual, the Gobblers will have a strong team. The contest will be
in the nature of an attempted revenge on the Wildcats by the Virginia eleven that was held to a tie
on Sprunt Field last fall. Still more interest will be turned towards the game because of the fact that Coach
Younger will be sending a team on the V.P.I. field to beat the eleven that he coached last year.

Citadel comes to Richardson Field for a game on October 13th. The Bulldogs are also newcomers on the local card.
Their elevens have been noted for swiftness and canny ability to put up good fights. The game will be the
second and last campus game for Davidson this year.

On October 20th, Wake Forest will be met at Wearn Field, Charlotte. The mighty Heckman has had his day and
the Baptists must find another man to fill his shoes. Prospects are not so bright for Wake Forest this fall
on the gridiron.

Furman will be battled at Columbia, S.C., October 4th, during the South Carolina fair. Advanced dope has it that Furman
will be about as strong as ever and the Wildcats will have a hard battle against them. It will be
“Gig” Shepard’s sole desire to beat the South Carolina Baptists this year. He came near doing it last season.

Then comes the N.C. State game at Charlotte on November 3rd. State has lost several stars through graduation and must
build over a red and white machine to keep pace with other Carolina elevens.

Clemson will be met at Clemson this fall. Efforts of the Charlotte legion men to have the game transferred to
the Queen City failed. Clemson and Davidson have not met for several years on the gridiron. The Tigers will give
the Wildcats a stiff battle, judging from the way they have been holding the Praying Colonels of Centre the past
two years.

The place for the Carolina-Davidson game has not been decided. The date for the battle is the same as last
year, November 17th. The game in Charlotte last fall was played before a big crowd and the same city bids
fair to get the game. Carolina has a backfield as good as the one she had in 1922, but is
having trouble with the line.

Davidson will close their season with Trinity at Charlotte. Furman has been met in the past on the last Thursday
in November but the athletic officials have seen fit to play the Methodists this year on Turkey Day. To avenge
the defeat handed them at Greensboro last year will be the purpose of the Wildcats this fall. Coach Steiner is
hard at work shaping a Blue and White eleven at Durham but the shortage of experienced men may hinder his
progress. This game will close the gridiron season with both institutions. By this time the world will know what Coach
has done during his first three months with Davidson as head coach.

FRESHMAN CLASS (Continued from page 1)

The fact is that the aspect of the class is that of extreme youth. A committee of the most eminent
psychiatrists, palm-readers, oak-readers, osteopaths, and geologists, which have been baying on the trail of the final solution of the question,
maintains that the age of the class has been miscalculated by at least a millennium, four score decades, six and
twenty years, and possibly some months, not exceeding twelve. In fact, the members of said committee maintain that the class
is yet in its infancy, for as may be observed by any student optimetrics, many of them have not opened
their eyes yet, and many still swaddle their clothes.

Another anomaly which staggers the profound thinker on this subject is that the class is both large and small. Twenty-four
tens of Freshmen make a large pile, and a structure which includes in it the Fourth Story is indeed lofty,
and yet on the whole there has never been a smaller, more toothpickish, more shuhite class since the days of
Gulliver. There should be hesitancy in bringing forward the fact that three members of the class wear short pants, for
that would be misleading. Considering dimensions, at least 50 percent of them should be compelled to live and move and
respire in similar short pants.

There is little need to go into details concerning the loudness of the Freshmen. Who has been on campus since
the opening of college and has not noticed their loudness of mouth, headgear, and color? Yet for all their loudness
they are noted and distinguished for dumbness. This last named characteristic has been noticed in class and out, on so
many occasions, by so many people, and under such a variety of conditions, that it would be impossible to set
down the ten-thousandth part of it. In fact, if the dumbness of the Freshman class, or its unparalleled ignorance which
is equal and opposite thereto, were to be portrayed fairly, even only in minute part, the reader would doubtless faint
to the earth in coils. An idea of some of the milder instances of this manifestation of ignorance may be
had when it is known that “new boys” have wanted to know if they might not have single rooms in
the dormitories, because of recent appendicitis operations and similar reasons. Others have requested that faculty members parade the halls of
their sleeping apartments, in order to ensure quietness during the earlier part of the night. Others were so ignorant that
they brought with them buckets, dippers, washtubs, curling irons, combination toothbrush and nail files, nightcaps, and bed warmers. Others wanted
to know why there were Freshman regulations, why there weren’t movies every night, why they charged admission to the movies
when they did have them, why upperclassmen didn’t make it a habit to pour water at meals, why, if a
parallelepiped was a pipe with parallel sides, a parallelogram was not a gram with parallel sides, and why encyclopedias didn’t
have wheels!

Stated scientifically, the ignorance of the fresh class approaches “VERY” as a limit, and it is so extremely very that
it is exceeding.

SERVICE ANNOUNCING AGENCY FOR DAVIDSON MAYHEW’S CLEANING WORKS 2nd Floor Knox Bldg. SATISFACTION
