4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

Open Forum

For the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express themselves and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.

F. M. Rhea Fellows, it is all over but the SHOUTING. Well, we can't do much of that. But are we downhearted? No! Our team has fought games and how we played them will show us that. Football season is over. All we can do now is talk over the past and look forward to the future. We can't kick. Our teams have been there from the first whistle to the last. Our coaches have trained a true pack of fighting Wildcats, but our pep hasn't been what it should have been. Sit down and think this over. Chew and digest it. Get in there and fight them, fellows; every man behind the teams which represent not only our student body but that spirit that is a heritage from the past.

What about basketball, wrestling, track, tennis, baseball? All together fellows. Are we downhearted? No! —Spirit.

WHAT’S WRONG WITH ’27?

On last Sunday night there were several Freshmen who were on the train going from Statesville. Evidently, these men were feeling fine, all being friends, and wished to show their spirit to the other passengers on the train, but it was not well received on the part of these other passengers. The conductor continually asked them to be more quiet, telling them that he had complaints from passengers but they kept up their jollity, not listening to anything he said; in fact, asking him what he had to do with what they were doing. When they got off at Davidson the passengers applauded because they were about to get rid of them. Does that show the true Davidson spirit? Fellows, protect the good name of our college and of ourselves by playing the part of a gentleman in every place. These men most surely did not realize just the position in which they were, but we can not ever tell what someone will say about what we do. Remember this, fellows; do your part toward keeping up the true Davidson spirit, and let's keep it the best anywhere in the South or the country anywhere. —An Observer.

PROSPECTS FOR GOOD QUINT ARE BRIGHT

(Continued from page 1)

Head basketball. Last year was a typical one with him. After winning the championship of the Old Dominion, the fighting Technicians battled their way to the third round in the Southern Conference Tournament, in Atlanta, numbering among their victims the Vanderbilt quintet. Assistant Coach Rawson, too, had an enviable record; while at Georgia, he won undisputed possession of the position of winning guard on the All-Southern quintet. Even the most conservative fan acknowledges that Wildcat stock is strong. Abundant material, and superior coaches, combined with the Wildcat fighting spirit is to be dreaded by all opponents. Much speculation and interest has been created by the announcement of the tentative schedule which includes a number of new but well-known rivals. The schedule follows:

January 14—Charlotte “Y”—Charlotte.
January 17—Statesville.
January 19—Carolina—Charlotte.
February 3—Guilford—Davidson.
February 3—Trinity—Charlotte.
February 6—University of Florida—Davidson.

THE ATHLETIC COACH

A hue and cry has been lifted in condemnation of the athletic coaching system throughout the United States. The commercialization of college sports is suggested as the ultimate result of coached teams, and a trembling finger of warning points to the death of college spirit. “Give up your paid coaches, or give up athletics,” is the homiletic advice of the self-appointed sports reformers. Possibly these prophetic personages have played the game themselves; possibly they have seen service in a football uniform or a gym shirt—but very probably they have never been in an athlete’s shoes, and they know nothing of the athlete’s position. It’s a “heads-I-win tails-you-lose” bet that these reformers of the sporting world have never quickened their pace above the rapid motion of a chess game, and that they would judge a gridiron to be a pressing club implement.

What branch of reasoning could warrant the expulsion of coaching staffs? Would it be reasonable to take the teachers from the classrooms of our colleges and universities? The game of studies is a contest, one student matching wits with another for a place of supremacy in life. The game of football is a contest, one athlete matching strength and skill with another for a place of supremacy in the sporting world. The student represents himself, and his alma mater; the athlete is working for himself, and his college. The athlete—the student; each one works toward a shining goal. The coach—the professor; each one lends himself to guide his understudies to success. Tutoring is permissible in the one! It is permissible in the two!

“But it is a battle between coaches,” urges the would-be reformer. The strength of our college teams cannot be determined by inter-collegiate matches. The best coach wins. And so he does! In the same sense that the best college professor turns out the best students, the best coach turns out the best teams. It is the natural thing to expect. Were it not for this fact, there would be no need for coaches; the Greek or Latin or English teacher might serve as athletic director. But it is not to be supposed that the success of a team lies wholly in the hands...of the coach. The athletes who play the game and who face the brunt of the opposing attack, when the fire is hot and when their leader is one of their own number, are the men upon whom the burden rests. It is true that they have been tutored by a guiding hand, but is that to be scored against the tutor? His work is indispensable, but we must give some credit to the inherent ability and the possibilities of development of each player.

It may be true that college athletics are facing commercialization, but the reason must be assigned to something other than the coaching system. Perhaps it is the remuneration of athletes, perhaps it is the meddling hand of the outsider who would make a fortune out of the college teams, perhaps it is something else; the trouble cannot be laid at the feet of the coaches.

(This department is conducted by the editor, their opinions on any matter which might arise.)

Football is the great college game of America. Therefore, it is a gentleman’s game. Only gentlemen are supposed to play it. As a gentleman’s game, it should be held apart from those sports which have fallen into disrepute because of their exploitation by professional players and gamblers, and reserved for the clean competition of gentlemen.—King College News.

“College teachers need to acquire interest in students rather than in subjects and interest in the problems of the community,” declared Chancellor Samuel P. Capen, of the University of Buffalo, at the annual convocation of the University of the State of New York.—Rich.-Col.

Arrangements have been made by Dr. Jacobs for the Oglethorpe students to have music during the lunch hour on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, and on other days soup will be served to equalize the loss of the Petrel’s band of musicians.—Petrel.

Should success in the end crown the persistence of the enterprisers, the Honor Canteen may become an established institution. It may be the beginning of a tradition of honor that will exalt our University to a position it could not otherwise attain. It may fail and have to be abandoned on account of the dishonesty of the hundredth man.—Red and Black.

College buildings are in many ways public buildings. Visitors are continually passing in and out of them, and what they see there makes a deep impression on them. They judge the students and incidentally the college by the manner in which the buildings are kept.—Maroon and Gold.

The University of California has suffered a great loss from the recent Berkeley fire. The homes of eighteen fraternities, sororities, and clubs were either totally or partially destroyed.—Exchange.

The Furman Service Flag, along with the names of the alumni who served in the war, was displayed in the Library on Armistice Day. This flag contains one hundred ninety stars. However, this is not the total number of alumni who were in service. Then, too, a number of these stars are gold, denoting those who made the supreme sacrifice. Furman may justly be proud of her service flag.—The Hornet.

A college year may be compared to a football game; it is divided into four quarters, and the game is never won or lost in the first quarter—so don't be discouraged if your grades are not satisfactory at the end of the half-semester. Accept failure as a warning—as an incentive to harder work—rather than let it put a damper on your enthusiasm. Your first failure does not signify your inability to achieve real success in the end. Take this as a good fight this season, a survey of the Orange and Blue.

A little moonlight now and then marries off the best of men.—Harvard Lampoon.

Any person who has represented other colleges or universities in any sport cannot represent Cornell in that same sport. This ruling is expected to greatly influence Cornell's future athletics.—Exchange.

A document unearthed by workmen at the home of John Hunt, in Plain City, Ohio, included an entry as to the college expenses of Dr. Hunt when he was attending Brown College in 1839. The items are: Tuition, $12; room rent $3. The total expenses for three months were only $27.21.—Greenville News.

CIVIC CLUB LIBRARY

Through a book shower given last week, and gifts from friends in New York, 97 books have been added and a new impetus has been given to the circulation of books among the young people of the village. At the Tuesday meeting, Mrs. W. R. Grey made a delightful talk on her experiences in Europe during two months of last summer. Mrs. Grey had a number of pictures illustrating and adding interest to all she had to say. A large number of members and visitors were present. The following officers were elected for 1924:
President—Mrs. L. Brady.
Vice-President—Mrs. Olin White.
Secretary—Mrs. Earl Lathery.
Treasurer—Mrs. J. R. Withers.

Lost and Found

Lost—A small gold Waltham watch. R. P. R. engraved on back. Please return, if found, to W. Speight Adams.
Strayed—One hand-saw from 13 N. Barracks. Please return and oblige. Claude McIntosh.
Lost—Parker fountain pen. Left in R. O. T. C. blouse pocket when traded in armory. Please return to J. Clyde Barrington, 4S. B.
Lost—An annual, the Charlestonian. Please return to Kuykendall, 114 West.
Found—Sunday afternoon, on Athletic Field, a red, slip-over sweater. Owner can get same at 15 N. B. C. L. Bragaw.

LIBRARY NEWS

During the past week, several new books that are very valuable for reference work and recreation have been added to the Library. “The People of Palestine,” by Elihu Grant, is a vivid and valuable description of the Bible lands today. “Men Who Are Making America,” by B. C. Forbes, is a group of scientific studies which point out the real reasons behind every success. The author has led some of the most successful men in the country into making very interesting confessions. Ernest Gruening has recently edited a group of analyses or stories of the separate commonwealths that compose our nation. The name of the book is “These United States.” “An Old Castle and Other Essays,” by Prof. Caleb T. Winchester, is a truly representative memorial volume of essays of Englishmen of notable memory of the Elizabethan period. A group of short stories by A. S. M. Hutchinson, including “The Eighth Wonder,” is the latest addition. The author is popularly known as a novelist, and some of his best work is to be found in this book. These stories are widely varied in theme, but all contain the Hutchinson characteristics of humor and vivid, intense drama.

Among some of the other new books placed in the Library are: “Woodrow Wilson's Case for the League of Nations,” in which Woodrow Wilson states his arguments for the League of Nations; “New Lanterns In Old China,” a collection of interesting stories of Chinese life, by Theodora M. Inglis; “Sonnets and Other Poems,” by Henry Aylett Sampson; “Seeing the Middle West,” by John T. Faris; “Young India,” by Mahatma Gandhi; and “The Older Universities of England,” an interesting historical account of the famous old universities of England, by Albert Mansbridge, an English scholar and lecturer of some note.

PASTORS WILL SPEAK AT MINISTERIAL MEETINGS

The Ministerial Band has launched out on a new career as to life and usefulness. In accordance with plans made recently, a minister from one of the neighboring churches will address the Band every Sunday until Christmas. For the spring work, plans have not yet been perfected. Rev. R. A. White, D.D., pastor of the First Church, Mooresville, spoke on Sunday, taking his subject from the first chapter of Philippians: “For me to live is Christ.” In delivering his theme, Dr. White made it his object to prove what is already realized and acknowledged by men preparing for the ministry, that unless Jesus Christ fills the main place in one’s heart and is the actuating motive of all his works, there is no real life—only a form of existence. “Though that is true of all men,” said Dr. White, “especially does it apply to ministerial candidates. They, planning to devote their lives to the service of man, require a stronger impulse toward faithfulness and grace than their lay brothers, for it is true that a preacher can lead only as far as he is able to go.” In closing, Dr. White stressed the need of all men, namely, a great model or pattern after which they may make their lives.

Three victories and seven defeats, but that doesn’t spell a fighting team—which is what the Wildcats were from beginning to end.

Be fair! Don’t judge Billy Sunday until you have heard him yourself. No report, verbal or printed, can do him perfect justice.