: 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

Pandemics Win Junior-Senior Debate Finals
A. P. Hudgins and Lee McLean Chosen as Medalists

By winning the finals of the Junior-Senior debate from the Philanthropic Society, December 13th, the Pandemic Society continues to hold
an unbroken record of victories in the inter-society debates. Since the organization of the society in the spring of 1922,
the Pandemics have won the Junior-Senior debate for two successive years. The query was: "Resolved: That Congress at its coming
session should enact legislation to relieve the wheat growers of the United States by guaranteeing them a price sufficient to
net at least ten per cent over the cost of wheat as estimated by government statistics." L. B. Gibbs, D.
B. Walthall, and A. P. Hudgins composed the winning team, debating on the negative side of the question. R. H.
Brown, Lee McLean, and J. E. Holshouser upheld the affirmative side of the question. A. P. Hudgins was the medalist
for the winning team and will receive the Junior-Senior debater’s medal of the Pandemic Society. Lee McLean receives the Phi
Society medal. Dr. T. L. Lingle and Professors W. W. Wood and F. K. Fleagle acted as judges.

METROPHILIAN

The Metrophilian Society met Tuesday night in Phi Hall. The regular program was dispensed with and a declamation contest held.
There were six contestants, each of whom delivered a well-prepared declamation. The declaimers were: E. T. Pullen, his subject being
“The World’s Greatest Battlefield;” R. B. Parker, “The Violin;” L. D. Wharton, “The Tomb of Napoleon;” D. H. Scanlon, “Scipio's
Address to His Army;” J. L. McDaniel, “The Home in the Government;” and J. McIntosh, “Citizenship.” The judges were G.
M. Morrow, W. H. Matheson, and A. M. McBryde. They cast their ballots in favor of E. T. Pullen, first
place; R. B. Parker, second place; and L. D. Wharton, third place. The vote of the judges was unanimous in
all three selections.

Charlotte Fire Causes Loss of Sleep to Students

Awakened from their Christmas dreams by the harsh clanging of the Mooresville fire trucks as they thundered down the Davidson
College road, the students with one sweet accord rushed out on the campus, Sunday night, rubbing their eyes at the
sound of “FIRE.” Some, thinking that all the dormitories were on fire, began hauling out their personal belongings into the
cold drizzling rain that was falling. Clad only in negligee and in entire deshabille, some started running up and down
the campus with wild-eyed looks inquiring the whereabouts of the conflagration. Finding that the fire was reported as being at
Charlotte, a large portion of Davidson’s own rushed out on Main street seeking rides which would carry them to the
burning city. Rumors were rife everywhere that half of Charlotte had burnt down and that the other half was scorching.
A few of the boys managed to slow down the cars that were burning the ozone on the Charlotte trail,
others chartered U-Pushems and piled in four deep. Captain George and Major Hearn represented many Davidson Boys who caught rides
to Queen City to watch the blaze.

Town News

Captain and Mrs. Hearn are receiving congratulations on the birth of a daughter, Jean Elizabeth, born last Saturday. Mrs. W.
F. Hall, of Statesville, spent the weekend with Mrs. C. M. Richards. Professor Fleagle made an interesting talk at prayer
meeting last Wednesday evening.

“Nearly everybody is stuck up about something. Some people are even proud they aren’t proud.”—Billy Sunday.

“The man who lives for himself alone lives for a mean fellow.”—Billy Sunday.

BE IN OPERATION SOON

The town of Davidson is to be congratulated on its newly completed and up-to-date water system. This system is the
very best that modern engineering can secure and will provide an ample supply of water to the town at all
times. A tank with a hundred thousand gallons capacity has been erected at the proper elevation to give sufficient pressure.
The mains are eight inches in diameter and will provide for the future expansion of the town. Fire hydrants have
been placed at intervals in order that disastrous fires may be reduced to a minimum. A 100,000-gallon capacity tank or
reservoir has been placed at the pumping station to ensure a reserve supply at all times. Deep wells have been
bored in the western part of town but as yet have not given any water. The engineers, however, are expecting
to strike a strong vein soon. Two turbine pumps will pump the water from the well to the reservoir and
from there to the tank. Mr. Van Sant, engineer of building and grounds, states that when the college is relieved
from furnishing the town with water the college will have an abundant reserve supply at all times.

Few men on the campus realize the extensive Sunday School work being done by students. Every Sunday afternoon five teams
of men, numbering from two to six in each, set out from the college to teach in Sunday Schools. To
Oak Grove, nearly six miles from here, goes S. E. Hagar, a special student; to Brawleys, a station reached by
going through Mooresville, go Leighton Green and Joe McJunkin. The nearest is the Mill Chapel, just across the tracks. Mr.
Jackson has spent a great deal of time among the people who attend there. Marion Murray and Yeargan are helping
him this year. Some of the students reach Cornelius, where the field is large, and as a result somewhat neglected.
Tag Guiton, Wade Allison, and several others are carrying on the work there in Mr. Klontz’s church.

TO THOSE WHO “GIVE” AT CHRISTMAS

This Christmas, which should bring happiness to every boy and girl, finds one in ten children menaced by a disease
that may sentence them to years of sickness and may even rob them of their lives. In the schools and
homes of this town are many children doomed to bitterly unhappy years unless we can reach them quickly. They are
the undernourished children, whose thin, hollow-chested bodies are fertile soil for the most dread of all diseases—tuberculosis.

HUDGIN RE-ELECTED HEAD OF VOLUNTEER BAND

Because of the efficient manner in which Perrin Hudgins has so ably led the band through the present term, last
Wednesday he was chosen again to lead and direct the affairs of the band next term. Other officers chosen were
Hugh Wells, vice-president; E. D. Witherspoon, treasurer; and Benton Wharton remains as secretary. These men will continue to carry on
the work of the band in a most efficient manner.

SEATS ON THE GOLF COURSE

The program of the society was especially good. The speakers were all well prepared and their subjects were very appropriate.
The question for debate was: “Resolved, That Governor Walton, of Oklahoma, should be acquitted.” A. P. Hudgins and R. H.
McIlwaine upheld the affirmative, and G. M. Ford and J. E. Moore debated on the negative. No declamation was given,
as the speaker was absent. An enlightening and interesting oration, “The Bonus Legislation,” was given by R. M. Carr. The
society then went into a business session. Plans are being made to run the Reporters Club on a much more
business-like basis than that which has been used heretofore. The president, A. M. Hurd, expects to conduct the meeting according
to parliamentary law, and he wishes the co-operation of the members in this plan. A secretary and treasurer has been
elected who will handle the funds and keep a record of the business transacted. Some new members are being taken
into the club, and it is thought that this organization is entering upon a period of greater activity.Uncle Sam and
sped along at the awful rate of 17 miles per hour, down the slick and slippery road. By 10 o'clock
a major portion of the student body was there at the scene of the blaze, which proved to be H.
C. Long’s store, a hardware store and part of Efird’s store. Several million rounds of ammunition stored in the hardware
store tried its best to entertain the spectators by popping off at intervals. Two or three Freshmen were seen on
the streets of Charlotte with overcoats thrown over their evening attire, while many were without hats and coats. Fresh Bell
thought the pumping engines were some kind of circus calliopes and wanted to know why they didn’t play. “Christy” Mathewson
saluted one of the National Guardsmen who was patrolling the streets, from force of habit, and asked him if the
automatic at his side would shoot. Several of those who rushed so furiously to Charlotte found vehicles going back to
their beloved campus rather scarce and were forced to camp all night at the station or hotels. Others, who were
more adventurous, essayed forth on the road leading back to Davidson and tried their luck hailing rides with varying success.

DOCTOR MacCONNELL RETURNS FROM HUNT IN SOUTH GEORGIA

Dr. J. W. MacConnell has just returned from a hunting trip in southern Georgia. Hilton Head Island is a famous
resort for hunters and fishermen in the winter. Beside the splendid fish which are caught here, many deer tempt the
sportsman. Although Dr. MacConnell did not get a shot at any of the big game, he brought back some delicious
venison. The party with which he went killed 11 deer. He says that in spite of the fact that he
did not get a deer, he had a fine time. Since the weather was balmy, he enjoyed the surf.

For the benefit of the weary golfer, three seats have been erected on the golf course, at the first, second,
and fifth tees.

Misses Katherine Porter, Kalista Hood, Gene Martin, Sophie Richards, Nina White, Nancy Grey, and Lilly Helper have returned from college
for the holidays. The Woman’s Auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church will entertain in the church parlors on Christmas Eve in
honor of the returned college girls and the Davidson students who remain here. The Christmas tree for the Presbyterian Sunday
School will be given as usual in Shearer Hall, late in the afternoon of the day before Christmas. On the
program committee are Misses Ellen Black, Dorothy Finlayson, and Sarah Lingle. The decorations are in charge of Mrs. Henderson’s class
of girls and Professor Gildersleeve’s class of boys.

ULSTER

To enjoy to the full the stinging out-of-doors days this winter, the warmth-without-weight of the new ulster is essential. Luxenberg
tailoring at unexampled low prices provides these luxury coats at the cost of an ordinary coat: $32.50 to $47.50.

Mrs. Richards entertained the Book Lovers’ Club last Friday afternoon. Mrs. Douglas lectured on “Christian and Byzantine Architecture.” Mrs. A.
Currie, Dr. C. M. Richards, and Mr. I. W. M. Hunter attended the Education Conference at Charlotte last week.

Manufactured and sold exclusively by NAT LUXENBERG & Bros.

“What scars have you to show.”—Billy Sunday.

New address: Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Our style memo book will be sent free, on request.

For High-Class PRINTING of every description and “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE, Davidsonian Office, Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub.
Co. Quality Printers.

A few dollars from everyone now can prevent this calamity to childhood. You hold in your hands the means of
buying health for children. We are selling the Christmas Seals that annually provide money to fight tuberculosis. With that money,
we can buy the most precious gift in the world—health—as a holiday offering to children whose day Christmas really is.
The Seals are one cent each. Buy all you can. Each time you put a Christmas Seal on a letter
or package, you are piling up health for little children.

Sincerely,
Louise Withers Sloan, Chairman.

FALL SOCIETY MEDAL WINNERS

The winners of the “Fall society medals” for the fall are:
Junior-Senior Debate—Eumenean, A. N. Moffett; Philanthropic, J. L. McLean; Pandemic, A. P. Hudgins; Metrophilian, A. C. Fresh-Soph Declamation—Eumenean, to be
held January 15th; Philanthropic, J. C. Barrington; Pandemic, H. L. Shaw; Metrophilian, E. T. Pullen.

The C. E. Training Class met on Sunday afternoon, at 1:15 o’clock in Shearer Hall. After the business of the
class was attended to, some interesting reports were given about the deputations of last Sunday. Five of the members went
to Mooresville. Doss and Bowie together outlined what was done there. They found a large promising society. G. D. Rogers
gave an interesting account of the deputation that he and J. M. Carr went on to Cooleemee. Both Garrison and
Ratchford enumerated some practical things for members to do in their home societies during the holidays.

OFFER

Opportunity of a Lifetime

Don’t spend your hard-earned money foolishly and buy for Father, Brother, Husband, or Sweetheart, a cheap gold-filled or plated watch.
Give him the best there is; it is the cheapest in the end, to be remembered forever. Limited quantity, genuine,
solid 14 (fourteen) karat Gold watches. Plain, engraved, thin or octagon shape. Elgin or Waltham movements, fifteen jeweled, or Illinois
twenty-one jeweled movements. Guarantee enclosed with every watch. Send Post Office order now, don’t delay, and receive watch immediately sent
to you, registered, fully insured, packed in an expensive, beautifully lined gift case. Act quick.

Wonderful 18 (eighteen) karat, solid-gold, white or green wrist watches, latest designs, octagon shape models, fully jeweled. The very thing
that you have wanted, and admired on others. Now in the reach of everybody. Get one while they last.

EXCLUSIVE WATCH CO.
1482 Broadway, N. Y. C.
Telephone Bryant 10259
