2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 6, 1923

CLASS GOOD BYE BASKETBALL FOOTBALL

JUNIORS vs. SENIORS BASKETBALL!

FINISH FIGHT Lenoir and Wofford and V. P. I. on 1924 Schedule Other Eight Teams Will Likely Keep Places on
Davidson Schedule

Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager of athletics, and Coach Monk Younger announce the following tentative schedule for the 1924
Davidson football team:

September 20—Elon at Davidson.
September 27—Presbyterian College of S. C. Undecided.
October 4—Wake Forest Undecided.
October 11—Wofford Undecided.
October 18—Lenoir at Davidson.
October 22—Furman at Columbia, S. C.
November 1—N. C. State Undecided.
November 8—Clemson at Davidson.
November 16—University of North Carolina at Davidson.
November 27—(Thanksgiving) Undecided.

For the first time in many years no team from the Old Dominion appears on the Davidson schedule. Efforts were
made and for some time it was thought that Hampden-Sidney would be played the coming year but finally a conflicting
date prevented this.

SPORTING GOODS Our Representative on the Campus The Commissary Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. 18 E. Trade St. Charlotte,
N. C.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.

Displace Citadel Wildcat Grid Card North Carolina and four South Carolina teams complete the list. With V. P. I. and
Citadel gone and in their places substituted Lenoir and Wofford, the 1924 schedule greatly resembles that of the recently closed
season. The team will get off to an early start when on September 20th they line up against Elon on
Richardson Field. The following Saturday P. C. will be played, probably at Rock Hill where the game was played this
fall. Wake Forest has been offered a game on October 4th but has never been heard from. On the following
Saturday Wofford will be played, a team that was on the Davidson schedule for several years but was dropped in
1923. The place for this game is not yet known. Lenoir, the opposition for the October 18 game, is a
newcomer on the Davidson schedule. Following this game only four days will be the Furman scrap at the Columbia Fair.
Raleigh will probably be the scene of the N. C. State game on November 1st. Clemson and University of North
Carolina will pay a visit to Richardson Field on November 8th and 15th, respectively. The season will probably wind up
with a Thanksgiving Day battle with Trinity.

The managers of the 1923 season did especially good work in placing six of the ten games played so that
the entire student body could witness them. The 1924 season will see at least four games on Richardson Field and
the student will probably be able to see two of the four games whose places are still undetermined. In preparation
for this heavy schedule, Coach Younger is planning two months of spring training—probably from February to April. Coach Tex Tilson
has been signed to help with this work. In this practice will be developed the nucleus of next year's squad.
In regard to the coaches for the coming season Dr. Douglas simply states, “The three coaches of the past season
will most probably remain at Davidson.”

GLEE CLUB EMBARKS (Continued from page 1)

Opera Gems (Selection) —Arranged by Mackie-Beyer Symphony Orchestra
De Blacksidin’ Brudder Parks
The Spaniard Lohengrin Messrs. McCain, DuPuy, Jones and Elkins
La Golden Drina Kalua String Quartet
Massenet D. G. Wilson
Salt Your Sugar Dixie Melody Seven
In This Hour of Softened Splendor Song of Love Glee Club

SHOES Davidson Representative J. P. HENDRIX 302 West Samples now on display WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE J. M. HENDRIX AND
COMPANY GREENSBORO NORTH CAROLINA

Interlude On The Road to Mandalay A. M. Martin

PART TWO Tell Me Not of a Lovely Lass

CLASS BASKETBALL STANDING
W L Pct
Seniors 4 1 .800
Juniors 3 2 .600
Sophomores 2 4 .333
Freshmen 2 4 .333

Good Schedule Planned For Yearling Quintet Coach Rawson to Have Charge of Fresh Cagers

A new day has dawned for Freshmen in basketball. This year they are going to have a regular team. One
that will make trips. Coach Rawson will have charge of this team. They will practice at night. The regular Varsity
team will practice in the afternoons. Coach Rawson will call for volunteers for this team from the entire Fresh class
in a few days. All Freshmen interested in basketball are urged to come out and try for the team. This
team will have a regular schedule. The trips it takes will not exceed six days, because of a faculty ruling
to that effect. R. W. Ocland is assistant manager, he is now working on the schedule. He hopes to have
the schedule completed in the next few days. A Freshman team like this has long been needed at Davidson. The
Fresh team will be the source from which the Varsity will receive its players in the future.

DAVIDSON JAZZ ORCHESTRA AIDS IN MINSTREL PERFORMANCE

On Friday night, November 16th, the Sharon school, about 10 miles from Statesville, presented the “Bol-Wee-Vel Minstrel.” Assisted by the
Davidson College Jazz Orchestra, it proved a great success. The auditorium was crowded until there was no standing room left.
The high expectations of the large crowd were by no means discouraged. The success of the performance was due largely
to the efforts of Mr. Carl Cathey, who, as principal of the school, has developed it wonderfully during the last
two years. Mr. Cathey graduated from Davidson in 1921. The Davidson Orchestra was given a supper at the schoolhouse after
the minstrel. There was so much left over that each member of the Orchestra was given a box of chicken,
sandwiches, cake, candy, etc. to bring back with him. The minstrel has had calls from several other places, which will
most likely be filled in the near future.

SPLENDID PICTURE MADE OF ENTIRE STUDENT BODY

Glee Club Messrs. McCain, DuPuy, Jones and Elkins
Last Night On The Back Porch —Dixie Melody Seven
Ten Thousand Years From Now Bal O. J. Allison
Glee Club O Davidson E. Shields

FRATERNITIES GIVE HOUSE PARTIES (Continued from page 1)

The Dramatic Club always presents one or more plays. On Sunday morning Dr. S. D. Gordon spoke at Church. Dr.
Gordon is from New York, and is one of the foremost Bible scholars of the present day. He spoke again
to the students at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday night.

“If you want to drive the devil out of the world, hit him with a cradle instead of a crutch.”—Billy
Sunday.

Symphony March: McFall
Overture—Raymond Thomas Symphony Orchestra
Midnight Rose Watt McCain
Glory of the Dawn O'Here
Proslill Bamba Parks

“If you want to drive the devil out of the world, hit him with a cradle instead of a crutch.”—Billy
Sunday.On Monday, November 26th, a picture of the Davidson student body was taken. After chapel, the four classes were grouped
on the open space just north of Elm Row. By 3:00 o'clock that afternoon, the photographer returned with the proofs.
This picture is remarkably clear for as large a group as 500 men. The students may obtain a print from
Moon's Studio, in Charlotte, for $1.50. If 100 can be sold, a wholesale rate of $1.00 each will be made.

The photograph of the D. C. student body will be a valuable memento of the '23-'24 session. It includes practically
everyone in the college. For this reason, it should be doubly valuable to some. Pictures were also made of the
rebuilt Watts Hall and the new Richardson athletic field.

“I know there is a devil, for two reasons: first, the Bible declares it; and second, I have done business
with him.” —Billy Sunday.

“There is more power in a mother’s hand than in a king’s scepter.” —Billy Sunday.

Juniors Administer First Defeat of Season to Scrapping Senior Outfit
Captain Morrison Stars For Victors in Stellar Exhibition of Court Game

Last Tuesday night, the Juniors, playing air-tight basketball, won from the Senior quintette by the score of 29 to 13.
The Seniors started the game with a rush, and after the first few minutes were in the lead, 8-1. The
Juniors began to climb and when the half ended were in the lead, 9-7. Neither side did very much shooting
during the first period, the guards of both sides covering their men effectively. The second half resulted in a walk-away
for the Juniors, who amassed a final total of 29 points, while the Seniors only added six points for a
final score of 13.

Shortly after the beginning of the second half, the score was tied, 11 to 11. During the remainder of the
game, the Seniors did not make a single field goal, their points being scored as the result of fouls called
on the Juniors. Rootes the ratte antiady tie ae jedge and power for the things that count sided, it was
one of the best exhibitions of the cage game played on the “Y” court this season. There was little individual
starring, both of the teams working together and in clock-like order. The passing was good, and the game was the
fastest yet played. For the Juniors, Ed Morrison played an exceptionally good game at forward, accounting for 12 of their
points. Harry Price was a good defender of his own goal. The entire Junior team kept the Seniors well-guarded. McBryde
held down the pivot position for the Seniors in good style. The lineup follows:

Juniors (29) vs. Seniors (13)
Price (8) vs. Elkins (6) - F
Morrison (12) vs. Boushee (3) - F
Aihx (6) vs. McBryde (2) - C
Ries (0) vs. Brown (1) - G
Currie vs. Substitutes: Seniors, McLaurin for Currie, Story (1) for Boushee. Referee, Hengeveld.

IN FAVOR THIS FALL.
Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have
it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

S. D. GORDON ADDRESSES VESPER SERVICES
(Continued from page 1)

There is only one door to a man’s life, and the knob to that door is on the inside. God
stands on the outside and will not come in, but the Devil with all his power cannot get in until
the door is opened from the inside. “No one can resist the power of temptation by himself, but if he
will fight against the temptation he can always find help. If you try to fight your battles alone, your life
will be a series of French Waterloos, crushing defeats, but if you accept His help you will have in your
life a series of English Waterloos, outstanding victories.

“He was tempted even as we are tempted! This was no stage temptation, but real temptation. He met the temptation
with clenched fists and came off victorious. “To receive the grace of God into his life, every man must use
his will, as well as his knees. One way of getting the victory over the temptations of life is to
let Him come in. Let Him have the key to your life, so that nothing will come in or go
out, except as He desires. Then temptations may be overcome, but only by our strength alone. “To be a real
Christian means to open wide the door, and to let Him come in. Then, and then only, will we be
perfect men. As He has control of your will through His will, only in that degree will you attain to
the highest degree of manhood.”

In his closing remarks, Mr. Gordon told the story of one brother who offered to take his brother's punishment when
the guilty brother let down the bars contrary to orders. So touched was the guilty brother by the deed, that
never again were the bars let down.

“Christ has taken our punishment, not half, but all of it. Shall we leave the bars down?”
