6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 12, 1923

— STUDENTS ARE ORGANIZED —

The initiation was followed by the regular won by Gracey and Wharton over Singletary and McLeod; and by an unusually good oration delivered from Angus McBryde. Immediately after the program, a bountiful feed dazzled the new members, the pleasures of which were shared by the old men.

Captain Weems Abie Appointed Chief of College Fire Department

The plans for the student fire department are fast nearing completion. Captain Weems is chief fire marshal, having as his assistants Lieutenant George, Mr. Van Sant, and A. M. Hillhouse. Mr. Van Sant will have charge of the equipment house. The old power house has been remodeled to house the new fire fighting apparatus. The equipment will include a hose cart and five hundred feet of hose, several ladders, two of which will reach the top story of any of the buildings on the campus, a chemical cart with fifty feet of hose (this cart will have a fifty-gallon tank on it), several Pyrenes, a number of which will be mounted on a cart so that they can be carried to the upper floors, and one hundred heavy galvanized iron buckets which will be kept full of water at all times. Mr. Van Sant states that most of this equipment has arrived and that the chemical apparatus which has not yet come is expected this week.

In addition to these preventatives, another important step is being taken to supply two night watchmen. These watchmen, when on duty, will have their headquarters in the new power house. The night will be divided between them in such a way that one will inspect every building on the campus once every hour during his time of duty. These men will carry a regular watchman’s clock with them which will be punched to show at what hour a certain building was last inspected. These men will also have a key to the bell tower and one to the equipment house. It shall be their duty in case of fire to immediately sound the alarm and to open the doors of the fire house. In the building housing the equipment, there will be a light burning all night. Under this light, there will be a switch which, when turned on, will illumine the whole building so that the apparatus can be gotten out easily. There will be certain rules which must be obeyed when bringing the equipment out for a fire. These will be demonstrated at the several fire drills we shall have throughout the year.

Various stunts in the initiation, including several impromptu speeches, revealed much talent and promise in those who took part. A flourishing Junior Society was organized and Friday evening set as the date of their meetings. In membership, this class more than doubles that of last year; in future promise, it is certainly unsurpassed on the hill. Of interest is the fact that this society represents the states of Virginia, West Virginia, Alabama, Georgia, Tennessee, and both the Carolinas.

WHAT’S THE MATTER WITH THE POETICAL GENIUSES

Walthall Abandons Poetry and Production Ceases

Why should the campus world be in such dreaded sympathy? Should Jupiter and his spouse, Mnemosyne, mourn that their beloved daughters, Thalia, the muse of pastoral poetry, and Calliope, the muse of heroic poetry, have hung their heads in failure? Many have been those who attempted to follow after them, breathing forth their rhymes, sonnets, and poems in sweeter melodies than even the birds peal forth on the morning air. The liquid notes of the songbirds are no longer made expressive so that they may be preserved and handed down to future generations in the form of poetry. The two poetic muses were about to realize their highest ideal in Walthall. Virgil traveled over the world and gave his inspiration to us in the form of verse and the muses were made glad. Shakespeare in his beautiful melodrama filled the sweet sisters with joy. Tennyson, the most representative poet of his age, was aglow with that humanitarian enthusiasm and on fire with a feeling of love for his fellowman. He gave his thoughts in form of verse. Vachel Lindsay was about to write heroic poetry when he told us of the Calliope and the Gypsy Maid. All these great poets were representative ones, and the poetic muses were proud of them. But what appears to have been about to be the culmination of all poetic endeavor was the great works of Walthall. Hour after hour he spent with the muses, dwelling in their innermost beings and then being aglow with that ardent inspiration made it expressive in his marvelous little love lyrics. Glancing through his works, the poem to “Peggy on her Thirteenth Birthday” stands out very prominently. But his most recent poem, later than the last edition of his works, is called “To a Fairy.” Just call around and have an interview with him about his wonderful achievements as a poet. But again, why should the muses be sad? Why should the world mourn? It is all because Walthall has abandoned poetry and the production of poetry has ceased. No more shall the pages of the Magazine be adorned by lyrics from his famous pen. Never again shall we see his drama presented, as was Shakespearean drama in the sixteenth century. The solution of the mystery of “A. D. S.” will no longer be attempted for the writer heard from truthful sources that A. D. S. too, had abandoned poetry and was directing his literary genius along other lines. What shall we do? The whole student body en masse should petition these gallant young poets to continue in the beautiful work most fitted for them, and not to turn our thoughts away from the heaviness of college duties to a fairyland of happiness and joy and bliss.

WILDCATS FIGHT V. P. I. (Continued from page 1)

the line, and made it the impassable obstacle that the Gobblers couldn’t pass. Baker, Cox, Vance, Laird, and Lindamood, though they weren’t in the game for the whole game, made up for the brevity of their periods of service by the wildest of Wildcat fight while they were there. Vance and “Popsy” Hunt were directly responsible for Sutton’s taking his seat on the sideline. Jim Hendrix piloted the team with the sagacity of a veteran, and as usual was responsible for many gains. “Gig” Shepherd, the old faithful, could be counted on to clip off the desired number of yards whenever called upon, and “Wick” Black playing his own style of game, was running in excellent form. “Doc” DeArmon, the fair-haired full-back, was in the thick of it every time, and never failed to get his man. “Flash” Covington, substitutingFor Hendrix suffered a broken nose, and only had a few minutes to play, but during those few minutes, he lived up to his name. Hunt and Sappenfield never missed a chance to let themselves be heard from.

Tech Position — Davidson
Davis L. E. BakGttcecus vue cosubeneeueccsuco Hodgin L. T. Long L. G. Field C. Summers R. T. Faison R. E. Hendrix Q. B. Black L. H. Shepherd R. H. DeArmon F. B.

Referee: Sampson, St. Albans; Umpire: Izard, Washington and Lee; Head linesman: Moore, Virginia; Substitutes—Davidson: Baker, Cox, Vance, Laird, Lindamood, Covington, Hunt, Sappenfield; Substitutes—Tech: Moss, Flory, Rhodes, Leidrecht, Wetter, Pumphrey, Beck; Touchdown: Moss; Try for Point: Roberts, dropkick; Time of quarter Four Thirteens.

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORTS (Continued from page 1)
...mentioned the completion of New Watts, the grading that has been done, the progress of work upon the new athletic field, the organization of the fire department, and the addition of several new members to the faculty. He stated that the building committee is hard at work upon plans for the stadium, and he was optimistic enough to say that it might be ready for the Spring baseball games and track contests.

The Executive Committee agreed to a tentative arrangement whereby the pillars of Old Chambers will be preserved. They will stand just as they are and will be a memorial for years upon years to come to the Old Chambers, which was built in 1854 and destroyed by fire in November, 1921. The New Chambers is to be built a short distance behind these old pillars.

The matter which occupied the greater part of the attention of the Executive Committee was that of fraternity houses. The action taken was referred to the meeting of the Board of Trustees, which will be held in February. The issue is not the question of whether fraternity houses shall be constructed or not, but it is a question as to where they shall be built. In the light of certain information, the Executive Committee is asking for new instructions from the Board of Trustees, and have accordingly referred the matter to the meeting of the latter in February.

Of unusual interest was an order given for the publication of the Alumni Catalogus, which is being edited by Dr. T. W. Lingle. The material for this catalogue is about completed and it should be issued within the next two months. An order was also given for the publication of the war records of the students.

FOR FIRE PROTECTION (Continued from page 1)
...let tears of mourning flow from all students because of not having those most excellent programs, featured by a debate, which was carefully prepared by Davidson students. Pete Peters, Julian Briggs; Sophomores: Litch Hine, Frank Hudson.

SENIORS PLAN (Continued from page 1)
The record has been by Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian, and its appearance should follow immediately upon that of the catalogue. Members of the Executive Board present at the meeting were: Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., chairman, Richmond; S. A. Robinson, secretary, Gastonia; R. A. Dunn, Charlotte; Rev. Byron Clark, D.D., Salisbury; J. T. Allison, Concord, and Smith Richardson, Greensboro.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS (Continued from page 1)
Another bright finger of Prospectus pointing toward a good year for Davidson is the change in the financing of the meets. Before this year, the burden of the intercollegiate meets has been met by the literary societies. This year the school is back of the debates and financing them by means of a blanket fee paid by the students upon registration. This should secure first-class teams for Davidson opponents in the future.

The increased interest in literary societies on the Hill tends to add much to the success of the debates. Most of the new societies organized within the past few years are reaching students and developing them for intercollegiate debating teams. With the various influences pointing to a successful year, Davidson expects a bright year in the forensic art this year.

COURT OF CONTROL (Continued from page 1)
...interest of the college. Very few Freshmen have yet been reported for specific cases of jibing, but the majority have been reported for “freshness in general.” Heretofore many Freshmen have come to college, seen the hazing, and after a few days, gone home again. Fewer Freshmen have withdrawn thus far than ever before. Those who may be doubtful as to the good of the Court of Control would do well to lay their own opinions aside and judge from results. Following is a list of the members of the court. Seniors: Lee McLean, Nappy Davis, Vic Brown, Gene Regen; Juniors: Pete Peters, Julian Briggs; Sophomores: Litch Hine, Frank Hudson.

Though this class is not as large as the class of '22, it has planned to do big things in its program this year. The school is counting on them to put it all across in fine style.

(no EXTRA CHARGE FOR NEAT GOLD POCKET-CLIP OR RING-END)
Written with a Parker by Princeton’s star football kicker, Duofold inspires fluent thinking and lightens your college work—unruly pens distract and discourage. Pens hamper your education—don’t encumber your mind by using an unruly fountain pen. Such pens are the reason the classic Duofold was created. Look at economy through the Future’s eye—see that years after college days are over you'll be using the handsome Duofold that you buy today. For its balanced swing and super-smooth point embody youth eternal. This Chinese lacquer-red pen with smart black tips is the countersign all the regular fellows recognize. So don’t be induced to accept an inferior pen when Duofold will grade up your taste as well as your work. While you're at it, get the real thing.

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN
Duofold Same except for size
Duofold Jr. With ring for chatelaine

WHITE DRUG CO.
W. S. HENDERSON