THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 11, 1923

BILL and Margery Leight’s TEDDY BEAR GIRLS at Alhambra

BILL’S BASKETBALL BULL

Have you seen the 1923 edition of the Poison Squad in action? They look good for the State championship—at least.
With the Charlotte “Y” game on the 15th only a hop, skip, and jump away, the Wildcats have settled down
to hard work. No overconfidence, but lots of fight.

Five Reasons Why Wildcats Will Win:
BEALL
MALLORY
MAUZE
DAVIS
CRAWFORD

Now that the other 1,238,999 ink-slinging dope fiends of this land of the free (bull) have had their say and
picked their All-American team, we can't resist the command, “Go thou and do likewise.” If this bunch couldn't knock Walter
Camp's favorites for a loop, I miss my guess. With some long green on them, my motto would be, “When
the roll is peeled up yonder, I'll be there.” Here goes!

L. E.—Lazarus, of Bethany.
L. T.—Cedars, of Lebanon.
L. G.—Bean, of Boston.
C.—Granite, of Vermont.
R. G.—Heart, of Maryland.
R. T.—Compromise, of Missouri.
R. E.—Smoke, of Pittsburgh.
Q. B.—Hat, of Stetson.
L. H.—Wildman, of Kalamazoo.
R. H.—Lock, of Yale.
F. B.—Delta, of Mississippi.

Subs—Hills, of Alleghany; Gift, of Carnegie; Stick, of Williams; Tube, of Colgate; Nickel, of Buffalo; Shade, of Brown.

Rolling Stock:
Locomotives.
Collar buttons.
Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
Pins, Mississippi marbles.
Silk stockings.
Flivvers.
Stones.

Do You Remember "Way Back When—
Girls wore 'em short—in fact, will ya ever forget it?

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
Next to Post Office

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

After Every

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes

The First Act: THE ANTERIOR END

Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus-wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of ‘26, who constantly craves information. It is our
resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion
that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial;
in regard to his love affairs, the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Mack (radiant—he’s reading his ‘everlasting poems). How’s this for a spicy one—“Kiss me by radio,” Gosh! That is tough. Lady,
O Lady, O, 'Tain’t close enough.
Bill—Well, it wasn’t so bad.
Fresh (laughing)—Say, that’s the stuff.
Mack—Sure am glad to see that you appreciate real poetry—must be taking English I.
Fresh—Speaking about real things, what kind of clothes are going to be the real stuff this spring?
Mack—Spoofy was down to Charlotte the other day and enquired at length as to the proper raiment.
Fresh—What did they tell him?
Mack—'Cordin’ to him the more or less snappy stuff—Norfolks and belted models—are going to be strong. Says that greys—in the
lighter shades—will be O. K. and that the preference will be for the softer cloths. Says further that whipcords are
as dead as herringbones.
Bill—See here, Fresh, whatever you do when you buy yourself raiment to cover that elongated hide of yours, get stuff
of real quality; it will cost you a trifle more, but it will last longer and look much better all
the time.

CLASS CHAMPS DEFEATED BY CHARLOTTE Y. M. C. A.

Just before the Christmas holidays, Charlotte basketball fans witnessed one of the closest and most exciting games that they will
have the privilege of seeing this season. All this happened when the Charlotte “Y” tied up for the second time
with the Davidson Sophomores, class champions. The “Y” bunch was looking for only a practice game after administering such a
decisive defeat not more than a week before to the same classy Sophomores—but they were in for a surprise. The
Wildkittens were certainly out for revenge this time, and they convinced everyone that the first game must have been played
on an off night.

George Mauze played center in the place of John C. Anderson, who was suffering from a sprained ankle. The game
began fast and it ended fast. Time out was called on numerous occasions to give the players a breathing spell.
Having learned the Charlotte “Y’s” style of play somewhat in the first encounter, the Sophomores had perfected a defense which
was almost impregnable. George Mauze played a peach of a floor game, and shot fouls to the queen's taste. The
referee was anxious to put him out of the game, it seemed, and called three personals on him in the
first half. Naturally, after that, old Warhorse had to slow down somewhat. The first half ended with the Sophs leading
by two points, 15 to 13. In the last half, fouls finally won the game for the “Y.” Smith shot
them with sickening regularity. The final score was 28-25, in favor of the Charlotte lads. Staley, acting captain in the
place of Koenig, was “all there” with the goods, and played a splendid game from start to finish. Pete Mitchell
was high point man for the Sophomores with 10 points to his credit. Smith, playing left forward for the locals,
was their outstanding star, shooting five field goals and six fouls.

SOPHOMORES - CHARLOTTE Y
Mitchell (10) - Smith (16)
Staley (0) - Moore (6)
Mauze (9) - Howell (2)
Boggs (0) - Cunningham (0)
Morrison (0) - Cuthberson (0)
Substitutions for Charlotte—Yates, Purser (4), Marsh. For Sophs—None.
Referee—Paul.

GOLF COURSE AND GYM ARE PUT IN CONDITION

Golf enthusiasts at Davidson have noted with intense interest the recent improvements on the...college golf course. The big gully in
front of tee No. 9 has been filled and the fairway improved. Green No. 7 has been enlarged and improved,
and all of the greens have been put in better condition than formerly. Doctor Arbuckle, to whom we are indebted
for his untiring efforts in this work, reports that after repeated unsuccessful attempts to remove the road which cuts across
the golf course, he has finally obtained a survey which will take this road entirely off the course. With the
road removed, the whole course will be fenced in as private property and can be kept in better condition than
is now possible.

Another plan of Doctor Arbuckle’s is to buy three or four acres of ground and make a new fairway for
hole No. 6. This fairway at present cuts across the fairway of No. 5. A good deal of labor and
funds will be expended to turf the course where this is needed. With the execution of other plans for enlargement
and improvement, Davidson will soon have a golf course which will be unexcelled in this section. At present, our nine-hole
course is the best college course in North Carolina.

During the Christmas holidays, the gymnasium was improved by a newly-painted and marked-off floor, giving the Wildcat basketeers a splendid
court on which to practice.

CAMPUS CLEANED UP DURING PAST HOLIDAYS

With the advent of the spring term and this mild January weather, the campus and buildings of Davidson show marked
improvement in appearance and in point of comfort, due to the efforts of the sanitary squad which spent the Christmas
vacation denuding the campus of its autumnal leaves and a summer's accumulation of debris. Many other changes were made, which
will work for the comfort and convenience of the students. Even the ditches in the rear of the dormitories, which
gave an aspect similar to certain regions in devastated France, have been nicely filled in and there is no longer
danger of one skidding into one of those large, gaping holes feet-foremost.

The most marked change is in the appearance of the campus, which presents quite a different view since it has
felt the touch of the rake and broom and various other agencies of cleanliness. The massive oaks and elms showered
down their quota of leaves during the fall months, and added to this the natural accumulation of rubbish, made the
campus an eyesore. Now not a single leaf is to be found on the entire place. The floors of the
dormitories have lately been treated to a coat of floor oil and some of the rooms have been renovated a
la the calsominer’s brush. Cinder paths have been laid in places where there is usually an abundance of sticky red
mud, and as a gentle reminder to the lads in the new dormitories, shoe scrapers are an added adornment to
the stairs in these buildings. Withal, there is a general air of cleanliness and when the exams have been cleared
out of the way by the kindly hand of time, the entire student body will settle down with a renewed
spirit for the steady grind of the next few months.

COMMISSARY RENOVATED DURING LAST HOLIDAYS

Following up the general lead of the college in the installation of a new heating plant, the commissary, not to
be outdone in anything or by anyone, has lately had new heating arrangements placed in the remodeled and renovated headquarters
of the Shekel Extractors Union. It is, however, agreed by all that it is unnecessary because of the general heat
developed under the collar by purchasers, combined with the hot air tendencies of the inmates. Prior to this extensive lay-out,
unprecedented in the history of the commissary and its various keys, the keepers of this organization have had their abode
renovated to such an unbelievable degree that their friends hardly recognize the place where previously they had invested their simoleons
with reckless abandon. Nevertheless, the establishment has been very attractively finished, and had they but only had the walls covered
with dollar-marked paper, it would be the ideal home of such an enterprise.

JOHN WARD

Men remember when the standards of dress at leading universities ran to corduroys and jerseys. The undergraduate today is the
best dressed man in all the country. Taste in shoes, for instance, is most exacting. The pattern of the John
Ward styles and the volume of the John Ward business prove it. The John Ward representative displays in: No. 4
Georgia Hall January 20, 1923.

OXFORDS

Shoes Scores in Merchants and Farmers National Bank CHARLOTTE, N.C.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY PHONE 298 JAKE MARTIN, Manager

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles WHITE DRUG COMPANY

VICTROLAS VICTOR RECORDS Parker-Gardner Co. MUSIC DEPARTMENT PIANOS 16 W. Trade St. CHARLOTTE “We Furnish Fraternity Rooms”
