THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

Alhambra in SAUNDER’S “PASTIME REVUE”

PROGRAM CHANGED MON.—WED.—FRI.
Matinee 3:30 10c & 25c
Night 7:30-9:00 20-35c

Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS

STUDENTS FOR TRAVELING OR LOCAL POSITIONS

By BILL HESTON

Prof.—Are you sure this story is absolutely original, Mr. Gallaway?
Gallaway—Well—you may find some of the words in the dictionary.

Okey Allison—How do you like my voice in comparison with Caruso?
She—His is good, but yours is still.

Another Record Gone
“Don’t you like that?”
“Yes, that’s fine.”
“It’s nice on the other side, too.”
“All right, I'll take it, and give me some Brunswick needles, too.”

“I’m crazy over animals!” He heard the flapper squeal. So he took her to the library to see the college
seal.

A certain professor to Walthall on porch during Junior Speaking—
Professor—Mr. Walthall, why don’t you go in by the fire?
Walthall—I’m by the fire now, doctor.
Professor—Why don’t you get closer then?

Polk—You sure are like a mandolin.
R. R. Jones—How’s that?
Polk—Because somebody’s always picking you.

Fresh—Ever hear the story about the golden fleece?
Soph—No, do they bite?

No matter how healthy a bow-legged girl may be she’s always in poor shape.

Ted Jones says that a great many girls say “No” at first, but like the photographer, they know how to
retouch their negatives.

Qualify, now, during your spare time for a Traveling or Local Position starting in June, developing the plan of religious
education in the home. Opportunity to make $60.00 or more per week. Write for full particulars at once. UNIVERSAL BIBLE
HOUSE, College Dept., 1010 Arch Street, Philadelphia.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

Ed Brown—Napoleon.
Hippo—Why, because I’m so brave?
Ed—No, because you're so dead.

A city and a chorus girl are much alike, ’tis true; A city’s built with outskirts and a chorus girl
is too.

Overheard during Junior Speaking—
“I'll bet you a kiss I can steal a kiss from you!”
“I'll bet you two you can’t!”
“You win!”

A year ago it was the bobbed hair craze that was growing. Now it’s the bobbed hair.

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe

A MERRY DRAMA ACT THE TENTH

Mac—Great guns, listen to this—
The statesman sits in his swivel chair,
His brow is furrowed with lines of care.
It’s easy to see that his brain’s distraught
With thoughts demanding serious thought,
What is the—
Bill—Whoa. Choke it. Speaking in no uncertain terms concerning that thought just spoken of by you. Did you ever give
any serious thought to the selection of your footwear? Seems to me those shoes which now grace your number tens
are none other than mine, that is my number nines.

Mac—Don’t get on your ear, old dear. I’m really going to invest a few spondulicks in some classy footwear pronto.

Bill—That’s good. Let me suggest that you cast your eye upon the new styles just displayed by Mellon’s—Clapp and Thompson.
Believe me, you can’t miss.

Mac—Just as you say. Just as you say. (To be continued) (adv)

The following should be better than this year’s. With no handicap on the Court of next year it should get
off to a flying start and should make a creditable showing for the year 1923-24.

Piggy Martin was side-splitting in the character of Agamemnon. The author easily characterized the professor's part in a way long
to be remembered and Jack Austin and Al Lake portrayed the parts of the fake girl and the nephew very
successfully. The whole evening was a tremendous success and everyone went away convinced that the plays were as well written
and acted as many professional performances.

STUDENT BODY ABOLISHES ALL FORMS OF HAZING
(Continued from Page 1)

The Millenium
Our idea of a fellow
Who has a drag with the
Girls is one who
Kisses them and then
Pushes them away
Saying they can’t
Have any more.

The report of the Court showed that it had handled the cases of 60 odd freshmen; that it had held
14 meetings and that the average time of each meeting was two hours and a half. From this report it
can be seen that the average time devoted to each case was over thirty minutes. The report also stated that
the Court had arranged for several talks to be given to the class and had supervised the yelling of the
class.

The Peanut Parcher humbly recommends the following as a sure cure for any human ailment—Stick your head in a pail
of water three times and take it out.twice. _ the freshmen at basketball games. No doubt there are many means
of im-

THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS

The next play, The Christian Slave, by H. K. Russell, was of a deeper and more tragic nature. Medevah, played
by the author, is prime minister to the Rajah, played by Ted Jones. He and the swash-buckling Captain of the
Guard, Henry Martyn White, lay a plot with the aid of Kadmiel, a Christian captive, to kill the present Rajah,
who is a usurper. The reward for Kadmiel, Joe Earnest, is to be the release of Romena, a Christian girl
who has been but recently taken into the harem of the sultan. Kadmiel suspects that Medevah’s intentions are directed toward
keeping Romena, played by Susie Brady, for himself. Meanwhile, Romena is brought before the Rajah, but resists his every blandishment.
Soon Kadmiel comes in and reveals Medevah's plot to the Rajah, and the Rajah dies by Medevah’s treacherous knife. Medevah
gloatingly tells Kadmiel how he will kill him and how his beloved Romena will be the slave girl of himself,
the new Rajah. Kadmiel suddenly draws his knife and stabs the treacherous prime minister. Then he and his Romena flee
from the Palace of blood to their former home in Christian lands.

The acting of this play was unusually well done. H. K. Russell, who portrayed Medevah, showed unusual power as he
presented the fawning and scheming prime minister of the Rajah. Susie Brady both looked and played to perfection the role
of the Christian slave girl.

The final play of the evening was Uncle Tommy's Harem, a college farce by W. F. Gallaway. The leading role,
that of Prof. Thomas Lawson, was taken by the author of the play. The idiosyncrasies of the traditional absent-minded professor
were portrayed in this interesting character. His interest is connected with things which concern Greeks, ancient and modern. It is
for this reason that he is interested in “them Turkeys” as Achilles Agamemnon Brown, the negro servant, portrayed very effectively
by Piggy Martin, observed. Ed, the professor's nephew, played by Al Lake, comes in and reads from a newspaper the
startling information that many of the beautiful women of the sultan’s harem are to be turned out because of the
high cost of living. The professor’s sympathies are quickly aroused for these poor women. Soon a knock is heard at
the door and in walks a feminine character who claims to be Halide Khaled Zia Bey. A note which she
brings purports to be from Jack Allbright, a former friend of the professor and at present a member of a
relief party in Turkey. He asks the professor to care for this poor woman as she has nowhere to go
since being sent away by the sultan. Numerous comic situations arise in the horror of the professor at having a
woman in his house and the delight of Ed at her loving nature. After many laughs on the part of
the audience, a wig slips from the head of the supposed female and she stands revealed as a college student
in the person of Jack Austin. The whole plan of Ed is then exposed and the anger of the professor
is finally subdued and he is persuaded to forget his Hellenic culture long enough to enjoy a basketball game with
his nephew. On the whole, this play was a great success and perhaps drew more laughs and in-
