Dr. Henry Louis Smith says he reads The Davidsonian every week—as regularly as The New York Times.

The DAVIDSONIAN

Coach Monk Younger’s visit on the Hill was too late for a story in The Davidsonian this week, but we will tell you about it later.

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 8, 1923 No. 19

GAMMA CHAPTER PHI BETA KAPPA FRATERNITY FORMALLY INSTALLED IN DAVIDSON COLLEGE

Charter Presented By President Chase of University of North Carolina

AN IMPRESSIVE CEREMONY

Doctor Henry Louis Smith Delivers Oration to Distinguished Gathering

By D. B. WALTHALL

Ceremonies incident to the installation of the Gamma Chapter of North Carolina of the Phi Beta Kappa National Scholarship Fraternity were held in Shearer Hall and in the college library on the afternoon and evening of Thursday, March 1st. This is the greatest scholastic honor that could come to any institution, and it marks the completion of the efforts of Dr. J. M. McConnell and the four charter members to secure the charter grant. A large number of distinguished alumni, both of the fraternity and of the college, were present for the occasion. At the afternoon session, Dr. H. W. Chase, president of the University of North Carolina, and representing the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, presented the charter to Dr. W. J. Martin, President of the college. At this time, alumni, honorary, and student members were elected and initiated into the fraternity.

The public exercises of the occasion were held in Shearer Hall at 8 p.m. The main event of the evening was the delivery of the Phi Beta Kappa address by Dr. Henry Louis Smith, former president of the college and now president of Washington and Lee University. The subject of his speech was: Our Christian Civilization in Peril—The Educator to the Rescue. In addition to this, Dr. J. M. McConnell, president of the Gamma Chapter, made a short speech on The Historic Setting of Phi Beta Kappa. Doctor Chase formally presented the charter to the college, and Prof. W. W. Wood read the list of the members who had been initiated during the afternoon. Doctor Martin, the presiding officer, also made a few introductory remarks concerning the significance of Phi Beta Kappa. A large number of noted educators, representing the University of North Carolina, Washington and Lee University, Trinity College, University of Virginia, Converse College, University of South Carolina, and (Continued on page seven)

Forty Queens

Forty of the fairest from Queens College will be on the hill Monday night to present the Operetta Martha to the Davidson student body. These two score girls, which make up the dramatic club of Queens College, broadcasted several songs over the radio from Andrew’s Music Store several nights ago, and the entrance to the store was jammed for over an hour by messenger boys with telegrams requesting encores. The Charlotte police were called to disperse the mob which was forming and escort the chorus to the college. The program includes several sweet solos and skinflute duets, but the most attractive act is the aesthetic dancing. There will be several numbers of this type, all open to encores. The Queens Dramatic Club is giving this performance under the sponsorship of the 1923 Quips and Cranks and under the especial direction of Bob McLeod.

TRUSTEES VOTE IMMEDIATE RECONSTRUCTION OF WATTS

New Structure To Accommodate One Hundred Students

IMPROVEMENTS PLANNED

Professors Reappointed for the 1923-24 Session of College

By C. F. SMITH

The building of a new dormitory to replace the Watts building, recently destroyed by fire, and the proposed start on the erection of the south wing of the new and handsome Chambers Hall within the next sixty days, were the matters of outstanding interest to the student body and the alumni that were brought up at the mid-winter meeting of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College which was held on February 28, in the administrative offices of the college. The meeting was called to order by the president of the Board, Dr. Walter L. Lingle, of Richmond, Va., there being eighteen members of the Board present. After a day’s session, during which time many matters and plans for the bettering of the college were discussed, the meeting adjourned in the late afternoon to meet again at Commencement.

Of greatest interest to the students, perhaps, is the replacing of Watts dormitory by a new and complete building, with accommodations for a hundred students, twice as many as were provided for by the dormitory that was destroyed on February 25th. The Board authorized Doctor Martin and the building and financial committees to proceed at once with the construction of the new building that will stand upon the site of old Watts, and will be more in keeping with the recent new buildings on the campus, as it will be up to date in every detail and absolutely fireproof. Work on the first unit of the Chambers building, the south wing, will begin this spring, and hopes are entertained by the college authorities that this part of the structure will be ready for occupancy by the fall opening of the college. The question of cost for both this and the new dormitory will be left for decision in the hands of the joint committee of building and finance.

The question of allowing Junior Speaking to be held during Easter holidays was, by action of the Board, referred to the faculty. Tentative plans for this occasion point it out to be one of the biggest and best ever held at Davidson. A number of items were presented to the Board by Doctor Martin and were recommended to be passed. Among these was the publication of Miss Cornelia Shaw’s History of Davidson College, which is at present in manuscript form and, according to several competent judges, is an excellent history of the college as well as a valuable literary work. The Alumni Catalogue, now practically ready for the printer, was also ordered published. Alterations in the water plant especially looking to a more steady and dependable water supply for the college were approved. Unification of the voltage of the electric plant, by changing the sections now on 220 voltage to 110, was voted. An annual fund was ordered set aside to assist, from year to year, as many as three professors who may wish to pursue advanced studies at some of the higher universities in a six weeks’ summer course. The Treasurer was ordered to pay one-half (Continued on page seven)

DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH IS PHI BETA KAPPA ORATOR

Former Davidson Executive Presents Views on Current World Problems

EDUCATOR TO RESCUE

Speaker Recalls Memories of Many Happy Days Spent on Davidson Campus

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, President of Washington and Lee University and former president of Davidson, delivered the Phi Beta Kappa address before a large audience in Shearer Hall on the evening of Thursday, March 1st. His subject was: Our Christian Civilization in Peril—The Educator to the Rescue. The speech, perhaps the most impressive ever heard from a Davidson platform, was a keen analysis of the dangers of our civilization today and a forceful application of the necessary remedy.

After a few introductory remarks concerning the many happy memories which were connected with his visit to his old Alma Mater, Doctor Smith stated his subject and proceeded to show how such a condition came about and how we could set to work to remedy it. “Civilization,” said Dr. Smith, “is the organized dominance of our orderly spiritual nature over our animal nature.” He compared its progress to that of a ship sailing against a severe headwind. Never can it make its way directly toward the port, but it must shift and tack one way and then the other. First itbends its way so far from the dead line that it seems as if it will never reach port but is destined for the rocks. It is then that we hear the creak of the rudder chains and we know that the pilot has turned the wheel in the other direction. Then once more it crosses the dead line and goes far to the other side. Time and again this zig-zag process is repeated, but always, if the pilot is watchful, it is nearer the ultimate port. So it is with civilization, for we always know that there is a sure and steady pilot at the helm. One of the greatest swings of progress that the ship of human civilization has ever made had its inception in the democratization of religion which started some 500 years ago, said Doctor Smith. This resulted in the seizing of the religious opportunities and privileges hitherto held by few people. This movement for democracy in religion was followed by a similar movement in political affairs which made itself manifest in the diffusion among the people of the power which the despot king or ruler had enjoyed for centuries. These two movements have been followed, in the last 200 years, by similar movements along industrial and educational lines. The latest of these especially has resulted in a wonder-working educational revival. This resistless, world-wide process of diffusion steadily advanced human welfare so long as the spread of power and liberty was properly balanced by a similar spread of enlightenment and morality, ’till democracy became almost a religion. But a time came when the explosive development of industry and education was not accompanied by a similar development of man’s moral and religious nature. This serious situation was accentuated by the outbreak of the World War, which unloosed all the passions of cruelty and gave power to millions not yet ready for it. And so the time has come when power has outrun true enlightenment, and so our whole civil structure is threatened by Bolshevism. That means the giving of enormous power to those who do not know how to use it. This awful tendency is present, not only in (Continued on Page 8)

ELON CONTEST MARKS TERMINATION OF CAGE SEASON FOR COACH GREY'S WILDCAT QUINTET

DIAMOND ARTISTS RAPIDLY ROUNDING INTO CONDITION

Seventy Candidates Yet Remain After First Cut by Coach

PROSPECTS PROMISING

Twenty-one Games are Scheduled by Manager Elliott

By J. M. SELSER

Ideal weather for the past several days has permitted Davidson's Wildcats of the diamond to put in full time toward getting into shape for the twenty-one-game schedule that Manager Elliott has arranged for the 1923 season. Coaches Buck Currie and Dutch Hengeveld are working hard with what is left of seventy candidates after the first cut last Saturday. On account of the abundance of material and keen competition for all berths on the Red and Black nine, it is expected that by the opening of the season here with Oak Ridge Institute on March 30th, a nine of no mean ability will be ready to answer the umpire’s call to play ball. Captain Pat Crawford, having just finished a successful basketball season, is now devoting his attention to receiving and sending at the initial bag and getting back to his batting form of previous seasons. Johnnie Smith and Kugler are keeping Pat on his mettle and are both ready to step in if anything goes wrong with Pat. Mickey McCoy is back at the keystone sack, with Covington still making him work for his position. New men are slated to take care of the hot corner, and Sappenfield and Bachman are the worthy candidates. Simpson is going good at shortstop. In the line of pitchers, Coach Currie has about as many candidates as are allowed. Three veterans of three years, Sorrills, Hunter and Boushee, are back with the hopes of again gracing the mound for Davidson. Quite a number of new men with good prep records, including Potts, Johnson, Alford, Barnhart, Wells and Barron are out for the pitching staff. In the receiving line Coach Currie has Brice, utility back-stop of 1921, Jim Hendrix, football star, Carson and McDonald. The outfield this year will be looked after by Richards, Hastie and Marrow, of last year’s team, and several new men. Boushee and Alford, hurlers, might take care of center field on their off days and show up well in the hitting line. Vance, right-fielder and heavy hitter, is showing up well in practice. Though Davidson hasn’t a number of letter men back, there is an abundance of material available, and Coach Currie is expecting to make trouble for all opposing teams.

Mr. H. B. Elliott to Leave

Samuel R. Brady has accepted a position as assistant cashier in the Bank of Davidson, succeeding H. B. Elliott, who resigned some days ago to accept a position with the Farmers and Merchants Bank of Staunton, Va. It is of interest to note that one of the officers in this Staunton bank is Mr. Caldwell, who is prominently connected with the Laymen’s Missionary Movement, and who was in Charlotte at the recent convention.

Now is the time to subscribe.

Wearers of Red and Black Outscore Opponents in Season’s Grand Total

HAVE NINE CREDITED WINS

Pat Crawford and Captain Mauze Go On Retired List in Blaze of Glory

By J. L. GREEN

A retrospective glance at the 1923 basketball season, just ended for the Wildcats, shows a record of 9 victories out of 17 games played, leaving 8 defeats by all opponents. A more careful study of the dope, however, reveals the fact that Davidson scored a total of 504 points against 463 by her opponents. In view of this evidence and the close scores by which several games were lost, it seems the breaks were against the Red and Black.

On their own court, with backs to the wall and claws bared, the Wildcats fought so fiercely that only two teams carried away victories from Davidson’s gym. The brilliant little five from Guilford College was the only team which won two games from the Red and Black quintette during the season, one at Guilford and one at Davidson. Elon was the only other invader fortunate enough to get away with a game on D. C.’s court. In this instance the Wildcats were handicapped by the crippled condition of their captain and they failed to get into the usual stride without his leadership. Charlotte “Y,” Concord “Y,” N. C. State, Wofford, Wake Forest—all of these came and saw and were conquered on the local floor. Backed by a loyal student body and stimulated to superhuman effort by Davidson tradition, just as they checked V. P. I. on the gridiron and drew a tie against overwhelming odds, so on the basketball court the Wildcats received all comers, treated them to a real exhibition of the cage sport, and sent them away scalpless. And if Captain Warhoss had not been on the bench in the Guilford, and a large part of the Elon game, there might have been a different story to relate in those two cases.

Away from home, however, fortune failed to smile on the Poison Squad, and out of (Continued on Page 6)

What’s Doing

Thursday—7:00 p.m.—Au. Society. 7:00 p.m.—Phi Society.

Friday—6:15 p.m.—Volunteers leave for Raleigh. 8:05 p.m.—Wrestling Team invades Virginia. 10:00 p.m.—Reporters Club Meeting.

Saturday—2:15 p.m.—Re-examinations. 7:15 p.m.—Harold Lloyd in “Grandma’s Boy.” Also Pathe Review. Free Show. Senior Class Smoker.

Sunday—10:00 a.m.—Volunteer Band. 10:00 a.m.—Ministerial Band. 1:15 p.m.—Christian Endeavor Class. 3:30 p.m.—Sunday School. 6:15 p.m.—“Y” Service.

Monday—4:05 p.m.—Volunteers return from State conference.

Tuesday—6:45 p.m.—Metrophilian Society. 7:15 p.m.—Pandemic Society.

Wednesday—9:00 p.m.—Bible Classes.

PHI BETA KAPPA, WE WELCOME YOU!