4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 15, 1923

The DAVIDSONIAN

OPEN FORUM

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College.
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year.

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

R. F. DAVIDSON........ Editor-in-Chief
First Managing Editor
Managing Editor
R. R. JONES......... Assignment Editor
H. MAUZE...... Athletic Editor
F. WILDMAN.... Press Bureau Manager
W. F. GALLOWAY Assistants
BARRINGTON, C. McINTOSH, CLAUDE

BUSINESS DEPARTMENT
R. L. PRICE, J. H. DAVIS
W. CUILLE, JAMES McCUTCHEN
Circulation Manager
J. A. THOMPSON....Asst. Circulation Mgr.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
McILWAINE, McIVER, D. W. Z. BRADFORD
Assistant Manager
SMITH, C. F. NTER, J. A. APPLEBY, J. M. RATCHFORD, B. V. D.
Advertising Solicitors
Advertising Copy
WATT McCAIN, W. R. H., Vice-Pres.
D. SHA H. OWN, C. Vi, Sec.-Treas.
MAUZE, G. W. WALTHALL, D. B. ALLISON, O. J. MOFFENT, A. N.
WHARTON, D. B. CALHOUN, M. P. MOORE, W. WILDMAN, A. C.
ARNEST, J. S. PATTON, J. WHITE, H. M. ALLO AY, W. F.
POMEROY, W. L. WILLIAMS, J. M. J. A. PRICE, H. B.

It seems that we are developing quite a number of golf stars on our course. At least, this would appear the case if the results of the Salisbury match last week mean anything. Go to it, golfers, we want to see you win every time this spring.

Junior Speaking will be here in two weeks and this year, the juniors are striving to make the occasion one of the most successful in the history of the institution. Let’s all be here to help put it across and enjoy the fun.

A little music at the picture shows every Saturday night certainly does add to the enjoyment of the show. As long as we had an orchestra then, even though composed of only a few men, everyone always looked forward to hearing them. Their absence recently has been most marked, and all have been disappointed because they were not on hand. Can’t some of our many musicians be prevailed upon to make up a temporary orchestra from now on?

The janitors in their new outfit are a very novel sight around the dormitories. Between keeping their white coats clean, and keeping all the rooms clean, they should soon become very efficient workers.

Radio receiving sets are in evidence around the campus these days very decidedly. Aerials, strung from top to top of the dormitories, are bringing enjoyable concerts, it seems, to the ears of Davidson students from all over the country. The men who founded Davidson and placed it in quite an isolated community, would certainly be astonished to know that famous singers, speakers, and orchestras from all the large cities in the United States, were being heard here.

Last Sunday, the Seniors instituted a practice which should lead to better fellowship and school spirit. That is gathering together at regular times to sing the school songs. Come out, Seniors, and take part.

Why aren’t we ALL interested in seeing that the proper men are elected to the student offices? At the election already held only 350 men voted, out of a possible 500, when no effort beyond signing a ballot already made out and at hand, was required. Let’s all vote next Monday.

A BETTER SPIRIT

For some time in the past, we have been allowing ourselves to be a little noisy at the moving picture shows. Usually, however, this was not bad enough to reflect discredit upon a student body. But on last Saturday night, the rowdy element seemed to predominate, and many shouts and comments could be heard which should never have been made and especially not made at a public entertainment where all the townspeople, ladies and children included, were present. The management has rendered excellent service for us this year, and has secured many attractive, new pictures. We should try to co-operate with them in every way possible, and especially should we cut out this practice of shouting at certain parts of the pictures, or making unwanted remarks. If the small boys near the front continue to cause such disturbance, they should be put out. We don’t want to have anything detract from the shows that are put on here.

CHURCH SEATS

The new and very attractive addition to the Presbyterian Church is practically completed, and soon there will be room to allow everyone comfortable seats, instead of the crowded ones of the past year or two. This will fill a long felt need, and will ensure an added attraction to the services, which cramped quarters rendered almost impossible at times. Benches which have been moved close together, can now be moved to their proper distance, and the necessary space made between them. For some years, there has also been a movement to let seniors attend church either in the morning or evening as they wished. This was put into practice last fall, more from necessity than otherwise. With the new part of the church finished, this necessity will be removed. Can't every Senior class be on its honor to attend church one Sunday or report themselves! In addition to making the services more of a worship than a duty, a positive side to our honor system will be put in. If the honor system isn’t practical among seniors, then graduates no longer have the calibre that they have been so noted for in the past.

Stop—Think—Act. The time is here for us to choose the men to lead the various activities on the campus. You may not be satisfied with the present officers, whether that is true or not is of little concern but what is important is the question of who will we have next year. First of all it is of prime importance that every man in the student body should vote in these elections. It is a poor man who hasn’t enough interest in his school and in himself to cast a ballot for the man that he thinks is the best for the important positions of leadership on the campus. It is your duty as well as your privilege to exercise your vote. Only 341 men voted in the race for Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian. That’s a disgrace. This year is somewhat of a crisis in the history of student government at Davidson. The school has grown amazingly in the last four years. Large additions have been made to the faculty as well as to the student body. Many changes and innovations have been effected.The Honor System and the student government have, if anything, been slipping backward and losing authority and prestige. This ought not to be and must not be allowed to remain the case if Davidson is to grow and prosper. The man that is to be the head of the student government for next year will have a big opportunity to get things going right on the campus. He has a big job, and the office calls for a big man. Think over the men of the Junior Class and pick out a man who has the necessary ability to handle the situation and one that will devote himself to this great work of building up old Davidson. Whatever you do, if you haven’t got enough energy to sign your name to a ballot, ask someone sitting next to you to do it for you. Yours for a better Davidson. T.D.

LET YOUR MOTTO BE:
God make me a man;
Give me strength to stand for right,
When other folks have left the fight.
Give me the courage of the man
Who knows that if he wills, he can.
Help me to see in every face
The good, the kind, and not the base.
Make me sincere in word and deed;
Blot out from me all shame and greed;
Help me to guard my troubled soul
By constant, active self-control.
Clean up my thoughts, my speech, my play
And keep me brave from day to day;
O, make me a man.
—Exchange.

LAUGH
Build for yourself a strong box,
Fashion each part with care,
Fit it with hasp and padlock,
Put all your trouble there.
Hide therein all your failures
And each bitter cup you quaff,
Lock all your heartaches in it,
Then sit on the lid and laugh.
Tell no one of its contents,
Never its secrets share;
Drop in your cares and worries,
Keep them forever there.
Hide them from sight completely,
The world will never dream half;
Fasten the top down securely,
Then sit on the lid and laugh.

NUT SUNDAES
EXCHANGE COLUMN

HOW IT WAS DONE
(His Version)
I had not the least intention
To do the thing I mention,
I had shaken hands and started for the door,
But our glances seemed to mingle,
And I felt my pulse tingle
With a bliss ecstatic which I’d never felt before,
And she surely did not chide me;
As she stood quite close beside me;
And if she whispered “No” ’twas very low.
So, as we stood so nearly
It was just a trifle, merely,
To bend and kiss her while the lights were dim and low.

(Her Version)
I knew, of course, I shouldn’t,
But then, you see I couldn’t
Resist him when he put it to me so,
I know he really shouldn’t,
But then, you see I couldn’t
Turn from him with a stern “Sir, you must go!”
And so, although I shouldn’t
Just because he really wouldn’t
Desist when first I said to him “No!”
Why, so all in a minute
There wasn’t much sin in it,
He—well, he kissed me while the lights were dim and low.
—Orange and Blue.

THE FLAPPER REPLIES
If e’er my hair was somewhat mussed,
When from a ride I came,
Recall it might have been a gust
Of wind which was to blame;
And anyway, is my response,
Honi soit qui mal y pense.
You find me off alone with Jim,
With all the lights turned out,
I might just want to talk to him
With no one else about;
And anyway, is my response,
Honi soit qui mal y pense.
I don’t get home till half-past three,
(The party stopped at two),
We might have had a blow-out see?
And had to change a shoe;
And anyway, is my response,
Honi soit qui mal y pense.
If blue was red,
’N red was blue,
’N you loved me,
’N I loved you,
’N all alone were just us two—
’N I liked kisses
’N you did, too,
Gee—I would, would you?
—Ex.

He (poetically)—I could hang on your very words,
She—Is my line as strong as that?

Men may go with charming flappers,
College widows and all such.
But for me the greasy pigskin
Is the skin I love to touch.
—Punch Bowl.

Henry McNair is so fast in the dashes that he finds it necessary to wear a football uniform during practice to keep him from flying!

D. Appleby—Do you like Rubaiyat by Omar Khayyam?
O’Neill—Yes, I certainly do. I think it is one of the finest things Kipling ever wrote.

Frank Wildman recently attempted to relate to the Pandemic Literary Society some items of current interest. Among other things was the fact that the Dixie Flyer had been wrecked near Calhoun, Ga. At least the audience learned this afterwards. Frank expressed it as follows: “The Dixie Flyer running at the rate of sixty miles per hour ran into a windstorm near Calhoun, Ga., drawn by two engines and was wrecked.”

The professor was discussing trigonometry, and said “Now Mr. McFalls, if we have forty-four degrees and add one, how many will we have?”
McFalls, awakening from slumber—“Fifty-three, doctor.”
The professor repeated the question, adding “I don’t see why you don’t see that Mr. McFalls.”
McFalls—“Oh, I see now. It would be 104 degrees!”

The infirmary still seems to be popular with many of the students. Those who were fortunate or unfortunate, as the case may be, during the past week as to spend a few days there were, G. Rodgers, A. L. Patterson, W. R. Hough, Jas. Moore, H. L. Currie, Glenn Houck, E. L. Cox, and Payne Brown.

In English V class the question was asked, “If you were going to describe a man’s feat of strength, Mr. Morrow, how would you do it?”
Morrow—“I'd begin by describing his feet.”

Was it strategy on the part of Bob McLeod in appointing Red Smith and Watt McCain to draw the curtains for the Operetta “Martha” on Monday night?

The many friends of Herbie Knight, ’22 were indeed pleased with his sister, Miss Isabel Knight, co-star with Miss Christian, who played in the Operetta “Martha.” Miss Knight’s singing was above par and was thoroughly enjoyed.

Quite a number of the students insist on letting everyone know they’re from the country by patting their feet during the playing of a musical number, or the singing of a hymn in chapel.

Fresh Faggart thought the directress of the Operetta was the cheerleader. He says she is some cheerleader!

To love one’s self is the beginning of a lifelong romance, so says (?).

The old believe everything; the middle-aged suspect everything; the young know everything.

Well, the FIRE was here Monday night, and old Jupe, as usual, sent plenty of rain. Guess that’s the ex-