_EME RAYIRSONAAN, FEBRUARY 1923_

_REEPERARY NEWS_

DOCTOR Loti MCS at anit fies Melbicd 1 sthidenantts year; 1 Déetbr Hood: hhy offereti his course:if business: /psy* chology and salesmanship. (Dhis\jis one:/of tite most practical-courses: offered iat David- kn forl tHosewWhoilintend itd: make medicine, enginedting,! or! business: their future! profes: BoM Jeol yh ted? etanes off “Mithd eoubse!Wielades Stich Hhings'ae thé best Ror df Advertisiti¢! titettidds’ of catchitig and holding® the attelition, bd! other’ things of tike inpertance’ Wwiith cofitt! up’ in! the everyday life ‘bY leh Blishneéss! ini,’ “Besidey teaming tHe: britici {es Of Sidvertising’ anid’ @hleshrratis ship, the edurse! aspires! to” Pender’ nidre ebt: tetety ‘deeviddable, 'Within 'd'putticular! field, the adeeptedl tacts; ‘laws! ate ‘tetliods "resus tig’ Prob the! etpetlineltat’ study. of! Huntin natite anh’ Hhuiitin ‘behavior, Hount iood. vst Psychology Dgevags! the ‘coutsé' is ealled) bomied tHe second’ ‘period loft Mmuuestay, THurs- day ‘and ‘Saturday.’ “Phe course iS very'pracl tital!tn every! detilil ‘dnd Ht! 14 Hiipet that at wil? be fad a 'pdtmanent part! int 4He! curd Pict y Theré?! art! about’ twetity!"ih the élass!! at’ present” ‘several additicts having been made since the class WAS! Airst Started after’ the éXathitidtionis. yotatod ters no On| einai OPT DR WARREN SPEAKS:"" TON HISTORY, Abs iaDeaAN ee ae iof ‘Wiora’ Mac- donald College) for! Women, (gaveiaivéry in- teresting! ldcture dni modern! Scotland :toi the members) 6f ‘the /olass in:;Moderi Eurpoean History! last Saturday morning) id the history room. His talk concérned:itseff mainly with political! and economic Soma now ekxist- ing’in) Scotland. 9) ti) ols tos tog ‘'Doetor':Vardell's! seperti divless Airst hand, since last summer ‘he;waS preseht: in that country at the placing of a memorial ae on ‘the Island‘ of Skye? © This ‘tabl as ere in ft ‘ cdonald, fo coal eng! air through “her ‘assistance’ of* Prince ‘Chartie* th his escape :fromy, Septland.,) .:| woThe Scotch people, ;says, Doctor, Vardell, are; charagterized. by, their .extreme Jayalty to the;clans,and traditions, They are.aiyery imaginative people jand hold fast. to, many high ideals, (This ,lgeture,on. the Scotts) was Very. imter- eating, to. Davidson jstudents, most. of whom rareof, Scotch: or Lrish, descent, and: was; very much appreciated by all, who heard, it.;/Doc- tor Vardell is a man of high ability and has done wonderful work at the callege of which che (is, presidents j)u too? doi sity al” up Hh! b “Sys otmonoscl 4 sant? 5 toue NEW rae OFFICERS INSTALLED The meeting of the Eumenean Society last Thursday night was characterized by two features: The regular program and the in- stallation of the third term officers. Dis- cussing the matter of the settlement of rail- road strikes were: Affirmative—Hillhouse and Moss; negative—Rogers and Ramsay. The decision of the judges was in favor of the affirmative as was also the favor of the house. Mr. R. R. Jones gave a most inter- ae 48 to inl ao yr ool oily tame What’s Doing THURSDAY, FEB. 8 Eu Society, 7:00 p. m. Phi Society, 7:00 p. m. Wildcats vs. Wofford, 8:00 p. m. FRIDAY, FEB. 9 Biddle Glee Club, 7:30 p. m. ‘SATURDAY, FEB. 10 Wildcats vs. Furman (pending). Gloria Swanson in “My American Wife.” SUNDAY, FEB. 11 Volunteer Band, 10:00 a. m. Ministerial Band, 10:00 a. m. Christian Endeavor Training Class, 1:00 p. m. Sunday School, 3:30 p. m. “Yy” Service; 6:15 p. m. TUESDAY, FEB. 13 Wildcats vs. N.C. State, at Raleigh: Metropilian Society, 6:45 p. m, Pandemic Society, 7:15 p. m. Meeting of Aesculopian Club, 10.00 m. WEDNESDAY, FEB. 14 Wildcats vs. Wake Forest, at Wake Forest. Bible Classes, 9:00 p. m. esting and fiery, as*Well as witty oration, ry | in Hs his SUR OR'S great Chinese + statesman ‘and After this Py By pacts took place.’ MrT iting a dent ‘was Maeda he rostrem -by"\N. Patte erson,-the tetiring president. D. H. a den received from: Mr- Fraser his allegiance to the athe s taok their places: pes TES ana By ce Bhihouse: stretary| J.) Ly Green; tand B.H. :Biddle, reviewer. Mr. Fraser made a very: 4ppropri- ate speech upon! his inauguration) concerning the duty of ithe society and: its) Sue i vol titiobe D. POLITY CLUB PLANS: ' FOR MANY ' LECTURES daiive ot beib 9% ' yurbereers The Invexnationat eaature Chae foryas it is generally known, the Polity Club, is looking, forward. to an, unprecedented series | of activities and. te functioning, on a, Jarger scale than,has, heretofore | been ; thought pos- sible. The purpose .ef; the, club is|to study ; the political and economic conditions of the world jand, especially, the economic, conditions of], Durope |that have a hearing, on the United States.) The work, that jit, has done jis, by, no means a smalt,one,and it may) well look back over its past with a just, pride. fou The. oluh has /been fortunate, in, securing some of the most competent authoritias on various subjects;\to speak during the, year. Aniong: these were: Dr. ‘Thomas, Lingle, who spoke on the Turkish situation,,andj Myr. E. B. Shaw, who dealt i with the South) Ameri- can problem. Phe tiew members have shown a great deal of interest);in, the,,work ; andthe entrance theses swbmitted have been excellent, dealing in a complete and thorough’ manner with the subjects covered. As an incentive to this itis planned ;to ‘compare these theses) at, the end of, the, year and. a committee of, judges will! then select; the best and award a, suitable prize to the author. it The: International |Relations Chub of Da- |, ),5 vidson is in correspondence with the head- quarters, of. the) association of j¢lulis,,and_ it is hopediahd plannedi|through this to secure a series of) worth»while and. instructive |lec- | tures by speakers of note, during \the coming | spring term. ov) ban baat Rv god Died ise 4 ; iy PHI'SOCIETY HOLDS _ INTERESTING MEETING \, vegibiusl 3 cil “it is “Temarkable, how,; members ‘of, the Phi Sogiety. rallied at the. first, meeting, held after | the strenuous and slecp-losing period of ex- |! aminations. Ik indeed shows the spirit and | loyalty and the high regard that the boys | hold for the society. The debate on whether or not the de-| cisions made by the Labor Board should be| upheld and enforced by Congress was con- | tested on the affirmative by A. L. Patterson | and K. Lewis. Their opponents, C. C. Mc-| Millan and R. O. Sellars, were unable to| combat the onslaught made by the affirma- | tive. _The outstanding argument came tots | Patterson. Although a first year man he showed the quality of a veteran. The others were by no means weak in the defense of their respective sides. Sellars and Lewis were appointed in place of absent members. bers. The. oration, “Use of Our Talents,” by R. M. McGirt, was featured by his usual display of good speaking, clear enunciation, and scattered throughout with appropriate gesticular movements. D. THE REEL STUFF This week’s screen attraction is to be| Gloria Swanson in “My American Wife7”’ Gloria Swanson has never been scen to bet- | ter advantage in any picture than in “My American Wife.’ Her role of Natalie) aba: anew-gowa.- Sos Miss. Swanson, especi: hlly to | az ails of RECO PEO Style-creation: “fhere-are-a number of pearl: on the sowilfodtiac Huet AI FRES O00. red i: “Phere! lived a Knight, whe knighthood ‘1 was in flower, Who aad alike the siltty, ard ‘and tte » bower.” ti Leigh Hunt's fuattvblk eatin dusiva above, ‘furnished! the title for! one ofthe finest Jroyal/ romances) in history; which was put onthe screen at!a cost of over'a million dollars): Rotting back/the scrolls! of! history 7 au sprite four hundred“Years to the days when “Bluff King Hall” ruled in “Merrie England,” an American company has achieved the acme of cinematic art. “When Knighthood Was in Flower” will be shown here in the latter part of March. It is a Paramount directed by Robert Vignola, starring Marion Davies.

MR. SHAW LECTURES

Mr. Shaw, an international Y.M.C.A. worker, delivered a lecture on South America, Friday night, at 7 o'clock, in Shearer Hall. Mr. Shaw spoke frankly, as an American to Americans, pointing out in a forceful manner evidences of our provincialism and our ignorance of South America and its affairs. He began his lecture by making clear his purpose of speaking frankly: “A certain rubber company in the United States,” he said, “spent $50,000 in printing and in teaching its salesmen Spanish for use in Brazil, where the Portuguese language is used.” A prominent American businessman recently asked him the name of the railroad in South America, where the continent is all one country. Mr. Shaw highlighted vital points of interest concerning the progress being made in South America, particularly in education, art, and science. One South American university was founded before Harvard and has been in continuous session since. The speaker told of the beauty of the opera houses in several South American cities, some surpassing the Metropolitan of New York. He told of the skill of South American surgeons educated in their own universities, citing statements by the Mayo Brothers who toured South American hospitals and declared they had never seen finer work.

Dr. Shaw was born in Brazil. He secured his degree from Worcester College, O. In Sao Paulo, Brazil, he met actor Tingle, who has lived there at the time. Mr. Shaw is engaged in international Y.M.C.A. work and has traveled extensively in the United States and lectured at many colleges.

LOCAL MEN INSTALL CHAPTER

(Continued from Page 1)

A.B., M.A., 1203, M.L. A. Siske, A.B., M.A., 1203, and M.R. Doubles, B.S. '22. Since that time chapters have been installed at N.C. State College, University of Florida, and Johns Hopkins University, and at each of these places the chapter includes the honor men of the respective schools and enjoys the hearty support of the chemical faculty. The Grand Council is at present entertaining an immediate expansion policy of the fraternity and within the near future will affirm petitions from various Class A institutions in this vicinity. It has been the aim of the fraternity to fit the need and want of the chemical profession.

Gloria Swanson in “My American Wife” is a picture that affords her abundant opportunities for characterization and the display of an extravagant wardrobe. The scene of this picture is Argentine, the land of the tango and charming senoritas. The beautiful city of Buenos Aires, the capital of the Argentine Republic, is the locale of “My American Wife.” Miss Swanson in the role of Natalie Chester, a Kentucky girl with a passion for racing, has fallen in love with a Spanish nobleman whom she has met at the races. The outcome of the love affair remains hidden up to the final fade-out because of the interesting plot involving the three principal players. Three thousand ermines were required to make the costumes.

SAMUEL PEPYS says in his diary that Charles II, for all his interest in the Royal Society, laughed uproariously at its members “for spending their time only in weighing of air and doing nothing else since they sat.” This helps to explain why Charles has come down to us as the “merry monarch.” The Royal Society was engaged in important research. It was trying to substitute facts for the meaningless phrase “nature abhors a vacuum,” which had long served to explain why water rushes into a syringe—the commonest form of pump—when the piston is pulled out. Denis Papin had as much to do as anyone with these laughable activities of the Royal Society. Papin turned up in London one day with a cylinder in which a piston could slide. He boiled water in the cylinder. The steam generated pushed the piston out. When the flame was removed, the steam condensed. A vacuum was formed and the weight of the outer air forced the unresisting piston in. Out of these researches eventually came the steam engine. London talked of the scandalous life that King Charles led and paid scant attention to such physicists as Papin, whose work did so much to change the whole character of industry. The study of air and air pumps has been continued in spite of Charles’s laughter. In the General Electric Company’s Research Laboratories, for instance, pumps have been developed which will exhaust all but the last ten-billionth of an atmosphere in a vessel. This achievement marks the beginning of a new kind of chemistry—a chemistry that concerns itself with the effect of forces on matter in the absence of air, a chemistry that has already enriched the world with invaluable improvements in illumination, radio communication, and roentgenology.

General Electric Company
Schenectady, N.Y.