FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. DECEMBER 13, 1923

Fresh Provide Amusement For Students During Riotous Soph Day Celebration

Sophs Reign for One Day, Making Fresh Walk a Chalk Line—Paint Fight Features

FRESH DECORATE FACES

First-Year Men Stage Antics for Sophomores—Good Feeling Prevails During Day

As an alternative for hazing, Sophomore Day was inaugurated Saturday, with the hope that this day may become an annual
affair on the campus. Sophomore Day was suggested and authorized by the Court of Control, and directed by S. S.
Deck and other members of the Sophomore class. Paint fights, shirt fights, wheelbarrow races, parades and general foolishness made up
a day which will never be forgotten by the present freshman class.

Seven-thirty Saturday morning found the freshmen busy making their noses a fiery red, and branding a big black “F” on
their foreheads. One lady remarked that she knew that college men drank but she didn’t know they carried it to
such an extreme! Each freshman wore his cap turned around, giving a still more tipsy appearance. On going in and
out of the dormitories, instead of walking in the usual civilized way, each freshman knelt down and crawled on his
hands and knees in and out of the building. Tipping the cap to all upper-classmen was likewise in the orders
of the day. This had to be performed from the rear with the right hand as the left was kept
hidden. The crawling pose was resumed on each crossing of the “D,” likewise across Main street. Many learned what it
was to sit on the “atmosphere,” for “sitting on infinity” was in vogue. All the chairs used by the freshmen
at the respective boarding houses received a good rest for one day, for their use at the table was barred.
By an unfortunate (Continued on page 8)

S. D. Gordon Ends Series of Interesting Speeches

Spends Four Days at Davidson and Makes Total of Nine Talks—Impresses His Hearers

After conducting four services on Sunday and Monday, Mr. S. D. Gordon, noted writer, lecturer, and world traveler, continued his
series of services by speaking to the students on Tuesday evening, and at the local church twice on both Wednesday
and Thursday. In a straightforward, simple manner, with a distinct touch of sarcasm and a unique way in delivering his
talks, he left with the students and townspeople an impression of a life of consecration, and of one full of
service for God.

Tuesday night in his talk to the students he asked the query, “What kind of house shall you live in?”
He interpreted this to mean, what sort of a condition would the life of each be? One made of concrete
could not easily be shifted; one of wood can; the house (or life) built on a broad boulevard may be
one merely for show, while the one on the side street would be one of true living. Mr. Gordon asserted
that the right kind of house for a real, true Christian to live in, using it in a Biblical sense,
was a tent, one that can be easily shifted, so that when the command comes from God to go, it
can be quickly done. Christ gave the command to tarry and then go, hence, living in a tent would be
waiting for the command, and, when it came, one would be ready. The scarcest thing in the world today is
a real Christian man, stated the speaker. It’s better to be an out-and-out Christian than a drag on the market,
was the conclusion. One's life should be so lived that it will be a steady warm glow rather than a
sudden conflagration, and the best means of obtaining this end is for the material side of the lives of men
to be in sympathy with Christ, and therefore easily shifted.

At the Wednesday night service Mr. Gordon was reading a passage of Scripture containing the genealogy, when suddenly he stopped
and said, “This is getting monotonous,” drawing the contrast that such is every person's life with God left out. The
speaker showed that the Bible was inspired, for the insertion of the genealogy in the scripture would not be done
by an ordinary writer; the genealogy shows that every man was born and lived; no man had anything to do
with the first birth, and the results of a life when these people walked with God, using Enos as a
special example, was a beautiful life. Continuing his discussion, Mr. Gordon said that the best thing in the world was
to really live. Reverently speaking, he asserted, people are “fellows” with God if they walk with Him.

Frontis Urges Sabbath Observance In ‘Y’ Address

Mooresville Alumnus in Deeply Interesting Address of “Y” Vesper Service

Doctor F. Frontis, of the class of '92, who is at present a dental surgeon of Mooresville, addressed the Y.
M. C. A. at its vesper service Sunday evening. The subject chosen by Doctor Frontis was Sabbath Observance. His text
was the Fourth Commandment.

“The subject of Sunday observance,” said the speaker in opening, “is a subject on which we are all more or
less sensitive, since we are guilty of failing to observe it in the way in which it was intended to
be observed, as given in God’s law. We try to excuse ourselves because everybody else breaks the laws of Sabbath
observance. But we cannot excuse ourselves or soothe our consciences for doing like others unless others do right. Sabbath observance,
as all other laws of God, is an individual matter.

“Our ancestors, the early settlers of America, observed scrupulously the law of Sabbath observance, and not only they, but their
descendants have been blessed by it. America has grown to be the greatest nation in the world, and God has
blessed America for keeping His laws.

“The church is laboring valiantly to fulfill her mission of peace on earth, making the world better. This is pleasing
to God. But it does not please God to see professing Christians desecrating His Holy Sabbath. God has given us
six days in the week as our own. If we are to take off one day a week for pleasure,
let it be from those six, and not from the one day that He has set aside as His day.
One day a week is necessary for rest of body and soul. It is a proven fact that more can
be done in working six days (Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Glee Club Back From Tri-State Jaunt

Red and Black Melody Makers Have Successful Road Trip Through Carolinas and Georgia

QUARTET MAKES HIT

Six Performances Given on Southern Tour—Gastonia Concert Monday Closes Long Jaunt

The Davidson College Glee Club blazed a broad trail through Dixieland on their fall concert tour, leaving in their wake
many pleasant memories of tuneful days and songs that even artists love to sing. The 24 musicians, together with advance
manager, J. H. Davis, returned to Davidson Tuesday morning after a tour through North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia—the most
successful trip ever made by a Wildcat musical club.

The musicians proved themselves to be the most versatile artists at Davidson. “Singing quartet and solo, rendering operatic bits and
then jumping into jazz, the collegians proved themselves a versatile musical organization,” writes the Atlanta Journal. The choruses were well
received by every audience. The “We Love Us” chorus, written by Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker for the Davidson Glee Club,
exclusively, was a popular prelude to the evening of entertainment which followed. The Symphony Orchestra, the Dixieland Novelty Seven and
the String Quartet were a valuable asset to the club, attracting especial attention in every performance. The Dixieland Novelty Seven,
jazz musicians of the rarest type, were the most popular performers of the entire troupe. The solos were excellent, and
the quartet did its bit to make the program a rousing success. Piggy Martin, in his original lectures, was called
from behind the scenes time and time again, scoring well before every audience.

The tour began Tuesday, December 4th, the first engagement being in Spartanburg, S.C. One of the features of the visit
to Spartanburg was the dinner party by Harold Moss, ex-'24, to the Senior members of the club. The Spartanburg performance
was under theAuspices of the high school. The second concert was given at Anderson College, Anderson, S.C. A reception followed
the performance. The next stop was at Gainesville, Ga., where the club played before the students of Brenau College. The
North Carolina Club gave a reception to the entire club after the concert in the Brenau auditorium. Shorter College, Rome,
Ga., received the Davidsonians enthusiastically in their fourth concert, entertaining with a reception after the performance.

Red and Black Cagers Round Into Form Under Tutelage of Coach Younger

Dr. John Calvin Metcalf Defends Modern College In Public Address at Phi Beta Kappa Initiation—Ably Repels Attacks on Colleges

Dr. John Calvin Metcalf, head of the English department and dean of the Graduate School of the University of Virginia,
delivered the literary address at the fall initiation of Phi Beta Kappa, at Davidson College, on Friday night, December 7th.
Dr. J. M. McConnell, president of the local chapter, following the invocation by Dr. C. M. Richards, made a brief
statement concerning the history of Phi Beta Kappa. Then Dr. I. I. Shewmake introduced the speaker of the evening.

In opening his address, Dr. Metcalf spoke a few words on the nature of this honorary fraternity. “It has been
called,” he said, “an invisible empire of ideas. Because of its demands for membership it has become in a way
intellectual and moral noblesse oblige.” With these introductory remarks, the speaker continued with an eloquent and scholarly presentation of what
the American college is and the things it should strive for.

“There are four chief indictments commonly hurled at the American college today. The first is worthy of careful consideration, and
it is true to a certain extent. It is that the college lacks unity in curriculum and purpose, i.e., it
is too haphazard. The second indictment is that too much time and money are spent on non-essentials, non-knowledge, merely the
old utilitarian cry which would overthrow the ideal plan of general education first to be followed by specialist work and
reverse this order to the ruin of the whole. Then they say colleges do not encourage the gifted student, but
are more intent upon mob thought or unity than upon individual leadership with power. While this is unfortunately true to
some extent, we can see a sign of an intellectual renaissance in the movement in some universities to bestow certain
honors and privileges upon those achieving marked success in intellectual lines. Finally, the modern college is termed pagan. Surely it
is not perfect now and contrary to the opinion of its critics never was. Men and women in the colleges
today are speaking with a greater frankness and boldness, at least with a greater freedom of expression. But in the
end, we will find that they have come to a settled philosophy, as it were, in which religion and knowledge
do not contradict each other. They cannot, for they are on parallel tracks, or more accurately, on different planes.”

Dr. Metcalf continued with the question of whether the college is training for leadership, and emphasized this important aspect (Continued
on page 8).

SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES
FIRST AND SECOND WEEKS

Monday:
Tuesday:
Wednesday:
Thursday:
Friday:
Saturday:
Sunday:

7:00-7:30 P.M. Literary Societies
7:30-9:30 P.M. Literary Societies
10:00-10:30 A.M. Picture Show
7:00-8:45 P.M. Glee Club
8:30-9:30 P.M. Ministerial Band
8:30-9:30 P.M. Picture Show
7:15-8:00 P.M. Bible Class Leaders
9:00-11:00 P.M. Court of Control
9:30-11:00 P.M. Reporters’ Club
10:00-11:00 P.M. Volunteer Band

SECOND AND FOURTH WEEKS

Monday:
Tuesday:
Wednesday:
Thursday:
Friday:
Saturday:
Sunday:

7:00-7:30 P.M. Literary Societies
7:00-8:30 P.M. Literary Societies
10:00-10:30 A.M. Picture Show
7:00-8:45 P.M. Glee Club
8:30-9:30 P.M. Ministerial Band
8:30-9:30 P.M. Picture Show
7:15-8:00 P.M. Bible Class Leaders
9:00-11:00 P.M. Court of Control
9:30-11:00 P.M. Reporters’ Club
10:00-11:00 P.M. Volunteer Band

Second Week of Basketball Practice Finds Wildcat Quint in Fine Physical Form

STALEY AND BEALL STAR

Morrison and Bogus Show Up Well at Guard Positions—Captain Davis Jumps Center

Basketball practice that began on Wednesday, the 5th, has rounded into the second week and prospects for a winning quint
are brighter with age. Autumn atmosphere with its stimulating briskness is, of course, suggestive of football, the king of all
sports. The whole scene of action has changed, however, from the grid to the hardwood court since autumn has merged
into winter. Davidson athletes are striving by hard practice to enhance their chances at redeeming some part of Davidson's disastrous
football season.

Practice has become earnest as the season's games are approaching so rapidly. Light workouts have been done away with and
already long drills have been inaugurated. Coach Monk has not had to put too much time on instruction in the
rudiments of the game as so many veterans are back. This early in the season the first squad has been
cut down to nine men. A program of rapid elimination is considered by the coaches to be essential since preliminary
practice time is so short. Immediately after Christmas, the varsity squad of both first and second string men will be
cut to ten men. It will be extremely hard for the new coaches to pick men to fill the gaps
left by Crawford and Mauze. From the second week's practice, it would seem that Sappenfield and Morrison are the men
who will most likely step into the suction soles left by these two lettermen. They have been showing up exceptionally
well in practice and their work (Continued on page 5).

Debaters Ready for Clash With Washington and Lee

Team Is Primed for First Meet on Next Friday Night—Outlook Optimistic

After a month of strenuous preparation, the Davidson debating team is primed for the first meet on the 1923-24 schedule
which is to be held in Shearer Hall Friday night, December 14th, with Washington and Lee. There is abundant promise
of a debate full of clash and fire. Few questions are of more momentous importance than: “Resolved, That the present
immigration law should be re-enacted.” Secretary of Labor Davis says: “No more vital issue faces the American people today than
that of immigration.” Among the first bills on the last Congressional docket came the identical one of the present debate.
It was far past midnight, and only over red-hot opposition, that any decision—and this was to be only temporary—was reached.
Many of the great periodicals are featuring the immigration problem. Here, too, the controversy is bitter.

Davidson apparently used discretion in choosing the negative side. On this side are lined up a most formidable array of
internationally-known political scientists, educators, and politicians. Their names alone would be sufficient to give desirable credence to any theory. Coming
to the debaters themselves, the contest looks indeed auspicious for the Wildcats. Professor Dendy says: “On reviewing their briefs, I
found them exceptionally logical, forcible, and convincing. As to their individual argumentative and oratorical ability, I am more than pleased.
Those that attend this debate will be gratified with the Davidson champions, and every real Wildcat will be there.” (Continued
on page 8).
