=

THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 23, 1923

WILDCATS END TWENTY-SEVENTH SEASON

(Continued from page 1)

feat of Elon. The Red and Black machine failed to show any evidences of team play and did little against
the Elon forwards.

Presbyterian College of South Carolina was defeated in Rock Hill by the margin of a field goal in the final
minutes of play. For the first time in many seasons, the educational toe gave Davidson a victory.

Coach Younger’s charges lost to V. P. I. by the margin of an intercepted pass and 80-yard dash for a
touchdown.

The Citadel Bulldogs were the Wildcat’s next foe. The Wildcats won 7-0 but only after the hardest battle.

The Wake Forest Baptists outplayed the Wildcats decisively in their annual contest and won when Greason ran 48 yards to
a touchdown.

The Wildcat grid schedule for 1924 will include games with Carolina and Clemson, at Davidson. Trinity and Wake Forest will
probably be met in Charlotte. The N. C. State game will go to Raleigh, and the Wildcats will meet the
Purple Hurricane of Furman University at the South Carolina State Fair in Columbia. Elon, P. C., Hampden-Sidney, V. P. I.,
and other Virginia teams have requested games for the coming season. Davidson will probably stick to her policy of playing
the same teams, whenever possible.

The next week Coach Younger’s men suffered their most serious reverse of the season when the Purple Hurricane whirled them
off their feet and won 30-0. The blocked punts gave the Hurricane its first two touchdowns.

Against N. C. State's Wolfpack, the Wildcats showed a reversal of form but were nosed out 12-6 in a battle
in which both teams used every card they had. The heavier team won by its line-smashing attack.

Fumbled punts hurt the Wildcats in the game with the Tigers and the Palmetto team won 12-0. Neither team was
able to gain much ground.

With five regulars on the sidelines the Wildcats lost to Carolina 14-3. The Davidson team exhibited the best attack of
the year and gave the Tar Heels a scare when they scored first via the field goal route.

The men who have been out with injuries for part of the season are Summers, Hodgin, Baker, OcArmon, Fields, and
Boggs.

CRUTE, Fullback Trinity

Crute could not resist the call of the gridiron this fall and finally reported. The Methodists are banking their hopes
on him to skid through the Wildcat line.

BURNS, Halfback Trinity

This Blue Devil back will be waiting on the sidelines today to relieve any of the first stringers.

THE BEST ONE YET! SPECIFIC AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT POLICY

which covers injuries, fatal or non-fatal, suffered while driving, riding in, demonstrating, adjusting or cranking an automobile, or through being
struck, run down or run over by an automobile, or caused by the burning or explosion of an automobile. No
medical examination is required.

This broad policy pays—

$1,000.00 (increasing to $1,500 in five years) for Loss of Life, Both Eyes, Both Hands, Both Feet, One Hand and
One Foot, or One Eye and One Hand or Foot;

$500.00 For Loss of One Hand or One Foot (increasing to $750.00);

$350.00 For Loss of One Eye (increasing to $525.00);

$25.00 Weekly Indemnity for total disabling injuries;

$40.00 Weekly Indemnity for confinement in Hospital;

$12.50 Weekly Indemnity for partially disabling injuries;

$100.00 For Emergency Expenses;

$5.00 For Treatment of Non-Disabling injuries.

The Annual Premium is but $5.00.

W. E. PRICE

30 W. Fifth St.

RENOVATORS of All Kinds of HATS and CAPS

25 Shoe Shine Chairs---No Waiting Suits Cleaned and Pressed Hats Cleaned and Reblocked

METROPOLITAN HATTERS

See JOE GARRISON For ARMY and NAVY GOODS Including

Shoes Sweaters Sweat Shirts Leather Leggins Hunting Coats, Etc.

THE FREDERICKSON CO. 311 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

GILMER-MOORE CO.

SHOES LUGGAGE HOSIERY

