6 = THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

NEW DORMITORY ALMOST IN COMPLETED STAGE

One of the most attractive additions to Davidson this year is the new Watts dormitory. This building is rapidly being brought to completion. The first and second floors have been in use since the first of school, but those who had reserved rooms on the third and fourth floors have just been out of luck. However, within the next few days these two upper floors will be ready for occupancy. The contractor states that by Monday, October 8th, he hopes to have everything near enough completed for the boys to move into their new domicile. The floor-layers say that they will be ready for the “elevated walkways” to be taken out Friday, October 5th. Work on the new building has been pushed forward as rapidly as possible but it has been impossible to get material in time to finish the building before now. The floors in the hallways are made of a rubber composition. These floors can be easily damaged if used too soon, but if given time to dry perfectly will last indefinitely.

EIGHT NEW REPORTERS RECEIVED INTO CLUB

The Reporters’ Club of the Davidsonian Saturday welcomed eight new scriveners into its midst. Appleby, Gibbs, Marshall, Millhouse, O’Connor, Pitts, E. K. Regen, and H. L. Shaw were the men who received the honors and who offered such a delightful program at the movies on Saturday evening. Regent, Marshall, and Shaw were the beautiful and graceful nymphs who rendered most aesthetically the negligee dance which received such a round of applause. O’Connor’s interpretation of the cheerleader's actions at the P. C. game was well received. Gibbs, with his Billy Sunday antics, gave an accurate idea to those who could not go to the game as to how the P. C. boys fought for their zero. Appleby, as he still is and always will be, was a Freshman. Pitts was right there when it came to yelling. Milhous was absent from the elaborate ceremony, but it can’t be imagined he missed the feed which came afterward and was prepared by Regen.

CLASS BASKETBALL TO BE BIG FALL SPORT

The initial step for the advancement of inter-class sports was taken last week when G. M. Hodgin was elected manager of the Senior class basketball team. Next week a committee composed of representatives from the four classes will meet to make arrangements for beginning the sport and to work out a schedule for practicing and dates for the inter-class contests. By next week it is expected to have the floor and goals in the gym in shape so that those aspirants for honors in the loop circuit may get to work. In the race for championship honors on the basketball floor last year, more pep and enthusiasm was raised than in anything else on the Hill, with the exception of course of the intercollegiate games. The pennant was finally won by the quint of the class of ’25, which has been recognized as probably the strongest class team in the history of the sport at Davidson. It won several games with the “Y” teams in this section of the State. The classes of ’23 and ’24 were tied for second place honors. The famous quint that ’25 had last year is gone, for Boggs and Staley have a varsity letter, and Mitchell and Anderson did not return. This year will find all of the squads evenly matched and it looks like a fine season is in store.

STUDENT BODY INSTITUTES HONOR STORE

(Continued from page 1)

body treasury. The funds so derived will eventually be used for some phase of college life, possibly replacing the old custom of having the Freshman class buy football sweaters, or other such customs. Manager Young, in requesting the cooperation of the students toward making this adventure a success, stated that the store will be opened within the next three weeks. The line of goods, consisting of a complete line of candies, cats, fruits, tablets, pencils, and possibly cigars and cigarettes, will be handled. Nothing that will in any way work opposition to the business of the Davidson College Commissary will be handled. The store will be run in opposition to the sandwich and candy stands now on the campus and will not directly replace them. Crown Prince has succeeded in securing the Nunnally’s agency for the store and will be ready at any time to fill orders for the students on short notice. The store bids fair to be a success in the quarters which will be turned over to it upon the completion of Watts. Manager Young has asked that a plea be extended to the student body for its honest cooperation in this, one of Davidson’s greatest advertisements and business boosts.

HUNT’S PLACE KICK

(Continued from page 1)

strategy. Pearce, the safety man, was playing close; Mallory passed the ball back, but instead of a line buck, Gig Shepherd lifted a spiral over Pearce’s head, which rolled to the 10-yard line. The P. C. Comet attempted to reverse his field, but a beautiful diving tackle by Faison brought him down on his 10-yard line. Hindman then ripped off a 50-yard punt, but Hendrix returned 30 yards to the 30-yard line. Ted Covington relieved Doc DeArmon, who had played a wonderful defensive game at half. Covington and Black then knifed off tackle for two first downs, placing the ball on the 9-yard line. The watch was ticking off the seconds and only a couple of minutes of play remained. The Bluestockings held Black for a yard gain. Then Popsy Hunt trotted onto the field and Ted Covington, who had delivered in the pinch, went back to the sidelines. Black carefully leveled the ground on the 20-yard mark, and the two teams lined up for the crucial test. The thin Red line which had been so battered early in the fracas stood the test. Fields snapped the ball back, Black placed it in an instant, and Hunt sent the ball hurtling over the bar while the forwards piled up in a tangled mass 10 yards away. Pandemonium broke loose in the Red and Black stands. Victory, which but a few moments before had seemed impossible, had been won. There was but a minute and a half to play. Shepherd kicked off to Pearce and the South Carolinians made a desperate bid for the game via the aerial route. Three passes were broken up. On the fourth down Bailey caught a pass but was downed on his 35-yard line as the whistle blew. It was a bitterly fought struggle from start to finish. The Wildcats had the edge in ground gaining and made eight first downs to seven for the Clinton team. The Red and Black team started off with a rush in the first quarter. Hendrix received the kickoff and returned 15 yards to the 30-yard line. Then Hendrix and Shepherd by a series of sweeping end runs and off tackle plays, advanced the ball to the South Carolinians’ 40-yard line. Gig punted out of bounds on the Presbyterians’ 2-yard line. The Bluestockings punted and again the Wildcats carried the ball to the 25-yard mark. The remainder of the period developed into a punting duel between Hindman and Shepherd. The South Carolinians had a little the best of the argument, but the ball was kept in P. C. territory the greater part of the time. Shepherd punted to Pearce as the quarter closed and Captain Faison tackled him on the 17-yard line. After an interchange of punts the Palmetto team got the ball on their 30-yard line and with the aid of an offside penalty which gave them a first down, carried the ball to Davidson’s 35-yard line. Hendrix circled left end for 10 yards but failed to gain on two attempts. Pearce returned Shepherd’s punt to midfield as the half ended. Pearce was the bright light for the P. C. team. He ran back punts and kickoffs with lightning speed and was a consistent gainer through the line. Clinton also ploughed through the line for substantial gains. Hindman, who did the kicking for the Red and Blue, averaged around 40 yards, despite one or two short kicks. The P. C. line held the Wildcat runners time after time for no gain. Black proved the best gainer for theRed and Black, with Gig Shepherd a close second. Jim Hendrix ran his team like a veteran and slipped off tackle and around end for good gains. Flash Covington, who went in during the final minutes, carried the ball three times and gained on every play. Doc DeArmon proved a wonder at backing up the line. When the P. C. backs slipped through the line, Doc nailed them every time. Captain Faison made some pretty tackles and both wingmen kept their opponents from gaining around the flanks. Sam Summers played a steady game at tackle, and few plays ran over him. Flake Laird broke through to break up several passes. Most of the P. C. gains were made over the center of the line, but when needed, the line held like a stone wall and the Bluestockings never passed the 10-yard line. Once Moore broke through the line, but fumbled and Hendrix recovered on the 10-yard line. Most of the 1,500 Winthrop girls were on the P. C. side of the stadium, but what the Red and Black supporters lacked in quantity they made up for in quality and supported the Wildcats to the limit. From the viewpoint of the American Legion, the game was a complete success and they have matched the yearling teams of the two institutions at Rock Hill on the 18th, during the fair.

MR. FRANK ORR SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

interest from the beginning. Warren Cox read the scripture lesson and Vic Brown led the singing, with Wade Allison as pianist. Mr. Orr was introduced by Vic Brown as one of the rising lawyers of Charlotte and a man fully in sympathy with college men. He graduated from Westminster College and completed his education at the University of North Carolina Law School. While at Westminster he was on the baseball team four years and also on the track team. From the very start Mr. Orr impressed his listeners with a conviction that he knew of what he was speaking. “You be the jury,” he said, “and I shall be the lawyer defending the case, and endeavor to prove to you the truthfulness of the Bible.” He asserted that the Bible has many enemies today and that there are thousands who are on the borderland of doubt and faith, knowing not what to believe. “He who alleges, or makes an allegation, must prove it,” he said. “He who alleges that the Bible is not true, must prove it, as the presumption that the Bible is true, is evident. By these few points I shall try to convince you as I would a jury that the truth of the Bible is unquestionable.

“First, its life through persecution of the harshest kind is a proof of its truth. Though attacked by the rich and powerful unbelievers, though scorned and disdained, it has come down to us through the ages as a symbol of God's truth.

“Second, its effect on heathen nations, when preached to them, raising them from the lowest depths to a place in the world.

“Third, every church, hospital, orphan asylum and every other Christian institution is a proof that the Bible and its teachings are true. In our own minds we have the deep-rooted conviction that the Bible is true. What do we do in moments of deepest sorrow and anguish? We turn to the simple faith as taught us at our mothers’ knees. The faith that arose in childhood days continues all through life, perhaps unnoticed except when we feel that all have deserted us and that there is no one but God.”

The speaker scoffed at the creation of the earth as outlined by scientists. He said that it is easier for one to believe that the world was fashioned and designed by a master mind who encompassed love and all that is good, than to believe that it spontaneously arose from a floating mass of nebulous vapor. “How much easier it is to believe,” said he, “that the world we know is of divine origin than to think that it happened by accident.” He gave several interesting and humorous incidents which further proved his statements. He said that atheists who are unwilling to accept anything they do not believe in or understand could not explain the divine plan and workings of nature, the seasons, the wind, or the marvelous miracle there is in the change from a grain of wheat to a tall stalk bearing other grains, etc. The speaker also attacked those who are prone not to believe in the divinity of Jesus Christ. “If we,” he asked, “can believe and accept the workings and power of the great universe, is it not easy for us to accept the miracle of the virgin birth? All nature is under the sway of God, and unless we accept the grace of God through Jesus Christ our Saviour, we shall follow the inevitable law of nature, that all things return to the dust from whence they came. Christian or Biblical history accords exactly with all profane history. We should steer clear of all doctrines that try to refute this fact and have us believe that the Bible is untrue from every standpoint.”

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB COMES

Arrangements have been completed with the Carolina Concert Club of Charlotte for a concert to be given in Shearer Hall Monday evening, October 22nd. This will be one of the best musical events of the season, the club being one of the most popular singing organizations in Charlotte and under the direction of Mrs. Coral H. Baker whose work as a director is well known throughout the state. In addition to the ten members of the club there will be several assisting artists selected from among the most popular musicians in Charlotte, one of whom will probably be Miss Nan Gordon, noted violinist. W. H. Neal, ’17, and a former member of the Davidson Glee Club is managing the concert for the Carolina Concert Club.

The College Newspaper

Every college gets its money’s worth through the college newspaper. It’s the wagon that carries all the opinions of the student body and the faculty. It ought to be kept in good repair. It will pay to grease it, paint it and keep its running gears in good shape and shelter. Stand by your college newspaper. It’s the guardian and defender of every interest, the forerunner and pioneer of every advance movement and the sturdy advocate of law and order. Take it away and it would not be six weeks before the college would look as if it were doped. Pep would be gone, society would yawn, and grass would grow up over the campus.

BLACK AS THE ACE OF SPADES—SMOOTH AS A POLISHED JEWEL

First Pen made for Students only

Designed by Geo. S. Parker for their special needs and made by Duofold craftsmen—yet offered at only $3

Just as the Parker Duofold and Lady Duofold are recognized as the aristocrats of pens priced at $5 and higher, so this new Parker D. Q. is the blue-blood of pens in the medium-priced class. Indeed the same crafts-guild that produces Parker Duofold makes this Parker D. Q. that we announce at only $3. Parker designed this carefully for the study of the students’ requirements and desires. Hence it’s a pen that is practically made to the students’ order. We know of no other with this special ring to link to note-book, and no other this size under $5 with a special metal girdle to reinforce the cap. Yet no extra charge is made for these features, or for the super-smooth point of 14k gold tipped with Native Iridium. Insist on seeing this new creation. Any good pen counter can supply you, but look for the stamp “Geo. S. Parker—Lucky Curve.”

THE PARKER PEN COMPANY, JANESVILLE, WIS.
Manufacturers also of Parker “Lucky Lock” Pencils

Parker D. Q.
Banded Cap—Large Ring or Clip—Duofold Standards

Written with a Parker by Walter F. Koppisch Columbia's famous football captain

FOR SALE BY
WHITE DRUG CO.
W. S. HENDERSON

The Davidsonian is now starting on a new era of prosperity. Help us to make it better still by giving it your loyal support in the days to come.

P. O. Box 123

FOR REAL SILK --- WOOL GUARANTEED HOSIERY SEE CAMPBELL McINTYRE No. 17 Georgia