THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

A WORD OF GREETING FROM THE PRESIDENT OF THE CLASS

Greetings to the Men of 1902:

I have been requested to send a word of greeting to you through the pages of the Davidsonian. Since graduation day I have been too busy to follow your personal fortunes very closely; but I think each and all of you have won a place in life attended with some degree of success. If any of you have failed, try again; if any of you are discouraged, hope on; if any of you have turned back, face about; if any of you have won success, use it, not for personal gratification, but for the larger things of life.

You are in the prime and glory of life. Now is the most marvelous age of human history. Every door is an open door. Men at heart are good. The world fundamentally sound. Every man gets from the world that which he puts into the world. It depends upon you as to whether the voices that greet you speak in growls of thunder or in sympathetic, encouraging terms of ministering angels. It’s up to YOU!

Yours,
SAM E. HODGES.

THOMAS PAYNE BAGLEY
“Tom”
B.S.; Phi; Pi K. A.; Marshal, '98; Second Supervisor, Vice-President and First Critic of Society; Class Football; Class Baseball; Captain Class Football, '99; Executive Committee Athletic Association; Business Manager and member Mandolin and Guitar Clubs, Secretary and Treasurer, German Club.

After graduation, Mr. Bagley accepted a position with the city schools in Wilmington, N. C., his home town, where he taught for two years. He died in 1904, following a brief illness.

WILLIAM RUSSELL CLEGG
“Pap”
B.S.; Phi; First Supervisor, Vice-President of Phi Society; Debater’s Medal; Commencement Orator, '01; President Society; Class Baseball; Class Football; Class Historian, '00-'01; Varsity Football, '02; Editor Quips and Cranks, '02.

After graduation, Mr. Clegg began work in his home town of Carthage, N. C., and has remained there. At present he is at the head of a large bank, and has other business connections as well. He has succeeded in life in a large way, and Davidson is proud of his success.

ROBERT THORNWELL COIT
“Bob”
A.B.; Phi; First Critic, Second Critic, Vice-President, First Critic of Society; Vice-President Class '99-'00; Secretary Y. M. C. A., '00-'01; Commencement Orator; Marshal; Editor, Davidson College Magazine, President Y. M. C. A.; Vice-President Student Body; Library Committee.

Mr. Coit chose the mission field as his life work, and upon completing his theological course at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., he took up active work on the mission field at Soonchun, Korea, where he has brought honor to himself, his Alma Mater, and his Class.

PALMER CLISBY DuBOSE
“Big Bow”
A.B.; Eu; Beta Theta Pi; Vice-President, and Reviewer of Society; Commencement Orator; Orator’s Medal; Class President, '98-'99; Captain, Class Football; Library Committee; Editor Quips and Cranks, '02.

Mr. DuBose's parents were missionaries in Soochow, China, and quite naturally, he decided to follow in his father’s footsteps. Upon completion of his studies at Davidson he entered Union Seminary, and from there sailed for China. He has proved his mettle on the mission field, where he has achieved great things.

RUFO McAMIS FITZPATRICK
“Fitz”
A.B.; Phi; Kappa Sigma; Vice-President, First Critic of Society; Marshal; Varsity Football (3 years); Varsity Baseball (4 years); Varsity Track (3 years); Captain Class Football, '98; Captain Varsity Football, '00; Executive Committee; Secretary and Vice-President, Athletic Association; Editor Quips and Cranks, '98-'02; Editor Magazine, '00-'01; Class Historian, '96; President Tennis Association.

Mr. Fitzpatrick came to Davidson from Asheville, N. C. Upon graduation from college he returned to Asheville and entered business. He enlisted in the state militia in 1912, and served on the Mexican border. At the outbreak of the war he was commissioned Chief Marshal; Editor-in-Chief Magazine.

We are happy indeed of the privilege of devoting the Alumni page of this issue of the Davidsonian entirely to the class of 1902. A summary of the graduates follows on this and the next page.

CLASS OF 1902
Total number Graduates --------- 14
Ministers ------------------------ 1
Missionaries --------------------- 3
Doctors -------------------------- 22sis2. 5 sees 2 | aWyGriecewe ot oe eo os 1 Civil Engineer -...-._____ 1 MRCAGHEH ss wes= ocr ns 1 | Business i es ee ee 2 { > Ratimet: 2222s ee ee 1 list Lieutenant. On August 5, 1917, he sailed for France, as Commander of Company B, 115th Machine Gun Battalion, 30th Division, which position he held until October 10, 1918. He was wounded in battle on October 10, 1918, and removed to an army hospital in London, where he spent four months. Lieutenant Fitzpatrick was returned to the United States in March, 1919. In September, 1920, he was commissioned Captain, which rank he holds at present. He is now doing R.O.T.C. work in Dallas, Tex. Captain Fitzpatrick is one of the outstanding men of his class.

PETER GAILLARD GOURDIN
“Pete” B.S.; Eu; Sigma Epsilon; Secretary, Vice-President of Society; Business Manager Magazine; Class Track; Varsity Track; Library Committee. Mr. Gourdin chose Civil Engineering as his field of labor, and after several years’ preparation settled in Kingstree, S.C., his native city. Mr. Gourdin is today one of the leading citizens of Kingstree, a loyal son of Davidson, whose labors have been rewarded with unusual success.

SAMUEL EDGAR HODGES
“Parson” A.B.; Secretary, Supervisor, Vice-President of Society; Editor Magazine; Treasurer Y.M.C.A.; Vice-President Class, '98-'99; Secretary Class, '99-'00; President Class, '01-'02; Editor Quips and Cranks, '02; Class Baseball. Mr. Hodges, as signified by his nickname, entered the ministry, preparing himself for this work at Union Theological Seminary. Since graduating from Seminary, Mr. Hodges has occupied several important pulpits, and is at present doing a fine work as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Anniston, Ala. His address is 216 East Tenth Street, Anniston, Ala.

CAPTAIN REID MORRISON OUTSTANDING MAN OF ’02
Rufus Reid Morrison is one of the outstanding members of the class of 1902, who have placed themselves in a position to merit the praise of the world. Reid Morrison came from Mooresville, N.C., to enter Davidson College with the class of 1902, and before its graduation, had well made his mark in it. After graduation, he took up the profession of medicine in Mooresville, for which he had prepared himself while in college. At the entrance of the United States into the World War, Mr. Morrison organized, in July, 1917, a company at Mooresville, N.C., which was afterwards inducted into the national army, August 5, 1917, as Battery G, 113th Field Artillery. Among the first to be sent to France from Camp Sevier, Okla., Captain Morrison took part in all the important engagements of the American forces. He sailed May 27, 1918, arrived in France, and took up his training at Camp Coetquidan; being sent a short time later to the front, where he fought in the Toul offensive, St. Mihiel offensive, Meuse-Argonne offensive, Troyes defensive, and the Woevre offensive. He arrived in the United States on March 19, 1919, and was discharged from service March 28, 1919. Prior to his enlistment into the Expeditionary Forces, Captain Morrison had seen service in the Mexican Border Patrol of 1916 as an officer in the National Guard. He had also been in the service for 10 years as an instructor in side arms in the national army. Coming from a long line of warriors, it is no wonder that Captain Morrison found his calling partly as a fighter through these wars. His father was an officer under Stonewall Jackson during the Civil War, and among his ancestors, many names are put down as officers under the famous generals of the world. It may be interesting to note that Reid Morrison's grandfather was the first president of Davidson College, and the impetus from which came the high standing of the college today. The name of Morrison is ever to be connected with the renown of Davidson College.

JOHN WILSON McCONNELL
“Mac” B.S.; Eu; Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Secretary Society, '00; V.-Pres. Society, '01; President Society, '02; Reviewer Society, '01; Chairman Executive Committee, '01-'02; Declaimer’s Medal; Class Basketball Team; Class Football Team; Manager Class Football Team, '01; College Track Team (3 years); Manager College Track Team, '02.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE