THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 19, 1923

Movie Advance

The picture for this week will be a production of Rex Beach’s famous novel “The Spoilers.” It is a stirring
photoplay of the historic clash that occurred in the Klondike gold region when crooked politicians tried to rob the miners
of their properties. It pictures vividly the adventures, hardships, and rampant greed and the devotion which were so forcibly brought
out among the people taking part in this great gold rush. The best known of the cast of this picture
include Milton Sills, Anna Q. Nilsson, Noah Beery, Ford Sterling, and Louise Fazenda. The superb cast coupled with the story
make “The Spoilers” one of the outstanding feature pictures of the year. It is exciting and entertaining from start to
finish with a sprinkle of comedy running through it.

Milton Sills, who is playing the part of Roy Glennister, and Noah Beery, impersonating the villainous Alex McNamara, engage in
what is without a doubt the greatest screen fight ever filmed. It is stated that it required five days to
film this scene alone, and it occupies fully ten minutes of the picture. Both men are excellent fighters, as well
as actors, and they do both well in this picture.

“The Spoilers” will be shown at 7:15 Friday night and the admission is 25 cents. Please bring chairs if possible.

Coming attractions are:

SPECIAL ATTRACTIONS IN COMING LYCEUM COURSE

Through the efforts of the Y. M. C. A. to give the students some entertainment and at the same time
add to their Blue Ridge Fund, a lyceum course of four attractions will be offered at Davidson this year. The
first attraction will appear next Tuesday, October 23, in Shearer Hall. A successful lyceum is practically certain. Keen interest is
being shown in it.

This series of lyceum numbers has been booked through the Piedmont Bureau, of Asheville, N. C. This bureau offers some
of the best lyceum, concert, and chautauqua attractions that tour the South. Davidson College has been assured a good troupe
with each performance, and a lyceum course will likely be a regular institution of the college. Through the lyceum course,
much of interest can be learned about different phases of art and life. Those performers who compose the several lyceum
troupes are artists along their lines of entertainment. Especially can this be said about those forming the troupes that will
show at Davidson this year.

VISITORS ON THE HILL DURING WEEK-END

As an additional feature of Home Coming Day, there were many guests on the Hill. The following are some of
them, who were guests of the various fraternities:

Bachelors—Mrs. Ted Cashion, Misses Frances Wood, Charlotte Milstead, Mary Mills Ham, Frances Coleman, Elizabeth Dillard, Sarah Carson, Elsie Brown, Leila
Cox, Adelaide McAllister.

Beta Theta Pi—Misses Winship Steadman, Elizabeth Simpson, Louise Cook, Katie Norwood, Isabel Miller, Katherine Allen, Mary Evans, Dorothy Hinkle, Alice
Lentz, Mary Grier Poe, Rutledge Dudley, Hazelton, Webber.

Kappa Alpha—Misses Hester Banks, Edith Gilchrist, Sara Workman, Virginia Loving, Nancy Gray, Faith Dudley, Wayne Dudley, Julia Staley, Eileen Johnston.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Mrs. F. J. Wright, Mrs. Soboster, Misses Rachel Witherington, Dot Burney, Gilda Wiley, Anna Long, Laura Tillett, Inez
Gold, Rose Hadley, Martha Murray.

Kappa Sigma—Misses Margaret Vaughn, Louise Hastings, Dash Dorough, Ollie Bell Williams, Annette Wright, Amy Lane, Eloise Martin, Amy Lawrence, Dot
Dorough, Margaret Harris, Frances Williamson, McKelver, Frances Williamson, Mary Louise Latta, Sis Nelson.

Pi Kappa Alpha—Misses Mary Lee Knuckols, Lois Rogers, Mary Neil Wilkins, Mary Irene Bowie, Helen Hardy, Mary Agnes Funderburke, Margie
McLeod, Mildred Armstrong.

Delta Theta Chi—Misses Mary Anna Miller, Aida Faulkner, Marie Ayres, Gladys Julian, Katie Bess Anderson, Mary Anderson, Mary Kelly, Lillian
Rogers, Myra Monk.

Phi Alpha Pi—Misses Ruth Starnes, Louise Kay, Mary Brown, Elizabeth Neel, Frances Armstrong, Lois Claytor, Henrietta Still, Anna West, Coan.

WILDCATS MEET BAPTISTS ON WEARN FIELD SATURDAY

The coming Saturday, the Wildcat eleven will journey to Charlotte to play the Baptist aggregation on Wearn field, the scene
of the tie that was inflicted by Wake Forest last year. The Wake Forest team seems to be in better
shape and working more smoothly than last year in spite of the fact that they have a comparatively new line-up.
Heckman, who has proved Davidson’s jinx in more than one past encounter, is gone. It was he who hurled the
pass high over the Davidson safety man’s...head, to be seized by the fleet | Baptist end and carried for the
touchdown | that tied the score in last year’s game. Day- | On The four attractions booked for this season
are the LaSalle Bell Ringing Quartet, the Freeman Hammond Company, the Sham- rock Trio, and The Virginia Girls. The first
lyceum attraction this year is to be the LaSalle Bell Ringing Quartet of which it has been said, “The LaSalle
Bell Ringing Quartette are among the best of bell players, and present a variety of selections | that are calculated
to please every taste and | temperament found in any and every audi- | ence.” In addition to the bell
ringing fea- ture of the program, the Quartet offers a varied program of songs and readings. Dates have not been
announced for the other three performances. The Freeman Hammond Company is a troupe of exper- ienced actors presenting two good
plays, “The Man from Kokomo” and “Patches.” These are first-class plays and present inci- | dents and experiences of life,
sympathetically interpreted by the actors. The Shamrock Trio is a group of humor- | ists and comedians. They present a
clever | program and one that will be thoroughly en- joyed by all. | Very little advance dope has been
received | about the Virginia Girls, but it is certain that | their performance will be of such magnitude that
it will draw an enthusiastic audience from both the college and the village. The Y. M. C. A. is fostering
this lyceum in an effort to secure funds to send delegates to the Blue Ridge Conference of college stu- dents
next June, when Davidson hopes to be better represented than ever before.

STUNT NIGHT (Continued from page 1)

David Blues.” George Dupuy did some trick playing on the cornet which pleased the audience very much, and Crayton and
Simpson played a saxophone duet with some fine harmony in it. The second feature of the evening was an extra
number put on by the Sigma | Harry Price, W. I. Howell, and J. | Earnest each delivered a satirical
hu- | morous | During His Forty Years Wandering in | This innovation at Davidson was heart- | idly welcomed
and enjoyed by every- | body. | they might be able to show him his place | at last. Stringfield,
another strong back of | last year’s team, is also. A Junior class stunt followed next in | the form
of a mock Senior Speaking. J. | A. Lake acted as presiding officer and | on some “bombastic | Shakespeare's
Life, | address such as, subject, the Wilderness.” H. M. Austin of the Freshman class entertained the audience | with
two Mexican songs accompanied on the guitar by J. R. Earnest. | gave an exhibition of her ability on |
offense when she swamped the Lynchburg | team from Virginia 25-0. The Baptist elev- | en scored a touchdown each
quarter. The | feature of the game was the aerial work of | the Baptists. Two of the four touchdowns
| were the result of forward passes. Rackley, | cond game last Saturday, Wake: was coached by Professor Erwin. The
characters were taken as follows: Captain Saggatt—R. L. Price. Loretta, his daughter—Miss Sarah Lingle. Murdoch, a mate—Bevo Davis. Dick, a
stowaway—H. M. White. This is one of the finest plays of this type ever produced by local talent. It was
one of the main events of an even- ing replete with entertaining and worth- while features. The Mandolin and Guitar
Club play- ed two pieces, “La Golondrina” and “Who’s Sorry Now.” The players were L. D. Elkins, W. H. Crane,
J. R. Earnest, and B. F. Earnest. This was followed by the Senior class stunt which consist- ed of a
mock Senior class meeting for the purpose of determining what the class gift to the college would be. The meeting
was led by Ted Jones and speeches were made by Watt McCain, R. L. Price, J. H. McConnell, L. D.
Elkins, R. H. McMillan, George Dupuy, J. W. Simpson, and John Parrish. The Upsilon literary fraternity as part of the
initiation of its new members. Bevo Davis, impersonating Ikey Morris, at- Program of the show was closed by the singing
of “O Davidson” by the cast and the audience. | playing quarterback for Wake Forest, will | bear the most
watching, while Greason and | Griffin are also showing up well. On the other hand, the Wildcat eleven is |
out to win and scrapping hard. They are | using their heads as well as their feet: Elon, | P.
C., and Citadel have gone down to defeat in turn. The Wildcats invaded the Virginia Techmen in their lair and
the V. P. I. team | were glad to get their lone marker that Lady Luck handed them in the
form of an inter- cepted pass after the Red and Black team had outplayed them the whole game.

PANDEINICS ENJOY USUAL DEBATE AND DECLAMATION

Two new members were received into the Pandeinic Literary Society at its meeting on Oct. 9th. They were W. F.
Glenn and A. F. Simpson of the Junior class. The program of the society was not espec- ially well prepared.
The debaters did not seem to know their subjects very well, and consequently their arguments were not es- pecially convincing.
The question for de- bate was: Resolved, That the Towner- Stirling Bill should be enacted into law. C. G. Affen
and O'Connor debated on the affirmative while Garrison and Beall upheld the negative. On the other hand, the declamation and
current events were good. Bordeau had his declamation well prepared and though it was delivered remarkably well. O. J. Allison
gave some very interesting and up-to-date events.

The Young Men’s Store

SUITS
Y. M. and sport models, serges and worsteds, blue, brown, pin stripes, plaids, and checks

OVERCOATS
Plaids, browns, and grey mixtures, plain and belt models

TOP COATS
Whip cords and Gaberdines with belts and fancy yokes

We carry a complete stock of gents' furnishings, hats, leather goods, and trunks

Lingle Clothing Company
203 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BELK BROS. CO.
Clothing Department

We are showing a complete line of College Boys’ Suits, Hats, and Furnishing Goods at attrac- tive prices. Come in
and see what wonderful values we have to offer.

YOUNG MEN’S HAND-TAILORED SUITS
Schloss, Styleplus, and Belk hand-tailored Suits made in the Season’s Newest Patterns and Materials at $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50

NEW FELT HATS
New Fall Hats in Snappy Shapes and Patterns $2.95, $3.95, $4.95, and $7.00

MEN’S DRESS SHIRTS
Men’s fine dress shirts made of best grade Percal and Madras, made with and without collars. 98c, $1.50, and $2.00

MEN’S TIES
Silk and Knit Ties, new shapes and beautiful colors. 48c, 75c, 98c, and $1.50

MEN’S UNDERWEAR
Men’s Nainsook union suits, all sizes 48c, 63c, 98c
Men’s medium weight union suits 98c, $1.25, $1.50

MEN’S HOSIERY
Men’s lisle hose, all the leading colors 25c and 35c
Men’s silk sox 48c, 85c, $1.00
