THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 23, 1923

Former classmates and friends of Rev. J. G. Patton, '16, will be glad to learn that he has recently been
installed as pastor of the Pryor Street Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, Ga. Since graduating from Davidson, Mr. Patton spent two years
in the army as a lieutenant, and then finished his seminary course at Union Seminary. His first charge was at
Lawrenceville, Ga., where he did a wonderful work. He and Mrs. Patton, by their untiring efforts, built up the Sunday
School tremendously and established the graded Sunday School system. Mr. Patton also established the every member canvass as a system
for financing the church and increased the membership of the church over 50 percent. Mr. Patton is probably one of
the best preachers among the younger ministers of the church, and his countless friends are glad to see him succeeding
so well in his chosen work.

Members of the Class of '23 on the Hill for the opening were Bob McLeod, Tally Elliott, Johnny Adams, Sam
Davis, Pat Crawford, Snag Bailey, and Harold Covington. J. B. Bryan, a member of last year’s Freshman class, spent a
few days on the Hill en route to Charlottesville, Va., where he will enter U. of Va. as a student
this year. Preston B. Carwile, '20, was united in marriage on September 4th, at Chester, Va., to Miss Lois Corinne
Ketcham. Mr. John James, '08, has established law offices in Charlotte, N. C. Members of the Class of '23 will
be interested to learn of the marriage of R. E. Sydenstricker and Miss Elizabeth Bell, at Lewisburg, W. Va., on
August 15th.

CLASSMATES OF 1893 GATHER FOR REUNION

One of the liveliest features of the 1923 Commencement at Davidson was the reunion of the members of the Class
of 1893, celebrating the thirtieth anniversary of their graduation. In many ways, the Class of 1893 is the most remarkable
class that ever graduated from Davidson. Old-timers remember it as the noisiest class that lived on the campus. It had
class spirit, pep, and enthusiasm surpassing any and all other classes. It was under the leadership of members of this
class that Davidson heard its first college yell. The class of '93 was the first class in the history of
Davidson to adopt a class yell; to give a class day celebration; to adopt an original class song; to organize
a glee club; and to give Davidson a scholarship within the first year after its graduation. The class of '98,
which was so completely overshadowed by the Class of '93 that they were scarcely noticeable, passed resolutions determining to follow
the spirit of '93.

The most beautiful part of '93's celebration, however, was not observed by the public in general. That was the beautifully
appointed class dinner given to the members by Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle at their home Tuesday evening. The
long table was decorated in the class colors, corn and wine, the whole color scheme being beautifully carried out in
every part of the dinner. The discussion of timely topics drifted from one end of the cycle to the other,
and there was a difference of opinion on a great many subjects, such as “The problem of teaching High School
Girls;” “The Easiest Way to Get an M.D. Degree;” “When a trick play should be used in football,” etc. But
there was an agreement on one subject, and that was “Davidson.” When the name of Davidson was mentioned, there was
a silence born of reverence, and for a moment there was a light in the eye of every '22 man
assembled there in that little band, that spoke of something inexpressible; a love that means gratitude for a service rendered.
And then '22 pledged anew her loyalty to Alma Mater in those words that bring tears to the eyes of
strong men:

When our college days are over,
And our ways shall part,
Still to thee we'll be united,
Still be one at heart.

'22 has already begun to make plans for a reunion in '27 that will long be remembered. With four years
to plan for it, it should be a success. Commencement was a great success and was enjoyed by every member
of the class. Allow us to pay a tribute to '23 and her class president, Bascomb Sorrells. You deserve credit
for the splendid exercises and our best wishes go with you as you face the world, which is not so
unkind after all if you'll only do your part. To the Class of '24, by whose hands the ship of
state will be guided this year, our best wishes.

HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
Andrews Music Store
211-213 N. Tryon Street

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
Davidson, N. C.

“Skit’s” place has been a hangout almost since the college was established. This building is probably now the oldest in
Davidson, since the burning of Chambers. It is operated as a modern and up-to-date tea room by Sadie Schofield, daughters
of Colonel Schofield, better known as Skit. Misses Minnie andun-expected, who measures the possibility of the unexpected striking. Of its
20 graduates, 15 of them entered the ministry, a percentage perhaps never equaled by any other class. Of its 20
graduates, three are today full-fledged professors at Davidson—Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. L. Douglas, and Dr. J. M. Douglas.
Possibly no other class in the history of Davidson has given back to its alma mater such a large percentage
of its membership. In addition to these professors, the Class of 1923 has given Rev. W. M. Hunter to the
financial department of the college. Thus four of its 20 graduates are today connected with the college. These, and other
items too numerous to mention, justify the statement that '93 is probably the most remarkable class ever graduated at Davidson.
'93 was expected to live up to its reputation when the members, 11 of them, met on the campus Tuesday,
June 5, 1923, and began their celebration. And they did. They startled the banqueters at the Alumni Banquet when they
cut loose with their class song and class yell. But the real celebration came after the class dinner as one
of the finest features of their class career. Those who attended the dinner were: Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle,
Davidson, N. C.; Rev. and Mrs. H. D. Brown, China Grove, N. C.; Rev. and Mrs. W. C. Brown, Raeford,
N. C.; Prof. J. L. Douglas; Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas; Rev. V. R. Gaston; Rev. and Mrs. J.
H. Grey, Bedford, Va.; Rev. and Mrs. W. M. Hunter; Rev. Chas. Montgomery, Victoria, Va.; Rev. S. W. Moore, Bluefield,
W. Va.; and Mrs. Thos. G. Hyman, Newbern, N.C. Dr. Lingle acted as toastmaster and did it splendidly. Many were
the yarns spun, the anecdotes told on members of the class; the songs and yells were given in profusion and
a bit of confusion at times; a rising vote of thanks given Dr. and Mrs. Lingle for making this reunion
the most delightful in the history of the class. Dr. Lingle had been the moving spirit in creating interest in
the reunion and urging members to attend. The members who could not be there certainly missed a treat, and we
expect them at the 1928 reunion when we hope to celebrate our 35th anniversary. Great and remarkable is the Class
of 1893! And great is Davidson! Come on, you alumni, put some pep into your reunions and make a noise.
It will do you good, and it will boost dear old Davidson.

MANY MEMBERS OF ’22 ATTEND COMMENCEMENT

As usual, '22 cannot let this issue of the Davidsonian go to press without informing you of the fact that
she was present for Commencement. In the heart of every alumnus there is that desire to drift back to the
old campus and see the changes that have been made. Whether ’22 was prompted by this desire or the desire
to show to the student body that she could do such a thing after facing the world for a year
we cannot say, but we do say that ’22 was present, not in full numbers, but in enough to call
it a class at least. No formal class meeting was held, but we enjoyed being together in an informal way
and talking over our experiences. They were many and varied and naturally so with such an array of professors, students,
coaches, and business men, along with Chef McAlpine. This year, we wish to give another message. There is always room
for improvement. You have seen Davidson go through some great changes and as the old order changeth, giving place to
the new, be warned by the mistakes others have made before you and may you improve the conditions on the
campus this year as much as they have been improved in recent years. We thank the management of the “livest
wire on the Hill” for the privilege of these remarks. This article would not be complete without telling you that
we are behind you 100 percent, and we are for Davidson first, last, and always.

Who protects you against the unexpected, is the reliable insurance agent.

RUS W. E. PRICE, Gen. Agt.
Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Co.
Ocean Accident & Guaranty Corp.
215 Piedmont Building
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

SODA : CIGARS
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

THEATRE TICKETS
Rain Insurance For Every Occasion whether held indoors or outside
Phone or write
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
