Vol. XI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 25, 1923 No. 6

Carolina Concert Club Presents Fine Musical Program Before Large Crowd

Misses Nettie Allison, Christine Smith, and Grace Kohn Render Beautiful Vocal Selections. Miss Nan Gordon Delights Audience With Violin Solos

Playing to a large audience in Shearer Hall last Monday evening, the Carolina Concert Club presented one of the most beautiful musical programs that has ever been given at Davidson. This club, composed of 10 male and three female voices, and a violinist, with Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker as director and accompanist, held in rapt attention for nearly two hours, an audience composed of music-lovers from many miles around.

The first number on the program was the “Bandit Song,” from Ernani by Verdi. This selection was rendered by the 10 men comprising the male personnel of the club, and was full of spirit and fire from beginning to end. As an encore they sang “Music When Soft Voices Die,” by Errick, which, in its soft and dreamy quality, contrasted strongly with the song that preceded it.

Next Miss Nettie Allison sang “Oh, Bird of Love Divine,” by Wood, and delighted everyone with the purity of tone and range of her voice. As an encore Miss Allison sang “A Lesson With a Fan.” This lesson she demonstrated so bewitchingly that the audience called her back for a second encore, for which she sang “Confession.”

The third number on the program consisted of two songs from Verdi's Rigoletto, “Hush in Silence” and “Unto a Lonely Abode.” These two songs were sung by the same group of men that gave the first selection and proved equally pleasing. As the audience would not be satisfied with these two songs, they returned and sang “The Old Road,” by Scott.

Miss Christine Smith then sang Clarke's “Oh, Little Rose of May” in a most pleasing manner. As an encore Miss Smith sang “A Sapphic Ode,” by Brahms.

The next selection, and perhaps to some the most pleasing of the program, was the “Misereri” from Il Trovatore. Miss Kohn sang the soprano, the true and broken-hearted sweetheart, with Mr. Gibson as the imprisoned lover. The rest of the men of the club composed a chanting choir of priests and formed with their deep and ceaseless “Te Deum” a dark background.

(Continued on page 2)

Mr. Tom Glasgow Speaks To Y on “Watch Your Step”

Charlotte Business Man Returns to Address Students Again

The entire student body was glad to welcome again to the Hill, Mr. Tom Glasgow, a prominent Charlotte business man, who addressed the Y. M. C. A. at its vesper service Sunday evening. Mr. Glasgow will be remembered by the upper classmen for his forceful talk on A Life of Purpose which he delivered before the “Y” last spring. Although a graduate of Washington and Lee, Mr. Glasgow has always been a friend of Davidson, and as a friend he was asked to come before the “Y.”

“Let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall,” was the text of the evening. The subject was Watch Your Step. “Many are here,” said the speaker, “for the first time. This is the first time you have been thrown on your own resources. Heretofore you have had others to decide questions for you. But now it is up to you to decide between right and wrong. The upper classmen are even freer in their judgment for themselves, since they have no restrictions placed on them as do the first year men.

“New ideals, new opportunities, are open to you as individuals that never were yours before. Now is the time, in the formative period of your life, to watch your step.” Here the speaker gave a striking illustration of a chain that broke in what was thought to be its strongest link, of a wreck that occurred when the best engineer was at the throttle, of a bank robbery that was committed by the most trusted employee, and of

(Continued on page 6)

Dr. Ruskin, Explorer Speaks at Gym Tomorrow

Pictures of Arctic Regions and Topics to be Shown

Mr. John C. Bailey, Jr., of the Davidson High School, has made arrangements with Dr. John W. Ruskin to appear at the College Gymnasium, Friday night, October 26th, with his still and motion pictures of Wild Animal Life, Strange Natives and Unusual Places of the World.

Doctor Ruskin, as assistant surgeon and official photographer, spent 18 years traveling the little-known and out-of-the-way places of the world. During these expeditions into the Arctic regions; the wilds of the Buzi River, Portuguese East Africa; the South Sea Islands and the Jungles of Borneo, he secured wonderful pictures, showing wild life in their natural haunts. They have been described by known naturalists as a “Living Book of Natural History.”

In northern Greenland Doctor Ruskin lived with Mr. Harry Whitney for three years without civilized food. His scenes of the frigid zone are particularly interesting. In the Wilds of Borneo, Dr. Frank P. Thompson, with Dr. Edwin Brooke, and Doctor Ruskin, were successful in securing some remarkable pictures of the orangutan and others of the monkey tribe, showing them climbing trees and traveling through the dense forests. In the South Sea Islands an interesting week was spent with the Sultan of Zulu on the Island of Jolo. In crossing the Pacific in their 38-foot launch the party was caught in a typhoon and thrown over onto Sarapon Island, where they were arrested by a British North Borneo Company, their vessel replenished.

(Continued on page 5)

Honor Store Opens Its Doors To Student Body

New Phase of the Honor System Inaugurated on October 15th

STORE LOCATED IN WATTS

C. A. Young Gradually Increases Stock on Shelves

The Davidson College Honor Store, run by students and for the benefit of students, opened for business in the basement of Watts dormitory, on Monday, October 15th. C. A. Young, ‘24, is the manager of the store, and he has high hopes for its success because of his confidence in the backing it will receive from the student body.

The feature is found in the honor system of paying for what is bought. There is absolutely no place for credit in the scheme. It is similar to the famous Piggly Wiggly stores in that you get what you want from the stocked shelves, but it is different in the paying method. In the Honor Store each purchaser takes what articles he wants and makes his own change from an open cash box. At the end of the day this is emptied by the manager and the day's trade settled up.

This store, begun in a small way and at present housed in a small room, is an undertaking that has long been planned by those who have seen its success at other colleges. A favorable outcome here will put this student body to the front along with the few other institutions where such stores are in operation.

In this store will be found oranges and apples, all kinds of candies and smokes, also peanuts, chewing gum, and many different varieties of sandwiches. The manager states that later on milk and chocolate milk will be available for sale and other supplies will be increased with the success of the store. A small beginning was necessitated due to insufficient capital but as sales increase a more up-to-date supply of articles will be available.

The profits from the store will be used to further some student body affair, though this has not yet been definitely decided upon as far as the exact object is concerned. The purpose of the store is to provide the students with such articles as they may need at the lowest possible price consistent with quality. The convenience of the location is another point to be noted. So far it has received patronage to warrant its future enlargement. It is only up to the student body

(Continued on page 2)

Campus Leaders Selected by Omicron Delta Kappa

Heston, Galloway, Boushee and Bradford Accorded Signal Honor

During the past week Omicron Delta Kappa, National Honorary Fraternity, has extended invitations to four men in the Senior class, W. Z. Bradford, I. E. Boushee, W. M. Heston and W. F. Galloway. Each year the chapter of O. D. K. located at Davidson College selects and initiates a small number of men from the senior class asClasses. These forms of campus activity, the collegiate leaders are practically in every endeavor. Yet, the men composing the organization are not celebrated solely because they are proficient along one line of work but rather because they have directed their efforts into several fields of campus activity while in college. In the first three years, they must prove their merit; in their final year, each of the four selected has shown himself a leader in one particular branch of campus activity but also a well-rounded Davidson man.

Bradford proved proficient in literary work during his Sophomore year, serving first as a reporter. He worked up until he headed the press bureau and during the past year made a name for that department in the two Carolinas. His record in literary society work has practically a similar story of a rise from a secretaryship to the presidency.

Lex Kluttz Brings First-Hand Information From The Scene of Japan’s Disastrous Quake
Davidson Alumnus Credits Escape to Sprinting Ability Developed on Wildcat Cinder-path. Was Returning From Three-Year Stay in India and Asia Minor After Study of Near East Relief Work There

The students of Davidson and their friends were given a vivid description of Japan's recent earthquake and a thrilling account of a narrow escape from death in a falling building when Mr. Lex Wm. Kluttz gave an account of his experience there at the time of the quake in a lecture delivered in Shearer Hall on Wednesday night, October 7. Mr. Kluttz, a graduate of Davidson of the class of ‘15, took a very active part in athletics while in college. At the beginning of the war, he enlisted in the U.S. Army and served in both the A.E.F. and the Army of Occupation. Soon after the war, he went to the Holy Land to study the country of the Bible and to see the work being done by the Near East Relief.

After teaching three years at the American University of Beirut, Syria, he continued his travels eastward to Japan, preparatory to sailing for the United States. The meeting opened with Ted Jones, president of the Y.M.C.A. At the request of Mr. Kluttz, the hymn “Onward Christian Soldiers” was sung, and Doctor Richards led the house in prayer. Professor Currie introduced the speaker with a very appropriate anecdote applying to his propensity for travel. Mr. Kluttz began his talk by showing the audience the customary manner of greeting in Japan and asking that they return it. He said there were two important observations that he had made in his travels. His first one was that the antagonistic attitude of Japan toward the United States was changing to one of friendship, indirectly because of the increasing influence of Christianity in Japan and directly because of the invaluable aid America rendered to the Japanese in the terrible conditions resulting from the earthquake. The second was that what the world needs today is the spirit of Christian brotherhood. After elaborating on the last thought a little further, he proceeded to show and explain a number of stereopticon pictures of the effects of the quake at Tokyo and Yokohama. These slides had been made from pictures taken by himself a short while after the quake started.

While Mr. Kluttz was explaining the pictures, he gave a dramatic account of his escape from the clutches of the quake. His description of his experience was in part as follows:

“I had just entered the ground floor of a two-story wooden building in Yokohama and was asking in the universal sign language if my laundry was ready to be delivered. That sign sentence was never completed. Suddenly my legs and body began to shake most violently as though they would fall to pieces. My first reaction was that I had been clubbed at the base of my brain and was going nutty. At the same instant, I heard the shaking, rattling, and crashing of that inn, and at the same time, a rumbling and tumbling and thundering without. I turned with the speed of lightning. The building was caving in and at the same time crashing toward the street.”

(Continued on page 6)

Henry Garrity’s Wake Forest eleven defeated the Wildcats 6-0 at Wearn Field before a crowd of fully forty-five hundred fans. Wildcats Bow To Wake Forest Eleven In Ragged Contest on Wearn Field, 6-0 Line and Races Forty-Eight Yards For Baptist Touchdown. Heavy Wake Forest Forwards Outrush the Thin Red Line

Though Bill Roper’s Tigers were heavily trounced by Notre Dame last week, the Princeton system won a brilliant victory the same afternoon when the Wildcats were defeated 6-0. Murray Greason, the Baptists’ speedy halfback, shattered the Wildcats’ dream of the State Championship into a thousand fragments when, on a reverse tackle play, he broke through the thin Red line, stiff-armed the secondary defense, dodged the safety man, and raced 48 yards for the sole counter of the game. Pagano failed on the extra point, the ball bouncing back from the crossbar. Coach Garrity, of All-American fame, had instilled into his players the old Princeton system of following the ball, and this proved the winning margin for the Old Gold and Black warriors.

On three occasions when a Wildcat fumbled, the Baptist players pounced on the pigskin like ball-hawks and returned it for substantial gains, with wonderful tackling saving the Red and Black goal line from violation. The Baptists followed the other Princeton tradition of elusive ball plays; the Wildcats’ educated toe proved a miserable failure. The brilliant Wake Forest quarter, Gig Shepherd, outpunted Rackley three to two, but the Wildcats had the edge in all other departments of the game. The Wake Forest eleven had the lighter team, but they had a varied repertoire of plays; they tore through the line on reverse plays, skirted the ends, and used the aerial route for substantial gains. But once the last barrier had been crossed, the Old Gold and Black, with their unceasing battle cry of “Let's make another touchdown for Coach Garrity,” were unable to pierce the Wildcat defense.

(Continued on page 5)

Prominent Men on Campus Endorse New Honor Store
Fifteen Men Interviewed as to Wisdom of Installing Store

The Honor Store, recently installed in the basement of New Watts, has been the impetus of a great deal of favorable comment. It is recognized as a concrete test of the honor system of Davidson, and its future can mean credit or discredit to the student body. Some of the leaders of the campus have been interviewed, and their various comments follow:

A.M. Hillhouse: “The Honor Store is a great convenience to the student body. In the profits that will accrue from its sales, likewise, there will be a source of help to the student body. Most of all, here is a real test of what our students are made of, a real test of the whole honor system that so much is heard about whenever Davidson College is mentioned.”

Faison: “The Davidson honor system has up till now been heard of only in connection with the conditions under which exams are taken. The depth of this honor system will now be known in the success or failure of the honor store. In its success, there will be shown plainly the kind of men who make up the student body. It will plainly indicate the kind of men who come to Davidson and also the kind of men who are made at Davidson.”

W. S. Shepherd: “There is no reason in the world why there should not be a successful honor store. If other colleges have such a store, then Davidson should be able to do the same. In the honor store, we will have a tangible proof of our honor system.”

(Continued on page 4)