FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., DECEMBER 6, 1923

No. 12

Author of Many Religious Works Gives Series of Simple Talks to Students

S. D. Gordon Gives Series of Lectures to College Y. M. C. A.

Power, the Subject of Monday Night Address

S. D. Gordon, author, lecturer, traveler, continued his series of “simple talks,” as he terms them, Monday night before the Y. M. C. A. with a short but adept analysis of the change in a man resulting from the touch of Jesus. Using the incident of Jesus and the woman at the well, as found in the fourth chapter of John, he applied the outcome of the touch and power of the Master there to present-day men and women.

“Before every great nation-wide change there has come a change in some person's life. When a man is changed he goes out to reach others.” Mr. Gordon continued with the example of D. L. Moody and John R. Mott, both of whom owed a life of great usefulness to some individual who had taken a direct interest in them, and said he, “Christ is looking today for the man who will allow Him to work divine will in his life.”

The speaker appealed to present-day life to realize that in the life of its women was found a true index to the nature of our civilization. The woman of Sychar saw herself as she really was and immediately turned to bring her friends to Jesus. “Thus,” he continued, “the result of change in a woman's life is always fruitful to a marked degree.” This woman saw the woman God knows. In every man there are found four separate and distinct men: the first man is the man the crowd knows; the second is the one our intimate friends know; the third is ourself as we personally see it. But the important part is the man God knows. No power comes till this man is known and faced and put in the open for good.

“I am compelled to believe that every person has in his life a plank that needs lifting. It must be jacked up for good.” After the real knowing of one’s self, Dr. Gordon pointed out the way to follow: God must be first known before a man may help his fellow men with their loads. Sacrifice holds a very real place in the scheme of all worthwhile things, he asserted, and no man can go through life with Jesus without meeting with circumstances.

Dramatic Club Presents Three Types of Plays

Tragi-Comedy, Tragedy, and Musical Fantasy Delight Large Audience

PLAYS WELL RECEIVED

Out o’ Goodness; The Cretin, and Why Pierrot Are Presented by College Dramatists

The Dramatic Club rendered a program of three one-act plays in Shearer Hall Saturday night. Liston Elkins, W. F. Galloway, and Prof. I. J. Erwin were the authors of the plays, which were given as a part of the Pan-Hellenic Week festivities.

The first play of the evening, Out O’ Goodness, from the pen of Liston Elkins. This play, a tragi-comedy, was a story in which the less-guilty of two criminals was imprisoned, while the crook escaped. W. H. Fitts and M. C. Stith were the central characters in the play. S. P. Bryant and H. Austin appeared as the strong arm of the law.

W. F. Galloway was the author of The Cretin, a story of the life among a semi-civilized race of men. Galloway appeared in the role of Dr. Corrugio, the scientist, who was the principal character of the play. The story was of a scientist’s experiments with the Cretins, a race of idiots, in his endeavor to raise them to a higher state of civilization. The son of the monomaniac scientist, Ferdinand, who had been brought to a higher state of life through Dr. Corrugio’s experiments with him, had married the daughter of Dr. Corrugio while still under treatment. The Cretins, becoming suspicious of the scientist's attitude toward them, rushed into his home and killed Dr. Corrugio. Ferdinand, who could no longer receive the needed treatments, was doomed to return to his former state as a Cretin. The curtain is lowered on the scene in which Otto, Dr. Corrugio’s assistant, is left alone.

Scholastic Fraternity Initiates Men Friday

Doctor Metcalf Will Speak at Public Ceremonies of Initiation.

The fall initiation of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson College will take place on the seventh of December. Dr. John Calvin Metcalf will make the literary address. At this initiation, there will be twelve men taken in, four from the class of '24 and eight alumni. The men now in college to be taken in are D. B. Walthall, J. I. Smith, W. M. Cox, and A. M. Hillhouse.

The addresses given at initiations rank at the top of all literary addresses. Davidson students recall with the greatest of pleasure the address that Dr. Henry Louis Smith delivered here last year. Such occasions as these are the ones that live long in the memories of students after they have left school. The man who is to speak this time is one to whom Davidson men, both those here now and alumni, look forward to hearing. Dr. Metcalf is the Edgar Allen Poe Professor of English at the University of Virginia. He is a recognized authority along all literary lines, not only in the South but all over the country. No professor at this famous old university is more outstanding in this particular field. Davidson is exceedingly fortunate in securing him for Friday night.

BID DAY

Owing to a recent ruling of the faculty, Bid Day, which formerly came after mid-term examinations, has been moved up between December 1st and 15th. The Pan-Hellenic Council has appointed December 15th as Bid Day, on which all fraternities will pledge new men.

S. D. Gordon Addresses Vesper Services Sunday

Noted Religious Writer and Lecturer Talks of Temptations

Dr. S. D. Gordon, of New York, nationally known lecturer and author of books and tracts on religious themes, was the speaker at the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service Sunday evening. This service was the first of three meetings in which Mr. Gordon addressed the students. Temptation was the theme treated by Gordon at this service. References to temptation in scripture, including Christ's temptations by the devil, were taken as the lesson for the evening.

The speaker began with a story that contained a vivid account of a man's temptations as related to him on board a ship en route to America after his recent work in the Orient. “Every man in the North, South, East, and West,” said Mr. Gordon, “is tempted to do what he ought not to do, and to leave undone what he ought to do. Christ Himself was tempted. Wherever there is life, there is temptation. It comes with life. No one can be blamed for having temptations, but for yielding to the temptations. The devil never builds roads; he builds traps.”to temptations, they allow themselves to be run. Others have some conscience left, but after they give in to the first temptations, they lose whatever of conscience they have left. Harm comes in giving in to those temptations. Men give over by the devil as a dead dog, soon lose their way.

“To some, temptations come as rushing lions and can be easily seen, but not easily conquered. To others, temptations sneak, according to the (Continued on page 2)

‘Temptations gain power with each story.

Prospects for Good Quint Are Bright; Six Letter Men Form Nucleus for Team

Glee Club Embarks On Southern Concert Tour
Fine Vocal and Instrumental Music Rendered by Wildcat Company

RECEPTION IN ATLANTA
Road Trip Closes with Gastonia Performance Monday Night

So far, under the leadership of Ted Jones, the Glee Club, which has had an excellent season, left on its Southern trip. December 4th, given in Spartanburg, S. C., Anderson, S.C., Gainesville, Ga., Rome, Ga., Decatur, Ga., and Gastonia, N.C. It was originally intended to go to Greenville, S.C. but owing to a conflict of dates it was decided to go to Anderson instead. This is the first trip of any length ever undertaken by a Davidson Glee Club and the outlook is indeed excellent as it begins the trip.

Entertainment has been provided at all places. While in Atlanta, the Glee Club will sing over the Atlanta Journal’s radio station, the largest radio broadcast in the South. The Davidson Alumni Association of Atlanta also plans to give the Club a luncheon. Still another feature of the Atlanta trip will be a reception given in honor of the Glee Club. The members of the Club have worked hard and presented a very varied repertoire. The choruses were directed by Mrs. Coral H. Baker of Charlotte and too much credit cannot be given her for creating so much harmony out of such material as she had. The program, which is much the same as that given in Shearer Hall, appears below:

PART ONE
1. Prelude "We Love Us” Mrs. Baker Glee Club
2. Winter Song Bullard
3. The Chilled Heart J. R. Barnes Glee Club
4. The Toreador Bizet W. T. Jones
5. The Sentry Haskins

(Continued on page 2)

NORTH CAROLINA COLLEGIATE PRESS ASSOCIATION TO PUBLISH COLLEGIATE ANTHOLOGY OF NORTH CAROLINA SHORT STORIES

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will publish during the 1923-24 session an Anthology of Short Stories written by collegians in the institutions of the State. A fifty dollar ($50.00) prize is offered to the writer of the best short story. The ten or twelve best will be published in the anthology.

The requirements governing the submission of the stories are as follows:
1. Any bona fide member of a North Carolina college may submit a short story.
2. Any number of stories may be submitted by the same author.
3. All stories fulfilling the above conditions, which have been written during the past two years, are acceptable, irrespective of whether they have been previously published.
4. It is suggested that the length of each story shall not exceed 6,000 words.
5. Two typewritten copies of each story must be submitted.
6. A short personal sketch (100 words) of the author must be turned in, in a sealed envelope.
7. All stories must be turned in before December 15th, to either the editor of the respective magazine, and in colleges where no magazine is published, to the editor of the college publication.
8. The best stories will be selected for publication by a committee of literary educators in the state.
9. The fifty dollars ($50.00) prize for the best story will be awarded on the decision of the judges selected outside of the state.

The N. C. C. P. A. recognizes the cry made in the interest of literary endeavor throughout the state, and their publication of a short story anthology is an effort to stimulate interest in literary production. The eyes of the entire United States are turned toward North Carolina, the state which is setting the pace in the educational work of the nation, and the short story anthology will be reviewed with interest by all the critics of education.

Red and Black Followers Look for Banner Year In Cage

NAPPY DAVIS LEADS TEAM
Practice Starts off with Rush—Large Squad Out

Football has taken a seat in the background of Davidson sports; its disappointments are forgotten before the auspicious advent of basketball. Already a schedule of intense practice has been initiated by Coach Younger, Wednesday, the 5th. Several changes in the customary routine will be noted. Instead of night practice, hours are arranged from 4:00-5:00 p.m. Another radical innovation will be a regular training table for the squad which will begin immediately after Christmas. However, strict training will be postponed until January.

In selecting the squad, a policy of rapid, rigorous elimination is planned. By Christmas, the squad will be cut to fifteen men, and immediately after the holidays, it will be cut to ten men. Who stands the best chance for varsity berths is the question of primary consideration. Certainly, no one but the coaches knows yet, although both have kept a close eye on class games, and thereby have a fairly accurate knowledge of individual prospects. Outside the men on last year’s squad, numerous aspirants have played brilliantly in one game and mediocrely in the next.

Among the letter men of last year’s squad are several promising men. Although the positions of Mauze, at center, and Crawford, at guard, will not be easily filled, there are aspiring men for both places. Among the letter men are such old reliables as Davis, Laird, Beall, McConnell, Mallory, Staley, Jones, and Sappenfield. Elkins, undoubtedly the individual star of class basketball, looks especially good. Sappenfield has been occupied with football. The material looks good for a formidable team, but the Wildcats’ strongest bet for high honor is their coaching staff. Head Coach Younger made a brilliant record at V. P. I.

(Continued on page 4)

Fraternities Give House Parties Over Week End
Pan-Hellenic Week Enjoyable Social Occasion—Many Visitors on Hill

Pan-Hellenic Week, which this year ushered in on November 30th, is taking the place of Senior Speaking as a social event. Pan-Hellenic Week opened Friday night and closed Monday night. All of the fraternities gave house parties lasting over the weekend. The basketball game and a moving picture show were scheduled for Saturday night. The game, however, was postponed and the picture show failed to show up. On Saturday night there were movies at the Gym, as well as three one-act plays presented by the Junior-Senior Dramatic Club. They were: “Out of Goodness,” by Liston Elkins; “The Cre- tins,” by W. F. Gallaway, Jr.; and “Why Pierrot,” written by Professor.

Although there were not quite as many girls on the Hill as were expected, Pan-Hellenic week was a decided success and will probably become an annual event as was Junior Speaking. Since Senior Speaking has been done away with, the week end following Thanksgiving presented the best opportunity for this affair. At this time too the Dramatic Club...

(Continued on page 2)