DAVIDSON—$90,000.00 IMPROVEMENT TOWN

The Davidson Observer Today—1 Page

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 19, 1923

RETURNING MEN MAP OUT COURSES FOR NEXT YEAR

In order to facilitate registration of old men next year, and to enable those here to plan their courses carefully,
the members of the three classes who are returning next year have been required to map out the courses they
intend to take and sign up with the registrar during the past few weeks. It will be possible to change
these courses at any time before school closes. Next year, however, it will be necessary to petition the faculty to
change any ticket. The main object of this move is to allow the students to really consider before taking a
course, and to allow them to talk with men already successful in the line of work into which they intend
to go. Dr. T. W. Lingle, chairman of the committee on graduation, has been rushing the work to a close.
Prof. E. J. Erwin is still planning with the Juniors, while Doctor Porter has registered almost all of the Sophomores.
All new men coming in next year will be registered as usual, but with the three upper classes out of
the way, college should be on a working basis in one or two days after the opening of the fall
term.

T. L. B. Finn—Will you give me something for my head?
Druggist—I wouldn't take it as a gift.

FACT AND FICTION ABOUT EVOLUTION
By R. L. Foster

The cardinal arguments of evolutionists answered briefly and to the point.
On sale at Goodrum’s in Davidson or Strafford Co., Publishers, Boston, Massachusetts.
PRICE $1.00
Get Your Copy Now.

PICTORIAL REVIEW
McCALL’S MAGAZINE
DELINEATOR
AMERICAN BOY
THE YOUTH’S COMPANION
ST. NICHOLAS
LITTLE FOLKS MAGAZINE

VICTORIA WITHERS

R. O. T. C. UNIT INSPECTED BY GENERAL D. C. SHANKS

General D. C. Shanks, commander of the Fourth Corps Area of the U. S. Army, made a formal inspection of
the R. O. T. C. unit of Davidson College on April 11th. The General arrived on the 9:18 train Wednesday
morning and was formally met by the faculty military committee. His inspection began first with the armory, then the range,
outdoor range, gallery, sandtable rooms, and maneuver grounds. He was well pleased with all the places he inspected and especially
with the gallery. General Shanks stressed the outdoor range as one of the most important phases of the work. At
9:50 A. M. the battalion formed and gave an excellent review. The companies executed all movements well and maintained excellent
straight lines throughout the review. At the close of the review, the General addressed the battalion with a short talk
concerning the cooperation of the army in training the citizen soldier. He also brought out the facts that men of
these days have great opportunities and that they should, in some measure, be prepared at all times for emergencies. Following
the review and inspection, the General was given a reception by the faculty military committee and officers, at which time
he met the entire faculty and their families and all cadet officers. From the General’s own statement, he said he
was well pleased with the efficiency and spirit of the students, and from his general impression, he felt that all
the cadet officers showed good spirit and interest in their work. On leaving, General Shanks expressed the sincere hope of
coming to Davidson again during his army life. In the history of Davidson College, General Shanks is the fourth general
to be associated with the College, the first three being Generals Davidson, Stonewall Jackson, and Hill. General Shanks is a
native of Georgia and one of the oldest ranking generals in the army. Some time ago he requested that two
years before he was to retire from active service that he be stationed in the South for duty. As it
is now about one year from the time that he retires, he has been placed in his native state, at
Fort McPherson, in the fourth corps area.

Jack Holt Appears In Indian Picture

On account of the unpopular sentiment created by Charlotte newspapers against the picture, “Bella Donna” featuring Pola Negri, the faculty
censored its run here and Jack Holt in “The Tiger's Claw” was presented instead. Jack Holt as Jack Sandell, showed
his usual versatility in adapting himself to the many different scenes of the play. The eternal triangle, as usual, was
admirably portrayed in the persons of Holt as Jack Sandell, a young civil engineer, Aileen Pringle as Chameli Brentwood, a
half-caste girl, and Eva Novak as Harriet Halehurst, a former fiancée of Sandell.

“All right, I'll take it, and give me some Brunswick needles, too.”

For SHOE REPAIRING
See BLACK & KIMZY, 10 North Barracks
Get a MUNSON Shoe for Drill
Sport Shoes on display every Wednesday at the Commissary.
MILLS SHOE Co.
Statesville, N. C.

“Taste the Difference”
Electrik Maid BREAD
PIES---CAKES---BUNS
Electrik Maid Bake Shop
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

CO-OPERATIVE SPIRIT DISPLAYED BY SOPHS

At a meeting of the Sophomore Class on Monday, March 26, it was unanimously decided that the class would inaugurate
the custom of having some member of the class give a talk at a bi-weekly meeting of the class. This
meeting will be held every other Monday morning. Such subjects as College Spirit, Class Spirit, Thought and Progress, will be
discussed by the different members of the class. The purpose of these meetings is to secure a finer cooperation in
the Sophomore Class, to instill into each member a greater love for Davidson, and to maintain, uphold and create traditions
of which Davidson is proud. The first of these talks was given on Monday morning, April 9th, by J. A.
Lake, vice-president of the class. His talk embraced largely the problems which face the Sophomore Class. He spoke in a
straight-from-the-shoulder manner, and impressed on all the responsibilities which rest on every member. He stated that what the class does
must not be a one-man, or few-men affair, but must be backed by every man, in order to be successful.

Kannapolite Invasion Breaks Davidson Peace

In the near past, the metropolis of Davidson was aroused from its spring fever by the sudden invasion into its
exclusive precincts of a nomad troop of Kannapolites. So quickly did the tribe descend upon the town, in their gaily
decorated horseless chariots, that before it was realized they had slipped by the Board of Censors, who were having their
mid-day repast at Barnes’ Broadway Buffet, and had penetrated to the very heart of the town—the Post Office Square. After
they had dismounted from their aforesaid means of locomotion, several industrious members of the tribe began to throw in every
direction sheets of paper covered with rows of strange hieroglyphics. But these curious papers were only the bait to draw
the innocent Davidsonians into the invaders’ clutches. It seems that in the village of Kannapolis they are ruled by the
crafty King Pep, son of that renowned monarch, Swelledhead I. This ruler, having conquered the neighboring village of Mooresville in
a terrific battle inwhich he used the stratagem of suffocating to attain the highest and do the most for the
enemy with the deadly fumes of hot air, Davidson. Decided that he must find some means of disposing of a
large surplus quantity of this obnoxious weapon. Woe to Davidson the day that one of the king’s zealous followers suggested
that they could make a profitable raid on its defenseless inhabitants and forcibly unload the useless product there. Little did
the crowd that gathered around the Kannapolites suspect what suffering they were to endure. For, no sooner had the nomads
distributed the mysterious handbills, than twelve big-chested men took from their chariots curious keyed instruments of wood and brass, with
which they began to spread abroad, according to the directions which they held in front of them, the harsh “popular
airs.” Those of the assembled crowd who survived this barrage of noise and hot air were rejoicing greatly when suddenly
a Kannapolite with a carrot top stepped forth and began to “shoot.” Many were the brave men of Davidson who
fell at this second onslaught. But the Kannapolites’ supply of “airs” was not exhausted yet and soon the death-dealing instruments
were again brought into play and the last of the Davidsonians succumbed before the invaders. The Kannapolites, seeing the success
of their attack, jumped in their war chariots and when last seen, were winding their tortuous way into the yet
unconquered and unknown wilds of Cornelius.

Among the interesting facts connected with the disease is that of the various and sundry designs and styles in glasses
which accompany it. These styles run all the way from common ordinary “specs” to nose glasses and a double monocle
effect. Due to the regulation which states that a student so afflicted is excused from classes for some time an
immediate recovery is not expected.

State Engineers Outclassed Red and Black Cinder Men.

The race for second place in the two mile was a pretty struggle between Selser and Stewart. The last lap
or so saw Selser right on the heels of the State man, but on the last round he didn’t have
quite the strength to pull past him, and lost by a couple of yards. Gracey and Streibich were the high
point scorers for the Red and Black, registering eight points each. The javelin throw was the big event of the
day. Crater of State heaved it 159 feet 9 inches for a new state record and Red McCombs tossed the
old javelin four feet beyond the old mark, but missed Crater’s record by a little less than a foot. Red
had a few more tosses but he couldn’t quite reach the mark his opponent had set a few minutes before.

In the mile the Wildcats won a well-deserved victory when “Spec” McConnell, running the prettiest race of the year, passed
Scott on the last lap and beat him down the straight-away. The time of four minutes and 53 seconds was
excellent for the soggy track and the drizzle that chilled the runners. Calhoun continued his good work with another tie
in the high jump, and Davidson won the pole vault when Sattenfield got disgusted and quit when the rod was
at only eight feet; but the mile, the high jump, and the pole vault tell the whole tale of the
Wildcat victories. The Red and Black runners fought hard but State managed to come out on top in the other
eleven events. Byrum was the individual star of the meet and carried off the honors in the 100, 220, and
440. Crater won both the javelin and the broad jump, and Clarke took the decision in the high and low
hurdles. Gracey got off to a bad start in the high hurdles and was steadily gaining on Clarke on the
last couple of hurdles. One or two more and the result might have been different. Streibich seemed to have some
trouble getting his step.

SUMMARY
100 yard dash—Byrum, State; Hendrix, Davidson. Time 10 1-10 seconds.
220 yard dash—Byrum, State; Hendrix, Davidson. Time 23 1-5 seconds.
440 yard dash—Byrum, State; Morris, State; Hendrix, Davidson. Time 54 3-5 seconds.
Half mile run—Johnson, State; Gallaway, Davidson; Haywood, State. Time 2 minutes 15 seconds.
One mile run—McConnell, Davidson; Scott, State; Stewart, State. Time 4 minutes 53 seconds.
Two mile run—Crockford, State; Stewart, State; Selser, Davidson. Time 10 minutes 53 3-5 seconds.
Shot put—Hamrick, State; Dixon, State; Lindarmood, Davidson. Distance 38 feet 7½ inches.
Pole Vault—Gracey, Davidson; Streibich, Davidson, tied for first; Satterfield, State. Height 8 feet.
Discus—Hamrick, State; Dixon, State; Lindarmood, Davidson. Distance 115 feet 6¼ inches.
Javelin—Crater, State; McCombs, Davidson; Tilson, State. Distance 159 feet 9 inches. New State record.
High jump—Calhoun, Davidson; Satterfield, State, tied for first place; Gracey, Davidson. Height 5 feet 8 inches.
Broad jump—Crater, State; Streibich, Davidson; Poole, State. Distance 20 feet 4 inches.
Low Hurdles—Clarke, State; Satterfield, State; Mallory, Davidson. Time 27 9-10 seconds.
High Hurdles—Clarke, State; Gracey, Davidson; Streibich, Davidson. Time 17 2-5 seconds.

Don’t worry over what’s printed in this paper. Just thank your stars that some things were not printed which could
have been.

You can’t tell about these girls. Sometimes they seem wise. They use their ears to hear everything; they use their
eyes to see everything; but then they go and use their tongues to tell everything.

VICTROLAS
New VICTOR RECORDS Every Two Weeks
EVERYTHING IN FURNITURE
People’s Home Furnishing Co.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

AT THE GYM
SATURDAY, APRIL 28
Present “ROBIN HOOD” with Douglas Fairbanks
An Allan Dwan Production
Two Shows, 7 and 9 O'clock
