THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

ALUMNI NEWS

Pyengyang, Chosen, Korea, Nov. 15, 1923.

Dear Davidson Boys:

It has not been the lack of desire to write that has kept me silent thus long, but a grand
rush at getting into a new house and many other duties that have come one on top of the other.
I suppose that is a usual excuse of mine together with members of my tribe in general, but this fall
we have seemed to be going at a faster pace than ever, and there has really been a great deal
that has taken time.

First, I would say what you all know, we have a new house, and while we are still pilgrims here
on this world, still we are beginning to feel more settled than we ever have before, for it is a
splendid thing to have a home of your own. And we have a nice, comfortable house, and have at last
gotten fairly well settled in the same. We feel as though we were in a palace, and we do have
a great many conveniences—electric lights and running water, for we are in the city—so as for the material side of
our lives we are indeed well off. We have lived in borrowed houses and had to move so much that
all this does not seem real to us yet, and in our dreams we go off moving again, but gradually
we hope to get used to the feeling that we don’t have to vacate quarters as soon as the proper
owners of the house come back from furlough. The contractor who built our house gave us an extra good piece
of work, for he has not built here before, and he wanted to show what he could do as an
advertisement to get further work at Pyengyang.

Then, too, this fall I have had a heavier schedule at the college, having had to take on some extra
hours that were left vacant by the resignation of Mr. Oak, one of our Korean teachers. I have enjoyed the
work at the school, but I have gotten behind with other things in consequence, and now only am I beginning
to get fairly well caught up. Since September, Mr. Hamilton and I have had joint charge of a little chapel
in a nearby heathen village, and this work has been a great blessing to us both, but at the same
time it has given us extra hours. I have charge of two Sunday Schools every Sabbath morning at this chapel,
and am also responsible for the Sunday night service, while Mr. Hamilton takes charge of the other work, and is
pastor in charge, as I am not an ordained man, as you all know. I have had to teach the
preparatory class for the teachers in the children’s Sunday School, and this takes some time for preparation. Hope to get
Koreans to help more, and gradually they will take over some of the work, for they can do many things
better than the foreigner, but we shall continue to have charge. Many of you have been so kind in the
past as to send picture cards and rolls that have been used at home; any gifts of this kind will
be greatly appreciated and used to the best advantage. We plan to hold special services at this little chapel the
last of December or the 1st of January next, so about the time you get this letter we shall doubtless
begin. Remember these meetings in your prayers, and especially remember the leaders of them.

The little village is along the side of one of our rivers, and the people are for the most part
heathen yet. They are very poor and ignorant, and many of them lost all they had in the terrible floods
we had here last summer. Pray that very many of them may come to Christ at this time. They show
much interest and all we do is well received, but their minds are still darkened. May God give us many
souls in this place!

I don't know that I have mentioned the floods in any of my letters to all of you. The 1st
of August we had the worst rains ever known in the history of Korea, and tidal waves accompanied the flood,
so that all the western coast was affected, and around in this region all places near rivers. Pyengyang city itself
was largely under water, and both Koreans and Japanese had to vacate and live in the hills. Of course, the
calamity that overtook Japan proper was so much greater than anything we had here that we cannot feel but grateful,
but still there was and is a great deal of suffering right around us on account of the floods. I
need not mention the Japanese earthquake as you have all seen full accounts of that in the papers. Many of
our missionaries were in Japan at the time, but they were all wonderfully preserved, even though in places of the
greatest danger, and indeed we know of only one missionary who lost her life at this time. God certainly does
protect His people, and I could tell you much of the ways in which He showed His providence and care
for those who trusted Him, but I must not take the time to do this now.

We have just closed a most blessed week of meetings held by Dr. Beiderwolf and party, who are on their
way to China, the Philippines, and Australia, but who were able to give about three weeks to Korea. They had
meetings in Japan, and then came to Taiku, Kwangju, Seoul, and lastly here to Pyengyang. The meetings elsewhere were most
successful in every way, and here in this city alone more than a thousand came forward to give themselves to
Christ. Dr. Beiderwolf gave some of the strongest sermons many of us have ever heard and he was indeed used
of God to stir the minds of these people, both those in the church already and new believers. Mr. Homer
Rodeheaver, known so well to all of you as the Billy Sunday choir leader, and Miss Saxe, also of the
Sunday party, were with Dr. Beiderwolf, as well as Miss Hay and Dr. Rodeheaver, Mr. Rodeheaver’s brother. All were fine,
and Mr. Rodeheaver certainly captivated the Koreans with his singing and trombone playing as well as with his most spiritual
messages. He rendered many of his own songs in Korean, and his pronunciation was so perfect that all were amazed.
He plans to have the songs reproduced in Korean on phonograph records, and these will be a great help to
us in our work here. While in Japan he made some records for the Japanese Phonograph Company, so his songs
will be out in Japanese soon, and also in other languages of the East. We were all helped by these
meetings and feel inspired to go on to better work. We certainly praise God for sending Dr. Beiderwolf and these
workers to us at this time.

One or two personal matters I will mention, and then I must close. The children’s eyes are so much better
that the doctor has no fears now and we have been out of quarantine for quite a while. Jean goes
to school daily, and Frances attended Korean kindergarten till she got too bad a cold to go longer, but she
hopes to start again soon. We have kept well as a whole, but always have colds to some extent, and
my wife has had to take two trips to the dentist—once to Kunsan, and then once to Kwangju, as the
dentist moved—since about September 1st. The weather has turned cold now after a very mild fall, and we are glad
that we are settled in our new home before the winter is on us. We assure you that we remember
you all there. Write to us when you can, and all of you, for this letter goes to all.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S. C.

EDUCATION MAKES THE WORLD A BETTER PLACE TO LIVE IN---SO DOES LIFE INSURANCE
SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mar.time to write each one of you personally, and want to assure you that any letters
sent me will be answered. May God bless you in your work and make you a blessing in all you
do. To the Davidson boys, I would say just a word. You are remembered there especially, and we are always
most interested in all the news we receive about D. C. How it has grown this year! We receive The
Davidsonian through a friend, though our subscription should be direct. However, from year to year it is hard to keep
up with foreign subscribers, for your force is continually changing there, we know. Your games are followed with much interest,
and though I have seen but the results of one game, that was as it should be, and I can
only say, Hurrah for Old D. C. May God be with you in the work there in the college and
may He call many of you to do His work on the foreign field. With all best wishes for every
one of you, I am, Your fellow worker, W. P. Parker.

LETTERS AWARDED

(Continued from page 1)

Davidson.” He received a “D" and three stars. W. S. Shepherd, better known as Gig, who is at Davidson for
his fifth year, received “D" and three stars. Gig at left halfback has ever been one of Davidson's best bets,
reliable on defensive, quick on offensive, and possessing a toe that has punted the ball out of many dangerous corners.
Gig played in 33 quarters during the last season. The position of left end has been ably filled this year
by C. M. (Nappy) Davis. Nappy is in his Senior year and has been on the Varsity for the last
three years. He played in 37 quarters last season and was found at all times a scrapping Wildcat in every
sense of the word. He received a “D" and two stars. Mason Fields, the center of Davidson's cluster in football
ever since his Sophomore year. At center, he was the pivot about which swung the Davidson offensive and on defensive
he was a great rock in a strong stone wall. He played in 28 quarters and received a “D” and
two stars. A “D" and one star was awarded to Long. Long, at left guard, had played in 28 quarters
during the past season and has proved at all times a mountain of strength in the line of the “Wildcats
machine.” Warren Cox was awarded a “D" and one star. Warren played at center in 21 quarters during the past
season. Although he weighs less than 150, Warren has instilled into muscle and sinew enough typical Wildcat fighting spirit to
more than make up for his lack of weight and to play at all times a splendid game. J. W.
(Doc) DeArmon was awarded a “D" and one star. “Doc” holds the position of fullback and played in 21 quarters.
Doc played such a stellar game in the memorable V. P. I. contest last year that he won for himself
immediately a place on the Varsity, and eventually in the “D" Club. Ever since then, “Doc” has been there with
the goods whenever called upon. J. P. Hendrix, who played at quarterback in 39 quarters during the past season, was
awarded a “D” and one star. Jim has proved at all times an able leader of the team and his
quick thinking has often saved the day for the Wildcats. J. C. Hunt, otherwise Popsy, was awarded a “D" and
one star. Popsy played in 17 quarters during the past season and always delivered the goods when most needed. It
was his educated toe that brought victory in the P. C. game and he accounted for the lone counter in
the U. of N. C. game. He plays at halfback. S. W. Summers, one of the strongest cogs in the
Red and Black Machine, played in 19 quarters during the past season. Due to an injured ankle sustained in the
V. P. I. game, Sam was kept out of several games but in all in which he played he accounted
for many a broken play on the part of the Wildcat opponents. Sam received a “D.” C. E. Hodgin, at
tackle, played in 20 quarters during the past season and received a “D.” Hodgin has exhibited a great style of
fight all season but in the game with U. of N. C. he broke his leg and was thus eliminated
from the Wildcat fighting line for the rest of the year. Flake Laird played in 25 quarters last season and
receives a “D.” Flake is a most versatile player, filling with equal excellence either a backfield position or one in
the line. H. H. Lindamood was awarded a “D.” He played at tackle and was in 24 quarters during last
season. Harry came to Davidson last year with a great athletic reputation stretching back through high school but could not
play football due to the fact that his heart was in bad condition. This year, though, he was able to
come out and he readily made a place on the team and played a wonderful brand of ball at all
times. H. L. Vance played at left guard through 30 quarters last season and was awarded a “D” for his
excellent services. Harry was at all times a good, steady, reliable player and was always very much present when most
needed. R. E. Boggs, better known as Sook, filled the position of right guard for 10 quarters and was awarded
a “D.” Sook possesses the weight and drive necessary to make him a dangerous opponent both on defense and offense.
His playing in the V. P. I. and Wake Forest games was especially noteworthy. W. M. Black has the distinction
of having played in every quarter of every game played last season. Using a smashing drive similar only to that
of a locomotive under full steam, he was a most consistent ground gainer, as it generally took three or four
to stop him. He played at right halfback and was awarded a “D.” Ted Covington was awarded a “D.” He
held the position of halfback through 19 quarters last season. It was Ted who caught the pass that netted Davidson
a touchdown against N. C. State and as an off-tackle runner he repeatedly proved his excellence. Tom Baker, who played
at end, was awarded a “D.” Tom played in 17 quarters and, through his uncanny ability to receive passes, was
one of the star ground gainers for the Wildcats. Lucien Wells came out comparatively late in the season but immediately
began to show up as a brilliant prospect. He filled the position of halfback through 12 quarters last season and
is one of Davidson's brightest hopes for next year. He received a “D.” W. Z. Bradford, manager of the “scrappingest”
team on the gridiron, was awarded a “D.” Too much credit cannot be given Bradford for the excellent manner in
which he ran things through the last season.

In the lexicon of youth, which Fate reserves for a bright manhood, there’s just one word to sum up the
college student’s idea of dress! Ease! Hence the success of our young men’s Fall and Winter suits. Rather full backs
with perfectly soft fronts. Trousers fairly wide. Good selection from $35.00.

MELLON'S

VICTROLAS New Records Weekly — VICTOR ANY BRUNSWICK GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES LUDWIG DRUMS PLAYER
PIANO ROLLS SHEET MUSIC Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. CHARLOTTE

We are specially prepared to analyze and take care of your INSURANCE NEEDS A consultation with us might SAVE YOU
SEVERE LOSSES McALISTER CARSON, Manager Insurance Department Independence Trust Company Phone 3940
