THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 25, 1923

ATHLETIC NEWS

Decision On Fresh Game With Furman Is Reversed

Final Score of Furman-Davidson Colt Game is 0-0

“The Furman-Davidson freshman football game was a 0-0 tie. My decision on the field—that the pass by Sapp of Davidson
from behind his own goal was not a safety—was correct. My later reversal of this ruling and awarding of the
game to Furman by a 2-0 score was incorrect.” Such is the statement received by Coach Younger from Turner Bethel
who refereed the game here on October 6. The athletic authorities at Furman have accepted Referee Bethel’s latest ruling.

The point at issue was a delicate one. Davidson in the last minute of play called for a punt from
behind her own goal line. A bad pass from center to Captain Sapp forced him into a position that would
have led to a safety had he not thrown the ball over the goal line into the field of play.
Coaches of both teams were called on the field and rule-books were in order. Referee Bethel ruled that it was
not a safety and penalized Davidson for illegally grounding the ball. Davidson then punted out and the game ended as
Furman was down on the forty-yard line. It was several hours later when the referee reversed his decision and awarded
the game to Furman.

This clears the record of the freshmen. They have won two of the three games played and have not been
scored upon.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME

DAVID R. LAFAR
Football 3 Years

“Doc,” as he was familiarly known by his playmates at Davidson, was the type of man imbued with the fighting
spirit, the kind that stood the test in the face of the fiercest sort of opposition. This spirit, connected with
his great football qualities and natural-born instinct for leadership, gained for him the captaincy of the 1921 team of the
Davidson Wildcats. The team clashed up against some of the most formidable opponents in her history and made a good
showing against all of them. “Doc” was the aggressive leader throughout the season, scrapping hard in every game for the
sake of the Red and Black.

LaFar hailed from the nearby metropolis of Gastonia and on his first appearance in Davidson gained quite an impression among
the devotees of the gentle art of pig-skin chasing. He showed up well in the scrubs that year and came
back in fine form the next year, earning a well-deserved “D” at the guard position. “Doc” had an unusual ability
to play the guard’s part as he was well-built, strong, and fast. On getting through the opposing defense he was
a past master and always collected his share of tackles. He was slated for all-state guard and was stated by
the various newspapers of the state as “a driving sort of linesman that takes the heart out of the opposition.”
He featured with his brilliant playing in the Virginia game in the fall of ’20, also with the Wofford Terrier.
One paper said “LaFar got the number of the Wofford Terriers from the start and they soon found that they
could gain no ground over his part of the line.” Much mention was made of “LaFar’s great game” in the
3-3 tie game with State in the 1921 season.

Besides his football playing ability, “Doc” was a popular man on the campus and was liked by everyone who knew
him. He was elected into the O. D. K. fraternity, and also he was a member of the Kappa Sigma
fraternity. He now lives at Gastonia, his old home. He was seen in his natural habitat last Saturday as a
linesman in the Davidson-Wake Forest game.

PROGRAMS DISTRIBUTED BY THREE DAVIDSON STUDENTS

Twenty-five hundred programs, fresh from the press, were freely distributed among the throng of football enthusiasts that crowded into Wearn
Field at Charlotte Saturday afternoon for the Davidson-Wake Forest game.

By W. F. Galloway

Drive for State, Carolina, and Trinity, Wildcats. Get the Tarheels and we can forget the rest. Charlotte says that Davidson
will not win another game this year. Is that right, Wildcats?

The bright spot in the game was the fight that line put up when they had their backs against the
wall. The Charlotte News remarks that “the Wildcat line is weak.” In five games only one touchdown has been scored
on it from scrimmage. That doesn’t sound so terribly weak.

Just to give an idea of the speed of the Baptist backfield, the Observer declares that Allison scored the touchdown,
the News stakes its reputation on the fact that it was Rackley, while “Duke” Walthall up and affirms it was
Griffen. As it happens this time, the News was right.

The latest man to hang out his shingle as prophet is Archibald Keels. Archie asserted that the Baptists would be
beaten 13-7. Archie still maintains that he got half of it. It wasn’t the “better half” however.

Baptist meets Presbyterian twice within a week. By this time the Baptists will have won twice or the Sprinklers will
have evened the old thing up.

After all, the principal trouble was that the gang forgot to take those raincoats we were telling them about.

O. K. Allison took a tour of the state last week, getting regards on the Carolina, Lexington, Va., V. M.
I. vs. N. C. State, and State Yells. “O. K.” is a valuable scout. Another feature of his trip was
a fire-injection in the neighborhood of Meredith, Peace, and St. Mary’s.

The Wildcat Stock took a sudden tread in the opposite direction from Mohammed's Seventh Heaven. It's time for a little
rise now.

Football has taken another victim, a man who would have been a Davidson Wildcat. Like a true Wildcat, he died
fighting, defending his goal line. The Davidson student body wishes to extend its sympathy to the family of Leo Caldwell
of Winston-Salem.

The Charlotte News must have computed the Wake Forest game by geometric progression. Our well-known “dope-fiend” and adding machine arrives
at the conclusion that the gain from scrimmage.

V. P. I. beat Maryland 16-7, Maryland beat Pennsylvania 3-0, which gives V. P. I. 12 points on Penn. The
Gobblers beat us 7-0, which leaves us five better than Penn.

That chapter is pretty good and so we won't stop to show that Wake Forest is 11 points better than
Penn and that Carolina is natural champs, but it looks that way.

The only thing to go by is the dope, and it’s safest to go by that full-speed ahead.

To continue juggling the figures, we beat| P. C. 3-0. P. C. licked S. C. 7-3 and State downed the
Gamecocks 7-0. Which gives us an even break with State. BUT Wake Forest beat State 22-8 and only beat State
14-0, which places State above the Baptists. The rest we leave to the imagination.

Carolina’s Finest Young Men’s Shop
SPEC McCONNELL

Fellows, sometimes we even have to think to write this column of dainty nothingness. Any time anybody has any figures,
or dope on any team, or any bright ideas that could be rightly associated with athletics, how about turning them
in at 31 Ga. Thanx.

Next week's menu shows:
THURSDAY: Columbia, S. C., Clemson vs. U. of S.C.
SATURDAY: Richmond, Va., Furman vs. Richmond. Charlottesville, Va., Trinity vs. U. of Va. Lynchburg, Va., V. P. I. vs. W.
& L. Tampa, Fla., Florida vs. Wake Forest. College Park, Md., Carolina vs. Maryland. Elon, N. C., Elon vs. Emory
and Henry. Clinton, S. C., Citadel vs. P. C.

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

The tragedy and pathos portrayed by Miss Kohn and Mr. Gibson shone clear. “Stars of a Summer Night” was sung
by a male quartette as an encore. Miss Nan Gordon then gave two violin solos with Mrs. Baker as accompanist.
These two solos were two Spanish dances by Moszkowski. Miss Gordon’s technique is wonderful and she thrilled all her hearers
with the matchless quality and volume of the tones which she drew from her instrument. As an encore she played
“Waters of Minnetonka.” The next number on the program was the Quartette from “Rigoletto,” and was sung by Misses Kohn
and Smith and Messrs. Gibson and O'Grady. This was beautifully rendered and well appreciated by the audience, but in spite
of long continued applause the quartette would give no encore. The male personnel of the club then sang the “Soldiers’
Chorus” from Faust. This was another of the stellar selections of the evening. “Rube” Crafts asked us to announce that
the other class teams were not going to shoot many baskets on the Seniors this year. It may be noticed
in passing that Petrad Amdts is playing guard on the ’24 quint.

The closing number of the program was “The Hunter's Song,” by Weber. This was sung by the men of the
club and was exceptionally beautiful. Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, the director of the Club, was the accompanist in each of
the selections given. Her exceptional musical ability made a beautiful and colorful background for each part of the program.

Bill Heston, popular member of the Senior class, who has been critically ill for the past week in the Charlotte
Sanitorium, is well on the way to recovery, to the gratification of the entire student body. Bill was rushed to
Charlotte early Wednesday morning of last week when Doctor MacConnel pronounced his acute illness as appendicitis. Bill is Editor-in-Chief of
Quips and Cranks, Peanut Parcher Editor of the Davidsonian, a member of Sigma Upsilon Literary fraternity, and a recently elected
member of Omicron Delta Kappa. It will be some time before he can return to his studies at Davidson, but
it is gratifying to know that his condition is improved.

The program was made up of scores for the past games between the two schools, the schedules for the two
football teams for this season, pictures of the Davidson coaches and players, and ads from Charlotte business houses. It was
the thirteenth annual game, the tenth to be played in Charlotte. The game with Wake Forest has been played on
the same day of the month, ranging from the 25th of September to the 30th day of November. In 1908
and 1919, the game was played at Davidson. Similar programs for the two remaining games at Charlotte with N. C.
State on Nov. 3rd and Trinity on Turkey day will be distributed. Plans are being made to make them even
more attractive from the outside and complete on the inside. Over 12,000 will be printed in all.

Captain “Low-Pockets” is sending his B. V. D. Flyers on road practice for the cross-country run at Chapel Hill on
Turkey Day. Wake Forest is entering a team too. That is a challenge to prove the effectiveness of the honor
system in vogue at Davidson College.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES
Davidson Representative
J. P. HENDRIX
302 West
Samples now on display
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
J. M. HENDRIX AND COMPANY
GREENSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA

Central Cafeteria “On the Square”
Best Place to Eat

Central Hotel Building
Corner Trade and Tryon

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

It was a wise man who spoke about betting in Chapel last week. That was a consoling thought.

Would you call a snake dance in the flickering flame of a bonfire a fire-drill? For an answer, ask the
noble leader of our fire brigade. He knows.

The tabulation of the individual gain shows a few new faces: Shepherd, 30; Black, 16; Lindamood, 16; Hendrix, 15; McComb,
13; Covington, 5; Laird, 3; Faison, 1. Chambers had another fire Friday night, this time by special order right after
the pictures. O. K. Allison was chief fire-bug. However, he was guarded by a prominent member of the R. O.
T. C., and escaped with only slight burns. You notice that we are making this column as cheerful as possible,
which doesn’t mean that we don’t feel it as bad as anybody.

HONOR STORE OPENS
We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have it.

SHORT, THREE-BUTTON, HALF-BELTED ULSTERS are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right.
