4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN Associate Editor
W. M. COX Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON Athletic Editor
W. R. HOUGH Parcher Editor
W. M. COX Alumni Editor

Business Staff
P. J. STORY Subscription Manager
J. M. WATT Assistant Subscription Manager
K. S. McALPINE Circulation Manager
A. THOMPSON Assistant Circulation Manager
W. H. CROMWELL Bookkeeper
H. LYNCH Typist
W. R. HOUGH Advertising Manager
WATT McCAIN Assistant Advertising Manager

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
J. A. THOMPSON Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M.
WHARTON, D. B.
WALTERS, M.
MARSHALL, C. K.
MILLIHOUS, J. F.
MONK, C. F.
BOWIE, G. M.
SHAW, H. D.
O'CONNOR, E. P.
STOREY, P. J.
PATTON, J. TH.
WHITE, H. M.
PITTS, B. Y.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
RATCHFORD, B. U.
SMITH, C. F.
ROGERS, W. E.
THOMPSON, G. D.
THOMPSON, J. B.

EDITORIAL

CHRISTMAS GREETINGS

A poet sings, “Oh, what will the Christmas bring?” This is the season of the year when everybody is looking for something new in stockings. Bills, sir, bills.

It really requires a marvelous amount of tact to appear thankful at Christmas for something you didn’t want. Use a little judgment in buying Christmas presents. Don’t give your girl a pair of No. 8 boots, or purchase a looking-glass for a blind aunt.

The Christmas bell as it rings o’er this old world of ours is trying with all its might to sing, “The Heart of the Eternal is most wonderfully kind.” So kind, it folds itself in the wee form of a babe and rests in the manger of Bethlehem and lets a sweet, holy mother adore it. God knew this babe gift would blossom forth and its fragrance fill the world. He knew that childhood would be the object of loving care and presents rich and rare would sparkle on fir-boughs at Christmas time. He knew that the dark days of December would be luminous with a heaven-sent light from the babe. He knew that all these things would be, so he sent the babe into the world.

THE CHRISTMAS TOPIC

Nineteen hundred and twenty-three years ago at Bethlehem in Judea, was born an infant of humble parentage. With that child was born into the world a new civilization, a new Christianity, a new hope. It matters little to our rejoicing whether this Child was human or divine—whether he was God or God’s messenger of love. Christian and infidel alike agree that the life He led was pure and blameless and the principles He taught have blessed and sanctified the world.

All over the country, all over the world—a few years hence it will be all through the air—sounds the greeting Merry Christmas! On the sea and land, to the palace and in the hovel, in the hospitals and in the prisons, in the asylums amid the orphans and in the homes for the friendless and for the aged, wherever even two persons meet who know and love the story of Christmas, the greeting is exchanged.

Where can there be a parallel to the universal greeting? Is there any other sentiment that has the sovereignty of this cheerful and heartfelt word? It travels through the mails like doves to the altars of which the Scripture speaks, for surely the sentiment flits from altar to altar of the hearts of men and is as gentle as the dove. Grudges and animosity vanish before the waiting of Christmas greeting, the smile of hope illumines the countenance of those under the pall of depression, the dimpled cheeks of the babies seem like veritable nooks for fairy hiding as the lips coo in response to the Merry Christmas, with the little emblem of the day that comes to the infant from its loving parent.

In the days of romance hostile forces passed upon the field, sheathed their swords and clasped hands across the battle line, greeting one another with the sentiment of universal good will.

DAVIDSON DEBATING TEAM
(Continued from page 1)

The provision was for certificates abroad to allow immigrants to enter the United States, thus enabling this country to pick in some way its future citizens. It was emphasized that the present law was merely a makeshift.

The rebuttals came with the best exhibition of fight and clash of the whole debate. Throughout the first speeches much argument was used on both sides but as the debate entered into its final phase it became evident that some real differences of opinion were to be thoroughly thrashed out. Stith urged the validity of the two percent provision because it would remedy present evils by allowing mainly those of Nordic stock to enter. Masinter’s speech was full of pep and he claimed that the present law was working to very good advantage and he doubted the value of the new law since it differed so little from the present one. Hollingsworth clinched the arguments for the negative in the best rebuttal of the evening. He reviewed the stand of the validity of much of the affirmative’s authority. Lowry closed the debate with a strong speech in which he emphasized the lack of Nordics wishing to enter this country and the fact that men of the Italian type were much needed. He quoted to show that these types are very desirable.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussions on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of the Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

THE COURT OF CONTROL

“The old order changeth, yielding place to new.”

What do you think of the behavior of the present Freshman class, as individuals? If any have taken unwarranted liberties with you have you given the present system a fair trial by turning them over to the proper authority? Have you the right attitude toward the Freshman class?

The attitude of the upper classes toward the new men is taken for granted to be correct. The attitude of the Freshmen is never assumed to be the proper one. But do you realize that it is very probable that the attitude of the majority of the Freshmen toward the upperclassmen is a correct one? Were it not there would have been some vital change in the Freshmen’s attitude toward his Seniors with the advancing years. Yet the attitude of the new men remains primarily the same, whereas the attitude of the upper classes changes from year to year. High school and prep school graduates, year after year, are much the same. The percentage law can be applied to a new class as well as to anything else. Each session has its certain percent of “uppity” Freshmen. That percentage remains practically constant from year to year. Extreme freshness is a trait belonging to a fair percentage of men of Freshman age; circumstances affect the percentage little if any. It is this trait in a few men which marks the Freshman class as a class. But for their ignorance, the majority, perhaps a bare majority, could not be distinctly set apart as Freshmen. If you entered Davidson, say, in your third year, a new man, could you pick out a majority of the Freshmen as members of the fourth year class, did they not wear caps? Would their crude self-assertiveness distinguish the majority? The majority of Freshmen are not fresh, they are nauseatingly ignorant. Think it over.

No need here to go into the damage hazing was doing Davidson College. Every upperclassman knows of the half a score and more new men who left early in September, 1922, giving as their reason for leaving, the hazing existing at that time. This exodus has occurred regularly for years. It has not occurred September, 1923. Does this mean that the Freshmen were treated differently? One new man graduated with high honors the preceding June from one of the largest prep schools in the South. Shortly after he left Davidson the chief executive of his prep alma mater wrote the officials here that he would see to it that no other graduates of that school entered Davidson until the Freshmen were treated differently. The refusal of individuals to contribute to the Chambers campaign because hazing was in existence, is known, and these results of hazing mentioned are by no means all. The attitude of the body of Davidson supporters throughout the South with regard to hazing can well beRealized by the letters that poured in to the college officials expressing commendation at the action taken by the students in the abolition of hazing last year. Hazing stock is on the decline. Colleges throughout the country are taking the final steps in its eradication. Progress moves forward and Davidson is in its advance guard. Does the Court Control adequately handle the Freshmen? If there are improvements that can be made, what are they? No system is perfected upon installation; it is the result of evolution. What can you add that will help the evolution of the Court? These are pertinent questions. What is your answer? At present, the ignorance of the incoming men is handled by a series of talks on phases of college life to the Freshmen groups. Each group of about 40 men is in charge of some upperclassmen and the talks are delivered by the leading men of the two upper classes. The “impossible cases” are regulated by penalties varying in degree from confining to the campus and being forced to wear the yellow cap to suspension or worse by the Student Council, on the recommendation of the Court, in extreme cases. What do you think about the Court? If you don’t like some of the things said here, answer through this medium. Perhaps we can bring up some suggestion which will help better conditions. If you have any ideas as to how the Freshmen should be handled, air them here! Let’s evolve the Court a little bit this year.

CHARLOTTE PASTOR (Continued from page 1)

stream. The town of Beaufont water abundantly.” Mr. McIlwaine also told the story of a native Indian, who was weak with a great and terrible disease. As he lay on the floor in his hut, he saw a huge cobra crawl into his room and slowly come toward him. He had life, but in such small quantity that when the cobra struck him, he died. Another man, strong and powerful, came into the room, and killed the serpent. He had life more abundantly. “There are those of us who have some life, but are weak and easily overcome. Let us seek after the more abundant life! “But where are we to get this more abundant life? Christ says, ‘I am the vine, ye are the branches.’ Just as wild roses may be grafted onto other roots, and made into beautiful flowers, by drawing life and beauty from the stem, so may we gain the strength, the abundant life, from the True Vine, the Source of Life. We may gain that more abundant life, through putting our lives into His hands. “Men are apt to say their lives are not intended as models for anyone. But Christ intended the lives of His followers to be lived that would speak for Him. The lives of Christians are the greatest testimonies of the Christian religion, and not sermons from the pulpit. A Christian's life should draw others to Christ. “The fact that you are a Christian should and does place an obligation on you to lead a more exemplary life than your fellowman who is a non-professor of Christ. It should lead you to do your scholastic duties better, to play a harder, fairer game on the athletic field, and to be a better man in all respects.” The speaker brought in an incident in which eight men were discussing Sunday golf. Six of these men said it was all right to play the game on Sunday, while two opposed it. The six who favored playing golf on the Lord’s Day were professing Christians, while those opposing it were men who did not publicly acknowledge their profession of Christ. “This is what is keeping men from acknowledging and professing the religion of Christ.” “Live life in Christ, the source of power, and have life, and having life, have it more abundantly.” Ted Jones led the meeting, introducing the speaker, Perrin Hudgin led in prayer, and W. L. Hodgkin was the pianist for the evening.

ACHIEVEMENT ALONG MANY LINES (Continued from page 1)

er Hall nor College Church are large enough to accommodate the crowds present at college functions. A concerted move has also been made during the year toward beautifying the campus. Mr. D. B. Van Sant has been appointed superintendent of Buildings and Grounds. Because of the many building operations at Davidson in the past two years, the lawns about the dormitories have been seriously injured and protective measures have been instituted to return the campus to the beauty which characterized it in former years. Mrs. Smith, the college matron, has also done much toward beautifying the dormitories, and under her management, the janitor system has been greatly improved. Coach W. L. Younger accepted the position of head coach at Davidson, beginning September 1st and has done much toward rejuvenating the athletic system. The D Club is in the process of reorganization and all the letter men are heartily in favor of Coach Monk’s system. All in all, 1923 is a year which will long be remembered in Davidson annals.

E. J. ERWIN MAKES LIST (Continued from page 1)

Bernard Shaw—Man and Superman; Candida. Maurice Maeterlinck—The Blue Bird; Monna Vanna. J. M. Barrie—What Every Woman Knows; Peter Pan. Franz Molnar—Liliom.

Poetry
Noyes—Tales of the Mermaid Tavern. Masefield—The Everlasting Mercy; The Widow in the Bye Street. Rudyard Kipling—Poems. Edgar Lee Masters—Spoon River Anthology.

At a mass meeting on December 3rd, of all prospective players, Coach Doak officially opened the basketball season at Guilford. Suits were issued to 25 men. Several squads were organized, and a schedule was adopted that will keep the court occupied for all the remaining practice period before the opening game. The varsity as before will have the floor every night. The afternoons will be taken up with scrub squads of various strength.—The Guilfordian.

An average of 75 is required of all students at West Virginia University for graduation, according to a new faculty ruling. Seventy is the passing mark, but the average must be 75 for the four years’ course.—The Flat Hat.

Furman ranks second in the S. I. A. A., being topped only by Centre College. The Purple Hurricane has made an enviable record this fall, bowing to only one association team. Mercer defeated Furman 6 to 3. Unquestionably, the showing Furman made against the Virginia elevens was a strong factor in determining her all-Southern rating. It is tragic from Furman’s standpoint that Mercer escaped the Hurricane.—The Hornet.

The Yale student council has drawn up a pledge which all are supposed to sign, to the effect that in the future they will not take any part in “noisy or riotous actions or demonstrations in the streets or other public grounds of the city of New Haven.” Moreover, a fine of 75 cents was levied on all Sophomores who took part in a riot last June, for the purpose “of defraying the expenses of that disorder.”—The Yellow Jacket.

Following the precedent set by Washington and Lee and other universities throughout the country, the V. M. I. Corps has decided to give to all men who have been on a publication for two years an emblem to show the appreciation of the work being done by student newspapers. Seven men are eligible for these charms, miniature gold printing presses.—The Flat Hat.

On the basis of schedules prepared by 200 students, Dartmouth College has worked out an estimate of the division of time made by the average undergraduate at Dartmouth. The results show that he works nine hours a day and sleeps eight and a quarter hours. His itemized account of the time spent in recreation shows a total of five and one-half hours daily. That leaves one hour and a quarter unaccounted for, which probably can be added to the total given under recreation.—The Tar-Heel.

The University of North Carolina was victorious over the University of South Carolina in the first intercollegiate debate of the year, which was held in Gerrard Hall, Saturday night. The subject was, Resolved, That a Constitutional Amendment be Adopted Giving Congress the Power to Pass a Federal Divorce Act.—The Tar-Heel.

The Senior Class of Eureka College has revived an old custom of burying a fruit cake at the beginning of their Senior year and unearthing it at commencement time and having a feast. It was customary for the Junior class, provided they found the cake, to change the hiding place. There it would remain until their Senior year.—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

LARGER LAUNDRY TO BE BUILT FOR MORE EFFICIENT SERVICE

For some time there has been a rumor abroad that the college laundry is to undergo several much-needed changes. It has been proposed that the laundry be moved to a more convenient site. A second proposal and one of more importance is that concerning enlargement. In September, 1920, the present laundry started its work. The capacity of laundering at that time was such that 400 people might be accommodated. Since that time, the increase in demand has been great. The laundry now serves nearly twice that number, including many of Davidson’s citizens. The weekly average of pieces handled now is approximately 18,000. Yet despite this growth and inconvenience, the laundry has been doing its work as well as could be expected. Mr. Helper, the manager, states that though no definite action has been taken in the matter, it is understood that when school opens next year, a larger and more convenient building will be the home of the college laundry.