THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 12, 1923

OPEN LETTER TO THE CLASS OF ’22

Dear Classmates:

No doubt your experiences have been many and varied since we were together about this time last year; and your
thoughts occasionally dwell on the good times we had together at our old Alma Mater. In fact, my experiences one
year ago were more pleasant than they are today, and for that reason, I feel that it is advisable for
me to forsake the profession of teaching and go to Union Seminary next year.

Getting to the business of the moment, though, I believe we would all enjoy a trip to Davidson this year
for Commencement. From all accounts, '23 is going to put things over in fine style this spring, and I doubt
if there’ll hardly be room for us since this is not our year for a reunion. But I do believe
a reunion will be worth more to us this year before we are all scattered. Our regular time for a
reunion comes in 1927, but you know time works changes, and I believe we will enjoy a reunion this year
more than we will at any other time.

Now we must have a vote on this question, so I want to ask each of you to drop me
a card at your earliest convenience and let me know about it. My address is Hartwell, Georgia. Meanwhile, remember our
pledge to Davidson. Remember we are 100% behind athletics, the Davidsonian, and the Student Government, and to show our love
for the old Alma Mater, we agreed to stop whatever work we might be engaged in at 1:30 P.M. on
June the First each year (the hour our class flag was lowered) and offer a word of prayer for Davidson.

Keep up the spirit of '22 and remember “Davidson first, last, and always.”

Sincerely,
McGukin.

E. B. McGukin is teaching history in Hartwell, Georgia. In his letter to the Alumni Editor, McGukin says that he
is preparing his track team to win the laurels in the district, State, and Southern meet. McGukin will be remembered
by the Class of '22 as president in their Senior year and one of the hardest workers in the class.
He writes that he would like very much for the Class of ’22 to hold a reunion this Spring if
it would be advisable. He wishes everyone who could attend the reunion to let him know so that matters could
be arranged at once. He also wishes all of '22 to advise the Alumni Editor of their residence and occupation.

J. H. McKeithen of '22 is now Superintendent of Clarkton High School. His basketball team just won its ninth straight
game, entitling his boys to the championship of Columbus and Bladen Counties.

J. R. Jones, '22, is working with the Chero-Cola Bottling Co., of Salisbury, as assistant manager to Mr. Barrett Taylor
of the class of '09, who is manager of the concern. J. R. plans to go to Princeton University next
year, where he plans to follow his profession of higher accounting.

J. F. Clark, '22, is located at Gap Mills, W. Va., five miles south of Lewisburg. His work is of
a community nature. During school months, he teaches Bible and English in the High School and supplies the local pulpit
of Carmel Presbyterian Church. He is also Director of Athletics in the school. In the summer, he is occupied with
attending boys' and girls' camps and young people's meetings. He also serves as pastor in the church. He states, in
his letter to the Alumni Editor, that he would be interested to learn of the activities of all of the
Class of ’22 and hopes to see many of them at the Seminary next year.

P. H. McAlpine is principal of the Semora School, which was a recipient, along with Davidson College, of gifts from
the late Robert Smith, who left Davidson $50,000.00. He has been fortunate in securing as his Commencement Speaker Mr. J.
M. Rickards, A. B. ’22, of Davidson College and Post Graduate of Princeton. The delivery of the Baccalaureate Sermon has
been tendered to the Right Reverend Murdock McLeod, Davidson '22, of Union Seminary, Richmond, Va., who is still holding off
for better terms. He states that he has not yet settled on...

Four Junior Orators Will Compete at Commencement (Continued from Page 1)

The subject was The Effects of Money on Legislation. He showed how the moneyed interests of America control the legislative
bodies of the nation, especially in regard to tariff and to grants of certain lands that have been made recently.
He showed the effects of such conditions on nations of the past and the probable effects on America if continued.

R. H. Smith, the third orator, spoke on Provincial America. He showed the tendency of America to seclude herself from
world affairs today; how nations of the past had attempted the same thing and the effects on these nations. He
dwelt especially on the League of Nations and America’s relations to the league. He showed how the United States might
have had the leadership of the League and the results of such leadership on both America and the rest of
the world.

W. M. Cox was the fourth orator. His subject was A Permanent I Do. As could be surmised from the
subject, his theme was the divorce evil in our country today, its cause and effects, and, especially, a remedy for
these evils. The remedy, he said, lies not in any legislation, but in the...any plans for next year. W. B.
Nesbitt, M.A. '22, states that he has been teaching in Greenwood, S.C. for the term '22-'23. His plans for the
future are still indefinite.

News From the Class of '21

J. Eris Cassell, '21, is Principal of the Lenoir High School and is also serving as Athletic Director. He does
not anticipate a change of work in the near future.

W. M. McCorkle, '21, is with the Birmingham News, Birmingham, Alabama. "Bolo" says that the newspaper business is a great
game and endorses it for every young man. Since so many opportunities for success are offered in this work, "Bolo"
himself hopes to succeed. He states that he is very sorry to hear of the loss that Davidson sustained by
fire in the past month and hopes the building will soon be replaced.

Miscellaneous Alumni Notes

W. H. Cullum, 1919, was married March 24 to Miss Frederique Mollinger of Holland. Mr. Cullum is now with the
business department of the News and Courier of Charleston, S.C.

David Abbottsburg, Captain Walter A. Dumas, of Columbus, wish to announce the birth of their daughter, Joy Lawson Dumas, on
March 12th, 1923. Captain Dumas will be remembered as a member of the class of '19.

Baldwin, Nf, (C and Mrs. Georgia, ex-'23, is teaching at the proper attitude of the ward this question, divorce, American
public toward this question. He showed that the divorce, and especially the marriage institution, is the very basis of American
civilization.

D. B. Walthall spoke next on America’s Relationship to the League. He showed that the United States is endangering the
inherent ideals and civilization of the world by staying out of the League; that the world looks to America in
this hour of need, and that this is the time of trial for the young republic.

A. M. McBryde spoke sixth on The Work of the Christian College. He pointed out that of all the graduates
of many higher institutions of learning who have won distinction in any walk of life, the great majority have come
from Christian colleges. The influence of the Christian college is felt on every side.

P. J. Story was the next speaker. His subject was The League of Nations. Story took a different point of
view from any of the others. He showed a world need for a League and the position that America might
hold in the league; how the present, past, and future hold America accountable for her action in the near future.

L. D. Elkins was the last orator. His subject was Lincoln’s Heritage. The race problem is one of the greatest
problems the South is facing. The solution is to be found in the actions and attitude of the white people
of the South. No legislation or concerted action can solve this problem at once—it is a thing of years.

The Reel Stuff

Donna, featuring Pola Negri. Although she has been seen before on the American screen, this is her first real American
picture. The cast of Bella Donna includes Conrad Nagel and Lois Wilson. Pola Negri is at her best in the
portrayal of such characters as Bella Donna, a notorious woman who marries an English engineer, Nigel Armine, played by Conrad
Nagel. When they go to Egypt, the spell of the tropics completely transforms her, and when she meets Baroudi, a
desert chieftain, played by Conway Tearle, she forgets her husband’s love and clings to him passionately. When he suggests that
she gain her freedom by poisoning her husband, she readily agrees. Nigel narrowly escapes death, and when he learns the
truth, their separation follows. Then comes the supreme climax of the story—Bella’s return to Baroudi only to find herself scorned,
her agony on seeing her husband cared for by the woman he really loves (Lois Wilson), and her vanishing into
the desert in the face of a fierce sandstorm. In these scenes, Pola Negri is at her best, and thrill
after thrill is provoked by her wonderful artistry.

On April 28th, Robin Hood will be shown here. It is an Allan Dawn production and has run a full
season in New York, showing every day to a crowded house. This picture is considered to be Douglas Fairbank’s supreme
achievement.

D. Fresh—Jack sure is artistic, isn't he?
Soph—How is that?
Fresh—You should see him draw on a cigarette.

Have you noticed that bandage around Hippo Houck’s head? Somebody said he fell off the tank one night last week.
We wonder—?

Albert Bruce Curry, Jr., '07, is professor of English and Bible at the Biblical Seminary of New York, located at
541 Lexington Avenue.

M. H. McGilvary, '96, is professor of art in the Carnegie School of Technology, at Pittsburgh, Pa.

Reverend J. F. McKinnon, graduate of Davidson and the Columbia Theological Seminary, died at the hospital in Rutherfordton on March
22, death resulting from ptomaine poisoning. The deceased was a prominent educator and was a former member of the board
of trustees of Davidson. For the past three years, he had been a teacher in The Westminster School and pastor
of Brittain Presbyterian Church, which is located at the school.

HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
"EVERYTHING MUSICAL"
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.
On the Square

Courteous Regards For the Needs of Every Customer

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Rain may prevent outdoor athletics and keep away the crowd from indoor events, but your expected income from either source
can be made sure by rain insurance procured from McAlister Carson, manager ('13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.
