Bon Voyage Dr. Grey
THE DAVIDSONIAN
Come Again Gen. Shanks
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. pry THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 19, 1923.

PROMINENT YOUNG LAWYER SPEAKS AT VESPER SERVICE
W. H. Bobbitt Chooses Life Service As Theme for His Discourse.
REMARKS WELL RECEIVED
Interestingly Defines and Discusses Character.

“Learning to Live” was the subject of an unusually interesting talk at the “Y” service last Sunday evening, by Mr.
W. H. Bobbitt, a prominent young lawyer of Charlotte. Bascomb Sorrells introduced the speaker, stating that he was a graduate
of Carolina, of the class of ’21. Mr. Bobbitt said that he could not understand why he should be chosen
to speak to a Davidsonian audience, since he is not only a graduate of Carolina, but that he is also
a Methodist. “But,” said Mr. Bobbitt, “we all have common principles and ideals, which bind us as one.” Bascomb was
in charge of the service, assisted by Bob McLeod, who led the singing.

(Continued on Page 5)

3 NEW PROFESSORS ADDED TO FACULTY
Prof. L. M. Currie Will Take Special Work at Cornell.

The Faculty will be enlarged next session by the addition of three new teachers, Professor F. L. Blythe and Messrs.
C. K. Brown and W. N. Mebane, all alumni of Davidson. The college will be able to do better work
in instruction than heretofore as the sections in the lower classes will be smaller.

Mr. C. K. Brown was Valedictorian of the class of '21. He received his M. A. from the University of
Virginia last year and this session has a graduate fellowship at the University of North Carolina. Next session he will
teach the classes in Mathematics which were taught by Prof. L. M. Currie this year.

Mr. W. N. Mebane, of the Class of ’18, will teach two sections of Physics I and will have charge
of all the laboratory work in that subject. Mr. Mebane was for a time at V. P. I. in the
Engineers Training Camp and returned from that place in '18 to receive his diploma. He married in June, 1920, and
is at present living in Dublin, Virginia. He expects to be at Davidson for his class reunion in June.

Prof. F. L. Blythe, after taking the A. B. degree at Davidson went to Columbia and received his M. A.
there. He then returned to Davidson and taught Freshman Latin and Greek here for two years, later serving as instructor
in several preparatory schools for boys. He comes to Davidson this time from the Blue Ridge School for Boys. It
is Prof. Blythe’s plan to spend the entire summer in Spain, for a while at the University of Madrid and
later traveling over the country, studying the manners and customs of the people. Next session he will teach several classes
in First and Second Year Spanish.

There will be several changes in the present Faculty next year. Prof. Goldiere will teach, in addition to a few
sections of Spanish, some classes in French. The first year Physics will be divided into three sections, two to be
taught by Mr. Mebane and the other by Dr. J. M. Douglas. Freshman Math will be divided into smaller sections,
five of which will be taught by Mr. Brown. Prof. L. M. Currie will be at Cornell next year taking
graduate work in Chemistry toward a Ph. D. degree. Prof. O. J. Thies also plans to spend the summer at
Cornell taking graduate work in Chemistry.

CABINET FOR NEXT YEAR
W. J. Jones, President-elect of the Y. M. C. A. for 1923-24 announces the following cabinet for the ensuing year:
Personal Work—Lee McLean
Bible Study—Eugene Regen
Mission Fund—John Smith
Deputations—Angus McBryde
Community Work—Marion Murray
Entertainment—Albert Hillhouse
Weekly Meetings—Wiggs Bradford
Boys Work—Warren Cox
Mission Study—Charlie Hodgin
Publicity—Bill Heston
Hand Book—Don Chipman
Movies—Watt McCain
Attendance and Records—Harry Price
Sunday Schools—Julian Briggs.

COLLEGIATE WRITERS MEET AS GUESTS OF QUEENS COLLEGE
N. C. Press Association Convenes In Regular Semi-Annual Session.
DAVIDSON REPRESENTED
Prominent Journalists and Literary Men to Address Embryo Writers.

The annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will be held at Queens College in Charlotte on April
19, 20, 21, the first session to be held at 7:30 P. M. of the opening day. Delegates representing the
collegiate press circles of the whole of North Carolina will be in attendance as well as prominent journalists from the
leading newspapers of the State. The Davidsonian’s representatives are R. R. Jones, W. Z. Bradford, and L. D. Elkins. W.
F. Galloway and D. B. Walthall are representatives of the Davidson College Magazine.

An added feature of this year’s program is the taking up of an anthology of North Carolina Short Stories of
the past year. This is an entirely new branch of activity in this state and yet complete success can already
be foreseen. This anthology of North Carolina’s own literary products will come off the press about the same time as
the National Anthology of poems and no doubt will compare favorably with the latter.

Addresses by prominent newspaper men of the state, who through years of experience have gained preeminence in this profession, will
present to the delegates at the convention the practical side of the newspaper game and also the aim and ideals
of modern day journalism. Work of the past year will be gone over and carefully reviewed. In this way the
various press bureaus will be helped by the timely suggestions from the other colleges, and a mutual understanding built up
that will greatly increase the value of the collegiate publications in the state.

Officers will also be elected for the coming year. Those holding office at the present time are: President, Miss Alice
Lowe of Meredith; first Vice-President, Miss Lois Rogers of Queens; second Vice-President, R. S. Pickens, Carolina; Secretary, Miss Fannie Paul
of Meredith; and treasurer, Liston D. Elkins of Davidson.

The object of this association is to promote literary and journalistic endeavor in the colleges of the state of North
Carolina. It was organized three years ago with J. Eris Cassell of Davidson as President and during its brief history
it has gained an enthusiastic membership and has accomplished

(Continued on page 4)

SOPHS STAGE BRILLIANT AFFAIR IN QUEEN CITY
Chamber of Commerce Banquet and Keith Theatre Party Enjoyed by Large Number.
1925 ON KEITH PROGRAM
Faculty and Members of Other Classes Present as Guests.

The Class of '25 enjoyed a long-to-be-remembered Soph Banquet at the Queen City Chamber of Commerce Monday evening, with a
splendid dinner and highly entertaining program. When Piggy Martin, the toastmaster, opened the ceremonies at seven o'clock, ninety Sophs and
six guests of honor, representing the faculty and other classes took their places. The hall was tastefully decorated in the
class colors, orange and black, and the scene was illumined by orange candles. The programs, white with the class numerals
in orange and black on the cover, added to the general effect and proved the finishing touch to the decorations.

After the festivities were well under way, and the dinner was drawing to a close, Harry Price, the class historian,
gave a history of the first two years of the class, telling of their achievements along every line of college
activity. The toastmaster then called on four members of the class who responded with both humorous and serious talks. Duck
Shepherd gave a humorous speech on the faculty, showing them up in no uncertain terms. Jim Hendrix, the first president
of the class, spoke on the subject “Twenty-five” and in a serious talk urged every member of the class to
develop his talents.to the utmost and make the class known as a class of men. Joe Earnest, looking into the
future as shown through a vision of Trawick’s, showed the future of several members of the class, some aspiring to
the heights while others more degraded, whiling away their time in pool rooms. Julian Briggs was next called upon by
(Continued on Page 5)

CLASS LEADERS CHOSEN TO LEAD CAMPUS ACTIVITY
Jones, McIlwaine and Baker Are Chief Executives.

The past week has witnessed the selection by the individual classes of their leaders to pilot their activities during 1924,
and with it is brought to a close the various class elections during the year. R.R. Jones, C. M. S.
McIlwaine, and Tom Baker are the choices of the rising Senior, Junior and Sophomore Classes as their respective presidents.

Randolph Jones was elected as Senior Class president over J. I. Smith, the other nominee, J. D. Parrish having been
eliminated on a previous ballot. L. D. Elkins was elected Vice President; J. Lee McLean, Secretary and Treasurer; O. K.
Allison, Historian; and W. F. Gallaway, Poet.

In the rising Junior Class McIlwaine was elected president over J. R. Briggs on the third ballot. The vote was
a tie between the two on the second ballot, a large field of contenders having been put out of the
running on the first attempt. R. W. Oeland was elected Vice President; and A. W. McAllister, Secretary and Treasurer.

Tom Baker won out with a large majority over the other candidates as president of the rising Sophomore Class. C.
F. Monk was elected Vice President and E. K. Regan, Secretary and Treasurer.

1924 STUDENT COUNCIL

At meetings of the various classes held after chapel Monday morning, the following student council representatives for next year were
elected:

Senior Class
K. S. FAISON
A. M. McBRYDE
J. D. PARRISH
J. I. SMITH
D. S. PHLEAGAR

Junior Class
J. O. HENDRIX
K. E. BOGGS
M. S. BEALL

Sophomore Class
J. A. McMILLAN
N. E. SAPPENFIELD

WILDCAT NINE FRONTS STIFF BILL DURING NEXT WEEK
Formidable Row of Opponents Confronts Coach Buck’s Diamond Squad.

SOUTH CAROLINA TRIP
Elon and V. P. I. on Sprunt Field; Wofford, Clemson, Furman on Road.

The Saturday following the two games with Wofford on Tuesday and Wednesday, the Wildcats took on Elon at Davidson for
the first contest with them this year on the diamond. On the following Tuesday the Red and Black meets the
Virginia Polytechnic Institute at Davidson. After the memorable football game of last year, the Gobblers should be thirsting for blood
and a hot game should develop out of this contest. After this game the Wildcats embark on the South Carolina
trip where they meet Wofford, Clemson and Furman.

Elon this year does not seem to be running true to form, for they have lost a great part of
their collegiate schedule and seem to be especially weak on the pitching end of the team. Elon lost games to
State, Wake Forest and Trinity. They lost to State 5-2 and as the Wildcat pill tossers held State to one
lone marker this should give us a good margin there. Wake Forest beat Elon 4-1, and as State beat Wake
Forest 5-1, the Presbyterians should come out on top of the score. They lost to Trinity by a good margin,
however we have not played Trinity as yet, so nothing can be derived from that source. Summing it all up,
however, the Wildcats should beat Elon by a good score.

V. P. I. this year is not doped as having a wonder team, though we know from past experience that
they always put up a good fight. The Gobblers have met defeat several times in contests with northern schools this
spring, and our prediction is that the Wildcats should walk off with the Gobblers here on April twenty-third.

The Wildcats are apt to meet the strongest opposition of the year on the South Carolina trip. Wofford so far
has about broken even with her opponents. They romped away with the University of South Carolina, but Clemson has frocked
them, but then Tuesday and Wednesday should show the exact strength of the Gold and Black warriors. In Clemson, the
Wildcats will meet the strongest opponent of the season. Clemson has come out of numerous contests with victories over Furman
(3), Erskine and Georgia, and lost to South Carolina by only a small margin. (Continued on page 4)

STATE ENGINEERS OUTCLASS RED AND BLACK CINDER MEN
Streibich and Gracey are High Point Men For the Wildcats.

JAVELIN RECORD BROKEN
Splendid Times Despite Rain and Muddy Track.

N. C. State showed themselves to be superior in a majority of the fourteen events in the track meet at
Raleigh last Saturday and Davidson was turned in on the small end of an 88-38 score. The Farmers ploughed through
the cold, drizzling rain in times that were better than they had made in dry weather the week before. The
Wildcats were a trifle off form, but it was clear that even in the best of shape they wouldn't have
been able to make much headway against the kind of opposition that State put up.

The Engineers took the lead in the first event when Johnson of State sprinted unexpectedly from behind and beat Gallaway
to (Continued on page eight)

DR. GREY MAKES EXTENDED TOUR THROUGH EUROPE
Dr. W. R. Grey, Vice-President of Davidson College and Professor of Latin and French, left Davidson last Monday for an
extended trip through parts of Europe where he will do post graduate work in connection with the language department. Prior
to his leaving the college, Dr. Grey has discontinued his Latin and French classes, this year’s work having been completely
covered by means of extra classes each week. Final examinations were held in all classes last Friday and Saturday.

Doctor Grey went from Davidson to Charlotte, where he entrained Monday night for New York. He remained in New York
only one day, sailing on the French liner La France last Wednesday. He will land at Havre, France, about April
25th. Doctor Grey plans to spend but a short time in France before going through Paris to Italy. He plans
to be in Rome about eight or nine weeks, during which time he will be connected with the American Academy
of Rome, doing research and post graduate work in Latin and Italian languages and literature.

While in Italy, Doctor Grey will make Rome his headquarters, from which place he will visit several cities and points
of importance. His visits will take him to Naples, Pompeii, Mount Vesuvius, and other places noted for their historic and
literary value.

On his return trip from Italy, Doctor Grey plans to spend a short while in the picturesque Alps of Switzerland,
from where he will go through Germany into France. He will spend about five or six weeks in France, most
of that time in Paris. While in France, Doctor Grey will take special work under a noted French professor and
will study the customs and enunciation of the French people.

Doctor Grey has booked passage on the French liner, Savoie, for his return trip to the United States. He expects
to sail from Beauvoir, France, on the twenty-fifth of August, landing in New York about the first of September. After
spending a few days in the New England metropolis, he will return to Davidson, where he will resume his work
as professor of Latin Language and Literature and Professor of French.

D. D. I. McKeithen, '17, is now cashier of the Central Bank of Page Trust Company, located at Aberdeen, N.
C.

SEVEN MORE WEEKS THEN?
