THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 29, 1923.

MESSAGES FROM THE CLASS OF ’21

In an effort to keep in touch with our alumni and to allow each of them to know the location of the others, the Davidsonian has compiled the following data, gained from several interesting letters received from the old 1921 men. The general trend of these letters is loyalty to the old school and bright hopes for her future. A glance down the following article will place, for one, those men who have raided the old Red and Black, victoriously in every walk of life, at school and away in business and out. They would all be glad to receive letters from Davidson men, even as this department does. Their addresses are given and we can be reached at Box 455, Davidson, N. C.

Cecil K. Brown writes from Chapel Hill, N. C., where he is attending the University of North Carolina as a Teaching Fellow in the department of economics and is a candidate for an M. A. degree in June, 1923. Until then his address is 209 Pittsboro St., Chapel Hill, N. C., P. O. Box 586, but after that it will change as he then takes up a profession of teaching. He writes, “We cherish always the thought of going back to the ‘Hill’ and this is a pleasure that I am promising myself before many days slip by. Give my kindest regards to the fellows there, and here’s to the only real college there is!” Shake on that Brown, ol’ boy.

From Richmond, Va., comes news of W. E. Crane who is attending Union Seminary there. He is president of the Junior class composed of 45 men, 15 of which are Davidson graduates, and tells us that he is enjoying his work very much. On June 6th of last year Mr. Crane married Mrs. Katharine Rowland Crane of Athens, Ga., and she and their two children are comfortably situated at Richmond. He closes his interesting letter, “with every good wish for old D. C. always.”

Another old Davidson man at Union Seminary is Stafford W. Query. He is now a student in the middle or Junior class and is laying his plans for ministerial work in this country after graduation. And we certainly agree with his idea that Davidson “is a wonderful place to be,” and, may we add, “to be from” so as to express the thoughts of the host of alumni from which we have heard.

Joe McCaskill is prominently connected with the Boy’s Work (being secretary of that department of the Y. M. C. A. at Concord, N. C.). He hopes to take an M. A. from Columbia University soon, majoring in adolescent psychology, from whence he will continue in Boy’s work and service for the church.

D. K. Grille began with the class of twenty-one but after spending one year at Davidson went to Georgia Tech. Leaving ‘Tech’ he became connected with electrical work and has followed that line of work since then. At present he is with the Parr Electric Co., of New York City, in the Sales Department of the concern. Just to show how memories of Davidson linger in these fellows’ minds and keep them interested in the old school, we quote his request. “Will you kindly send me a copy of the paper, (referring to the special 1921 Alumni Issue) if not already published. Yours sincerely, W. K. Grille.”

We receive word from J. B. Sizer, Jr., that he is practicing law in Chattanooga, Tenn., after having graduated from the Cumberland Law School last June. As to his future plans—“they are vague but optimistic. I will probably practice law here for the rest of my life, unless the process of starvation becomes too painful.” His address is with Sizer, Chambliss & Chambliss, Hamilton National Bank Building, Chattanooga, Tenn.

B. W. “Romeo” Romefelt is now, and has been for the past nine months, actively connected with the Asheville, N. C., branch of the Wachovia Bank & Trust Company as head of the Bond Department, and states his intention of remaining with them permanently. “Romeo” must have gotten in practice by shouting the good points of Davidson to the world, otherwise we cannot account for the following bit of “egotism” which he threw into his letter. “As you probably know (although we didn’t) we have the largest bank between Baltimore and New Orleans.” Is that like him, fellows? He adds, “We hope to come down to Davidson (the best college between Baltimore and New Orleans—Ed.) a few days during commencement.” And we take this opportunity of inviting all the alumni to the exercises next June. We're always glad to see you, and you'll always find the latch-string out and a glad hand waiting.

Another alumnus who has entered the business game is George E. Meley. He is now representative of the Equitable Life Assurance Society located at 1106 Realty Building, Charlotte, N. C., and his future plans are to stay with that company.

Since leaving Davidson Major Robt. L. Rogers has attained the position of commandant at Chamberlain-Hunt Academy, Port Gibson, Mississippi. In addition to performing the duties of that office, he is professor of classes in English and History. His plans to remain there are only for the present and his future ones are not yet decided upon, but he can be found at that address for some while, yet.

Carl H. “Bobby” Long writes us from Winston-Salem where he is engaged in the Contracting and Building business with his father. He writes that his life work will be in this sort of business which at present is located at 1310 Liberty Street. Omitting the “bouquets” which he thrusts at the town in which he lives, we wish to quote part of his letter, which, in a way speaks a word for the whole Davidson Alumni Association of Winston-Salem. “We are mighty sorry that the authorities that be do not consider Winston-Salem when they schedule their games. Winston-Salem has always been strong for Davidson, and still is whenever she is given the chance.”

Fred E. Manning, one of the Juniors at Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, writes and tells of his intention of going to the Foreign fields at the completion of his course there.

Not so far from Davidson—to be brief—at Mooresville, our sister metropolis, is located F. N. Thompson, an ardent member of the class of ’21 who is now connected with the Thompson-Caldwell Construction Co. He plans to go to Salisbury soon where he will be for about a year helping with the highway construction in that neck of the woods. And last but not least, he is married and has a charming young lady visitor of seven months at his home.

Clarence N. Morrison sends his best wishes to the bunch from his station at the Seminary in Richmond. He intends to enter the active ministry after his completion of study.

A. F. Fricker is now attending M. I. T.At Cambridge, Mass., Lewis B. Schenck is another member of the class attending the Seminary in preparation for the foreign mission fields. Way down at Tulane University in New Orleans, James Steven Brown, Jr., is preparing for medicine and is now in his second year in that venerable institution. He prepared for this profession at Davidson, graduating with a B.S. degree and immediately entering his chosen work. His father was also a graduate of Davidson. W. W. Carter of the firm of Carter & Culbreth of Wilson, N.C., is engaged in the insurance and real estate business in that city. He plans to remain there permanently as he says he likes the place and his work is pleasant. Senator Culbreth is with him. Look at this, will you! James R. Bouleware, better known as “Jim,” hoops it up for the Davidsonian and Davidson in general. The Davidsonian to him is like a “letter from home” and he looks forward to its weekly advent with pleasure. Jim taught Mathematics and Science at Greenbrier Military School last year and is now teaching Mathematics at Woodberry Forest School, in Virginia. This fall he intends to enter the medical school of the University of Virginia. Best o’ luck, Jim. A. E. Fraleigh is manager of the Florida Leaf Tobacco in Madison, Florida, and is managing a very successful business. A deacon in the church at the tender age of the early twenties is the record of J. W. Long of Uniontown, Alabama. He was ushered into this most responsible position a few weeks ago. He is in the mercantile business with his father at that place and reports good business with nothing to worry about. Frank E. “Groundhog” Miller is a purveyor of kerosene, gasolines, and oils, etc., in a wholesale way, is located at Cross Hill, S.C., and still likes to hear from all the boys. His business is stabilized for the time being and he expresses satisfaction where he is located. At least one of the class of '21 expresses regrets of the incineration of the Watts dormitory. A. M. Mitchell sends his best wishes to the best college paper in the South. He is now at Union Theological Seminary and plans to enter the ministry soon. C. M. McCaskill is the Service Manager at the Geo. T. Bishop Co. Inc., Dodge dealers in Shreveport, La. Charlie is pulling strong for this town and plans to locate there permanently as he calls it the best town in the South outside of Davidson. He sends greetings to all his former playmates at Davidson. T. F. Martin, alias “Bill Joe,” alias “Daddy,” etc., is principal of the High School at Galena, Md., and has mapped out a course for himself that ought to land him in the hall of fame before very long. He plans to enter the University of Virginia next term, take four years of medicine, follow that with a year as an intern in some hospital, and then do work as a medical missionary in the foreign field. He then plans to take up graduate work in London, Edinburgh, or Johns Hopkins. He has not forgotten the old Davidson terminology and still slings it with a lavish hand in his letter. He is planning to visit the Hill real soon where he has many friends who will welcome his return. These are a few of the points which we have noted in these letters, and which we wish to pass on to our readers. First of all, there was a spirit, that old Davidson spirit, that manifested itself in every line of each letter, there was a feeling of loyalty and hope; in every one we found wishes for success in our work here and greater interest in the old school. But what struck us most, and what made us picture a typical tired businessman in his office with his feet propped up on his desk, blowing smoke rings in the air, while his pretty little blonde stenographer fussed and fumed at his delay, was the initial in the lower left-hand corner such as G. E. M. | H., J. C. M. | S. F., C. K. B. | K., and so on, the trademark of the stenographer mentioned above, and together with this was the stationery itself, bearing letter-heads of the fellows we all knew back yonder during the term of 1920-21. Reports from Crown Prince’s roommate state that Crown awakened himself the other night by his own snoring. This report explains that unusually loud noise that has been heard so much lately.

DOCTOR W. F. FAISON, NOTED ALUMNUS, DIES

Davidson lost one of her most distinguished alumni in the death of Dr. William Franklin Faison who died in Jersey City, N.J. on Feb. 24. Dr. Faison was of the class of ’89 and at the time of his death was recognized as one of the foremost authorities on the disease of cancer in the United States. He has enjoyed nationwide renown for his treatment and diagnosis of this disease and by his efforts the Fairmont Hospital in Jersey City was founded. After his graduation from Davidson and his medical education, Doctor Faison practiced medicine in his hometown of Fayetteville and from there went to a New York hospital where he practiced for twenty-eight years. His research work along the lines of cancer and the radioactive cures for it rapidly gave him preeminence in his chosen profession. At the expense of much money and time, he amassed a large quantity of radium which has been used during the last few years in the treatment of cancer. The Pennsylvania State Board had use of this for a while, paying Dr. Faison $15,000.00 per year for its use. In addition to his founding of the Fairmont Hospital, he was on the surgical staff of the St. Francis, the St. Mary's, the German, and the City Hospitals in Jersey City. An attack of pneumonia proved fatal, however, to this man who had done so much to promote the cause of medicine. Dr. Faison was known to many in North Carolina as a man of admirable character and sterling qualities. He was an earnest Christian and an elder in the Presbyterian church.

HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.

More students have been registered to date for next session than for the same date of any previous year. Keep in touch with that friend who is coming up next fall. Fire insurance is considered essential to the conduct of business but many men of affairs overlook insuring that which is behind all business, their health.

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
McAlister Carson, manager ('13)
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO., Charlotte, N.C.