THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

AS YOU WERE

This gives us a view of one of the baseball teams, we presume somewhere between 1900 and 1905. We will have to call upon some of the alumni to give us more definite information as to the personnel, and the year.

CALENDAR

Thursday, Nov. 15, 7:30 p.m.—Phi Society, Eumenean Society.
Friday, Nov. 16, 7:20 p.m.—Junior-Fresh Basketball.
Saturday, Nov. 17, 3:30 p.m.—Carolina Game, at Chapel Hill. 7:00 p.m., Movies.
Sunday, Nov. 18, 10 a.m.—Bible Class; 1:15 p.m., Christian Endeavor; 2:00 p.m., Ministerial Band; 6:15 p.m., Y.M.C.A.
Tuesday, Nov. 20, 7:15—Pandemic Society, Metrophilian Society; 9:00, Junior Eumenean; 7:30, Senior-Soph Basketball.

What Do You Know About Your Policy?

Question: A factory is insured for $150,000. There are two policies covering the property, one written by the “A” Insurance Company for $100,000, and the other written by the “B” Insurance Company for $50,000. A fire occurs that causes $75,000 damage. How much of this loss will the “B” company be required to pay?

Answer: $25,000. (Lines 101 to 105, New York Standard Policy, “Stipulations and Conditions.”)

W. E. PRICE
Charlotte, N.C.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
30 W. 5th St.
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S.C.

ALUMNI NOTES

Mr. W. P. Anderson is now located at Greenville, S.C., where he is engaged in the brokerage business.

The Glasgow, Ky. Presbyterian Church is now under the leadership of Rev. J. D. Gillespie. Rev. Mr. Gillespie leaves the Sharpesburg Church to assume his new charge. Mr. Gillespie was married September 20, 1923, to Miss Louise Archibald, of Louisville, Ky.

Andrew W. White is now connected with the law firm of Dunbar, Nutter and McClennen, of 161 Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass.

Earnest Ray Campbell, formerly of Davidson, led a class of 19 young men, who recently stood the legal examinations before the Supreme Court of Colorado. Mr. Campbell is now practicing law in Denver, Col.

Rev. E. G. Clary has recently accepted a pastorate in Murphy, N.C. Previous to moving to Murphy, Rev. Mr. Clary was minister of the church at Wilson, N.C.

Rev. A. R. Craig was installed as pastor of the East Side Presbyterian Church, of Durant, Okla., on October 12th, last.

An announcement has been received of the approaching marriage of Kenneth F. Montcastle, ex-’19, to Miss May Coan, of Winston-Salem, N.C., on November 17th. Mr. Montcastle is now located in Winston-Salem, being connected with the Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.

The address of Rev. W. B. Sullivan has been changed to 526 North Wilmington Street, Raleigh, N.C.

Mr. J. M. Jamison is now in business in Philadelphia, Pa. His address is Wood Building, 400 Chestnut St.

Graham Y. Davidson, ex-'22, was married to Miss Pearl M. Bradshaw, August 29, 1923, at Burnside, Ky.

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
A. T. SUMMEY, V.-Pres. and Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Asst. Cashier and Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,100,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

DR. R. B. LACY, DISTINGUISHED MEMBER OF CLASS OF ’06

On Armistice Day, two years ago, Davidson was thrilled by the address of one of her own World War heroes. He had been in the thick of the fight, from May 1918 to March 1919, serving as chaplain in the 113th Field Artillery. His regiment was engaged in the fiercest and most bloody battles of the war, including those at St. Mihiel and Argonne Forest, and of the Woevre and Toul sectors. He was cited for bravery for administering first aid under shell-fire. This and other deeds of bravery gained for him the name of “The Fighting Parson.” This man is Dr. Ben Lacy, of Atlanta, a Davidson alumnus. A brief sketch of his life follows.

Dr. Ben R. Lacy was born in Raleigh, N.C., in August 1886. His family is well-known in the history of North Carolina, his grandfather being president of Davidson College from 1855 to 1860, and his father is now holding the position of state treasurer. He had one brother, T. A. Lacy, who also graduated from Davidson, being with the class of 1922.

In the fall of 1902, Dr. Lacy entered Davidson College, having graduated the previous spring from the Morson and Denson Preparatory School of Raleigh, N.C. During the four years he remained at Davidson he was prominent in student activities. He made a letter as end on the football squad and played three years on the basketball team, which he managed his senior year. He was a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and of the Kappa Alpha fraternity.

After his graduation in 1906, Dr. Lacy taught school for two years in Decatur, Ga. He then went to England as a Rhodes Scholar, studying there for three years. At the end of that time he returned to this country and entered Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, Va. He studied there for four years, taking the three-year course, and then accepted the Hoge Fellowship for another year's work. In the early summer of 1914, he made a trip to Palestine; and, returning through Europe, he was caught in the rush of war preparation, making his first acquaintance with the Great War that was to sweep western Europe.Europe. He completed his trip home, and from 1914 to 1917 was assistant pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, of Raleigh, N.C. On the 13th of July, 1917, he was commissioned chaplain, with the rank of captain, in the 113th Field Artillery. The following August, when his regiment was mustered into the Federal Army (before this action, his company was an organization of citizens), he was recommissioned by President Wilson. The regiment served from September 15, 1917 to March 19, 1919 overseas. In May, 1919, following his return to this country after the war, Dr. Lacy married Miss Emma White, of Raleigh. In the same month, the degree of Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon him by his alma mater. During the year he accepted the pastorate of the Central Presbyterian Church, of Atlanta, Ga., which position he now holds.

COLONEL SCOTT SPEAKS AT RALEIGH CELEBRATION

Among the many speakers appearing on platforms throughout the state on November 12th, Armistice Day, was Col. Don E. Scott, who was asked to deliver an address to the people of Raleigh, N.C., as a guest of the Raleigh Post of the American Legion. Col. Scott is well in a position to speak on the anniversary of the declaration of peace, as he was one of the foremost men in the rank of the A.E.F. which brought about such a day so rapidly. Col. Scott is to be much admired by Davidson students and friends, because he, himself, is an old Davidson man, being an alumnus of the class of 1907. It was at the very outset of the war that his distinction began to come to him. Crossing the water as major of the 120th infantry, it was not long before his distinguished service earned the commission of lieutenant-colonel for him. A short time later, when his commanding officer was transferred to another detail, he was promoted to Colonel in the 120th and commander of the 12th Regiment. He remained with this regiment throughout the war, bringing it safely home and superintending its muster out at the close of engagements. Colonel Scott was chosen by the state of North Carolina to command the organization of a National Guard, and he has so built up that organization that at present it has some 2,000 officers and men, comprising one of the finest military detachments in the United States. While still a young man, he is really a veteran, having spent eighteen years in the service of the National Guards, and has thus become very popular with all the serving and ex-service men of the state, also with the large number of private citizens who have met him and know him as a man of worth and merit. He spoke at the auditorium in Raleigh, and the Legion Post was indeed fortunate in having secured so fine a speaker for that day.

When the State Medical Examination was given in North Carolina, several old Davidson men were among the applicants taking the test. It is a rigid examination, the purpose of which is similar to that given to law students before they are permitted to practice, and, like the law exam, those passing it satisfactorily are given a license to practice medicine in the State of North Carolina. Those who were fortunate and skillful enough to earn a passing grade on the test were: V. M. Archer, '14; S. M. Crisp, '16; J. A. Shaw, '16; Robert L. Murray, '18; H. H. Menzies, '19; G. D. Elliott, '20.

DAVIDSON AND ARMISTICE DAYS COMBINED

(Continued from page 1)

Yandle, G. A. Doggett, E. W. Henderson, and J. A. Yarbrough, of Charlotte, and Mrs. S. I. Presson, of Davidson. Davidson College had a float in the parade representing the old Chambers building. Several members of the Glee Club on the float sang as the parade moved along. After dinner, the people gathered in front of the speakers’ stand to hear the speeches arranged for the occasion. Doctor Richards, pastor of the college church, led the assemblage in prayer. President Martin, after a short talk in which he thanked the State of North Carolina and its officials for the splendid highway now running through Davidson, introduced Mr. W. C. Wilkinson, state commissioner of highways for this district. Mr. Wilkinson gave a short talk on the building of the new Davidson College Highway. He said that he had been told by a high official of the United States government Bureau of Public Highways that it was the best-constructed road in the country. Mr. Wilkinson concluded his talk by introducing Mr. Frank Page, Chairman of the Public Highways of North Carolina. Mr. Page gave to the audience a survey of the work of the Highways Commission in the State and some interesting statistics of the road-building operations. At the conclusion of Mr. Page’s address, President Martin introduced Governor Morrison. The day's program was concluded by a scrappy football game in which the Davidson High School beat the Fort Mill High School by the score of 7-0.

VICTROLAS

New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK

GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS

CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES

LUDWIG DRUMS

PLAYER PIANO ROLLS

SHEET MUSIC

Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.

CHARLOTTE

Offers to the public a dependable service.

The Independence Trust Company

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT

If interested in insurance in any of its many branches, it will pay you to consult us.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.

CHARLOTTE, N.C.