THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 13, 1923

SENIORS CLASS BASKETBALL CHAMPS

Seniors Nose Out Juniors In Finale Contest and Capture Class Bunting

Juniors Lose Third Game of Season by One Point Margin

In the last class basketball game of the season, the Senior team defeated the Junior team by the score of 15 to 14. It was one of the best games seen here in a long time on account of fast teamwork and close guarding by both teams. Each side was supreme in one half, but the Seniors had too much of a start on the Juniors in the first half for their opponents to catch up. There was the largest crowd of the fall out and a good deal of cheering was heard along the sidelines as the two teams struggled for the mastery. There were comparatively few fouls for this type of game where each player was on edge and everyone fighting their hardest.

The game started off with a dash and McLaurin dropped one through the net for the first counter. Paul Story then got over-anxious and Brice dropped a free one through the basket from the 17-foot line. After two or three fouls had been committed and play had gone rather languidly, Paul Story got it back on the Juniors and brought his score up to 3. He then proceeded to put two in succession through the loop and Ed Morrison followed it up with one from about the middle of the court. Two more fouls by Story and a field goal by McBryde brought the score to 11, where it remained for the rest of the half.

The second half was a repetition of the first, only the Juniors had the upper hand and the Seniors managed to score one more point in this half than the Juniors had been able to score in the first half, by which margin the Seniors finally won out. The most remarkable thing about this half was the playing of Ed Brown, whose spectacular work kept several of the Junior men from scoring. The players of neither team seemed to be able to hit their stride as they had exhibited for a time during the early part of the season.

The two bright spots in this game were the playing of Harry Price and Ed Brown. Both these men are picked for all-class berths and they vindicated the choice of the pickers in choosing them. This was the last game of the season and with it there hung two matters: one was the championship of the classes. If the Seniors won, then the season would stop right there, but if the Juniors won, there would have to be another game for the highest honors.

The score:

Seniors (15) Position Juniors (14)
McLaurin (4) Forward Morrison (3)
McBryde (4) Forward Brice (3)
McNair (3) Center Koenig
Price (5) Guard Brown
Substitute: Boushee for Story.

All-Class Team Selected By Captains and Coaches

Elkins, a Unanimous Choice for One Forward Position

As the season is now on for everyone in these United States to be picking teams representative of their section of the country, we, the Davidsonian, will now endeavor to pick a team from the four classes that participated in the class basketball league that has just come to a close. For a better idea of a representative team, the coaches and captains of the various teams have been consulted. Their decisions have been taken as votes and the different positions have been picked by these votes.

The season just past was not a runaway in the slightest degree. There were only two men who shone head and shoulders above the rest, but not even these two were above some discussion by the pickers. These two men both happen to be forwards and captains of their respective teams. Liston Elkins, of the Seniors, and Ed Morrison, of the Juniors, were these two men.

For the forward position, there were four men mentioned prominently: Elkins and Boushee, of the Seniors; Morrison, of the Juniors, and Huie, of the Sophs. Elkins and Morrison are awarded the positions both on account of their speed and their ability to cover the floor. They also were the high point men, Elkins getting 56 points for the season and Morrison getting 48.

For center, five men were mentioned: Huie, Cooke, Fawcette, McNair, McBryde, of the Sophs, Fresh, Juniors, and Seniors, respectively. Fawcette got the most votes and is hence awarded that position on account of his ability to cover the floor and drop the oval through the basket. He was undoubtedly the individual star of the Fresh team.

For the position of guard, there is a little more competition. There were six men named for guard, but the two that stand out mostly for their work during the past season were Price, of the Juniors, for running guard, and Brown, Senior, at standing guard. These two men were the best at guarding on the floor, and with Morrison and Fawcette to come down and help them, very few points would be scored by their opponents.

For utility-man, there seems to be only one man favored by the pickers, and that...Man is Six Meets Scheduled for Wildcat Mat Heavy Season on Deck for Captain Weems’ Grapplers—Two Virginia Trips on Schedule

The Athletic Association has contracted to hold two meets here: February 9th, Carolina, and February 23rd, Trinity. The Athletic Association has authorized four meets off the Hill, making possible and probable two Virginia trips. All that remains to be completed about these two trips is the fixing of the dates. The date for a meet with V. M. I., at Lexington, has already been set for the closing match of the season, March 1st.

Wrestling has begun. Prospects this year for a good team are excellent, on account of the large number of men out. Captain Weems is coach and says that a great deal of hard work must be done by each man before he will be in shape for a match.

The arrival of a new mat Saturday, 16 feet square, is expected to relieve the crowded condition, which has handicapped the men going out in the past. Since football season is over, quite a few of the football men are expected to come out.

The probable schedule follows:
Feb. 9—Carolina, at Davidson.
Feb. 16—V. P. I., at Blacksburg, Va.
Feb. 18—U. of Va., at University, Va.
Feb. 23—Trinity, at Davidson.
Feb. 29—W. & L., at Lexington, Va.
March 1—V. M. I., at Lexington, Va.

Captain Weems has outlined a program, in which every man coming out will receive systematic training. He plans to hold an elimination contest some night before the holidays. This contest will probably be held after a picture show, so that the students may see it. The men will not be put on pledge until after the holidays.

Miss Margaret Sample returned to Winston after spending the weekend with her aunt, Mrs. H. B. Sample. Miss Sample is a student of Salem College.

Onwards:
Elkins, Morrison, Fawcette, Brown, Price, Huie

What a shame! They're out of my range, sighed the cook when she looked at the burned biscuits.

GOT YOUR COPY YET?
Latest Magazines and Periodicals
DAVIDSON TRADE APPRECIATED
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
CENTRAL and SELWYN NEWSTANDS
CENTRAL HOTEL, SELWYN HOTEL

CLASS BASKETBALL STANDING
Points Opp. Points Field Foul Total Field Foul Total W. L. Pet.
SAMUEL ROBERT BRADY
39 24 42 42 9 37 119 5 2 816
6 5 500
17 12 127 6 5 333
49 28 126 64 23 151 2 4 333

Individual Points
Name Class Field Foul Total
Elkins Senior 22 12 56
Morrison Junior 21 6 48
McNair Junior 18 7 43
Boush Senior 17 3 37
Fawcette Fresh 14 9 37
Lawson Soph 17 2 36
Huie Soph 14 6 34
Anderson Fresh 12 3 27
Cooke Soph 10 5 25
McBryde Senior 10 5 25
Lindley Junior 9 3 21
Groover Fresh 6 5 17
Winn Fresh 7 1 15
Brice Junior 6 2 14
Price Junior 6 2 14
Kiser Fresh 6 2 14
Story Senior 5 3 13
McLaurin Senior 6 0 12
Beall Fresh 3 4 10
Coltrane Soph 3 1 7
Oden Soph 3 0 6
Moore Soph 1 1 3
Patrick Junior 1 1 3
Brown Senior 0 2 2

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Try Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL
Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents