6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 8, 1923

COVINGTON RECEIVES a pass to Johnston for a 33-yard gain. N. C. State (12) Davidson (6)

Captain Hearn
Ivers

FIFTEEN YARD PASS
Holland carried the ball over on two line bucks. Lassiter failed to kick goal.

Position: The Wildcat Tribe
Right End

Score: State 12, Davidson 0
Lassiter kicked to the 5-yard line to Shepherd who passed the ball to Covington who shot up the side.

Right Tackle
Harry Lee Vance

Harry Lee Vance came to Davidson from the neighboring town of Huntersville. Harry is 21 years old and weighs 167
pounds. Because of his being active and fast, he is making good at a guard position on the varsity this
year. In the State game this past week, Harry played left guard on the defense and right guard on the
offense. If he keeps up his present stride he will receive a “D” at the end of the season.

Harry came to Davidson, a graduate of the Huntersville High School. There he was prominent in all forms of athletics.
In his Senior year, 1922, he played both baseball and basketball. He entered Davidson with the class of '26. During
his first year he took an active part in football and made the Fresh team. He also took an active
part in baseball, making good in left field. At present, Harry is handicapped by having an injured ear. However, he
is working with renewed energy and is holding his place on the varsity.

Tom Baker

Tom Baker is known to every man in the college. He is the type that stands out easily among his
classmates. Since his first week as a Freshman, Tom has occupied a peculiar place in the campus activities. Coming to
Davidson from Georgia Military Academy, Tom brought with him a most enviable football record. At end, he had played splendid
and consistent football throughout his stay there. He was elected captain of the team his last year at prep school.
Tom showed a great knowledge of the game from the very start. When the Freshman team was picked, he easily
secured a berth as end and proved his worth by being elected captain of the Freshman team. As captain, he
piloted the Wildkitten through a successful season fighting for every foot.

The present season has seen Tom flash forth in his best form as a Wildcat pigskin artist. Never wearing a
headgear, he is in the thick of every play, gets his man when the play depends upon him, and receives
forward passes with uncanny skill. In the Citadel game, he showed up his best form and received a long forward
which a moment later was turned into the only touchdown of the game. In several other games, Tom has shown
up splendidly, although he has a hard time breaking into the game when such peerless and experienced ends as Nappy
Davis and Captain Faison are in the game. Tom shows that he is a true Wildcat and will make one
of the best football players that Davidson ever turned out.

VOLUNTEER CONVENTION
(Continued from page 1)

needs and possibilities of the situation in the world today and to consider the responsibility of the Christian students of
the United States and Canada in the light of this situation.

The speakers of the convention will be men and women who are recognized as authorities of the highest order in
their respective fields. The convention will be opened with four addresses dealing with the four great themes which are being
discussed in the colleges throughout the country this fall: Modern Industrialism, International Problems and the Christian Way of Life, Racial
Relations and Christian Brotherhood, and Present Day Social and Intellectual Unrest.

Two sessions will be devoted to discussions, flowing out of the addresses and the general themes. In these discussions, the
delegates will think together on the problems which are situated, surrounded by three beautiful mountains.

In connection with the school is an orphanage, known as Grandfather's Orphanage because of its situation almost in the shadow
of Grandfather's Mountain. The children there are bright and they work hard, but they are at a disadvantage due to
the lack of equipment of the orphanage and the school. Both are in urgent need of equipment and funds, since
there is no endowment fund from which to draw. The voluntary support of friends is depended upon entirely.

Captain Hearn told of the garden that each orphanage boy and girl has. He brought in several small features of
interest, such as his story of the champion cow-milker, who claims a record of forty-five seconds for extracting a gallon
of milk.

Many obstacles are working against Mr. Tufts, but he is carrying on the work with untiring zeal and determination. “He
deserves to be commended for the excellent spirit with which he has fought seemingly insurmountable odds,” said Hearn.

In emphasizing the great financial need of the school and orphanage, Captain Hearn suggested that each student ask his parents
to send part of their Thanksgiving offering to this work. The story of his recent visit was compelling and heartfelt.

Score: State 12, Davidson 0

Lassiter kicked to Davidson's 15-yard line, Shepherd returning 16 to the 31. Shepherd ploughed through left tackle for 5 yards.
Two drives by Black made it first down on the 44-yard line. Three plays gained 5 yards and Shepherd punted
31 yards to Sprague, who returned 5 to the 25-yard line. Lassiter made 7 yards on two plays. Johnston made
1 over the line. Elms punted 36 yards. Davidson failed to gain on three plays and Shepherd punted 46 yards
out of bounds on State's 20-yard line. Lassiter made 4 on a fake. Johnston made 5 on the same play.
Lassiter failed to gain and Elms punted to midfield. Black hit right guard for 2 yards. Running from spread formation,
Shepherd circled right end for 12 yards and first down on the 37-yard line. Three plays netted 3 yards. Shepherd's
place kick from the 34-yard line failed. State's ball on the 20-yard line. After three plays, Elms punted out of
bounds on his own 32-yard line. Hendrix was smothered before he could get started, losing 5 yards. A pass, Hendrix
to Black, netted 15 yards and a first down on the 17-yard line. Two line plays netted 3 yards. Quarter
up. Score: State 0, Davidson 0.

Hunt lost 2 yards around left end as the quarter opened. Shepherd's place kick failed. State's ball on the 20-yard
line. Holland made 6.on three plunges. Elms punted 29 yards to Davidson's 45-yard line. Shepherd failed at guard. Davidson was
penalized 15 yards for holding. Black and Hunt made four yards. Shepherd punted 31 yards to Johnston who returned 19
yards. Johnston made 13 yards on two tackle plays for a first down on Davidson's 33-yard line. Davidson was penalized
5 yards for offside. A pass, Lassiter to Elms, netted 17 yards and a first down on the 11-yard line.
Two line bucks and a pass, Lassiter to Elms, for 5 yards put the ball on the 4-yard line. Holland
went over for a touchdown. Lassiter’s drop kick failed. State 6, Davidson 0. Lassiter kicked to the 10-yard line to
Shepherd who returned 24 yards. Covington made 3 yards on two end runs. Black hit left guard for 3 yards.
Shepherd punted 25 yards to Sprague who returned 5 yards.

"Obstacles,” said Captain J. STITT WILSON (Continued from page 1) in Oxford, England, doing special research work. He was formerly
mayor of Berkeley, California. He is a well-known American exponent of workable ideas about industry, politics, and religion. He speaks
from experience. “The California League for Ratification of the Peace Treaty and the League of Nations selected Mr. Wilson as
the one man qualified to answer Senator Johnson in his attack upon the League."

Score:

Johnson made 1 yard over right tackle. A pass, Elms to Lassiter, netted 13 yards. A pass, Lassiter to Elms,
netted 2 yards. Lassiter hit center for 4 yards. Lassiter shot Davidson recovered on Davidson's 34-yard line. Johnston and Lassiter
made first down on two plays. Davidson offside, making it first down on Davidson's 47-yard line. Holland, Johnston, and Lassiter
smashed through for another first down. Holland hit tackle twice for 4 yards. Lassiter passed to Elms for 6 yards
and a first down on the 26-yard line. Holland carried it to the 14-yard line on two smashes. Lassiter hit
the line for 2 yards. Sprague made 2 yards on a delayed buck, the only time he carried the ball
during the entire game. A pass hit the goal posts. Davidson's ball on the 20-yard line. Shepherd punted to Johnston
on the 45-yard line and Faison downed him in his tracks. Three plays failed to gain and Elms punted 15
yards out of bounds. Shepherd hit right tackle for 4 yards. Black made first down on two rushes. Black hit
the line for two yards. Two short passes to Black and Shepherd netted 7 yards. Black made it first down
on the 38-yard line. Hendrix made 2 yards around end as the period ended. Score: State 12, Davidson 0.

Failing to gain, Shepherd punted out of bounds on State’s 2-yard line. Elms punted 23 yards to Shepherd who returned
to the 16-yard line. Hendrix circled end for 6 yards. Black made first down on the 5-yard line on three
rushes. The State defense stiffened and the fourth down found the ball on the 1-yard line. State was offside on
the next play. Then Shepherd hit the line and the ball went over on the 1-foot line. A pass from
behind the goal line failed. Elms punted to the 37-yard line. Holland intercepted a Davidson pass on his 39-yard mark.
Elms punted to Covington who returned 15 to midfield. A pass failed. Hendrix shot a pass to Cox for 11
yards and a first down. Covington received a 15-yard pass from Hendrix and ran 25 yards for a touchdown. The
try for point failed. Score: State 12, Davidson 6. Shepherd kicked to Shuford who returned 28 yards to his own
33-yard line. Four line plays gave State a first down. Johnston hit the line for 13 yards. Three plays failed
and Elms punted to Davidson’s 10-yard line. Covington made 2 over tackle. Shuford intercepted a pass on the 28-yard line.
A line play failed as the game ended. Score: State 12, Davidson 6.

The line-up and summary follow:
Holland
Lassiter
State
Davidson

Scoring: Touchdowns, Holland (State) 2; Covington (Davidson). Substitutions: N. C. State: White for Hendricks; C. Shuford for Holland. Davidson: Sappenfield
for Hendrix; Hodgin for Summers; Covington for Sappenfield; Baker for Davis; Vance for Boggs; Davis for Baker; Lindamood for Hodgin;
Hendrix for Hunt; Cox for Fields; Baker for Davis; Buck for Covington. Officials: Referee, Major, Auburn. Umpire, Izard, Washington and
Lee. Head-linesman, Hodgson, V. P. I. Attendance, 4,000. Time of quarters, 14 minutes each.

PRESIDENT MARTIN, SPEAKER AT MEETING IN CHARLOTTE (Continued from page 1)

As such, a sinner is lost and the words of the prophet, “The soul that sinneth, it shall die,” stare
the sinful man in the face. Without true and real repentance no man has faith said Dr. Martin, at the
same time calling faith the “bedrock of salvation” and saying that there is only One in whom a person can
have perfect faith. “There is no name given by which we can be saved but that of Jesus Christ. Faith
in God doesn’t save. He is the Father, our creator and judge and has ordained it so that He Himself
is not the Savior. The Holy Spirit is not the Savior, it is our guide. It is Jesus Christ, the
son of God who is our only Savior. Christ is our all-sufficient, all-efficient Savior. There must be more than the
intellectual acceptance of Christ as man’s Savior,” said Dr. Martin, quoting the Bible “By their fruits shall ye know them.”
The Charlotte Observer is reporting the meeting, indicates plainly that Dr. Martin's speech was most favorably received and thoroughly enjoyed.

The calibre of the man who will address the student body next Friday. It would be impossible to present the
statements of the many authorities all of whom unite in praising him. “However, the following extracts will serve as examples
of their eulogistic remarks: Dean Bechtel, Tulane University, New Orleans: “Upon those who were present and had the opportunity of
hearing these forceful talks, a tremendous impression was made. Mr. Wilson's earnest and forceful presentation of the social message in
eloquent language cannot fail to bear remarkable fruit in its effect upon students. I should very much like to have
him return to Tulane.” President Bizzel, A. & M. College of Texas: “He is one of the most impelling and
convincing speakers that has ever spoken to our student body. He greatly interested our people.” Extracts from a letter signed
by thirteen leaders of the Cornell University Christian Association: “We owe you a very large debt of gratitude here at
Cornell.... You have been like one of our members all this week and like an elder brother to us, leading
out our thought and courage into the larger issues of the Christian social order.... We feel that you have deepened
the solidarity of men of good will here in the University and that instead of a few scattered individuals we
now have the very real beginning of a college group which will maintain their interest and morale in the cause
of the oppressed everywhere.”

It is possible that another lecture Friday morning may be arranged, according to a statement made by Secretary Williams, who
is in charge of Mr. Wilson’s visit. Even if he does not speak in the morning, the evening talk is
assured and will be delivered at 7:30 o'clock, in Shearer Hall.

“What a difference just a few cents make! - FATIMA”
