Basket-Ball Wrestling Boxing LET’S GO! THE DAVIDSONIAN All Back Hard At It FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Vol. X DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 11, 1923 No. 13

NEW BOARD FACES ACID TEST OF THREE MONTHS DURATION

Eyes of Student Body Are Focused on the Men Who Make Up Personnel of New Organization

BODY WORKS ACTIVELY

For First Time in History of College Campus is Free From Aged Custom—Hazing

The Board of Control is functioning. Many and varied have been the prophecies and dark foreshadowings as to the success of the new undertaking, and it is with a good bit of surprise that these harbingers of gloom must be noting the business-like way in which the new institution moves along. Hazing has been entirely eliminated, and Davidson now steps into the ranks of those who realize that the move just taken is one that eventually will be taken by all colleges. Without a doubt, it is one of the longest steps the Davidson student body has ever taken in such matters. Always there is the reactionary group in any organization, and it is from these that the criticisms as to the impossibility of its success have come. It is hard to break away from old customs established through usage and it sometimes takes an eagle eye to see farther than the immediate present and surroundings. Whenever there is a step taken anywhere that calls for something more than brute strength, or appeals to the very highest ideals of a man’s nature, it is natural that there be opposition. At first, before the idea was explained, practically all the student body opposed it, but when the vote came, it passed. The court, obviously, cannot continue to function without the support and co-operation of every man in the student body, not merely in the matter of reporting Freshmen, for jibing is but the effect, the cause of which must be removed if the remedy is to be lasting. When due consideration is given, it will be realized that upperclassmen have just about as much to do with this as the Freshmen. Half of the jibing done is forced by upperclassmen. It is not natural that a Freshman should make any attempt to anger or make fun of the old men, and when the old men realize this the difference can be seen. Whenever there is a case of uncalled-for self-importance on the part of a Freshman, the Court of Control can, and is, ably handling them. Any member of the court is willing and ready at all times to discuss a case with any member of the student body, and when necessary, to take action. Perhaps, as time passes, the necessity of such a court as this will even be removed, but today it is very much present because of the public opinion of the student bodies of (Continued on page 8)

D. MINSTREL CAST WILL TOUR THE CAROLINAS AND GEORGIA

Eight Performances Scheduled for Wildcat Stage Artists

The faculty has given the Wildcat Minstrels a five-day leave of absence for a proposed trip through South Carolina and Georgia. The trip is to be made during February or March. Plans as yet are incomplete, but the following dates will most likely be made: Charlotte, Spartanburg, Greenville, Gainesville, Atlanta, and Decatur. In Spartanburg, Greenville, Gainesville, and Decatur, performances will be given at Converse, G. W. C., Brenau, and Agnes Scott, respectively. For several years Davidson has not played before an Agnes Scott audience, but negotiations with officers of that college are (Continued on Page 8)

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE

Session 1922-23 FIRST SEMESTER

JUNIOR AND FRESHMEN SOPHOMORE SENIOR

JAN. 20 A. M. No Classes No Classes No Classes Sat. 20 Math. 3 and 4 P. M. Math. 1 Math. 2 Polit. Sc. 2 and Church History

JAN. 23 A. M. French 1 French 2 French 3 and Philosophy Tues. 23 P. M. Latin 1 Latin 2 Law and Education

JAN. 24 A. M. Biology 1 Biology 2 Biology 3 and 4 Wed. 24 P. M. R. 0, 7, C. 2 R. 0, 7, C. 3 and 4 Accounting

JAN. 25 A. M. Phys. and Hygiene Psychology 1 and 2 Thurs. 25 P. M. Economics 1, 2, 3

JAN. 26 A. M. Chemistry 1 Chemistry 2 Chemistry 3, 5, 6 Fri. 26 P. M. English 1 English 2 English 3 and 4

JAN. 27 A. M. History 1 History 2 and Sat. 27 P. M. German 1 German 2 German 3 Latin Greek 1 Greek 2 Greek 3, 5 and 6

JAN. 30 A. M. Public Speaking Polit. Sc. 1, Public Speaking Tues. 30 Physics 2, 3 and 4 P. M. Physics 1

JAN. 31 A. M. Spanish 1, Spanish 2 Spanish 3 and 4 Wed. 31 P. M. Applied Math. 1 and 2 Bible 1 Bible 2 Astronomy, Geology

JUNIOR CLASS ENDEAVORING TO SELECT STANDARD RING

Leading Jewelers of Country to Submit Designs and Bids

The Junior Class together with the college authorities, is taking steps to secure a standard college ring. The leading concerns of the country have been written to and all designs and bids are to be in the hands of the committee by January 16th. At this date a design will be made by them. Following this the ring will be voted on by the Junior and Sophomore classes and thereby the student body. If adopted, this ring will be used by all future classes. The two main ideas which the committee have been working on are (1) a ring with a pure stone in the middle; and (2) a solid gold ring with the college seal in the center. An interesting and novel feature that will be embodied in either design is the figure of a Wildcat on both sides together with the class numerals. Any ring that is selected will be of heavier weight than the one adopted by last year’s class. The faculty of the college have become interested in the matter and Mr. Jackson has been appointed as a member of the committee. This will guarantee the permanency of any ring which maybe selected. The larger concerns of the country dealing in college jewelry are already at work upon the design which will be in the hands of DAVIDSON LOSES SERVICES OF GREY AS ATHLETIC HEAD Coach Grey Resigns Position in Order to Enter Business SUCCESSOR UNNAMED Inestimable Service to Athletic Association Rendered by Coach

The resignation of Coach Grey as Athletic Director and head coach at Davidson came somewhat in the nature of a surprise when it was announced to the student body shortly before the Christmas holidays. The resignation will take effect at the end of the school term. Bascom Sorrells, as president of the “D” Club, made the announcement and in a few words stated the service that Coach Grey had rendered to the Athletic Association during his stay here. A vote of confidence was immediately passed by the students and a resolution adopted, unanimously, to the effect that there was to be no let-up in the support given to Coach Grey during the time that he will remain with us.

Previous to the announcement to the student body, Coach Grey had declared to the “D” men his intention of resigning. At that time he stated that he had never seriously considered making coaching a life work and thought it best to start into some other line of work before it was too late. There are (Continued on Page 8)

WASHINGTON AND LEE TAKES INITIAL DEBATE OF SEASON Ogden, Gamble and Wharton Represent Davidson

The Davidson College debating team lost in its engagement with Washington and Lee University at Lexington, Virginia, on December 16th, by a three to nothing decision. The Wildcat representatives put up a scrappy fight and the unanimous decision against them cannot detract from the strength of their arguments. It was a hard decision for the judges to render because of the close relative value of the two sides. A more forceful argument throughout, one dealing with facts that come close home to every man, and the negative of a question that makes little appeal to most Americans, were the decisive points that turned the tide for the Virginians.

D. H. Ogden, of Davidson, opened the debate by maintaining that the U.S. Government should cancel the loans made to her European allies since April 6, 1917, for the reason that the allies can’t pay and that it would be economically disastrous for the U.S. to accept payment were they in a position to pay. In closing the main speeches of the affirmative, W. A. Gamble presented the two additional points that the U.S. should not ask for repayment of these loans that were used in a common cause and that cancellation of them would promote world peace. All four points were brought out forcibly.

LOOK INTO FUTURE REVEALS BRILLIANT PROSPECTS AHEAD 1923 Offers Great Possibilities for Wildcat Athletics Despite Vacancies on Coaching Staff SCHEDULES ARRANGED Football, Basketball, Baseball, Track, Tennis and Wrestling Promising

Conditions in the Wildcats’ lair at the opening of the calendar year, 1923, are unsettled. Coach Grey's resignation, which takes effect in June, leaves the coaching staff as a matter of conjecture. Negotiations for a coach are under way, but as yet nothing definite can be announced. The alumni council is making the strongest efforts to secure a competent man for the place and the appointment of a successor to Coach Grey is only a matter of time.

Although the year 1922 was not as successful as could be wished from an athletic standpoint, the outlook for 1923 is promising. 1922 started off with a rush when the basketball quint won 10 out of 13 starts, but the baseball season was a 50-50 affair and the track team failed to win a meet. In the minor sports, the wrestling team was nosed out by Trinity, but the tennis team won state honors in both singles and doubles. With five letter men back in both basketball and baseball, and seven in track, and 10 in football, the prospects for 1923 seem especially good. Basketball is in the limelight and the big squad is the most promising which has ever been seen on the floor at Davidson.

One pleasing feature is the increased interest taken in minor sports. Wrestling, tennis and golf have many followers and schedules are being arranged with good trips. Two forms of athletics which do not receive the proper consideration are boxing and gymnasium work. There has never been a boxing team at the college and few facilities are offered for its pursuit. In former years the college boasted a gym team, but in recent years this has passed out of existence. The necessity for these sports is felt keenly and some move should be taken toward their revival.

Whatever the solution of the coaching problem, the Wildcats of '23 are out to atone for past deficiencies and with good material and excellent spirit will give their all to uphold the reputation of Davidson teams throughout the State and South.

FOOTBALL

At a recent meeting of the student body, A. M. Hillhouse was elected manager for the season of 1923. The schedule which he has arranged for the coming season comprises 10 games with the best teams in the (Continued on Page 5)

GAMMA OF NORTH CAROLINA CHAPTER PHI BETA KAPPA Date of Installation Not Yet Definitely Fixed

After a short time, in comparison to a good many other colleges and universities which have petitioned Phi Beta Kappa for many years, Davidson College has been informed that their charter has been signed by Doctor Thwing, president of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, and also president of Western Reserve University. Doctor Vorhees, secretary of the United Chapters, has sent the information that the exact date of the installation has not yet been fixed, but it is hoped that the chapter will be installed some time in February. Invitations have been sent out to 31 alumni students, who are to be elected within a (Continued on Page 8) (Continued on Page 4)