THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1923

Carolina 14 Davidson—
Davidson 3 12 First Downs
Carolina 14 Trinity—
Trinity 6 2 First Downs

Juniors and Seniors Win Week’s Games
Eliminating Fresh and Sophs from Race
Upperclassmen Leading in Race for Class Flag
Fresh and Sophs Snowed Under by Avalanche of Field and Foul Goals

For the second time this year, the Seniors defeated the Sophs in a slow but interesting game by the score
of 26 to 13. The Sophs gave the Seniors a hard scrap to start things off with, but the Seniors
drew away from them so fast in the latter part of the game the Sophs didn’t have a look in.
Tom Staley made a good referee and there was much approval shown by the spectators concerning his ability as a
judge.

The game opened with both sides showing fight, and the Sophs proceeded to get revenge for their former defeat at
the hands of the Seniors. But, their outburst was met by the Seniors and no one was able to score
in the first five minutes of play. Finally, the Senior Captain got over-anxious and Coltrane shot a foul, giving the
Sophs the first point of the game. This was followed closely by a field goal by Cooke, giving the Sophs
a three-point margin. McBryde for the Seniors quickly followed this by another field goal and evened things up. Huie of
the Sophs got through the Seniors' guard and looped one through the hoops and the score fell back on the
Sophs' side. At this juncture, Boushee and Elkins shot two and the Seniors led. The Sophs scored only one more
that half and that was by Cooke. The score stood 10 to 7 at the end of the half in
the Seniors' favor. This half was characterized by spurts of good and bad playing intermixed. The Seniors had a bare
margin in this half but the Sophs gave them a close race.

The Seniors began the second half with a rush and scored 12 points before the Sophs could get started. As
a result, the Sophs never threatened but could only hold the score down. Elkins and Boushee did most of the
shooting, getting eleven points between them.

The playing of every man on the Soph team was on a par although Johnny Cooke did a good deal
to keep the Seniors’ score down. The playing of McBryde was the best for the Seniors.

Senior-Soph Game
The Sophs sent in reserves in a vain effort to stem the tide, while the Seniors kept right on shooting.

Summary of Soph-Senior Game:
Seniors (26) Sophs (13)
Boushee (10) Coltrane (3) F
Elkins (9) Cooke (4) F
McBryde (7) Huie (6) G
Parker G
Lawson G

Substitutes:
Sophs: Hovis, Oden, Blue, Montgomery
Seniors: Story for Boushee

Junior-Fresh Game
In a fast and furious game, the Juniors defeated the Fresh by the score of 27 to 14. From the
outset, there was no doubt as to the outcome, the Juniors having everything their own way. Probably one reason for
the poor showing of the Fresh was that their coach had left the hill and there was no one to
guide their destinations. There were a good many fouls on the part of the Fresh in their over-anxiety to guard
the Juniors and so the Juniors had at least ten free shots. The crowd was small and hence the pep
died down after the first few minutes and the game slowed up accordingly.

The Juniors started things off with a bang and rolled up 13 points in the first half. Lindley got the
first goal coming within a few seconds after the ball had been tossed up for the first time. The Fresh
evened things up and before five minutes had elapsed the score stood 9 to 4 in the Juniors' favor. Both
sides passed well, each side having a different passing system altogether and yet each seemed to be able to fathom
the other's game. The reason the Juniors were able to score more points was because they could break up their
opponent's passing better than the Fresh could break up theirs. The score stood 13 to 5 at the end of
the half.

The second half was a walk-away. The Juniors came within one point of tying the score and for a while
they had the score tripled but a last-minute rally by the Fresh gave them five points and prevented the score
from being tied. The Juniors clearly had the upper hand in this and in the last five minutes their scrub
team, with the exception of Captain Morrison, played. McNair, Morrison, and Lindley did all of the scoring for the Juniors,
each getting two field goals apiece. The playing of Fawcette, the Fresh captain, was the high spot in the Freshman
work. He scored half of their points and broke up several Junior passes labeled two points each. Kiser, at guard,
also played a good game. For the Juniors, Morrison was the man who did the best work. His dribbles were
good for two points and he hardly ever failed to go through the basket. Pat McNair, securing ten points, led
both teams in the scoring department.

The score:
Juniors (27) Fresh (14)
Morrison (9) Anderson (2) F
Lindley (8) Beall F

CLASS BASKETBALL STANDING
W. L. Pct.
Seniors 3 0 1000
Juniors 2 1 667
Fresh 2 2 500
Sophs 0 4 000

Yard Lines
By W. F. Galloway

A great game, team. We are proud of you. The Wildcats out-fought Carolina, out-gained Carolina, out-passed Carolina, and out-punted Carolina,
but the Tarheels outscored Davidson. Third verse. Same song. Hard luck once more. The Raleigh News and Observer remarks that
“the Wildcats showed more kinds..."of football than Carolina had ever heard of.” We're going down right away to take down
Jimmy Hendrix’s tablet in the hard luck ward. Jimmy played the game of his life Saturday. Carolina’s great passing system
seemed to have passed out. The Tarheels didn’t work a pass Saturday. A broken leg on the kick-off was enough
to demoralize any team, but it made the Wildcats dig in and fight all the harder. Carolina gave a yell
for the Wildcats when “Popsy” footed the old ball for those three points. Can the Tarheels beat the Wildcats when
it comes to courtesy? Three points can look like a million sometimes. A good title for the game Saturday would
be “Luck and Pluck.” Sounds just like Horatio Alger. Of course, the Wildcats didn’t have the luck. The Wildcats made
Carolina’s “Big Team” look mighty little at times.

Faison
Hendrix
Boggs
Vance
Black
Tilson
Dearmon
Fields
Lindamood
Davis
Hunt
Younger
Wells
Hodgin
Laird
Shepherd
Cox
Baker
Covington
Summers

We imagine there are 2000 Carolina students right now wondering what Davidson would have done if all the Cats were
in condition. We sometimes wonder a little ourselves. We had a little argument with a neighbor at the Press Convention
banquet last week.

McNair (10)
C. Koein guesses:
Somes
Bases
Kiser
G. Price
Winn (2)
G.

Substitutes: Juniors; Brice, Patrick, Trotter, Wharten. Fresh: Goover (5), Simpson, Kiser.

Wildcats Meet Trinity Eleven on Wearn Field
Students Will Go to Charlotte—Annual Turkey Day Mix-up Closes Season

On Thanksgiving Day, Trinity will draw up her minions on Wearn Field in Charlotte for the annual Turkey Day mix-up.
The Davidson Wildcats will be on hand also, with claws sharpened for the test of superiority. The dope box looks
about equal, though there is a possible margin in Trinity's favor on account of the percentage of games in the
state. Trinity opened the season like a regular scoring machine. Guilford and Randolph-Macon went down in rapid succession, 67-0 and
54-0, before the onslaught of the Methodists. Trinity stock soared high. But she came to blows with the Tar Heels
the next week and emerged with the scars of battle but not of victory. Carolina won 12-6 and Methodist stock
was par again. Trinity lost the next two games to two heavy Virginia teams, William and Mary defeated her 21-0,
and Virginia 33-0. She came back in the next game with a 39-0 victory over Elon and then dropped the
next to Wake Forest 6-16. Then Elon came back and for the first half of the game with Wake Forest
it seemed that Trinity would still have a chance at second honors. But a Baptist touchdown and a field goal
crushed their hope and Wake Forest defeated Elon by the narrow margin of 9-6.

On the other hand, the Wildcats, while they have suffered quite a few setbacks, have lost to no team that
Trinity has defeated. Carolina defeated Davidson 14-3 and Trinity 14-6, Wake Forest won from Davidson 7-0 and from Trinity 16-6.
So against these two teams, Davidson and Trinity are even by comparative score. In the clashes of the two teams
with Elon, Trinity came out in the lead by 20 points. But Davidson played Elon as a tryout game at
the first of the season, while Trinity was at the top of her mid-season form when she walloped the Christians.
The odds are even. The stake is victory in the last game of the season. Methodist against Presbyterian, who has
the better team?

After we had told him how much (?) we thought of Trinity's chances of beating the Wildcats, we found out
that he was the Trinity Captain. Trinity is planning to come to Charlotte in full force and the strange thing
about it is that some of them think they are going to win.

We had a card from Franklin Fricker, the ex-Wildcat track stud. Franklin said it was all bull about the private
trainer. He must have forgotten that this column used to be “Bill’s Bull.” That reminds us that Fricker has beaten
Harvard and Princeton since we last went to press. McBryde dropped over to the room the other day to bull
about the time he used to run Fricker ragged. You wouldn't think it now to look at “Mac.”

Georgia vanishes from the list of undefeated Southern teams by a rising vote, 35-7. Tech looks pretty sick after her
third tied game, and Florida isn't playing representative teams. Alabama, Vandy, and Center form the big three to date, with
Alabama perhaps the weaker of the three. The championships in some of the nearby states are lining up as follows:
North Carolina—U. N. C.
South Carolina—Furman and Clemson.
Virginia—V. M. I. and W. & L.
Georgia—Georgia and Ga. Tech.
Florida—University of Florida.
Alabama—University of Alabama.
Tennessee—Vandy.

Old “Bill” Harvard turned over in his grave again when Brown poked the Crimson. The season has been an uneasy
one for the old boy.

We found out one interesting thing at the Press Convention, i.e., that in polite circles this sort of bull is
called “paragraphics.” Which all goes to show that you don’t have to know what you are doing to get by
with it.

The individual gains on the Chapel Hill fracas show: Wells, 77; Hendrix, 52; Black, 42; Buck, 33; Sappenfield, 23; Hunt,
18; Davis, 10; Covington, 6.

We'll hand it to the Carolinians. They play a real sportsman’s game. Their spirit is good. Their treatment of a
visiting team is gooder. Their regard for the Wildcats is gooderest.

Saturday will see some of the big teams resting for the Thanksgiving Day classics but some of them will be
plugging away:
At Montgomery, Ala—Alabama 7, Georgia 0.
At Louisville, Ky.—Center 24, W. & L. 3.
At Jacksonville, Fla.—Florida 14, Miss. A. & M. 7.
At Raleigh, N. C.—Wake Forest 7, N. C. State 7.
At Greenville, S. C.—Furman 34, Erskine 0.
At Durham, N. C.—Trinity 20, Newberry 6.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL

Short, three-button, half-belted, ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have
it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents
