THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 5, 1923

Dr. Walter L. Lingle, ’92, president of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, and a professor at Union Theological
Seminary, is now on the editorial staff of “The Southern Presbyterian.”

Jack Hunter, ex-’22, who is now a book-keeper in the Bank of Dillon, S. C., was in a serious automobile
accident last Thursday when the high-powered machine in which he was riding left the road and collided with a large
pine tree at one side. The driver of the car was seriously injured, but fortunately Jack escaped with only a
gash on the arm.

Norman Richards, ex-’19, is working with the highway commission of York County, S. C.

Rev. F. J. Hay, ‘15, has recently accepted the pastorate of the First Presbyterian Church, of Dillon, S. C. Rev.
and Mrs. Hay, who was formerly Miss Mildred Johnston, of Davidson, have taken up their residence in Dillon.

Rev. R. C. Long, ’14, has resigned the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church of Gastonia in order to accept a
position with the Stewardship Committee of the Southern Presbyterian Church. In his new field, Rev. Mr. Long has special work
with the young people’s department and has moved to Chattanooga, Tenn. to be in a better position to handle that
work.

Taylor Stukes, ’11, is practicing law in Manning, S. C. During the past summer Mr. Stukes was married to Miss
Sauls of that town.

Rev. P. D. Patrick, ‘15, is now pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Effingham, S. C.

Among the Americans sailing last Saturday on the Cunard liner Albania for England, were several men who received their preparatory
education at Davidson and who are now on their way to attend Oxford University during the approaching scholastic term. There
were 25 students sailing at that time, these being in addition to seven others who sailed at an earlier date.
J. M. Richards, '22, a former Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian and otherwise connected with the activities of the college during
the time which he attended it, is probably the best known one of the voyagers to the present student body.
Mr. Richards is a son of Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of the Davidson Presbyterian Church, whom he visited just
before making his trip to New York, from whence his boat sailed.

Two other Davidson men are in the company of Rhodes representatives. Houston White, ’21, who was a student at Princeton
last year, enters Oxford for a year’s work toward a Ph. D. degree. S. T. McCloy, ’18, takes his third
year of work as a Rhodes scholar from the state of Arkansas. “Ducky,” as he was known to his friends,
spent the last year in the States taking a course at Union Theological Seminary before continuing his studies in England.

May 11, 1923 marked the death of one of Davidson’s most loved alumni. This man was John Edwin Carter of
the class of nineteen-fifteen and also a graduate of the Law School at the University of North Carolina. Mr. Carter
was born in Mount Airy, N. C., on June 26, 1893. He entered Davidson with the class of ‘15, and

---

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

---

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

---

NONE TOO SMALL
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, V.-Pres. and Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Asst. Cashier and Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus Etc., Over $1,100,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

---

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
201 North Tryon St.

---

THEATRE TICKETSAfter graduation, he served with the American Expeditionary Forces as a lieutenant, returning to America with a record for
which he is to be admired. After being released, he took up the profession of law, for which he had
prepared himself while in college, and was associated with his father in this practice. Some eight months before his death,
he was married to Miss Anne Fulton, and peace and happiness was theirs from that time until the end came,
ending a spell of influenza.

All who came into contact with Edwin Carter were impressed by his high sense of honor, his integrity, and his
true devotion to duty. Davidson College hears with sadness the passing of so good a man, and joins his family
and large circle of friends in mourning his death.

T. L. Fraser, ‘22, visited Davidson through two days of last week, while en route to Union where he will
continue his study for the ministry at Theological Seminary.

’Gene “Piccolo” Booth was on the Hill during the first part of the past week, and witnessed the Davidson-Elon game
in Cornelius. “Piccolo” Booth is now occupying an important position with the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., of Winston-Salem.

STUDENT BODY EXTENDS SYMPATHY

Miss Margaret Ann Scott, sister of Walter Scott, ex-’26, died at the St. Peters Hospital in Charlotte, at about 2
o'clock on Saturday, September 20th. Miss Scott was a member of the Junior class in the Central High School, was
decidedly one of the most popular and most loved girls in Charlotte, and her loss will be truly felt among
her bereaved friends and loved ones.

On the same day, Mrs. Keerans, mother of J. Willard Keerans, of the Freshman class, passed away in Charlotte. Mrs.
Keerans lived a wonderful life as a mother and as a friend, and she leaves a vacancy that will be
long felt. The sincere sympathies of the student body are extended to Scott and Keerans.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS DR. PORTER

The regular meeting of the Ministerial Band was held Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall. The speaker, Dr. W. L. Porter,
presented an interesting talk on the subject "Thoroughly Furnished." Dr. Porter said: “In contemplating the building of my new house,
I came to think of the likeness of a thoroughly furnished man.” In his speech, he showed how a man,
like a house, was a shell if not properly furnished. He compared the living room to the social side of
man, the kitchen to his physical life, the study room to his mental life, the bath, where the body is
cleansed, to the devotional side of man, whereby he is able to clean his heart. The sacrificial side of man
was likened to the furnace room of a house which sent warmth to the whole house. The attic was represented
as the occasional side of life. Everything is put there, which is old and worn out, but which can be
used if necessary. Dr. Porter said, “This the candidate for the ministry especially needs, for it is in this store-room
of his house, that he is able to use on all occasions.” An appeal was made to the ministerial students
to furnish themselves like a properly furnished house.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Under The Strand, BROADWAY Management
Mon. - Tues. - Wed. - Thur.
The Laugh Hit of the Decade
“POTASH and PERLMUTTER”
with BARNEY BERNARD and ALEX CARR

Thursday and Friday
A Sizzling Hot Baseball Story
“TRIFLING WITH HONOR”

Rain Insurance For Every Occasion
whether held indoors or outside
Phone or write
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Insurance Department
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Our advertisers are here with the goods
Patronize them
