THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

Dear Question Box:
Was the expression, “I'll bite,” that I hear Okey Allison saying all the time, originated at Davidson?
E. P. O'Connor.

Dear Ed.:
We think not. If we recollect rightly, it was the same thing that the Whale said to Jonah, that Eve
said to the apple, that the Wolf said to Little Red Riding Hood, and the same as the viper said
to Cleopatra.
Your Uncle Bud.

This department has lately been installed for the information of all the students. It is their privilege to ask any
question, and if we can’t answer it, we'll find one who can. Several interesting queries in this week's lot.

Dear Q. B.:
I haven't had much luck lately in hunting rabbits. They won't stay still long enough for me to hit them.
What can I do?
Yours truly, Abe Kugler.

Dear Mr. Kugler:
We suggest that you paint a black spot on the end of a log. The rabbits will think that this
is a hollow log, run against it and dash their brains out. All you have to do is rake them
up. Another good method is to get under a brush pile with your gun and make a noise like a
turnip. Rabbits dearly love turnips and they will come running. You should get a lot of them this way.
The Question Box, Uncle Bud, Editor.

Note: Anyone desiring any questions answered concerning love, courtship, necking, Christmas shopping, or Einstein's theory, please send a stamped envelope
to Uncle Bud, care Davidsonian. He will answer your questions.

BARNES URGES PREPARATION FOR MINISTERIAL CANDIDATE

Speaking upon the theme, Practical Advice for Young Men Planning to Enter the Ministry, Rev. F. A. Barnes, pastor of
Shearer Chapel and Gildwood Presbyterian churches, gave some very valuable thoughts to the Ministerial Band in its regular meeting Sunday
afternoon. Mr. Barnes told of the many things that the young candidates should begin now, saying that if they neglected
or put off, there would come a time when they would be unable to accomplish them. He advised them to
begin meeting people and to practice remembering both their faces and names, to keep an index of the incidents, examples,
and happenings which will be useful to them later on. They should improve their prayer life, both private and public.
And lastly, he emphasized a deeper study of the Bible, advising them to memorize verses, chapters, and even books of
the Scriptures. He said, “Store these in your minds while young for later on you will not be able to
do so."

The meeting was somewhat enlivened by the Davidson Preachers’ Quartet which sang It Came Upon a Midnight Clear especially well.
This quartet is composed of Piggy Martin, Don Stewart, John and Jim Caligan. In the absence of the president of
the Ministerial Band, D. E. Walthall, the meeting was presided over by A. N. Moffett, vice-president.

Dear Question Box:
I have trouble finding my golf balls when I knock them any distance. What can I do to remedy this?
Johnnie Bachman.

Dear Mr. Bachman:
A good plan is to rub a little asafoetida on the ball and with a little practice you will be
able to run them down no matter where they are. Another good way is to tie an end of a
string to the ball and let the string unwind as the ball travels. All you have to do is follow
the string.
Q. B.

Dear Uncle:
Which is the better vehicle in which to take my girl riding, a car, or a buggy?
A. Messerole Hurd.

Dear Mr. Hurd:
We are not sure about the riding qualities of these vehicles, but one can tie the lines to the dashboard
in the buggy.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Mr. Question Box:
Why do men always look around when women get on the street cars?
Your friend, Tom S. Baker.

Dear Innocent Tommie:
Bless your little heart. Probably they want to tell the time by the clocks on their hose.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Sir:
What is the proper definition of ice?
Isadore Thames.

Dear Mr. Thames:
Ice is water that’s too cold to give a darn.
Your Uncle Buddy.

What 10 words best describe the new cap? As you see, the Williams’ Shaving Cream Cap is hinged on and
can’t get lost. Tell us how it helps you. Do you find it a time-saver? Do you, because of it,
find greater satisfaction in quick-working Williams’ lather, so gently beneficial to your skin? Read our offer; then write us a
winning slogan.

Our prize offer
For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams’ Hinged Cap, we offer the
following prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th
prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy,
the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight, March 14th, 1924. Winners will
be announced as soon thereafter as possible. You may submit any number of slogans but write on one side of
the paper only, putting name, address, college, and class at the top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor,
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

LIBRARY NEWS
Eight Dramas of Calderon will be

Plots and Personalities, by Edwin E. Slosson and June E. Downey, leads the group of new books recently obtained by
the Union Library. “Queerest book ever published” is the way one critic describes it. Another epitomizes its contents in his
statement: “A fascinating book about fiction-making; not only the sort of stories that are published in magazines and books, but
such activities of the imagination as day-dreaming, plain lying, gossiping, creating a companion to talk to, etc. It is humor,
philosophy, what not; it is one of the most interesting books ever published, and one of the queerest.”

Another of the group, Some Makers of American Literature, is from the pen of the popular literary critic, William Lyons
Phelps. The title gives the gist of the book. Accurate estimates of our greatest literary men are embodied in Professor
Phelps’ work. The Man the World and the Man of God are dramatically contrasted in the study of Franklin and
Jonathan Edwards; James Fenimore Cooper, the Nathaniel

On Saturday night the Reporters’ Club initiated the following men: D. G. Wilson, J. B. Thompson, J. M. Garrison, B.
U. Ratchford, A. H. Hollingsworth, and G. M. Morrow. After the initiation ceremony, all present enjoyed a feed which had
been prepared by D. G. Wilson and his assistants. After the feed, the meeting was called to order by the
president, A.M. Hurd, who gave a short history of the club. He reminded the initiates of the honor that had
been bestowed upon them and stated the purpose of the club. The initiates were called up before the president and
after avowing allegiance to the club were declared members of it. The president then read the constitution primarily for the
benefit of the new men. He urged members to be faithful in attendance upon the meetings and spoke briefly of
the Golden Quill which is bestowed for faithful service. Goes the staff, commended the club for its excellent work this
year. O. S. Allison, another staff member, spoke of the importance of the club and urged that the present members
of the club be faithful in order that they might secure a place on the staff before the end of
their collegiate career.

Romantic, and Hawthorne, the Puritan, are in separate chapters, while Webster and Lincoln are introduced to illustrate our political ideals.
Professor Phelps presents a fine appreciation of the wisdom and serenity of the American Philosopher, and praises that whole-souled American
mirth of Mark Twain in his concluding chapter on The American Humorist. The New by Camden bearing OVER FIFTY MEN
Archaeological Discoveries, M. Cobern, treats of their (Continued from page 1) the New Testament upon and I. Groover, H. O.
Sapp, J. C. Bernhardt, then the life and times of the Primitive R. R. Glenn, R. B. McConnell. Church. This
illuminating work, while Beta Theta Pi—J. A. King, A. S. Farnsworth, O. M. Farnsworth, W. H. Branch, R. L. Lincoln,
W. R. Sparrow, J. F. Pinkney, Perry L. D. Priest.

Kappa Alpha—R. L. Mitchell, J. H. McConnell, E. F. Bohannon, T. F. Anderson.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—T. W. Moose, A. A. Brand, V. S. Broyles, F. S. Wilkinson, W. S. Woods, C. C. Murchison,
A. T. Henderson, Zack Varnedoe, J. W. Keerans.

Phi Gamma Delta, G. B. Hope, C. A. Long, A. J. Hewlitt, W. A. Christian.

Phi Alpha Pi—L. Anderson, R. M. Menzies, H. G. Goodykoontz, W. A. Moss, F. E. Hudgins.

Delta Theta Chi—R. W. Edgerton, C. G. Allen, L. R. Winn, H. S. Frierson, J. C. Frierson, W. R. Story,
B. F. Karnest, J. L. Wroton.

During the fall, the following upperclassmen have been initiated by the various fraternities:

Pi Kappa Alpha—L. L. Elkins, P. C. McSwain.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—J. E. Singletary.

Beta Theta Pi—J. I. Gray.

Phi Alpha Pi—A. S. Anderson, I. L. Hollingsworth.

Delta Theta Chi—C. F. Monk, W. Cox, T. C. Barr, A. T. Rowe.

DAVIDSON TEAM MAY ENTER (Continued from page 1) While last year’s letter men will no doubt represent Davidson on the
hardwood floor most of the time this season, their best efforts will be necessary to hold positions from opposition which
is showing up well. Staley and Beall, last season’s goal-tossers, are finding the basket easily now and seem to have
the forward berths taken care of. Elkins is going to give somebody a run for his money, however, as was
evident in the class games. At center, Nappy Davis will tip off the sphere and captain the team. Nappy’s well-known
speed and fighting spirit will assure the Wildcats of a good pivot man. “Sook” Boggs and Flake Laird are holding
down the guard positions, while “Spec” McConnell is showing excellent form at the same end of the floor. Nick Sappenfield
and Morrison are also displaying real Wildcat fight in the abbreviated costumes. Mallory’s leg has not entirely healed as yet,
but he will no doubt be decidedly in the swim after a rest through the holidays. Training will begin in
earnest the first week in 1924, and it is expected to have a well-oiled machine with which to meet Charlotte
“Y” for the season’s starter.

This progressive age constantly discovers a better way of doing things --- always improves --- develops processes that excel. Our
tailors at Fashion Park, for instance, have developed the Turole tailoring treatment --- a method of making “soft” clothing possessing
all the fine lines that well-groomed men demand.

Misses Mary and Lizzy Young were called to Charlotte last Thursday by the death of their aunt, Mrs. Sally Young.
Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding and Prof. Erwin attended the funeral Friday.

There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things EFIRD’S Turole is pliant --- has easy, comfortable lines --- conforms to
the wearer’s action or inaction --- is thoroughly distinguished. The Turole tailoring treatment is available in a series of interesting
styles developments --- we’re making a special exhibit of them now.
