THEDAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON — Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Gov. Cameron Morrison

J. STITT WILSON, MAN OF AFFAIRS AND SCHOLAR, WINS ADMIRATION OF EVERY DAVIDSON STUDENT

Speaks At Celebration North Carolina’s Chief Executive Addresses Small Crowd

WEATHER CONDITIONS IDEAL

Founder’s Day, Armistice Day and Highway Dedication are Fittingly Celebrated

In His Plea For “The Rediscovery of the Religion of Jesus” Mr. Wilson Brought to His Hearers Questions Worthy of Thought. His Forceful Manner Attracted All Who Heard Him.

The Hon. J. Stitt Wilson, of California, a well-known American exponent of workable ideas about industry, politics, and religion, was secured by the Davidson College M. A. to lecture in Shearer Hall, Friday and Saturday, November 9-10. He brought messages of interest to every thinking man. As a sociologist, former city mayor, college graduate, lecturer and man of experience in the world of men today, Mr. Wilson in his forceful and direct manner brought to his hearers some thought-provoking questions and ideas worthy of careful consideration.

Gov. Cameron Morrison, in his address at the Davidson-Armistice Day-Davidson College Highway celebration, last Monday, spoke to a small audience of about 800 people, touching upon times of interest for their patriotic, governmental and historic note. He spoke of post-war conditions in the United States, the progress of the state in schools, asylums, etc., and its financial status. Governor Morrison was introduced by Hon. W. C. Wilkinson, of Charlotte, a member of the Highway Commission from the Fourth district. In introducing the governor, Mr. Wilkinson said that during his administration more had been accomplished in road-building, etc., than has been brought about in any similar period in its history. He added that the name of Governor Morrison would surely go down in the state’s history as its most progressive governor.

In beginning his speech, Governor Morrison said: “We are here today to celebrate three wonderful achievements in the history of this community, state and country: the foundation of Davidson College, Armistice Day, and the dedication of Davidson College Highway.” He said that the college's contribution to the state cannot be calculated, that it has not only trained many of the leaders in this state, but it has also trained many who have gone forth in other states of the South. “This is a fitting spot to celebrate Armistice Day, for it was here that our leader spent part of his boyhood days and got a part of his training.” With this statement, the governor proceeded into his subject, beginning with the signing of the armistice, and, through the League of Nations troubles, brought it down to the present time. He said that, following the time when Woodrow Wilson, a former Davidson boy, led us into war when we could no longer stay out, the weakness of republic overcame us, and “I am sorry to say that factionalism, (Continued on page 6)

N. C.C.P. A. Convenes As Guest of Trinity

Davidson Sends Five Representatives to Semi-Annual Meeting of Association

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association opens its conference in Durham, Thursday, November 15th, the guest of Trinity College. The meeting will continue for three days. Many representatives are present at this meeting, delegates coming from the various collegiate newspapers and magazines of the state. This meeting carries with it an unusual note of interest to the Davidson student body, since it was a former editor of the Davidsonian who was its first president. In addition to this, Liston D. Elkins, present Editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, has been the president for the past year. Among the other officers is R. R. Jones, of Davidson, who is anthology editor. Probably one of the largest delegations at the meeting today is that from Davidson College, having as representatives, Liston D. Elkins, Editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian; C. M. S. McIlwaine, managing editor; R. L. Price, business manager; W. F. Galloway, Editor-in-chief of the Davidson College Magazine, and A. M. Hurd, business manager of the same periodical. In addition to these, nine other college magazines and 13 college newspapers have delegates there.

Davidson and Armistice Days Combined In One

Governor Morrison’s Talk Features Day. Davidson College Highway Formally Dedicated

Davidson celebrated the anniversary of Armistice Day and the formal opening of the Highway between Charlotte and Statesville, with an interesting and varied program of events which took place on Monday, November 12th. The program of the day included a speech by Governor Morrison, a military review of the Davidson College R. O. T. C., a float parade, singing by the Davidson College Glee Club, a concert by the Statesville Band, and a football game between the Davidson and Fort Mill high schools. The day was also Davidson College Day, the eighty-sixth anniversary of the founding of the college.

The town of Davidson was well decorated for the celebration. The outstanding feature of the decorations was a large white arch which was constructed across the new highway where it intersected Concord street. The arch bore the inscription Davidson College Highway in large black letters across its face.

A crowd of about 600 visitors flocked to Davidson from every direction to enjoy the celebration program. The automobile traffic was well handled by a detachment of 14 uniformed policemen from Charlotte. The Woman's Civic Club of Davidson rendered a valuable service for the entertainment of the visitors by providing a large booth on the college grounds where a light luncheon and refreshments could be bought. Coffee, which was provided by the college, was given away free from this booth.

The program of the day was begun promptly at 11 o'clock with a singing concert given by the Davidson College Glee Club on a platform which had been constructed on the campus near the college church. The club gave an entertaining program composed of seven songs: Song of Love, Pierrette Song, Winter Song, On the Road to Mandalay, Tell Me Not of a Lovely Lass, College Ties, and Midnight Rose. This part of the program was followed by a concert given by the Statesville Band. They entertained the steadily increasing crowd with five selections, entitled Hi Capitan March, Robinson's Entry March, Bebe, Love Sends a Little Gift of Roses, and American Patrol March.

The four companies of the R. O. T. C. battalion of the college were next drawn up in line on the campus, and when the governor, the visiting highway commissioners, the town officials, and the college faculty and trustees present were seated on the platform, the unit passed in review before them with flags waving and the R. O. T. C. band playing O Davidson! The next event of the celebration was a float parade led by the R. O. T. C. band. The most interesting float was that representing Gen. Robert E. Lee on his horse, Traveler. This float was arranged by the Stonewall Jackson Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy, located in Charlotte. Col. Robt. E. Mason, formerly of the Seventh Infantry of the South Carolina Confederate forces, represented General Lee. Lee's aide was represented by Dan Mason, Colonel Mason's son. The ladies on the float dressed in colonial gowns were Mesdames A. B. (Continued on page 7)

Mr. Wilson spoke three times to the students of the college. “The Rediscovery of the Religion of Jesus” was his subject Friday evening. At the outset he disclaimed any idea of approaching it from a theological or sentimental viewpoint, but solely from the viewpoint of a citizen of America. The basis of his message was found in four melancholy and somber considerations which he focused attention upon at the first, “What bearing upon the Christian religion has this momentous fact: that in the so-called Christian world, not in the benighted, pagan, uncivilized, heathen world, but in this Christian world there came the horrible World War, a war of lust and greed and selfishness, without right or justice, and the certainty of the result: the ruin of all our western civilization? Can we call such a war other than a proof that Christianity has never been practiced by us?”

Mr. Wilson proceeded to say that from this catastrophe, the eastern world has developed a critique of this Christianity of ours and they want none of it for themselves. “And they are right about it, are they not?” he concluded. The last consideration was the fact that our leaders do not know where we are going; they are not only doubtful but they are fearful about the future. In the words of Wilson, “In these days of unrest, you will... (text cuts off)Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are consideration is he noted in are gloomy Woodrow. When all is... look what way the road ahead seems darkened by. It is only common prudence that we attempt to ascertain the shadows, causes of distress and the means of removing them. That the world is moving toward destruction unless thought shall find the means of removing causes of distress, shown to be the prevailing opinion of such men as H. G. Wells, Papini and Harding, the quotations from their writings given by (Continued on page 6).

G. S. E. Holds National Convention Nov. 16-17
Honorary Chemical Fraternity Has Five Active Chapters
DR. ARBUCKLE PRESIDES
Davidson Chapter Composed of Nine Students

Davidson College will be the recipient of a very singular honor on Friday and Saturday of this week when the national officers and delegates from all the chapters of Gamma Sigma Epsilon, chemical fraternity, will convene here in the annual convention of that organization. The Alpha Alpha chapter, located at Davidson, which is the original mother chapter of the fraternity, will be the host to the visiting chemists. Doctor Arbuckle, Davidson's head professor of Chemistry and also a national officer in Gamma Sigma Epsilon, will preside at the convention meetings. Among the other officers expected are Dr. L. P. Good, Worthy Grand Alchemist from Johns Hopkins University; M. A. Siske, Grand Recorder, from the University of Virginia; and R. A. Doubles, of Richmond, Va., Grand Visor. The chief social function of the convention will be a banquet for the visiting members in the local chapter rooms on November 16th. The major portion of the two days will be taken up with the business of the (Continued on page 4).

Bachelors Will Be Installed Into Phi Gamma Delta
Bachelors’ Club Will Be Installed as Delta Kappa, Sixty-fifth Chapter

On Saturday, November 17th, the Bachelors’ Club will be installed as Delta Kappa Chapter of Phi Gamma Delta. Plans are being made by members of the club to care for some 60 or 70 visitors, among whom will be some of the most prominent men in the Phi Gamma Delta state. Several national officers of Phi Gamma Delta will be present. The granting of the charter to the Bachelors’ Club at the last Ekklesia of Phi Gamma Delta, at Pittsburgh, in September, marked the attainment of the goal for which the Bachelors have striven for about six years. In the advertisement of the college, which was a necessary part of their publicity campaign, Davidson profited, for letters and pamphlets were mailed to every chapter in the fraternity, both active and alumni, and these cover practically the whole of the United States. The Bachelors’ Club was organized in the fall of 1913, and through the earnest work of all men who have been members from that day down, had attained such a position that it ranked with the five national fraternities here in every respect. Throughout the whole history of the club no Bachelor ever had to leave college for failure to comply with any college regulation of any kind. The national chemical fraternity which convenes here Friday, was founded by three Bachelors. The Bachelors’ Club first petitioned Phi Gamma Delta at the 1921 Ekklesia at Birmingham, Ala. The petition was not passed at that time, and only after another year and a half of hard work was the goal attained. The fraternity situation at Davidson is such a one that several more fraternities of good standing could be well supported here. Until the granting of a charter from Phi Gamma Delta to the Bachelors’ Club, the last chapter was established here in 1890. Beside that, there is another special peculiarity in the situation: the cordial relationship between the fraternity and non-fraternity men. The spirit of democracy for which every Davidson man is noted is put to the test in this respect, and has never been found wanting. However, until the work of the Bachelors’ Club made them realize the real situation, the faculty had taken a very indifferent attitude toward fraternity life. With the development of fraternity life in relation to campus life, it became evidently necessary that fraternity houses be allowed here. Several of the members of the faculty being fraternity men, and the trustees having given the fraternity committee of the faculty carte blanche in this respect, it will be but a little while until such things are realities. The Bachelors and S. A. E.'s will have to move first, and will probably build inside of two years. The grounds for the houses have not been definitely decided. Among those members of Phi Gamma Delta to whom invitations have been sent are: Calvin J. Coolidge, Newton D. Baker, T. Bailey Lee, Harry J. White, who will be the official legate; Geo. F. Snyder, national secretary of Phi Gamma Delta; Cecil J. Wilkinson, editor of the fraternity magazine; Philip E. Lyon, field secretary of Phi (Continued on page 2).

Tigers Take Advantage Of Breaks To Win, 12-0
Davidson Fumbles Prove Costly, and Clemson Scores Twice
VANCE STOPS TIGER BACKS
Touchdowns In First and Final Periods Best Wildcats

Clemson, by hard work and taking advantage of Davidson's off-plays in the first and final periods of a hard-fought game, defeated the Presbyterian Wildcats 12 to 0, on Riggs Field, at Clemson College, last Friday. Williams carried the pigskin across for Clemson's first counter, late in the initial period, when Davidson, in an attempt to punt, lost the ball on her own 10-yard line on a bad pass from center. Walker accounted for the other touchdown in the last quarter, just after the Wildcats had held the Tigers for downs on Davidson's 7-yard line and punted out to the 20-yard line. Clemson failed to drop-kick either try for point, one going wild and the other being blocked by Anderson. The game was much closer than the score for outstanding events would indicate. Davidson played an exceptional brand of ball except for the few minutes in which hard luck put their spirit at a low ebb, and the Clemson Tigers fought all the way through. Davidson's line held time after time and in the shadow of their goal was almost inviolate, but the trusty Tiger backs, Williams and Walker, delivered the goods at the most opportune moments and made each touchdown. Davidson won the toss and elected to receive. Hendrix returned Robinson's 40-yard punt 10 yards and the ball went into play on Davidson's 30-yard line. After an exchange of punts Hendrix got loose around left end for 27 yards, and was going for a touchdown when in shaking off the last man between him and the last white line he fumbled, and Clemson recovered. Williams ran six consecutive plays for two first downs and Clemson was penalized 15 yards for holding and forced to punt. On account of two fumbles Davidson failed to gain, and Shepherd was called back to punt. A bad pass from center lost 6 yards. Another bad pass from center fixed Shepherd so he could not punt, and in an attempt to run the ball out he was tackled on the 10-yard line and the ball went over. After a 5-yard offside penalty was offset by an 8-yard pass (Continued on page 4).

D. C. Highway Dedicated
Important Auto Road Dedicated by Governor Morrison on Monday, Cost Over a Million

The Davidson College Highway, formally dedicated to the service of the state on Monday of this week by Governor Cameron Morrison, is an important artery of trade, connecting two of North Carolina’s most important business towns and embracing a number of smaller towns in which there is a great volume of business. The total cost of this asphalt highway was $1,218,000, or about $32,000 per mile. The total length is 38.4 miles, the highway effecting a saving of 4.7 miles distance between Charlotte and Statesville. The new highway has eliminated nine dangerous crossings, thus helping to prevent many accidents. The road itself is a masterpiece of the road builders’ art and is said to be the best road in the state. It has a concrete base five inches thick and two inches of the best quality asphalt for a top layer; this latter offering a firm yet resilient tractive surface for all kinds of vehicles. The width, 18 feet, allows plenty of room for two vehicles to pass each other, even at a high speed. This road, which was completed this year, falls under the great road-building program outlined by Governor Morrison, which has (Continued on page 2).

---