- - sine THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 20, 1923

Holiday Schedule Basketball Be Merry Exam Basket Wrestling

ADDITIONS TO THE WILDCAT GRID RECORD

In the Thanksgiving Football Extra, The Davidsonian printed the Davidson football record from 1897, when Davidson played her first intercollegiate game, to the present time. Owing to ill-kept records, breaks occurred in the list, in the years 1903, 1905, 1912, and 1913. An appeal was made to alumni for correct scores and for corrections which might be necessary in other years. The Davidsonian wishes to thank Mr. James C. Harper, of Lenoir, N. C., for the scores of the following games:

Oct. 18, 1912, at Davidson, D. C., 125; Mt. Pleasant, 0.
Oct. 18, 1913, at Raleigh, D. C., 6; N.C. State, 26.

Any other information which alumni can give in regard to the missing games, or any corrections in the scores as tabulated, will be greatly appreciated. Please address all communications to C. M. S. McIlwaine, Box 263, Davidson, N. C.

SPORTING GOODS

Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES
Davidson Representative
J. P. HENDRIX
302 West
Samples now on display
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
J. M. HENDRIX AND COMPANY
GREENSBORO
NORTH CAROLINA

Johnny Bachman Lowers College Course Record

Negotiates Nine-Hole Course in 33, Two Strokes Under Former Record

On the afternoon of Saturday, the 8th, Johnny Bachman established a new record for the Davidson golf course. His score of 33 broke all previous records for the course and showed that Davidson has a real golfer in Johnny. Throughout the afternoon his play was featured by strong drives and accurate putts. In only one case did he let his mighty drive run wild and that was in driving from the seventh to the eighth green, when the little white ball went far beyond the green and across the road. Only those acquainted with the course can appreciate what it takes to make such a drive. The best play of the afternoon was made at the fifth hole. After a long drive and a 150-yard mashie shot the ball was on the green. With one putt the ball was sunk. Hard luck follows the best of players, for Johnny missed a 32 score by rimming the cup on a 3-foot putt at the last hole. The previous record of the Davidson course was 35, which was established by Woodrow Clark, ’18. Johnny has tied that record three times and broken it once with his late 33.

Last year Johnny was made captain of the golf team and because of his ability he retains that position this year. Not only has he won distinction on the campus but also in the circle of championships as he was low medalist in the Georgia State Tournament last year. To add to his list of laurels he has won several loving cups at his country club. Last summer Johnny was engaged in an interesting match, playing with Bobby Jones, national open champion, against Perry Adair, southern amateur champion, and Watt Gunn, Georgia state champion. Bachman and Jones won 2 up and 1 to play. The score in detail was as follows:

Red and Black Grapplers Face

CLASS BASKETBALL SCORING

Last week several errors appeared in the composite season score of the class basketball teams. Correct figures show the Juniors and Seniors tied for high-point honors with ’25 having the best of it as regards opponents’ points.

Total Opps.
Field Foul Points Points
Juniors 21 143 108
Seniors 23 143 119
Fresh 22 124 153
Sophs 17 117 147

FIVE REASONS FOR A WINNING TEAM

Left to right—Capt. C. M. Davis, Center; M. S. Beall, Forward; R. E. Boggs, Guard; T. F. Staley, Forward; and J. H. McConnell, Forward—Five of the seven Fighting Wildcats Who Have Donned the Jersey Again This Year.

Teams in South-Atlantic Division

TWO VIRGINIA TRIPS

Carolina and Trinity to be Met on Home Floor

Now that the football season is over, the public eye is on the other sports that have to do with the colder days. Among these other sports is one that the ancient Greeks indulged in during the days of old, namely, wrestling. This is a comparatively new sport at Davidson, but last year the team came out as well as could be expected, and with all of last year's team, with the exception of two, back, a victorious teamis expected to be turned out. Captain Weems, once the captain of the West Point team, is planning to have an elimination contest as soon as everyone returns from the Christmas holidays. This contest was to be held before the holidays, but the fact that most of the men were not in good enough physical condition warranted the postponement of the bout. With a month to get in condition after they come back and before the first meet, it will take hard training on the part of the grapplers to get in shape, but it can be done successfully, without danger of overtraining. The lettermen back this year are Lindamood, captain; Selser, and Cromartie, last year’s captain. In addition to these men are two men, White and Patterson, from last year’s team, who are showing up well. There are several men going out for each position, and there will be some strong competition going on for each weight, especially the lighter weights. (Continued on page 3)

First hole—3; second—4; third—3; fourth—2; fifth—3; sixth—5; seventh—3; eighth—4; ninth—5.

Hard Schedule of Six Meets With Leading Teams of Section

Wildcat Matinee Meet

Yearling Cagers Hit Fast Stride In Opening Weeks

Six High School Captains Out for Positions on Team—Coach Lawson Working Hard

Fresh basketball practice is moving along nicely. The number of men who came at Coach Lawson’s call exceeded the maximum number hoped for. The material is exceptionally good, there being an abundance of players for each position except forward. 

Now, there are two practices a day, one in the afternoon and the other at night. This was made necessary on account of the large number of men trying for the team. The number is divided into two squads, there being about 20 in each squad. The practice for the first ten days was drill in the fundamentals of basketball: close shooting, passing, pivoting, reversing, long shooting, etc. Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of last week, the practice consisted of scrimmage. Defensive material is plentiful, but offensive material is scarce.

In the Fresh squad, there are six former high school basketball captains. They are R. E. Faucette, Bristol, Va.; Hewlitt, Wilmington, N. C.; C. G. McAllen, New Bern, N. C.; T. M. Neal, Dixie, N. C.; J. H. McConnell, Davidson, N. C.; and W. A. Christian, University Military School, Mobile, Ala. Some of the others who are showing up well in practice are T. F. Anderson, Bristol, Va.; F. E. Hudgins, Bluefield, W. Va.; J. A. Simpson, Commerce, Ga.; and J. D. Perry, Oxford, N. C. The squad will be cut immediately after Christmas to 15 men. The schedule has not yet been completed. The faculty is thinking of limiting the number of games the Fresh team will be allowed to play to three.

Captains of Former Years MISSING FROM 1924 LINE-UP

Left to right—Warhoss Mauze, Center and Captain of the 1923 Poison Squad; Pat Crawford, Guard and Captain of the 1922 Fighting Devils.

DRAFT 1924 GRID CARD

Head Coach W. L. Younger and Graduate Manager J. M. Douglas announce the completion of the 1924 grid schedule. Three new teams face Younger’s eleven next season. Lenoir and Wofford take the place of the heavier Citadel and V. P. I. teams. Every effort was made to retain Wake Forest on the schedule, but the Baptists failed to come to terms, so the University of Richmond takes their place on the list. The complete schedule follows:

Sept. 21—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 27—P. C. at (Undecided).
Oct. 4—U. of Richmond at Winston-Salem.
Oct. 11—Wofford at Spartanburg or Charlotte.
Oct. 18—Lenoir at Davidson.
Oct. 22—Furman at Columbia (S. C. State Fair).
Nov. 1—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Nov. 8—Clemson at Davidson or Charlotte.
Nov. 15—Carolina at Davidson.
Nov. 27—Trinity at Durham.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL

Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them, but none like the Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents