THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 22, 1922

AS YOU WERE

This is a picture of the Class of 1903 in its Sophomore year (1901). The members are as follows:
Anderson, J. L.
Armstrong, F. H.
Arrowood, W. W.
Bailey, J. S.
Beaty, W. J.
Caldwell, H. H.
Daffin, R. D.
Dunn, William M.
Greer, G. W.
Irwin, Herbert.

The Davidsonian is indebted to Mrs. Currie for information concerning the cut used in last week's issue of the Davidsonian.
The cut is of the baseball team of 1903. The men appearing in the picture are as follows:
Daffin, L. D.; Kirkpatrick, R.; Tuttle; Watt, W. A. (Mgr.); Smith, R.; Smith, W. J.; Morrison, R. H.; Kirkpatrick, W.;
Wharton; Bailey, J.; Wyman; Brown (C); and Chedester.

Here and There

Dounon W. Spencer is attending University of S. C., at Columbia, S.C. in the Law School.
W. F. Fairley, ex-'22, is farming on a large scale near Orangeburg, S.C.
Julius M. Salley is engaged in the automobile business at Orangeburg, S. C.
J. Brian Bell, Jr., ex-'11, is now on the staff of the Columbia State, Columbia, S. C. He reported the
D. C.-S. C. Freshman game for his paper.
R. C. Hamer, ex-'13, who is a large landowner at Eastover, S. C., attended the game in Columbia between Davidson
and U.S. C. Freshmen.
T. I. Salley is in the banking business in Orangeburg, S. C.
F. L. Harkey is the Chief of Division Markets for the Co-operative Extension Work in Agriculture and Home Economics in
the state of South Carolina. His headquarters are at Greenville, S.C.
A. S. Tomkins is located in Columbia, S.C., at the head of a large wholesale grocery firm.
Cosmo L. Walker is connected with a large cotton brokerage in Columbia, S. C.
Guy Humphries, of Greenwood, Miss., spent the week-end on the Hill en route from a wedding in Richmond, Va.
R. B. Walker is associated with his brother Cosmo L. Walker in the cotton brokerage business in Columbia, S. C.
Henry Spann, who is well remembered by Davidson alumni as one of its most outstanding football stars, is now traveling
for a large tobacco manufacturing concern, with headquarters at Orangeburg, S. C.
James G. Wool is filling the pulpit of Pegram Street Church in Charlotte.
R. W. Shane is traveling for a large hardware concern having Orangeburg, S. C., as headquarters.
John L. McLees, ex-'20, is a farmer and landowner near Orangeburg, S.C.
A. L. Wilson spent a few days on the Hill returning from a wedding in Richmond, Va., where he was
one of the groomsmen. Al is now engaged in the mercantile business at Quincy, Fla.
Dwight Moseley, ex-'23, is in the mercantile business at Orangeburg, S.C.

CANTRELL-WHITE

On November 12, announcements came out of the marriage of Miss Anne Cantrell of Winston-Salem, N.C. to Mr. Benjamin Newton
White, Jr. of Danielsville, Ga., the wedding occurring in Asheville, N.C. July 30, 1923. Mr. White is a Davidson graduate
of the class of 1917. He initially attended the University of Georgia but later came to Davidson where he attained
an envious position in the football activities of the college. In the year of his graduation, 1917, he...White was captain
of the Wildcat team, and at the close of the season was awarded a berth on the mythical all-state and
all-southern teams. During the World War, he saw service abroad in the Fifth Company of Charlotte. Of the same year
as himself, Mr. White had a brother, Theron White, who also graduated in 1917. The bride, Miss Cantrell, is a
graduate of the North Carolina College for Women, class of 1922, and also of the University of Wisconsin, class of
1923. She has been prominent in the journalistic circles of the state, being president of the N. C. Collegiate Press
Association, and since August, connected with the Greensboro News. The future happiness of the couple has a large place in
the interest of all those who knew them, either in college or outside life, and consequently the good wishes of
a host of friends will accompany them in their long journey through married life.

ALUMNI HISTORY WILL BE COMPLETE IN EVERY RESPECT

The Alumni catalogue is slowly nearing completion, and two-thirds of the material is already at the press. The proofs are
being read at the press now and are expected to be sent here for any necessary correction in a very
few days. However, Doctor Lingle, who is editing the catalogue, says he is not expecting the catalogue to be completed
until early January. He is planning to make an addition to the catalogue containing a short account of each of
the professors and the school trustees. The last catalogue of this sort was published in '91, but was not complete.
Doctor Lingle and his assistants are hoping to make the new one complete in every respect. One of its purposes
is to put down the names of the alumni in each of the leading cities in order to aid in
the formation of alumni associations.

MONUMENT BUILT IN HONOR OF AN OLD DAVIDSON MAN

The contract has been let for the erection of the Frank Thompson Gymnasium at North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N.C.
The building is being erected in honor of Frank Thompson of Raleigh, a student of State College, who was killed
in action during the World War. The young man was a prominent figure in the athletics of the school from
which he graduated, but he was also once a prominent man on the Davidson Campus, where he spent several of
his college years, and all who knew him here will be glad to learn that the name of the young
man will be perpetuated by so lasting a monument to his memory. He left Davidson in 1908, going to State
College where he received his degree. His life from the time of his graduation to his grievous death in service,
and the action of his alma mater signifies the high esteem with which he was held among college and state
circles.

College men like to do things on the run! Not much time to do their shopping --- There’s where we
shine! We are ready at a moment's notice. Everything that’s needed --- smart and correct Fall suits, overcoats, shoes, oxfords,
hats, and furnishings.

MELLON’S
8-10 West Trade Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

“Fires occur in American homes at the rate of 359 each 24 hours --- a fresh outbreak every four minutes.
At least three of every four need not start, for they are due to carelessness and ignorance, --- both correctible.”

The Independence Trust Company
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
