TH E DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 15, 1923

Back Your Class Team

SPORTS

V.P.I. D. G. 7 O V.P.I....25 Clemson . 6

Carolina Favored to Win On to Carolina! In Saturday’s Battle

Wildcatville, Nov. 15, 1923.

Wildcats Journey to Chapel Hill Doped to Lose By Good Margin

Dear Joe,

Tho I have been in this institution of learning for going on three years my spelling has not improved one
whit and all my brain power is on the decline from trying to figure out the next Saturday’s Wildcat grid
score. From the past results, it seems kind of like the Red and Carolina will once more face Davidson with
odds stacked up in her favor when the Tar Heels meet the Wildcats in Chapel Hill next Saturday. Dope on
previous games shows that Carolina should win, they having won 14 tilts, lost three, and tied four of the contests
in the grand ole game this season played with Davidson. But everybody up here is true Wildcats and believes that
when Monk’s clan journeys up to the Hill in the next couple of days, the Tar Heels'll fall like Gee
CTRL TOR Ru Ener Tie. I kinda got a hunch the same way.

I would have written you sooner in the season but all my time was taken up with traveling all over
the Carolinas to see the Davidson team in action. I saw some mighty good scraps and they say true Americans
always yell for the underdog which I did but if it hadn't been for some bad breaks of the game
I wouldn't always have been a true American. And now only the Carolina game and the contest with Trinity on
turkey day is left.

In these contests, The Fetzerites have had a reasonably successful season this year, winning from Wake Forest, 22 to 0;
Trinity, 14 to 6; N. C. State, 14 to 0; and South Carolina, 13 to 0. They have lost to
Yale, 53 to 0; Maryland, 14 to 0; and V. M. I., 9 to 0. The Carolinians do not seem
to have the big scoring team this year that they have heretofore turned out. In the games to date, Carolina
has scored 63 points, while her opponents have put across 83 markers.

Samuel Summers, the baby of the team, and Doc DeArmon would have helped out considerably in the past 4 sessions
if they had been in shape but when they get in against the final oppositions of the season they will
be making up for lost time and should strut their mess. We have hooked up with all kinds of opposition
in the past four. After mixing it with the Demon Deacons from Hardshellville, a regular Purple Hurricane from the Palmetto
state, a whole passel of Wolves (looked like hippopotamuses to yours truly) from Raleigh, and a really truly snarling Tiger,
a bunch of Tar Heels and just plain Blue Devils without any fancy names added on ought to seem pleasanter.
Alkali Jones and a few other Texans say the thin Red line should be in the best shape it has
ever been in. Also, that if a Mason would put mortar in between all them hard-rock buddies and make it
a stone wall, it couldn’t hold no better than it does now.

Well, Joseph, now that Notre Dame has been knocked for a row of knock-kneed double-jointed ash cans, anything can happen
so we're pulling for the old Wildcat comeback to be well oiled and in good working order day after tomorrow.
Anyways the Hill will see a battle royal Saturday (for the Tar Heels).

Coach Younger is pointing for the Tar Heel game and then he'll be ready to see the Blue Devils Thanksgiving.
We would like to cop both games, but in case we come out short in the first contest we'll still
be in Charlotte 100 percent to back the team against Trinity, seeing as how the faculty have granted an extra,
special, one whole day holiday on account of its being Thanksgiving. Hooray for Thanksgiving!! I got four straights on Thursday!!

Come down and look us over sometime kid.

Yours, as ever,
CHONG.

The Commissary

Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES
Davidson Representative
J. P. HENDRIX
302 West

Miss May Ellinwood has returned to her home in Davidson where she will spend the winter. Mrs. Ellinwood and her
mother spent the summer months in their summer home, in Cornwall, Conn.

Prof. A. V. Goldiere was host to Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Williams, and Mr. and Mrs. K. J. Foreman
last Friday night. The entertainment was of a musical nature.

The first-string men from the Yale melee. Then the Tar Heels crushed the Farmers, the conquerors of Davidson. They then
defeated South Carolina, who P. C. defeated. By double figuring, Carolina, through the state scores, should be 21 points better
than Davidson, and according to South Carolina scores, 3 points should cover the margin. Very little advance dope can be
secured as to the individuals on the team. No weights have yet been announced. It is certain though that Carolina
will have it on Davidson in weight, experience, and playing grounds, and, coupled with the fact that Monk McDonald will
be playing his last game against the Presbyterians, the Wildcats will have to tear through the Tar Heels.

Second verse, same song: Hard luck again. This time at Clemson.

Jimmy Hendrix asks us to have a special reward. For further details ask Jimmy. It's a hard lot of teams
in his state—a Wolfpack, Wildcats, Blue Devils, and Demon Deacons—not to mention the Tar Heels, make it rather hard for
the Christians and Quakers.

Before a large and enthusiastic crowd, the Freshmen won their third game by defeating the Sophomores 31 to 19. The
game was well played and fast, although it slowed up occasionally on account of the numerous fouls. The game started
off as if it were going to be all Soph. Lawson and Cooke seemed to be able to locate the
basket just any time, and before the Fresh could wake up the score was 11 to 4 against them. After
playing about 10 minutes, the Fresh called time out, and from that point the game was all Fresh. Kiser and
Groover, with some long shots, brought the score up to 13. At the end of the half, the score was
14 to 13, in favor of the Sophs. The passing of the Fresh was brilliant and had the Sophs at
sea, and no one could fathom it to break it up. The second halfwas slower than the first, chiefly because
of the number of fouls committed. The Freshmen scored 21 points in this period while the Sophs were able to
run up only 5. It appeared as if the Freshmen could locate the basket with a fair degree of accuracy
while the Sophs, getting many more chances to score, threw them away by long shots and poor judgment. The Freshmen
have the best passing team of the classes and if anybody but the Seniors is going to win the championship,
it is most probable that it will be this class. There were no individual stars for the Freshmen, while Cooke
and Lawson played the best game for the Sophs. The score:

However, Elon and Guilford have a merry time when they get together. It was 7-0 Elon this time. It was
rumored that the college was going to fill the college tank with coffee to serve the 20,000 visitors. It turned
out that a two-gallon jug—that happened to be empty—was enough. In fact, there was so much extra water that it
got in the way on the end runs at the games. Boys, we're going back to the days of the
old stagecoach. A scrap at Durham a month ago isn’t heard of in Davidson for a month. It’s all wrong,
Stevenson, Bell, and Marconi, it’s all wrong. We won't be able to go home Xmas if the Wildcats don’t win
at Chapel Hill. We have a sister—and other things—there, and we'll never hear the end of it. All the dope
is against the Wildcats, but that just makes it all the merrier.

For the first time in four years the Seniors are leading something—if the Juniors haven't beaten them by now. The
Davidson High School continues its winning streak. It’s always right there with a team in its class.

Sophs (19) Position Fresh (34)
Cooke (5) Anderson (8)
Colthane (2) Groover (9)
Forwards
White (4) Faucette (5)
Center
Lawson (0) Ratcliffe (1)
Guards
Substitutions: Sophs—Oden, Moore (1), Hovis, Montgomery. Fresh—Simpson (2), Beall (2), Hunter, Farrell, Perry, Kiser.
Referee: Rawson; Length of halves: 20 minutes.

Of course, we didn't know about those 20,000 people. Georgia Tech, Georgia, Alabama, Vanderbilt, Center, W. & L., and Florida,
are still in the ring for the Southern championship. It doesn’t look like anybody is going to come out with
a clean-cut lead. Georgia will have the edge if she beats Alabama, Vandy, and Center, but Georgia isn’t going to
do that little thing.

The D. C. Highway has been a great factor in the increased business and trade activities in North Carolina. This
road-building program called for about $52,000,000, of which not a cent has been gained by an increase in taxation. This
sum is being secured by taxes on automobiles and trucks and a state levy on gasoline of about three cents
per gallon. This puts the burden of payment on those who derive the most benefit from the improved highways instead
of burdening the people with excessive taxes. This slight charge has been about offset in nearly all cases by increased
savings in gasoline and tires.

(Continued from page 1)

Professor Brown's dope on the laws of probability was so satisfactory last week that we challenge Bailey Groome to a
little guessing game on Saturday's scores.

At Greenville, S. C.: Furman, 41; Newberry, 0.
At Clemson, S. C.: Clemson, 17; P. C., 0.
At Charlottesville, Va.: Virginia, 7; V. P. I., 14.
At Raleigh, N. C.: State, 0; Maryland, 21.
At Elon: Elon, 0.
At Chapel Hill, N. C.: Wake Forest, 28; Davidson, 7.

Other important games will be:
At Knoxville, Tenn.: V. M. I., 21; Tennessee, 3.
At Nashville, Tenn.: Vandy, 10; Georgia, 0.
At Atlanta, Ga.: Tech, 21; Kentucky, 7.
At Columbia, S. C.: W. & L., 20; S. C., 0.
At Auburn, Ala.: Center, 10; Auburn, 7.

Davidson has benefited materially by this road. Many tourists come through the town and many stop here. Especially does traffic
seem to be the heaviest on Sunday afternoons, when hundreds of cars pass through bearing people from Charlotte, Statesville, and
other places, who can make miles and miles in an afternoon’s time. During his stay in Davidson, Governor Morrison was
taken on a ride over a greater part of this highway. He gave as his opinion that “It certainly is
some road. We were making 50 miles an hour up the road a-piece and someone passed us like we were
standing still.”

BACHELORS WILL MERGE
(Continued from page 1)
Gamma Delta; J. L. Rendleman. About 60 or 70 Bachelor alumni and Fijis will be here.

WILDCAT RESERVES RUN OVER HIGH POINT A. C. 25-6

The Davidson Scrubs had no trouble in defeating the High Point Athletic Association in their first game of the season,
at High Point, on Monday, November 15th, by the score of 25-6. In the first quarter, the Scrubs, with the
old Davidson fight, rolled up three touchdowns, making the score 18-0. Near the end of the quarter, High Point pushed
a touchdown through center, after going 50 yards by two long passes. This was the only time Davidson was threatened
at all. Straight football, consisting mostly of off-tackle plays and end runs, was all the Scrubs needed; in fact, they
did not punt once during the game. The last touchdown came in the third quarter. The line-up was as follows:

Left End: Richardson
Left Tackle: Patterson
Left Guard: Lewis
Center: McAulay
Right Guard: Anderson
Right Tackle: Cox
Right End: Sappenfield
Quarterback: McComb
Right Halfback: Buck
Fullback: Hunt

Miss Sophie Richards, of Converse College, spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL

Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them; but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have
it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents
