, THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 15, 1923

Charlotte’s Only Vaudeville THEATRE

Friday-Saturday
CHAS. WORRELL and his “VIRGINIA BELLES”
Featuring BOB “KEYSTONE” FAGAN
Former Keystone Comedy Star

COMING MONDAY
JANE AND HARRY PLATT’S “MUSICAL REVUE”

Matinee Daily 3:30 10-25c
NIGHT 7:30-9 Prices, 20-35c

Provides “the bit of sweet” in beneficial form. Helps to cleanse the teeth and keep them healthy.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
JAKE MARTIN, Manager

The Raleigh
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte's Best Cafe
down.—(Adv.)

(To be continued next week)

Out Ain’t Putting’

Had you ever stopped to think that
The rooster, like a lot of men,
Can crow to beat the deuce;
But when you crowd him for results,
You find he can’t produce?

The Hooting of Jane McChew
(With apologies to Service)

A group of the girls were whooping it up in the Grecian candy store;
The nickel piano was pounding out the latest Broadway score;
Back of the bunch, with a hot nut fudge, sat Dangerous Jane McChew,
And watching her eat was her favorite snake, the lizard that’s known as Lou.

When off of the street where the rain beat down and into the jazz and glare,
There hurried a maiden fresh from a date with very disheveled hair;
She seemed like a girl that was down and out and her looks were beginning to fade,
But she stopped at the counter and called for a box of the finest candy made.

And we tried to tell by her perfume’s smell, in vain whence this flapper flew,
But we ate her fudge and the last to eat was Dangerous Jane McChew.

There's women that seem to hold your gaze

A MERRY DRAMA
In Many Acts and Numberless Scenes

Introducing “The Freshman,” or to speak campus wise “Fresh,” a verdant member of '26, who constantly craves information. It is our resolution that he shall be informed.

Characters:
“Mack” Lennox, a rather prominent senior; he prides himself on the nobbiness of his wardrobe; it is his private opinion that he is a veritable lady-killer.
“Bill” Carroll, his roommate and no less prominent junior; in matter of dress, his taste is more conservative and substantial; in regard to his love affairs the old adage, “Still water runs deep,” is applicable.

Act the Fourth
The Dope Sheet

Fresh—Say, how long is it going to rain up here, cold as all-forty, too?
Bill—Son, when thou hast been here as long as I, thou wilt not wonder but will be content with thy lot.
Mac (he has been reading)—Say, boys, listen to this will you—
(Bill and the Freshman are taken unawares so they have to endure it.)

Women are very perverse and contrary,
They will contradict you flat;
Oh, women I'll call the devil and all,
There’s no denying that!
But, woman, oh, men, is beyond our ken,
Too angelic for mortals below;
How little they know of woman
Who only women know!

Bill—Keep quiet now will you? (Mac subsides.)
Fresh—It’s still cold but Junior Speaking will soon be here and that means new clothes—what’s the dope.
Bill—Was down to Charlotte the other day and saw the advance sheets of Hart, Schaffner and Marx.
Fresh—What did it feature?
Bill—The dope is that Norfolk’s and other sport models will be pretty generally worn, the conservative coat being conspicuous by its absence except for the older men. Gray and tan mixtures will predominate with a liberal sprinkling of the tropicals in worsteds and mohairs.
Fresh—Who handles Hart, Schaffner and Marx hereabouts?
Bill—Mellon will have a complete line.
Fresh—Reckon that I will have to drop

Song of the freshmen after receiving the dear letters from the Registrar last week:

To school I came with hopes all high,
My heart was beating fast—
But now I find it’s do or die—
I’m dying on the grass.

On the grass outside the library,
There on the campus green—
For I’ve been scratched from the college roll,
For the faculty I have seen,

What It Takes to Get a Girl
1. Money.
2. A car.
3. Jack.Somehow call your bluff; 
And such was she and she seemed to me like a girl who knew her stuff;
She paused to stare at the kitten there—
At the girls who dig for gold—
At the dames who eat up a fellow’s kale and turn and leave ’em cold.
And I looked while she worked the slot machine to see what gum she’d chew,
While watching her as his face turned pale was the lizard that’s known as Lou.
“Light of my life, Mazda!” he whispered.
“Sole of my sole, Fiber!” she replied.

Below are a few suggestions for graduation presents this year:
1. Trip around the world.
2. Packard Twin Six.

She tried to hum as she chewed her gum as a perfect lady chews.
Her eyes they blazed as she turned and gazed at the quaking lizard sap.

VISITING CARDS
For the Junior Speaking and Commencement season.
The latest designs—engraved or embossed as you prefer.
Our college representative—W. J. Cooper, 2 Watts—will be glad to show samples.

And “Girls,” says she, “You don't know me and none of you care a rap,
But I want to say, if I die today, and I bit my socks it’s true,
That one of you is a terrible cat... and that one is Jane McChew.

The lights went out and women screamed as tables hit the floor,
And I can’t forget for I hear it yet the battle’s deafening roar.
Yes, it took us eight to separate those biting, struggling two—
And there with his dainty wrist watch smashed lay the lizard that’s known as Lou.

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games.
A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
Vicks VapoRub
17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Big Moment
The first time you—
Won the potato race at the church picnic;
Took your girl for a ride in an elevator;
Cranked the family’s automobile;
Tipped a Pullman porter $15;
Held a girl’s hand in the twilight.

SHAVE AND HAIRCUT
Bay Rum
Norton Bros. Barbers
NEXT TO TOBE’S

Could you call a beautiful girl at a Davidson basketball game a Gym-Jam-Gem?

A Scandal at Davidson
Monday: A whisper in a fraternity.
Tuesday: A topic of conversation between classes.
Say it with Flowers
SCHOLTZ, the Florist
Charlotte, N. C.
Merchants and Farmers National Bank
WHITE DRUG COMPANY, AGENTS
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Thursday: Spread to Cornelius and Mooresville.
Friday: More conversation.
Saturday: A faculty investigation.
Sunday: A lead in The Charlotte Observer.

“This is our first meeting since the corkscrew lost its pull,” said the old crow to his newly acquired bottle.

REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Not so many years ago (when some of us ourselves were undergraduates) the college student was a hoodlum. Today he's as conservative as can be—but with definite expression of his individuality nonetheless. Witness, John Ward Shoes, are made to meet the tastes of college men: dignified, but carrying a note of real distinction. The John Ward representative displays in No. 4 Georgia Hall February 22, 1923.

VICTROLAS
VICTOR RECORDS
PIANOS
Parker-Gardner Co.
MUSIC DEPARTMENT
16 W. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE