THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 1, 1923

ALUMNI NEWS

Dr. J. T. Wearn, '13, who has been instructor in the department of pharmacology at the University of Pennsylvania, will return next year to Boston, where he will be instructor in medicine at Harvard, and attending physician to the Boston City Hospital.

Dr. William H. Sprunt, '14, is located with Clinic, at Rochester, Minn.

Dr. W. T. Thompson, '15, professor of theology in Union Seminary, was one of the most brilliant speakers at the Laymen’s Convention at Charlotte last week.

L. A. Chambliss, '18, is in charge of the new business department of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company at Winston-Salem.

B. W. Romefelt, '21, is located at Asheville, as bond salesman for the Wachovia Bank.

R. S. Clary, ex-'14, is a pilot in the regular army air service, and is with the 94th Pursuit Squadron, Selfridge Field, Mt. Clemens, Mich.

Walter P. Sprunt, '04, is now the British Vice Consul for the port of Wilmington, the only British consular office in North Carolina.

Shelby T. McCloy, '17, is now at Union Seminary, Richmond, taking his second year of work in theology, after having received his degree of B. Litt. at Oxford University last summer.

On February 24, Mr. I. H. Patterson, '18, was married to Miss Flora Tice Clingenpell at Martinsville, Va. They will be at home after March 4, at 526 Campbell Avenue, Roanoke, Va.

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE HELD IN RALEIGH

On March 9-11 the Twelfth Annual North Carolina Student Volunteer Conference will be held at N. C. State College, Raleigh. Three hundred delegates will attend. These delegates are made up of student volunteers and non-volunteers from all the senior colleges of the State where there is a volunteer band. Some of the most noted speakers of all denominations will address the conference on all phases of missionary activities trying to bring to it a clearer vision of who and what is needed on the mission fields.

The Davidson delegation of fifteen will leave Davidson at 6:13 Friday morning, arriving at Raleigh at 4:30 that afternoon. All delegates will be met at the train where they will register and be directed to homes. From their homes they will go directly to the college where the first meeting will be held in the “Y” building at 5:30. The speakers’ list is not yet complete but Dr. Motte Martin, Dr. Claude M. Lee of China, Dr. Wade C. Smith of Greensboro, and Doctor Aggry, the internationally known negro speaker, a native African, will speak. There will be many noted women speakers of the Methodist, Lutheran and Presbyterian boards. Tom Sharpe, executive secretary of the student volunteer movement will be at this conference and something is bound to happen. He is a man worth traveling to New York three times to talk with and all the delegates are looking forward to being in a conference with him. The conference will close Sunday night, the delegates leaving for their colleges early Monday morning. Echo meetings will be held in each college the following Sunday when the delegates will try to pass on to those who could not go the knowledge and new enthusiasm they got at the conference.

SIGMA UPSILON HOLDS INTERESTING MEETING

On last Monday night at 9:30 p.m., the Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity held its regular meeting in the Beta hall. The study of the play was continued and this subject was taken as the principal work of the meeting. Mr. Locke Currie delivered a very interesting address and developed criticism on this subject. Many points were brought out by him, which were very helpful and will be of great aid in further study and discussion of the one-act play. An original one-act play, dealing with movements in South Carolina during the Revolutionary War and with Marion’s camp, was delivered by W. J. Cooper. This was a very interesting and fine work, given in three scenes and vividly described historical scenes as existed in South Carolina during America’s fight for independence. The meeting was a most profitable discussion of plays and other literary topics. It was decided that the fraternity would issue bids to new men within a short time. After the remaining business had been finished, delightful refreshments were served.

RADIO CONCERT GAINS FAME FOR MINSTRELS

The Wildcat Minstrel Troupe gave a splendid radio concert in Charlotte as a grand finale of a successful tour of the Carolinas. Messages were received from distant cities praising the concert and requesting encores. The editor of The Davidsonian received the following letter from an old Memphis alumnus:

“Dear Editor:

“Just a line to say that I am listening to the concert being rendered by the Davidson Wildcat Orchestra, and broadcasted by the Andrews Studio at Charlotte, and you may be sure it is sweet music to the ears of an ‘old’ graduate to think of hearing music from his alma mater’s orchestra in his own home, 700 miles from the college. I have called Gilbert Morrison (preacher), of my class (1916), and he too is enjoying the music via radio and telephone. Tell the boys who sang ‘Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shean,’ that they are by far the best we’ve heard from any station, and it is my opinion that they rival the original pair whom I heard back East last summer; also the man who sang, ‘Love Sends a Little Gift of Roses,’ deserves mention.

“If the orchestra plans giving another ‘air program’ I should like to get advance notice in order to get local Davidsonians together for a radio party.

“Best wishes for Davidson.

“LEROY A. MULLER, '16.”

PHI SOCIETY INSTALLS BALDWIN AS PRESIDENT

The officers for the spring term in the Phi Society were installed last Thursday night. In his inaugural address J. W. Baldwin, the new president, after reciting some of the past and present achievements of the Phi Society, called upon the members to cooperate with the officers in making this new term the best in the history of the society. H. M. Wells and A. B. Williford succeeded in convincing the judges of the rightness of their position in holding that we should have a State law compelling all vehicles to come to a complete stop at all grade crossings before crossing. The negative was upheld by A. B. Claytor and W. P. Brown. The oration by S. Reed Sloan on “The Law Must Prevail,” showed that the modern K. K. K. had no foundation for their mode of conduct, even if we concede the fact that the old order had. P. J. Story spoke in “Is Democracy Safe for the World?” This was a well thought out criticism of present-day tendencies in America dressed up in “archaeological” metaphors. W. H. Fitts, in Current Events, gave an unusual list, one which most people would have overlooked. This made them all the more interesting. The principal one was about the two Persians who are attending school at Carolina, of their trip over, and of the first impressions they received in America.

MUSICAL COMPANY TO GIVE CONCERT HERE

Lovers of good music and popular songs will have an opportunity next Monday night to hear an organization which is noted for its harmony and musical ability—the Carolina Concert Company. The concert will be given in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. Fifty cents admission will be charged, a percentage of which will be given to the Annual Staff, under whose auspices the concert is to be given.

The Carolina Concert Company is composed of some of the best musicians in the State. This organization is directed by Miss Coral Hayner Baker, who has studied both in this country and abroad. Mr. Scott Gibson, of Charlotte, is president and manager. Mr. W. H. Neal, of the Charlotte National Bank, is secretary and treasurer. The personnel of the organization is as follows: Messrs. E. D. Michael, E. H. Bell, H. L. Beatty, J. M. O’Grady, basses; Joe H. Bostick, W. H. Neal, C. R. Willmann, baritones; E. W. Stokes, E. Dowd Boovy, Scott Gibson, Philips Smith, tenors; Misses Nettle Allison and Grace Kohn, sopranos; Miss Nan Gordon, who was at one time director of Keith’s orchestra, violinist; Miss Baker is pianist. In this concert, there will be violin, vocal, and piano solos, male and female duets. Also quartets and quintets, besides choruses by the entire club. The program will consist of well-known and popular airs.

PANDEINICS INSTALL SPRING TERM OFFICERS

Besides the regular program the Pandeinic Literary Society was favored with an inaugural address by John Grey, the incoming president. He spoke very strongly against the lax practice of many society members of relying entirely on their “line” instead of preparation and thereby making the rest of the society suffer. He also spoke of the coming crises and responsibility of the society in the spring intersociety events, urging every member to do his full share in keeping the societyAt the top, the debate on the subject of stopping automobiles at all graded crossings was featured by much good wit and was won by Selzer and Sorrells, affirmative, against Ford and Carr, negative. The spring term officers installed at this meeting were: John Grey, president; E. M. Regen, vice-president; R. W. Oeland, secretary; J. R. Maxwell, sergeant-at-arms; W. A. Gamble, first critic; D. B. Walthall, second critic.

EXPERIENCES RELATED BY DOCTOR McCALLIE

At the union meeting of the Ministerial Band and the Volunteer Band last Sunday morning, Dr. H. D. McCallie, a missionary from Korea, gave an interesting talk on the people of Korea. In his talk, he related some striking and impressive experiences that have faced him in Korea. “Many people try to turn the church into a special center,” said Doctor McCallie, “and are trying to draw people into the church with worldly means here in America, especially in the North. Teachers in some of our best colleges do not believe in Christ, but look on Christianity as foolishness. What is the difference between the gods of Korea, which are made of wood, and the gods that some of the most educated men today picture in their minds, since they do not accept Christ? The people of Korea are a mass of living like the field, in degradation and poverty. God has provided only one way in the world to save men and that is through the preaching of the gospel.

“On these islands, there are old women who have never seen but a few white men, and whose minds are practically gone. They could not answer the questions that were asked them but they could say, ‘I don’t know what you are asking me, but I do love Christ and believe in him.’ And yet women like this who are absolutely ignorant can offer up some of the most wonderful prayers, showing that God will give us power to pray if we only try. The gospel is a thing that is suited for rich and poor, educated and uneducated. The gospel of Christ is the only thing that can lift up people who are down among the dregs and place them on their feet. The power of God is transforming the people in Korea, and they are changing their customs, laws, and religion. The people are eager to hear of Christ.”

DR. McCALLIE SPEAKS AT Y. M. C. A. SERVICES

Despite the confusion on the hill caused by the burning of Watts dormitory, a representative crowd attended the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening, at which meeting Dr. H. D. McCallie, a missionary to Korea, gave an inspirational and uplifting sermon bearing on the work in that nation. Doctor McCallie has served as a missionary of the gospel in that country for fifteen years, during which time great progress has been seen in bringing Korea to Christ.

In his opening remarks, Dr. McCallie referred to his childhood days, and to his Godly parents who prayed that he might be used of God for forwarding His kingdom on earth. He told of his college life at the University of Virginia, during which time he was drifting about with no purpose in view for his life. One evening while roaming over the campus of that great university he went into a meeting of the Y. M. C. A., and while there he heard Doctor Morrison, a great missionary to Africa. Doctor Morrison asked the question, “What are you doing with your life?” This question started Mr. McCallie to thinking and finally he made the great decision to go as a foreign missionary to the Orient.

The speaker told of the joy which his decision brought to his mother and father, besides being the first great joy of his own life. “The truest, the greatest happiness,” said Doctor McCallie, “comes through service to God and man. There is a superficial, temporary satisfaction in immoral and degrading pleasures, but these only bring eternal suffering to men’s souls. When a man is in the service of God and his fellowmen he is happy because he is following the footsteps of Jesus Christ, who came not to be ministered unto, but to minister. The truly great are those who do service for God and man.

“I was at the bedside of a dying Korean,” said the speaker, “who in his later life had found God.” When asked if he was afraid to die, the Korean replied: “No, I am not afraid to die, for I have found the Savior, but I only regret that I did not find him sooner, so that I might have spent my life in bringing Him to others.”

Dr. McCallie spoke of Edison and other men who have lived lives of service, as being greater than Napoleon and other great military leaders whose ambition and aim in life was the killing of their fellowmen. He spoke of the growth of education in Korea, which goes hand in hand with the growth of Christianity. He cited examples of men and women, both learned and ignorant, who have been brought together through the influence of the gospel, and of the loss of old superstitions through the teachings of the Christian schools.

“The greatest thrill of life comes in saving life—both the temporal life and the life of the soul throughout eternity. Wouldn't you have been happy if you could have saved a life today, the life of a friend? Then how much more pleasure is it to save the soul of a brother either in America or in faraway Korea?” Here the speaker referred to the wife of Doctor Chai, a Davidson student and native of Korea, who, he said, is a fine Christian woman helping to win her countrymen to Christ. “When one is in the service of God, there is the feeling of getting somewhere, which brings true satisfaction. There is the satisfaction that comes through fighting a good fight, of helping to get others to Heaven, and of standing before God to receive the plaudit, ‘Well done!’”

Dunbar Ogden was the leader of the evening, while Bob McLeod led the singing. Harold Moss and Wallace Moore led in prayer during the meeting. Following the closing song, Doctor McCallie pronounced the benediction first in Korean and then in English.

BASEBALL CANDIDATES WORKING HARD ALREADY

Once more Sprunt Field is the camping ground of a Wildcat baseball team. The team took the field this week under the leadership of Captain Pat Crawford. With Buck Currie and Dutch Hengeveld handling the coaching end of the nine, the outlook is good for another winning team this year. Prospects for batteries are unusually good; besides the letter pitchers—Sorrells, Boushee, and Hunter—there are fifteen other hopefuls, mostly freshmen. Of these, Alexander, Potts, McLaughlin, Alford, Johnson, Earnhardt, Barron, and Wells show up very well. On the receiving end, Brice, utility catcher and outfielder from last year’s team has reported and is going strong. Other men out for catching jobs are McDonald, Hendricks, Black, Hunter, and Hovis.

Pat Crawford, all-State man for two years, is the nucleus around which the infield must be built. This means that a great deal of the material for the inner garden will be chosen from the freshman class. Ted Covington and Nicky McKay both showed up well in class and scrub games last year and should secure a place on the team this year. Very little dope has been secured on the outfield candidates, but with Brice, Morrow, Richards, and Hasty back, a first-class outfield should be formed with little trouble. Some good men from the freshman class have reported for practice and are going strong.

The five letter men who are back are Sorrells, Hunter, and Boushee, pitchers, Captain Pat Crawford, first base, and Brice, utility outfielder and catcher. Red McPherson, pitcher, will probably not be able to perform this season, as he recently underwent an operation for appendicitis. The trips this year are unusually good. There is a trip through Virginia, the first in four years, two trips through North Carolina, and one through South Carolina. Both coaches and men seem very optimistic over the prospects of this year’s team.

HEADQUARTERS

All New DANCE RECORDS
Pianos and Players
Gibson Guitars and Mandolins
SHEET MUSIC
“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE
211-213 N. TRYON ST.

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President
D. H. ANDERSON, Vice-President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

T. M. McCOY, Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, Assistant Cashier
I. W. STEWART, Assistant Cashier

CAPITAL, SURPLUS, ETC., OVER $1,000,000.00

Fire insurance is considered essential to the conduct of business but many men of affairs overlook insuring that which is behind all business, their health.

McAlister Carson, Manager (’13)
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.,
Charlotte, N. C.