THEDAVIDSONIAN Vol. XI

Maroon and Gold Entertains Thirty-Five Delegates at the State Press Association

Seventeen North Carolina College Publications Represented at Elon Conference

WALT FILLANS IS SPEAKER

Other Distinguished Men Give Pointers on College Publications in Addresses

Thirty-five delegates representing 17 publications from leading institutions of learning throughout the state were in attendance at the eighth semi-annual
convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, May 1, 2, and 3, at Elon College. Four delegates represented Davidson
periodicals. They were Liston Elkins, president of the association; Chalmers McIlwaine, editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian; Kenneth McAlpin, business manager of
the Davidsonian; Linton Deck, member of Davidson College Magazine staff.

The association in business session Saturday morning passed resolutions favoring the giving of college credit for work done on student
publications. The growing popularity of the publications as an incentive to literary endeavor and creation, and the importance of the
publications in student life, as evidenced by recognition in a number of North Carolina institutions, where college credit is allowed,
was advanced as an argument to support the resolution. A resolution was also passed favoring compulsory subscription to all student
publications, through term fees, on the part of all students. The fee, according to the measure adopted, would be paid
at matriculation. This plan is in operation in the majority of North Carolina colleges. The standardization of the column width
for all member publications was advocated to facilitate the sale of foreign advertising. This width was set at 12 1/4
pica ems.

Dean Louise Savage, of Elon College, welcomed the delegates, following the invocation by Rev. S. M. Lynam, at the opening
session Thursday evening. The convention sessions were held in the Society Hall of the new Alamance building. The principal addresses
were delivered by Walt Fillans, advertising expert of Greensboro; Prof. H. Babcock, of the English Department of Elon; Doctor Harper,
president of Elon, and Rev. S. M. Lynam. Mr. Fillans discussed the subject Points On Advertising at the Thursday night
session. Professor Babcock, following a short address by (Continued on page 8)

Student Council Is Installed At Tuesday Meeting

The new Student Council for the ensuing year was duly inaugurated after the chapel exercises Monday morning. The official oath
was given to them by the retiring president, Albert Hillhouse, in the presence of an attentive student body. The members
of the council are: Hendrix, chairman; Beall, Patton, Oeland, Briggs, Covington, Seniors; Baker, Sappenfield, Shaw, Hollingsworth, Juniors; Covington, Pinkney, Christian,
Sophomores. The above named are significant of ability and diligence to duty, therefore a most successful year is predicted.

After taking the oath, the council was charged by Mr. Williams, Y. M. C. A. secretary, in a brief but
impressive talk. He stressed the importance of the responsibility laid upon them and gave as reason for their exerting every
effort to uphold their position, the duty they owed to the student body, to the alumni, to the administration, and
to themselves. Concluding the installation, Jim Hendrix, the incoming president of the student body, made several appropriate remarks, especially emphasizing
the need of absolute cooperation on the part of the student body, and strict observance to the constitution.

Operatic Airs Heard In Recital of Concert Club

Carolina Concert Club Pleases Davidson Audience With Well Selected Program

A feast for the lovers of music was the concert given by the Carolina Concert Club in Shearer Hall, Friday
evening, May 5th. Appearing this night were some of the foremost vocal artists of the Carolinas, men and women whose
names have appeared as leaders upon many concert programs. The concert lasted for two hours, with 12 scheduled numbers, and
almost as many more encore numbers. The company carried a total of 17 persons, 12 men, five ladies, one being
the director. Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker is director and pianist of the club, and to her must go the major
part of just credit and praise which is due the company.

The program consisted of five numbers by the men members of the club, in chorus, two male solo numbers, three
female solo numbers, as well as a quartet number and a sextette rendering the Sextette from Lucia. The features of
the evening were “Air de Barber Seville,” given by Mr. Will Neal; two songs, “Spring’s a Lovable Lady,” and “Molly
Darling,” both given by Scott Gibson, tenor of the club, and the “Sextette from Lucia,” sung by Mesdames Sloan and
(Continued on page 6)

Theta Upsilon Omega Is Name of National Frat

Phi Alpha Pi Formerly Received Charter Friday Night—Seventh National Fraternity Here

The national induction ceremonies of Theta Upsilon Omega Fraternity, a newly organized national fraternity, were held in 10 colleges throughout
the country, including Davidson College, at midnight, May 2. The local chapter of this fraternity grew out of a local
organization known as Phi Alpha Pi, organized two years ago on the campus. At a meeting in New York City,
December 1, at which 80 local fraternities were represented, 10 such bodies were selected as a tentative organization, later to
expand into a more cosmopolitan organization. This outgrowth from the Interlocal Fraternity Conference was temporarily given the name of Phi
Kappa Pi, assuming the designation of one of the 10 locals. At a conference held at Bucknell University, February 22,
of this year, plans of the organization were completed, and from it merged a well-rounded national fraternity, Theta Upsilon Omega.
The local organization will be known as the Kappa Alpha chapter of that fraternity.

The 10 chapters are located at Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Stevens Polytechnic Institute, Temple University, Bucknell University, Penn State, New Hampshire,
Illinois, Westminster College, George Washington University, and Davidson College. The age of these chapters ranges from three to 70 years,
and the alumni list carries many important names. Among them are the two most outstanding, Dr. Conway, president of Temple
University, and noted for his lecture entitled Acres of Diamonds, and Admiral Sims, of the United States Navy, as well
as several prominent judges of the mid- (Continued on page 6)

DR. W. J. MARTIN ELECTED TO G. S. E.

At the recent meeting of the Gamma Sigma Upsilon Chemical Fraternity, Dr. W. J. Martin, President of Davidson College, was
elected to honorary membership in the fraternity. Doctor Martin, before he became president of Davidson College, was the head of
the chemistry department. He holds degrees from Davidson, Johns-Hopkins, and the University of Virginia, and has done a great amount
of research work along chemical lines. The fraternity feels especially honored in having such a man counted among its members.

Davidsonian Is Voted the Best Paper In State

At the eighth semi-annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, held at Elon College, May 1, 2, and
3, The Davidsonian was voted the best college paper in the state by the delegates from the various publications. The
Trinity Archive was selected as the best magazine. The Executive Committee of the Association selected the three best papers and
the three best magazines and each delegation was allotted one vote for the best. The Davidsonian, Trinity Chronicle, and Tar
Heel were chosen as the three leading papers of the Association by the committee. The Davidson College Magazine was among
the three magazines selected, together with the Trinity Archive and the Wake Forest Student. It is the policy of the
Association each spring to select the best publications of the two types. Both publications which were selected received a majority
on the first vote. Under the leadership of Liston Elkins, The Davidsonian has had the best year in its history,
ranking with the best college publications in the South. The make-up of the paper is due to the cooperation of
the PresbyterianStandard Publishing Company, which publishes the paper. Due to the fact that the paper is printed in Charlotte, 20
miles away, proof cannot be read and other difficulties in make-up and advertising are encountered. Despite these disadvantages, the work
has been systematized to such an extent that only once or twice during the entire year has the paper come
out late. The advent of the new staff marks the beginning of the decade of The Davidsonian’s history, the first
10-year period ending when the 1923-24 staff retired early in April.

INFORMARY NEWS
Only three men were confined to the infirmary during the past week. P. B. Freeland and Perry Priest had a
case of flu and G. McMillan has a slight attack of appendicitis.

EDITOR AND WRITER IS SUNDAY “Y” SPEAKER
Rev. Wade C. Smith, pastor of the Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road, in Greensboro, will speak at the “Y” service Sunday. Mr. Smith has
been in the ministry only a few years, but in that time he has become noted for his service. He
has been editor of The Missionary Survey and Onward. He also wrote the preface for the famous Testament, Fishers of
Men. Mr. Smith is a man recognized for his rare ability and wit and will have an appropriate message for
the student body of Davidson.

Price Wins State Tennis Championship In Tournament at Greensboro Country Club
Davidson Net Star Keeps up Wildcat Record by Netting Championship in State Meet
HARD FIGHT WITH SOLOMON
Carolina Man Sticks to Bitter End With Harry Price But Routed in Final Sets

Wildcat Nine Honored At Feast By Gaston Alumni
Prominent Gaston County Alumni Speak at Banquet Saturday
Clean Athletic Record Urged

The banquet tendered the Wildcat baseball team Saturday evening by the Gaston County Alumni was a happy ending to the
1924 schedule. This affair, held at the Gastonia Country Club, was an enjoyable one indeed to both the team and
the alumni and students gathered at the banquet table. The live organization had spared no pains to make the occasion
one of benefit and pleasure.

At 7:00 o'clock, the members of the team, the coaches, several members of the student body, and a large number
of loyal alumni of Gaston County, drove out to the clubhouse, where the feast had been spread. Hugh A. Query,
president of the Association, acted as toastmaster and called on prominent alumni as well as members of the team, to
make short speeches. Each speaker added his bit to the general trend of talk, and gave his viewpoint on this
side of Davidson's work that it has always prided itself upon. Applause followed each speech, especially when a point was
driven home, relating to the betterment of the college and its ideals.

(Continued on page 5)

Charlotte Editor Makes Impressive “Y” Address
Challenges Students to Develop Intelligence to Accomplish Individuality

Challenges Faced by the College Men of Today was the subject taken by Mr. Julian Miller in his address before
the “Y” at the regular Vesper Service, Sunday evening. Mr. Miller is news editor of the Charlotte News. “No challenge
came to the college men of my day as comes to the present-day college man,” began the speaker. “The civilization
of today does not at all measure up to all the calls for civilization.” Mr. Miller reviewed the many mechanical
inventions and revolutions of the age, and brought out the fact that at present man has more physical power in
his control than ever before. “What I am interested in, before I am willing to let the young men of
today go out with all their renewed forces, is what he will do with his increased powers. What will the
future do with its increased powers? What channels will this new power be exerted in?

“The challenges to the young college men come under three main subjects. The first is that of development of his
personality. The soulfulness of the nation is in danger of being lost by the increasing prominence of machinery. The challenge
to the men just coming into the use of their powers is to recover the power of personal expression. Machines
are being given the work to do, and man is becoming subject to machinery.”

The speaker brought out the statement, made by prominent men, that the public press of the nation has become subjected
to the mechanics of the profession.

(Continued on page 6)

Harry Price, Davidson's star tennis player, won the state tennis championship in the North Carolina Intercollegiate Tennis Association tournament, played
on the courts of the Greensboro Country Club, last Saturday, May 3. In the finals he defeated Abram Solomon, representing
the University of North Carolina, in a lengthy five-set fight, 4-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-0, 6-4. Besides winning the state title,
Price was elected president of the North Carolina Intercollegiate Tennis Association, taking the place of retiring President Bruten, of Carolina.
Solomon was elected vice-president, and Angulesto, Wake Forest Freshman star, secretary-treasurer. Staley, Beall, and Trotter all defeated their first opponents
in the first go-round, but met defeats in their second matches. In the doubles, Staley and Price went to the
semi-finals, but were eliminated by Carolina.

Coming through to the finals, Price defeated Smyre, of Lenoir, 6-1, 3-6, 6-2; Whisnant, of Trinity, 6-2, 6-3; and Smith,
of Carolina, 6-3, 8-6. The match with Smith was one of the hardest in the upward climb, and forced Price
to show his best style. His refusal to give up in the face of set points and his brilliant finish
gave him the match. Solomon took the first two sets, although working hard all the time. Both were about the
same strength at the beginning of the match, but a long match was apparent soon after the start. Solomon's natural
let-up after winning the first two sets was the cause of his defeat. Price's greater endurance, while continually pounding his
opponent’s backhand, brought him 12 games in succession, after dropping the first two games of the third set. In the
fourth set, Solomon went almost entirely to pieces and could not make any of his strokes come right. His back-court
strokes fell short, while his volleys and overhead were anything but steady. In the final set, Solomon came back strong
and threatened to take the match. Price started off with a two-game lead but Solomon’s rally brought the score up
to two all.

(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Parties Plan Extensive Journeys Abroad
On June 14th, Miss Cornelia Shaw will leave New York for Cherbourg, France, on the Cunard liner Mauretania. Miss Shaw
is going with a party of North Carolinians. The party is made up of 10 or 12 persons, this number
having been found by the touring companies to be the most desirable size. The party is going to take one
of the Babcock Tours. The party expects to arrive at Cherbourg on the 16th. The Mauretania is one of the
fastest passenger ships afloat and at one time made a record run from New York to Cherbourg in four days
and 11 hours. The party will spend about a month in Italy. Short visits will be made in the countries
of Holland, Belgium, and Switzerland. The trip is planned so that the party will be in Paris to attend the
Olympic Games. The return trip will be made about August 25, arriving at New York on September 1st.

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin, Miss Eloise Martin, and Miss Dickson Vardell, of Red Springs, N. C., will sail
on the United States liner steamer, the Magnolia. Miss Vardell is a niece of Mrs. Martin and is now social
secretary of the First Presbyterian Church.

(Continued on page 6)
