| THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.....Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN...........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Assistant Managing Editor........Peanut Parcher
Associate Editor..................A. iate Editor
Associate Editor..................Alumni Editor
Athletic Editor....................Fool Editor

Business Staff
Subscription Manager.............J. M. GARRISON
Bookkeeper.......................P. GLADNEY
Service Manager..................D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
Typist............................A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
M. APPLEBY
J. D. LAWS
I. M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. BRANCH
GARNETT McMILLAN
V. S. BROYLES
J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
E. P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. THOMPSON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL COURTESY

Courtesy is defined as general and habitual politeness. By definition, therefore, courtesy is characteristic of every gentleman. True courtesy, however,
is something more than mere politeness; it embodies the spirit of chivalry which grew up during the middle ages. Chivalry
came to be an elaborate ceremonial with very little of its original spirit inculcated into it, but the spirit lives
on today, expressing itself in true courtesy.

Courtesy is regarded as an essential at Davidson, and discourteous conduct is frowned on by everyone. When the Davidson band
played “Hark, the Sound of Tar Heel Voices,” the University alma mater, at the Carolina game, they exhibited true courtesy
to a visiting team, a courtesy which was remarked by Carolina alumni. Athletic courtesy is more easy to regulate than
other forms of gentlemanly conduct, because of the fact that the students realize that upon their courtesy and sportsmanship will
be formed the judgment of the outside world. To reflect credit on the institution of which we are members should,
by no means, be the only incentive to courteous conduct. We should take into consideration also the effect on our
own individual characters. Both of these motives should prompt us to practice courtesy at all times. Upon our behavior at
public functions depends both our own good name, and the good name of Davidson College.

Last week when the Greensboro College Glee Club gave a performance in Shearer Hall, the mood and behavior of the
audience was such as to give to an outsider an untrue impression of Davidson courtesy. The conduct of the students
was such as to lower the impressions of the gentlemanliness of Davidson students. Proper courtesy was not shown to the
ladies who performed, and the scene at the close came near to being an exhibition of rowdyism. While college students
everywhere are notoriously free with remarks at picture shows and entertainments, there are times when even college students should conform
to the dictates of common courtesy and good breeding. Allowances can be made for the freedom at the movies, but
we must be careful about the impressions which visiting entertainers carry back with them from our campus. The discourtesy to
outsiders cannot be swept aside with the old excuse that it is due to the irrepressible good spirits of youth.
Discourtesy anywhere must be faced squarely and regarded as such. It is our responsibility to see that no other visitors
carry away memories such as the singers carried back the other night. We do not believe that Davidson students are
intentionally discourteous; we believe that thoughtlessness was largely responsible for the behavior of the audience. But whatever the cause for
any discourtesy, it cannot be excused. The facts remain.

The Davidson spirit embodies in it the elements of giving the best that is in us to our college, and
keeping the good name of that college unsullied by showing the best that is in us to others. Upon us
depends our own reputation and that of Davidson College. Let us keep them both up to the standard which Davidson
has always set.

THANKSGIVING

TODAY, the last Thursday in November, is a day set apart throughout our nation as a day of thanksgiving, a
day on which to review and acknowledge the mercies which God has bestowed upon us during the year just past.
We look upon Thanksgiving Day, in some measure, as a strictly American institution, although history shows that from the earliest
times man has set apart certain days on which to thank some higher power, either for general good or for
some special dispensation which he received.

The ancient Jews kept the Feast of Ingathering when for seven days they held elaborate ceremonies celebrating the harvest, and
acknowledging God’s goodness to them. The harvest, with its showers of grain and abundance of fruit, was to them the
symbol of all which they received, and they acknowledged the goodness of a higher power by a week of thanksgiving,
a week in which the thank offering played an important part.

The Greeks and Romans, also, with their conception of a pantheon of deities, recognized that the goods which they derived
came from some higher power, and gave thanks to the gods, holding festivals to mollify their wrath and keep them
well disposed toward their earthly followers. The Greeks held a nine-day feast to Demeter, the goddess of the corn fields
and harvest, offering fruits, wine, honey, and milk at her altar. The Roman Cerelia was a feast dedicated to Ceres,
the counterpart of the Greek Demeter. Both of these pagan feasts of thanksgiving degenerated into heathen orgies of uncontrolled sensuousness,
the original purpose being subordinated to the pleasure of the revelers.

On down through the centuries, feasts of thanksgiving continued, some sects modifying the general rule by fasting during the periods
of thanksgiving. The English Harvest Home was a day very much like the ancient Jewish feasts, with the additional feature
of sports on the common added. The harvest was a time of gaiety, for it represented the fulfillment of the
work of a whole year. The English fell into the habit of holding days of thanksgiving in commemoration of every
happening of note, which affected the life of the nation. The defeat of the Spanish Armada was celebrated by such
a day; the recovery of King George from his insanity was the cause of another holiday. The desire for holidays
made days of thanksgiving a common occurrence. Similar days were observed in France and Germany, but they never degenerated to
the level of the holidays in England.

The first thanksgiving in America was held on the shores of Newfoundland in 1578. The English explorers swept the beach
and gave thanks to God for his goodness and mercy. In 1607 the Popham Colony who settled at Sagadahoc, Maine,
held services of thanksgiving. The first real Thanksgiving Day observed in America, however, was the celebration made by the Pilgrim
fathers. December 13, 1621 was the day appointed by Governor Bradford of the Plymouth Colony for giving thanks to God,
and on that day the dwindling band of settlers held the first American Thanksgiving. The courage characterized the setting apart
of a day for thanksgiving. In the light of giving seems a piece of bitter irony. Famine and disease during
that first winter had swept away half of those who had established the colony. The end of the first year
found the colony diminished by half, with small prospects of successful colonization.

Open Forum Chaff
(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

COACH MONK REQUESTS!

Coach Monk Younger wishes to engage the cooperation of the entire student body in preventing any basketball playing on the
court in the Alumni Gymnasium while street shoes are being worn. This request is nothing beyond a plea for fair
play to the varsity basketball team. All who are in any way familiar with the indoor court game realize the
impossibility of good basketball upon a court dented and scratched beyond all smoothness. The Davidson team will be placed at
a distinct disadvantage when playing away from home should they have to practice on such a court. Everyone also realizes
the impossibility of a court in anything better than the worst condition as long as the present custom of street-shoeBasketball
continues. Coach Younger says that each individual should refrain from this and also should try to build up a college
sentiment against it. Coach Monk also wishes to ask all tennis playing in the gymnasium to cease. This request arises
from the fact that the great number of broken window panes—broken by tennis balls—have been replaced. The above two requests
are nothing more than to comply with them is simply supporting the Davidson coaches and the Davidson teams. L. D.
W., Jr. feeling of pleasure over the fact that an extra day of rest has been included in the week;
one more day when the body may rest. The thank offering which was a feature of the Jewish feast is
another phase of the Thanksgiving season which we are prone to neglect. While thanking God for his mercies to us,
we should remember those with whom life has not dealt so gently. The helping of the needy at Thanksgiving is
a concrete test of our thankfulness, and one which we should not overlook.

The past year has been a red-letter year in Davidson history. The campaign for the rebuilding of Chambers was brought
to a successful conclusion; the enrollment was the greatest in her history; the morale of the College has been raised
to a point which it has seldom reached in former years; the development of a well-organized plan of athletics has
been begun; and old Davidson has a wider sphere of influence than ever before. Today is a day of real
thanksgiving; God has been good to us. May we in a spirit of humbleness offer thanks to Him, and remembering
the achievements of the past, look forward to a still greater year of service for Davidson in every line.

THE GRAND FINALE

Both the Varsity and Freshman football teams have made records this year of which we are proud. The fighting team
has almost completed another season. Today the curtain falls on football; it is the last act, the Davidson-Trinity game. Upon
this game depends our standing in the 1924 scramble for state grid honors. The Red and Black machine goes into
its final game with a record of six victories, two defeats, and one tie game. Coach Younger's Warriors have scored
one hundred and five points while their opponents were making twenty-five. Only twice in nine games has their goal line
been crossed. Four field goals make up the extra points. But all this record is behind us. The game today
will tell the story, for the present is what counts.

Never has a scrappier bunch of Wildcats represented Davidson than this year’s team. Under Coaches Younger and Tilson they have
molded into a Red and Black machine composed of eleven well-oiled and smooth-working cogs. The men turned over by Coach
Rawson from last year’s freshman squad have had a large share in the season’s success. Next year another well-trained team
will be turned over to the Varsity squad. The Freshman team, despite their crushing defeat by Furman, have had a
successful year, winning six games. For the second straight year, we have had winning Fresh teams. To Coach Rawson belongs
the credit.

Coach Monk has made wonderful headway against odds in the short time he has been Athletic Director. Ably assisted by
Coach Tilson in the line, and Coach Rawson with the Freshmen, he has built a team which can truly be
called a Younger team. We have faith in our coaches, we have faith in the men who are fighting for
Davidson’s honor, and whatever the outcome of today’s game, we will still back them to the limit. The curtain is
falling on Davidson’s 1924 football schedule, but the curtain has just risen on the biggest success in Davidson’s athletic history.
May the curtain never fall.

THE FIRST THANKSGIVING

The whole tribe of the Chocoloco Indians had just come back from the happy hunting grounds in the Socku valley,
and all of them were in high spirits. Chief Koolumoff was sitting in his flivver out on the boulevard smoking
an El Ropa and reading the latest edition of the Smart Set Magazine. He was right in the middle of
a thriller about a beautiful young lady who had just fled from the dance in terror of her life. Her
escort had become drunk and had mistaken her for the waitress, terrifying her and causing her to flee for her
life. She had fled down the street in the darkness and had stumbled over a flea which hopped up, making
such a noise that it almost petrified her. Just at this point the three rear tires blew out, scaring the
poor flivver so badly that it immediately took to the old barn in haste. Chief Koolumoff was so surprised and
dumbfounded that he could hardly keep his wits about him, but when he at last came back to normal and
found that he was unhurt, he locked the steering wheel, dumped an extra bucket of oats and two extra bundles
of fodder in the trough, and put the old laprobe over the hood, he hung up the bridle, turned off
the light and started to the wigwam.

Upon his arrival at the kitchen door, his squaw, old Minnihehaw, turned on the faithful vacuum cleaner, drawing the old
chief close enough in order to enable her to dash a hot bowl of chop suey all over the front
of his vest, at the same time wanting to know why he had not cut the stovewood before he left,
and what he meant by going to work without leaving her enough money to pay the butcher and the ice
man. All of this was too much for the bewildered old white-man scalper, and in a fit of fury he
grabbed up the telephone and threw it at his beloved, striking her on the fifth rib, instantly killing her. When
the chief saw that she was dead he took down his bow, sharpened his arrows on the old grindstone, filled
his steam-heated percolator, put on his patent leather dancing pumps, called the police, cranked up his faithful old Fierce Sparrow,
called to his old pointer, and started off into highway number 26. When all of his tribe saw that their
chief was leaving they immediately followed, making a stream of cars, of all makes, ranging from the old ex-cart up
to the Twin Liberty. After a chase of about fifty miles the pursuers came upon old Koolumoff, sitting under the
shade of a road roller, smoking his old El Ropa. As soon as the tribe had collected around their leader
he ordered that his wigwam be set in the shade of the blackberry patch on the left of the road,
and that his people encamp themselves around them. In less than three days everything was straightened out and all the
tribe was living peaceably.

Upon inquiry Chief Koolumoff was informed that the national treasury was totally defunct. When he learned this, the chief got
his set of jimmies and his bag of dynamite and set out for the great metropolis, otherwise known as Sedberry’s
Crossing. Going to the City Bank and Farmer's Loan and Trust Company, Koolumoff made a haul which took three red-men
to transport to the waiting wheelbarrow. Arriving back at camp unharmed, the chief proclaimed a day to set aside in
Thanksgiving. The day was to be divided into two parts, the first half of the day to be spent in
thanksgiving, and the last half to be spent in giving thanks.

THINGS THAT DAVIDSON STUDENTS SHOULD BE THANKFUL FOR

Cuts that are most graciously donated by the professors.
Boardinghouse steak.
Empty post office boxes.
Holidays, such as Thanksgiving.
Dad, the check writer.
Boxes of eats from home.
Bull sessions.

THINGS THEY ARE UNGRATEFUL FOR

Cuts not donated by the professors.
Boardinghouse steak.
Empty post office boxes.
Only one holiday at Thanksgiving.
That check that did not come.
Boxes of eats without fried chicken.
Bull sessions in our rooms.

If you are riding three or four crips and are having it pretty easy, just be thankful that you are
not taking Greek Two, Chemistry Three C, Mathematics Two, Philosophy Six, Physiology and Hygiene Four. G. McM., Jr.
