THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

The Frozen Faced Comedian in Our Hospitals

A Spectacular Seven-Reel Comedy of a Kentucky Feud a Hundred Years Ago. Directed by Buster Keaton and Jack Blystone

Movie Notes

Thomas Finch, 104 years old, who came to California during the first gold rush, saw his second railroad train at
Truckee, Cal., recently, while Buster Keaton was making his Metro comedy, “Our Hospitality.” Finch saw his first railroad train in
1831. He has lived in the mountains for more than 60 years. Buster showed him his “Rocket” engine, of the
primitive type used on American railroads about 1825. Finch looked long at the engine and coaches. “So that’s the latest
railroad machinery,” he mused. “Well, it do beat all what wonderful improvements human nature is making. Things ain’t changed much
since I was a boy, howsoever. I remember travelin’ over the B. & O. railroad on a train of cars
just like that back in 1831 when I was about 12 years old.”

Come and see an accurate description of the historic “first trip” of the “Rocket,” the iron monster that revolutionized the
transportation system of America in 1830. You’ll laugh so hard you won't realize you're being instructed.

“The Eternal City” is coming next week. Don't fail to see it.

The boys out in town who belong to the Hi-Y Club want to take a camping trip soon, and the
Y. M. C. A. is going to give them a special show this week (Thursday night at 7:30) in order
that the receipts will help defray the expenses. By a streak of good luck one of the most laughable comedies
of the season—Douglas McLean, in “Going Up”—has been secured for the occasion. There will also be a good two-reel comedy
in connection and everyone coming out is sure of enjoying a good program. Admission, 25 cents.

Thursday Night Show

The management takes this means of calling the students’ attention to the show to be held Thursday night, the proceeds
to go to the local Hi-Y Club, which is doing a good work among the boys of the high school.
The picture, “Going Up,” with Douglas McLean and Marjorie Daw starring, is a clean, wholesome comedy with the keenest of
action and plot and not a dull foot of film. Many say that this is one of the best comedies
of the season. It’s thrilling too, just wait until the airplane scenes where all kinds of hair-raising stunts are pulled.

In order that the literary society men may see all the show, the first two reels will be shown over
after the main show, which will begin at 7:30. The admission is two-bits. In connection there will be a comedy,
“No Loafing,” with “Poodles” Hanneford, the famous Hippodrome star, as a headliner.

Misses Sarah Withers and Mary Grace Brown leave Friday to spend a few days with Mrs. Douglas Brown in Greensboro.

R. O. T. C. News

A. C. (Buck) Burns 5’ 8”

Davidson has had some great fullbacks in the past, but none greater than Buck Burns, and although Sumter has sent
some great athletes to Davidson, she has done no greater service than when she sent Alvin Caruthers Burns. Buck entered
school in 1915 and immediately showed his excellence in the game of “Hearts and Fists.” He made scrub football his
first year and then played Varsity for two. In addition to his football proclivities he played both baseball and basketball.
Burns was a member of Kappa Sigma fraternity. In commenting on Burns the Quips and Cranks for 1918 says: “Buck
made all-state last year, this year mentioned all-Southern, so next year, as captain, we will expect him to make all-American.
As a line plunger he has no equal and no end has yet been found who could stand up under
his smashing interference. In the Navy game his work stood out above all the rest, and to him the credit
for our showing in that game is due.” “The great fullback dashed around end and completely ran over Strupper.”—Atlanta Journal,
Tech game. Buck was truly a great player, playing in the same backfield with Henry Spann, Jack Black and Buck
Flowers. In addition to being a fine athlete, Buck was and is, a true, likeable gentleman. At present he is
in the hardware business in Sumter, S. C.

I. R. C. CONVENTION (Continued from page 1)

Many notable and able speakers followed him, and from the conference a permanent association was formed, embracing 10 Southern States
with conferences to be held annually. The general purpose of the association is to bring closer together these groups of
Southern students interested in world conditions into a yearly conference for the purpose of studying and discussing those problems most
pertinent to our nation’s and the world’s welfare.

A committee on constitution drew up a report which was ratified by those present and the organization thus formed was
given the name of The Southern Students Association on International Relations. Officers for the coming year were elected as follows:
President, J. A. Gathings, Furman; 1st vice-president, Miss Dorothy Keith, Agnes Scott; 2nd vice-president, Miss Rhoda Ellison, Randolph-Macon; corresponding secretary,
Miss Kate M. Betts, Winthrop; recording secretary, M. B. Wallace, Wofford; treasurer, Miss Nancy Day, G. W. C. The meeting
next year will be held at Winthrop College. A debate between representative schools in the association is a feature of
the program planned by the committee.

MAN’S MEASURE IS INCOME—GOD’S MEASURE IS OUTGO

Dr. W. W. Moore, president of Union Theological Seminary, spoke to the Ministerial Band last Sunday afternoon. After the song
service led by Joe Garrison, the Scripture lesson was read by Paul Freeland. The lesson was taken from Acts 20:28-35.

Dr. Moore took as the basis of his talk the words of Paul: “It is more blessed to give than
to receive.” He first told of the beautiful Lake Itasca, in Minnesota, which is at the head of the Mississippi
River. This lake is fed by the streams from the mountains, and in turn waters the wheat fields, then forms
the head of the great Mississippi. It is not the lake that forms the river alone, but the lake is
made more beautiful and more useful because of it. On the other hand, the Great Salt Lake of Utah, and
the Dead Sea have no outlets, but hold all the water which flows into them. As a consequence they are
salty, there is no life in them or onTheir banks. They receive but do not give. That it is more
blessed to give than to receive sounds paradoxical at first, but it is true. Giving requires life and action. One
who receives is like a bucket which does not need life to receive the things poured into it. The strength
of the human body is kept by giving. If it were not for exercise the body would become weak and
useless. The Bible gives proof that it is more blessed to give than to receive in the words: “There is
that scattereth yet increaseth; there is that holdeth to meat but is impoverished.”

Trip to New York.

Held in Atlanta, February 29th.

Of the local unit.

COLONEL FALLS INSPECTS LOCAL UNIT

The recent inspection by Col. Moore N. Falls, R.O.T.C. officer Fourth Corps Area, was the most thorough the unit has
had since its organization. The work done to date was investigated in minute detail. The hours devoted to each subject,
theoretical and practical, with resulting grades by each student per month, received his closest attention. The grade that each student
received during the first semester formed another record that was studied very closely. The Freshman marksmanship record, with an average
of over 40 for every man in the class, was also given very close study.

Every section of classroom work, with the exception of one only, was visited and in doing this the Colonel was
interested particularly in classroom facilities—the number of students in each section, and the preparation of lessons. As it was impractical
to have outdoor drill (due to the melting snow), one company drilled in the gymnasium to demonstrate the degree of
proficiency attained in close order, squad, and platoon drill, and company calisthenics. “D” Company was chosen for the gymnasium drill
since the first platoon in that company won out in the platoon competition. The Colonel's final comment on all that
he had observed was, “I am glad that I came at just such a time as this, for if you
are this good under such weather conditions, I know that you must be all right.” So it seems that the
Colonel was very much impressed with our unit and from what was gathered from all his remarks, it is expected
that he will give a very favorable report.

Association of R.O.T.C. Colleges

A meeting of the Association of R.O.T.C. Colleges of the Fourth Corps Area was held in Atlanta, February 29th. Davidson
College was represented by Captain Weems. The topic of most interest to Davidson was the matter of commutation of uniform
for all classes in Senior Divisions, R.O.T.C. Beginning next year Davidson will have commutation of uniforms for the Advanced Course
Students, and within two years it is believed that there will be a distinctive R.O.T.C. uniform for all classes of
the Division. It is interesting to note that during the past year the War Department received 58 applications for R.O.T.C.
units which could not be filled. Dr. Harvey W. Cox, president of Emory University, was elected president of the association,
and Dr. W. J. Martin, of Davidson, vice-president.

BARRAGE OF SNOW (Continued from page 1)

Since the ammunition was more suitable to the latter. Immediately after the mid-day repast the rapidly accumulating crowd of icemen
gathered in front of Miss Minnie’s Emporium and snowed under the later Post Officers who permeated the scenery around Captain
Cranford’s and Uncle Sam's shop. A few scattering balls were thrown, but most were reserved for later in the afternoon.
After the Greenies had been run to the dormitories, they were ferreted out in rotation, beginning with the Barracks and
continuing up unto Rumple, where new boys were forced to run to escape the veritable avalanches of glaceous substance that
struck them. Many chose to run the line down the row of dormitories and the Sophs made merry with the
free targets and ammunition while the arena held forth. Some of the reluctant ones were haled forth and doused, others
seemed to revel in the cold stuff. All in all it was a fine afternoon, until “Lias Faison got smart
with some of his brilliant raillery, and the bad boys knocked his door down and put mean old snow down
his neck. He was going off, too, and all dressed up.

YOUNG ROMEO CAPTURES FAIR JULIET

The majority of the student body, and quite a number of alumni, will be interested to learn of the recent
marriage of James Polk, ex-'25. Polk will be remembered as the queer talking boy from New Jersey. The marriage took
place in Atlanta, Ga., on January 9, 1924. The lady's name before her marriage to young Polk was Miss Lula
Belle Barnes. Polk, in reporting this item of news to a friend on the campus, remarked that nothing could beat
married life. He gave a vivid description of the fair “Juliet,” and one part of the description is especially striking—that
giving the height of his bride—four feet, five inches. This is quite a contrast to the height of the groom,
it being something like six feet two or more. Although the news of this marriage is somewhat of a surprise
to some, it will not be to those who knew Polk, for he was and continues to be noted for
doing the unusual.

CAROLINA’S LEADING CLEANERS and DYERS

“PARTICULAR WORK FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE”

AMERICAN DRY CLEANING CO.
1406-08 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
K. S. McALPIN College Representative

MICHAEL FARADAY 1791-1867

Apprentice to an English bookbinder. Attracted the attention of Sir Humphrey Davy, becoming his assistant. “The greatest experimentalist of all
times,” says one biographer. The electrical unit Farad was named for him. In 1880 the Edison Electric Illuminating Company, of
New York City, installed a generator of 1200 lamps capacity, then considered a giant. By continuous experimentation and research the
General Electric Company has developed generators 900 times as powerful as this wonder of forty years ago.

“What’s the use of it?”

Michael Faraday saw the real beginning of the age of electricity nearly a century ago when he thrust a bar
magnet into a coil of wire connected with a galvanometer and made the needle swing. Gladstone, watching Faraday at work
in his laboratory, asked, “What’s the use of it?” The experimenter jestingly replied, “There is every probability that you will
soon be able to tax it.” The world-wide use of electricity that has followed the Faraday discovery abundantly justifies the
retort to Gladstone. Faraday’s theory of lines of force is constantly applied in the Research Laboratories of the General Electric
Company in devising new electrical apparatus of which Faraday never dreamed. Every generator and motor is an elaboration of the
simple instruments with which he first discovered and explained induction.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
