DAVIDSONIAN ~ THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 17, 1924 No. 26

DAVIDSON DEBATERS DOWN EMORY STARS AT QUEENS

Davidson Honor Man Wins Listeners In “Y” Service
Holder of College’s Highest Scholarship Honor Speaks Twice on Sunday

MISSIONARY FROM CHINA
Interesting Habits of Orientals Shown in Addresses Dealing With Chinese

Rev. W. C. McLaughlin, honor man of the class of 1907, was speaker at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening. Mr. McLaughlin is a missionary, with headquarters at Suchien, China, and is in America on furlough. China’s New Leadership was the subject chosen by Mr. McLaughlin in his address before the Y. M. C. A. Acts 4:7-14 was the scripture for the evening.

“The leadership of China has been in the past, is in the present, and will be in the future a student leadership,” began Mr. McLaughlin. “In the past there have been three great religions around which the other lesser religions of that nation were formed.

“The first of these religions was that of Taoism, and around this were founded other forms and beliefs. In the time of Taoism the worshippers were of three kinds. The vast majority of them were worshippers of everything; everything was deified. Another group was the worshippers of nothing, the out and out atheists, and the third group composed of those who worship God.” The speaker told of seeing thousands of people bow down to images of grasshoppers.

“Then came Confucius, the smartest man, and the man who had the greatest effect on China of any mortal man. He gave to them a system of ethics which was far from perfect. The influence of Confucian ethics was seen in the breaking down of moral laws.” Dr. McLaughlin cited an incident of a man betting his wife and losing her to another man, but because the loser was of a higher social class than the winner, the wife was finally brought back to her first husband. Such practices were the outcome of the Confucian system of ethics.

“The third great religion in the past of China is that of Buddhism,” continued the speaker, and in treating of Buddhism he cited (Continued on page 6)

Sunday Service To Have Installation of Officers
Young Ladies From Queens and Symphony Orchestra Will Make Program Attractive

The Y Service for Junior Week, Sunday, will have several attractive features. Three or possibly four girls from Queens will combine with the Davidson College quartet to render at least six selections of special music. Considerable preparation is being made for this part of the program. The installation of officers for the coming year will also be a feature. Ted Jones, as retiring president, will give a short message to the student body from his experience with the Y. M. C. A. work this year. Harry Price will then say a few words as incoming president. The charge to the new officers and the new cabinet will be given by Mr. Jackson. The entire symphony orchestra will probably be present to assist in the singing, which will lend much to the meeting. Ted Jones and the outgoing cabinet unite in urging a large attendance at this the last meeting of the year under the old regime.

Glee Club To Warble Sweet Songs of Love
Not the least attractive feature of Junior Week is the entertainment to be given tomorrow (Friday) night, in Shearer Hall, by the Glee Club and Dramatic Club combination of mirth, melody and motion. This marks the first real appearance of the Davidson College Glee Club on their home grounds, most of their talents and fragrance having been wasted on the desert air of other portions of North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia. A prelude by the Symphony Orchestra will start the program at 8:00 o'clock, and lasting for 15 minutes will give way to a one-act play, The Ghost Story. This play has been especially well gotten up by an excellent cast, including three girls from Charlotte, Misses Charlotte Milstead, Mary Mills Ham and Mildred Cave. Following the play the Glee Club and the Dixieland Novelty Seven will hold full sway until the rafters of the historic Shearer will syncopate in measured cadence with the gay melody of the collegians. The Glee Club has had a successful season this term, meeting with immediate success at every place played. Critics in Georgia and the Carolinas have been loud in their praise of the distinctive work of the Davidson artists, whose success is due to the careful training of Mrs. Baker, from Charlotte, and to the fact that each and every member of the club has taken a personal pride in the organization. Piggy Martin has furnished more than enough humor for (Continued on page 6)

Swatters of Horsehide Continue Losing Streak
Drop Three Straight Games to Trinity, Guilford, and State—New Faces in Line-up

After losing to Trinity in Greensboro 5-0, the Wildcats met the Guilford and State nines on the home diamond by scores of 4-0 and 10-1. The game with Wake Forest last Friday was rained out. Against State the Wildcats broke their string of 36 scoreless innings when Simpson drove Sion Alford across the plate for the lone tally.

Trinity Game
The Trinity Blue Devil nine registered a 5-0 victory over the Wildcat aggregation at Cone Park, in Greensboro, Tuesday, April 8th. Jess Sanderson, twirling for the Methodists, gave up only five scattered bingles, while Boushee and Laird were found for 11 safeties. Scoring for the Blue Devils started in the first frame when Smith opened with a clean single to left, was advanced on Towe's sacrifice, got to third on Turner's single, and tallied when Turner was thrown out at the keystone. The third inning proved fatal to the Wildcats. Again Smith opened with a single to center, Towe sent him to third on another safety, and Smith counted on Alford’s bad throw in. Towe crossed the plate a moment later when S. Alford threw wild to first. Spikes singled to center, Turner tallied and Spikes took second on the throw. Boushee left the mound and Laird turned a double play on the third play, retiring the side without further scoring. The final run of the game was made by Spikes in the seventh stanza. Several times the Wildcats looked good for (Continued on page 8)

He has made an impression upon the campus life by his manifold activities that will prove ineffaceable, and his mark in life is certain to be one of which he can well be proud.

Six Speakers Compete In Junior Oratoricals
Contestants Will Speak for Junior Medal Tonight

The Junior oratorical contest will be held Thursday night, April 17th. The speakers that won places were J. M. Carr, L. B. Gibbs, A. C. Ray, Fred Hopkins,D. B. Wharton and A. M. Martin. Jim Carr will speak on Internationalism. He predicts Internationalism by conciliation and arbitration rather than by war. L. B. Gibbs will have as his subject Noblesse Oblige, which deals with the white man’s duty to the negro. Archie Ray's subject, The Passing of the Caliphate, will give a resume of the contributions of the leading nations of the world as contrasted to the contributions of Turkey in the past and in the future. Fred Hopkins will speak on Brotherhood. In this, he will outline a social program for the church and show the need for more social work. (Continued on page 2)

1924-25 ANNUAL STAFF

Albert Lake, newly-elected Editor-in-chief of next year’s annual, Quips and Cranks, announces his working staff for the coming term:

Literary Editor: A. F. Simpson
Athletic Editor: C. M. S. McIlwaine
Gossip Editor: Pending
Asst. Lit. Editor: E. A. O'Neal
Asst. Art Editor: G. R. Shaddock
Calendar Editor: J. R. Earnest
Business Manager: T. B. Brown

Festival and Roman Circus Feature Week

The long looked-for has arrived, Spring holidays and Junior Speaking are here. Piggy Martin and his committee are through with their plans. Now for their execution. Junior Week started last night with the Harold Lloyd comedy Why Worry, at the gym. It was a good send-off for the occasion, imparting in all the spirit of jollity which will reign throughout the weekend. The feature of the program tonight is the Junior Oratorical contest in which the winners of the try-outs last week will contend for class honors in oratory. Friday afternoon will usher in the first athletics on the bill. The Wildkitten tossers cross bats with Shelby High, on Richardson Field, on that day. The night program, Formal Night, will be featured by a play, The Ghost Story, given by the Dramatic Club, with the assistance of three Charlotte girls. Saturday morning will feature the stepping of the inter-class cinder stars, when a track meet between the classes will be held. In the afternoon the Freshmen will meet Charlotte High, on Richardson Field. Following the game, an outdoor festival and promenade will be held. It is hoped that a Pathe News representative will be present to film the festival for reproduction here at a later date. Saturday night will be the crowning event of the week. The gym will be the location of scenes in “ye olden dayes” of Rome. Those riotous days will be lived over once more, never to be forgotten by those present. (Continued on page 8)

Davidson Admitted to Federation of Colleges

Problems of Student Government Interests Students at State University

Davidson College was admitted to membership in the Southern Federation of College Students at its third annual convention held at the University of North Carolina, April 10-12. The representatives from Davidson were A. M. Hillhouse and J. M. Hendrix, president and president-elect of the student body. Maryland and Mississippi were also received into membership along with Davidson. About 35 delegates were present at this convention, representing 20 schools in nine different states. The convention was opened Thursday morning with an address of welcome by President Chase, of Carolina. The various committees were then appointed; Jim Hendrix was appointed chairman of the Problems committee. Thursday evening was taken up principally with a discussion on college publications, led by Reed Kitchens, president of the Publications Union of Carolina. This discussion included the questions of financing college publications, and of giving credit in English for work done on such. The delegates were entertained with a banquet at the Presbyterian church Thursday night. Friday's session was devoted to a discussion of the vital problems concerning Undergraduate Government, including Student Government, Honor System, Drinking Problem, Dances, Moral Conduct, and an organization to meet visiting athletic teams. It was voted in favor of placing the drinking problem in the hands of the Student Council of each school. A number of delegates requested that the Federation send delegates to their schools to (Continued on page 3)

Fiery Arguments of Wildcats Win Over Georgians

Elkins, Cox, and Story in Best Form of Year Give Georgia Crackers Battle of Forensic Art

RUHR QUESTION IS DEBATED

Maxwell is Star of the Emory Debaters in Contest Held Last Friday

Davidson College won her second intercollegiate debating match for the scholastic year last Friday evening, when she defeated a team from Emory University, in the auditorium at Queens College. The decision of the judges was 4 to 1. The subject discussed was, Resolved That France Is Justified In Her Occupation of the Ruhr. Davidson upheld the affirmative side of the argument. P. J. Story, L. D. Elkins, and W. M. Cox represented Davidson's team, and J. Q. Maxwell, M. Rose, and H. M. Bullock were lined up for Emory. The judges in the debate were Walter Clark, Jr., Wade H. Williams, Bailey T. Groome, and Joseph S. McRae, all of Charlotte, and John G. Wray, of Gastonia. Paul Story opened the debate for Davidson and the affirmative, giving a brief history of the question and presenting the issues of the debate. He proved that France was legally justified in her occupation of the Ruhr, stating that the Treaty of Versailles gave her the legal right, as well as did the League of Nations. He gave quotations disclosing that Germany was in default, and with the Versailles Treaty showed that this was voluntary default, automatically giving France the right to occupy the Ruhr. “From a matter-of-fact standpoint, and from a specific and technical point of view, France is legally justified in her action,” he averred. J. Q. Maxwell opened for Emory, and he is conceded to have been the best speaker for the Methodists, displaying a knowledge of his speech and better speaking ability. He proved that France was acting illegally, and he defied the affirmative to show that Germany had even been declared in voluntary default. Before Liston Elkins began his main speech he read an order of the reparations commission which declared that Germany was in voluntary default, and authorizing France (Continued on page 6)

Colgate Tennis Sharks Win Over Red and Black

Easterners’ Flashy Play Proves Undoing of Wildcats Monday—Price Plays Well

The Colgate University tennis team defeated Davidson's racketeers, Monday afternoon, 4-2; dropping but one singles match and splitting the doubles. The match was featured by Harry Price’s nervy stand against the terrific onslaught of R. T. “Trend” Young, Colgate’s lead man. The New Yorkers’ splendid team play against Price and Staley in the No. 1 doubles also provided thrills for the spectators. Price sprang a surprise in his match against R. T. Young, who is a comer in Junior ranks back East. Harry played his ground strokes too short in the first set and Young's forehand swept him to a loss, 6-3. He came back decisively in the second go and by skillful fore-court work ran it out at 4-6. However, Harry's steadiness failed to cope with the speedy serve and the heavily-topped drive that Young was putting over and the Col- (Continued on page 3)

THRICE WELCOME, VISITORS TO JUNIOR SPEAKING