4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAIN
Managing Editor

KENNETH S. McALPIN
Assistant Managing Editor

W. E. MILTON
Assistant Managing Editor

C. F. MONK
Assistant Managing Editor

A. F. SIMPSON
Peanut Parcher Editor

H. A. LAKE
Associate Editor

J. B. PRICE
Associate Editor

H. L. SHAW
Associate Editor

G. D. ROGERS
Alumni Editor

L. D. WHARTON
Athletic Editor

Business Staff

M. GARRISON
Circulation Manager

V. H. LYNCH
Subscription Manager

R. H. McILWAINE
Bookkeeper

W. McMILLAN
Service Manager

V. P. O'CONNOR
Typist

H. B. PARKER
Typist

U. RATCHFORD
Typist

W. S. WOODS
Typist

EDITORIAL

Back our fighting Wildcat team.

The thin Red line held Richmond safe while the Younger punch in the backfield carried the ball over for the
Wildcat score.

For the first time since 1917 a Wildcat grid team has won three straight games—Elon, P. C., and Richmond.

In '17 the Wildcats wound up their season by beating V. M. I., Furman, Auburn, Wake Forest, Wofford, and Clemson.

The next three games are Wofford, Lenoir, and Furman. The Red and Black machine is fighting for another six in
a row.

The first month’s reviews have been with us during the past week, but their shadow has almost passed and we
can breathe easily once more.

The second month is the crucial period of the term. Those who fell behind have a chance to come to
the front, but those who fail to do so will have a hard row to travel till the end of
the term.

The musical and dramatic organizations at Davidson are starting off with a rush. The band is practicing hard and gives
promise of being the best in several years. The Glee Club has been organized and is getting in trim for
Georgia and Virginia trips. The dramatic club will present a one-act play as a feature of the Stunt Night program
next week.

COME OUT TOMORROW NIGHT

The Johnston C. Smith University quintet and orchestra comes here tomorrow night in behalf of the Davidsonian. The singers, better
known as the Biddle quintet, staged two performances on the local platform last year. The repertoire includes the best negro
spirituals and melody, and orchestral pieces. Biddle has always been well received at Davidson, and their entertainments have been enjoyed
by all who attended them.

This year the concert is for a special cause. A debt of over three hundred dollars was left on the
Davidsonian by the retiring business staff. There is a ruling of the trustees that no publication can be continued until
the debts of the preceding year have been paid. There is also a ruling that no solicitation can be made
among the students. These two rules made it necessary for the Davidsonian to use some other plan to make up
the deficit. As a result, the concert tomorrow night was scheduled, the proceeds to go entirely toward the wiping out
of the debt. If the whole student body attends tomorrow night’s concert, the debt will be entirely wiped out. Upon
the attendance depends the success of the Davidsonian this year.

IRRESPONSIBILITY

The accusation that the college man is incurably irresponsible is often made in correlation with the statement that the modern
college student, or rather inmate, is sadly deficient in scholarship. Both assertions are made in most cases after only a
superficial glance into college life and conditions. Irresponsibility is an evil which is not confined to any class or division
of society, and there is undoubtedly evidence of it among college men—but is it as pronounced an evil as the
older generation would have us believe?

College is a very different place from what it was a generation ago. In the past fifty years its activities
have multiplied to an almost unbelievable extent. If the average college man were transported back to the life of fifty
years ago, it is doubtful if he would survive the shock—the absence of diversion. To the man of fifty years
ago, college was a place where the perusal and mastery of books was the whole beginning and end of existence.
At least, in his criticism of present-day college life, that is what he would have us believe. However, it seems
to us that the same types of diversion must have had some play then, although in varying degrees. The life
of Edgar Allan Poe is a striking refutation of the statement that college life then was Utopian, while now it
has degenerated into a four-year period of waste and dissipation. Was the college man any more responsible then than now?

It is true that a smaller percentage of men were able to secure the advantages of an education in the
early days, and a college degree was less common than now, but allowing for the increased range from which colleges
draw their enrollment, college men are no less responsible than formerly. Where there is no extra-curricular activity, the student has
to have some other diversion from his books, and so the diversion usually was along harmful lines. Now, diversion of
a helpful nature is provided, and this tends to lessen the harmful reaction which comes from excessive work.

Much of the observation of those who criticize collegiate irresponsibility is made when the college man is enjoying diversion from
work. The ability to free oneself from responsibility while enjoying recreation is an asset rather than a liability. Allowance should
be made for the pleasures of youth. Responsibility is a necessary asset to anyone who enters into campus activities. The
managers of teams, players on teams, student body and class officers, editors, and business managers have responsibility heaped upon their
shoulders. Their work does not end with their classroom assignments. The irresponsibility of youth is present to a certain extent,
but who would have a boy miss his youth? The college man of today is irresponsible in certain ways, but
in others, he has advanced beyond his predecessors. Responsibility must be shouldered before a boy can take his place in
the ranks of men. Work both in the classroom and out of it is necessary in its development. Faithfulness in
whatever the work in hand is the mark of the assumption of responsibility. We need to assume the responsibility placed
upon us so as to fit ourselves to face the world and be men. Whether the college man of today
is criticized too harshly or not, there is always room for improvement. Let us face the facts.

PSYCHOLOGICAL TESTS

The annual psychological tests for new men in the student body have been held, and the results will be announced
in the next issue of the Davidsonian. The work of making out statistical reports of averages and percentages is not
yet completed. While no test can be absolutely fair to all, because of the difference in early environment, the grades
on this test will give a fair indication of the ability of the Freshmen. Some may have worked hard on
it, while others loafed on the test, but on the whole, the men with the higher grades have the greater
ability. The grades attained on these tests do not show what station any man will reach in college life. They
merely show the potentialities and possibilities in his mental make-up. They fail to take into consideration the social and moral
side of life, and these exercise a great influence on the success or failure of anyone.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)Monday.)

THOSE WHO PAY

When disputes arise between the capitalist and the laborer, the participants in the discussion sometimes seem to forget that there
is a third party—the public. When a person picks up a newspaper, magazine, or any other periodical, he reads, thinks
of the pleasure it has afforded him, lays it aside, and sometimes forgets that besides himself and the publishers, there
is a third party vitally interested in the publication—the advertisers. They are the men who make the paper possible. Without
them, a publication cannot function. Some people may have the far-fetched idea that through subscriptions, the newspaper or magazine gets
its means of sustenance, but the amount of income from that source is a mere pittance compared with the total
sum necessary to operate.

In the same measure that advertisements play an important part in the big newspapers and magazines, they play a great
part in the Davidsonian. Were it not for the business men advertising, we could not present to the students of
Davidson, alumni, and other readers the paper which is the best in North Carolina by actual vote and conceded by
many to merit the appellation of “the best in the South.” Since advertising means so much to the Davidsonian, it
is only right and just that Davidson students should be patronizers of those concerns which patronize our college weekly. When
the Davidsonian is read, the students should not only read the news matter but should read the advertisements—not merely glance
at them, but read them with interest—see who is advertising in the Davidsonian, and what is being advertised.

It is not an easy matter to obtain advertisements. The business man views advertising in a business-like manner—what will it
profit him and his concern? You cannot appeal to him successfully on sentiment. Sentiment and business do not mix. Occasionally
an alumnus of Davidson is found with a business in this section, but that is rare, and appealing for advertising
on lines of loyalty for the alma mater cannot be used. The solicitor for advertising has to assume the attitude
of business man toward business man. What will I get in return if I advertise? Will Davidson men patronize me?
Do they read the advertisements? These and many other questions, sometimes difficult for the seekers of advertising to answer, come
from the man with the keen, alert business mind.

Charlotte and other nearby places have always responded in a splendid manner with advertising. The business men have been drained
for all kinds of advertisements. Fortunately, this year steps were taken making it a violation of the constitution of the
Davidson student body for anyone to seek advertisements except for specifically stated publications necessary for the Davidson interest. An outsider
obtained advertising for a blotter to be printed, but this was outside the jurisdiction of the student body and no
action could be taken. The rule limiting the solicitation of advertisements was made to protect the business men of nearby
cities—to lessen the constant requests for advertisements, and still more advertisements.

Davidson students have a chance of showing their loyalty to the Davidsonian by patronizing the publication’s advertisers. When the business
man sees that he is getting returns for money expended in this manner, in that same measure will he be
willing to enlarge his space and more gladly greet the solicitors when approached. Read the advertisements, patronize the advertisers, and
benefit the Davidsonian—W. S. M.

Moral stamina which enables a man to stick to his work and develop his potentialities to the limit is the
controlling force in success—whatever the line of activity may be. The mere presence of ability is worthless unless its value
is realized and it is developed. Whatever grade we may have made on these tests—for every boy in school has
been tested—the question which should concern us is whether we have developed our powers to the highest extent. If not—and
who of us has not fallen down in some point—our course is set before us. We must strive ever onward,
making the most of what life has given us so as to be able to face death. Like one who
wraps the draperies of his couch about him, and lies down to pleasant dreams.

The following letters are copies that have been written home by some of the new boys. Some of them have
already had several spells of homesickness, but only a few cases have been fatal:

Davidson, N.C.
Monday.

Dear Ma,

I arrived safe and sound here last Tuesday. We liked not to have caught the train because ole Maude got
to balking and we had to walk the last eighteen miles, and if we had not started the day we
did, we never would have gotten there. I wish you and Pa and Sal and Willie and Amie and Joe
and Peg could be up here to see everything. All of the rooms are right on top of the other,
and there are lots of rooms above the others in every building. Every time a girl comes on the yard,
well all the boys start calling “Fire” and the first time I heard it I like to have hurt myself
getting down to the ground floor because I thought something was burning up but it was only a good looking
girl. Well, I have to stop and study my Bible so as I won’t get shot. Write to me soon,
and tell me how Rover and my hog are.

Your son,
Frank Ebey.

Jaybirdsville, N.C.
Sunday night.

My darling sweetheart,

I have been thinking of you. You don’t know how much I miss you. Ever since I left you there
at the station, I have been thinking of you. Did you ever get home all right? I was worried because
you never know what will happen in these dangerous times. I was up to the library, that is where all
the newspapers are kept, and on the front page of one of them it said where some girl in New
York was robbed and nearly killed by a man just because she wouldn’t give him all her money. I am
not going back to read any more because a lady came in there and asked me to take my hat
off and if I could not stop chewing tobacco and putting my feet on the table and spitting on the
floor to stay out, and she made me mad, because I was only spitting up in a dark corner where
it can’t show, and I didn’t get any on the wall either. There is the funniest fellow up here you
ever saw. His name is Oaky Allison and he thinks he can sing but he can’t and it makes me
laugh to see him do it. One night he was sitting on the steps singing Sweet Adeline and a hound
dog somewhere way off started crying just like ole Towzer does when Deacon Sedberry starts to singing Swing Low, Sweet
Chariot. Say, Hortense, do you really love me? You know I am crazy about you, and I would die if
you didn’t like me. Write to me soon and with a kiss on both cheeks and I hope to die
if I don’t love you.

Your loving,
Joel Rustum.

Much interest is being taken in a contest which is being carried on by two would-be sons of old Davidson.
The contest is in the form of a bath-taking race. It is being run between Spider Webb and Stretched-Out Shelby.
The results will be printed each week. At present Shelby is leading 1 to 0.

Yesterday in a certain class the teacher asked each student if he owned a book, and if he did not,
if he had the use of one. When he came to one J. P. Gladney, the following was uttered for
his benefit: “Captain, I don’t possess one but I have one at my disposal.”

They were taking a certain stage door Johnnie Follies girl out to dinner one night. Was seated in a side-street
restaurant, waiting on their order when he said to her: “Honey, are you thirsty?” To which she replied: “Yes.” “Hey,
waiter, bring this lady a glass of water.” The lady: “I said I was thirsty, not dirty.”

I had a little tea-party
This afternoon at three.
‘Twas very small—
Three guests in all
Just I, myself, and me.
Myself ate all the sandwiches
While I drank up the tea.
‘Twas also I who ate the pie
And passed the cake to me.

The idea of slow motion pictures was invented by a fellow who happened to see two Scotchmen reaching for the
lunch-check after the meal.
