THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

Town News

Note of Thanks

The members of the student body who remained in Davidson during the holidays wish to take this opportunity to express their gratitude for the kindnesses shown them by the families of the town, who did so much to make the evenings enjoyable. Especially are they indebted to Miss Lingle, Miss Ellen Black, Miss Sarah Grace James, Miss Margaret Adams, Mrs. White, and the Woman’s Auxiliary who on several evenings entertained them; also to the members of the faculty who so cordially invited them to their homes for Christmas dinner.

Miss Sara Lingle entertained a few friends last Monday night at a watch-night party. The house was decorated with mistletoe and holly. The entertainment of the evening was in the form of games and story-telling. Fruits, nuts, and cake were served as refreshments, and after this, the lights were turned out and a beautiful Christmas tree was lighted. In the midst of story-telling which followed, the tolling of bells and fireworks announced the New Year.

Miss Ellen Black was the hostess of a very happy party given at her home on Concord Street. Games of many varieties were in vogue for the evening. Miss Black, after singing some songs, announced that she would sing a Greek song. She invited help from the students studying Greek but they seemed to think differently. The students noticed, however, that they could understand the songs with comparative ease, and began to wish that they took that kind of Greek in their courses! Near the close of the evening, cake and pineapple were served as refreshments.

The Woman's Auxiliary gave a party in the basement of the church on Christmas Eve for the home-coming young people, and the college boys who remained on the hill. Games were played, and ice cream and cake were served as refreshments. It was here that the college boys met the town people, which best enabled them to further enjoy Christmas in their homes.

Mrs. J. M. McConnell entertained a few young friends during the holidays at her home. The entertainment of the evening was rook and forty-two. Those present were Misses Clara and Lois Smith, Elizabeth and Gordon Baskerville, Messrs. Geo. and Chas. Robson, Miss Margaret Adams, and Mr. A. V. Goldiere. Ice cream, fruit-cake, and coffee were served as refreshments.

During the holidays, Eustace Lingle entertained a few friends at the Phi Gamma Delta Hall. They toasted marshmallows and sang songs during the evening.

Mrs. Murry Ellis entertained at a New Year’s party during the holidays. Card games were enjoyed until the midnight hours. Coffee, fruit-cake, and salads were served as refreshments.

Miss Margaret Adams and Miss Martha Thompson entertained last Wednesday night in honor of Miss Mary Murphey, Atkinson, N.C. Authors, Magnetic Jackstones, and Spoof were the games of the afternoon. Candies were served during the evening. Refreshments were congealed fruit salads and accessories.

Mrs. F. K. Fleagle entertained Wednesday night in honor of the young ladies of the town. Cakes and cream were served as refreshments. Those invited were Miss Mary Murphey, Miss Williams, Mrs. Harry Elliott, Misses Nancy Grey, Orrie Steele, Ellen Black, Sara Lingle, Dorothy, and Eloise Martin.

Mr. and Mrs. J. P. Williams entertained in honor of their sister Miss Williams, of Harriman, Tenn., during the holidays. Miss Margaret Adams proved to be the best guesser present and received a prize. Rook was then enjoyed until a late hour. The unusual happened: Mrs. Williams announced that the men were to serve refreshments and presented each with a slip of paper with directions. Congealed fruit salads and hot coffee were served. For the final course, fortunes were told as found in nut shells, and this caused much merriment. A number of the young people of the town were present.

Mrs. Ellis entertained the Young Matrons’ Club last Friday afternoon at her home. Mrs. J. M. Blue and Mrs. Elliott were the guests of the afternoon. Salads were served as refreshments.

Mrs. K. J. Foreman entertained in honor of the children of the town last Saturday night.

The Masons entertained at their lodge hall with a feed for their lady friends during the holidays. Mr. F. L. Jackson presided. Short talks were made by Dr. Richards, Mr. Northrope, and Dr. Justice. Professor Fleagle gave a complete history of Masonry. At the conclusion of the talks, all were invited to join in for a feast which was spread on a long table in the center of the room. Fruits, sandwiches, punch, and ice cream were served.

CALENDAR

Thursday, January 10—
Philanthropic Literary Society 7:00 p.m.
Eumenean Literary Society 7:00 p.m.
Reporters’ Club 10:00 p.m.
T'SE 10:00 p.m.

Friday, January 11—
College Night at BillySunday Tabernacle. 
Saturday, January 12—Picture Show. 
Sunday, January 13—Bible Classes 10:00 a.m. 
C. E. Training Class 1:15 p.m. 
Ministerial Band 2:00 p.m. 
Vesper Y. Service 6:15 p.m. 
Volunteer Band 7:15 p.m. 
Monday, January 14—Davidsonian Staff 7:00 p.m. 
OAK 8:00 p.m. 
Tuesday, January 15—Pandemic Literary Society 7:00 p.m. 
Metrophilian 7:00 p.m. 
Court of Control 9:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, January 16—Past-Hellenic 8:00 p.m. 
Bible Class Leaders 9:30 p.m. 

All members of the lodge were present and a few invited guests were present. Miss Dorothy Finlayson spent part of the holidays with Mrs. Harry Elliott, nee Miss Eleanor Gordon, in Virginia. Mrs. A. Currie entertained at dinner on Christmas day. Dr. and Mrs. Martin and family, Mr. Stirewalt and Mrs. Paisley and Mrs. Ellinwood and Miss May Ellinwood, Miss Nina Holt White entertained at an informal party on December 31st. The following guests enjoyed Miss White’s hospitality at her home on Academy Street: Misses Sophie Richards, Jean Martin, and Letitia Currie and Messrs. Eustace Lingle, Sam Black, Howard Arbuckle, Joe McConnell, Rob Thompson, P. D. Miller, of Richmond, and James Whery Gray, of Hendersonville. After many interesting games, the hostess, assisted by her mother, Mrs. Olin White, served refreshments. Misses Louise and Etheline Mitchell, of Charlotte, were guests of Miss Nina Holt White on December 31st. 

Rev. R. L. Foster spent the holidays in Georgia with his father. Dr. and Mrs. Frazier Hood spent a few days in Richmond, Va. From there they went to Washington, D.C., where Dr. Hood attended the Kappa Alpha convention. Dr. J. W. McConnell and Prof. Archibald Currie went on a hunting trip in the eastern part of the state during the holidays. Professor E. J. Erwin spent Sunday in Winston-Salem attending the funeral of his uncle, Mr. J. M. Rogers. The members of the Quadranglers Club gave a very enjoyable dinner for their wives in the church basement on the night of the 21st of December. A beautifully decorated Christmas tree was loaded with presents for the guests of the evening and after the dinner, a radio program was thoroughly enjoyed by all present. Professor Dendy spent the Christmas holidays with his parents in northern Alabama. Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertained the Thelemite Club last Friday at her home on Main Street. Dr. and Mrs. Hood and Miss Williams were the guests of the club. 

The following young ladies were home for the holidays: Misses Jean Martin, Nina Holt White, and Sophie Richards, from Converse College; Misses Sarah Hamilton and Martha Hamilton from N.C.C.W.; Miss Lena Hobbs from Mitchell; Miss Catherine Porter from Flora Macdonald; and Miss Lilly Helper. Miss Agnes Douglas, of Chester, S.C., Miss Grace James, who is teaching near Brevard, N.C., and Mr. James, of Cheraw, S.C., visited Dr. J. M. Douglas during the holidays. Misses Mary and Lizzy Young spent part of the holidays with their uncle, Mr. Allison, of Concord. Miss Eloise Martin spent part of the holidays in Louisville, Ky., visiting friends. Mrs. Robson enjoyed a visit from her sons, Messrs. George and Charles Robson, her nephew Pete Saunders, and her sister Miss Gordon during the holidays. Dr. Lingle spent a few days with his brother Dr. Walter Lingle in Richmond, Virginia. Mr. and Mrs. Jackson and family spent the holidays with Mr. Jackson’s parents in Gastonia. Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Grey, of Hendersonville, N.C., spent a few days with Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Miss Nancy Grey, from Winthrop, was home during the holidays.

BILLY SUNDAY WILL SPEAK (Continued from page 1)
Great enthusiasm is being manifested in his sermons. He puts every ounce of energy he has into them, combining a tongue of Demosthenes, the reasoning of a Webster, and the endurance of an Olympian athlete. His zeal, however, does not detract from his forcefulness. Mr. Sunday has been offered a million dollars annually as a movie actor and several thousand daily as a chautauqua lecturer. He is a man of recognized powers, who is devoting them to a worthy cause. It is interesting to note that he began his career in an orphans’ home.

WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

“What a difference just a few cents make!”