The Wundt theory, which in the words of EDS FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

THE DAVIDSONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. NOVEMBER 27, 1924

No. 11

Bishop Rondthaler of Salem College Makes Scholarly Address

Intellectual Responsibility is Theme of Revered Moravian Minister

URGES STUDENTS TO ACT

Introduced by Dr. Lingle As a Leader in Educational and Social Matters

The Intellectual Responsibility of College Men was the interesting and inspiring subject used by Bishop Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem, speaking before a large audience of college students and townspeople in the Y. M. C. A. Vesper services Sunday evening. Dr. Rondthaler is the father of President Rondthaler, of Salem College, who spoke at Davidson two years ago. In introducing the speaker of the evening, Dr. Lingle paid a tribute to father and son as being without equals as father and son in the work of educational and religious leadership in the state.

“It is the young man’s business to think. Why then can I not think as I please?” was the question asked in the introductory remarks. The speaker answered this question by stating that God reckons with us on the vigor and tenor of our thoughts, whether they are right or wrong. The instance was cited of the experience through which Germany and the world passed because of student thought in Germany. Bismarck used student enthusiasm aroused by student thought to start the Prussian militaristic idea, which led to the Prussian-Austrian War, to the war with France, and ultimately to the World War. “What the student is thinking today, the world will think 10 years from now, so strong is the influence of student thought on the world!” The idea was stressed that men must think these days on the great subjects of mind and soul. Is there really any mind or any soul? The speaker said, “If pushed to its ultimate consequences would deprive us of God, Bible, of our moral destiny,” was spoken of as one which for a while gained great control, but which is now losing ground.

(Continued on page 8)

Reporters Take in New Men; Capacity Reached

Eleven Faithful Workers on Paper Are Included in the Club Membership

Saturday morning saw the campus invaded by the Legion of Paper Hats. Freshmen gaped and the old men knew eleven men had been furnishing readable material for The Davidsonian (occasionally) and that the Reporters’ Club in issuing the eleven paper hats had donned the wearers with no small honor. At 10 o'clock Saturday night the testing time came and the 11 initiates came through successfully and were duly installed as members of the Reporters’ Club. The names of the initiates: T. Franklin, J. P. Gladney, D. M. Calhoun, C. C. Murchison, V. S. Broyles, W. T. Davis, C. R. Anderson, G. M. Eddington, L. L. Deck, and C. L. Bragaw. Immediately following the impressive initiation, a most elaborate feed was enjoyed by all and mostly by the newcomers. To conclude the program that evening, the reporters were favored by short, snappy and instructive talks by Allen Hurd, Chalmers, McIlwaine, and Fred Smith. The public initiation was concluded Tuesday night just before the Converse Glee Club rendered its attractive program. The public initiation was up to par in the shining line in the form of Fatty Laws in a barrel with his cohorts appropriately and foolishly costumed. Individual shines were outstanding. Following are J. D. Laws, F.

MR. WILSON HOST TO FOOTBALL SQUAD

Mr. E. L. Wilson, proprietor of the Maxwell Chambers Hotel, was the host to the entire Davidson football squad at a supper Monday evening. Thirty fellows were present and enjoyed a social hour together in the hotel dining room. Coaches Younger and Tilson were called on and made appropriate remarks, in which they thanked Mr. Wilson for his hospitality. Captain Davis, Reds McComb, Laird, and Baker made enthusiastic addresses, as did Manager McAllister, Wick Black, and several others. Sam Summers, of the Public Speaking class, made a masterful address towards the close, in which he thanked the management of the hotel on behalf of the team. At the conclusion of the speeches a lusty yell was given for Mr. Wilson and the Maxwell Chambers.

The Greensboro College Glee Club Scores a Hit

Young Ladies from Greensboro Furnish Night of Entertainment

STUDENTS TAKE PART

Musical Numbers and One-Act Play Make up the Concert’s Program

The Glee Club of the Greensboro College for Women entertained approximately 300 people in Shearer Hall last Thursday night, and from the expressions of most of the attendants, the performance was well received and enjoyed. The entertainment consisted of choruses, solos, and other musical numbers, interspersed with a reading and one-act play, which added materially to the effect of the performance. The costumes the girls wore were attractive and becoming. The appearance of the girls in their lovely dresses aided the general acceptance of the performance as a good one. This is one of the most important factors in girls’ glee clubs and good taste had been exercised in the selections of the costumes. The program opened with the entire personnel in three choruses. At the beginning of the performance, the girls seemed to lack any animation in their choruses, but toward the last, they became vivacious and put a little more life into their singing. “At the Movies” was an impersonation of an interested movie fan, given by Grace Yarborough. Miss Yarborough showed rare art. This was one of the most interesting numbers of the program. Miss Gwendolyn Mitchell captivated the audience with her solo, “Let Me Call You (Continued on page 6)

Davidson Student Wins West Point Appointment

Walter T. Davis, by Virtue of Excellent Examination is Thus Honored

Walter T. Davis, member of the class of '27, by virtue of his outstanding excellence on a recent competitive examination, held for members of the South Carolina National Guard, won an appointment to the United States Military Academy at West Point, N. Y., and will go to West Point in the spring to stand final examination for entrance, according to recent newspaper accounts from the South Carolina papers. Davis, who is a member of the coast artillery unit at Lancaster, S. C., made the highest mark in the examination, which was held in Columbia, S. C., under the supervision of Robert E. Craig, adjutant general of South Carolina, and J. H. Hope, state (Continued on page 3)

Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa Receives Eleven New Members

Alumni and Students Will be Initiated Here on December 7th

ONE OF FEW CHAPTERS

To be Observed in Shearer Hall in Public Celebration of Fraternity

One of the most important events of the North Carolina Gamma Chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa honorary fraternity, the annual celebration, will be held Friday, December 5th. The exercises will include the initiation of recently elected members, at 7:00 p.m. This will be followed by a public celebration in Shearer Hall at 8:00 p.m. The public is invited and urged to be present. The speaker has not yet been secured, but efforts are being made to secure the best speaker available. Following the celebration in Shearer Hall, there will be a banquet, at which will be present, besides the members of the local chapter, members of other chapters of the fraternity living in nearby towns. The local chapter, the Gamma, one of the few in the South, was installed in March, 1923. Dr. J. M. McConnell was elected president and Professor W. W. Wood, secretary and treasurer, which office he has held since then. The present officers are: Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, president; Dr. C. R. Harding, vice-president, and Prof. W. W. Wood, secretary and treasurer. Following is a list of the new members to be received: Rev. W. B. Jennings, '80, Germantown, Pa.; Dr. James D. Nesbit, '81, New York City; Dr. J. P. Mathewson, '94, Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05, Richmond, Va.; Rev. Robert King, '06, Decatur, Ga.; Dr. B. R. Lacy, '06, Atlanta, Ga.; J. Murray Douglas, '09, Lexington, Va.; Dr. J. M. Trawick, '93, Davidson, N. C.; M. W. W. Purdy, and A. T. Rowe, all of the class of '25, Davidson College.

Senior Committees To Supervise and Aid Publications

The new section to the constitution of the student body provides for a committee to be composed of three members of the student body.Yarborough showed a gift along the lines of expression and her changes of expression as the picture and two members of the faculty. This committee is to supervise all the publications of the student body in regard to their financial standing. The committee has been appointed in order that no publication of the student body will go into debt if it is in any way possible for it to remain on the top side of the ledger. Lately, the publications have been unable to keep out of debt, and it is believed that if this committee functions properly, the financial worries, to a large extent, will be abolished. 

At a meeting Monday morning, several of the student body elected Chalmers Mellwaine, Al Lake, and A. F. Simpson to this committee. The faculty will meet at an early date to select their two members of this committee. All the members will be known in a few days and will be able to have a meeting before the holidays, enabling it to begin its work at once. The idea was not to select a representative from each publication, but to have men on this committee who will look to the best interests of all publications, and who will do all that is in their power to help the different periodicals to operate at least on an even basis. Heretofore, there has been no committee or supervisor of finances to advise the different publications as to the best method to pursue in the best interests of their separate papers, and it has been impossible for some of them to keep within their limits of resources, as they have had so many expenses. With this advisory board to aid them, it is believed that the financial worries will be greatly reduced.

(Continued on page 3)

DAVIDSON’S 1925 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

The following is the tentative football schedule for the season of 1925 as announced by the graduate manager, Dr. J. M. Douglas:

Sept. 19—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 26—Wofford.
Oct. 3—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Oct. 10—Guilford at Davidson.
Oct. 17—Presbyterian College.
Oct. 25—Furman University.
Oct. 31—N. C. State at Davidson.
Nov. 7—Hampden-Sidney at Davidson.
Nov. 13—University of N. Carolina.
Nov. 25—Trinity at Davidson.

Davidson to Encounter Wake Forest Next Year
Guilford College Substituted for Lenoir in Tentative Schedule
BAPTISTS IN CHARLOTTE
Clemson is Left Out and Hampden-Sidney is Added

That Davidson will again meet Wake Forest on the gridiron is the news that comes from Dr. J. M. Douglas, Faculty Adviser on Athletics, in announcing the football schedule for 1925. The Baptists will clash on October 3rd, after a year of no football between the two schools. This year will be the first in about 15 years that the two teams did not meet.

Other changes are the substitution of Guilford for Lenoir College and the changing of the Furman University game from a special week in Columbia, S.C. to a regular Saturday game. Clemson will not be on the Wildcat menu the coming year on account of conflicting dates. Hampden-Sidney will be taken on this year, the contest to be at Davidson on November 7th. Elon starts the season at Davidson on the 19th of September. The schedule is well arranged, all games being played on Saturday save, of course, the final game, when Trinity and Davidson meet on Richardson field. North Carolina State will invade Davidson for the first time in the history of the two schools. This and the Trinity and Carolina games, along with the Elon and Guilford clashes, make four home games for the Wildcat eleven. The place for the P.C. clash has not yet been decided, but it will be as usual preceding the Thanksgiving game.

Classes in New Chambers During Second Semester
Work on South Wing of New Building Will Permit This by First of February

The work on the New Chambers building is steadily progressing. For the past three weeks, the contractor has been pushing the work of getting the heavy stone, for the copings, into place. Some of these stones weighed as much as seven tons, and there was much speculation and guesswork as to how they were to be put on top of the building. However, that part of the building is now completed. The framework of the roof is now practically in place and within the next three weeks, the copper roof will be on. The terra cotta partitions between the rooms on the first and second floors have been put up and the workmen have begun on the third floor. The water, sewer, and steam mains have been extended to the building. While this was being done, the back part of the campus was cut up by ditches, but now these have been filled in and the campus is being restored to its former condition.

Wildkittens Meet First Defeat of the Year at Hands of Furman
Fresh Junior Purple Hurricane Downs Davidson Fresh by 26 to 0 Score
LOSERS OUTCLASSED
Game Changes in Final Half Checks Victors and Allows Them But One Touchdown

Following a successful season of football in which they had not lost a single game, the Freshman eleven went down to the Sandlapper State last Friday and on Saturday were administered a drubbing by the powerful Furman University Freshman team. The latter contingent is one of the most driving elevens seen anywhere this season, and during the first half gained through the Wildkittens with apparent ease. The Davidson defenders came back in the second half, however, and held the Fresh Purple Hurricane to only one touchdown. Whether the Freshmen were afraid of the Furman eleven in the first half, whether the Davidson boys were a little off color by their early arrival at Greenville, or whether the drive of the Furman team was too great for the Wildkittens cannot be determined. However, it is known that the latter put up a great fight in the last half and in the closing minutes of play came from within the shadow of their own goal posts to within striking distance of the Furman goal. Had the Wildkittens fought at first as they did at last, Furman would, perhaps, have only made two touchdowns.

The game had been advertised as the championship game of the Freshman teams of the Carolinas, and, while Furman has not met many of the teams in North Carolina, they have a right to claim this. Should any Freshman team question their championship, it is believed that in a post-season game Furman could clinch the championship. The ball was in Furman’s hands most of the game. Shortly after the first half opened, the Purple Hurricane started a march from their 53-yard line, and by a succession of drives carried the pigskin across for the first time in the game. On the next kick-off by Furman, it was a touchback and when Davidson kicked, Laney got away for a 35-yard run, the longest of the game.

(Continued on page 8)

Polity Club Initiates Seven Neophytes Friday
Two Seniors and Three Juniors Received into Membership in Local Club

Seven undergraduates were initiated into the International Relations Club on last Friday night. The two Seniors were A. F. Simpson and L. K. Calhoun; the Juniors were J. C. Barrington, A. Y. Bowie, S. W. Brown, R. W. Graves, and L. K. Moore. A tempting and bountiful feed followed the initiation ceremony.

For 10 years, the International Relations Club has been one of the honorary organizations on the Hill. Great impetus was given to the Davidson chapter last year when it became affiliated with the Southern Students’ Association on International Relations. This latter association has chapters in most of the A-grade colleges and universities of the South, and in all of these, it occupies a prominent place in campus life. The local club is planning an active program for the remainder of the current scholastic year; it expects to present at least three lecturers of national note to the student body during the next few months. Officers of the club for this year are M. W. Trawick, president; J. R. Gudger, vice-president; Roland Parker, secretary-treasurer.