THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE - Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN - Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Editor
Alumni Editor
Athletic Editor
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Peanut Parcher - Circulation Manager
R. C. McSWAIN - Subscription Manager
GEORGE H. HUNTER - Bookkeeper
X. M. GARRISON - Service Manager
V. H. LYON - Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
I. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
N. G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
J. M. APPLEBY
E. P. O'CONNOR
I. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
R. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
R. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. L. JONES
J. T. WORTH
W. H. LYON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

COLLEGE students are known the world over as being “irresponsible, irresistible, joyous,” nevertheless the old maxim that being seen is
better than being heard, could well be applied to the student body of Davidson, at certain times, at least. There
are times when it is best that a discreet silence be kept, and the mouth closed. One of these times
is when something else is going on that would be detracted from by unseemly noise. It is annoying to some
visitors to come to a performance of the Dramatic Club or similar organization of the college, and be constantly assailed
by violent expletives and sundry vocal emanations, even if they are of the harmless variety. Some of the aforesaid visitors
attend a concert or performance and instead of receiving a maximum amount of benefit, are frequently the losers by going.
Almost everyone likes noise in its place, but it doesn’t belong in a hall where there is a play going
on.

At the stunt night performance Friday night, a lot of the visitors were excessively annoyed by the many cat-calls, whistles,
knocks and other means of noise-making. Frequently during the most important part some whoop like that of a Comanche Indian
would assail the rafters of old Shearer and the visitor could not get the drift of the performance. Of course,
this was done through carelessness on the parts of the students who evidently did not think as much of the
others’ comfort as their own.

The shows and such here at Davidson are for the most part for the direct benefit of the students. However,
at most of them there are others who perhaps do not appreciate such wild extremes of showing one's delight at
the play. It would be well to remember that as we attend these performances and keep the others in mind
at all times.

DEATH OF MR. A. L. SAPPENFIELD

The heart-felt sympathy of the entire student body, and members of the faculty is extended to N. E. Sappenfield, more
popularly known to his large circle of friends on the campus as “Nick,” in this hour of his bereavement. “Nick’s”
father, Mr. A. L. Sappenfield, died on last Sunday morning, when he suffered the second stroke of apoplexy within two
weeks. Mr. Sappenfield, over sixty years of age, had been ill for two weeks, but on Saturday afternoon seemed to
be responding to treatment as nicely as was to be expected. His death came as a surprise to the members
of his family, and his passing has been widely mourned throughout the state. Mr. Sappenfield was a prominent worker in
the Lutheran Church at Concord, and included among his friends many of North Carolina’s leading citizens. To Nick, who had
just arrived home from Davidson where he had played in the game with Lenoir College on Saturday afternoon, his father’s
death was a hard-dealt blow. Expressions of sympathy were wired to him by individuals and members of various organizations on
the campus, and the Davidsonian uses this means of making known the sorrow that the death of Mr. Sappenfield has
caused the student body, as a whole.

Open Forum Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

LET’S GO, WILDCATS!

There is something in the air, fellows, that makes this year seem like it is going to be a record-breaker!
Ain’t it a grand and glorious feeling to see those fighting Wildcats in action? When has Davidson put a team
like it in the past few years? A harder fighting, steadier driving collection of football players has never been put
on a gridiron. We may be outweighed but we are never outplayed! Is there not something in that to make
you feel prouder when we win? Don’t it make you want to yell louder when they make a gain? Five
wins in a row may not seem like much to be proud of but to the older followers of the
Red and Black it is something to feel extremely hopeful over, to say the least.

But that isn’t all. In nearly every branch of College activity there is evidence of a banner year. Stunt night
Friday night proved to all present that material is in abundance for both Glee Club and Dramatic Club. Our basketball
team should be better than it ever was, and as for baseball—well, that is a little too far ahead yet.
Needless to say however, we expect to make a better show for ourselves than we did last year, although our
team will suffer some loss of men.

Then, too, conditions on the campus have been bettered. Some steps are being taken to contend with the mud. Grass
is growing in spots this year that were barren and ugly last year. Our new athletic field is complete in
every way for the year's sports. Well, by now you will have concluded that we have covered the ground pretty
well, in summing up the things that tend to make this year appear to start off better than others. But
the ground has not been covered. Not by any means! It is true that the above are valuable assets to
a successful year, but the most important has not yet been mentioned, namely—our spirit. Our team has the spirit—have we?
When they are there charging, tackling, bruised and battered, are we doing our part on the sidelines? It is true
we yell when our team makes a gain but are our yells this year up to the standard? Are we
giving our cheer leader all we've got? As long as we do those, Wildcats are going to continue to drive
and fight, but when we stop we are lost. The Student Body showed a wonderful spirit Friday night at the
pep meeting. Even then with the number of students present at the game our yells could have been more concerted.
We have good cheer-leaders—and a fighting team.

AN OCCASION

Once or twice in the course of a college year the routine of usual activities gives place to an event
which is not a mere happening—it can best be described as an occasion. The Oxford-Columbia debate of last Wednesday evening
was one of such rare climaxes in undergraduate life. In the commodious and artistic background of The Town Hall, representatives
of an ancient English university met three students from a great American university and together contrived to offer, for the
benefit of New York, a view of the college man at his best.

As an exhibition of forensic skill, the contest was superlative. To begin with, there was present that creature of wit
and finished eloquence, the English university debater. He was there with his ever charming accent, his utter lack of solemnity,
and his brilliant case. But more, there was on hand a Columbia team which, it is no secret to state,
has, as yet, never been equalled in platform success by other excellent groups which have recently competed internationally. For the
Americans also had suavity and humor; they too had originality and beauty of speech. And—we hope we will not be
dismissed as being biased in saying this!—it would seem that a crowded audience felt the local men had an added
command of the fundamental facts composing the body of their contention.

As always the Average College Man missed this opportunity to interest himself in what must have certainly been a genuine
bit of higher education. The Average College Man—still thinking, no doubt, that college debating is the stilted, boring affair of
his prep school days and, in addition, fearing that it might prove “intellectual”—stayed pleasantly in the more congenial and less
provocative atmosphere of fraternity and dormitory conversational inanities—Columbia Spectator.

Many say that they have observed and discovered no unfavorable reaction towards such things—they do not notice the suggestive effect
to any undue extent. Granted thatAll this may be true of many, many individuals, but does it give them the
logical right to keep their walls ornamented in the same way that the opposite truth denies this? What more do
we need to arouse our spirit of loyalty to them? We have a better chance of defeating Carolina this year
than we have had in years. What victory would make you feel better? Our team is determined to do it.
Whether we are or not will be evidenced by the spirit we exhibit from now until then. We’ve got to
put our shoulder to the wheel and show them that we are right behind them and expecting a win. Let's
make our spirit from now on be “Down with Carolina” and continue that driving spirit that is making itself manifest
this year. W. S. G.

Do we have “TEST YOURSELF! WHAT DO YOU LIKE?” Have you noticed the custom of pasting pictures of bathing beauties
on automobile windshields? The State Commissioner of New York has taken the matter in hand and has ruled that the
prevailing practice is bad. It prevents 100 percent vision of the road, and he contends that ‘100 percent vision’ is
absolutely necessary in driving a car. Perhaps the Commissioner might have gone a little further with the contention that the
picture not only obstructs the view but distracts the mind, and we believe that would prove the better reason in
support of the nuisance. The above was clipped from a recent editorial in the Charlotte Observer. Probably it might apply
to the discussion on the campus with regard to wall decorations in the way of choice pictures of various types
of feminine beauty. It is such an old custom here that it is hardly to be expected that anyone will
read this article once he finds out what the subject is. Yet someone may tire of gazing at his art
gallery and turn his thoughts to a bit of an attempt at philosophizing on this prevalent custom. There is no
need to make out a moral case against the custom, and it will not be done. What pictures are good,
morally speaking, are determined solely by the individual’s reaction. Thus it is up to each one to introspect a little
to see just what may be his attitude towards those pictures, and if he finds a wholly vulgar reaction, then
common self-respect demands that he do away with his gallery. But right here is where the rub comes; many say
they only keep pictures for their color and for that something of life they add to the room. But do
they have the right to keep them for whom such pictures mean a vulgar reaction? That is the question. For
very few will admit any demoralizing effect, and probably a great number of them do not experience any such. However,
this is not far enough to carry the discussion. The big problem is whether men of college age are going
to be content to leave things on such a low basis as approving of a thing and practicing it with
no more adequate reason than that it has no evil effect upon them. (And for some this idea cannot even
be assumed.) The custom of hanging up these pictures should rightly be put for many on the same basis as
betting at football games. To some, a bet means confidence in your team; to others, the higher way of showing
your confidence is to refrain from betting. You make the higher choice. If vaudeville is preferred to drama or the
opera, then for the same men it would appear reasonable that they should choose such pictures as adorn the pages
of some favorite weeklies. If getting by in class gives a bigger thrill than really learning something about what you
are studying, then these pictures with their ultra-suggestive nature largely obscuring what little artistic qualities they may by chance possess—these
pictures would logically be the ones to choose rather than the works of art. One may choose the characteristic front
page of Judge in preference to a work of a famous master—it is really no one else’s business. The point
is that each fellow often does not realize it is his own business. As Frank Crane says: “You can be
tested by this one question: ‘What do you like?’ Test yourself, then. What do you like best? Beer and beef
and sleep, and slippered ease and dancing and the chase? Does it most irritate you to be deprived of these
things? Do you get petulant when you cannot have luxury, fine clothes, prominence, and all such? Well, all the world
is like that. Not necessarily wicked—but just common. The hope is that you are dissatisfied with yourself. But do you
like—like, mark you, not say you like—do you like Mona Lisa or Chopin’s Ballade or Walter Pater’s writing or prayer
or a beautiful woodland, so much that you would miss a meal or forego being introduced to an ambassador for
the sake of enjoying them? Then rejoice! For you tread a narrow way, and few there be that find it.
You may be many things reprehensible, but you are not common.” And so it would seem in the case of
the pictures. D. B. W.

B. SCHNIGGLEFRITZ & CO., INC.

The more that come, the worse they get. Of course, we mean the clothes and not the fellows that try
to sell them. Every day three or four Ikes and Izzies are seen around the vestibule of the different dorms
with a vast display of suits, overcoats, neckties, and hose supporters. It is rumored that the next bird showing up
here with a load of garters will be run off on the next freight train that passes. The styles have
changed very little during the summer. The ground-dragging, shoe-covering, dust-eating, bell-bottomed breeches are still the rage, and with these on,
a pair of John Ward's sod-busters, a Hart, Schaffner and Marx cut-away coat, one pair of President suspenders, a near-Stetson
bull-dog, and one of the airplane propeller bow-ties, together with an Arrow collar and an American-made English broadcloth, the tail
of which is tucked beneath a four-inch bellyband, the young sheik is ready to venture forth in search of game,
wild or otherwise. Ike, Abe, John, Bill, and the others claim that they can dress you up so that the
Prince of Wales will look like a coal-heaver. When said clothier mentions this, he forgets to tell you that, when
you get dressed up, your pocketbook will also make a two-month-old baby’s toy bank look like a gold mine. In
shooting the above to you, we hope we haven’t hurt any man’s trade, but our theory is that most of
the girls we know would rather have their honeybunches come to see them in a pair of overalls with a
five-pound box of Skit’s special chocolate-covered than having them ring the bell dressed up like a men’s outfitter’s store window,
but carrying only a walking cane in their hand.

“WHAT'S IN A NAME?”

That is something we will not attempt to discuss. However, when asked, “What's in the student body,” we glibly answer,
“Names,” and avidly rise to the opportunity of telling in detail what they are. That is a startling discovery, but
when it is found that those named Smith come first, holding the lead over the Browns by the margin of
only one, their totals in the four classes being eleven and ten respectively, the rule of the Smith dynasty would
seem to be tottering. Next come those bearing the name Currie, eight of them, and then the Millers, with seven,
and the Thompsons, with six. Five Greys, five Whites, and five Thompsons are names owned by three other groups. Of
Pattersons, of Davis, of Glenns, of Halls, of McMillans, of Jones, of Andersons, of Johnsons, and of Wilsons, there are
four each. It has been stated that ten of the student body are Brown and that five are White, and
five are Grey. Now we find that there is but one Green and one Black. Notably, there is not one
member of the student body who is Blue, however, the Longs number three, and the Short one. However, do not
think that this covers the complete field of names, for there are two Moores, not forgetting the mention of a
little Love. When an effort is made to list the sets of brothers on the Hill, difficulty is encountered for
certain men of the same name jump quickly at an opportunity of disclaiming kinship with one another, notably the Faucette
cousins, Robert E. and Robert G., and the Jennings cousins, J. Hampton and J. Hansel. The most notable of the
brothers who do not try to hide the fact of their closeness of kin include: the Bakers, the Kisers, the
Laws, the Mathews, the McConnells, the McIlwaines, the Milners, the Andersons, the Pattersons, the Wells, the Wharton trio, the Sullivans,
the O’Neals, the Alfords, the Glenns, the Smiths, the Bowers, the Rowes, the Earnests, the Gwinns, the Davises, the Garrisons,
the McAulays, the Robinsons, the Adams, the Friersons, and the Malloys.

Another interesting bit of information concerns the second generation who append Junior to a name borne by their fathers. Of
these, there are no less than one hundred and ten of the six hundred members of the student body. The
number of the noble prefix “Mac” is not as large as would be expected in this stronghold of Scotch-Irish Presbyterianism.
Thus the popular expedient of calling a man “Mac” if one does not happen to remember his real name stands
less than a ten to one chance of being correct.
