THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

Dr. Richards and Miss Mary Richards have returned home after a pleasant visit to Spartanburg. While in Spartanburg they attended
the May festival, held at Converse College.

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES ALHAMBRA THEATRE The Merriest Place in Charlotte

“You've been making love to those college girls,” said the girl who was left at home. “What makes you think
so?” asked Archie Ray. “You've improved so much,” said she.

The shades of night were falling fast, When for a kiss he asked her. She must have answered, “Yes,”—because The
shades came down still faster.

They say that Fields comes from Swineburg, Georgia, and that the name of his hometown paper is The Weekly Grunt.

He—"You have a beautiful neck. I like it.”

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some
and inhale the vapors. VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank Charlotte, N. C. 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone
fellows 221 West Trade St.

She—"Yes, you seem to.”

There are approximately 60,000,000 women in America. They are divided into four classes—the beautiful, the intelligent, the talented—and the other
59,000,000.

The efficient local police arrested a man the other day and hailed him into court. “What's he charged with?” growled
the judge. “Well, he looks suspicious,” said the officer, “He was trying to sell garters to the Davidson boys.” “Case
dismissed,” quoth his Honor, “He is evidently insane.”

Fresh Bordeaux is inclined to indulge in heterogeneous, concatenacious, bombastic diction. He says that a kiss is the “anatomical juxtaposition
of the orbicularis oris in the state of contraction.” Speaking further of kisses, he submits the following original poem for
our approval:

Though girls kiss each other, I don’t see how they do it, For without a real he-man There sure ain't
nothing to it.

All this sounds very true, but we would just like to inquire where he learned this. Any information along this
line would be greatly appreciated.

Lois—"John tried to kiss me last night.” Hope—"What in the world did you do?” Lois—“Oh, I was up in arms
in a minute.”

As his latest song-hit, Watt McCain submits the following heart-rending little ditty for your most hearty approval: “Tobacco-chewing papa, don't
you try to cuspidor me.”

Dopey Matheson, the Socrates of the campus, has consented to allow us to publish one of his rare gems of
thought. These are not the result of brain storms, as would be probably thought, for it takes real brains to
have a brain storm. Instead of brain storms, our little “Dopey” has vacuum cleanings. The following is the result of
one of these weekly affairs: “The best way to get a bank roll is to roll your own.”

Generally speaking, women are generally speaking.

Caesar was a great man because he had the Gaul.

JOHNSON’S College Barbers—Let Us Prove It BARBER SHOP

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

She—“But I’m sure we've never met before.” John Simpson—"Maybe not, but your lipstick certainly tastes familiar.”

“The flatter the plate, the fewer the soup.”

Girl—“I could love you to death if you weren't so bald.” Kid Lyerly—“Sweetie, that’s where I shine.”

Boushee—“Conductor, why did the train stop before we reached the station?” Conductor—“We ran over a pig.” Boushee—“My goodness! Was it
on the track?” Conductor—"Oh, no, the train merely chased it up an embankment.”

Stewed—“Have you (hic) seen my friend Jones here lately?” Clerk—“Yes, he was here an hour ago.” Stewed—“Was he alone, or
was I with him?”

Ticket Agent—"Your train is 1:50.” Ikey Cox—"Well, make it 1:49, and I'll take it.”

Lawson—"That was a fine drive you made this morning.” Fresh Reeves—"Which one do you mean?" Lawson—"Oh, you know. That time
you hit the ball.”

Keels and Davis tie for Davidson's Ugliest Man! Yes, the Ugly Man contest is over, and “Dapper Dan” Keels and
“Nappy” Davis are the winners. By a whirlwind finish Davis overcame Keels’ lead of 10 votes, and the two finished
neck and neck with 193 votes each. As the votes were counted and the results ascertained, the news soon spread
as P.D.Q., at Mount Mourne, and on the next day pictures of the winners adorned the front pages of the
New York Times, the Police Gazette, and the Whiz Bang. Many letters of congratulations have been received by Keels and
Davis—among them from Snag Bailey and Chink Woods. The two heroes are said to be quite modest over their victory,
and to date neither has accused the other of buying votes. It was at first intended to have “Shick” Summers
award the prizes in Shearer Hall, but fearing that the building will not accommodate the crowd which is expected, the
two hand-embroidered pick-axes will be awarded at 1:30 p.m. in Room 4 of Temporary. Speeches by the contestants, and free
peanuts will be in vogue. Everyone is invited to be there!

Note: Dick McMillan says he thought that he should have won. Many voters have asked the privilege of running Biddle
Fields in and changing their vote to his credit, giving as their reason that the said Biddle Fields has just
had his first haircut of the season, and that they now believe that they have been deceived. The request was
not granted, as the committee in charge was sure that Fresh Fields would make a clean sweep if he was
ever put up and that they had left his name unmentioned, so far, because they had wished to see a
good race in progress—not a runaway.

Speaking of Bluebeards—just wait 'till Faison gets back from Paree! Whoopee!

Vie Brown has been very happy for the last few days. He received a letter from his homefolks last week
that...The old Gray mule had died. Vie says that maybe he will get out of plowing cabbages this summer, saying:

BASEBALL AND TRACK MEN (Continued from page 1)

Probably the most versatile member of the Red and Black nine, was awarded the D and one star. Tom Marrow,
equally dependable pinch hitter and center fielder, received the D and one star. Harry Vance, whose terrific swatting with the
willow has made him a holy terror to the Tar Heel collegiate moundsmen and whose uncanny ability to hit the
old sphere when it seemed impossible has made him famous, won the monogram. Kelley Johnson, whose consistent catching won for
him the rare honor of being the only first-year man on the Varsity, received the D. Archie Keels, the popular
manager, whose extraordinary ability in putting things over has won him much commendation, also received the coveted letter.

Captain Streibich was the first of the cinder stars to receive the D and two stars. Although handicapped by a
sprained ankle, he has proved a most popular pilot for the Red and Black squad. Gracey, probably the most brilliant
track star in the Carolinas at least, received the D and two stars. Spec McConnell, the speedy and dependable miler,
was awarded the monogram and one star. Ange McBryde, manager and all-round athlete, received the D and a star. Red
Anderson, the Wildcat dark horse whose prowess in the V. P. I. meet startled even his running mates, received the
D. Ted Koenig, Wildcat stellar dash-man, was awarded the monogram and one star. Archie Williford, the plucky little two-miler who
does not know how to quit, also won the D.

Dusky Charlotte Sheiks To Shout Joy In Concert

Biddle Boys Quintet and Band Makes Second Trip to Wildcat Land

Biddle Quintet and Orchestra, of Charlotte, is to make its second appearance on Davidson campus Friday night. They come as
before, under the auspices of the Davidsonian. When the organization gave a concert in Shearer Hall last fall it was
thoroughly enjoyed by all who attended. The program this trip promises to be better than the other. Various clubs of
Charlotte have been employing the Biddle Orchestra at dances and entertainments this winter and spring. Their work has included dances
at the Myers Park Country Club and Charlotte High School. The concert begins at 8:00 o'clock. Admission 25 cents. A
good, peppy program is assured.

REV. WADE C. SMITH (Continued from page 1)

Lincoln and others were also mentioned as the cause of their sons’ greatness. “The sweetest in the story world, motherhood.
The life of Henry Ward Beecher, whose mother died when the son was only three years of age, was permeated
throughout by the power left to him by the memory of his mother.” The speaker told of a personal experience
in his life, when he at the age of 21, was tempted to commit a criminal act, but the thought
and picture of his mother called him back and he fled from the scene. Later he told his mother of
the incident, and she told him it was at that very time that she spent one hour in prayer for
him. “Think of your mother in time of prosperity as well as times of distress. Let her share with you
your pleasures, as she is eager to share your sorrows.”

In speaking of the power of the word “Mother,” Doctor Smith told of a thief who stole a watch from
a prominent man, along with other jewelry. The thief, when looking over his loot, came across the watch which had
engraved on it the words “From Mother.” Upon seeing the word “Mother,” the criminal sent the watch to its owner,
with an explanatory note to the effect that although he was a hardened criminal, the thought of “Mother” touched his
heart, and he could not keep a gift from a mother to her son. “A mother’s love is not a
passing sentiment, but is to help better understand the love of Him who gave mothers for men. We can best
honor our mothers by making the best of our lives, in the light of what they have taught us. Will
you let Him come and have a strong place in your heart, to make a great man of strength of
you, or will you be a distorted man without Him? The love in which you hold the memory of your
mother will decide the kind of life you will lead. The opportunity will come for you to show your greatness.
Be prepared for that time. Get ready for the great work that will surely be open to you.”

The speaker spoke in complimentary and hopeful terms of D. B. Wharton and A. H. Hollingsworth, who were filling his
pulpit in Greensboro during the evening. Mr. J. P. Williams introduced the speaker, S. F. Bryant led the singing, Tom
Hamilton played the violin, and Wallace Purdy was pianist.

WRIGLEY'S
Chew it after every meal
It stimulates appetite and aids digestion. It makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy
feeling after hearty eating. Whitens teeth, sweetens breath and it’s the goody in the Purity Package.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOB DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Stationery and PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Toilet Articles
