THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

THE GREATEST GAME OF THE YEAR

TALK UP THE DURHAM SPECIAL

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere
as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an
amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Class Basketball Ends to Begin Varsity Work
Sophomore Team Undefeated in Five Contests—Anderson Leads in Scoring

The Class Basketball at Davidson has come to a close and the Sophomores carried off everything. In passing and deadly
shooting, the Juniors were the only ones who held the Sophs to any close scores and, although they lost the
two games played with the Sophs, they were hot contests, the scores being 32-29 and 27-17. The entire Sophomore team
showed up well, being led by Captain Anderson. Anderson and Faucette were in the limelight in all the games and,
were they not guarded closely, ran up large scores. Keerans and Simpson were good on the defense for the Sophs.
The Juniors had a nice running team and at times looked as though they would give the Sophomores a close
fight, but they lost both of their games with the Sophs and somewhat hurt their standing. Lawson and Huie were
prominent with the Juniors. They had two unplayed games with the Fresh and most likely would have won these and
their standing would have been better although they had no chance of beating the Sophomores out. The Seniors had a
plucky little team led by Harry Price who, although a guard, stood near the top of the chief scorers. Probably
the hottest game, they won over the Fresh by a lone point margin playing two extra periods to decide it.
The final score was 26-25. The best they could do was to hold the Sophs by a close margin. Losing
to the Juniors and again to the Sophs, they had three defeats to their two wins over the Fresh. There
was nothing spectacular in the Fresh team as they did not win a game. In their five games they emerged
winners, no one being able to solve the mystery of their play. They lost to the Seniors to a 26-25
game and this was not at all fast. The outlook for a Freshman Basketball team is rather poor and unless
a bunch who are out for football show up better than those who are out now there will not be
much force to the Fresh team. Tom Anderson led the scoring in field and foul goals, having a total of
70 points to his credit. Faucette, also of the Sophomores, stands next with 49 points. Lawson of the Juniors is
third in markers. The entire schedule was not played because of the beginning of the varsity practice and no one
questioned the supremacy of the Sophs. The games and scorers in order follow:

SOPHS 32 Juniors 29
Fresh 25 Seniors 26
Sophs 28 Seniors 14
Juniors 47 Seniors 17
Fresh 21 Sophs 42
Seniors 34 Fresh 14
SOPHS 46 Juniors 17
SOPHS 46 Seniors 10

There are about three men on the line and several in the backfield that will find their place on the
Davidson varsity next fall—others may turn up as sudden finds but these can be relied upon. Their greatest test, however,
comes tomorrow when they meet the powerful Furman eleven. It will be a fight.

THE BEST YET

Carolina (6) Position Davidson (0)
Epstein -------- LE -------- Davis (C)
Matthews (C) -- LT -------- Baker
Jackson -------- LG -------- Vance
Robinson ------ Center ---- McConnell
C. Fordham ---- RG -------- Boggs
Hogatt -------- RT -------- Bonner
Braswell ------- RE -------- Underwood
Hackney ------- QB -------- Merritt
Bonner -------- LH -------- Underwood
Merritt -------- RH -------- Hackney
Score by quarters:
Carolina 0 0 0 6—6
Davidson 0 0 0 0—0
Field goals, Hackney (2); first downs, Carolina 15, Davidson 5. Substitutions, Carolina, Hackney for Underwood (2), J. Fordham for Bonner,
Dill for J. Fordham, Underwood for Dill; Davidson, Hendrix for McComb, Covington for Wells (2), Wells for Covington, Cox for
Pinkney, Anderson for Baker, McComb for Legette. Officials, Gooch (Va.) referee; Bocock (Georgetown) umpire; McDougal (N. C. State) Linesman. Time
of quarters, 16 minutes. Attendance, 7,000.

The Kick-Off
By Don Wharton

The largest crowd ever assembled for a gridiron contest in western North Carolina certainly got an eyeful Saturday when probably
the two hardest fighting teams of the state fought for forty-eight scoreless minutes before Bunn Hackney, with the wind at
his back, sent a fifteen-yard drop-kick sailing a few feet above the cross-bar. This is the third football game that
this sophomore from Durham High school has won in this his first season on the Carolina varsity. His drop-kick was
the first score of the Carolina 6-0 victory.That will mean a perfect record and even the championship of the two
Carolinas should the Wildkittens win. With a 31-0 victory over the Trinity team, Saturday before last he turned the Flying
Squadron back with another twenty-five-yard kick. His two kicks Saturday following three failures, not to mention Devin’s fizzle, brought to
Carolina the honor of being the first team to defeat the Wildcats on their home ground. When Charlie, faithful trainer
at the gym for nearly twenty years, came toddling off the field Saturday with Leggette in his arms, he was
probably thinking that Davidson would need him in the Thanksgiving game.

A word of appreciation should go to Jim Kurkendall for the scoreboard which was erected under his supervision and which
he ran so well Saturday. Heard in the press box Saturday from a newspaper man: “the two best tackles in
the state—Laird and Baker.” One week from today Durham will for the first time in history receive a Davidson College
football squad. There on Hanes Field will be another introduction—Coach Howard Johns presenting his Blue Devils to Younger’s Wildcats. The
game will indeed be a colorful one, with the hundreds of Trinity students cheering their team. The Davidson team has
no snap game before them. A victory will come only from another week of the hardest kind of physical and
mental work on the part of the Wildcat squad and real support on the part of the Davidson student body.
Trinity also won by twice the margin that Davidson got in Winston-Salem. Trinity beat Richmond University by two touchdowns from
Wofford where the Wildcats got one—and that on a blocked punt.

Davidson Fresh Play For Carolinas’ Championship

Coach Rawson Takes Yearlings to Meet Furman in Greenville Tomorrow

The Wildkittens close their 1924 season Friday when they play the young Hurricane from Furman University at Greenville, S.C. The
Furman Fresh team has developed into a real strong breeze this season and have laid claim to the championship of
the Palmetto State. Their most recent conquest was the Biddies from the University of South Carolina whom they trounced 40
to 0. The only game in which they came out with the short end of the score was with Georgia
which beat them 19 to 0. This was the lowest score to which the Bull Pups have been held this
season. The Furman team won from Citadel 40-0 and also defeated Clemson Fresh. Furman has a big, fast team. The
men are experienced and play a sure, steady game. The backfield led by Pickins and Rawls have the drive that
has proven almost invincible so far this season. Pickins stands out as one of the best Fresh backfield men in
South Carolina. He is a wonder on the offense and one of the surest tackles that has been developed at
Furman. Rawls, a former Batesburg star, is quarterback and has proven to be a fast broken field runner. Burns, who
shone brightly for several years at Sumter High, is holding down right end. He tackles clean, hard, and has the
drive that is hard to stop.

The Davidson Wildkittens go to Greenville after ten days of practice since Armistice Day, when they defeated Oak Ridge Prep
36-3 at Statesville. Rawson’s protégés have yet to be defeated and as the Furman game is the last of this
highly successful season, whether or not their slate is to be kept clean depends entirely upon their ability to continue
Rawson’s good work. Laws, Melton, and Nesbit, who have been suffering from injuries, are likely to be seen in action,
although they are not slated to start. Captain Dick Grey will probably lead the same team that started against Oak
Ridge on the field Friday. Grey is one of the best backs in North Carolina and he has proven to
be a leader of rare ability.

Furman Fresh vs. Davidson Fresh

Furman Fresh:
McEachern LE
Sewell LT
McNeel LG
Raleigh C
Maulden RG
J. Grey RT
Arrowood RE
Wilson Q
R. Grey (C) LH
Harrison RH
Overton FB

Davidson Fresh:
Betts LE
Richie LT
McNeel LG
Laws C
Maulden RG
J. Grey RT
Arrowood RE
Wilson Q
R. Grey (C) LH
Harrison RH
Overton FB

There’s considerable difference between the Methodist team that played its first game last September against the Engineers and the team
that will line up next Thursday.

DAVIDSON FRESH TEAM RECORD
Davidson Fresh 19, Monroe 0
Davidson Fresh 38, Wingate Col. 0
Davidson Fresh 14, Pres. Fresh 6
Davidson Fresh 13, Clemson Fr. 6
Davidson Fresh 16, Trinity Fr. 7
Davidson Fresh 36, Oak Ridge 3
Total, Fresh 136; Opponents 22.

HEST COLDS
Redden the skin by the use of hot applications. Then massage briskly with Vicks, spread Vicks on thickly and cover
with hot flannel cloths.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard
Pub. Co.

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
“U-DRIVE’MS”
Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
