PERE} 4 ; THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE...--.---------Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN---------- Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Peanut Parcher
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor

L. L. SHAW
G. D. ROGERS

Business Staff
A. THOMESON
Circulation Manager
Subscription Manager
Service Manager
Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
F. M. J.
M. APPLEBY
Z. P. O'CONNOR
M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. E. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
V. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
K. REGE
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
K. REGE
J. B. THOMPSON
F. L. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

WELCOME, FRESH!

Catch that speaking habit—“Hello Fellows!”
Just a “hello” goes a long way toward keeping up the old Wildcat spirit.

The stove league at Davidson started its regular fall session with a greater number of entries than ever before.
Over six hundred have already started in on three months of intensive work doping out the winners in grid exhibitions all over the country.
Chief interest, however, is centered on the fighting Wildcats under Coaches Younger and Tilson. The “thin red line” is causing a lot of speculation these days, both at home and in rival camps.

Many changes greeted the returning Wildcats this fall. Work on Chambers was well under way, the new hotel was nearly completed, the post office administration had changed, the streets had been widened, and improvements had been made, both on and off the campus.
Amid these many changes—whether for better or for worse—one thing remained the same—the mud.
Mud met the six hundred but they faced it as bravely as that other six hundred whom Tennyson made famous faced Russian guns at Balaklava. Like the other six hundred they were swallowed up—not by Russians but by Davidson mud.

Walk a step
Slip a step
Walk a step forward
On through the Davidson mud
“Splashed the six hundred
Their’s not to cuss or frown
On through the slush and the mud
Splashed the six hundred.

WALKS

Mud has been and is the most prominent feature of the Davidson landscape after every rain. The walks, if they can be dignified by such a name, are seas of mud. Year in and year out the cry for cement or hard-surfaced walks has been raised but has been passed unnoticed. This year the mud is with us once more and the walks are seemingly as far away as ever.

The argument has been advanced that cement walks would detract from the beauty of the campus. The present system is certainly far from beautiful. For the preservation of the campus, cement walks would be a great aid. At present, after a rain, the boys walk along the edge of the walks, wearing down the grass in many places. This gives a ragged air to the whole campus, which cement walks would remedy. With cement walks there would be no tendency to walk on the grass along the sides.

Davidson boys are often accused of being slouchy and careless in their dress. The mud may be blamed for a large part of this. It ruins the appearance of both shoes and suits and gives employment to the cleaning companies of neighboring towns. If solid walks could be laid to the classrooms, it would alleviate both the ruining of clothes and the tracking of mud over the dormitories.

Walks will aid in keeping a “campus beautiful,” in preserving the buildings, and in bettering the appearance of the student body.

PRESIDENT MARTIN

Dr. W. J. Martin, the man at the helm of Davidson College, lies critically ill in a Charlotte hospital. To him every Davidson man owes more than he knows. He is in a large measure responsible for what Davidson is today and the imprint of his personality is indelibly stamped on her future.

For twelve years Doctor Martin has guided the destinies of the college. Under his administration the enrollment has more than doubled and her endowment has been largely increased. The Chambers and Watts fires dealt big blows to the college during this period but under his control it recovered and the Million Dollar Campaign and Six Hundred Thousand Dollar Campaign for the rebuilding of Chambers attest to his efficiency.

While returning from a trip to Europe with his wife and daughter he suffered a severe attack of bronchial-pneumonia and immediately upon landing in New York was rushed to a sanatorium in Charlotte where he has been for the last fortnight. His life hung in the balance for several days but the tide turned and he is now much better. The student body wishes him a speedy recovery and hopes that he may soon be able to resume his place at the head of the institution for which he has done so much.

BACK THE TEAM

In the last few years at Davidson there has been a growing tendency to let the Freshmen do the cheering for the whole student body. Some of the upperclassmen seem to feel that when they force the Freshmen to yell for the team their work as Wildcat supporters is done and they may sit down apathetically and watch the contest.

In former years the student body sat together and rooted, yelled, and cheered for the fighting Wildcats. Now the tendency is for upperclassmen to order the Freshmen to sit together and then to scatter and settle themselves wherever they can be most comfortable. Before, when a pep meeting was called everyone joined in the cheering. Now, pep meetings are called specially for the Fresh and the upperclassmen feel that they have enough pep without exerting their lungs. In the old days a pep meeting was a time when everyone cut loose with everything they had and had a rollicking good time.

While this is only a tendency, it is well to recognize its existence and combat it in every way. Have we got that old Wildcat spirit? Are we backing our team to the limit? The Freshmen comprise nearly half the student body but will the upperclassmen who have lived together—all of them for one and some for two or three years—let them furnish half the noise at the game? We believe that the upperclassmen canmake just as much noise as the Freshmen and then just a little bit more for old time’s sake. The love of Davidson grows on a man the longer he stays in college and that is what it takes to make the old Wildcat spirit. Let’s all back Monk Younger and the fighting Wildcats. The upperclassmen were all there in person to see that Freshmen came, and everyone desperately hoped. Last year we fans seemed to be satisfied if we could just hold a heavy opponent. Naturally, “Hold ’em” was all we did. The fighting spirit among the rooters—the kind that does not wish to hold but to beat the enemy—is what we students must get into our system at once. Some new yells would not hurt. Something must shake us out of the hopeless resignation which many of the most loyal cats have assumed. We know this is the truth, however bitter it may be. What team can fight when its supporters are apathetic? Nothing can give that high-toned morale essential to a winning college team, except the enthusiastic never-say-die type of pep in its rooter. Let’s not be satisfied with just beating Elon. Let’s smother them. Then we will beat Carolina. Our team and our coach are worthy of our best. But to win they must be absolutely certain that we, their backers, have a world of confidence in them. Let's leave off adverse criticism and any resignation to a fate which we kindly conceive for ourselves. Let’s be like the Wildcats of '17. Let's be the never-say-die, true-blue type.

P. F.

FRESHMEN REGULATIONS

1. Freshmen must know college songs and yells by the tenth day after school opens.
2. Freshmen must wear at all times, within the limits of Davidson, the caps prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
3. Freshmen shall not smoke in any of the college buildings except dormitories.
4. Freshmen shall not walk on the grass of Davidson Campus.
5. Freshmen shall not enter the Post Office after 8:10 a.m., until the last bell for Chapel at 8:35 a.m.
6. Freshmen must pass immediately into chapel at the beginning of the first bell at 8:30, and take their seats.
7. Freshmen must wear at all times, on the upper left-hand pocket of the blouse or shirt of the R.O.T.C. uniform, an insignia prescribed for them by the Court of Control.
8. Freshmen shall remain in Chapel seats until all Upperclassmen have cleared the room.
9. Freshmen shall show respect to Upperclassmen at all times.
10. Each Freshman shall have his own placard, with his name inserted in the proper place hanging in a conspicuous place in his room, throughout the year.

COURT OF CONTROL,
W. C. Ramsey, Judge.

FAITHFUL SERVICE

During the past summer many noted sons of Davidson have finished lives of faithful service. Among these are such noted ministers as Rev. J. Y. Fair, ’72, and Rev. F. J. Brooke, ’77. In the educational field, especially, the loss was keenly felt. Drs. D. H. Hill, '80, W. A. Withers, ’83, and C. Alphonso Smith, ’84, left gaps in southern educational ranks which will be hard to fill. Each of them has left his mark on the lives of students in the South-Atlantic states. For several years Dr. Hill was president of N.C. State College and one of the South’s leading educators. Doctor Withers was one of the best-known department heads at the University of North Carolina. Probably the best known of these educators is Dr. C. Alphonso Smith, who was at the time of his death the head of the English department at Annapolis. He had formerly been professor of English at the University of Virginia. He is best known as O. Henry’s biographer and the editor of his stories. It is such men as these who have upheld Davidson’s reputation throughout the South. To them Davidson owes her greatness and with their friends, the sorrows for her departed sons.

THE RATS ARE COMING

Without undue elation
And utmost consternation,
We note with dread fear and great alarm
That the Rats have come to peeve us
And try their best to grieve us,
While we wait for them with welcome, open arms.

(Crtorvus)

A piper—a piper—we surely need a piper,
To lure away the rodents from our doors.
Like Hamlin of old, we shiver in the cold
While the rats cavort like monkeys on the floors.
Just anything to draw ’em,
A wildcat's claw to claw ’em;
It makes no difference how we get their goat.
For they’ve proved a pest already,
And our nerves are quite unsteady,
For the Rats have got their bosses by the throat.

(The above song has been sponsored by the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and registered under the Pure Food and Drug Acts of June 30, 1906. It has been written especially to be sizzled on your saxophone or motivated on your mouth organ. It also makes a very fine bass drum solo, with piccolo accompaniment.)

OUR LAZY LIST

The Bird who, while he was crossing the ocean, told the steward to throw all his meals overboard as he was going to be seasick anyway. But that’s nothing to compare with the Freshman up here who uses the wart on his neck for a collar-button.

Fresh Snigglefritz of Bear Hollow, N. C., was somewhat disappointed when he reached Davidson. Someone had told him of the wonderful polo fields that were at most of the colleges. When he looked all over Davidson and found no such field he lamented aloud and said, “I have always wanted to see the beautiful fields of waving polo, but this darned school doesn’t seem to have one.”

LITTLE MAXIM SILENCERS

Just because a fellow’s clothes look like they have been slept in is no sign that he has been in class.

Many a June husband has forgotten how to drive a car with one hand.

Dumbbells put color on a fellow’s cheeks two ways: he can swing them several months and get a natural color, and he can have a date with one and get the color there in ten minutes.

Fresh—Do y’ know Minerva?
Soph—Minerva who?
Fresh—’M’nervous wreck.

OUR NEW BOYS

The initial number of the Davidsonian would be quite incomplete without a brief survey of what the college has shoved off on the upper classes, namely, the wild-eyed, gawky and unsophisticated looking bunch of yearlings that are leniently called Freshmen. Not that we have anything against the wearers of the green as a body, but their appalling ignorance and general dumbbellishness are worthy of more than a passing glance. The lure of a four years’ soft snap in this venerable institution has corralled exactly 257 new boys into our fold and as far as it is known, the casualties have been very light indeed. Other than a few more than the usual number having bought a winter's supply of radiator tickets and admissions to the rifle range, they have laid off gold bricks and such hokums. The paddle has not been applied and very few breakfasts have been eaten on the mantlepieces reserved by the hash foundries for the army of the ignorant. Their ranks have not as yet been thinned by the ranks of report cards and the flunkers who are hired by the college to weed out the unpromising thorns from this garden of roses. Before them lay the untracked wilderness of the raging seas of education's desert shores, behind them lay the gray Azores of high schools and mothers’ apron strings. Not being poetically inclined, the “sail on, and on,” of the bard does not fit our false teeth and all we can say is “lay in there and fight ’em big boy.” Our earnest plea is that a beneficent providence may peel a few of the outside layers of verdure from their darling little selves before the big, bad Sophomores take the matter in their own hands and feet, with a lust for blood in their eyes. May the arrival of the spring find a bunch of young gentlemen who have been completely subdued by recitations, profs, Sophomores and such evils.