THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1924

Campus Shieks and Yokels Bum Their Way to Charlotte For the Great Clemson Game

Once more, on the Wildcat diary, we find that a day, to which a double portion of space has been allotted; a day that will be remembered for years to come as an epoch-making and a record-breaking day; a day that probably was looked forward to with a greater degree of interest than any that has gone before; has come and gone. This day, in the minds of all true lovers of adventure who now occupy a cell at the “Davidson Deformity,” was truly a greater one than our recent Hallowe'en, or our coming Valentine, or even our girls’ approaching birthday. To be sure, it meant more to some than it did to others, whether according to their degree of success in bumming a ride, or their ability to shoot a hefty line to the fair demoiselle who so faithfully yelled for our heroes until she became slightly out of tune. This notorious day was last Saturday, or the day of the Clemson game in Charlotte.

The faculty, thanks to their ever-present love, sympathy, and compassion, added to the epoch-making factors of the day by granting a change in schedule that shortened the day’s drudgery by one hour. But confident that they had done their full duty and that nothing more would be expected of them, there was only one member who sacrificed his accustomed pleasure of target practice. The fact that no special train was run necessitated the calling into service several busses and cabs from the Queen City. Several of these “gold diggers” were waiting in front of Rumple at the end of the fourth hour, to receive ambitious young men who didn’t think that “much obliged” was sufficient recompense for a ride to Charlotte.

Captain George's lads of the R. O. T. C. Division, feeling very extravagant because of the bonus which had just been promised them, and feeling the necessity of their immediate presence at the field, were the first ones to jump at this proposition. Those who preferred a more liberal policy began their exit from the campus as early as the end of the second hour. The latest report shows that none of them had to walk the entire distance, but the tale told by the several corns and blisters is not to be entirely overlooked.

All those who were lucky enough to be conveyed in private cars constitute a third class. The outstanding members of this class are Messrs. Robt. D. Robertson and Harry L. Estridge. These two gentlemen of leisure made the entire student body sit up and take notice. Several of the boys have been able to secure private interviews with these distinguished gentlemen with the hope of discovering the secret of their prominence, but, as yet, no satisfactory results have been acquired. A committee, consisting of Harry Price, Jimmy Hendrix, and Fresh Ebney has been appointed for further investigation of the matter, but whatever truths may be discovered, the committee has consented to withhold the names of the young ladies involved.

Another striking episode was the case of R. L. Johnson and his extreme honesty. Sometime during his service as a guard he was approached by a ruddy-faced member of the outside gang who attempted to bribe his way over the fence with a drink of “mountain dew.” It was a hard fight against temptation, but our hero came out victorious, as he always does, and refused to commit a dishonest act while away from his dear old college. Johnson’s refusal to reflect a bad name upon his college, even at the expense of several nights’ sleep and many hours of worry, is nothing short of an act of valor, and it has been whispered that he will be presented with a chocolate-covered billiard ball by Major Al Lake at the next “sham-battle” practice.

None the less interesting is the experience of our friend, Red Laird, who, feeling very peptimistic over the game, wished to continue his fighting at the expense of his less ill-disposed rival. Red forgot that time went by at a greater stride under certain conditions than others, and his “weaker self” felt that to call time on so noble a character would be a cowardly act, hence a third party (not the gentle mother) was introduced upon the scene. On account of the extreme delicacy of the matter, it will be necessary to omit the most important details, but all who are interested may call on Red in person and learn the particulars.

Only one more case of individual activities and then we will learn something of a more general nature. This is the case of George Zimmerman, another guard who deserves mention. George took his “shieking costume” along to don after the game. He carefully placed his soldier’s garb in his suitcase and checked it at the “Y,” hoping to call for it again about midnight. When he awoke from his pleasant slumbers on Sunday morning he realized that his suitcase had not come home. Many of George's close friends were anxious to hear an explanation of this absent-minded act, hence the following excuse, which seems to be very satisfactory, was rendered. He said that his memory had not received as much training as some of the others of his acquaintance, since he didn’t memorize passages from Whiz Bang every month. This question will doubtless be dropped without further comment.

Several of the football men were entertained at parties, both social and otherwise. Those who felt like seeing a good show visited some of the leading movies in Charlotte. All those who felt ill-disposed returned to their nooks at an early hour; these were comparatively few. At present, there are still a few who have not answered to their names, but it is thought that they are only lost for a short time, and that they will soon return, bringing their empty pockets behind them.

DOINGS OF THE DAY

THURSDAY:
6:45—Eumenean Literary Society.
6:45—Philanthropic Literary Society.

All Preparing to Frock Carolina.

SATURDAY:
3:00—Davidson vs. Carolina,
7:00—Movies.

SUNDAY:
10:00—Bible Classes.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:00—"Y” Service.

MONDAY:
9:30 p.m.—Bible Classes Leaders’ Meeting.

TUESDAY:
6:45—Pandemic Literary Society.
6:45—Metrophilian Literary Society.

WEDNESDAY:
9:00—Junior Metrophilian Literary Society.
9:30—Bible Classes.

Supreme Court Judge Will Talk to Y. M.C. A. Sunday

Judge T. B. Fraser of South Carolina Supreme Court Secured as “Y” Speaker

Through the efforts of the program committee of the Y. M. C. A., Judge T. B. Fraser, of the South Carolina Supreme Court, has been secured to speak at the “Y” vesper service next Sunday night. Judge Fraser is the most popular member of the South Carolina Supreme Court, and is known as a very forceful speaker. Judge Fraser has always been interested in young men, especially college men. He teaches a men’s Bible class in Sumter, S. C., and has shown an interest in all kinds of work that concerns young men. He is one of the well-known and respected citizens of the state. In the past the “Y” has secured some good speakers, but with the reputation Judge Fraser has and his love for college men, he will doubtless draw an unusually large crowd.

ERRORS IN DEBATING STORY OF LAST WEEK CORRECTED

It was stated in the Davidsonian of last week that the debate with Emory last year was aTriangular debate between Emory, Wake Forest, and Davidson. The result was a victory over Emory and a defeat by Trinity. There were several other errors made. The debate is to be held in Atlanta on December 5, not December 6. The three speakers have all had previous experience in intercollegiate debating. Hollingsworth, however, was on the team which defeated Washington and Lee, not Trinity, last year. It might be added to what was said in the article mentioned above that Wharton was on the team which debated Trinity in the spring. Williams was on the Freshman team which defeated Carolina in the triangular debate with Carolina and Wake Forest. Needless to say, these men are working hard to uphold Davidson’s excellent debating record.

The BON MARCHE SHOPS for MEN “dress well and succeed.” New Slip-Over Sweaters $3 to $7.50 --- These smart new slip-over sweaters are very popular among men who succeed. Lightweight affairs in solid colors with contrasting trimmings, at $3. Others in fancy plaids and stripes, at $7.50. The Shops for Men --- Trade Street Entrance Madras sizes 13 1-2 to 17, Light Elano Oxford --- That solid white oxford shirt, with collar attached, is the smartest shirt for sport and business wear. The Shops for Men offer them with barrel cuffs in Shirts $2 at this modest price.

Dr. H. W. White Lectures About Demon Possession Father of Former Davidsonian Tells Psychology Class of Demonism in China The members of Doctor Hood's class in Psychology were given the privilege of hearing a talk last Saturday morning by Dr. Hugh W. White, returned missionary from China. While in China, Doctor White made a study of Psychology and has written a book, The Psychology of Demonology. He spoke along this line Saturday morning. Doctor White declared there are 100,000 people in China who are possessed with demons just as there were people possessed with demons in Palestine in the time of Christ. One man he told about was just like the man of Gadara, whom Christ cured. He lived in the tombs, wore no clothing, and was violent. Through prayer and teaching of Christ, this man has been healed and is a good Christian. Some people have claimed that this was merely a form of insanity, but Doctor White showed that such was not the case. The possession of demons is similar to dementia praecox, where the person is perfectly normal at times, then has attacks. It is also similar to other forms of insanity, but physicians and the Chinese people themselves say that it is demon possession. Demonism works along lines of suggestion and has been said to be auto-suggestion, but this theory has been discarded. However, auto-suggestion did furnish a clue. There are two personalities, the normal person, and the demon. The patient at times will be perfectly normal, then will be seized by the demon. One thing has been noticed to prove the true nature of the case and to assist in the cure. The mention of the names of Jesus Christ causes a shudder of fear. One old woman from the country who had never heard of Christ was possessed with a devil which made her speak of herself in the third person and want to get out of “this Jesus place,” as the mission is called. Through the teaching of Jesus Christ and through prayer, she has been healed. The only cases where the missionaries have not been able to effect cures have been where the patient refused to give up his idols. Demonism is found in all heathen countries but is not found where Christianity has gotten a foothold. “It is wonderful,” said Doctor White, in closing, “to believe that Jesus Christ could, by speaking, cure persons possessed with demons, but it is still more wonderful that He put into the minds of people the way to rid themselves, and that they can be healed today.”

Literary Societies Eumanean Society The weekly query was discussed in a very interesting and instructive debate at the Eumanean Literary Society last week. W. H. Branch, substituting for an absentee on the negative side, aided T. G. McCutchen in securing a decision over W. C. Ogden and W. H. Lynch, of the affirmative. A summary of the most important recent current events was given by Roseberry. At this point, the meeting was turned over to the installation of the new officers. P. B. Freeland, succeeding W. E. Ramsay as president, made an appropriate inaugural address, briefly reviewing the past history of the society. Tom Barr, retiring vice-president, was succeeded by A. Y. Bowie; and W. S. Woods, retiring secretary, by W. A. Christian. Before adjournment, two Juniors were elected as assistant marshals. Those chosen were A. Y. Bowie and C. W. Bragaw.

Metrophilian Society The Metrophilian Literary Society met last Tuesday night with J. A. Thompson presiding. Before beginning the program, devotional exercises were conducted by M. C. McLeod. The regular debate was won by J. E. Singletary and R. M. Patterson over W. A. Thomas and L. D. Wharton, of the affirmative. The question debated was: Resolved, That the super-power in the United States should be controlled by the government. As officers are to be elected at the next meeting, notices will be sent out to all members to ensure a full attendance.

Miss Shaw has prepared a list of the books in the College Library which are of most interest to college men. Each week, one or more sections of the list will be published in The Davidsonian as a guide to the men who like to do reading along these lines.

The Junior Eumanean Society At the last meeting of the Junior Eumanean Literary Society, the usual program of a debate and oration was rendered. The query for debate was: Resolved, That super-power (water-power) should be controlled by the government. The affirmative side, consisting of H. F. Peterson, Tom Tolbert, and P. S. Tompkins, won the decision over the negative side, consisting of W. F. Stigler, F. C. Withers, and J. J. Willard. The oration was given by W. S. Sells.

Junior Metrophilian After the devotional exercises, which were conducted by C. McRae, a very spirited debate was given at the regular meeting of the Junior Metrophilian Literary Society on last Wednesday evening. The query of the debate was: Resolved, That the government should own all super-power of the United States. The affirmative was ably upheld by Gallant and Hagood, while the negative side was argued by Trabue and Smith. After about 30 minutes of heated argument, in which both sides brought out many strong points, the judges awarded the decision to the negative by a vote of two to one. Following the debate, some very interesting current events were given by Edgar. Committees were then appointed to take charge of the initiation of new men, which was voted to be held at the next meeting. After reports of the standing committees and the disposal of all current business, the house voted to adjourn.

The following gives the library number, title, author, and date of publication of the books on athletics:
790—Camp, Walter C186 Book of Football 1910
790—Camp, Walter C186ar Athletes All 1919
790—Clark, Ellery H. C593 Track Athletics Up to Date 1920
790—Gill, Harry L. G47 Track and Field Athletics 1922
790—Hamnett, C. E. H224 How To Be An Athlete 1923
790—Heisman, John W. H473 Principles of Football 1921
790—Murphy, Michael C. M978 Athletic Training 1920
790—Roper, William W. R78 Winning Football 1920
796—Vardon, Harry V29 Gist of Golf 1922