THE DAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 1, 1923 No. 28

Shearer Packed Sunday Meet With Navy Team To Hear McCoy Franklin Attraction of Next Year In A Realistic Address Manager Patterson Corresponding With Best Teams With View to 1925 Season

CHARLOTTE EDITOR SPEAKS AT “Y” SUNDAY

Mr. Julian Miller, editor of the Charlotte News, comes Sunday evening to speak at “Y” service. Besides being one of the North State's leading newspaper men, he is active in Christian and civic welfare work. Mr. Miller is a public speaker of no mean ability. But even more arresting than the forcefulness of his delivery are the details and facts which give unusual interest.

In response to a challenge from Davidson for a wrestling match in 1925, the United States Naval Academy has offered the “Wildcat” mat stars February 7th as a date. This virtually means an acceptance of the challenge, and arrangements are practically complete for the staging of the proposed match at Annapolis.

McCoy Franklin, of Crossnore School, was speaker at the Y. M. C. A. service Sunday evening April 27th. Probably the largest crowd that has ever attended a “Y” service in Shearer Hall, was present to hear the lecture of Mr. Franklin. His topic was the proof that God would help any man who would first show himself willing to help himself. To prove this, he told the interesting story of his own life, and his rise from a mountain boy, or “hill-billy” as he was wont to term himself, to a professor in the Crossnore School, the outgrowth of the little one-room log cabin school of his childhood.

Early in his life Mr. Franklin attended this little school only one day out of each year, spending the rest of his time working in the fields of his father. It was during this period of his life that he became acquainted with Dr. and Mrs. Sloop, who were doing mission work in this Grandfather Basin, and it was from them that he received his first ambition for an education. From then on he held the one idea before him of going to school when he reached the age of 21, because his father had often warned him that should he leave home before he came of age, he would surely be brought back, and with dire results for him. On the day of his 21st birthday, he (Continued on page 5)

With the Navy Match settled, and negotiations under way for matches with the University of South Carolina, V. M. I., Washington and Lee, V. P. I., and the University of North Carolina in an effort to secure representative matches for the Davidson team. It is not improbable that the 1925 Wrestling schedule will include encounters with at least three of the aforementioned college teams. No steps have been taken as yet to (Continued on page 5)

Knights O The Road Hit Byways For Easter Joys

While the majority of the students remained on the Hill, during Junior Speaking, to entertain and be entertained by the “Fire,” a number of fellows took themselves to the high roads and by-paths of the country, engaging in the noble and ignoble art of bumming, classically known as “hoboing.” With packs on their backs, and dressed in old clothes, they hied away to distant places. The call of the “Great Unknown,” distant places, called!

To “Goat” Lewis is awarded the diamond-studded ink bottle, for the distance record. Starting out, headed South, he landed in Jacksonville, Fla., within two days, and could have gone farther, if he hadn’t decided that he could be “pushed so far, and no farther.” He drove back with his family—which after all is a degree of “bumming.”

Bruce Fewell and Harry Blue win the cut-glass shoe horn for the greatest distance in the least time. They left Davidson one morning before dinner, and were in the Palmetto State at Charleston, at the same time that night. It is reported that

Davidson Delegates To Convention

As representatives of the Davidsonian, M. S. McIlwaine, editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, and K. S. McAlpine, business manager, leave today to attend the spring convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. The meeting, to be held at Elon College, opens tonight with an informal reception given by the staff of the Maroon and Gold, the Elon College weekly, who are hosts to delegates from 14 North State institutions. The pressmen will hold sessions for three days following. The N. C. C. P. A. has been closely linked with the activities of Davidson's

Frats Represented At National Gathering

Pi Kappa Alpha, Scabbard and Blade, and Sigma Alpha Epsilon Send Delegates

During the period following the Easter holidays a number of delegates from Davidson attended fraternity conferences held in various parts of the country. Representatives from Davidson went to the national convention of Pi Kappa Alpha social fraternity and of Scabbard and Blade honorary military fraternity and to the province convention of Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

E. M. Regen representing the chapter of Pi Kappa Alpha located here at Davidson, attended the national meeting of that organization. It was held in St. Louis, Mo., at the Chase Hotel. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, of the Davidson faculty, who is one of the fraternity’s Grand Officers, also attended.

W. C. Ramsey and J. L. Lake went to Champagne, Ill., for the national meeting of Scabbard and Blade which met with the University of Illinois chapter. This was the first time that any member of the Davidson chapter had attended this convention and the delegates found the North and Mid-West better represented than any other sections although representatives were come from every part of the country.

W. Z. Bradford and E. S. Faison were sent by the local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon to the province convention held at George Washington University. Besides Davidson and the host chapter, the University of Virginia, Washington and Lee University, University of North Carolina, and Wofford College were represented.On one stretch their “Chauffeur” made 75. Just a report! It (Continued on page 3)

Mrs. Carol Hayner Baker, Director of the Carolina Concert Club publication. The first president was an editor of the Davidsonian and this year another editor of that paper, Liston Elkins, has held that position. Elkins will preside over the meeting. The program prepared by W. B. Terrell, editor of the Maroon and Gold, includes talks by several of the leading newspaper men of the state. ApS; Stockton, of the Greensboro Daily News, will be the main speaker. He has been asked to discuss the writing of feature and human-interest stories. Among others, Warren McCullough, of Burlington, will talk on the mechanics of a college paper, and Prof. H. Babcock, of Elon, on the preparation of the college literary magazine. Various student members will also address the delegates. A feature of the convention will be the round-table discussion groups on the various phases of work on the publications. Thus, an opportunity will be given newspaper editors, business managers, magazine editors, and the heads of the various departments to exchange ideas and methods related to their particular line of effort. (Continued on page 5)

Vie With State Artists All Teams of State Meet at Raleigh This Week-End—Carolina is Going Strong

As has already been announced, the State intercollegiate track meet will be held in Raleigh on Friday and Saturday, May 2nd and 3rd. Great interest in this display of skill has grown annually; and the different honors awarded to the best in their respective feats have done much to encourage the development of real track men in this state. The fact that every school in the state will be represented at this meet is also evidence that this branch of sport is fast taking its just place among the other sports. This all-state meet should prove to be the best that has been held so far as several records have been broken in the state this season and such record-breakers will exert every effort to take home the laurels at this time. Davidson will be represented by those men who have shown real ability during the season and who are most likely to win points where the best in the state are contesting. Among those who have gained distinction on the cinder path two (Continued on page 3)

Monroe and King Dixie Jazz Boys Delight Crowds On Concert Tour

The Dixieland Novelty Seven, together with Piggy Martin and the Quartet, gave two very successful concerts last week. The first was at Belmont Thursday night. The ladies of the community gave them a supper at which were many girls, making it more enjoyable. Saturday night a concert was held at Red Springs, at Flora Macdonald. For some time past, several organizations of Red Springs, including the Woman's Club, Ladies’ Auxiliary, and the two upper classes of Flora Macdonald, have attempted to have the Davidson Glee Club there for a concert. Finally, they all joined forces in putting the affair on successfully, making arrangements for the advertising, crowd, and entertainment of the members of the Glee Club. The Senior Class of Flora Macdonald gave a reception in their honor after the concert. 

The program was nearly the same as the regular Glee Club program, the ensemble work being done by a double quartet consisting of Liston Elkins, Ted Jones, and members of the orchestra. The Dixie Novelty Seven doubled up on their work thus filling the place of the symphony orchestra. The quartet scored a hit with three appearances. The audience gave the orchestra a decided (Continued on page 6)

Appear at Shearer Hall Engagement Return Monday Evening

Wildcat Cinder Path Men (Carolina Concert Club To Present Program At Shearer Hall on Monday

Musicians of Note to Appear Here With Popular Organization

MRS. BAKER DIRECTOR

Leader of Local Glee Club Will Present Songs in Concert Club Singers

The Carolina Concert Club, a popular musical organization of Charlotte, will appear in a return engagement at Shearer Hall Monday evening, May 5th. The club is under the direction of Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker who trained the Glee Club last fall and is known throughout the state as a musician of the first rank. This body of singers was first heard at Davidson last October and those who heard them then will doubtless learn with pleasure of the return engagement. It is expected that a full house will greet this organization at its second appearance here.

During the present season, the Carolina Concert Club has given a number of concerts in Carolina towns, including Statesville, Pinehurst, Wadesboro, Monroe, and Kings Mountain, and has taken part in the program of the recent Carolinas Automobile Show in Charlotte. Wherever appearances have been made, the programs have been most enthusiastically received and the club has been recognized as the leading musical organization of the state.

In the concert here Monday evening, the club will be assisted by some of the most popular soloists of Charlotte. Among these will be Miss Grace Kohn, soprano, of the Trinity Church choir, and Miss Nettie Allison, soprano, who was a recent visitor on the campus during (Continued on page 3)

Dr. and Mrs. Lingle Will Conduct Foreign Tours

Countries of Europe to be Visited on Summer Pleasure Trip by Two Parties

On June 17th, the French steamer “Rousillon” will sail from New York for France. This vessel will carry a party of Davidson men who will spend the summer in Europe. Dr. T. L. Lingle, director of the party, has planned an extensive tour of France and French Switzerland with side trips into Spain, Italy, German Switzerland, Belgium, and England.

Auto drives, tramps in the high Alps and the Pyrenees, surf bathing at Biarritz in the Atlantic and at Nice in the Mediterranean, the Grande Corniche Drive, visits to Roman structures in the lower Rhone valley, to university towers of France, Switzerland, and England, to famous battlefields, to many historic regions, and to Europe’s two greatest cities—Paris and London—will be some of the special features of the trip.

“Past experience,” says Doctor Lingle, “convinces me that a young man profits more from such a trip while he is a student in college than at any other time. Davidson students who have completed their second year of French will receive, upon my recommendation, college credit for six semester hours of French toward graduation.”

Doctor Lingle has conducted five similar trips and is in a position to give the young men as fine a trip as any tourist agency, and that at a much smaller cost. He will be very glad to consult with any who are interested in making the trip. It is understood that Mrs. Lingle is to (Continued on page 5)