“THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

Here and There

1868—Dr. T. W. Howard, who took his Ph.D. at Columbia University, is now county superintendent of schools.

1890—Dr. A. A. McGeachy is going to preach the baccalaureate sermon at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond.

1905—Mr. A. W. Shaw was at Davidson for a brief stay last week. He was on his way to Statesville,
where he preached last Sunday at the Front Street Church.

1909—J. B. Thorton is at Davidson working among the students. He represents the New England Enameling Company. He is looking
for students to work this summer.

1912—Mr. G. H. Howard, of Tarborough, is doing fine work in this state helping the county schools consolidate and build
bigger and better equipped high schools. He recently put through a campaign in Lincoln county.

1913—Mr. R. C. Hamer, of Eastover, S. C., and one of the largest planters in that state, writes that his
brother, B. M. Hamer, is recovering from injuries received in an auto accident several weeks ago.

1914—Mr. C. Murphy, valedictorian of his class, is working in the well-known law firm of Cotton and McAdoo, in New
York City. Mr. G. W. McAdoo, who is a candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination, was a member of this
firm until he withdrew and went to California.

1922—Sam Story and his wife were guests of the Delta Theta Chi fraternity for a few days during the past
week. Sam is teaching at the Elise High School, Hemp, N. C.

1888—Rev. J. A. Harris is still in his home mission field in Mitchell County, N. C., where he has been
for the last 20 years.

1912—Rev. J. L. Fairley has accepted a call to St. Andrew’s Presbyterian Church, in Wilmington, N. C.

1917—Lex Klutz, who gave an illustrative address on the great Japanese earthquake some time ago, is now representative of the
Near East Relief Association for South Carolina.

1918—Mr. and Mrs. O. J. Thies announce the birth of a daughter, Coline Austin, on March 11th.

1921—Louis Schenck is to be assistant pastor to Dr. Mauze, at Huntington, W. Va., after May 1st.

1921—D. W. Roberts is to become assistant pastor to Dr. Russell Cecil, at the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, after
he graduates from the Union Seminary.

1922—Oren Poe, who is now making his home in Rock Hill, S. C., is to be married this week.

1912—Announcement has been received of the birth of a son, Lloyd Hollingsworth Smith, Jr., to Mr. and Mrs. L. H.
Smith, on the 27th of March. Mr. Smith now resides at Easley, S. C.

1913—John C. Sullivan has recently become associated with C. D. Benson in the general practice of law at Miami, Fla.
He has heretofore practiced at La Grange, Ga.

1922—John Schenck came up from Charlotte last Sunday and spent a short time on the Hill. He is now working
in a foundry in Charlotte.

1922—R. P. Brown visited in Davidson and brought Mrs. Brown with him. He is now superintendent of schools in The
Hollow, Virginia.

1923—Jim McCutchen was in Davidson for a short while. He is living in Rock Hill and is working for the
Equitable Life Insurance Company.

1923—Bascomb Sorrells has recently been on the Hill. He is with the Aetna people and seems to find plenty of
money in selling insurance. His headquarters are in Raleigh.

1923—Bill Cooper, who is now living in Kingstree, came up for a part of last weekend. He is now in
business with his father.

1923—For the last few days “Chink” Woods has been in Davidson selling life insurance. He is now connected with the
Aetna Life Insurance Company and seems to be doing unusually well. From Davidson, he goes to Gastonia.

DAVIDSON ALUMNI PROMINENT IN THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Through a recent conversation, it has developed that a surprisingly large number of Davidson alumni are directly connected with the
General Assembly. A more careful and complete study would show even more than are listed below to be serving in
the Assembly:

Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., is president of the Assembly's Training School, at Richmond, Va.

J. E. Purcell, class of 1907, is general secretary for men’s work of the Assembly.

Rev. Alexander Sprunt, D.D., class of 1875, was moderator of the last General Assembly.

Rev. E. W. Smith, D.D., is executive secretary of the Assembly's Foreign Mission Committee.

Rev. R. C. Long, class of 1913, is associate secretary of the Assembly's Stewardship Committee.

Rev. W. W. Moore, D.D., a member of the class of 1878, is now president of Union Theological Seminary, one
of the four seminaries of the General Assembly.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., class of 1905, is a professor in the same institution.

Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., who graduated from Davidson in 1877, is a professor at Louisville Seminary.

Rev. E. D. Kerr and Rev. H. R. Murchison, former Davidson men, are professors in Columbia Seminary.

Dr. D. M. Douglass, class of 1895, is president of Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

TURNBULL-MARVIN

Several years ago, Harold Myers Marvin, of Jacksonville, left that town to take a course at Harvard Medical College, having
just completed a four-year course at Davidson (class of ’14). At intervals since that time, his old friends have heard
of his rapid rise in the professional world, of his work with the Near East Relief in Armenia following the
war, and, for the past two years, of his research work and instruction to Yale students, at New Haven.

Now comes more interesting news of Dr. Marvin. His engagement to Elizabeth Turnbull, of Brooklyn, N. Y., has been announced,
the wedding to take place early in June, at Brooklyn. They will reside in New Haven, Conn., following an extended
honeymoon.

THOMAS W. DIXON DIES IN CHARLOTTE

Thomas W. Dixon, a native of Mecklenburg County, and a well-known man in the vicinity of Charlotte, died Wednesday morning
with an acute heart attack. He was an active business man in the Carolinas, organizing the Southern Hardware Company and
many other organizations benefiting the hardware trade.

Mr. Dixon was a man of great influence. He filled his office as an elder in the First Presbyterian Church
of Charlotte with unusual zeal. He entered Davidson College in 1873 and graduated in 1877. He was a fine student
and respected by all. During his scholastic training at Davidson, he was thrown with Woodrow Wilson, who was a student
here at the same time. After his graduation, he entered the hardware business.”and from that time on he has upheld
his high ideals gained at Davidson. His large circle of friends are very grieved over his death, but no higher
tribute can be paid to him than to say, “He was loved by all.”

DEPUTATION FROM QUEENS
(Continued from page 1)

truth, subjective, or the relation it has to ourselves, and objective, the relation it has to others. He closed by
pointing out that truth will conduct us to the throne of God.

Miss Caroline Rogers led the devotional exercises reading passages from Luke 22, and John 13. “A great many of us
call ourselves Christian,” said Miss Rogers, “when we accept Christ. But there is a greater test in the Christian life.
We should try to get to God and to live as Christ lived. Christ was the greatest philosopher, teacher, and
man of action that the world has ever seen. However, all His philosophy was practical and He spent His life
in serving His fellowmen.” She brought the devotional to a close by saying that the best thing that we can
do is to begin to serve our neighbors and to do it now.

Miss Alice Gibbon, president of State Volunteer Union, continued the program, also using the theme of “Service.” For the basis
of her talk she brought out the main facts in the lives of some of the foreign missionaries, particularly Dr.
John Anderson. She told of the splendid work that was done in China by Dr. Anderson in the face of
many difficulties. Many things were accomplished by prayer and his love for his fellowmen. He worked especially with children while
trying to save someone else.

The last speaker was Liston Elkins. His topic was “Cultivated Christianity.” “Most of us,” he said, “are Christians because our
parents were Christians and the principles were grounded into us from our childhood. There is a great power and influence
in the home, but as far as we are concerned personally, we need that power in our hearts. The home
is just a means to an end and that end is to have the true Christian spirit in the heart
of each individual.”

The music was led by Okey Allison. Mr. Williams closed the service with prayer.

CAROLINA DEFEATS
(Continued from page 1)

Spanish people. J. B. Gallant, the last speaker for the affirmative, showed the incompetency of the Spanish government to govern
even themselves.

The Carolina team, composed of R. A. Stewart, Miss Romana Galloway, sister of W. F. Galloway, of Davidson, and A.
L. Groce, upheld the negative. The first speaker, R. A. Stewart, showed that the better class of Catalonians do not
want home rule, and that the home rule propaganda is being distributed by professional agitators. Miss Galloway, the second speaker,
brought out the need of Catalonia for Spanish protection, and the insignificance of the matter of difference in customs and
language. Catalonia’s inability to govern herself, and to provide protection for herself was shown by A. L. Groce.

COVINGTON CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

treasurer and the student councilmen have not yet been held. Woods, Lincoln, and Stewart were the high men on the
first ballot for secretary and treasurer. On the second ballot, Woods and Stewart were so close that it will be
necessary to hold another ballot. In the election for Christian councilmen, Pinckney was elected as one, but another ballot must
be held between Pinckney and Murchison for the other position.

WARDLAW TRANSFERRED

Rev. F. H. Wardlaw, ’95, formerly pastor of the Bethesda Church, in York County, Bethel Presbytery, South Carolina, has been
transferred at his own request to Enoree Presbytery. The First Church, at Greer, where he is to become pastor, is
located in the piedmont section of the state, a quickly growing community.

NON-FRATERNITY WEEK-END
(Continued from page 1)

and their wives were invited guests. The excellent film, Little Old New York, starring Marion Davies, was an added attraction
Saturday evening at the gymnasium. The jazz orchestra was unable to furnish music for the occasion due to the fact
that it had a previous engagement in Lenoir. Most of Sunday was spent in the halls by the guests and
their escorts, the weather not permitting much outdoor activity. All the girls present were popular so that none of them
suffered from a dull time. Monday morning saw the departure of most of the young ladies, who no doubt entertain
hopes of being able to come up for Junior Speaking. The names of the young ladies are as follows: Misses
Noel Walker, Charlotte; Adelaide Kuester, Charlotte; Anne Elizabeth Patterson, of Queens; Lucile McIntosh, Charlotte; Ruth Holly, Charlotte; Howard Cannon, Guilford;
Helen Robertson, Guilford; Zoe Ratchford, Gastonia; Ruth Dixon, Gastonia; Lois Hudson, Statesville; Wilma Garner, Queens; Dell Stowe, Gastonia; Sarah Anderson,
Statesville; Margie Anderson, Statesville; Mary Thompson, Davidson; Elizabeth Wharton, of Queens; Louise Patterson, of Queens; Eula Russell, Gastonia; Mildred Bankhead,
Gastonia; Annie Parks Moore, Charlotte; Jean Wolfe, Charlotte; Helen Matthews, Charlotte; Beryl McIntosh, Charlotte; Phyllis Rogers, Mooresville; Anita Wharton, Charlotte;
Romana Galloway, Savannah, Ga.; Elizabeth Dwyer, Charlotte; Jennie Brandis, Salisbury; Frances McLaurin, Laurinburg; and Rosa Mercer, of Queens.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—"What am I going to do after graduation?”
This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree the Life Insurance business combines
the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently
worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. MCALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchanging in good faith merchandise or merchandise
and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located.
The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490
