THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

The Reel Stuff

The screen attraction at the Gym Saturday night will be Marion Davies in “Little Old New York.” Marion Davies will
have a role entirely different from anything in which she has heretofore appeared and one exactly suited to her appealing
personality when she appears as Patricia O'Day in “Little Old New York.” The roguish, mischievous traits of Princess Mary Tudor,
played by Miss Davies in “When Knighthood Was In Flower,” are found in little Patricia, but there is also a
quality of wistful pathos which shows a new side of Miss Davies’ dramatic ability. The role of Patricia has something
of the character of Maude Adams’ “Peter Pan” or of “Little Lord Fauntleroy” about it. Miss Davies appears most of
the time as a young boy, having donned this disguise in order to inherit a fortune.

One of the most dramatic scenes in the picture and one which gives Miss Davies a wonderful opportunity for expressing
emotion is on shipboard when Patricia’s brother is buried at sea. The star spent several days and nights on the
ocean in an old-fashioned schooner while these scenes were being made. Those who saw her as Princess Mary Tudor will
recall the poignant appeal made by her helpless grief when she thought Charles Brandon was to be executed. The ship
scene in “Little Old New York,” where little Patricia sees the body of her beloved brother lowered over the side
of the ship into the heaving ocean rivals it in emotional depths. Coles Phillips says that Marion Davies is one
of the twelve most beautiful women in America.

Chipman Elected Alumni Secretary of Seniors

Popular Members of ’24 Selected to Hold Class Together After Graduation

D. J. Chipman has been elected alumni secretary of the class of '24, according to an announcement made by R.
R. Jones, president of the class. The election was held at a meeting of the class last week. A plan
is being worked out whereby the members of the class will keep in touch with each other after they leave
Davidson. A thorough organization is being perfected with Chipman as grand chief.

DeArmon and Milhous Finalists In Golf Match

Winners in Second and Third Flights Undecided

The spring golf tournament is now in full swing. Thirty-four followers of the links turned in their scores to Captain
“Doc” DeArmon, of the golf team. These candidates were divided into three flights according to their scores. There were eight
men in the first flight and 13 in each of the other two. By this division each golfer was given
a better chance as he only played men whose game was about equal to his own. The champion of each
flight wins four golf balls.

In the first flight Milhous defeated McAlister, Zeke Johnson defaulted to Archie Reeves, Joe Walker defeated Brenner, and “Doc” DeArmon
beat Earnhardt. In the second round Milhous beat Joe Walker, and “Doc” DeArmon defeated Archie Reeves one up at the
twenty-first hole. These two stars of the Davidson golf team fought out a brilliant match. By winning the last two
holes of the eighteen-hole match Archie Reeves managed to tie the score. The nineteenth and twentieth holes were halved, but
“Doc” won the twenty-first and the match. The finals have not yet been played between DeArmon and Milhous.

In the second and third flights few of the scores are in, so the results are uncertain. “Mike” Patrick, in
the second flight, however, is setting a fine pace, having defeated Charlie McCrary and “Spec” McConnell. The players in the
second flight are: Paul Story, Shaddock, T. S. Lawson, Trotter, Peter Blue, Steele, J. D. Malloy, Hugh Currie, Sid Jones,
Bob Mitchell, McCrary, Patrick, and “Spec” McConnell. The third flight is composed of Singletary, Bob McConnell, W. A. Patterson, K.
L. Menzies, Sears, John Baker, Watt McCain, George Dupuy, Perry Priest, Lovelace, Faison, and “Nappy” Davis.

Polity Club Outlines New Membership Plan

Juniors and Sophs to be Selected for Membership by Trials

The Davidson International Relations Club, known on the campus as the Polity Club, has just completed and inaugurated a new
plan for qualification and admission into the membership of this club. At a regular meeting of the club last Friday
night the president explained to 64 invited members of the Junior and Sophomore classes the new plan which is to
be followed. Briefly, any member of the above classes who is interested in international affairs may compete for membership in
the club by presenting to the secretary of the club, H. M. White, before April 11th, a paper on some
assigned topic of world interest. From these men 10 or more will be chosen for membership. This is a plan
adopted by the club at a recent meeting to make the membership of the future more open and yet selective
only to men who are interested enough in the purposes of the club to avail themselves of the opportunity to
better acquaint themselves with international affairs. Many men have shown interest in the new plan and the new membership of
the club promises to include many of the leaders of the campus. The club wishes it to be understood that
any member of the Junior and Sophomore classes may submit a paper. This paper must be approved by the membership
committee and from this number the men will be chosen.

The local club has just become one of the 23 similar Southern clubs which are organized into the Southern Students’
Association on International Relations. This Southern Association promises to develop and stimulate much interest on the part of students of
Southern colleges and universities in world problems. The club at Davidson is one of the oldest in the South and
this new plan for membership promises fair to make it one of the strongest.

REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS NINE MEN TO MEMBERSHIP

At a called meeting of the Reporters’ Club last Friday night nine Freshmen were elected to membership. They are: W.
H. Branch, W. S. Woods, R. H. McIlwaine, W. T. Covington, P. F. Jones, H. M. Austin, W. H. Lynch,
G. McMillan, L. D. Wharton. They will be initiated into the club next Friday night. The officers of the club
for next year were also elected at that time. They are: D. B. Wharton, president; D. G. Wilson, vice-president; and
A. Y. Bowie, secretary and treasurer. Through an error the name of D. B. Wharton was omitted from the list
in last week’s Davidsonian of those members of the Reporters’ Club to whom Golden Quills were awarded.

DR. VANDER MEULEN (Continued from page 1)

decision, especially if that decision has for its aim success, because success is measured not in terms of this world,
but from the standpoint of God.” When a man is trying to learn himself, and to give an account of
himself, he must determine two things. The first is his relation to men; the second his relation to God. And
then to determine his life, it must be contained in three factors. The three are a ruling symbol, Christ; a
ruling influence, the Bible; a ruling passion, to serve God. Men often complain that God does not manifest Himself more
clearly to them. However, God does not manifest Himself more openly to man, because he wants man not to imitate
His personality, but to develop one of his own. An interesting mention in Dr. VanderMeulen’s talk was that of a
questionnaire sent out by his college to its alumni. Answers to it showed that the man who most influenced their
lives was their father, and the book most influencing it was the Bible. This was because the Bible not only
needs brains to understand it, but because it makes brains for those who read it. He closed with the conclusion
that “The only fit passion for any man is that to ‘Make straight the way of the Lord’ in any
vocation. A doctor, whose primary duty it is to heal the body, can save the soul as well. And in
any other profession the same possibilities are open, that of making straight ‘the way.’”

Miss Sarah Lingle entertained at a Mah Jong party last Friday evening in honor of her guest, Miss Baker. The
Smith College colors were used both for decorations and with the refreshments.

Mr. Pendleton Tompkins, of Roanoke, Va., is spending part of his spring holidays at the home of Dr. and Mrs.
T. W. Lingle.

The Eumenean Society met with great success. The question under discussion was, Resolved, That the three-term system is preferable at
Davidson College. There were about 10 men on each side; the affirmative, under the leadership of J. E. Singletary, E.
T. Pullen, and A. C. Ray, and the negative, under the leadership of P. C. Henderson, R. L. Price, and
Claude McIntosh. The affirmative, arguing that a three-term system is suitable for use at Davidson, won at the regular meeting
of the Eumenean Society last Thursday night. Sloan and Brenner spoke on the affirmative and Wildman and Rogers upheld the
negative. J. D. Laws presided and N. G. Patterson was made the head of the Radicals, and W. M. Gracey
head of the Conservatives. The organization into parties will tend to centralize the discussions and make the meetings more interesting,
as well as teach the men more about parliamentary law and the conducting of meetings. The president appointed two men
to lead the discussion of the question at each meeting. J. E. Singletary was made the dean. The president and
vice-president were absent. The critics recommended the four speakers for credits, and the meeting adjourned after Barr and Moffett had
been appointed to lead the affirmative and the negative, respectively, at the next meeting.

Practically the whole of last week's meeting of the Pandeinic Society was taken up with the election of officers. The
nominees for president were Oeland, Price, and Gibbs. Price was elected. For vice-president, Buck Shaw was elected over his opponents.
C. M. S. McIlwaine was chosen as first critic; A. H. Hollingsworth, second critic; L. M. McCutchen, secretary; L. B.
Gibbs, treasurer.

The Phi Literary Society held its regular weekly meeting Thursday night at 7:30 o'clock. The society decided to abolish the
rule about talking, so that the members of the two factions could discuss the topic among themselves. The debate for
the evening was, Resolved, That the Monroe Doctrine Should be Abolished. For the affirmative, speeches were made by J. R.
Gudger and W. R. Story. The negative was upheld by J. H. Holshouser, R. J. Smith, and A. B. Williford.
The subject for the next meeting will be, Resolved, That Muscle Shoals Should be Sold to Henry Ford. At the
meeting, J. R. Gudger was elected as salutatorian for Literary Society Night at commencement.

The parliamentary system was inaugurated at the last meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society with great success. The question under
discussion was, Resolved, That the three-term system is preferable at Davidson College. There were about 10 men on each side;
the affirmative, under the leadership of J. E. Singletary, E. T. Pullen, and A. C. Ray, and the negative, under
the leadership of P. C. Henderson, R. L. Price, and Claude McIntosh. The affirmative, arguing that a three-term system is
suitable for use at Davidson, won at the regular meeting of the Eumenean Society last Thursday night. Sloan and Brenner
spoke on the affirmative and Wildman and Rogers upheld the negative. J. D. Laws presided and N. G. Patterson was
made the head of the Radicals, and W. M. Gracey head of the Conservatives. The organization into parties will tend
to centralize the discussions and make the meetings more interesting, as well as teach the men more about parliamentary law
and the conducting of meetings. The president appointed two men to lead the discussion of the question at each meeting.
J. E. Singletary was made the dean. The president and vice-president were absent. The critics recommended the four speakers for
credits, and the meeting adjourned after Barr and Moffett had been appointed to lead the affirmative and the negative, respectively,
at the next meeting.

Lost and Found

Lost—Social Psychology, by Gault; also blue notebook, pocket-size, containing Philosophy notes. Will greatly appreciate the return of these books. K.
S. McAlpin, 198 West.

Borrowed, from D East, one pair of air-cushion tennis shoes. Borrower please return. C. F. Monk, D East.

A Parker Duofold fountain pen and a Physics textbook. Finder please return to C. F. Smith, 2090 West.

Lost—Dark green overcoat in chapel Friday night. Finder will please notify Byrd Crayton, 214 West.

Lost—Beginner’s Greek Book and French Short Story Collection. Please return, if found, to J. F. Pinkney, 210 West.

Piggy Martin Arranges

(Continued from page 1)

Each of these plays is to be given by one of the three other classes in honor of the Juniors.
The assistance of some Charlotte High School girls has been procured. These girls will be a welcome addition. The plays
are to be The Ghost Story, given by the Seniors of the Club; The Real Mr. “7,” given by the
Sophomores; and The Traitors, given by members of the Freshman class.

Friday afternoon a baseball game between Charlotte High School and the Wildkittens will be staged. Friday night will be the
“double-header”—Junior speeches and Glee Club performance.

Saturday morning will be taken up with the Interclass track meet. In the afternoon a promenade and outdoor festival will
be held. The Junior Week committees are planning to have a Pathe News representative up to take pictures of the
promenade and festival.

Saturday night will be the crowning event of the week. The entertainment to be put on by the Juniors promises
to excel all those of the past. The riotous days of Rome in its glory will be rivaled by this
night—a night that will never be forgotten.

Some exceptionally good speaker will be procured for “Y” service Sunday, and this, with a movie Monday night, will finish
Junior Speaking. Co-operation of all the students, in inviting girls up, and in helping to do their part in the
fun and frolic, will make a Junior Speaking “le plus bon.” Ask that girl now.

Spanish Debate

(Continued on page 7)

An important question depends on the future peace of Spain. The judges are Miss Laughlin and Mr. Valera, of Central
High School, in Charlotte, and Miss West, of Queens College.

A very interesting and pleasant meeting of the Book Lover's Club was held with Mrs. J. M. Douglas, last Thursday
afternoon. Interesting papers on “Colonial Architecture” were read by Misses Julia Johnston and Lizzie Young. The program for the coming
year was discussed and decided upon.

Edmund Halley 1656-1742

Son of a London soap-boiler who became Astronomer-Royal. At the age of 20, he headed an expedition to chart the
stars of the Southern hemisphere. He financed and handled the printing of Newton’s immortal Principia. The great comet that was
seen by William of Normandy returned to our skies in 1910 on its eleventh visit since the Conquest. Astronomers knew
when it would appear, and the exact spot in the sky where it would first be visible. Edmund Halley’s mathematical
calculation of the great orbit of this 76-year visitor—his scientific proof that comets are part of our solar system—was a
brilliant application of the then unpublished Principia of his friend Sir Isaac Newton. The laws of motion that Newton and
Halley proved to govern the movements of a comet are used by scientists in the Research Laboratories of the General
Electric Company to determine the orbit of electrons in vacuum tubes.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
