THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

Mrs. Malcolm Rumple and young daughter are visiting Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin. The friends of Mrs. A. Currie will be glad to hear that she is much improved after an illness of ten days.

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

The Blue Front Store
Feeds Fancy Groceries
H. M. JOHNSTON
PHONE 20

Chew it after every meal
It stimulates appetite and aids digestion. It makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy feeling after hearty eating.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Guns
Skit—“Well, what'll it be today?”
Fresh Ritchie—“Oh, shake the old cow up again.”
Kugler—"Do you like forest preserves?”
Goat—“No, but I like subway jams.”

'27—“I’m through with Mary for good.”
'26—“S‘matter? She two-time you?”
'27—“No, she died yesterday.”

Mitchell is always glad when a circus comes to town. Then he doesn't have to walk a mile for a camel.

“How dare you? I told you you might kiss my hand and you've kissed my lips too!”

Malloy—"I live from hand to mouth.”

Shorty Love—"What was the last card I dealt you, Sloppy?”
Fresh Lingle—"A spade, why?”
Shorty—"I thought so, I saw you spit on your hands before you picked it up.”

Judge—“If I was in your place I'd shoot myself.”
Stewed—“If you was—hic—in my place—hic—you couldn't hit a—hic—barn door.”

As they say it in Virginia—“Let me live in a house by the side of the road, and furnish a mule team for autoists.”

What the average college man needs is less English on his cue ball and more English in his speech.

“Can that stuff,” said the fisherman as he threw his salmon catch on the shore.

John Baker says his girl has her hair marcelled every Saturday so she will look good over the week-end.

“Shay, ossifer, where's the corner?”
“Why, you're standing on it.”
“Zat so? No wonder I couldn't find it.”

Said the violin to the harp: “You're nothing but a big lyre.”

Little John reports that he bought some liquor that was so strong that it turned a bed of violets into tiger lilies when he poured it on them.

Moore’s Bicycle Shop is the place to buy your Shells, Basket Ball Goods, Athletic Equipment, Complete Line Columbia Bicycles, D & M Sweaters (best made).

Rastus was proudly sporting a new shirt when a friend asked: “How many yards does it take for a shirt like that?”
Rastus replied: “I got three shirts like this out of one yard last night.”

Can you originate a clever second line for this joke?

Puttees
Customer—“Have you any bananas?”
Italian Fruiter—“Yes, we have no bananas.”

Prof.—"Mr. Kimbrough, what is a vacuum?”
Kimbrough—“A place with no air in it where the Pope lives.”

She—"What cute caps the Davidson Freshmen wear. How do they keep them on?”
He—"Vacuum pressure.”

The train was approaching the little country hamlet of Rebecca, Ala., and, as it slowed up for the stop, the conductor bellowed forth: “Rebecca! Rebecca!”
An old negro woman got up and said, “Heah I is, yeboss, I'se right here.”

Tom—"Harry ate something that poisoned him.”
Jim—"Croquette?”
Tom—“Not yet, but he's pretty sick.”

Smith—"My wife wants to know how long beans should be cooked.”
Smythe—"Same as short ones.”

Scene—Backyard football game.
Halfback—"Time out! I lost another tooth.”
Captain—"Next time swallow ‘em ‘n don't be holdin’ up de game.”

Famous Cars
Cadillac

A man and a beautiful woman were shipwrecked together on a barren desert island. They were seeking food, and after a long search, to their great joy, they found that several cases of canned goods had washed ashore from the ill-fated vessel. But they both starved to death, because they forgot to bring along a can-opener.
MORAL: Always travel by train.

Infamous BobsOKe nee peeey ae your owl, aes a cat. ane oee eseatt yy Soe pee ees white. turned turning her “You have deceived me and made a fool of me.” With that, she threw the old one away and started looking for a more lively tennis ball. “What a rotten bounder you out to be,” said the fair one, head in scorn.

This is a cut of Stude Trawick at the banquet his Soph year. Just after he finished getting the above picture snapped, he leaned back in his chair and after grabbing the old stogie with both hands, he began to puff away.

Latin Prof—“What is the dative of donum, Mr. Woodham?”
Kelly Woodham—“Don't know, doctor.”
Prof.—“Dono is correct, Mr. Woodham.”

Fresh Laws—“I sure like my girl. Every time I go to see her she gives me the Y.M.C.A. when I leave.”
Greazer Austin—“Whazzat?”
Fresh Laws—“That’s short for ‘you may call again.’”

Ben Franklin has the best raincoat on the hill. He was hitting it out to the bath shack Monday evening when it was raining hard.

Red Holshouser—“Bozo, I mean that jane over there with the red rags on takes my optical organs.”
Old Man Brown—“You're mistaken.”

Buck Shaw says that he is eating a lot of biscuits these days as he has to make a flowery speech next week to his lady love.

This nineteen-pound horseshoe has been cast and will be presented by the Freshman class to Charlie, the rub-down boy, who has a mania for taking horseshoes to all football games. He already has a rabbit’s foot. The shoe is made of the finest grade pig-iron.

JUNIOR-SENIOR DEBATES (Continued from page 1)
Power to limit, regulate, and prohibit labor of persons under 18 years of age. Section II, Power of the several states shall be unlimited by this article, except that the operation of the state laws shall be limited to the extent necessary to give effect to legislation enacted by Congress.

The Philanthropies and the Pandeinies met the Metrophilians in the preliminaries last evening at the Phi and Eu halls. The affirmative side of the question was upheld by the Philanthropies and Metrophilians. The two finalists meet next Wednesday evening, December 17th.

The majority of the men taking part in these debates are experienced in inter-society debating and several are members of the Forensic Council and the Alpha Phi Ipsilon literary fraternity.

NINETY FRESH BID (Continued from page 1)
Phi Gamma Delta—A. Maney, C. Z. Stowe, Camper O'Neal, E. E. Brown, W. I. A. Stigler, J. S. Foster, O. Chatham, John Gwin, Walter Gwin, W. B. Milner.
Pi Kappa Phi—Joe Bowers, A. L. Bowers, J. R. Kugler, C. R. Carr, J. W. Upton, Hamilton Boulware, T. I. Hamilton, W. S. Glenn.
Delta Theta Chi—Hugh Arrowood, J. P. McKnight, A. M. Smith, Jr., C. R. Rowe, B. A. Wilson.
Theta Upsilon Omega—Warren Smith, James Laird, Walter Anderson, R. Mauldin, J. R. Babb, R. S. Lowrance.
Pyramid—V. W. Solter, J. L. McGee, B. A. McAulay, D. H. Howard.
Druid—R. W. Carr, C. K. Poole, I. M. Vick.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Just ask anyone who saw him.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s, and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
See BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298 SERVICE

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.