THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

“UP AND AT ’EM, GUARDS”
RIDE THE PURPLE HURRICANE

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building
The Old Stand

CIGARS SANDWICHES
CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

In the better fabrics — $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes — famous for their
cut — accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics at
this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Breaking through the strong Wofford line, Harry repeatedly threw the backs for telling losses.

Mountain Bears Invade Lair of the Wildcats
Coach Dick Gurley to Bring Heavy Squad Here Saturday — Swamped Guilford

From all outward appearances the Lenoir football squad this year is just about 100 percent better than it was at
this time last season, and several times that percentage better than in 1922, when King College piled up that enormous
206-0 score against them. From these same outward appearances, the Wildcats will have no little game on their hands Saturday.
With a line, the lightest man of which weighs 175 pounds, and a team, as a whole, outweighing the Wildcats
about 15 pounds, the contest bids fair to be a great struggle.

In the backfield Phillips, who possesses 198 pounds of muscle and grit, will play at the fullback position. As a
general, the Mountain Bears will use Gresham. He isn't as large as his mates, but is faster, and is capable
of a great deal of headwork when in a pinch. At the half positions, Captain Brown and Spurlock, the star
of the Roanoke game, will probably start. It is understood that Gillon, formerly on the Carolina team, will also play,
probably at right halfback. Other backfield men are: Starnes, Conrad, Harding, and Fennell, any of whom could have made last
year’s team, in the opinion of many fans. It is evident that the outfit this year has been developed into
a much stronger team than its predecessor.

In the line, the 195-pound speeder, Parson, will probably hold down right end. Hoover, Morentz, and Miller are fighting hard
for the other flank. Hood, 185 pounds, and Amick, 192 pounds, are the present tackles, but they will have to
outfight Lopp and Beam to retain their positions. The former is a three-year man on the Lexington High School team
and weighs 215 pounds. At guard, Coach Gurley will probably start Caldwell, 198 pounds, and Royster, 190. Others may be
Avery, 192; Huffman, 180; or Homesly, 198 pounds. The center will most likely be the lightest man, Echler, who carries
175 pounds, or the 190-pound Royster.

The Mountain Bears have the Wildcats completely outclassed in weight, and they have shown up well so far this year.
They piled up 25 markers on the Guilford team, which was beaten by the Trinity eleven by only one point
more. On the other hand, however, Lenoir beat Mars Hill 13 to 0, while the Furman Freshies registered a neat
margin of 98 to the latter’s 0, but that was the Bears’ first game. Davidson's goal has not been crossed
this year, and the Wildcat supporters are hoping that it will stay that way, but the team will have to
show up better than it did against Wofford last week. The Cats have got to put every ounce of spirit
and fight into that battle, and the student body will have to give their team every mite of support as
they never gave before.

The Kick-Off
By Don Wharton

Away back in the spring of 1924 when the cold March winds were chilling the spring football squad, Tex Tilson
said, “Get this line interference, and we'll win a few more games than last year.”

Last Saturday was the fulfillment of his prophecy. Should Davidson win over Lenoir day after tomorrow, the Red and Black
team will have won the same number of games this year as in 1922 and 1923 combined.

The Lenoir and Furman game within five days is about as ambitious as the Purple Whirlwind’s meeting the near-conquerors of
Yale and Davidson in the same space.

The state papers were somewhat disappointed at the score Saturday. The Greensboro News comes out, however, with the statement that
the “teams still in the title race are Wake Forest, State, and Davidson.” State will have a good opportunity...to get
out this afternoon when the Tar Heels meet them in the annual State Fair game. Wake Forest put Carolina out;
Carolina put Trinity out; (the Lenoir paper wants to get on the line).

It looks as if Coach Howard Jones’ Blue Devils are catching a well-known phrase. With Wake Forest and Davidson still
to be played and the State and Carolina contests already lost, Jones will have to wire for some of his
pre-digested Iowa oats for this lean year.

The same paper heretofore quoted says that Davidson athletic authorities have wisely arranged their schedule this year. They certainly haven't
been asleep.

Bring on your Mountain Bears, Dick! Sutton, former teammate of Coach Tex Tilson and protege of Head Coach Monk Younger,
certainly had the Wofford team calling the Davidson plays. His trip to Asheville a couple of weeks ago was worth
the cost. Sam Summers blocked another punt Saturday and Boggs got his first. It looks like there will be “right
smart” of a scrap if Wildcats and Tigers meet in Rock Hill. Baker has several to his credit, also.

The Winthrop girls, who cheered so enthusiastically for Presbyterian last year, are wild about the “approaching possible” game between Davidson
and Rock Hill, according to their editorials.

In the last three try-for-point attempts, Wick Black has sent the ball sailing through the bars for three extra points.
He is the only man on the Davidson team who has scored over six points—ten for Black.

The standing of the North Carolina football teams and the future opponents of Davidson in South Carolina follows:

College. Won. Lost.
Davidson 2 0
Wake Forest 2 0
State 1 1
Trinity 0 2
Guilford 0 2
Carolina 0 2

Dr. T. W. Lingle, and nephew, Walter, expect to be away over the weekend.

Dr. J. M. Douglas announces that no decision will be reached concerning the place of the Davidson-Clemson game until this
afternoon at 4:00 o'clock. Rock Hill and Charlotte are the two cities under consideration.

BOGGS battered through the South Carolina forwards blocking a punt and scoring the touchdown.

Wingate College Eleven Swamped by Yearlings
Team Shows Fight as Captain Gray Leads to 38-0 Slaughter
Visitors Game

The Davidson Wildkittens made their debut on the Richardson Field Friday afternoon and before a large crowd of enthusiastic fans
downed the team from Wingate Junior College by a 38-0 count. The game opened as if it was to be
a close game, only one first down being made during the first quarter and this resulted from a penalty on
Davidson. But things changed in the second period when Coach Rawson sent in Dick Grey. He launched a whirlwind attack
that swept Wingate off its feet, Davidson making nine first downs and crossing the goal line twice in this quarter.
After consistent gains by Davidson, Sutton went through the line for eight yards and a touchdown for the first score
of the game. Grey kicked the extra point. The second touchdown came immediately. Wingate kicked off, Grey then went around
left end for 70 yards, and after another first down the ball was put over. The kick for extra point
was blocked.

Wingate kicked off to open the second half and Overton returned 25 yards, but Davidson was then held for downs.
After an exchange of punts, Davidson gained regularly and Overton carried the ball over. Melton failed to kick the extra
point. Wingate again kicked off and Overton returned 28 yards and on the next play McGeachy went 56 yards through
center. Two slight gains were made and Overton took the ball over.

(Continued on page 8)

LENOIR COLLEGE STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)

to see this heavy machine. Combined with the Lenoir student body, the campus will probably present the aspect of a
little city. To end the weekend’s entertainment will be the movies at the gymnasium. The name of the picture is
not known. Altogether, Davidson students will have many things to keep them on the campus this week.

MYER’S Hardware Co.
Sporting Goods
Athletic Supplies
Charlotte, North Carolina

Sanitary Cafe
N. Main St.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
A Good Place to Eat
All Home Cooking

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
“U-DRIVE’MS”

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE
see C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
