FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON  
Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 4, 1924  

DAVIDSON ENDS SUCCESSFUL SEASON BY DEFEATING HEAVY TRINITY TEAM 21-13  
Consistent Playing of Whole Wildcat Team is Feature of its Success  
Season Shows Davidson Broke College Record for Games Won in Year  

YOUNGER AND TILSON  
Develop Wonder Machine From Poor Material—Year’s Play Shows Excellent Team-Work  

With the traditional Wildcat fight that since the closing days of the nineteenth century has characterized the Davidson teams, Coach Younger’s eleven came back in the last quarter of the Thanksgiving Day game to defeat Trinity and close one of the most successful seasons in the history of the college. Winning seven games and tying one out of 10 starts, the Davidson team established an enviable record among the colleges of the state, besides marking up more games won than ever before in the history of the college.  

After years and years of football despair, the Red and Black team has come forth to blaze in the glory of a hard-fought and well-played season. Coming to Davidson in the fall of 1923, Monk Younger and Tex Tilson found the gridiron conditions at Davidson even worse than they anticipated. From the very start, the two football stars started building for the 1924 team, but withdrawals of several stars, along with the scarcity of line material at the close of a rather mediocre season, found the fall of 1924 promising little, if any, hopes of football success.  

As throughout the two Carolinas the football fans are talking of the great team that the two hard-working coaches have built at Davidson and as the pickers of the mythical all-state team have almost placed Baker and Vance on their Alls, so the watchers of the fighting machine are beginning to talk of the two coaches who have developed all this out of the most unhopeful material.  

Unanimously christening Richardson Field in a game of mud and water, the Davidson team opened the 1924 football season with a 14-0 victory over the Elon squad. Despite the slippery ground, Nick Sappenfield got off with the longest run of the season, either for or against Davidson, as he caught a Christian punt and raced for 72 yards down the east side of the field. The playing of driving end runs and off-tackle plays of Lucian Wells led to the first touchdown, while Tom Baker and Captain Davis starred on the defensive play of the contest.  

One week later, the Davidson team staged another great rally as led by Jim Hendrix's sweeping end runs and smashing off-tackle plays, Coach Younger’s men came back in the last half to defeat Presbyterian College by the most decisive score in the history of the two schools, the South Carolinians going down by a 15-3 count in a thrilling game at Asheville.  

After playing the first half of the Richmond University game in Winston-Salem in a rather spectacular nip-and-tuck fashion, the Davidson team opened up an offense in the third quarter that swept the Spiders down the field for 54 yards, Sapp crossing the goal line on the winning play. The 7-0 victory was again featured by the great playing of Captain Davis and Baker, while Leggette’s punting and return of punts was of great value to the Red and Black team.  

While the hottest sun of the season broiled down upon Richardson Field, the Wofford Terriers put up a game fight against the Davidson eleven only to lose in the last half when Sook Boggs broke through the line into an opposing punt and fell on it for a 7-0 (Continued on page 6)  

HARRY VANCE  
Harry has proved himself a worthy member of this year’s team, being mentioned for all-state guard by many sports writers.  

Phi Beta Kappa to Receive Eleven in Their Membership  
The public ceremonies of the Phi Beta Kappa initiation will be held on Friday, December 5th, in Shearer Hall, at 8:00 o'clock. The Gamma Chapter considers itself very fortunate to have secured as the speaker of the evening Dr. William Spenser Currell. Dr. Currell is a very popular and distinguished speaker, and those who have heard him before do not need to be urged to be present to hear him again. Davidson men will be more interested in him after noting that he was a classmate of Dr. Harding at Hampden-Sidney.  

Dr. Currell was also an instructor in English at Davidson College from 1886 to 1895, and had among his pupils Dr. Lingle and Dr. Richards, present members of the Davidson faculty. Dr. Currell was president of the University of South Carolina for a time; he left that position in 1922 and since that time has been Dean of the Graduate School at that University. (Continued on page 5)  

Glee Club Appears Here Before the Southern Trip  
Program of Unusual Merit to be Unleashed Before Home Town Boys  

“Music, Melody and Mirth” will reign supreme next Tuesday night in Shearer Hall, when “Piggy” Martin and his musical cohorts, members of the glee club, appear for the first time this season before a local audience. The program will open promptly at 7:30 o'clock, and the rafters of old Shearer Hall will resound with music for two ensuing hours, while the youthful exponents of melody test their abilities before home-town listeners.  

The program next Tuesday evening will be very much the same as that to be staged at the various stops on the annual Southern tour of the club; and, with its super-abundance of variety, it is sure to send the audience away well pleased. The club has practiced conscientiously for the past two months (Continued on page 7)  

Emory and Davidson Will Clash in Spirited Debate in Atlanta Friday Night  
Wharton-Hollingsworth and Williams Make up Team  

AN INTERESTING TOPIC  
Sterling-Reid Bill Will be Subject for Discussion Between Two Colleges  

The Davidson College debating team, composed of C. W. Williams, D. B. Wharton and A. H. Hollingsworth, left this morning for Atlanta, where they will meet a team that represents Emory University there tomorrow night. The subject under discussion is, “Resolved, That the Sterling-Reid educational bill should be enacted into law by the present Congress.” The Davidson representatives in the forensic art will uphold the affirmative side of the question, while Emory will contend for the negative.  

C. W. Williams, of the Sophomore class, was a member of the Freshman team which debated Carolina last year in the local arena. The debate was a triangular argument between Wake Forest, Carolina, and Davidson. The Carolinians attempted to invade the Wildcat lair, but failed in a 3-0 decision.  

Trinity perhaps has not forgotten Benton Wharton, that debating Junior of last year. Another year has added to his experience an invaluable amount of wisdom, and heis primed to the fullest. The Senior class should be proud to contribute this worthy member to Davidson's team. Hayden Hollingsworth, a Junior, made a distinct impression on Washington and Lee last year when he and Stith defeated the representatives of that institution in a 3-2 decision. Since his entrance at Davidson, he has been recognized as an orator of no mean ability, and his clear-headed thinking has annihilated many a “gentleman of the opposition.” The Emory team will be composed of George Morgan, Charles Allen, and J. O. Maxwell. Those who heard the Davidson-Emory debate, staged at Queens College last year, will probably remember the latter. These men will defend the negative side of this question. Every student at Davidson envies Emory students the opportunity of hearing this debate. Although the Davidson team will be in strange territory, they will have the best wishes of the student body.

COACH YOUNGER’S ALL-STATE SELECTION
Wake Forest - Baker—end
Davidson - Pegano—end
Carolina - Moran—tackle
Wake Forest - Robinson—center
Carolina - Vance—guard
Davidson - Mclver—guard
Carolina - Rackley—quarter
Wake Forest - Greason—half
Wake Forest - Lagerstadt—half
Trinity - Merritt—full

TILSON’S PICK
Wake Forest - Baker—end
Davidson - Riley—end
Wake Forest - Moran—tackle
Davidson - Matthews—tackle
Carolina - Vance—guard
Davidson - Robinson—guard
Carolina - Mclver—center
Wake Forest - Rackley—quarter
Trinity - Lagerstadt—half
State - Johnston—half
Carolina - Merritt—full

TOM BAKER
“That fighting, fire-eating Wildcat” — Tom has scrapped and fought to a finish in every game. Placed at end in every selection.

The Converse Glee Club Wins Hearts of College Youths
In a performance of unusual brilliance and charm, the glee club of Converse College entertained a large audience of Davidson students last Thursday evening in Shearer Hall. The program was musical throughout, with a variety of numbers that pleased every person present; each number elicited a continued round of applause from the enthusiastic gathering. The ensemble of young ladies, nearly half a hundred in number, presented a colorful array of beauty that fairly dazzled the eyes of the fortunate youths confronting them. The gowns worn by the fair performers made a kaleidoscopic and changing scene of softly blending colors that heightened the effect to a degree that caused the audience to let forth long-drawn and audible gasps of admiration. Each and every one on the program did her part towards making this one of the (Continued on page 7)

Big Business the Theme of Dr. Foster at “Y”
Points Out Christ as Human Being — Makes Fine Appeal to Listeners
Big Business was the theme of J. S. Foster, pastor of First Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem, in his address before the Y. M. C. A., Sunday evening. Doctor Foster, a graduate of Southwestern University, was introduced by Dr. Frazer Hood, who is also an alumnus of Southwestern. “The large things in life attract me,” said the speaker in opening. “The fascination of the big things is natural.” The question that comes to us then is “What are the big things in life?” The incident of Andrew calling his brother Simon to Christ, as related in the first chapter of John, was cited as an example of a layman engaged in the biggest thing in life, bringing another man to Christ. “He first findeth his brother Simon and saith unto him, we (Continued on page 8)

Fighting Wildcats Come Back in Third Quarter And Score 2 Markers
Jim Hendrix Stars for Davidson in His Last College Game
WHOLE TEAM EXCELS
Marks First Grid Victory Over Trinity in Three Years of Keen Rivalry
By Chong McIlwaine
Durham, Nov. 27.—A fighting Red and Black machine, which found itself in the final quarter, came from behind and swept the Trinity Blue Devils off their feet here today, winning the annual Turkey Day battle 21-13. Coach Younger’s scrapping Wildcats brought the 4,000 spectators who lined Hanes Field to their feet with a forward passing and line plunging attack which netted two touchdowns, and broke the heart of the Trinity eleven. A speedy, driving quarterback, who three times placed the Blue Devils in scoring position almost single-handed, and an elusive red-jerseyed halfback, who slipped past the line of first tacklers, stopped as two blue athletes in his path dived at him, eluded their outstretched arms, and sprinted 35 yards across the goal line in one of the best exhibitions of broken-field running ever made on a Carolina gridiron, played the stellar roles as Wildcats vanquished Blue Devils. Lagerstadt and Hendrix, playing their final games, exhibited wonderful football, but the Trinity star spent himself in the first three periods, while in the last quarter Jim Hendrix added to his evasive broken-field running a drive which carried him through the Trinity line for the tying points, and later aided in the final touchdown. It was a brilliant ending to the most successful season the Wildcats have enjoyed since 1917. Outweighed 19 pounds to the man, the thin Red line, which for three quarters had recoiled before the force of Lagerstadt’s line-smashing drives, braced and drove the Blue Devil forwards back under the shadow of their goal posts, where Hendrix carried the oval across. It was a wonderful exhibition of the Wildcat fighting qualities, with which the name of Davidson's grid elevens have come to be synonymous, which sent the Jonesmen from the field, a beaten team, and gave Davidson her first victory over Trinity in the three years of rivalry. At the opening of the final period the Blue and White eleven was leading 13-7, the result of one touchdown and two perfect placements from Caldwell’s toe. It was Davidson’s ball on her own 20-yard line, and Sappenfield shot a pass to McComb, who raced to the 46-yard line. Three plays made half the distance, and Laird ripped off a 50-yard punt over the goal line. The Blue Devils made first down on their 30-yard line but were forced to punt, and Caldwell kicked out of bounds in midfield. Sappenfield’s pass to McComb netted five yards. On the next play McComb made a wonderful diving catch of Sappenfield’s bad pass for a gain of two yards. Wick Black drove through center for nine yards and first down on the 34-yard line. Coach Younger surprised everyone by substituting Covington for McComb, who had starred on the receiving end of three passes. Two plays failed and then Sappenfield pulled the prettiest piece of headwork during the game, outguessing Trinity completely. Black, who had done the line-plunging for the Wildcats, was called back. The Trinity forwards braced to meet Black, (Continued on page 6)