THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

Duke Deceives Davidson

One of the most heinous crimes of the year has been perpetrated against the Davidson student body by a notorious
Senior. The plot was perfected by a sometime student and member of the student body. Speedy Walthall is alleged to
have committed many misdemeanors in the accomplishment of his purpose to compete for and win the first prize at the
Peace Oratorical contest held at Durham last week. These allegations are supported by prima facie evidence. The evidence as prepared
by the prosecuting attorney is set forth below. The defendant has not been able to get an attorney to defend
him. It is said that Hoo John and Jethro have already declined to take the case, it is thought that
P. C. Henderson is seriously considering defending him.

On the morning of April 17th Speedy Walthall, hereinafter known as the defendant, read in a journal from a neighboring
city of the Peace Oratorical Contest, which was to be held on the 25th in the city of Durham. On
the morning of the 23rd the defendant announced in chapel that the preliminaries for the contest would be held that
night. In the meantime, the defendant had already prepared and memorized his speech. The other contestants in the preliminaries had
only eight hours in which to prepare. The defendant had already sent in his name as the Davidson entrant. The
defendant, after announcing the preliminaries, went out straightway and picked the judges. After he had been picked for the contest,
the defendant borrowed a swallow tail and put it, together with his toothbrush and a box of shoe polish, in
the old carpet bag. The next morning he set out to Durham of bull fame.

When he arrived at the place of the forensic fray, he was informed that he would have to pay a
ten-dollar fee in order to enter the contest. He replied that if they would credit him for two hours, he
would pay it out of the money he would receive for first prize. The defendant won neither first, second, nor
third place. As there were only six speakers, the judges did not bother to classify the other three, but since
one of the other two was a blind man and the other a Hindoo, it is certain that he got
sixth place. The trial will take place sometime in the next few days, the prosecution will be in the name
of the student body of Davidson College. Speedy is supposed to speak to the young ladies of a nearby woman’s
college. The prosecution is taking steps to keep him from going as it is certain that it would result in
the disillusionment of the young ladies as to the type of the flower of Southern young manhood.

Goat Gets Giddy

Among the names of the greatest inventors of the day will be found the name, Goat T. Lewis. This illustrious
student of Davidson has invented a vehicle which is a cross between a 1903 model Ford and a buggy. It
is known as the Horseless Wagon. This vehicle has caused much comment and laughter because it is the only one
of its kind in captivity. The inventor is justly proud of the production of his master mind. His associates in
the construction of this new wonder of the age are Worthless Williams and Abie Kugler, both master MECCANO constructors. The
inventor shows a great amount of ingenuity in his mechanism because the front seat of this carriage is the exact
model of a 1925 Sport seat, while the back seat is of the bygone buggy type. In explanation of this
odd feature, the master reminds his listeners that many suitors for fair maidens’ hands have girls of the modern, or
flapper type, while others have the old-fashioned girl as their opinion of the only one, while many who court two
ladies at the same time have one of each type. The inventor says that each type of girl prefers her
type of carriage for riding, hence the new invention. A man who is not able to own two types of
vehicles at the same time has solved his problem at once when he buys a car of this type. Orders
for the 1925 model are being received by the inventor on a two weeks’ delivery. An exact model of the
new car can be seen at any time in front of the dormitory.

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SESSION 1923-24 Second Semester

MAY

| FRESHMAN | SOPHOMORE | JUNIOR |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Thur. A.M. | No classes | No classes | No classes |
| P.M. | Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Applied Math. 1 and 2, Astronomy—Geology |
| Fri. A.M. | Spanish 1 | Spanish 2 | Spanish 3 and 4 |
| P.M. | French 1 | French 2 | French 3, Psychology, Philosophy 1 or 2 |
| Sat. A.M. | Latin 1 | Latin 2 | Law—Education 2 |
| P.M. | Math. 1 | Math. 2 | Math. 3 and 4, Pol. Science |
| Tues. A.M. | Biology 1 | Biology 2 | Biology 3 and 4 |
| P.M. | Phys. and Hyg. | Psychology 1 and 2 |
| Wed. A.M. | Economics 1, 2 and 3 |
| P.M. | Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 |
| Thur. A.M. | History 1 | History 2 | History 4 and 5 |
| P.M. | German 1 | German 2 | German 3 |
| Fri. A.M. | Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Greek 3, 5 and 6 |
| P.M. | Pub. Speaking | Political Science 7, Accounting |
| Sat. A.M. | Physics 1 | Physics 2, 3 and 4 |
| P.M. | English 1 | English 2 | English 3 or 4, English 5 or 6 |

Demon Dope Drives

Since the popularity contest has begun, Dope Matheson has been spending his spare time in taking all the physical exercise
that he can in order that he can be elected the “Ugliest Man” on the day that the ballots will
be marked. If you will wander out to the athletic field about six o'clock one of these fine mornings, you
will see Dope trotting gracefully around the cinder path, with a look of determination, mixed with a longing for the
ringing of the breakfast bell spread all over his matchless countenance.

The Dope is wishing for the election day to hurry on, as his roommate, who has to accompany him to
the track each morning, has threatened to quit. The Dope knows that if he loses his trainer he will lose
the votes. Each afternoon finds the said Dope in the wrestling room of the gym, trying to learn the secret
of building up a manly physique, under the competent coaching of Professor Hippo Houck. The Dope says that he firmly
believes that the Woolworth Wrestling Class is aiding him more than his trips around the cinder path. Although it is
a secret, the cat is being let out of the bag, and it is being told around the campus that
the Dope is building up his physique because he is going to be married as soon as he can find
the unlucky lady. He says that he is going to start out on a shocking expedition about the tenth of
June, and is going to use the Cave-Man Method of Approved Love-Making.

BAPTISTS BEAT KITTENS IN SCRAPPY ROAD GAME

As the Davidsonian went to press, the box score of the Davidson Fresh-Wake Forest Fresh game had not been received,
but a short summary of the game was received Monday morning. The Davidson Wildkittens were outplayed in a hard-fought game
on the Wake Forest diamond on last Saturday afternoon. The score was 6 to 1, in favor of the home
team. The Wildkittens were held to three hits, while the Wake Forest men were able to put across nine hits
during the nine innings. Sparrow, of Davidson, made two of Davidson's three hits. The feature of the game was the
ability of the Wake Forest men to put across hits that meant runs when the opportunities presented themselves. The following
is the score by innings:

R H E
Wake Forest Fresh 6 9 3
Davidson Fresh 1 3 2

Literary Societies

At the Phi meeting, a bill was introduced that North Carolina should pass a workmen's compensation law. This bill was
voted on and passed without any discussion. H. M. White then introduced a bill that the State of North Carolina
should build a...Railroad from Micaville to Charlotte. A discussion followed, by H. M. White, E. D. Brown, J. F. Holshouser,
and A. B. Williford. The bill was then voted on, but failed to pass.

Walthall Speaks At State Peace Oratorical Meet
Chosen as Davidson’s Representative and Goes to Raleigh

The preliminary for the annual Peace oratorical contest for North Carolina, held Wednesday, April 23rd, in Shearer Hall, for the
purpose of selecting a representative from Davidson, was won by D. B. Walthall, with H. L. Shaw as alternate. The
following men spoke: Walthall, Shaw, Wharton, Hollingsworth, McInnis, Jim Carr, Harry Price, Al Simpson, and Ray.

H. T. Wright, representative of Wake Forest, won the first prize at the State meet Friday night. The second prize
went to M. A. James, of Carolina, and G. V. Allen, of Trinity, won third prize. State’s representative was S.
K. Marathe, a native Hindoo of Poona, India. Elon’s representative was S. M. Lyman, and D. B. Walthall spoke for
Davidson.

The subject of the winner's oration was A Vital League, in which Mr. Wright spoke in favor of the League
of Nations. In addition to a prize of $75, Mr. Wright will compete in the national contest to be held
at Antioch College, Ohio, later in the spring. Prof. F. S. Blair, of Guilford College, secretary of the North Carolina
Peace Society, and Prof. Holand Horton, of the department of education at Trinity, had charge of the contest.

At the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society, the election of officers for the fall term was held in
place of the regular meeting. The officers who will be in charge in the fall are as follows: W. C.
Ramsey, president; T. C. Barr, vice-president; W. S. Woods, secretary; N. G. Patterson, reviewer; A. N. Moffett, treasurer, and N.
G. Patterson, forensic councilman. Under the leadership and direction of these men, it is expected that the work will be
carried on from the first of the fall term with much zeal, and that the standards set by the new
and the retiring officers will be maintained. Professor Blair is manager of the annual contests.

THE INFIRMARY NEWS
The men confined to the Infirmary during the week of the Easter holidays were: Chong McIlwaine, Archie Keels, Lewis Glenn,
and J. H. Hall. These men had only minor troubles and are all out now with the exception of Archie
Keels. The case of D. C. Ewing, however, has been more serious. While home for the Easter holidays, he was
taken with an acute attack of appendicitis. Before he could be rushed to a hospital, his appendix burst and gangrene
set in. He was operated on Monday afternoon, April 21st, at Long's Hospital, in Greensboro. Since that time, he has
been in a serious condition, but it is thought now that he will pull through all right. It is doubtful
whether he will be able to return to school this year.

LUXENBERG CLOTHES
Talk No. 3
CONFIDENCE
Certain things we tell every customer BEFORE he makes his first purchase.
1. That the woolens we use are the sort that you will find in suits priced $20 higher elsewhere.
2. That we guarantee "well made" clothes (not custom made).
3. That without complete satisfaction no sale is concluded. We will refund the purchase price if you are not entirely
satisfied.

From the many customers we have made, it would seem that the LUXENBERG label plus money in his pocket is
a sufficient inducement for any man to buy clothes in the LUXENBERG way.
(No. 3 of a series of talks with tips for men who dress well.)

To take care of our growing trade, we have been compelled to open branches at 863 Broad Street, Newark, N.
J. Home store, as always, 841 Broadway, New York City.
LUXENBERG & Bros.

CENTRAL Dyeing and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Largest 8 E. Trade St. Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection Oldest HAT SHOP Pressing Best CHARLOTTE

The meeting for this week will be an election of officers for the first term next year. The regular meeting
of the Metrophilian Society last week was featured by a spirited debate on the bill, Resolved, That the United States
Congress should pass a bill excluding all Japanese from America. D. B. Wharton called for the order of the day
and supported the affirmative side of the question. A. C. Ray led the debate of the negative. These were followed
by several speakers on each side, after which the bill was voted upon by the house and passed by a
unanimous vote.

It was decided by the society to contribute $25 toward the settlement of the intercollegiate debating debt. It was announced
that the election of officers for the spring term would be held at the next meeting.

Pandeinic Literary Society
The Pandeinic Literary Society met on Tuesday evening, April 22nd. After the meeting was called to order by the president,
a passage of scripture was read and Hudgins led the house in prayer. A. H. Hollingsworth presented a bill that
the society should adopt the old plan of meeting for two terms and the new plan the last term. It
was the understanding that if the bill passed the house, a committee would be appointed to work out the details.
Deck and S. W. Moore spoke in favor of the bill. After a full discussion of the bill, it was
passed. The society voted to pay $25 for intercollegiate debating expenses.

“It’s on even when it’s off”
(Does this slogan about the Hinge-Cap deserve a prize? If not, what better one can you suggest? Read our offer)

WILLIAMS is a wonderfully popular shaving cream. Here’s why:— It’s heavier, faster-working lather, the way it lubricates the path of
the razor and eliminates painful friction, the soothing ingredient which keeps the skin so smooth and cool even in daily
shaving—these are qualities men like! They also like its purity—no artificial coloring. With the new Hinge-Cap, Williams is winning more
friends than ever before. See if you ever used a shaving cream as good.

Williams Shaving Cream
$250 in Prizes
For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following:
1st prize, $100; 2nd prize, $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes, $5
each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons are deemed worthy of prizes, the full
amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced
as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper only, putting name,
address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury,
Conn.
