4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.................Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........................Managing Editor
W. W. ................Assistant Managing Editor
C. ................Assistant Managing Editor
A. ................Peanut Parcher Editor
................Associate Editor
................Associate Editor
................Associate Editor
................Alumni Editor
................Athletic Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON................Circulation Manager
T. O. McILWAINE...............Subscription Manager
G. R. HUNTER...................Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON.................Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH....................

Reporters’ Club
M. GARRISON
P. GLADNEY
HOLLINGSWORTH
JONES

President
Vice-Pres.
Sec.-Treas.

McILWAINE
McMILLAN
E. K. REGEN
J. B. THOMPSON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

CHRISTMAS

Before very long, tinkling sleigh bells and a stamping of tiny reindeer hoofs will herald the approach of that prince
of good fellows, old St. Nicholas, the patron saint of the joyous yuletide season. The brilliant green and red of
the holly wreaths, the gleaming candle set in the window, and the hurrying throngs of the street will all lend
their presence to the prevalent spirit of good will and happiness. And it is then the birthday of our Saviour,
who was born on that silent, star-lit night in Judea so many years ago. Since that time all mankind has
paid homage to Him who ruled in all gentleness and humility; Christmas has come down to us as a day
of rejoicing and of gracious praise.

As the spirit of the day has been kept for centuries, so it is kept today. Men’s minds have not
changed much during all the lapse of years; the Christ whom they glorified then is the same real person today
as in ages past. In the Middle Ages the Christmas season was the scene of much joy and happiness. The
great cathedrals were lighted with waxen tapers and filled with wondrous music; the myriad lights shone upon the choir who
sang the hymns of praise and adoration while the poor and rich alike bowed down in praise. And in England
the yuletide season was the happiest of all the year. The great yule log was brought in from the forest
to be burned to provide light for the festivities that were a part of the occasion. Groups of children went
from home to home on Christmas Eve and sang glad carols at all houses that showed lighted candles in the
windows.

The spirit of the season has not waned in this country. Even the staid Puritans relaxed some of their austereness
when the bells proclaimed another Christmas. In the old South it was the occasion for good times for all; gifts
to all the slaves and to neighbors; big feasts and merry-makings that were attended by all the people for miles
around. The holly and the mistletoe were the emblems of the most glorious of all days.

But today the true spirit of Christmas seems to have been relegated to the past. Gift-giving and receiving has been
carried to an extreme that signifies little of the original meaning. Much of the sacredness of the day has been
lost sight of in the hurry and bustle of this ever-increasing strenuous life; and the healthy enjoyment that once pervaded
the Christmastide has given way mostly to a superficial pleasure and delight. The value of a gift is too often
the criterion of appreciation, rather than the spirit of mind that prompted it.

Yet, underneath the seeming careless ex-

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

IN REGARD TO THE ANNUAL

The following letter from the business manager of last year’s Quips and Cranks is self-explanatory:

“In one of the editorials in the last issue of the Davidsonian, the editor referred to the fact that last
year’s business management of Quips and Cranks had left a debt of over half a thousand dollars to be liquidated
by the present Annual Staff. In order that the readers of the Davidsonian may not be misinformed the following will
serve to correct somewhat this statement.

“At the opening of the college year a balance of $390.00 was due the publishers of 1924 Quips and Cranks.
Checks in the amount of $104.00 were sent, leaving a balance of $486.00. Advertising accounts in the amount of $73.00,
and fraternity assessments in the amount of $102.50 were still due, and at the request of this year’s manager were
turned over to him for collection. This would leave the balance to be paid $310.50. Deducting from this the discount
received from approximately 200 individual photographs, would leave the balance at $210.50.

“Another fact to be taken into consideration is that something like twenty-five annuals ordered were not taken by students, some
of them members of the present Senior class. This item would amount to $75.00 which would reduce the balance further
making the deficit considerably less than half a thousand dollars.

“The fact that last year’s staff handled a debt of $880.15 should be taken into account in dealing with this
matter. An amount almost three times that of the deficit by the 1924 Quips and Cranks.

“The editor-in-chief was either misinformed as to the figures, or in a sudden outburst of Class Spirit amplified somewhat in
writing his editorial. This article is not written to criticize the editor of the Davidsonian, but merely to straighten out
the matter of the deficit on the 1924 Quips and Cranks. The deficit was due to two reasons, failure on
the part of students to take annuals ordered, and over-running the budget fixed by the Annual Staff. The latter was
the fault of the Editor-in-Chief, the Manager, and the publishers equally, not the Manager alone.”

(Signed)
O. J. ALLISON,
Manager, 1924 Quips and Cranks.

In regard to the editorial comment on the annual, which appeared last week, all we can say is that there
was no intentional slur cast upon last year’s management. The only statement made was that

“The 1925 Quips and Cranks is sailing along under full steam again, despite the iceberg, in the form of over
half a thousand dollars deficit left by last year’s business management, which almost put it out of commission at the
start of her journey.”

It is easy to see where the misinformation came in, as the manager says in his letter that at the

TIME AND SELF-EFFICIENCY

“I don’t see how so-and-so does so much! I work my fool head off and don’t accomplish half as much
as he does.”

“I wish I could utilize my time like that boy. I don’t have time for anything, and hardly keep up
with my work; yet he takes in several of the school activities, and then beats me in grades.”

“I can’t understand how these boys who go out for athletics pass their work at all, ’cause I don’t have
time for any exercise, and I don’t do anything extra in my studies.”

Such are some of the plaintive remarks often made by college students, and unfortunately, they are absolutely correct when they
say that they don’t have time for anything but their regular college studies, and that they can’t understand how other
students accomplish so much more than they do. They don’t seem to realize that the other fellow’s day is just
as short as theirs. It is not a question of how much time they have, but how they use what
time they do have.

Present day college life is pretty strenuous. It is true that a student’s time is heavily drawn on by the
many college activities outside of his regular college work. But the fact that there are so many activities to choose
from makes it easier for the students to have a well-rounded college life; that is, of course, provided that the
student wants to get the most out of his college course. There is considerably more to be learned at college
than books, and on the other hand, athletics, or dramatics, or how to be a good mixer in polite society.
The man who goes to collegeand learns nothing but books has wasted half of what his attendance at college cost
him; and the man who attends college solely for athletics is a poorer economist. The student who develops his self-efficiency
to the highest point is the one who trains his mind with his body, and at the beginning of the
college year the balance was $590.00. If a mistake has been made, we are glad to rectify it. However, in
justice to this year’s management, it is only fair to say in regard to the above statements, that $50.00 of
the $104.00 in checks came from the sale of annuals, which students had ordered and failed to take; that $35.00
of the $75.00 advertising debts turned over to the 1925 staff were uncollectable; and that discounts received on individual pictures
came from this year’s individual pictures and by no stretch of the imagination could be credited to the work of
last year’s management. It was in no sudden outburst of class spirit that the line of comment was written last
week. We take this opportunity to present the facts to the student body. EDITOR.

Exterior of pleasure-seeking, there lies a deeper sense of respect and love for Christmas. It has and always will be
the most joyous day in the year and everyone looks forward to it as to no other day. It is
then friendships are renewed and family ties made stronger. And lastly, because it is the birthday of Christ, it is
loved by all the world. C.F.S.

Theoretically, the purpose of going to college is to attain the maximum of self-efficiency, in order to be best prepared
to serve in life. There are several ways of increasing self-efficiency, but the most effective method is probably the systematic
use of time. Some students are naturally systematic and accomplish a great deal with apparently little effort as compared with
some others, but no student really accomplishes anything without the consumption of some of his time and real energy. The
most common causes of such remarks as those quoted above are unsystematic use of time and laziness. There are lots
of fellows who are always wishing that they could do things like others, and dream that they do great things,
but they never get any further than this, because they are unwilling to put forth the necessary effort. Last spring
our minister preached a sermon on how to economize time, and in this sermon he suggested that the students make
out a program of their daily work and divide up their time outside of classes, setting aside definite periods for
study, others for their various meetings, others for exercise, others for reading, and still others not assigned to any particular
thing but to be used as the occasion demanded. This seemed a very elaborate scheme, and I wondered at the
time how many of the boys would try it, and if they made out such a schedule whether it would
be possible to follow it. To my surprise a good many students immediately set to work and made out a
program, providing definite times for all of the activities that they were interested in and set to work to carry
them out. This method is not wholly without fault, but it brings unusual and prompt results. It takes a great
amount of willpower to change from a take-’em-as-they-come life to a systematic and orderly life, doing things at a certain
time, instead of waiting for the spirit to move or the notion to strike. And such a schedule cannot be
strictly adhered to even for a whole day, because conditions are always arising that necessitate a deviation from the schedule.
But the fact remains that this method has a strong tendency to systematize the life of the student and puts
more time at his disposal for things which before he couldn’t find time to do. After a time a schedule
is unnecessary and the student finds that his efficiency has greatly increased, and that instead of being rushed to death
all of the time and getting nothing done, he has time to devote to outside activities besides being more efficient
in his work. W.H.A.

Chaff LETTERS TO SANTA CLAUS

Jaybirdsville, N.C. December 1924.

Dear Sandy Claws,

I am writing you this here letter because I don’t want you to forget me like you did last Christmas.
You know, I cried for nearly a week last year, you know you forgot to bring me my kiddie car
and my pop gun. Please, Mr. Santie, bring me a pop gun this year, for I want it so as
I can shoot out of my windows when the naughty boys cut the dormitory lights off at night. You know,
Mr. Claws, I would have made the ‘Fido Beat de Cat up’ what they had here in Sherry Hall a
couple of weeks ago if Peewee McKravy had left the lights on, but I guess he thinks I am an
owl, and I can’t do any good if they think like that. Oh yes, I want a set of paper
dolls and a Latin jack too, please sir, and I want a subscription to Good Housekeeping, for Mrs. Smithe said
if she ever found my room in the fix it was in last time, she would have me shipped. I
don’t see nothing bad in cutting a hole in the floor big enough to spit tobacco juice in, do you?
Then I had knocked a hole in the wall to see what the darned thing was made of, and there
weren’t any logs in there, either, there were only little pine slabs about the size of the ones what the
boys hold prayer meetings with. Well, I must stop. Be sure to come to see me this year.

Yours truly, FATS LAWS.

Dive in, son, N.C. Yesterday.

Dear Mistery Klause,

I am a little boy about as big as a minute with thirteen seconds cut off of it, but I
want some Christmas too, please be sure to bring me lots of nice things next Christmas. I want a carton
of Camels and about three plugs of Brown’s Mule, but don’t let him kick you while you are bringing him
to me. I also want a set of craps and a little leather cup and I won’t drink coffee out
of it either. Also bring me the kind of cards that I can play strip poker with. I don’t know
what kind of poker that is, but I can learn, for I am young. Listen, I made up this here
poetry, how do you like it: I am young and full of hope I wash my hands with Octagon soap.
Now I think you ought to bring me a package of Home Run Cigarettes for that poetry. Do it please.
I will be looking for you.

Your little friend, JOSHUA BONEYPART KUYKENRALL, JR.

Davidson, N.C. December 11th, 1924.

The Rt. Hon. Mr. S. Claus, 59436870 Whiteway Bldg. The Milky Way.

Dear Sir:

When in the course of human events it becomes necessary for people to participate in the celebrations of the festal
season, it is at that time that the duties of Mr. Santa Claus become great, and it is then that
he must bound forth in all the glory that he is able to bring to the surface of his portly
countenance that said pompousness may aid him in the distribution of incoherent playthings among the ecclesiastical wanderlings of the great
erratic wastelands of America and Baton Rouge, La. It is therefore my request, Oh most wretched of all human beings,
that you make me a visit during this coming season. According to the exoteric assimilations and promulgations of the pharmaceutical
conscript of platonic coal heavers, a penalty of the most assimilated character and design will be most fabulously acclimated to
the reader if he fails to confiscate and masticate the above express desires of the writer. It stands to reason
that enough has been said on the subject, and that by this time you surely know that the writer has
reasons, by far too numerous to mention, for wanting you to send to him prepaid and yet C.O.D., postpaid, and
yet collect, outlaid and yet displayed, one and three-twenty-sixths ounces of parched peanuts. Wishing you the highest degree of success
in your future work, I beg to remain, yours very truly indeed, JAMES PATRICK GLADNEY.

JPG: jh Dictated but not read, he haw!

A telegram has just been received from Santa who asks us, through the columns of CHAFF to wish each and
every inmate of Jaybirdsville a most happy Christmas. He also stated that anyone who wishes to have his sock filled
on the night before Christmas to have it hanging up right beside the loudspeaker, as that is the way he
will enter all houses this Christmas, and he also wishes to remind all gentle readers that they must be sure
to mend all holes in their socks except the one at the top.

G. McM. Jr.
