6 _ THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

Literary Societies

Phi
The Philanthropic Literary Society started the spring session with a very good meeting. The affirmative side of the main debate, represented by R. H. Brown and H. M. Wells, won over R. O. Sellers and F. K. Justice of the negative. The query was: Resolved, that the United States should enter the world court. In an extemporaneous debate, J. C. Barrington of the affirmative was defeated by J. E. Holshouser of the negative, on the question: Resolved, that the students should have a home day for visits by the faculty. J. R. Gudger gave an oration on “Credits,” in which he told of the different kinds of credits everyone gets from the different phases of life. W. G. Houck gave an appropriate oration on “The Ideals of Wilson, and the Power of Roosevelt.”

Metro
The Metrophilian Literary Society adjourned a few minutes after it had convened Tuesday night, on account of the poor condition of the lights. The society did not attempt to carry out any business or any part of the program.

Pan
The last meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society was mostly taken up with the discussion of the plan recommended by the Alpha Phi Epsilon Forensic Fraternity. The chief speaker of the evening was W. M. Cox. The society will operate on the plan of a regular constituted legislative body, having the same officers as under the old plan. The parties will temporarily be under the leadership of W. M. Cox and D. B. Walt- hall. The rules of parliamentary procedure were discussed and mimeographed copies of rules, issued by the Public Speaking Department of the College, were distributed. The reports of committees were heard and the meeting was adjourned.

PURDY WILL EVACUATE COLLEGE INFIRMARY SUNDAY
The infirmary’s casualty list for last week, due to flu and the prevention of smallpox, included McCarty, McDonald, McBryde, L. W. Wells, Fleming, Carr, Stith, Pete Blue, Sam Inman, and Sam Doss. The case of Fresh Doss is particularly interesting. One morning he ventured down to see how many classes he could get excused from and upon reaching the infirmary was informed that he was not ill, so he retraced his steps back to Watts. An hour later he was found (by Mrs. Smith) in his room apparently ill. Immediately a stretcher was brought and he was hauled to the infirmary, this time to stay a while (where there’s a will there’s a way). However, Fresh Doss is again displaying the Red and Black around the campus and is feeling fine. The student body will be glad to learn that Purdy is very much improved, after having introduced the smallpox scare on the campus. He will probably be released Sunday.

Plans Made for Student Conference at Charlotte
Prominent Speaker and Volunteer Workers Will be on Program at Queen City
Definite plans for the biggest Student Volunteer Conference Old North State has ever known are fast materializing. On Friday, March 7th, the first session will be held at Queens College, Charlotte, N. C., while the closing consecration service will be on the evening of Sunday, March 9th. Queens College Y. W. C. A. will be the hostess to the more than 300 delegates that are expected to enroll for the convention. Speakers for the assembly are among the most popular in the country; typical among them is Tom Sharpe, Executive Secretary of the Nation Union, who is the idol of volunteers far and wide. In a number of ways, the coming conference will differ from those in the past. A unique plan of entertainment has been perfected. The delegates will be furnished breakfast and lodging at the homes in which they are guests. Lunch and dinner will be served in cafeteria style at the college. Unusually attractive social features are on the program, perhaps the most delightful event will be a monster banquet in the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.

WHAT IS YOUR OPINION ABOUT THE FOLLOWING
How can the American student answer the indictment made by world leaders that American students don’t really think? How is this indictment justified, if at all? Do American students care about or keep up as a class with world affairs? Is this caused by provincialism, selfishness, lack of initiative, lack of interest, or the throng of activities crowded into the college man’s life? Is it necessary or even important that American students keep up with situations at home and in Europe and Asia? Why so? What influence will the American student of today have in guiding the trend of public opinion five and ten years from now?

“Four things a man must learn to do
If he would make his records true:
To think without confusion clearly,
To love his fellow-men sincerely,
To act from honest motives purely,
To trust in God and heaven securely.”

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT —
Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ANATOLE FRANCE
Anatole France, who is reported critically ill in dispatches from Paris, is an eminent French novelist, who also has done notable work as a critic and historian. His real nameJacques Anatole Thibault was born in Paris 80 years ago. When he was 24 years old, his first work, a study of Alfred de Vigny, was published. It was followed in 1873 by a volume of verse, which attracted much favorable attention. However, he was to shine more in prose than in verse. A skeptic in religion and science, doubting all things, his opinions and doubts were put forth through the characters he created. He has a style that is simple and direct, and the real character of the man is reflected in his works. Anatole France was admitted to the French Academy in 1896. Critics have pronounced him the most graceful writer of modern France.—Charlotte Observer.

SHOWING AT DAVIDSON MONDAY, FEB. 18
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
The DINNER SUIT
DEBONAIR, comfortable, tailored with care that ensures both smartness and wear, from materials approved by exclusive use. The comfort extends to the price.
DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50
Manufactured and sold exclusively by NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.
841 Broadway, N.W. Cor. 13th St.
Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N.H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N.J.
Our style-memo book will be sent free on request.

Twenty-five is the quota assigned to Davidson College. Due to the proximity of the conference this year, the Davidson quota will doubtless be filled at once. The Presbyterian union is among the most active in North Carolina, and the local band has always included in its membership a number of the state leaders. The present treasurer of the state union is C. M. McBryde, of the Senior Class, while last year the president was Rex Ingram.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing, Dry Cleaning, Pressing (Shoe Shine In Connection)
8 E. Trade St., CHARLOTTE

FIVE YEARS AGO
Honor roll men for the fall term were as follows: Junior—A. L. Foscue with an average of 95.80; Sophomore—W. P. Cumming, 95.86; Freshmen—J. P. Price, 95.94 and J. M. Richards, 95.04.

The 1919 Davidson basketball varsity was on a trip through the state of Virginia this week. The team was composed of Davenport, right forward; Harrington, left forward; McAskill, center; Chalmers, right guard; and Schenck, left guard. The Wildcats fared badly on the trip, losing a majority of the contests played. Harrington was the outstanding star in the game with the Virginia quintette.

Photography by JOHN F. SEITZ
Featuring ALICE TERRY, LEWIS STONE, RAMON NOVARRO
From the novel by RAFAEL SABATINI
Adaptation by WILLIS GOLDBECK

Baseball practice started this week with a large number of men reporting to Coach Fetzer for the main workouts. Nine letter men are back this year. They are: Ratchford, Sutton, Boswell, Cassell, Spann, Richards, Miley, Clark, and Currie. The schedule includes several long road trips.

The Greek fraternity averages for the fall term were announced as follows: S.A.E. 83.56; Beta Theta Pi 82.61; K.A. 81.04; K.S. 77.48; and P.K.A. 75.83. The S.A.E. chapter was the winner of the Belk fraternity cup for the highest scholarship record.

"The perfect cream in the perfect container" (This is the way one user describes Williams and the new Hinge-Cap)
Men buy Williams for their main satisfaction in the Hinge-Cap. But when they first use the cream, they get an equally pleasant surprise. The heavier lather, the greater thoroughness with which it softens the beard, make a hit at once. Then, Williams lather lubricates the skin so that the razor fairly "glides" the hairs off. And last, there’s that delightful after-care of the skin. Truly, you'll find that with the Hinge-Cap Williams is "miles ahead." It’s a pure cream without coloring matter of any kind.

$250 in prizes
For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; 3rd and 4th prizes, $25 each; 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, and 10th prizes, $10 each. Any college student is eligible. If several persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight, March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of the paper only, putting name, address, college, and class at the top of each sheet. Address: Contest Editor, The J.B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

Y.M.C.A. Theatre, Sat., Feb. 16, 7:15