Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 10, 1924 No. 15

Famous Men Address Seven Thousand Students at International Conference

Ninth Quadriennial Gathering Includes Representatives from Bands in Thirty Countries

MANY DAVIDSON MEN

Questions of World Scope Discussed by Groups and Views Presented by Many Nationalities

The new Cadle Tabernacle, Indianapolis, Ind., with about eight thousand seats, was filled almost to capacity, when at 3:00 p.m., December 28, 1923, students representing every important college and university in the United States and Canada, as well as thirty foreign countries, gathered together for the ninth Quadrennial Convention of the Student Volunteer Movement. For five days the tabernacle rang with the voices of men whose names are household words; for five days world problems were presented in a practical way by leaders with a world vision. And now those seven thousand students have scattered to their own campuses, and the story of the convention is yet to be told.

Three thoughts, each leading up to the next, seemed to run through the entire convention. First, in the words of John R. Mott, "The choice of one’s life work is small in comparison with the choice of what shall be the directing purpose of one's life." Second, world problems can be nationally settled only as the solution is based on principles of Jesus Christ. Third, these problems of every continent stand as a challenge to the students of today, who must tomorrow take the helm in a strangely complicated new world.

A new feature of the convention was introduced in the form of about 50 discussion groups, where the group opinion of students from all parts of the country could be formed. The two questions which claimed the largest share of attention were those of race equality and the prevention of war.

(Continued on page 3)

Pi Kappa Phi Sanctions Petition of Kappa Phis

Local Fraternity’s Petition Favored at National Conclave in Atlanta

At the national convention of Pi Kappa Phi fraternity, held during the Christmas holidays, in Atlanta, sanction was given for the regranting of a Pi Kappa Phi charter to a group of Davidson men. Three representatives of Kappa Phi local attended the Atlanta conclave in the interest of the petitioning fraternity, and the action taken by the national organization indicates that Davidson will soon have her seventh national fraternity. M. C. Stith, W. M. Heston, and I. L. Price were the three Davidson representatives at the annual conclave. The full membership of Kappa Phi local, organized last fall, is as follows: M. C. Stith, R. L. Price, W. S. Glenn, John M. Selser, J. E. Reid, W. M. Heston, H. L. Shaw, Jr., E. T. Buck, C. M. Brown, F. C. Kugler, Kenneth Lewis, B. W. Williams, C. M. Streibich, W. M. Gracey.

Pi Kappa Phi was formerly represented at Davidson. The charter was withdrawn and the order disbanded in 1918, during the war. The reorganization of Pi Kappa Phi will meet popular approval on the campus, according to opinion expressed since the opening of the new term when the announcement was made of the action of the Atlanta Convention.

It is announced by members of Kappa Phi that inspection of the local will be made in the near future and definite action will be taken, following the sanction of the national conclave. In the event that the charter is regranted at Davidson, the new chapter will be installed during early spring, it is believed.

POPULAR WILDCAT MENTOR SIGNS COACHING CONTRACT

Dr. J. M. Douglas, the faculty director of athletics, makes the announcement that Coach Monk Younger has been signed as head coach for the year 1924-1925. In addition to this, Dr. Douglas makes the statement that Coach Monk's work has been satisfactory in every respect to the Athletic Council. Considering the material at hand to work with and the fact that this was Younger’s first year, the Council is exceedingly well pleased with the record of the team and predicts that in 1924 Davidson will have a football team second in ability to none as this year’s team was in determination and fight.

Men Attending Conference Address Students

Price, Hudgins, and James Give Impressions Gleaned at World Conference

The first “Y” service of the new year was conducted wholly by students and was of the nature of a report on the ninth Student Volunteer Quadrennial Convention, held at Indianapolis, Indiana, during the closing days of the last year. Seven Davidson students were present at this convention, while 16 more former Davidson men were delegates from other places. Ted Jones, president of the Y. M. C. A., presided and made a few remarks about the convention which he said was a student convention with seven thousand delegates from all over the world, and which included every kind of student. It was the regular convention of the Volunteer Movement, but not solely that, for it was representative of the student thought in the various student movements of the world today.

Perrin Hudgins spoke first, giving his impressions of the conference. The keynote seemed to him to be the right of God to a place in our lives if we wish to make the most out of them. With reference to Mott and Eddy, he showed the willingness of God to come into our lives, and that it is only as we open the door that His power can flow into our lives and through them into other lives. Harry Price brought some of the messages of John R. Mott with directness and vigor. According to Mott, the present generation is “dissatisfied with the past and with the present; is critical; is enquiring; hates sham and hypocrisy; it has a spirit of vision and adventure; and it is ready to go to extremes even as Christ went to extremes.” Because of these qualities, this generation is prepared to begin solving world problems and national problems. Many of these problems are readily recognized while others are of a more subtle nature. “Shall we go into life to change the dollar mark?” “Shall the South become provincial in its dealings with the negro?” “Can a businessman, a politician, follow the Jesus way of life?” It was the last question which was most scathing in its keen analysis of the average college student. It asked, “Are we to put our energies into non-essentials to the exclusion of the essentials? That is, is the spiritual side of us to be less thought of than the pleasure side? Is the lighter side of life, which has a place, to rule our lives and prevent the deeper part of us ever having a chance of real service?”

Randolph Jones spoke last. He told of the world speakers who addressed the convention and who hurled indictments against the average college student. They were that he knows nothing of world affairs and he is (Continued on page 3)

C. M. DAVIS Captain-Elect 1924 Football Team

Students Back at Work After Two Weeks Vacation

Boys Return to Long Grind Before Exams Break Monotony

The chapel bell on January 3rd bespoke the end of a perfect two-weeks’ holiday for Davidson students, summoning them back to work after an acceptable vacation spent at home and with relatives. Approximately 550 students have registered up to date, several failing to return after the holidays and the customary few absent by reason of too good a time at home.

With the advent of the mid-term examinations due by all probability to occur the last of this month, many have felt the crave to knuckle down and bolster up their studying average by spending a few more hours with their books in order to wind up with a great flourish their exams. As examinations officially begin on the 22nd, only 12 days of (Continued)On page 2) RESOLVED by the Senior Class in mass assembled on this, the seventh day of January, 1924, THAT, inasmuch as any destruction, defacement, or pollution of property is uncalled for, unwarranted, and indicative of baseness and immorality; WE, as students of Davidson, beneficiaries of her Alumni and friends,—objects of philanthropy, if you please, and guardians of a sacred trust, are doubly bound, yes, bound a hundred times by the moral obligation of preserving these buildings and grounds we are privileged to use, and leaving them to future generations defaced alone by time and proper service. THEREFORE, the Class of 1924 as a unit places itself definitely opposed to all uncalled-for damaging of college property both useful and ornamental. EACH MEMBER, deeply sensible of his personal duty, FURTHER PLEDGES HIMSELF to uphold the spirit of this resolution by his own conduct, thus discouraging the evil, and to prevent it even by force when and where necessary. The conditions are so known that the above may speak for itself. (Signed): Randolph Jones, Jr., President. By J. L. McLean, Secretary.

Coach Younger Develops Red and Black Cagemen Into Well-Balanced Machine

CHRISTIAN ELECTED TO LEAD FRESHMAN CLASS

At a meeting of the Freshman class, held after chapel on the morning of January 7th, W. A. Christian, Jr., was elected president. Other nominees were E. A. J. Hewlett, C. C. Murchison, T. H. O. Sapp, J. I. McConnell, J. I. Bohannon, and Pinckney. All of the men except Christian were nominated by the Student Council. On the first ballot Christian, Sapp, and Pinckney were the highest, but on the final ballot Christian had an overwhelming majority. Christian is a man who will lead the class of '27 in a true Davidson manner. The other class officers will be elected later.

Hoboing Favorite Sport of Boys During Vacation

Many Boys Take Advantage of Free Rides to Make Long Holiday Trips

Answering the primeval call of the open road, several of Davidson's students utilized their Christmas vacation by hiking to their homes and to other places, scorning the more modern conveyances such as railroad trains, and depending on their pedal extremities and such rides as might be encountered along the length of the road. Trips ranging from one hundred to a thousand miles were made by those students seized with the wanderlust and with a craving for the home hearth fire that offset any thought of a depleted purse.

Henry Martyn White, the original back-to-nature man of the campus, engaged upon a survey of that part of the Land of the Sky adjacent to Mount Mitchell and Asheville, with Nuncle Mellwaine as his side partner. Henry met the last-named traveler at Statesville, after having hoboed to Raleigh in 12 hours, and they two set out for the high hills with full marching and camping regalia. A sleeping bag knocked off the chilly blasts of the Blue Ridge at nights while the culinary skill of Henry Martyn provided some sort of sustenance that kept the wayfarers nourished during the stay. Wild tales have come back from this region of the quantities of mountain dew that was drunk by them and of the fierce man-killers that were bearded in their dens. Their route lay along the South Toe river, and the slopes of the higher ranges of the Blue Ridge, and pictures were taken of this beautiful section in addition to the more strenuous work of keeping warm and getting enough to eat.

Perrin Hudgins and Norman Patterson, with blankets swung over their shoulders, lived off the country as they advanced on Richmond, approaching that city from Davidson, and riding in big cars most of the way. Stopping only long enough to see some of the fair sex at Greensboro, they set out again and soon secured a ride from a Connecticut Yankee who was seeking his native heath after a sojourn in the Land of Flowers. Another ride with two more young gentlemen brought them as far as their destination with only an expense account of 80 cents each to show for their time, including a six bits’ dinner Friday.

Atlanta and Birmingham claimed the attention of those boys who were following Greeley's advice to go West. “Blackie” Rayburn undertook the longest trip of all, getting from Davidson to Birmingham and from that place back to Jaybirdsville and school. His destination was his home in Pulaski, Tenn., but was forced to mount the “iron horse” at Birmingham in order to save time.

Squad of Twelve Men Battle for Position on 1924 Wildcat Quint

Prospects Bright for Winning Quint — Regular Line-up Undecided

With the effects of the Christmas holidays subsiding, the cage artists are hard at work for their last stretch of intensive training before the opening contest with the Charlotte "Y" at the Queen City next Monday night. Since the holiday interruption, the men have been holding daily work-outs, and rounding to the point where they will be keyed and ready for the first battle. With seven letter men and several other promising players, Coach Monek will have a chance to pick a good team. The loss last year of Pat Crawford and George Mauze, two former Wildcat captains of the cage court fighters, is one that is going to be felt. Mauze and Crawford were a pair that worked with clocklike precision, the latter at floor guard position, and the former at center. The selection of men to fill these vacancies is puzzling Coach Monek, and the men who will be able to cop these berths will not be decided upon until after the first game in Charlotte.

There are only three of the positions apparently cinched, according to the coach. Red Laird, who has been tried out at the guard position, is going to be shifted to the forward berth, according to present indications. Red is not fast enough for a guard, but will be able to show his mettle at forward. Staley will be his partner, and in him will be seen one of the fastest forwards that will appear on the local hardwood floor this year. Staley is light, but he can effectively deliver the goods. Only one of the guard positions has been filled, Sook Boggs having captured it by his stellar and steady playing. Boggs will keep the Wildcats’ opponents some dis-

(Continued on page 2)

Billy Sunday Will Speak Before Davidson Audience

Noted Evangelist Accepts Invitation to Address

Billy Sunday has accepted an invitation to visit Davidson College some day in the immediate future. The date he will be here has not yet been definitely decided, but it is certain that he will come. His acceptance was received only after being invited repeatedly.

His intensive revival in Charlotte is now well under way. Meetings are held twice daily at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m. A huge tabernacle with a seating capacity of about 7,000 has been erected especially for the occasion. The campaign will last until February 10th. It began December 30th.

Tomorrow night will be known as Students’ Night. The Davidson student body has chartered a special train for the trip. The Queens and Winthrop student bodies have also been invited to attend. The program will be exceptional and extremely well worth attending.

Many students are availing themselves of the opportunity afforded by the special busses to attend the revival services. Busses leave Davidson at 1:20 and 6:20 daily, returning at 9:30 p.m. The special rate for the round trip is the minimum price of one dollar.

Mr. Walter Jenkins, of the Billy Sunday party, an experienced and noted singer and musician, is in charge of the singing. He handles the four hundred voice choir as if it had had considerable previous training. Special seats in the bass and tenor sections of the choir are reserved for Davidson students.

Mr. Sunday is receiving capacity crowds:

(Continued on page 8)