4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE... Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN... Business Manager

Editorial Staff
G. C. MUL... Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON... Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK... Assistant Managing Editor
J. M. SELS... Athletic Editor
A. F. PARCHER... Editor
A. LAKE... Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE... Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW... Associate Editor
G. ROGERS... Alumni Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON... Circulation Manager
A. S. CSEWAIN... Subscription Manager
W. H. LYNCH...

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
I. E. MOORE
M. APPLEBY
J. P. O'CONNOR
J. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
R. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
A. K. REGEN
E. K. REGE
J. D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Junior Week with all its pleasures has come and gone, and classes have been revived once more. Less than a
month remains till exams begin, but the remaining time is a period of hard work for all.

The Carolina game at Gastonia on Easter Monday was a fitting conclusion to the holidays. Carolina won in football and
basketball after two hard battles, and even won the Spanish debate, but Monk Younger’s nine turned the trick in one
of the most exciting ball games ever staged in these parts.

Everything now is pointed for the Trinity game on May 3rd. The 4-3 win over the Blue Devils in Gastonia
last spring, like the Carolina game this year, was won in the ninth. Pat Crawford last year, and Sion Alford
this season are the boys who did the work.

The following extract is clipped from the Emory Wheel of April 10:
A Japanese to Edit Davidsonian
Recent student elections at Davidson College prove that there is no racial prejudice there, and that a man is elected
for his ability and for what he has done rather than for what he is. C. M. S. (Chong) McIlwaine,
of Koeli, Japan, occupies the rank of chief-journalist of Davidson by virtue of his success in the Davidsonian election held
recently.

Because a man comes from America, he is not necessarily an American, nor is a man who comes from Japan
necessarily a Japanese. Whenever a man is named “Mc,” it’s ten chances out of nine that he is not a
Japanese, no matter where he comes from. The Scotch are the ones who are usually in the habit of using
the name.

With Commencement only a month away, the Seniors are completing plans for the occasion of their departure. In everything the
Class of ’24 has had charge of, they have had signal success. They put over a wonderful Junior Week last
year; their work along all lines has been constructive. When they receive their reward for four years of work and
go out into life, they will leave a great record behind them.

The eighth convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will meet at Elon College, May 1, 2, and 3.
Liston Elkins, who has been at the helm for the past year, relinquishes his post. Elkins is the second president
of the Association to come from Davidson. J. Eris Cassell, ’21, is the other man to hold the honor. The
Press Association has aided greatly in the development of the college papers in the state, and now Carolina publications are
well up among the leaders of the South. Elkins relinquished the editorship of the Davidsonian three weeks ago, and now
will retire from his office in the N. C. C. P. A. His work in both organizations will not soon
be forgotten.

WHAT NEXT?

Now that the year draws to a close, we begin thinking of our work for the summer, and even look
into our plans for the coming year. Some of us are leaving Davidson for the last time, with our four
years’ record—good, bad, or mediocre—printed indelibly on the pages of her history. Others leave for a vacation to return again
in the fall for another year of college life, with its varied activities. Still a third class leave in the
middle of their college course, with the best part of their college life still in the future, without the intention
of returning.

A college course is of inestimable value in after life. At the vital period of a boy’s life, he is
given training in college which no other institution can give. College is merely a stepping-stone to a successful life. In
college, a man is given the theoretical knowledge which will later prove valuable in practice; in college, a man is
taught to think, to develop his mental faculties to the utmost. College is not merely attending classes, eating three meals
a day, studying at night and turning in until the next morning. College is far more than that. It offers
a wide field. Athletics, literary societies, publications, work of an executive character, all have their place in training men, along
with the first requisite of scholarship. But greatest of all, is the contact with the men who will run things
tomorrow, the men who will be leaders, and the chance to mingle with them on the highest plane of friendship.
All these things are included in the term “college.”

To you who are contemplating dropping out of school and entering work: Would it not be better to come back
and finish your college course? Would it not be better to finish what you have started? A part of a
thing is worth far less in proportion than the whole. Your one, two, or three years will be worth far
less to you than the four-year course. Each year in college means more than the preceding year. Some who are
dropping out have good reasons for not finishing, but the majority who stop halfway do so from thoughtlessness. Thoughtlessness concerning
those things which they will lose as a result of stopping. Figures show that they will lose money by failing
to graduate. But, in addition to the cash value of a college education, there is the far more important mental,
physical, and moral training which college gives. Is the future worth sacrificing for present pleasure or profit?

THE WELL-ROUNDED MAN

A tangible plan has been evolved by leaders of campus activities for the government and regulation of membership in honorary
societies. This action, advocated some time...ago in the editorial columns of the Davidsonian and fostered by student body leaders, may
be regarded as one of the most valuable steps taken by the student body this year. There is clearly a
need for regulation in some form, and the plan now being presented to the various organizations for ratification is regarded
as a practical and feasible one. Its purpose is to limit membership in order that “membership pools” be avoided. It
is not to the best interest of the organizations concerned, or the men eligible for membership, to allow one man
to wear pins and keys of every society and club on the hill. A man cannot keep faith with his
fellow members and remain in sympathy with the aims of four or five organizations, even if their standards are closely
allied. Time and energy will not permit it. It is the purpose of the new plan to supplement the present
point system in apportioning honors, and in ensuring a distribution made public within the next two weeks. There is a
probability that the present evil of over-organization will give place to a regulated organization which will be a powerful factor
for the development of the “well-rounded man.”

Speaking Spotlights

This is our paragraph about the rain. The Class of ’25 did do Junior Speaking up brown. Piggy Martin is
all right. He even bribed Jupe Pluvious and got Speedy Car a girl. The Junior Speeches were all that time
and effort could make them. One enthusiastic Freshman tried to tell his roommate why Piggy had not won first place.
“You see,” he said, “I thought he’d won anyway but if he’d made one of his ‘funny’ speeches he’d have
won hands down.” We would run the dictionary drier than ever if we tried to find all the adjectives that
could be used in praise of the “Speaking” girls. However, the three P’s sum it up fairly well: PLENTY; PRETTY;
PEPPY. By Jove, Rogers told us that there were more girls on the Hill this time than ever before. We
find that he made good use of this information for besides bringing two girls up for his own private use
he had fourteen dates with fifteen different girls. This is straight dope. Claimants for the title of “Reddest and Blackest
Sheik” will have to beat that.

We have collected some random statistics about the weekend: Number of times the expression “What a wonderful moon” was used:
749,002. Number of girls that did not think Junior Speaking “the best ever”: 0. Wear and tear on the golf
course Friday, Saturday, Sunday: $40,009.46 1/2. Number of boys that failed to find a new “flame” among the “fire”: 69
(see note). Collection taken up by a poor blind gold-miner from the boys after Speaking: $000.00. Number of letters written
home the next day: 526. Note: They had gone home.

Our tame freshman comes in with the statement that “Chick” McCrary’s girl got the “shortest” fellow on the Hill. Several
of the fire came to the “Circus Romanus” Saturday night armed to the teeth. They were afraid that someone would
throw the chickens to the lions, or Wildcats. As it was, nothing was thrown to the Wildcats but chicken sandwiches.
When he found that the very trees that he wanted to sit under Sunday afternoon were occupied by Freshmen and
their mates, “Gene” Regen rather regretted having turned them out on the grass. The Wildcat down at the gym attracted
everyone’s attention during the weekend, but nearly every girl here was agreed that it was far more soothing to feed
fish to the college seal. The returning brethren find that quite a few of those that stayed for Speaking are
burnt a beautiful shade of red. No, it was not caused by proximity to the radiance of the sun but
by proximity to...

Chaff

Upon the pages of History’s irrevocable time-book, the careers of the noblest and most revered members of Class ’24 have
been imprinted. In the days to come, the struggling Junior will hear sung in ballad and praised in prose the
laudations of the noble lives lived by these great and simple personalities while on the mud-ways and slush-ways of dear
old Davidson. But as some peerless commentator has inevitably phrased it, “Man is judged not by his line of acts
but by the acts of his line.” So with a view toward the perpetuation of the present Seniors into the
halls of undying fame, this publication has endeavored to obtain from each Senior a few words of wisdom for the
edification of future Senior classes. A majority of the Seniors were loathe to make any remarks but a few, understanding
the incalculable benefits to be conferred on countless thousands, repressed the behests of modesty and prepared the following extracts from
their distilleries of wisdom:

STATEMENT PREPARED BY D. B. WALTHALL
“Long years ago I appeared on the Davidson campus a green and verdant freshman. Now, as I leave the squeaks
and crackles of old Shearer, I feel I may draw from my now ripened stock of wisdom and leave a
few words to the coming generations. As is my custom, I shall give three points which I have followed carefully
and which all will profit by following likewise. These are: (1) Cultivate a distinctive method of hairdressing so as to
stand out from the ‘hoi polloi.’ (2) Always make an announcement in chapel; it keeps you before the public eye.
(3) Impress the professors with your vast knowledge and then never study. An adoption of these will assure a successful
Senior year.”

STATEMENT BY C. M. DAVIS
“Literature is not my strong point. However, ‘Actions speak louder than words if not as loud as Bull.’ To achieve
success combine the two: Activity and Bull. Never neglect an opportunity of doing something; whether good or bad; DO IT.
Never neglect an opportunity of playing the toreador; whether good or bad; SAY IT. Bull, action, and bull; but the
greatest of these is Bull.”

STATEMENT BY P. C. HENDERSON
“The good die young, and before I breathe my last let me leave this pearl of wisdom to the rising
Seniors or whoever may recognize its worth. I say: ‘CRITICISM is the key to the door of progress. Hammer all
things. When you find that you have exhausted everything knockable, start something yourself and knock that. The critic is the
great man. History has shown that the Thor that wields the hammer rules the world. History ever repeats itself. I
have not read the statements by these other fellows; but, they are rotten, are they not?”

A BLANK STATEMENT IN BLANK VERSE BY OUR BLANKEST POET
The candle of my college days burneth low
The winds sob sob ..
My heart cries forth in synchrony
A cloud Vermillion green of sorrow dims my eyes .. darkly darkly
One light I see
Upon the pinnacle of thought rises that silver flash.
I grope .. It is gone .. comes again .. GONE
There it is .. Ah I have it.
In the cover of endless darkness is this gem of rays FULL blown.
I fly to the two-headed dove of Fellowship.
The giving of self and soul to the comradeship with fellow Man.
Full time of life devoted to friendship.
THAT is this gleam, this gem, this thought.

WATT McCAIN’S ADVICE TO RISING SENIORS
As Told to N. O. Pocobullo
“Me? Give rising seniors the dope on how I succeeded?
“Well, I dunno. My policy has always been to let things slide and to slide with them. A rolling stone,
you know. Yeh, you won't find any moss on me.
“So, you want some advice for the boys... Tell them this: Let the wild, wild women be. Also drinks that
aren’t free. And if your ‘line’ to rhyme descends or follows these new blank verse trends, don’t write these crazy
songs like me.”
