THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

Blue Pencil Poets Sing of Glorious Springtime
Lays of Literary Artists forerun the Song of the Robin and the Chirp of the Cricket

The local chapter of Sigma Upsilon, in keeping with the spirit of approaching spring, has entered the poetry arena with a zest that bids fair to flood the local market. It was agreed at the last meeting of the chapter that each wearer of the Blue Pencil should submit at the next meeting a poem of not more than 48 lines written on the general theme of childhood reminiscences.

"Sonny" Pullen—Let's go to the Alhambra.
"P. C." Henderson—What they got on?
"Sonny"—Nothing much!
"P. C."—By all means, let's go then.

The feature of the meeting held March 31st, in the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Hall, was the reading of a one-act play written by Prof. E. J. Erwin, national president of Sigma Upsilon. The play is a highly humorous and interesting comedy entitled Ice Cream Soda or The Converted Missionary. A sketch of the life and works of Sherwood Anderson was read by W. F. Blue Pencil.

A song I sing of William Glenn.
He isn’t now, but he has been—shipped.

Flake Laird (to Detlienz)—"Say, Doc, next time you're down at Charlotte in a car load up a coupla chairs from the New Central. Saw a sign in there today, ‘These chairs are for our guests.’”

Galloway, president of VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES

Following the precedent set by Managing Editor McIlwaine, in terming a headline, “Red and Black Grapplers Defeat Blue Devils in Gripping Mat Contest,” we are reluctant to add as the proper heading for the V. M. I. match: “Black and Blue Grapplers Defeated by V. M. I. in Griping Mat Exhibition.”

From the Front Porch Swing
“Why, Worthless, you're short a coupla jaw teeth, how did you lose ‘em?”
And Worthless is so young and innocent.

ALHAMBRA THEATRE

Can You Imagine
School girls without “that skin you love to touch?”
Chesterfields not satisfying?
Children not crying for Fletcher's Castoria?
Men not walking miles for Camels?
Ivory soap not floating?
The Davidsonian not being the livest wire on the hill?
“Browns” not being the sensible place to eat?
The New Central not being “on the Square?”

The Merriest Place in Charlotte

CHEST COLDS
Redden the skin by the use of hot applications. Then massage briskly with Vicks, spread Vicks on thickly and cover with hot flannel cloths.

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

For two years my wife had been sick, and so upset she could hardly sleep with herself, but since taking six bottles of your wonderful remedy she is absolutely well and can now, etc., etc.
Yours truly, Carr Du Fye.

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit

Attention, “Christie” one you can see through:
“Red” McPherson—Had Davidson fish at the Trough today.
Bob. Mitchell (interrupting)—Davidson fish, what's that?
“Red”—Mad cats.

Matheson. Checking Accounts Invited

We would pull a good one on Davidson's mud but, regardless of the fact that it covers the ground, we don’t believe you could see through it.

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.

Fair Co-Ed of neighboring school—“Oh, Mr. Jones, what a pity it is that handsome men are always conceited.”
Ted Jones—“Not always, little girl; I’m not conceited.”

Skit McConnell, just for the sake of something new, is going to call his drug store a “Pilling Station.”

An Impressionistic’s View of Davidson
Gangling youths—muddy walks—cigarette smoke curling—waiting for the evening mail—loose books—chocolate candy—yawns—discarded love letters—absence cards—saxaphones.

Here's to Alexander, to Napoleon, or to the Caesars. He urged his hearers to give China the credit that is due her. In speaking more in regard to the Hangchow Christian College, the speaker brought out the fact that 255 boys are now in the college, and that large numbers are turned away every year. He showed views of the Administration Building, and two of their large dormitories, which resembled the new dormitories on the Davidson campus. In closing, the speaker used highly complimentary words in regard to the Davidson men who are connected with him in his work at Hangchow. He also stated that it was his desire to enlist a man who is to receive a degree from Davidson this year, to teach Chemistry in Hangchow. Doctor Fitch concluded his series of addresses Monday night when he lectured on the little known province of Tibet. The speaker carried his listeners to the strange, mystic land that was for so many years barred to human eyes. Doctor Fitch is one ofThe very few authorities on "the people and customs of Tibet" whose stories have been broadcast to the American people. His lecture was illustrated with stereopticon slides. The pictures were taken by the speaker himself, and tinted and finished by Chinese artists. 

Phone sounds from basement—horse shoes—mud—mud. Many a flapper buys loud colored hose just when she hears that March winds are coming. 

Joe Earnest went into a Charlotte store the other day to buy some white pants for tennis wear. A son of Palestine accosted him. "Vot do ye vant?" "I want a pair of white ducks," said Joseph. "Vot do ye tink this is," said the Jew, "a poultry store?"

A number of his pictures have appeared in the National Geographic. The tales of adventure related by Doctor Fitch were no less exciting than Arabian Nights. They were interspersed with unbelievable incidents.

There was an old lady lived under a hill, And when I was there she ran a good still. Corn licker she sold ye snake oil dandy, And s'mothers too when money was handy.

Dere Red: I reckon you would be mighty surprised if you was to see me now. I am in Porto Rico. The scenery and the senoritas are some different from those in the U.S.A. They had an election in this little town yesterday and the mayor wanted to get re-elected and so he had the elections in a house on a side street and he had the police out for target practice. They were on one side of the door and the target on the other side. The mayor was a unionist or something and so every time a Republican came to vote they started shooting at the target and every time a unionist came along they quit. Well Red, I reckon I don't have to tell you that the mayor was re-elected. And say old fish, I wish I could go to the Alhambra tonight with you because gosh they ain't no real good shows like that here. Well goodbye Red. Yours truly, Mike.

Burke—"Waiter, bring me some ice cream."
Waiter—"You want vanilla?"
Burke—"Huh?"
Waiter—"Will vanilla be all right?"
Burke—"No. What other kind you got?"
Waiter—"That's the only kind we got, suh."

Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia. Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City.

Educational Column for Dumbbells

Poetry is divided into three main classes: good, bad, and indifferent. The majority belongs to the latter two of these classes. You may ask what good is this stuff. Cultural people all appreciate poetry; if you can't appreciate it, the next best thing is to pretend that you do.

Besides being beautiful and sweet to hear, poetry is useful practically. Take for instance you are a lover: the adored one will swallow all the deep soulful stuff you can shove at her. Maybe you have read those immortal lines beginning, "If you love me like I love you, Roses are red and violets are blue..." These lines have conquered many a "fire." An even more practical use is this. When you have been "out" the preceding night, just approach your English prof. and say, "Oh, noble sir, please don’t rave, I tell you now I’m not a knave. Forgiveness, sir, is what I crave, Beginning now I'll be your slave If that zero you will save!" When he hears this he will be so dumbfounded that he will give the zero to another. You can easily see the advantage in this. Every cultural person should read and memorize some of the works of the following poets: Edgar A. Visitor, D. A. S., Captain William, Iambus Trochee, and Anonymous.

Spark Plug.

DOCTOR FITCH (Continued from page 1)

He brought to mind the fact that China has a great history, a great literature, and an ancient civilization of which they are justly proud. He called special attention to a Chinese general who in his exploits of war was not inferior.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY