THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

ONE KILLED AND SEVERAL HURT IN ACCIDENT MONDAY

The Davidson student body was somewhat saddened Monday to learn of the sudden death of John C. Bethea, which occurred in an automobile accident, in which there were several Davidson boys. The accident occurred on the Belmont-Mt. Holly road about 2 o'clock Monday morning. The driver of the car was dazzled by the spotlight of an approaching machine, and when he went to the side, the bank gave way, and the car was precipitated down the side.

Brown Hamer, former Davidson student and driver of the car, suffered a sprained shoulder and back. Ansley, a Davidson student, received a bad blow on the head, regaining consciousness at 10 o'clock Monday morning. Jimmie Groover received a few slight scratches, while Flake Laird escaped unscathed. The remains of Bethea were sent Monday to his home in Dillon where he was a teller in a bank.

Mr. Robert Tyler, of Louisville, Ky., visited Mrs. J. M. Douglas last weekend.

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

Every few hours swallow slowly a quarter of a teaspoonful of Vicks. Also melt a little in a spoon or a tin cup and inhale the vapors arising.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high-tone fellows.
991 West Trade St.

Evolution!
Frosh—Would you kindly restate that question, Professor?
Soph—I didn’t catch that.
Junior—What's that?
Senior—Huh?

There is a certain dumbbell Sophomore here who thought the Prof. was talking of him when he mentioned the “Hall of Fame.”

Songs of the Dormitories
Louisiana—"I'm going back to Louisiana.”
Rumple—"It's nice to wake up in the morning.”
Watts—"What's the matter with Father?”
Georgia—"Everything is peaches down in Georgia.”
West—"Out where the West begins.”
East—"Star of the East.”
Barracks—"Barrack Room Ballads.”

Davidson has never claimed to be the most beautiful and dignified of colleges, but it has always felt a certain pride in her campus and buildings. However, a remark made by a certain visiting damsel proves that all is not gold that glitters, etc. The young lady had set foot on the Davidson campus for the first time, and it was a dark night, with the dormitories brilliantly lighted. The car she was in drove by the row of dormitories and thence back through town. Seeing Watts, Georgia, East, and West, with their many lighted rooms, she said, “Oh, what big cotton mill is that?”

Oh! Those McMillan Boys!
Rosie—“You're looking swell, Dick.”
Dick—“Thanks, old top. Sorry I can't say the same about you.”
Rosie—“You could if you lied like I did.”

Oh, yes! Another wooden instrument that is used in physical culture and such told us the other day that he thought that he breathed only nitrogen in the night.

No, No, Nora!
There are more boys who put the “English” on their billiard balls than on their themes.

A Compromise—No college man is as good as he tries to make his professor believe he is, nor as bad as he tells his girl he is.

“What is the greatest change, When water turns to ice? Then Jack to Doctor—said, ‘The greatest change’s in price.’”

Charlie, the faithful watchdog of our college property, never overlooks anything. He was out with Mr. Light the other night about 12 o'clock.

History Repeats Itself
Professor—“How many were there?”
Student—“Two, sir, both of them were built in 1829. One ran towards the North and the other ran towards the South.”

A new phase of an age-old request:
Professor—(indicating the way out)—“Please go out THIS way, gentlemen, in order not to wake the students in the other classes.” (Note: B. Y. PITTS, news?) There are more Davidson cuted in Sing-Sing.” room, throw out my chest.” who know not such things as Modern Literature in Relation to Contemporary Life and such all the other. I should like to see in America your flapper what I hear so much of and see in the pamphlet her picture describing. The called Bob, is she pretty, beautiful? I once time knew about a beautiful damsel in the United States who one time write me and tell she have the Bob hair. Ah me, I would like to observe her once again. She were gorgeous and she always dress fine and good with the pretty clothes. Once time she ride in her automobile me and another, but had to walk home. If you can have the honorable time, transcribe unto me a letter that is lengthy. I remain your ami, Hashmingo (Togo).

She—"Oh John, please sing those paper Blues for me."
John Simpson—"Can't do it, too rough."
Sand-Wiggs B—"Did you hear about the sad Julian B—"No. What was it?"
Wiggs—"The holder of the chair of applied electricity in one of our greatest finishing schools died the other day."
Julian—"And who was he?"
Wiggs—"Oh, just a man who was electrocuted in Sing-Sing."

“Scaramouche Lindapoots” steps into the room, throw out my chest.”
Dumbells All Duke—"Aren't the stars numerous tonight?"
She—"Yes, and there are a lot of them, too, aren't there?"
Gallant Young “T. B.” (to woman leaving train)—"Madam, if I may, I'll be glad to help you off."
Young Thing (evidently bored)—"Yes, and I'll be glad to get off."
Davidson Co-ed—“There were two, Doc, and I'll be glad to get off.”
No, Fresh Simpson, Mason Field is not a famous grid-iron!
“What kinda resort is the Stagger Inn?”
“About the last resort, I think.”
Yes, Reginald (Price), Duke’s Mixture is a smoking tobacco, but it’s also another combination; two-thirds Galloway and one-third Walthall.

The letter below is from our good friend Hash Togo, who is now in Japan:

DO YOU WANT SERVICE?
Let Us Press Your Clothes
Clothes Collected Every Monday and Wednesday
Delivered Thursday and Saturday
R. C. SLOAN
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Local Agent

WASHINGTON’S BIRTHDAY IS CELEBRATED BY COLONIAL TEA

One of the leading social events of the community this season took place in the form of a Colonial Tea, given at the college gymnasium on the evening of Tuesday, February 25th. The tea was given under the auspices of the Civic Club, and much credit is due their chairman, Mrs. Moore McConnell for the success of the occasion. Mr. Hengeveld, as George Washington, and Mrs. Ellis as Martha Washington, carried their parts exceptionally well. One of the most enjoyable parts of the program was a charming minuet in which the following took part: Alice Jane Fleagle, Adele Arbuckle, Sara Withers, Lucey Martin Currie, Proctor Thompson, Sam Black, Riggs McConnell, and Billy White. Several very appropriate readings given by Prof. Dendy, were enjoyed. The old-fashioned songs, in which everyone took part, was also an enjoyable part of the program. The program was fittingly ended by the dancing of the Virginia reel. About 25 couples in costumes enjoyed the affair, which was very appropriate for the times, since two of our colonial presidents were born in that month; Washington and Jefferson. Refreshments of cake and punch were served throughout the evening.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
A variety of styles for the new season, pleasantly fresh and refreshing, will be shown by A. M. Shimmon:
DAVIDSON
MONDAY, MARCH 17
Pennants and Pillows
AND
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
TUESDAY, MARCH 18
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
CROSS CRICK CLUB
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City

JOHNSON’ College Barbers—Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms Society Halls, Etc.
Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies Stationery and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY