THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924

DAVIDSON 8 TRINITY 5

ON TO CAROLINA AND V. M. I.

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

JOHN RICHARDSON SCHENCK, ’22
Football D* Basketball D

Coming to Davidson from Clemson, John Schenck showed his ability, both on the gridiron and on the basketball floor. In the fall of 1921, he filled the positions of end and quarterback. The quality of his playing is shown by the fact that he won a berth on the all-state eleven as right end for that year. Simmons said of him: “As an offensive end Schenck stood alone.” His work at quarterback was also excellent. He acted as captain of the team during the period when Doc LaFar was out of commission. Out of the 165 points which the Wildcats scored in that season, to their opponents’ 153, Schenck was responsible for 53. In the Elon game, he ran 70 yards after a recovered fumble, thus making the longest run of any of the Wildcats for that season. He was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity and was president of the “D” Club. Johnnie, as he was familiarly known, was a worthy teammate of Doc LaFar, Spratt Moore, Rooster McFadden, and Gig Shepherd.

Mr. James Lee Sloan plans to build a bungalow on the lot adjoining the home of Mr. Roy Caldwell on Concord Street. Mr. Sloan states that work on his new home will begin within a short time.

ANNOUNCEMENT
The Old Stand Open Once Again
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Left to Right—Top Row:
Bottom Row:

1924 WILDCAT GRAPPLERS
Houck, W. G., Perry, Pitts, B. Y.
Selzer, T. M., Mgr., Patterson, N. G., Lindamood, H. H., Vance, H. L., Cox, L. P., Patterson, P. M.

Spring Football Gives Aspirants Good Workout
Coach Tilson Keeps Large Squad at Work During February and March

As the spring weather grows balmier, Coach Tilson is urging his soil-stained warriors harder and harder in the spring workout. The progressive coaching staff is, for the first time in the history of the college, holding a spring workout to drill the men in the fundamentals of football and to develop new material. On average, from 45 to 50 men have donned the pads and cleats each day. For the past week, Jupiter Pluvius has been pouring his liquid torrents from the heavens and, as a result, the ground of the freshman field where the practice has been going on has been too wet and the practice has been temporarily shifted to the cow pasture where Captain George’s cohorts have their annual tugs of war. Coach Tilson had his tonsils carved out on Friday and left the whole burden for the time being on the shoulders of Coach Younger, who got back from the basketball trip late that evening. However, when they get together, they will develop some material of which Davidson will be proud next fall. A good many of the varsity linemen are missing from spring practice on account of basketball, while others of them are making names for themselves by their work on the wrestling mats. Spring candidates numbered more than 60. They are Herrick, Hunt, Covington, Wells, Baker, Summers, Sappenfield, Potts, Lincoln, Buckner, Dick, Lewis, Anderson, Briggs, McAulay, Green, Clark, Legette, Williams, McConnell, Bohanon, Varnadoe, Pinckney, Mitchell, Wharton, Christian, Hagan, Brand, Christenbury, Womack, McAlpin, Moore, Cromartie, Curry, Covington, Miller, Crinkley, Purcell, Farrell, Calligan, Smith, Pressly, McIntosh, King, Johnston, McMillan, Hope, Thompson, Wilson, Bragaw, Crayton, Moose, O'Neal, Minter, Cooke, Buck, Lingle, Grey, Sims, Glenn, Jones, Lemly.

SIMPSON AND GREEN ASSISTANT CHEER LEADERS
Student Body Elects Two Assistants Out of Six Men Who Have Helped Allison

Last week the Wildcats elected Simpson and Green as assistant cheer leaders for the coming year. The difficulty in this election was not in finding material but in picking out the best men from the very large number of fellows that proved themselves worthy of being cheer leaders. A. F. Simpson, S. F. Bryant, J. L. Green, A. M. Martin, J. M. Carr, and J. A. Bouvier were nominated. These six men, together with the present cheer leader, O. J. Allison, have worked hard to keep up the Wildcat spirit. They have thoroughly drilled the Freshmen in the yells and showed them what real pep is. Every freshman will testify to the high quality of these men. They have been right on the job. In the first election, Simpson, Bryant, and Green were left in the running. In the final election, Simpson and Green were elected. There is sure to be plenty of pep behind the team next year if these two men show as much interest as they did this year. At every pep meeting and at every game they have been right there and have shown what they are made of. The student body could have made no better selection and is countingstrongly on these two assistant cheerleaders. A party composed of Miss Dorothy Finlayson, Miss Ellen Black, Miss Orrie Steele, and Mr. Vansant went to Charlotte last Tuesday night to hear Martinelli. Dr. J. P. Munroe, of Charlotte, visited friends in town Friday night.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat.
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

THE WILDCAT SCOREBOARD

Six Hard Meets on 1924 Wildcat Track Schedule
Captain Streibich Issues Call for Practice to Red and Black Speedsters

Captain C. M. Streibich called the first meeting of the track team on Monday afternoon for the purpose of enlisting new men and making plans for work during the next few weeks. The team will be managed this year by H. H. Lindamood and coached by Capt. M. H. Ellis. The schedule has been arranged as follows:
April 3—V. P. I. at Davidson.
April 10—N. C. State at Davidson.
April 18—Clemson at Clemson.
April 26—V. M. I. at Lexington.
April 22—W. & L. at Lexington.
May 1, 2, 3—State meet at undecided.

Mrs. Shipman and family of Brevard are visiting at the home of Mr. and Mrs. J. R. Withers.

The Dope Fiend
By W. F. Galloway

Hard luck on the Carolina trip, Wildcats. Let’s drive for the state meet. But the Wildcats frocked Trinity on the mat, and those Tarheels just rattle right along. Wake Forest and Trinity were the latest to fall. The Methodists made it a close game, however. We back Carolina in the Southern tourney. Kentucky and Mississippi A. and M. are likely runners-up. “Cristy” Matheson forgot to come up today, so we won't have much dope. The C. I. A. A. tourney is on in Macon. This is the first year they have had a separate tourney. Mercer and Chattanooga, with Centre and Furman, have about the best records. Only a few days now and the C. I. C. meet will open up in Atlanta. We notice that Chong McIlwaine has taken over the job of our former scribe, “Bailey Groom” Marshall. Chong ought to keep the Queen City flowing with the honey of eloquence for the rest of the year.

Why not erect some stands on the athletic field? September is coming.

Suggested plans for using the columns of Chambers:
1. Rollers for the athletic field.
2. Something to back up the Wildcat line with.
3. Pile ’em up and make an observatory tower. It may be possible to get high enough to see better days coming.
4. Knock 'em into suitable “dust confetti” and have a snowball fight with ’em.
5. Let the R. O. T. C. shoot at them—then use them for something else.
6. Lend them to St. Simeon Stylites. He likes to live on them.
7. Just let ’em stand for old-time’s sake. They really are cute, don’t you think?

And in the meantime, track and baseball have started out, which means that all the major sports are at work at once. That’s pretty hard on P. C. Henderson. He has to run from one to the other all the time to keep up the “pep.” They can’t get along without P. C. And in the meantime, the Princess is waiting (yes, it’s a book, not a co-ed).

PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE
see
ELKINS & PRICE
Davidsonian Office
Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

THE CAMBRIDGE
For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button.
A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

After all, it is rather a depressing one.