6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

Statistics on Location of Fraternity Chapters in Ranking Colleges Given

Doctor Lingle Gives Facts on Location of Chapters of Fraternities Represented Here

Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, professor of Modern Languages, has taken great interest in the development of fraternity life at Davidson. It is partly through his influence and work that the faculty has begun to take action on the fraternity house proposition. The following article that he has written gives, in a concise form, the facts about the placement of chapters by various fraternities represented here:

Among the questions of interest that may be asked regarding a national fraternity is the following: In what kind of institutions are its several chapters located? Each fraternity is presumably interested in having its chapters established in institutions that rank high scholastically. Among the “standardizing agencies” most widely recognized, that pass upon the scholastic standing of colleges, we can do no better than to select the Association of American Universities, and the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, note the institutions included in each list, and see to what extent each national fraternity is represented by chapters at colleges on one of these lists.

The membership of the Association of American Universities is composed of 25 leading universities of the United States, while eight more universities seem eligible to membership. Add to this number 15 high-grade schools of technology and agriculture (none in the South), which rank high scholastically, and 119 colleges, making a total of 167 institutions whose graduates are admitted unconditionally to graduate work in all the universities, and to graduate professional schools. Schools of technology and agriculture are to a large extent trade and vocational schools, serving a most valuable purpose, but seldom ranking high from the scholastic standpoint. Hence they are not numerous in this list. Among the 167 institutions just referred to are 20 exclusively for women.

The list of 167 colleges and universities, known as the “Approved List,” is the one that is used at Oxford University by the authorities in dealing with Rhodes Scholars from the United States. Those scholars who are graduates of institutions on the approved list are admitted to certain advanced standing, examinations, and privileges that are denied to our Rhodes Scholars who are not graduates of colleges on the approved list. For these and other reasons it would seem highly desirable that a large percentage of the chapters of a national fraternity should be located in colleges on the approved list.

A careful study shows the following facts regarding national fraternities having (or soon to have) chapters at Davidson College:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon has a total of 94 chapters, of which 65 (69%) are in colleges on the approved list. Kappa Sigma has a total of 92 chapters, of which 66 (72%) are in colleges on the approved list. Beta Theta Pi has 83 chapters in the United States, of which 58 (89%) are in colleges on the approved list. Phi Gamma Delta has 65 chapters, with 48 (74%) in colleges on this list. Pi Kappa Alpha has 60 chapters, with 30 (50%) in colleges on this list. Kappa Alpha has 54 chapters, with 20 (37%) in colleges on this list. Pi Kappa Phi has 24 chapters, with 12 (50%) in colleges on this list.

The United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa is the great American scholarship fraternity, with chapters located in 99 institutions, of which six are exclusively for women. The very purpose of this organization would be defeated, did it not locate its chapters exclusively in institutions that stand highest scholastically (exclusive of a few high-grade schools of technology, in which Phi Beta Kappa yields to a corresponding fraternity for men of attainments in the sciences). An astonishing observation, however, is that chapters of Phi Beta Kappa have been established in four colleges (two in New York and two in Pennsylvania) that are not on the more extensive approved list mentioned above. It seems very probable that someone has erred to this extent.

Considering this exclusive list of Phi Beta Kappa colleges, we find that of the 94 chapters of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 48 (51%) are located in Phi Beta Kappa colleges. Of the 92 chapters of Kappa Sigma, 50 (54%) are in colleges on this list. Beta Theta Pi has 83 chapters (exclusive of Canada), with 60 (71%) in colleges on this list. Phi Gamma Delta has 65 chapters, with 48 (74%) in colleges on this list. Pi Kappa Alpha has 60 chapters, with 30 (50%) in colleges on this list. Kappa Alpha has 54 chapters, with 20 (37%) in colleges on this list. Pi Kappa Phi has 24 chapters, with 12 (50%) in colleges on this list.

With these two lists of colleges before us, or any other grouping of colleges on the basis of scholastic standing, it is clear that two of the fraternities represented at Davidson have manifested a far more exclusive tendency than the others, as regards the scholastic standing of the colleges in which they locate. Very few of their chapters are located in schools of technology or in colleges that do not stand in the forefront scholastically. Three of the fraternities are very numerous in the South, where the number of high-grade colleges is still relatively small, but steadily increasing. The alumni of these three are met with frequently in all sections of this part of the country. The other two fraternities seem to be great democratic organizations, located in a great variety of institutions in all parts of the country, and numerous in every section of the United States.

After all, the authorities at Davidson College are interested primarily in the mental, moral, social, and physical development and leadership of individuals of the local groups, and that local group will always command the highest esteem, regardless of national affiliation, whose members prove themselves to be leaders on this campus, in the things for which Davidson College stands.

Jan. 5, 1923.
Thos. W. Lingle.

HOBOING FAVORITE SPORT
(Continued from page 1)
He got to that place in three days and from there back in five. One long ride netted him two hundred miles, but at times his lengthy underpinning was called on to travel miles before...A ride could be secured. He tells of interesting and weird adventures on his solitary trek through the red hills of Georgia, once sleeping in a church, thinking it was a school, and of a fitful slumber in a boxcar that looked inviting after a hard day’s ride. Forrest Franklin and Fred Smith hiked down to Franklin's home in Lithonia, Ga., and made excellent time going and coming. They left Davidson as soon as possible Thursday afternoon, December 20th, and reached Atlanta by late Saturday afternoon. These two sturdy lads carried rolled blankets purely for the psychological effect and had not a bit of trouble in getting rides that carried them over the distance in a hurry. One lonesome individual, seeking a companion, carried them from Anderson, S. C., to Atlanta, and on the return trip they were picked up by a traveling salesman and transported from Stone Mountain, Ga., to Greenville. They spent four nights on the road and lived high all the way. While at Lithonia, they hiked over to Stone Mountain and viewed the wonderful memorial that is now being carved by Gutzon Borglum, and which is destined to become the most stupendous sculptural work ever made by man. It was well worth the labor expended to walk to the top and see the colossal mound of granite being cut into in order to preserve the ideals for which the Southland fought and bled. Several less lengthy hikes were made by other fellows, radiating out from Davidson to places within a radius of a hundred miles. All of them are enthusiastic over the hiking idea which is prevalent in many colleges over the country and which is both beneficial and healthful. The men hiking found that most people are glad to give them rides if they look presentable and are willing to put themselves out for them if of a kindly nature. With the constant flow of tourists passing along the highways, it is not difficult to get rides that stretch into the hundreds of miles.

CHRISTMAS FOUND MANY PROFESSORS AT HOME

With only a few exceptions all the professors enjoyed a quiet and pleasant vacation in Davidson during the holidays. Prof. A. Currie and Dr. J. W. McConnell spent some time in Jacksonville, N. C., as guests of Dr. E. L. Cox. Both had quite a delightful time hunting ducks and quail and enjoyed some of the large Neuse River oysters. Captain George spent the holidays in Virginia and reports much more enjoyable weather than Davidson has seen during the past few days. Sergeant Ryan visited relatives in Worcester, Mass. where he had the pleasure of meeting about 200 members of the Reserve Corps there. Dr. C. R. Harding traveled North three days where he attended a meeting of the American Philological Association. From there he rode over to New York City for a sight-seeing trip of several days.

FIVE DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND KAPPA ALPHA CONVENTION

The Kappa Alpha Fraternity held its thirty-second biennial convention at Washington, D. C., December 27th through the 29th. The New Washington Hotel served as headquarters for the convention and the regular meetings were held in the Hall of Nations of this hotel. Three hundred members of the fraternity were present, representing the 54 active chapters and 38 alumni chapters. The meetings occupied much of the time of the delegates and much important legislation was passed regarding the future policies of the fraternity. It was decided to begin work at once on the campaign to raise half a million dollars for the erection of a memorial building at Richmond, Va. This building, when completed, will be unique among the fraternal shrines of the world. On the morning of December 28th the fraternity had a special audience with President Coolidge, and each member had the privilege of meeting him personally. This audience was arranged by Col. John Temple Graves, the noted lecturer. That evening a dance was given at the Washington Hotel by the Alpha Nu Chapter of George Washington University, assisted by neighboring chapters. The Hall of Nations was beautifully decorated in crimson and gold, the fraternity colors. Music was furnished by two splendid orchestras and the occasion was greatly enjoyed by the visiting brothers. The Davidson Chapter of the fraternity was represented by Charlie McCrary, the official delegate; Dr. Frazer Hood, Pat McNair, Warren and Philip Cox.

DAVIDSON QUARTET WILL BE CARRIED ON DEPUTATION

The Y. M. C. A. deputation team for the weekend of January 11-13 will visit Lexington, N. C. The deputation, which is composed of leaders in different college activities, consists of the following men: Albert Hillhouse, chairman, Jim Hendrix, and Harry Price. The Davidson College quartet will accompany the deputation and provide music at the different meetings. It is also likely that some from the quartet will speak. This quartet is composed of the following men: Ted Jones, Watt McCain, George Dupuy and Liston Elkins. On Sunday morning the deputation will visit the various Sunday Schools of Lexington. Short talks will be made at each. That afternoon it is proposed to have a theatre meeting for the entire town. In the evening the Davidson men will be with the young people’s societies. Monday morning the final meeting will be held with the students of Lexington High School. The deputation and quartet will make the trip from Davidson Saturday afternoon in cars sent over from Lexington. While in Lexington they will be the guests of the leading citizens. The return trip to Davidson will be made Monday.

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT DEBONAIR, comfortable, cases Goth purartnens dal veer from Ca Garon by exclusive use. The fort exte: to the price. DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50 AM. '? d and sold fos ose ly by NATLUXENBERG & Bros. New address 841 Broadway, N. W. Cor. 13th St. Stuyvesant New York City Our style-memo. book will be sent free, on request Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

No other shaving cream has it the value of the Williams’ Hinged Cap, we offer the following prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize each; six 5th prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate describing the Hinged Cap that can’t get lost. Can you give it to us? Perhaps you shave with Williams’ and know how gentle and soothing its quick-working lather is to the skin. Perhaps you haven't begun to use Williams’ yet. Whichever the case, we'll pay real money for your ideas. $250 in prizes For the best sentence of ten words or less on two third prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 stopping at Princeton University for sons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of erases the full amount of the prize will be awarded each, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper. Put address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper. Put address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.