THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1924

Miss Alice Jane Fleagle represented Davidson High School in the State Musical Contest conducted at N. C. C. W. last
Thursday. She was accompanied by Miss Sarah Lingle, her teacher. They returned Saturday evening.

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES ALHAMBRA THEATRE The Merriest Place in Charlotte

BRONCHITIS Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes
so vapors will be inhaled. VICKS VAPORUB Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank Charlotte, N.C. 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone
fellows 221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S College Barbers—Let Us Prove It BARBER SHOP

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Prof. (on History Class)—"What are the requirements for a good knight?” The Dude—"Darkness.”

'Twas at a wedding yesternight, A young man sat sedately. I asked him if he'd kissed the bride, He answered,
“No, not lately.”

The saddest words of tongue or pen Are these three words—"Two-timed again.”

The flapper stands before the mirror, powders her nose, rouges her lips, and says: “Well, clothes, I'm going to town.
If you want to go along, hang on.”

Christina’s lips can lure and coax; Mildred has a perfect line; But Helen laughs at all these jokes— She’s my
Valentine.

A poor light may be very dim and still have a tremendous scandal power.

They tell us that Rube Curtis is so dumb that he thinks a baby carriage is a blunderbuss. He also
thinks that celluloid is a sister to Harold.

The Court—"Hail, hail, the king approaches.” The King—"Stop hailing while I reign.”

“Get away!” said the cork to the corkscrew. “You bore me.” “Just the same,” retorted the corkscrew. “I got you
in a tight place.”

“Waiter, I came in here yesterday for a steak.” “Yes, sir, will you have the same today?” “Why, I might
as well, if no one else is using it.”

Boushee—"Say, did you see that swallow?” Keels—"See what swallow?" Boushee—"That bird.” Keels—"No, what did he swallow?"

“I'm going to the country.” “For the week-end?” “No, for heart trouble.”

Prof.—"Mr. Laird, what do you know about Hawaii?” Flake (just waking up)—"Sir?” Prof. (impatiently)—"Hawaii?”

“I'm up against a hard proposition,” said the mosquito as he lit on the professor's bald head.

Salem—"Diamonds are the hardest stones, aren't they?” Queens—"Yes, the hardest to get.”

Women are like matches—if you aren't careful with them you'll get burnt.

With only one week left in the Ugly Man's Beauty Contest, Dapper Dan Keels is still leading the field. The
voting during the past week has been heavier than before, and rivalry has become so intense that Keels has been
threatened by Nappy Davis, who is asking to be called Davidson's Ugliest Man. At present Dapper Dan has 170 votes;
Irving Johnson has 100. Skit McConnell has offered a dope free to any man who will vote for Irving, but
only a few have accepted this attempt at bribery, being honest enough to vote for Keels and Davis, believing them
to be the logical men for the honor. The contest closes next week, and the hand-embroidered pick-axe will be shown
all week in the window of the White Drug Company. Sam Summers, well-known shiek from Marion Junction, Alabama, will present
the prize to the winner.

Archie Ray (to Fresh under watertank)—"Where would you start up that tank?" Fresh Copelan—"Why, I'd start at the bottom.”

Just a Few Years Ago Mrs. Love—"Herbert, what are you doing in the pantry?” Shorty Love—"I'm just putting a few
things away.”

“That's where I shine,” said the girl as she powdered her nose.

“The wurst is yet to come,” said the dog as he hopped into the meat grinder.

She—"I wish Fate had made me a boy.” Sam Summers—"It did. I'm him.”

Prof.—"What is good brain food?" Fresh Womack—"Celery and post toasties.” Prof.—"Your answer shows the effect of celery and post toasties
as a brain food.”

Watt McCain's (weakly) song hit for this week is: “Excavating Papa, Don't You Try to Hydriotaphiate me.”

CHARLOTTE EDITOR “We are now, more than ever before, members one of another. Continents are (Continued from page 1)

“Men are interested, not so much in doubling their profits as in having the opportunity to live their own lives.
Unless some change comes about, you will not have a chance to live your free lives from mechanics.

“The second challenge is to the use of the new knowledge. What will your increased knowledge mean to you? The
challenge comes to take what you have, what you know how to do, and apply it to help the world.”

The speaker mentioned the fact that enough power could be held in the palm of the hand which, if turned
loose, would blow up New York City. “But before I want my son to have such power in his hands,
I want to know how he stands in relation to Christ. For on the relation which the young men who
are to lead our nation have to Christ, will depend the result of our civilization.

“Unless you are rightly related to the Source of all power, Him who will guide your actions aright, our civilization,
which we call blessed, will in reality be a curse to the world.

“One man came who faced humanity full-steady. He it is who must come into our lives if we are to
be saved even materially.

“The third challenge is to Christian democracy, or our right relation to our fellow-man.relations bring to bear on our intimacies
with Jesus Christ. We are members of each other, and what affects one continent affects the world. The germ of
influenza started in a little country far over the ocean and filled thousands of graves in America. “There is no
hope that our present civilization can be so throttled and harnessed for the service of humanity until we each bring
down the power, the principles, the ideals, the religion of the Man of Galilee. Only thus can our civilization be
immortal.”

C. F. Monk led the opening song service, Tom Barr led in prayer, and Wallace Purdy was pianist. Ben Wharton
read the scripture and introduced the speaker of the evening.

PRICE WINS (Continued from page 1)

It was tied again at 3-3 and the Carolina man went ahead a game with a fine burst of strength.
This was when Price showed his stuff, and, in a whirl of speed, took the next three games, winning a
great victory and the state title. Price’s single outstanding stroke was his forehand drive. He excelled everyone in the tournament
in this one department, and it was the main factor in his victory, besides his favorite chop stroke falling short
and lacking punch. Solomon’s only chance was on Price's backhand, but he did not get many opportunities. Although an easy
player, Price faced, and since then the world has never rambled.

CORRECTION

The “Who Knows” column of last week's Davidsonian states that Davidson lost the first athletic contest with Charlotte baseball team.
Instead, this should be that “although Davidson was doped to win, the final score was 3-1, Charlotte.”

Miss Ellinwood left Tuesday for New York. Her home has been rented for the year to the Formans.

HESTON PUBLISHES BOOK TO BE OFF PRESS SOON

One of the latest feats by which one can judge of the brute strength of one of the unsuspected members
of the student body was accomplished by Willie Move Heston the other day while trying to keep two would-be robbers
from absconding with his trunk key. It is stated that little Willie, in order to take vengeance upon Papa Squarehead
Regen and Spoofy Ante Meridian Hillhouse, who had taken a picture of great price (not Reg Price) from his room
and refused upon much solicitation to return it, took the accounting books of Nappy Davis, 160; Dick McMillan, 100; and
locked them in his trunk, placing the key in his left hand and defying the two of them to open
his fist. After a struggle of some eight or nine minutes, Heston still retained the key. Whereupon the would-be robbers
of the key and picture went straightway to their room and returned with the picture which they gave to Heston
and received the accounting books. Spoofy Heston is very modest about his great physical attainment. When asked to what he
attributed his great strength, he replied that it was due entirely to his daily siesta. He states further that his
book entitled "One Hour a Day" will be on sale at the Book Room next week. In this volume, he
tells of the wonderful physical development that can be gained from one hour of sleep a day, provided you go
to sleep at precisely the right moment and are not awakened suddenly. He says that better results can be obtained
by being awakened by a victrola than by a professor. “There will be just enough of these books for the
entire student body.”

Davidson, North C., May 4th, twenty-four.

Dear Paw,

Last night a fellow, the name of which is not known, climbed up the tank and painted D.C. 27 on
it. The which is the fresh class numerals. Now it ain't no tellin' who done this nefarious deed, but of
course, the fresh got cussed for doin' it whilst the chances are two to one that it warn't no freshman
at all. So I think that the scoundrel that done it ought to be cast into the wildcat's den. Here
is a little verse I wrote about it. It's free.

We have a woolly wildcat
He lives down in a den
And all the cows and chickens
Make niches in the wildcat.

Well, Paw, I got to quit and go to bed as it is now half past eight and all the
birdies have got to their downy nests. Tell Maw and Jim hello and kiss old Maude for me. Don't let
old Tazmania kick over the milk bucket.

Your most affectionately loving son,
William.

The friends of Mrs. Morrow were grieved to learn of her death last Thursday. The burial was at Center Church.
Mrs. Morrow was a member of Circle No. 1, of the Ladies’ Auxiliary.

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a l-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well. Good for teeth, breath, and digestion. Makes the next
cigar taste better. Sealed in its Purity.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
O. Building

Old Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
