4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE...........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Peanut Parcher
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor

Business Staff
Circulation Manager
Subscription Manager
Bookkeeper
Service Manager

Editorial

With the 1924 football season a matter of history, the next thing on the schedule is the Christmas holidays. Here’s
hoping Davidson men will score as many points during the ten days as the football team scored this season. In
some respects, though, it's lots harder to come out on top in the holiday game.

The Davidson debaters meet stiff opposition in Atlanta this week when they meet the strong trio from Emory University. Hollingsworth
has already been on one winning Davidson team and hopes to make it two straight in the town which his
name made famous. Wharton has also represented Davidson before and Williams was a member of the Freshman team which beat
Carolina last spring. A Senior, a Junior, and a Sophomore make up the trio.

Davidson will be represented in Georgia in another way next week when the Glee Club makes its annual fall Southern
tour. The Glee Club this year will have to travel to beat the record of last year’s club which sang
before more than twenty-five thousand people. The club lost many good musicians, but the vocal end has been reinforced by
new material, and if anything is a little better than last year.

The 1925 Quips and Cranks is sailing along under full steam again, despite the iceberg in the form of over
half a thousand dollars deficit left by last year’s business management, which almost put it out of commission at the
start of her journey. The hole in her hull has been patched up by Lake and Milhous, and a better
than the ordinary annual should be the result. The staff is to be commended on the way they met the
emergency which faced them.

After the Davidson-Emory debate, the Junior-Senior debate between the representatives of the four literary societies is the next literary event
of importance. Next Wednesday the Pandeinics meet the Metrophilians, and the Eumaneans and Philanthropics lock horns. The winners of these
two debates will meet in finals the following week. In addition to this, the preliminaries of the Senior Oratorical Contest
will be held on the sixteenth. Business is picking up before the holidays.

WILDCAT GLEE CLUB TO TOUR DIXIE

Twenty-six versatile young musicians compose the popular chorus of the Glee Club this year. They will be heard for the
first time by students on next Tuesday evening when they appear in Shearer Hall previous to their departure on their
annual southern tour through the Carolinas and Georgia. The club has played in Lenoir, Mooresville, and Statesville already this year,
and indications are that the youthful singers are in for a successful season.

The Varsity and Freshman squads are busy limbering up for the indoor pastime of basketball. Beall, Boggs, Laird, McConnell, and
Staley of last year’s quint are back in harness and prospects look bright. Oeland has made out a comprehensive schedule
for Captain Bogg’s Wildcat five, which includes a Virginia trip, a game with Georgia Tech, and games with the leading
state elevens. Coach Younger has the nucleus for another fighting Wildcat quint, and if anyone can make a team out
of them, he can.

The entire student body joins with Miss Orrie Steele in her bereavement at the death of her sister, Miss Mamie
Steele, who died at her home in Red Springs last week. Miss Steele was known to many here, who loved
her for her long and untiring work in behalf of Flora Macdonald College. She was greatly beloved there, and her
presence will be missed by those who have known her and felt her influence.

GOODBYE, FOOTBALL

The curtain has been rung down on another season of football. The grid togs have been packed away until they
will be dragged out again in the spring for early practice. Our minds turn to other things, but the memory
of this season as the year that the Wildcats came back will be long remembered. To no one thing can
the successful season be attributed as to the absolute harmony which existed between coaches and players, a harmony of teamwork
which molded the Davidson eleven into a Red and Black machine. In the words of Floyd Simmons, former Davidson coach,
“the little red electric came back.”

In the selection of mythical All-State elevens, there is one Davidson man, who because of his indomitable courage, his fighting
qualities, his gameness, and his unstoppable aggressiveness, has been mentioned on practically every selection. To Tom Baker, the lightest tackle
in the state, goes the honor of being the gamest fighter. In him, the fighting Wildcat qualities find their highest
form of expression. He is, in the words of Simmons, “a red-headed, fire-eating, wildcat.”

The Wildcats have the lightest line in the state by many pounds, but two members of the thin Red line
have been mentioned most prominently for All-State honors. Baker is one of the two; the other is Harry Vance. Vance
has the uncanny knack of breaking through the line at psychological moments and throwing the runner for a loss. He
is one of the steadiest players in the game, and for sheer plugging away, has no equal. Hendrix, Sappenfield, Davis,
Black, and McConnell are others prominently mentioned. Hendrix is one of the best broken-field runners in the state; Sappenfield has
few equals as a field general; Davis ranks high among the ends; Black is one of the most dependable fullbacks
who ever bucked a line; McConnell is the most accurate passing center in the state.

But after all, the teamwork brought the results, and to the fighting Red and Black machine of 1924 goes the
honor of putting Davidson back on the map in Carolina football circles.

Open Forum
Chaff
(This department is conducted...)by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire
to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the
Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express
themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication,
if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian
by 7:00 p.m. Monday.

DO DAVIDSON STUDENTS PLAY FAIR?

The above question could be changed to: Will men return good for good? This has been a question much debated
and answered by some in the affirmative. Personally, I have found most men to respond in a fair way if
treated squarely. If somebody seems to be doing wrong, test your own self and see if something is not wrong
with you. Get the plank out of your own eye and then you can see how to get the speck
out of somebody else’s eye. I think they indeed are. But are Davidson students fair? They are the fairest group
of men anywhere. They go further than being fair, by contending with practically worthless things which other student bodies would
not tolerate for a minute. We talk about the disfavor among students with meetings they are either compelled to attend
or else go to of their own free will and harshly criticize the poor students. Let us look at ourselves
and see if there is not something wrong with us. It takes real Stoicism to sit through some of our
meetings! Are we really giving men something when they come to the meetings, or are simply words thrown out from
the mouth of an inefficient speaker, disgusting the hearer with things he once held sacred? The students have been criticized
for their lack of courtesy and justly, but are they wholly to blame? Can we justly and wholly condemn men
for complaining about having to go to certain meetings or failing to go to those they are not compelled to
attend? Let us just try once and see if men won’t respond when given real solutions to their needs instead
of worn-out dogmas and over-used phrases lacking in meaning. The poor students are criticized for going to Charlotte or some
other place and “raising cain.” Someone will get up and exhort us just before the Christmas holidays to be real
Davidson men while we are away. Has Davidson such a low ideal that men are not always the same under
all conditions? What else can be expected when they have to sit around with folded hands or else content themselves
with reading? Cannot some sensible, clean entertainment be allowed that will counteract the numerous “petting parties” so prevalent on the
campus? How about the heads of the organizations working on themselves a little and then see how the members of
the student body come around. I will prophesy packed houses. According to the “Chesterfield” ad such popularity must be deserved!
Of course, there are some men that would not come to meetings if dollar bills were served for refreshments; they
are so nearsighted. Anyway, please give us a chance to show you what we will do.

T. C. BARR.

ANNOUNCEMENT

For the best letter on “How to Get a Head” in college, this magazine will pay the princely sum of
three bales of Russian rubles, or 37 cents. Only bona-fide students are permitted to enter this great contest. The judges
will be Stanislaus Zybezscno, Jack Dempsey, and Eddie Polo. Do your Christmas Shopping Early.

The American Magazine

HOW GREAT MEN GET AHEAD

P. Aloystus McGlook was born back in the far hills of Georgia where the light of progress never shines. Even
as a lad he displayed many of the characteristics which were to distinguish his later life. The marks of success
were branded upon him early in life. Most of the marks were around his neck and ears where the noble
wash-rag shirks its duty. McGlook was country-bred at heart, but he yearned for the tinsel and the bright lights of
the Big City. He lived so far back that he thought Eddie Polo was a game and that face paint
was used by aged spinsters. His section of the country has always been a little slow; they arrested a man
down there just a few weeks back on the charge of being a Yankee spy. But be that as it
may, P. Aloystus was astute and high-minded. He had a right to be as his illustrious father, Caleb Otey McGlook,
who had held the office of deputy constable for two terms, was so high-minded that he used headache pills to
cure his corns. P. Aloystus was somewhat disappointed that Mr. Hylan did not come down to meet him when he
reached New Amsterdam. He had always heard that the people up there were so friendly, too. But right away he
looked for a gold brick to buy or something by which he could make a big haul and retire to
the sticks, a rich and opulent plutocrat. His first venture was in the oil business. He tried the customary lines
of cylinder, olive, castor, hair, and cod-liver oil, but his fingers became slippery in the attempt and he lost the
few piasters that he otherwise might have accumulated. But such a dauntless and persevering character as Mr. McGlook was not
to be foundered by such trifles. He took a mail order course on astronomy and found a vaudeville star, who
overlooking his homely freckled map and his snaggled molar organs, married him for love and love alone. She found little
else. The staunch and faithful personality of Aloystus had not the moral courage to divorce his wife, so she divorced
him by their mutual consent. He dabbled in stocks and bonds, at which he found himself only fairly successful. A
venture in the manufacture of non-skid sock supporters for college men, brought him only enough jack to pay the ninth
installment of his last year’s buzz cart. He was thoroughly despondent. One day he met his former spouse on the
street and they had a number of cross words. An idea immediately popped into the emptiness of his cranial territory.
Rushing to his domicile, he fervidly set himself about the completion of his coup d’etat. The next day, a new
variety of cross-word puzzles came into existence, and the fortune of P. Aloystus McGlook was assured.

SIMPLE SAM’S SOB STORY

Sam Summers sizzled savory sausages strenuously so Saturday should see Sammy’s simoleon supply safe. Sam saved scrupulously—so soft seemed Sammy’s
situation, Sam sported splendiferous socks. Sylph-like Sylvia scanned Sam’s strongbox, sporty socks, sturdy Strongfort system. She saw some sense set
sidewise Sammy’s stocky summit. Sylvia’s slushy sobbing secures Sam’s satisfaction, simple Sammy succumbs so sweetly. She steals Sammy’s savings. Sylvia
slips safely, singing sundry slapstick stuff. Sam sets strong steps—no sign sylph-like Sylvia sees Sammy. Stalwart Sammy sobs.
