THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

BEAT CAROLINA CAGERS | BACK YOUNGER’S FIVE

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

Clifford Rankin Crawford

Clifford Rankin Crawford, known to many of the present student body as “Pat,” graduated from Davidson with the class of
1923, having made a record of which any man would be truly proud, a record which reflects upon Pat his
ability as an athlete and his accomplishments as a social factor, as well as the respect in which he was
held by the student body. From the very beginning, it was recognized that Pat was destined to be a leader
in student activities, and to attain honor in an athletic way. In his Freshman year, he made his letter in
baseball, playing an outfield position. The next year, he was shifted to the initial sack, and there he remained until
his graduation, making three stars for the remaining years. Pat was indeed at home on first, and handled everything that
came within his reach, and many throws seemed out of his reach. At the plate, he was a good wielder
of the bat, and when final averages were compiled, he was found among the first. As a recognition of his
worth, he was chosen as an All-State man in 1922, a distinct honor, and in his Senior year, piloted the
Wildcats through the season as captain. He has been signed up by the (Continued on page 6)

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL

Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You'll see many of them; but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have
it.

Tate-Brown Co. CHARLOTTE - BROWN & McCLAIN Local Agents

Wildcat Quint Faces Veteran Team Saturday

Carolina Has Team of Experienced Stars That Will Give Red and Black Trouble

The Davidson Wildcats will line up Saturday night against the North Carolina five in Charlotte on the Auditorium floor. The
D. C. quint goes up against a veteran team as fast as any in the state and the resulting game
will be a real battle. Preparations for a record crowd have been made as fans from all over this section
will turn out to see these teams come together for the first time since 1920. Carolina was Southern champion in
1922 and missed repeating last year by the loss of only two games. She has started things with a bang
this season and has already chalked up several wins to her credit. Mercer succumbed to the tune of 35-23 and
the Durham B. P. O. E. fared no better with a 33-20 loss. Against the strong “Y” team of Charlotte,
Carolina nosed out victors by the slim margin of one goal. This 31-29 win gives the dopesters their only line
on comparative scores, D. C. having lost to the Triangles by the score of 26-20.

Captain Winston Green, at forward, leads the men that will tangle with the Red and Black Poison Squad. He has
been showing his usual consistent stuff. Jack Cobb, captain of last year’s Fresh team, pairs with Green in the fore-court.
The report has it that he is delivering the goods. Cartwright Carmichael, at center, is playing up as a former
captain should. His beautiful floor work will cause the Wildcats as much trouble as anything new that the Tar Heels
may uncork. Bill Dodder, guard, has developed, along with Monk McDonald, a defensive game that will bring out the old
Wildcat fight in Staley and Flake Laird. Monk, another former captain, impresses the wise guys as being as good if
not better than ever. His strength rounds out a five that would look mean to any club in the country.

A section for the Davidson students and alumni is being reserved by Manager Johnnie Smith. He is also arranging for
students’ tickets at a reduced price. The D. C. student body plans to take in the contest Saturday night “en
masse.” The first and without doubt one of the hardest games will find the Davidson five backed by a whooping
big gang from the Wildcat lair. The students of Davidson want the team to know that they are behind the
basketeers to a man and are going to show it by their attendance. If the Southern doesn’t have a strike,
or if the bus company doesn’t shut down, or if five hundred pairs of strong legs don't go weak, the
Red and Black section of the Auditorium will be jammed with a wild, wild bunch of wild Wildcat rooters.

Wildcat Grapplers Show Form as Season Nears

Eliminations of Present Week Will Round Out Squad of Captain Weem’s Boys

All advance dope on wrestling points to the most successful season in this particular sport of Davidson. The competitive try-outs
which are being held this week will develop the first squad which is to receive special training in anticipation of
the meet with Carolina on the 9th of February. Under the tutelage of Captain Weems, former star matman of the
Army, the squad of grapplers have developed a thorough working knowledge of the scientific side of the game, which receives
too little consideration at times. The first streak of bad luck happened Monday afternoon when Lindamood's bear-like hug proved too
much for one of Norman Patterson's ribs, and that particular article collapsed under the strain. It is hoped by the
entire student body that this member of last year’s team and one of the best contenders for this year’s honors,
will be in form to start off with the bunch that will face Carolina. The series of eliminations will start
with the lower classes which are more crowded than the heavyweight divisions. While there have not been any predictions as
yet con- (Continued on page 8)

By W. F. Galloway and Christie Matheson

Drive, Wildcats, drive; Frock Carolina Saturday. It will be D. C.-N. C. on the court for the first time since
1920. Let's all turn out. Lucky long shots beat us at Charlotte. The gangplayed a fine game. Our Captain Pat
was on the sidelines. He said things didn’t look so bad for a fine season. Johnny Schenck made a basket
for Charlotte. Johnny used to shoot ’em for the Wildcats. Carolina vs. Davidson, Saturday. Will YOU be there? Remember that
14-3 game at Chapel Hill. Carolina has a great team, but Wildcat fight can do it. Will YOU be there
to back ‘em? Georgia licked South Carolina 39-28, and Furman 34-20, while Clemson fell by a still bigger score. Ga.
Tech beat Clemson but Furman frocked them 42-36. Tech beat Auburn, though. Tech will win the Southern championship, though. Their
defeats were on bad nights. Just ask the Atlanta Journal and the Constitution. Spring is coming. Sapp’s rising. Watch those
shots, team. It could have been 80 in that Concord affair. Mercer was going strong—but Trinity 29, Mercer 25, and
Carolina 35, Mercer 23. Mercer beat Chattanooga 37-22 when they got home. Chattanooga was runner-up in the Southern tourney last
year. Mexico City “Y” is making a tour of the country. Fresh Austin saw them lick Houston and says they
look pretty good. They play in Charlotte pretty soon. Somebody said any one of the class teams before Xmas could
have beat Concord by 40 points. Maybe.

Coach Rawson Develops History-Making Squad
Yearling Team is Best Ever Turned Out Under Red and Black

When the Wildkittens romped away with Greensboro Hi last Friday night to the tune of 64 to 18, Davidson awoke
to a realization of the fact that she has a bang-up Freshman quintet. With only three practices, Coach Rawson has
perfected a machine which for the starting season with a stellar brand of ball. Quick and heady at dribbling and
pass work, accurate at looping the basket, these forwards look like varsity material. Sapp and Simpson, at guards, present a
formidable defense. The excellent work of Sapp and Hewlett in the Concord “Y” game on Saturday night shows that only
Freshmen intercollegiate regulations are holding these men off the varsity squad. Hudgin, at center, plays an aggressive game, imitating the
style of “Warhoss” Mauze, of Wildcat fame, in diving across the court after the elusive sphere. On the second team,
a number of Freshmen—McConnell, Bohannon, Beall, and Hunter—are looking well at forwards; Christian and Fawcette at the pivot position; and
Allan, Winn, and Kiser, at guards. This team beat Cornelius Hi on Friday night as a sequel to the Greensboro
game. At the opening of the season, five or six teams of first-year men appeared in the suction-soled shoes, and
Coach Rawson has his hands full. In order to better care for all these aspirants to positions on the first
five, two periods of practice will be held daily for Freshmen—the second squad in the afternoon, following varsity practice; the
first squad at night. Out of this work, more varsity material will no doubt be developed for succeeding years. Owing
to a recent faculty regulation concerning Freshman games, the schedule for this season has not been completed. One game has
been definitely scheduled, however, for February 4th, when the Trinity Fresh will invade Wildkitten territory. Later in the season, a
trip of several days is proposed, to meet Oak Ridge Academy, Trinity Fresh, Asheville High, and possibly Carolina Freshmen. Several
games will be played with nearby high schools—Charlotte, Mooresville, Statesville, Salisbury, and others. A full season is planned for the
Fresh cagers, the best Freshman team Davidson has had in years. Two games in a night for the Fresh. That's
not bad. Some lad—we suppose he is from Greensboro—says that they are going to win the State championship. Well, they
did beat Mooresville. Better watch Tripp, Thursday night. Somebody might trip up yet. Hey, wot? We make a motion that
we turn Tripp over to Sook Boggs. Any second? Hippo the Houck is going out for the mat sport. Did
you hear Rev. Smith speak of Hippo’s tough hide? Hippo says wrestling is a little more strenuous than climbing the
front of West. Somebody gave him the toothache last week. Count ‘em up, boys—forty—forty-nine. Ten—twenty—thirty. Bailey Groome notes that “climate”
is now spelled “$10,000.” Howard Jones left Iowa because of the climate. Tell us another one, Baron Gunchaser. We wish
we was Bailey Groome. We could say bright things like that. And don't forget—be at Charlotte, Saturday. But, boys, be
back before midnight. No traveling on Sunday. N. C. State beat Camp Bragg 51-26. That was a little revenge for
the holiday defeat.

At forwards, Hewlett and Anderson are some fun. We back our football team—Nappy and Flake, and Sook and Sapp, and
Hewlett and Sappenfield. Too bad, “T.F.”—it’s a fine game. We thought that was bad enough—but Joe Garrison said Covington beat
Decatur 70-0. Didn’t somebody say Flake Laird was from Decatur? Covington had a man that could lay down in center
and toss 9 out of 10. Smooth running, fast teamwork, and accurate shooting can put many a college varsity in
the shade. “Trinity Freshmen Win.” Oh, really! We nominate Joe Garrison to succeed George Washington. He never told a lie,
either. And then “Duke” Walthall up and says that Waynesboro H. S. girls beat somebody 135-6. What a fast bunch
of girls for a little village like that. And then we looked in the paper and saw the Boys’ Club
of Richmond beat the Lynchburg Five 150-7. They claim that’s a record. We wonder where Wallace Moore learned to play
basketball. Perhaps he took a correspondence course. “Mac” Beall played a fast game last Saturday. Keep it up, “Mac.” Here
are the State games so far: Trinity, 31; Norfolk Epworth League, 28. Trinity, 36; Richmond Blues, 33. Trinity, 29; Mercer,
25. Trinity, 43; Durham Elks, 36. U.N.C., 31; Charlotte “Y,” 29. U.N.C., 33; Durham Elks, 20. U.N.C., 35; Mercer, 23.
N.C. State lost to Fort Bragg. N.C. State lost to Durham Elks. N.C. State, 17; Mercer, 39. N.C. State, 51;
Fort Bragg, 26. Elon, 20; Newberry, 28. Elon, 34; Greensboro “Y,” 17. Wake Forest, 53; Fort Bragg, 28. Guilford—not heard
from.

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE
ELKINS & PRICE
Davidsonian Office
Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers
