THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

I can furnish you with complete Radio Sets and Parts
Radiola and other Reliable Sets
Complete outfits installed on short notice
Work guaranteed
$29.50 to $500.00
F. J. BENDER
E. CENTER AVE.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

“Nothing’s too good for my boy!”
What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything college men wear--real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring, English and American fabrics--coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats--rainproof. Soft hats, caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate.
MELLON’S

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT —
Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

College Work On Campus Gradually Takes Shape
Out-Door Gym Moved—Begin Placing Permanent Walks

Improvements on the campus are now under way and progressing fast. The well is being re-covered, and a new concrete base laid for the pillars of the roof. All the woodwork around the well will be repainted. The walk around Shearer will be finished. The walk leading north from the chapel will connect with the gate the seniors will give to the college. This gate will be completed before commencement. The drive from the road through the gate will be paved. The out-door gym that used to stand just south of the Chambers building will be erected just to the southwest of the gymnasium. A wall made of old Chambers rocks will be erected in front of the gymnasium. This wall will be on line with the concrete steps that now lead down to the gym. During the summer other improvements and changes are planned.

Fire escapes will be erected on the Armory, Georgia, Chemical building and Temporary building. The upstairs of the Armory, now used as the Biology laboratory, will be remodeled. Classrooms for the R. O. T. C. department will be made. These new classrooms will be a great help to the R. O. T. C. instructors. The Biology laboratory will be moved to Temporary building.

The rock wall along the front of the campus will be finished. This wall will be made of old Chambers rock. It is to be a retaining wall and will be about a foot or two feet in height.

The inside of the chapel will be painted a light color during the summer. A permanent walk is to be placed along Dormitory Row. This walk will be gravel, and will run directly in front of the buildings, between them and the present driveway.

TRAWICK AND PARKER DIRECT THE POLITY CLUB

The most important feature of the recent meeting of the Polity Club was the election of officers for next year. As president of this organization, M. W. Trawick was chosen, while J. R. Gudger will be the new vice-president. Roland Parker was elected secretary-treasurer to succeed H. M. White.

Under the leadership of the retiring president, J. H. Davis and Lee McLean retiring vice-president, the Polity Club has made much progress during the past session. A number of prominent speakers have been secured by them, and in various ways the year’s work has been a marked success for this group of young men. Much credit is due every member for the efficiency they have shown this year. Dr. Lingle, the speaker of Friday night, in commenting on this fact, stated that this was perhaps the most active international relations club in the South. Extensive plans have been made for the coming year. The organization has pledged more active co-operation with the college bureau on public lectures. Many interesting speakers will be on the hill next year, as a result of the efforts of this club. Professor Jackson, head of the history department at N. C. C. W., is listed among the first of those who will give lectures here.

SWIMMING

Literary Societies

Philanthropic
Due to the heavy rain storm, very few members attended the meeting. A very brief meeting was held in Dr. Lingle’s classroom. Since there was no business to be brought up and there were too few members present to follow the regular program, the society adjourned in a very short time.

Pandemic
The query for debate at the last regular meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society was, Resolved: That the State of North Carolina should abolish the death penalty. L. L. Deck and E. K. Regen argued the affirmative to a two to one decision over L. L. Beall and F. E. Hudgins, who composed the negative team. The discussion was lively which indicates that the speakers had made some excellent preparation beforehand. After the main debate the question of awarding an essay medalwas brought up. It was decided that if at least ten men turned in essays, that would be a sufficient number to justify the presenting of a medal.

Metrophilian

After the devotional exercises had been conducted by A. C. Ray, the society considered the popular question “That North Carolina should abolish capital punishment.” The question brought forth much spirited discussion on both sides, interest being so great that time had to be called before several could talk on it. The hall voted against the bill. With no other business that could be undertaken, the society adjourned.

CLASS OF ’21 TURNS TO DAVIDSON
(Continued from page 7)

J. P. Story, Chapel Hill, N. C.
Joe has been studying law at Carolina.

J. R. Walker, Davidson, N. C.
Joe will receive his M.A. at Davidson this June.

K. B. McCutcheon, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.
“K. B.” has been attending the Seminary this year.

W. P. Nesbit, Piedmont, S. C.
Willy P. took his M.A. at Davidson in '22. He now has a position in the Barium Springs Orphanage.

C. N. Morrison, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Morrison has been studying for the ministry this year.

We did not receive replies from any of the following, but this is about the best dope on them that we have been able to collect:

E. M. Alexander, Belzoni, Miss.
Alec was married to Miss Alice Raynor, of Lexington, Miss., last year. He is connected with the Staple Cotton Cooperative Association at Belzoni.

N. P. Baba, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
Baba was studying medicine at Yale the last we heard.

J. G. Barnette, Davidson, N.C.

OPENS TONIGHT!
STEWART PARK POOL AND SKATING RINK
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
COME AND BRING YOUR FRIENDS
“DAVIDSON MEN WELCOME”

C. K. Brown, Davidson, N. C.
J. R. Boulware, Greenbrier Military School, Lewisburg, W. Va.
Jim is teaching Math at Greenbrier. C. K. is teaching Math at Davidson College.

S. A. Burgess, Oklahoma City, Okla.
Sam was cashier for an insurance company a year or so ago.

A. L. Currie, Louisville Seminary, Louisville, Ky.
Buck has been attending the Seminary and singing in the quartet.

W. C. Gaither, Newton, N. C.
According to recent dispatches in the Davidsonian, Cicero is in the hosiery mill business.

J. M. Gaston, Lowell, N. C.
John is a planter at Lowell. He was married in the past year.

M. B. Heiser, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Heiser is attending the Seminary.

C. G. and F. V. Long, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Chal and Flynn are both attending the Seminary. Flynn graduates this year and has accepted a church at Shreveport, Louisiana.

ARCHIE REEVES SHATTERS
(Continued from page 2)

Tee-ed off with a 275-yard drive, his approaching wavered and he had to make a 35-foot putt to sink the ball for a four on the course’s longest hole. On the seventh, his drive was again especially long; a three was made here. The course is harder now than when Woodrow Clark, ’18, made his record 35, and when Johnny Bachman last December made his 33. The fourth hole has been changed and made longer.

But ever since his arrival at Davidson last fall, Archie has been hammering away for a record. Several times he has come within one stroke of tying up with Johnny. He made the team on the first trip last September and went to Atlanta in the Southern tournament. His record-breaking play was won by constant work on the links. Archie Reeves is from Selma, Ala., and with three more years of golfing ahead of him, promises to develop greatly.

Score by holes: 4, 4, 3, 3, 4, 3, 3, 4, 4.

Will whoever borrowed a tennis racquet from 3 South Barracks during Easter week please return same?—A. C. Wildman.

Get one before you leave school: “The LIFE OF WOODROW WILSON” By Josephus Daniels
See J. D. Laws, 204 Watts

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes”
For Men - Footwear that is Stylish, Serviceable, Comfortable
Complete Stocks For Young Men
GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte P. M. M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

TAILORED AT FASHION PARK

This progressive age constantly discovers a better way of doing things—always improves—develops processes that excel. Our tailors at Fashion Park, for instance, have developed the Turole tailoring treatment—a method of making “soft” clothing possessing all the fine lines that well-groomed men demand.

EFIRD'S

Turole is pliant—has easy, comfortable lines—conforms to the wearer’s action or inaction—is thoroughly distinguished. The Turole tailoring treatment is available in a series of interesting style developments—we’re making a special exhibit of them now.