THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

NEWS Here and There

'02—Rev. W. E. Furr has accepted the pastorate of a group of churches in Lincoln County, N.C.

'03—Rev. H. A. Knox is now pastor of the Liberty and Pickens, S.C., group of churches.

'07—Rev. J. Edwin Hemphill, Presbyterial evangelist for Atlanta Presbytery, 81 East Park Lane, Atlanta, announces that he has accepted a
call to the Tabb Street Church, Petersburg, Va.

'07—Rev. W. H. Hamilton resigned as pastor of the Seneca Presbyterian Church and was received into the Pee Dee Presbytery.

'10—Rev. H. C. Carmichael has recently moved from Unionville to Cleveland, N.C.

'11—James Allen Jr., Charleston, S.C., has been recently appointed District Solicitor.

'15—Rev. D. C. Young has changed his address from Knoxville to Rt. 6, Box 207, Memphis, Tenn.

'17—H. A. Campbell was married to Miss Mary Harris, of Fayetteville, N.C., December 18, 1923. They will make their home
in Aberdeen, N.C. Frances Dan McKeithen, '17, was best man.

'19—Rev. Coyte Hunter was married to Miss Edna May Davis, of Richmond, Va., on January 2, 1924.

'19—Rev. C. F. Allen was recently installed as pastor of the Jefferson group of churches at Jefferson, Ga. Mr. Allen
has been doing fine work in the home mission field of Atlanta Presbytery for the past few years, and his
friends wish for him much success in his new field.

'20—Samuel H. Askew was married to Miss Mabel Owens, in Rome, Ga., on December 20, 1923. They will make their
home in Rome, where Mr. Askew ("Pap") is a professor in Darlington School.

'23—Bob McLeod, now a student at Louisville Theological Seminary, will sail February 1st with Dr. J. G. McAllister of the
seminary faculty for a Mediterranean cruise and visit to Egypt and Palestine.

Rev. E. M. Munroe, D.D.

The news of the death of Rev. E. M. Munroe, an old Davidson man of '73, will sadden the hearts
of his fellow alumni. He died December 12, 1923, at his home in Milford, Tex. Dr. Munroe was born in
Montgomery County, N.C., May 16, 1850. Besides being a graduate of Davidson College, he finished at Union Seminary, of Virginia,
and began his long period of service in the pastorate of Mt. Holly and Camden, Ark., in the year 1878.
From that time he was engaged in the active ministry of the Gospel for a total of 46 years. Failing
strength forced him to retire, in 1920, to his home at Milford, where the last of his years of service
were spent. His two older brothers, Rev. C. A. Munroe, '72, deceased, and Rev. Dugald Munroe, '72, of Red Springs,
N.C., were fellow workers with him in the Gospel ministry. His younger brother, Dr. J. P. Munroe, '82, is an
elder in the First Presbyterian Church, of Charlotte, N.C. He is survived by three sons, Rev. E. M. Munroe, Jr.,
'08, W. E. Munroe, and Dr. R. M. Munroe. Three daughters survive him; one the wife of Rev. T. L.
Green, the others being Miss Margaret Munroe and Miss Juannette Munroe. Wherever Dr. Munroe ministered, his people were affectionately devoted
to him. He preached the Gospel with earnestness, constancy, faithfulness, and intelligence. He, truly, was deserving of his heavenly award.

The Davidsonian is glad to publish this picture of the baseball team of 1902, the personnel of which is as
follows: Lynch, S.; Wilcox, C.; Young, D.; Gratienried, Bailey, J.; Smith, W. L.; Kirkpatrick; Fitzpatrick; Woyman. Exact scores for the
1902 season are not available, but from the athletic notes of the magazine for May, 1902, mention is made that
games were won over University of Georgia, Wofford, Bingham, and N.C. State, and lost to Trinity, Clemson, and Virginia.

AS YOU WERE

There is no such animal BUT--- the man who has completed our Agents Training School Course feels like one AND---
he can make other people think he’s one by the way he gets results. If interested write to us---

SOUTHERN LIFE AND TRUST CO. Greensboro, N.C. A. W. McALISTER, Pres. H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

A contract was let on January 7th, to the Electric Construction Co., of Charlotte, to complete...the eight-inch well and sink
one or more wells, twelve inches in diameter.

WILDCAT GLEE CLUB SINGS BEFORE A 2,500 AUDIENCE
(Continued from page 1)

day corps of workers and the entire audience. Both Queens and Davidson gave lusty cheers for Mr. Sunday. The Davidson
delegation was carried to Charlotte by special arrangement with a Charlotte transfer company in closed cars, and the return was
made immediately following the service. Reserved seats were arranged through the efforts of the local Y. M. C. A. in
order that the Davidson men might be in a compact body. Queens was seated across the aisle from the Davidsonians.
The Charlotte committee in charge of the Billy Sunday meetings has expressed a desire for the Davidson men to attend
as many services as possible, and local "Y" workers have arranged daily bus service for those men who wish to
hear the famous evangelist.

The Senior Christian Endeavor had many new members present at its last meeting, on Sunday afternoon, January 13th. On account
of lack of heat in the basement, the meeting was held in the main body of the church. Several college
boys have been appointed to work with these young people and help them in any way that they can. The
program for the evening was in charge of the college boys, as no regular program has been held as yet.
Several spoke on “What Christian Endeavor Has Done For Me,” while one young man gave a talk on the value
of prayer, and then led the members in sentence prayers. Dr. Richards challenged the young people to get to work,
and was much pleased with the increased attendance, but said that there were others yet who should come.

Mrs. W. H. Wooten will entertain Circle No. 2 of the Woman's Auxiliary at her home Tuesday afternoon. The entertainment
of the afternoon will be in the form of a Japanese Tea. Costumes will be worn by the members of
the circle. Several guests from Mooresville will be present, and among them will be Mrs. Wood Johnston and Mrs. Turlington.

Lost and Found
Found—One watch fob. Two keys on red string. Owners may get same from Mrs. W. H. Wooten.
Lost—One “Essentials of German,” by Vos. Finder please return to K. S. McAlpine, 108 West.
Lost—Gabardine coat; name on inside pocket. Removed from room during breakfast hour Sunday morning. Please return to J. DeArmond, 114
East.

MINISTERIAL BAND PLANS CONTEST FOR DEVELOPMENT
The Ministerial Band held an important meeting on Sunday, January 6th, for the election of officers. The following men were
elected: President, J. L. McLean; Vice-President, P. B. Freeland; Secretary, J. M. Garrison. These officers are to be installed January
10th. Following the election of officers, J. L. McLean gave the treasurer’s report. A feed was suggested for the band
and was immediately agreed upon. After a short discussion as to the time, Saturday night, January 12th, was selected.

When asked by the president for a report of the men who made deputations while home or elsewhere during the
holidays, 12 men said that they had conducted some kind of religious deputation. A. M. Martin, who is in charge
of the deputation committee, suggested a deputation talk contest of written deputation talks as an incentive for members of the
band to take more interest in this kind of work. The talks are to be similar to essay contests and
the best paper will be printed in the Charlotte Observer. The suggestion met with the approval of the entire band
and plans were suggested for prizes. As no definite conclusion could be reached as to the nature of the prize,
a committee was appointed by the president consisting of Martin, as chairman, Moffett, and McPhaul, to develop the contest.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

We are specially prepared to analyze and take care of your INSURANCE NEEDS
A consultation with us might SAVE YOU SEVERE LOSSES
McALISTER CARSON, Manager
Insurance Department
Independence Trust Company
Phone 3940
