8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924

The University of Florida has had their campus and buildings filmed as an advertisement of the university. This film also
shows every phase of college life and the growth of the school and will be distributed to country clubs as
well as some of the theaters in the state. —Florida Alligator.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU'LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone

Brown’s
We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Saturday morning found an entirely different campus at Davidson—very different from the one that was viewed by students on the
preceding Friday night. The whole campus, from golf course to Main street, was decorated with long white streamers which were
suspended from trees, telephone buildings, and the tank. The sight that was visiting the campus during the morning was the
floating in the breeze, giving an indescribable effect to the beauty which can only be appreciated by a college Sophomore.
As one walked from his room to town, his eye reached as far as he could see, streamers set in
the breeze.

When the Main street sign confronted the adventurer, telling him that the proverbial “Main Street” had been christened “Wall Street,”
and that the commonly known to all residents and inmates of Jaybirdsville as “Depot Street” had been renamed “Fifth Avenue.”
Skit’s place of loafing had been visited, and a suitable sign had been placed over his domain. The new name
of Mr. Shield’s store is “Dinty Moore's,” and he requests that all lovers of corned-beef and cabbage see him at
once, so that he may ascertain the wisdom of opening a first-class hash-joint.

The post-office experienced either a hearty laugh or a wan smile when they read the sign which had been placed
there while the whole campus was in slumber the night before. “Rest Room. Dead Letter Office.” Only those who had
to stand in line three hours and a half each time they wanted to see if they had a letter
will appreciate the above inscription. Everyone who visited Gamble’s for the first six weeks of school experienced a great surprise.

To the great surprise of about 25 members of the student body, the chapel appeared as though it had not
been touched. Some of the men could hardly believe their eyes when they rubbed those sore places on their shoulders,
which reminded them that they had spent several hours’ hard work in building that solid tile wall with real mortar
the night before, and that it had vanished as though some fairy had touched it with her wand.

If it had not been for the janitors, several of the professors would have sworn that they had come to
a stock-yard instead of their classroom on that eventful morning, for several of the men had scoured the neighborhood for
cows and rams, and had even gone to the trouble to put hay on the classroom floors to keep the
poor dumb brutes from getting homesick. Axle-grease, lard, and neatsfoot oil were used in large quantities on all blackboards in
hopes that certain members of the faculty would be unable to give a written lesson the next day, and to
the great surprise of the students, one professor read out his questions to the class, only to be disturbed by
the sounding off of a Sears and Roebuck alarm clock as he was about half through with his torture test.
The old buggy stage in chapel had entirely disappeared, together with Spark Plug, its faithful predecessor. This vehicle may be
found behind Phi Hall, and some genius who does not mind using his head for something else than to keep
his spinal column from unravelling might use it in getting rides to Charlotte by getting a running start with it
and then catching hold of a Queen City-bound Ford, tying said horseless carriage to the rear bumper.

TOLLIE THOMPSON SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

The students were urged to make a more concerted fight against temptations that arise and to look to God for
strength. The quartet from Union Theological Seminary gave several selections. Tuesday night the three upper classes had charge of the
attendance during the three nights of the recent “Y” services. Tuesday night 378 men came out to hear Dr. Thompson
speak on the subject “Mutual Fellowship.” After the quartet had sung “I Know the Lord Has Laid His Hands On
Me,” Dr. Thompson read Matthew's description of “Christ in the Garden” and continued his discussion of friendship with Christ by
saying what he has done for us, but also because of what we can do for him. He said, “Christ
took the disciples into the garden with Him because He needed them. I couldn't use Jesus if I meant nothing
to Him.” The big message of the evening pointed to a deepened friendship with Christ through a mutual service. Christ
seemed to say to His disciples, when the approaching crucifixion caused the uncertain, half-curious followers, the crowd, to fall away,
“Surely men, you're not going to leave me, I need you.” In the garden, He says, “I need to think
that you are here with me.” And then, “What, could you not help me one hour?”

To the question, “Can I do anything for Christ?” comes the answer, “Ye are my witnesses, I depend on you.”
Dr. Thompson said that was a challenge to every Christian to help complete the work of Christ. Christ's suffering is
a complete work only as we serve Him. Paul said, “I suffer for Him.” The challenge as set forth by
Dr. Thompson was, “Come and suffer if we love Him.”The corrected OCR text is as follows:

---

was sounded against condemning ourselves too harshly if we didn't always feel at the height of surging joy in our
love for Christ. “Do not look in your heart for love,” said the speaker, “for then you take yourself off
the object. Just look at Him if you want to find that you love Him.” Finally, Christ calls for ourselves
because of what He is Himself, has done for us, and because of what we can do for Him. If
we would have the fullest fellowship with Christ we must seek it through mutual service, mutual love.

Wednesday Morning devotional

“We not only love a person because of mutual suffering, but because of what He has done for us and
because of what we can do for Him.” At the exercises Wednesday, Dr. Thompson spoke on the general subject of
fighting against temptation. He asked the question of what one should do with his life, comparing life to a football
game where one can either throw himself in for the good of the whole team or do all he can
to make himself a star. He further pointed out that although the world was full of suspicion, hate, and unrest,
the only way to fight such conditions was by loving, laughing, and lifting. These conditions should keep us from living
for ourselves.

Dr. Thompson went on to show that the fact that Jesus said, “I send you,” alone should keep us from
living for ourselves. He gave the example of a wealthy man in Chicago, who works down in the “loop” district.
He was asked by a Jew one day why he left all that money, his home and all its comforts
to come to such a place where he was scoffed and beaten and there was nothing but dirt. His answer
was simple. He said: 1900 years ago Jesus of Nazareth went to Calvary for me. All I am doing is
following Him, as He commanded.” Many say their lives are not satisfying, the speaker said. This was due to their
lack of tune with God. The best life investment is to be what you are by the will of God.
Then he gave the example of the girl who wanted to be a mother and have a family but did
not realize that it could be just as much God’s will for her to do this as to be a
missionary. Dr. Thompson closed with a picture of the Lord from Heaven walking into our hearts and looking at our
life. “Many would have to hang their heads in shame,” he concluded, “but such a thing is useless in the
presence of One whose hands had been pierced by the nails.”

Wednesday Evening

The last meeting of the series of services held by Dr. Tolly Thompson was without a doubt the most impressive.
Dr. Thompson expressed his personal gratitude for the attention during the meetings, saying, “You don't love Davidson as much as
the old men. You don't know the joy that comes when you find the same ideals upheld that existed when
I was here.” He chose for his text Developing Friendship, Acts 22:1-16. The scripture lesson was from After the songs
Shall We Gather at the River and What a Friend We Have In Jesus, Roland Parker and Archie Ray led
the meeting in prayer. The Seminary quartet then rendered a selection. The sermon in substance is as follows:

“Developing friendship does not mean that it will last forever. You must keep friendship in repair. It decays unless there
is an effort on your part. For friendship to grow you must know your friend; you must associate with him
at the cost of thought and time. And then as you know him, you love him. If we must know
Jesus we must study every phase and learn of Jesus. There are laws in the religious world as well as
in the physical. Usually in going to college a man develops a man-sized idea of the world and a child’s
idea of God. Then we wonder why you can't know Jesus unless you take time and thought. To know a
man and to become to a degree like him you must appreciate Jesus and associate with him. To know Him
means fellowship, and that means likeness to Him. Go to Jesus in troubles and temptation. For love to grow we
must serve. As you help a person there comes an enrichment in affection. You know a man as you work
and serve him. You love him better and better as you come in touch with the big things of his
life. So as you serve with Jesus you come to know Him. How can friendship grow? Did Jesus force it
upon His disciples? You can’t grow just because you resolve to grow. But to grow you must be faithful to
the requirements. Have fellowship with Jesus and it will grow. Can you say, I know Jesus as a friend?”

The house bowed in prayer and the quartet sang softly. Dr. Thompson then dismissed the assemblage with these words, “Help
us to see Jesus as He is; and see the way He is calling.”

The Hampden-Sidney publications will have a new office and permanent files for all their publications. Some of their former files
were burned, due to lack of a proper place to preserve them.—The Hampden-Sidney Tiger.

Since 1868. THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GREETINGS--- 28ers! Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes--for ANY occasion, and he'll tell you
“GILMER-MOORE’S” in Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear--they’re all to be found here NOW!

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE SHOES LUGGAGE

“Working Your Way” Made Feasible

Writing life insurance has enabled many a man to pay his way through college. It is a dignified calling and
a true social service. To induce your fellows to form habits of thrift — to obligate them to put by
a little of their income — to safeguard them against future loss of earning power—is a form of effort that
brings keen satisfaction as well as profit. These are only a few of the reasons why the insurance business today
is attracting the very best brains of America. Write for the full particulars of a plan whereby you can assist
yourself through college, and, at the same time, prepare for a profitable and satisfactory business career.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. H. B. Gunter, Vice-Pres. & Agency Manager

VICTORY CAFE A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service West Trade and Poplar Streets Charlotte

New York Cafe Davidson, N. C.

When Hungry Call On Us

Dyeing Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection

Largest Oldest CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Pressing Best 8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE
