THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1924

Miss Sarah Withers entertained a number of young people at a Valentine party Thursday evening. Mrs. Withers’ home, where the
party took place, was very appropriately decorated for the occasion. Heart-shaped blocks of cream and other refreshments were served.

BE A NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT with the Heacock Plan and earn a good income while learning; we show you how; begin
actual work at once; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Newswriters Training Bureau, Buffalo, N.
Y.

Just Any Davidson Man

Break, break, break,
On thy cold, gray stones, O Sea!
But were you to break for forty years,
You wouldn't be broker than me!

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES

Prof, "Is there such a thing as eternal love?"
Stude—"Dick McMillan says ‘Yes.’”

Another military figure has made its appearance on the Hill. Zerah, the Prince, has again donned the “O. D.” but
the decorations are gold bars and leather boots, just another of Uncle Sam's “Reserve Shaves.”

ALHAMBRA THEATRE

Now through the mails comes communication addressed to Shiek Pablo Price.

To keep from making it a lie, the guy who wrote “Stavin’ Change” inserted the “T.”

When Fresh Deck answered his anonymous Leap Year proposal, little did he know that he was writing to a married
woman.

The Merriest Place in Charlotte

The Sophomores have not been convinced yet that the Davidson College Highway was not called “Highway 26" in honor of
their distinguished class of '26.

She—"I kissed Bob last night.”
Her—"Is that right?”
She—"I don't think so, but it's so.”

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP

College Barbers—Let Us Prove It

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some
and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Rah—"That girl's neck is just like a certain typewriter I know.”
Rah—"Which one?"
Rah—"Underwood.”

Ed Brown the Math man is always talking of his geometry girl named Anna Lytics. However, we like our cousin
Ab Scissa and Cos. Ine just as well. Thames likes Lie Kule, too, as well as any of them, Izzy
his chemistry gal named Mol.

Fair One—"See that boy over there playing basketball, isn’t he cute?”
Fairer—"I'm gonna call him Teddy.”
Fair One—"Why so, sister?”
Fairer—"Because he's so bare.”

Advice to All Students Contemplating Foreign Trip

Having learned that several Wildcat boys are thinking of joining the annual hegira to parts abroad, we feel that it
is no more than right that we should publish a little advice, gained from long experience in crossing the wild
waves of the pond. One should never cross the water on a full stomach. Disastrous results are liable to follow.
It is not quite the thing for one to embrace the Frenchmen, they will do it for you.

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.

Vin Blane, Vin Rouge, and all such stuff is to be let alone except in case of illness. Beer not
to be consumed at more than one gallon per day. It is also a good plan to stay away from
all the famous watering places and health resorts as there are too many eligible Mademoiselles, and this is leap year.

4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Al Simpson—“I have a hair-raising story to tell—”
Gallaway—“Tell it to Kid Lyerly, for he’s the one who needs it.”

Rules for Occidental and Oriental Dormitories:
“Keep heads inside, in wee sma’ hours,
For then’s the time for midnight showers.”

The Raleigh Cafe always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone
fellows.

Fred Hopkins has one of these alternating current mustaches—off and on. Claytor has a Bon Ami one—it hasn't scratched yet.

Shorty Love—“You've had those trousers a long time, old thing, haven’t you had them long enough?”
C. P. Young—“I've had them two years, but they’ve never been long enough.”

Our Latest Grand Operatics—“The Old Maid’s Anxiety,” by Izzy Thare and Willie Peep.

What is more broker than a cotton broker?

221 West Trade St. (in Psychology class)—"Is there Crown To keep from making it a lie, the guy who wrote
“Stavin’ Change” inserted the “T.”

Anthology of Valentine Verse

Of all the bad boys in the school,
The worst is Pinkie Baker,
He took his girl to the golf course
And tried to undertaker,
(Note—He says he will never undertake to teach another girl golf).

Of all the Freshmen in the school,
The worst is Willie Kiser,
He sees some classy looking dame
And then he ups and buys her candy.

Of all the tightwads in this place,
Most stingy is C. Monk,
He wears my collars, socks and ties,
The dirty little skunk.

Lest we forget and cause to fret,
We'll mention Reuben Curtis,
He necks the women good and strong,
And hugs them till it hurts.

And then we'll tell another one
Of lucky Pat McNair.
He shoots the poor profs up and down
And bulls them with hot air.

Not to forget poor William Glenn.
His mama asked him where he'd been,
He said, “Why, Maw, no place perhaps,
I've just got shipped for shooting craps.”

But last we'll sing a requiem
For lowly J. A. Minter;
He tried with much mistake to wear
His B. V. D.'s in winter.

LIFE WORK CAMPAIGN (Continued from page 1)

“If we are to have a true revival, we must wait on the Spirit. Even Christ, in all His power,
waited on the Spirit. He arose early and went into the mountain to pray. If Christ had to wait on
the Spirit, how can we expect to have a revival, an awakening of God's presence, unless we wait upon the
Spirit?

“But what was the result of this waiting? Before, Peter denied that he knew Christ; after waiting, he stood up
and said, ‘Though you slay me yet will I not leave Him.’ Following the waiting on the Spirit, a great
revival, a God-made revival, occurred, and three thousand were led to Christ. And when a soul comes to Christ after
such a revival, you need not fear the sincerity and the permanency of the conversion.

“If the revival is to come, it must come in your heart. It must start in the hearts of believers.
When it gets into the hearts of theBelievers, then others will be led to Him. God's blessing waits on you.
Will you let Him in?”

The speaker used several impressive illustrations which served to bring home to his hearers great truths. One of these was
a story told by Dr. S. D. Gordon. “Christ and Gabriel were in heaven, talking about things on earth. Christ
told Gabriel, in answer to his question, that He had come into the world, suffered, and died for the world.
He told Gabriel that the only way He had for His Word to be propagated was by men who had
been brought to Him. ‘But suppose, Master, that down in the twentieth century, the people become so busy about worldly
affairs that they forget to tell others about you?’ ‘In that case,’ spoke the Messiah, ‘I have no other plans.
I’m counting on them.’”

“Can you be counted on for Him? Will you teach others to say, Abba, Father?”

Mr. King is assisted in the meetings by Mr. W. R. Beulah, who is making the song service an enjoyable
and profitable part of the meeting. The Columbia Quartet, composed of Messrs. Ellis, Pehart, Dendy, and McInnis, also rendered several
selections which added to the occasion.

Monday Services

The chapel services Monday morning were conducted by Dr. Bob King. The service did not exceed the usual length of
time. The Columbia Quartet furnished the music, Dr. King read the scripture, which was followed by prayer by Mr. Buhler.
During the services, the chapel exercises will be as usual. Following the chapel services, Dr. King will speak for 25
minutes.

The Monday night meeting of the Work Conference opened with a song service conducted by Mr. Buhler. After this, the
Quartet gave two selections. Dr. King then took charge of the meeting, and Gene Regen led the house in prayer.
After the scripture reading, which was found in the first seventeen verses of John, Mr. Ellis and Mr. Dendy played
a duet on the Marimba. And again the house was led in prayer by Mr. Jackson.

Have a packet in your pocket for ever-ready refreshment. Aids digestion. Allays thirst. Soothes the throat. For Quality, Flavor, and
Package.

The subject for the evening was The New Birth. Dr. King began his talk by citing the instance of Nicodemus
talking to Christ. How that Nicodemus was a church member, an officer, and even had the scripture sewed in his
clothes and on his forehead. Yet Christ told him, “You cannot enter into heaven unless you are born again.” “He
that hath the Son has light,” and he that has not the Son has not light,” and so to make
a man go to hell, “He must reject Jesus,” for the minor sins will not send him to hell, “Yet
he will suffer for the sins when he goes to hell, if he rejects Jesus.”

The subject, “Ye must be born again” has been preached on more than almost any other subject. John Wesley spoke
on the subject so much that it almost became a habit, and what was his reward? Look at the great
Methodist Church of today. Moody and all of the other great preachers of the past always found that this was
the keynote.”

An appeal was made to the students to forget that they had been baptized, or what denomination they belonged to,
and just think of the pure old-time religion. “The question is, ‘Is your name in the Lamb's Book of Life?’
It is not whether you are a church member, or whether you have been baptized. The only man spoken of
as going to hell in the Bible was a church member. The only man spoken of in the Bible as
going to heaven was not a church member.”

“You can't break a horse,” the speaker said, “by putting him in a good pasture, and having a nice fence
around him.” “You may look good on the outside, but just bite in and you will soon hit a rotten
place.”

Dr. King gave as a definition of the New Birth, “It is a miraculous happening or act wrought by God's
Holy Spirit and injected into us.” And for testing whether we know this new birth the speaker said, “Do you
love your fellow men? Do you love Christians just because they are Christians? When you know you are doing wrong,
do you keep on doing wrong? And do you know Christ?”

How can we get this new birth? Jesus tells us to do the impossible, but He gives us the grace
and the power to do it.” A vivid picture was brought to the attention of the students of the old
mother who for 29 years had waited on her son, an invalid, and when asked the question, ‘Do you not
get tired of this lonesome life,’ she said, ‘If I knew the child would ever look up into my face
and call me “mother” I could and would gladly wait on him for 29 more years.’ Christ has been sitting
on the throne for 2,000 years, looking, caring, and longing for us to look up at Him and call Him
the Christ and believe on Him,” Dr. King said.

The meeting closed with the question, “Will you take Him now? Are you willing to be born again?”

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Pianos
Steinway Pianos
Interior Decorations
Player Pianos and Pianola
Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY.
