& 4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS................. Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE............... Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. Managing Editor
WATT McCALLIE................. Circulation Manager
M. GARRISON.................... Assistant Circulation Manager
A. LAKE......................... Assistant Managing Editor
A. B. PRICE..................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. GATHOWAY................. Athletic Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD................. Peanut Parcher Editor
W. M. COX....................... Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON................... Alumni Editor

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres.
APPLEBY, M.
BOWIE, A.
GARRISON, J. M.
GIBBS, L. B.
GREEN, R.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
MILTON, W.
SMITH, C. F.
STORY, P. J.
MONK, C. F.
MORROW, G. M.
O'CONNOR, E. P.
PARKER, R. B.
PITTS, B. Y.
RATCHFORD, B. U.
REGEN, E. K.
ROGERS, G. D.
THOMPSON, J. B.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
WILSON, D. G.

Chong McIlwaine, newly elected head of the Davidsonian, with his editorial board, the personnel of which is announced in this
issue of the Davidsonian, succeeds to the editor’s desk with the next issue of the paper. The editor takes this
means of expressing his deepest appreciation for the earnest co-operation of the retiring staff, and the sincere interest manifested by
the entire student body, in an effort to make the Davidsonian the best college weekly in the South plus “the
livest wire on the Hill.”

The sympathy of the entire student body is extended to Mason Fields in his recent bereavement.

Davidson will be represented at the convention of the Southern Federation of College Students held next week at Chapel Hill.

IN UNION IS STRENGTH

The surrender of the Davidsonian to new hands brings the realization that the work of the class of ’24 is
about completed. For the eighty-eighth time in the history of Davidson College, a Senior class will be sent from the
graduating halls into the fields of service, to be succeeded on the campus by another class whose capacity to carry
on the work left by capable hands will push them further along the road of achievement than any preceding class
has ever traveled. The class of ’24 has stood for certain ideals, and its leaders have exerted themselves to attain
honors for the class and for the college. Not only through its leaders, but through the co-operation and teamwork of
its entire membership, ’24 has endeavored to place every one of her activities a rung higher in the scale of
achievement. To accomplish this end, every member of the class has flung aside his personal desires and selfish ambitions. All
thought of self was swept away in a flood of class spirit and enthusiasm. There are no individuals in the
class of ’24. Every individuality has been cemented into an inseparable unit. It has moved at all times—sometimes in the
wrong direction, it is true—with a concentrated effort. The physical law of friction has been exploded in favor of a
new law whose sense is friendship, harmony, and singleness of aim. The greatest honor that could be paid to ’24
would be to be remembered as “the class that stood together.” What a tribute for any class to live on,
after the achievements of individuals have been forgotten. What matters if the name of every member be forgotten, and ’24
lives on! Ten years from now, when members of the class are reviewing the days they spent on the Davidson
campus, they will feel a pride in the success of the student government, the Davidsonian, the Annual, the Glee Club,
the Y. M. C. A., and other activities which were led by men of ’24. How much more sincere and
earnest will this pride be when it is remembered that these successes were the result of a united effort and
the “everlastin’” teamwork of every bloomin’ soul. The class of ’24 has been a successful class! It will leave Davidson
better than it was four years ago! But ’24 has done no more than have the other eighty-seven classes which
have gone before. The errors of one class naturally are a profit to the class which follows, and its achievements
are a foundation for higher building. ’25 will rise to a plane never before attained. May she profit by the
errors of this year’s class and may she accept the lesson of coherent thought and action—the byword of ’24.

A HOUSE CLEANING

“Just now the college is the haunt of a lot of leather-necked, brass-lunged, money-spending snobs who rush around the campus
snubbing the few choice spirits who come to college to seek out reason and the will of God.” Does your
blood boil when you read this statement? Does your heart action double? Do you tear your tie into shreds in
the tense excitement which accompanies the reading of such a paragraph from William Allen White, editor of prominence? If this
statement doesn’t bring a tinge of red to your cheeks, perhaps your calm and serene nature can be stirred by
the accusation of Mr. Smith, of Roanoke College, in which the college women of America are branded as “hard-drinking, cigarette-puffing,
licentious Amazons.” Mr. White and Mr. Smith are merely influential units in an organization of educational reformers, seeking, probably, not
to murder college education and higher learning, but to shame the students of the nation into passiveness and a change
of moral code. They are relentless in their invective utterances. Their generalized statements are purposed to spread like a blanket
from coast to coast. There are no “ifs” and “buts” to exonerate a single college or a single college student.
They hurl their sharpened philippics with little regard for the landing place, and with a hope that they will cut
to the quick wherever they may land. But few educators—men and women who are sufficiently equipped and informed to combat
the too general and exaggerated statements of these critics—have made the slightest effort to defend the college system and the
college student. Fewer students—men and women not so competent to carry on a counter-attack, but more privileged to resent the
slanderous outbursts—have taken up the cudgel in their defense. “Having no wish to advertise such rubbish by attacking it,” is
the reason assigned by Professor Phelps for the general quietude on the part of the slandered. The retort will occasion
little additional publicity, however, since the accusation has already been spread abroad in the press and periodicals, and it is
but fair that something be said to exonerate the poor bedraggled aspirant for higher and broader education. The student cannot
be the indolent, snobbish character portrayed in the caustic criticisms of Mr. White and Mr. Smith. The college system would
go toppling if it were built upon such unstable sands. It is not my purpose, in this short article, to
combat these bold asseverations, worthy though such a conflict might be. Rather I would dig away the top sand which
is blown about by every passing wind, dig through the topsoil and examine the underlying strata. In every college, as
in every other institution of life, there is a variety of types. A student body naturally falls into a number
of groups. The laws of human nature require that certain of these groups fall below the standards set by other
of these groups. There is always the group of the indolent, the group of the sophisticated and selfish, and so
on. It is a serious mistake, then, for a critic to accept any one of these minority groups as a
criterion for the judgment of an entire institution. Might not any one of the groups, the honor roll students, for
instance, be accepted as the measuring rod?

Open Forum Chaff

This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any subject which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.

CO-OPERATION

In the recent discussion in this column much that is true and right has been said but some has been
merely a very large explosion of hot air. WhatThe Davidson student body and the college really need more cooperation and
less hot air. If each man in the student body cooperates with those who head our activities and the men
who play on our teams in the proper way, surely they will do their best. The Davidson student body has
not gone to the dogs, as some would have us believe, but it merely does not have the proper spirit
of cooperation which true Davidson Spirit demands. It is the spirit which makes us back our teams, win or lose,
that makes us do everything in our power to see Davidson at the top in every way, regardless of present
position, that really counts. This does not apply to athletics only. It applies to every student activity. How can we
better this situation? Only by the cooperation of every single man in the student body. The statement has been made
that almost any old thing can be put across in student body meetings. Is that true? Ask yourself, for in
many cases your vote plays a large part in the final result. When you vote for something, do you first
consider whether or not it will be for the good of Davidson College? Or do you just cast your vote
at random? In an election, do you vote for the man whom you think is best suited for the office?
Or do you vote for the man whom you like best but who probably wouldn't be as good a man
for the job as some other man? When you do something, do you do your best? You alone can answer
this, but—think it over. Let’s back every officer of the student body, every team win or lose, and do all
in our power to put Davidson College on the map and keep it there. Let’s have more cooperation and less
knocking. Let’s make “Win for the honor of old Davidson,” our motto, and—do it. It can’t be done unless every
man does his own part. Unless we do, it can indeed be truthfully said that Davidson is on a par
with Lenoir and Guilford and Elon.

D. G. WILSON.

These warped opinions cannot be taken without a grain of salt. The college students themselves know that the statements are
exaggerated, and that there is but a degree of truth in them—but what about the thousands and tens of thousands
of people who are not so familiar with college life? They are gulping down every word of the William Allen
White text, and from this diet, they are forming opinions of college life. As long as these self-appointed critics continue
to defame the college man, the college system will not occupy the place it should in the minds of the
general public. It remains, then, for the collegian to hush this adverse propaganda. How can he do it? Not through
the press, you immediately say, for the undergraduate cannot combat the “old heads” and their degrees, on this ground. No
credence will be given to a reply if it comes from the pen or tongue of a mere student. There
is one way of correcting the adverse opinions the public may hold, and to substitute for them a faith and
belief in college students. It is idealistic, maybe Utopian, but it is the one way. Bring all the possible pressure
to bear upon the minority class which is the cause of the unfair criticism, start a reformation in this group,
and completely wipe out the snob element of the American college. As long as there is a trace of snobbishness,
faint though it may be, the name and character of every college man is endangered. The short-sighted critic makes no
exception for the man who has the spirit of fraternity and equality in his heart. Colleges are becoming more and
more organized every day. It should be the part of every organization, no matter what its primary aims might be,
to take stock of its own membership with the view to “cleaning house.” This accomplished, a movement should be set
on foot to organize the campus against “leather-necked, brass-lunged, money-spending” snobbishness. In the colleges where this element is in the
distinct minority, it can be easily wiped out. In institutions where the group is larger, the number can be materially
reduced with an earnest, concentrated effort.

MORE ELECTIONS

“Und did you notice, Mr. Feber, that this electioneering business is getting more obstreperous all the time, yes?”
“Und I did, Mr. Wields. Is electioneering any relation to auctioneering, or engineering? I have heard someone say that they
were all ears.”
“No, my friend, Mr. Feber, but they have always wanted to get in the limelight of the public eye, and
to make their good works known. Now take me for instance, who was once a candidate for chief dog catcher
of Oshkosh, I would have won but a hot dog man beat me in the races.”
“That was too bad, my friend Mr. Wields, and did you get bit? I was wanting to be a captain
in the Salvation Army, but when the converts would tell of the whiskeys that they have drunk, I could not
withstand the temptation to sympathize with them, consequently, I was put on the police.”
“Well, Mr. Feber, I’m afraid that the present generation thinks too many times of the honors of elections, and not
the money which they should think of. This is the Land of the Free but everyone thinks that he is
free to get elected to something. I would like to get elected to something if it was no more than
to be an Admiral in the Horse Marines at Mare Island, Cal.”

THE UGLIEST MAN

This spring has seen the election of men for nearly every office in the student body—class presidents, student representatives, et
cetera. It is meet that a long-deferred honor should be bestowed on a student of Davidson, and that is the
title of the ugliest man. It is a known fact that Davidson men are known for their pulchritude of physiognomy
but notwithstanding this fact, there are several men here who are potential candidates for the World’s Ugliest Man. Starting with
the Senior class, Dick McMillan undoubtedly leads the list, Rube Curdts and Crown Prince Young coming not far behind. Ted
Jones is a potential candidate but some think he is too insignificant to be noticed. He thinks that he is
good looking anyway. Chong McIlwaine and Dick Littlejohn should hold up the honor of their class and should have no
trouble in defeating even Dick McMillan. Goat Lewis and Dope Mathewson are no cheap skates when it comes to ugliness
either. For the Sophomores, Ben Franklin and Yeargin are the most promising candidates, with Brenner, Ramseur and Rayburn not far
behind. The Freshman class is rich in its store of jar heads and dimwits but among the foremost we might
mention Freshes Wharton, Craig, Thompson and Pinckney as the likely looking ones. It is up to the student body as
to when this election shall be held. A large key should be given to the winner, like unto a Phi
Beta Kappa key, made of platinum, brass or something similar. He should be given a loving cup and if he
is not the most popular member of the student body, we lose our guess.

Prof.—Mr. Faison, is the word pants singular or plural?
’Lias—Well, doctor, pants are singular at the top and plural at the bottom.

One Fresh asked another if he knew how rats got in the house. The one who was addressed said “Naw,”
whereupon the first said “Uh Huh.”

4,000 A.D.—Prof. R. B. Walker, XVII of the University of Heidelberg, noted beer guzzler, while on exploration tours for the
International Diabolical Society found the supposed ruins of the ancient Collegio Davidsoniensis. While exhuming the remains from the coat of
lava soap cast up by Mount Mourne, the noted bacteriologist discovered interesting fossil remains of the twentieth century. One interesting
skeleton was found about seven feet in length; the professor believing it to be the remains of the ancient Zerah,
Crown Prince of the Ethiopians who was in that territory at the time of the eruption. A faint odor of
garlic still clung to this relic of the past. A large and ungainly looking fossil believed to be that of
some kind of unknown animal was exhumed from the debris of a brick building. Its pedal appendages were extremely long
in relation to its size, and the head was peculiarly egg-shaped. A manuscript near the skeleton bore the name of
E. M. Regen, what this is, is not known. A curious looking contrivance was found still emanating weird sounds from
its interior, uncouth and raucous they were: The strange name “Victrola” was on it. An exceedingly large and huge carcass
in an excellent state of preservation was found with a collection of bottles, with the title “Coca Cola” on them,
the being was evidently in the act of imbibing of the fluid when the lava encompassed him. Papers found near
the body gave the name of McKinnon, and records since discovered proclaim him to be the “Buffalo” of history.
