The Davidsonian, April 24, 1924

LARGE REGISTRATION IS EXPECTED BY HENGEVELD

All indications point toward a large Freshman class for next year. According to Mr. Hengeveld, the Registrar, over 100 applications
have already been received for entrance in the fall. Approximately 100 have already paid their room deposit. Appeals are still
coming in and with a limit of 225, registration will probably close in the early summer.

"Nothing’s too good for my boy!” What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything
college men wear-- real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring,
English and American fabrics-- coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats -- rainproof. Soft hats,
caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate.

MELLON’S

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT—
Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St - CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

Rev. C. M. Franklin Talks At “Y” Vesper Service
Widely Known Lecturer and Educator of Crossnore School Will Give Inspiring Talk

Next Sunday evening the Y. M. C. A. Vesper service will be in charge of the newly installed officers. The
speaker will be Rev. C. McCoy Franklin, president of Crossnore School. Mr. Franklin is a widely known lecturer, being known
especially for his ability to imitate the calls of birds. A large attendance is expected at this meeting, not only
of the Davidson student body, but of out-of-town guests. A number of people have signified their intention of coming from
a distance to hear Mr. Franklin.

Crossnore School, under the direction of Mr. Franklin, has grown from a one-room school to an accredited high school. This
school is doing a great work among the people of the mountains of North Carolina. Associated with Mr. Franklin are
two people who are known to the people of Davidson. One of them is the sister of Dr. Martin; the
other, a graduate of Davidson, Archie Freeman, ’21. Mr. Franklin has turned down handsome offers for a life on the
stage, in order to continue his splendid work.

WILDCATS SHAKE OFF JINX
(Continued from page 1)

the ball and threw to Laird at second. Thomas hit to Simpson for the third out.

Carolina Scores First
Ferebee was credited with three assists in the opening frame when Marrow, Covington, and Smith hit to him in succession.
The Tar Heels got off to a good start in the opening frame. McDonald walked and Bonner was hit by
a pitched ball. Coffee laid down a bunt and advanced both runners. Casey Morris knocked a double to left, scoring
both men. Laird tightened down and the next two men were out in order.

Both teams went out in order in the second but S. Alford got the Wildcats’ first hit in the third
when he beat out a bunt down the third base line. Vance sacrificed him to second but Simpson popped up.
Marrow walked but Covington forced Marrow at second.

Carolina threatened again in her half when Coffee singled with two out, stole second, and went to third on F.
Alford’s error. Morris hit a foul to Alford to end the inning.

Tar Heels Make One in Fourth
Boushee was hit by Ferebee but died at first in the fourth. Gibson flew out to Boushee and Dodderer singled
to center. Johnson popped up to Simpson and Thomas singled to center, Dodderer scoring when Boushee let the ball slip
through him. Thomas was out going to third on the play.

In the next three innings nine men faced Laird and not a man reached first. In the fifth the Wildcats
again got two men on base. With two down Simpson singled and Marrow walked, but Covington flew out to McDonald.
The Wildcats had only garnered two hits off Ferebee’s delivery during the first five innings and with three on left
on base and the Tar Heels two.

Wildcats Bunch Hits
Alford knocked a high fly to left to start the eighth and the fielders let it fall safe, Frank taking
second on Dodderer’s fumble. Boushee beat out a bunt, Alford taking third. Alford scored on Laird’s sacrifice fly, and Boushee
went to second. Boushee took third on Sion Alford’s single and scored on a passed ball, Alford scored when Vance
made a scratch hit over Poyner’s head.

In Carolina's half, Coffee's homer and Alford’s single in the ninth. Laird pitched a steady game all the way, the
Tar Heels bunching hits in two innings.

Simpson’s Fielding Features
Peewee Simpson, Wildcat second-baseman, had a perfect day in the field, accepting 10 chances without an error. Sion Alford led
both teams at bat, getting three hits out of four trips to the plate. Coffee, with a homer and single,
led the Tar Heel hitters. Johnson, Carolina shortstop, also featured. Morris played a steady game at first and accounted for
two of the Carolina runs. The hits were evenly divided, both teams getting eight. The Wildcats had nine men left
on base and the Tar Heels two. Coltrane, who faced the last two batters, receives credit for the loss.

BENTON WHARTON WINS
(Continued from page 1)

we accept our Ph.D.’s in the art of superficiality, J. M. Carr, in his Spirit of the Age, pointed out
the growing tendency of nations to have a feeling of unity, a growing conception of internationalism, and the development of
an international consciousness. Woodrow Wilson and others are apostles of this progress in civilization among the nations of the world.

L. B. Gibbs traced the development of the race problem, with particular reference to the negro problem in the United
States. He stated that the negro problem should be solved in the South by the Southerners who are most intimately
in touch with the facts and the situation as it is. But the Southerners are often inadequate in their view
of the problem.

A. C. Ray, in his speech entitled The Passing of the Caliphate, began by tracing the development of the great
civilizations of the world, the Persian, Old and New Babylonian, the Greek, the Roman, and finally the English and American,
in their progress toward the final destiny for which they were intended. The changing of the Turkish regime, the passing
of the Caliphate, mark a turning point for the better in Turkey.

F. C. Hopkins, speaking on Brotherhood, cited the statement that it is widely believed that the only work for the
church is to preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified. The time is coming more and more when church workers and
social workers are going to realize that their aim is the same.

A. M. Martin, in his oration, The Best for Test, showed briefly how science was making claims contrary to or
with no consideration of the Bible. Free thought and radicalism is necessary for progress, but why not let them in
the lead, but the Wildcats won on Laird pitched a steady game all the way, the Tar Heels bunching hits
in two innings. Simpson’s Fielding Features Peewee Simpson, Wildcat second-baseman, had a perfect day in the field, accepting 10 chances
without an error. Sion Alford led both teams at bat, getting three hits out of four trips to the plate.
Coffee, with a homer and single, led the Tar Heel hitters. Johnson, Carolina shortstop, also featured. Morris played a steady
game at first and accounted for two of the Carolina runs. The hits were evenly divided, both teams getting eight.
The Wildcats had nine men left on base and the Tar Heels two. Coltrane, who faced the last two batters,
receives credit for the loss. BENTON WHARTON WINS (Continued from page 1) we accept our Ph.D.’s in the art of
superficiality, J. M. Carr, in his Spirit of the Age, pointed out the growing tendency of nations to have a
feeling of unity, a growing conception of internationalism, and the development of an international consciousness. Woodrow Wilson and others are
apostles of this progress in civilization among the nations of the world. L. B. Gibbs traced the development of the
race problem, with particular reference to the negro problem in the United States. He stated that the negro problem should
be solved in the South by the Southerners who are most intimately in touch with the facts and the situation
as it is. But the Southerners are often inadequate in their view of the problem. A. C. Ray, in his
speech entitled The Passing of the Caliphate, began by tracing the development of the great civilizations of the world, the
Persian, Old and New Babylonian, the Greek, the Roman, and finally the English and American, in their progress toward the
final destiny for which they were intended. The changing of the Turkish regime, the passing of the Caliphate, mark a
turning point for the better in Turkey. F. C. Hopkins, speaking on Brotherhood, cited the statement that it is widely
believed that the only work for the church is to preach Jesus Christ and Him crucified. The time is coming
more and more when church workers and social workers are going to realize that their aim is the same. A.
M. Martin, in his oration, The Best for Test, showed briefly how science was making claims contrary to or with
no consideration of the Bible. Free thought and radicalism is necessary for progress, but why not leta sacrifice fly to
left, scoring Boushee. Simpson hit to short to end the inning. Both pitchers hurled airtight ball during the seventh. Carolina
took the field in the

CALENDAR

Friday, April 25—
3:30 p.m.—Baseball game, Davidson vs. Atlantic Christian College.

Saturday, April 26—
7:30 p.m.—Movies, “The Last Moment.”

Sunday, April 27—
1:15 p.m.—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
6:00 p.m.—Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service.

Tuesday, April 29—
7:30 p.m.—Pan. and Metro. Literary Societies.
9:30 p.m.—Bible Classes.

Sion Alford. Poyner went in for Moore, that progress be directed, and bound in by the safe direction of the
principles of the Bible. Mechanistic psychology and atheistic evolution are but examples of the above tendencies. Christianity has proved itself
the best by test for two thousand years where other systems have shown their points of weakness, and Christianity is
also the best for test in thought and action.

FRESH DEBATERS SPLIT
(Continued from page 1)

that the Filipinos are capable of maintaining their national unity against foreign aggression. Some of the points of the negative
were: that the Philippines were unfit for the proposed move on account of the internal condition of the country; that
self-government had been a failure; that the Philippines did not have a stable government. The judges were Messrs. Pharr and
Boyd, of Mooresville, and Hull, of Charlotte. Their decision was unanimously in favor of the affirmative.

At Wake Forest, the Davidson team, L. Williams, L. D. Wharton and E. R. Erwin, upheld the negative against T.
W. Baker, C. R. Tew and Ralph Carlton. The arguments advanced were very much the same as those used at
Davidson. The judges in this debate were Messrs. J. A. Livingstone, S. R. Sygerly and Dr. Thomas D. Harrison, all
of Raleigh. Their decision was two to one in favor of Wake Forest.

Sunrise Service Beneath Boughs Easter Morning
Henry Paterson, ’22, Leads Devotional Services—Many Students and Visitors Attend

A group composed of volunteers, ministerial students, members of the Christian Endeavor Training Class and visiting friends met on the
golf links Easter morning for a “sunrise service.” In spite of the lively time Saturday night, about 40 students and
visiting girls gathered at 7:30 Easter morning when Henry Patterson, ’22, now at Union Seminary, led them in a quiet
and impressive service.

After several hymns and a prayer by Harry Price, Henry Patterson led the main devotion. His theme was taken from
I John 4:8 “God is love.” Attention was called to the glory of God's creation in evidence all about—bursting buds,
caroling birds, spring everywhere, but God is only the Maker of it all. Patterson urged the group to remember the
victory of the Cross, to place complete trust in our risen Lord, remembering that in the Cross is perfect love
offered to a lost world. Sentence prayers were offered by almost every member of the group followed by “Seal Us
Oh Holy Spirit,” sung by the entire band.

While the beauties of new springtime and the glories of the wonderful Easter morning shone round about, there seemed to
be a new life in the hearts of those who worshipped in the glory of the great out-of-doors. Surely Easter
meant more to those who went to such a quiet place to meditate upon the true meaning of our Lord’s
day. All went away feeling that it was good to have been there, to find the empty tomb anew, to
remember, as Patterson expressed it, “He is not here for He is risen, as He said. Go quickly and tell
others. Tell them of the power that raises all who believe from the death of sin and gives eternal life
with our risen Lord.”

FIVE NEW MEN
(Continued from page 1)

fall initiation, W. M. Cox, A. M. Hillhouse, J. I. Smith and D. B. Walthall were initiated. These four men,
with the five men recently bid, are all graduates of 1924. J. H. Davis has been an honor pupil at
Davidson. Bevo has established a record in class work that has won for him a place as assistant professor of
Biology at Davidson. He will receive his A.B. and M.A. degrees next commencement. Literary Society and its work. He was
also manager of the 1923 football team and is now on the track squad.

E. D. Brown has shown his ability as a student in his work at Davidson College. He was one of
the honor roll students for the fall semester this year. Ed has played his part in class basketball and has
held numerous places as assistant professor.

W. T. Gallaway, Jr., has shown prominence in literary pursuits. Aside from his high average in scholastic work, Gallaway has
shown his skill in writing both poetry and prose. Numbers of his plays have been presented at Davidson. He is
now editor of the Davidson College Magazine. Gallaway has also shown himself a critic worthy of note. He is also
a member of the track team, of which he was captain last year.

R. R. Jones has confined his work to no certain campus activity. He has proven his worth in required school
work as well as with the publications and literary societies of the school. He is now president of the class
of 1924, which position he has filled with great executive ability.

W. Z. Bradford, aside from his class work, has interested himself in the Metrophilian

Who’s Who 1924-25

Student Body
President—J. P. Hendrix.
Vice-President—T. S. Baker.
Vice-President—N. E. Sappenfield.
Secretary—J. F. Pinkney.

Y. M. C. A.
President—H. B. Price.
Vice-President—R. W. Oeland.
Secretary—A. H. Hollingsworth.

Senior Class
President—J. R. Briggs.
Vice-President—A. M. Martin.
Secretary—W. M. Gracey.

Junior Class
President—H. L. Shaw.
Vice-President—B. T. Crayton.
Secretary—T. S. Lawson.

Sophomore Class
President—W. T. Covington.
Vice-President—J. W. Keerans.
Secretary—W. S. Woods.

Davidsonian
Editor—C. M. S. McIlwaine.
Business Manager—K. S. McAlpine.

Magazine
Editor—A. M. Martin.
Business Manager—J. M. Selser.

Annual
Editor—J. A. Lake.
Business Manager—T. B. Brown.

STUDENT COUNCIL

Seniors
J. P. Hendrix.
J. R. Briggs.
M. S. Beall.
R. E. Boggs.
C. M. S. McIlwaine.

Juniors
H. L. Shaw.
A. H. Hollingsworth.
T. S. Baker.
N. W. Sappenfield.
W. T. Covington.
C. C. Murchison.

Athletic Association
President—J. M. Covington.
Vice-President—T. S. Baker.
Vice-President—J. M. Selser.
Secretary-Treasurer—W. A. Christian.

Football
Captain—C. M. Davis.
Manager—A. W. McAlister.

Basketball
Captain—R. E. Boggs.
Manager—R. W. Oeland.

Wrestling
Captain—J. M. Selser.
Manager—N. Patterson.

Dramatic Club
President—A. M. Martin.

Glee Club
President—J. H. Patton.

The Glee Club ended its successful 1923-24 season Wednesday night when it appeared in concert in Concord, N. C. A
number of short trips have been made by the club this spring, a regular tour being denied them by the
faculty, because of the extended tri-state tour of last fall. The faculty also declined to allow the club to compete
for state honors at the State Glee Club meet in Durham, because it would have necessitated the loss of a
day’s work. The work of the club this spring has been a thorough success, in spite of restriction, and the
Wildcat musicians still wear the laurel crown they won on the fall tour.

Lost—A Delta Pi Kappa key. Return to A. C. Wildman, 3 South Barracks.

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver
