THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

1904—Rev. Warner H. Dubose is doing fine work as pastor of the Westminster Church, Bluefield, W. Va.

1900—Rev. W. W. Morton has changed his pastorate from Millersburg to Louisville, and his new address is 3033 Virginia Avenue.

1910—Rev. M. R. Long has received and accepted a call to the Vinesville Presbyterian Church, Macon, Ga.

1911—Rev. E. G. Clary was married to Miss Annie Joe Marks on December 19, 1923.

1917—Dan C. McLeod is now living at Cocoa, Fla.

1917—Announcement comes of the approaching marriage of Mr. James Purdie McNeill, Jr., and Miss Isabel Robertson on Tuesday, February 12,
1924, at the Trinity Church of Columbia, S. C.

1918—The body of Tazewell N. Morton, who died of influenza in France, has been brought to America and is now
buried in Tranquillity Cemetery, near Oxford, N. C.

1921—J. R. Story is now studying at the University of North Carolina.

1922—J. M. Alexander is now a student at Georgetown University, Washington, D. C.

1923—H. A. Bailey is teaching at Parksville, N.C.

DR. BEN R. LACY RECEIVES CALL TO LEXINGTON, VA.

It was learned Saturday that Dr. Ben R. Lacy, Jr., pastor of the Central Presbyterian Church of Atlanta, Ga., and
one of the most popular ministers in Atlanta, has been tendered a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Lexington,
Va., and has taken the call under advisement. Dr. Lacy returned Saturday from Lexington, where he visited, it is said,
to look over the church and its congregation before accepting or rejecting the call. Dr. Lacy stated Saturday that he
had come to no decision on the call yet, and that he was not prepared to announce his decision until
later on in the coming week. A movement has been started by Dr. Lacy’s friends to induce him to stay
at the Central Church in Atlanta, of which he has been pastor for nearly five years.

YOUR POLICY?

Question: A chimney fire in a house next door is showering the roof of your dwelling with sparks. The owner,
however, makes no effort to use the garden hose or buckets of water to prevent his shingle roof from burning.
How does this affect his policy?

Answer: Renders it void.

W. E. PRICE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,100,000.00
Charlotte, N. C.

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
I. W. T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
A. T. SUMMEY, V.-Pres. and Cashier
STEWART, Asst. Cashier and Trust Officer

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Lost and Found

Lost—Kaywoodie Pipe. Any information appreciated. Return to 103 West.

Found—In parlor of West, one green top coat. Owner call 110 West and get same.

Lost—Two straight chairs with name and “5 La.” engraved on posterior portion. Would like to see them back again.

WILDCAT QUINT SPLITS

(Continued from page 3)

The Red and Black squad went into the last half with the real Wildcat fight and the all-round playing of
the squad enabled Sapp and Laird to cage the ball almost alternately. At one point the home team led 31-22,
but just as the game was closing Belmont threw three field goals, but the game ended 31-28. The two teams
both accounted for 13 field goals while Davidson got 5 out of 13 foul shots and Belmont 2 out of
a possible 3. Line-up and summary follow:

Davidson (31) Position Belmont (28)
Sapp (13) Right forward Howe
Laird (15) Left forward Abernathy (4)
Davis Center Leeper (15)
Mallory Right guard West (6)
Staley Left guard Bell (6)

Substitutions—For Davidson: Hewlett for Staley (1st half); Staley for Hewlett (1st half); Mallory for Davis (2nd half).Shots: Staley 3 out
of 4; Hewlett 0 out of 5; Sapp 1 out of 2; Boggs 1 out of 2; total Davidson 5
out of 13. Leeper 1 out of 1; Belmont 2 out of 3. Referee: Hengeveld.

Guilford Game
The Davidson Wildcats downed the Guilford Christians in a keenly contested game, each team putting forth its best efforts to
overcome the leads of the other aggregation. The offense of the Presbyterians stiffened in the last half, and the score
of 33 to 23 shows the spirited fight put up by Coach Younger's youngsters.

From the first blast of the whistle, the Guilford bunch showed a determination and vigor that netted them seven tallies
before the Wildcats could rally their somewhat erratic defense. Coming back strong, the Davidson quint worked together as a man
and carried the ball up the floor to the basket. With Sook Boggs playing the part of stellar guard, the
opposing forwards found every one of their shots crowded, except for the few that found the basket from the near
center of the floor, J. W. Frazier propelling them with a sure arm and perfect aim. One of his long
shots from the center of the court gained the cheers of the big crowd that thronged the gymnasium.

The first half ended 15-9 in favor of the Wildcats. Coming back strong in the final period, the fighting five
of the Presbyterians developed an attack with a spread formation connected with lightning-like passes that found the goal three times
in nearly as many minutes. Both teams tallied one point on foul shots, Davidson having 5 chances at the basket
and Guilford 7. Davidson was going her best when the final whistle blew, showing the effect of hard training and
cooperative team work. Sapp showed up well, preventing many scores by his guarding and accurate passing. Hewlett, substituting for Staley,
did well as forward. The whole Guilford squad showed great fight, Thomas as guard, and Frazier and Cummings showing up
well.

Line-up and summary:
Davidson (33) Position Guilford (23)
R. Smith Left forward J. W. Frazier (c) Right forward
Boggs Thomas
Sapp J. G. Frazier
Hall 1 out of 1; West 0 out of 1; total

Substitutions—For Davidson: Hewlett for Davis. For Guilford: Ferrell for Smith. Foul shots: Laird 1 out of 2; Sapp 0 out
of 2; total for Davidson 1 out of 5. Cummings 0 out of 1; J. G. Frazier 1 out of
2; Thomas 0 out of 5; total for Guilford 1 out of 7.

Y. M. C. A. MAKES PLANS
(Continued from page 1)
of students and several have signified so by requesting delegations sent to them. One will be sent to Shelby, consisting
of a quartet and several leading workers. Selma, N.C., and Lexington, have also been put on the list for delegations.
A. M. Hillhouse, B. Price, and J. P. Hendrix will make up a deputation which will be sent to Lexington
about the last of this month.

MIRTH MENU
(Continued from page 1)
The committee has an innovation in the way of a purely social feature up their sleeve. "Watch the headlines;" Look
forward to the greatest occasion yet, which will be held at the finest spot on earth, and be sure to
have the greatest little girl on earth there to help you enjoy, advises the Junior class.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

We are specially prepared to analyze and take care of your INSURANCE NEEDS. A consultation with us might SAVE YOU
SEVERE LOSSES.
McALISTER CARSON, Manager
Insurance Department
Independence Trust Company
Phone 3940
