THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

CHANGES OF ADDRESS

1916—Rev. J. G. Patton, from Dublin to Atlanta, Ga., 506 South Pryor Street.
1908—Rev. R. M. Stimson, from Atlanta to Columbus, Ga., care First Presbyterian Church.

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

PNEUMONIA
Always call a physician. Until his arrival use “emergency” treatment with Vicks. This does not interfere with anything he may prescribe.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S
College Barbers—Let Us Prove It

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Rube Curtis—“I’m going to marry a woman who can take a joke.”
“Johnny” Smith—“If you ever marry one, it'll be that kind.”

“Fresh” (on bus)—"May I sit by you?”
“Buffalo” McKinnon—“You're welcome to try.”

Soph—“I got in a big fight last week and was badly hurt in the combat.”
Fresh—“What part of the body is that?”

We observe that McAlpine is wearing adhesive on his chin. He better watch these girls when he kisses ‘em or he will get hurt. We knew a man once who got his tongue bit off the same way. To quote from the well-known poet, “Duke” Walthall:
“I used to date Sweet Mary Young;
I quit because She bit my tongue.”

Hoffman wins the collapsible soda-straw for being dumb. He forgot that Lab. didn't meet on Wednesday, and when the Prof. didn’t arrive, after five minutes he rushed madly back to his room shouting ‘Hooray! I got a cut.” Almost as bad as Mr. Jackson. He left his roll book, so when he got to class he said: “Everybody that is absent will please say so, so I can check up on the class.”

Our weekly song hit: “She was a bootlegger’s daughter, so he knew she had the stuff.”

Him—“I can hold my breath for two minutes.”
Her—“Gosh! You must be awfully strong.”

Tommy—"How much French have you had?”
McIntyre—“Four years.”
Tommy—“How's that?”
McIntyre—“One year Fresh—three years Soph.”

“Have you an opening for a bright young man?”
“Yes, and don’t forget to close it when you go out.”

Fresh Varnadoe says that they had an old hen on their farm and they fed her on sawdust. When she hatched a dozen eggs eleven of the chicks had wooden legs and one was a woodpecker. He says that it gets so hot down in Thomasville that one summer they tied their old mule to a crib of popcorn, and the popcorn began popping and flying around the mule’s ears, and he thought it was snow and laid down and froze to death. Well, that’s possible—Varnadoe lives so far back in the country that he has to go the last mile on a grapevine.

Women are like street cars—never run after them for there will be another along in a minute. Very slow and old-fashioned but they are lots faster.

Shiek—“Did you ever go to the zoo?”
Very slow and old-fashioned girl—“No. Why?”
Shiek—“You ought to go, you'd enjoy seeing the snails go whizzing by.”

No, no, Ichabod, Joan of Arc was not Noah's wife and Scotland Yard is not a playground.

A Londoner looking over a country estate was startled by a peculiar screeching sound.
“I say, old chap,” he asked, “what is that?”
“An owl.”
“Thunder, I know that—but what ‘owling?”

Bill Murray—“Gimme a cigarette.”
Buster Gray—“I thought you said you had quit smoking.”
Bill—“Well, I've reached the first stage—I’ve quit buying.”

Freshman (looking over a musical program)—“I wonder who composed the intermission?”

Tramp—“Will you give a poor man a quarter for a bed?”
Lady—“Let's see the bed.”

Prof.—“What three words are used most often in this class?”
Dave Phlegar—“I don't know.”
Prof.—“Correct.”

In connection with the Chaff column, The Peanut Parcher wishes to announce the opening of its annual Beauty Contest. Each student will be allowed one vote. At present there are five men in this race to determine Davidson's ugliest man, and a hot race is expected. These contestants are: Dick McMillan, Vic Brown, “Snaggletooth” McCrary, Nappy Davis, and Irving Johnson. We feel that these men are all worthy of the distinction of being Davidson's ugliest men, and all are well-known on the campus. McMillan holds the school record for broken mirrors; Brown has long been recognized for having the nerve to appear in knickers with those legs of his; McCrary has been jilted oftener than any man in school; Davis is one of the best tiddledy-winks players on the campus; while Irving Johnson is the man who never made a good milkshake in his life. Besides this, Irving is being backed by Skit McConnell, the laziest man this side of Denver. All votes are to be turned in to the Peanut Parcher and the winner will be awarded a hand-embroidered pick-axe at the close of the contest. Pick your man and back him to the limit; everyone is eligible—even professors—and considerable rivalry is expected.

DAVIDSON ADMITTED TO FEDERATION OF COLLEGES
(Continued from page 1)
explain Student Government and the Honor System. Friday evening a trip was made to Trinity and N. C. State by bus, and Friday night a dance was given for the delegates in the college “gym.” The convention was occupied Saturday morning with a discussion on athletics, special attention being givenTo baseball, student managers, athletic council, coaching problems, and commercial athletics. The members went on record in favor of allowing college baseball players to play unorganized ball in the summer. This decision will be brought before the S. I. C., in an attempt to bring about a similar action on their part. Saturday evening the following officers were elected for the coming year: President, Tom Ballentine, University of Kentucky; Vice-President, Hoey, N. C. State; Secretary-Treasurer, Morton, V. P. I. The University of Florida at Gainesville was selected for the 1924 convention.

The Davidson delegates are decidedly enthusiastic over the results of this conference and hope to try out in the near future a number of the ideas brought forward, which they believe will be of immense profit to this school.

COMMITTEES DISCUSSED AT C. E. T.C. MEETING

A very interesting and instructive meeting of the C. E. Training Class was held on last Sunday afternoon. L. L. Deck led the song service and W. E. Milton was in charge of the program. The members voted to unite with the Volunteer Band in a joint sunrise prayer meeting on Easter morning. Four major committees of Christian Endeavor were fully discussed: the Lookout, Social, Missionary, and Prayer Meeting Committees. The group was divided into four teams, each team discussing a committee. The leaders of the four groups were: Hollingsworth, Purdy, Lynch, and Bowie. After a thorough study of these main committees, very interesting talks on the duties and importance of minor committees were made.

There are not so many after

Freshmen Coach Signs To Manage Abbeville

Coach Rawson Accepts Player-Manager Position With South Carolina Team

Coach C. W. Rawson, mentor of the Wildkitten teams of 1923-24, has signed up as manager of the Abbeville club in the Carolina league this season. Coach will report for duty on May 15th, not leaving Davidson until after the Freshman nine meets M. P. C. I. here on the 6th. As player-manager Coach Rawson will serve in a double capacity. He will in all probability direct his outfit from behind the plate, for in that position he has played stellar ball for the University of Georgia and various professional organizations. He was with the Columbia team of the South Atlantic league when it won the pennant in 1919 and defeated Atlanta in a post-season series. The work that Coach Rawson has done with the Freshman football and basketball teams shows his unquestionable ability as a leader and coach. And his success with the eleven and with the quintet is alone equaled by his good influence and popularity with the boys.

COLGATE TENNIS SHARKS

(Continued from page 1)

Gate man carried the hard-fought match 6-3, 4-6, 6-2. In the No. 2 singles Jim Trotter went down before B. J. Rockafellow, 6-2, 6-3. “Jim” waited for the fight to be brought to him and though he put up a valiant fight, his strokes failed to bear the sting that would have forced the Easterner to a loss. Staley on the contrary pounded the flannel sphere for all he was worth but managed to get only the second set out of his match with A. L. Devine, the Colgate captain; score, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3. Mac Beall found W. H. Story easy meat, running the younger lad into a 6-1, 6-2 loss. “Mac,” through his placements and slow drop, registered the only Red and Black win in the solo matches. Young and Rockafellow kept Price Staley on the defense of the first doubles encounter. The Wildcat duo fought every step of the way, both making wonderful recoveries, but the Colgate men played well together and won the match 6-1, 7-5. Mac Beall, teamed with Jim Trotter, outsteadied and outplayed Devine and H. P. Bromfield after losing the first set, 3-6, 10-8, 16-2. The visitors sent most of their shots at Jim Trotter and Jim made some returns that showed he had not lost his old power. This was the second meeting of Colgate’s Southern tour. The Red and White racketeers defeated Wake Forest 4-1, and after leaving Davidson take on Washington and Lee, University of Virginia, William and Mary, George Washington U., Navy, and Penn Military. They hope to come back again to Davidson next spring.

Irvin Johnson—“We've been selling these pills for 30 years and we've never had a complaint. What does that prove?”

Selser—“Dead men tell no tales.”

“Her niece is rather good looking, eh?”

“Don’t say ‘knees is,’ say ‘knees are.’”—Black and BlueJay.

BE A NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT with the Heacock Plan and earn a good income while learning; we show you how; begin actual work at once; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Newswriters Training Bureau, Buf-

WRIGLEY'S SUMMIT

After every meal it stimulates appetite and aids digestion. It makes your food do you more good. Note how that stuffy feeling after hearty eating.

Purity Package

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY