THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

PROMINENT ALUMNUS

Dr. Porter P. Vinson, who is on the staff of the famous Mayo Brothers Clinic, Rochester, Minn., has been on a clinical lecture tour through the United States. His itinerary consisted of the following cities, where he conducted clinics at the various hospitals: St. Louis, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Minneapolis, Columbia, and Charleston, S.C. On his way to Columbia and Charleston, Dr. Vinson stopped over at Davidson for a few days, visiting his mother here. The fact that Dr. Vinson is on the staff of the Mayo Brothers Clinic is in itself a signal honor, but to be chosen to tour the country giving lectures and conducting clinics is an unusual honor. Davidson is doubly proud of such a noble son.

Here and There

1866—Judge James E. Boyd, Federal Judge for the Western District of North Carolina, underwent an operation at the Wesley Long Hospital, in Greensboro, N.C., a few days ago.

1909—Rev. A. S. Maxwell was married on the 6th of December to Miss Mabel Davies, at Lavras, Minas, Brazil.

1910—George E. Wilson is owner and manager of the Wilson Motor Company, in Charlotte. The company handles Ford and Lincoln cars.

1912—George Howard, of the State Department of Education, has edited an interesting bulletin outlining a plan for the organization of the schools of Lincoln County. The name of the booklet is “A County-wide Plan for the Organization of the Schools of Lincoln County, N.C.”

1913—J. M. Gentry is a member of the staff of the Statesville (N.C.) High School.

1915—Lex Kluttz, who recently delivered an address at Davidson, has been on a lecture tour through North and South Carolina. He is at present spending a few days at his home in Chester, S.C.

1916—R. Gurdon Foster is a member of this year’s graduating class at the Atlanta Dental College, Atlanta, Ga.

1918—E. P. Childs, Jr., is now teaching at Fishburn Military Academy, Waynesboro, Va.

1919—Mr. and Mrs. R. Brookes Peters, Jr., announce the birth of a son, Robert Brookes Peters, III, March 14, 1924.

1921—Mr. and Mrs. J. M. Dunlap announce the birth of a son, “Possum” Junior, February 28, 1924.

1922—Walter I. Knox is now connected with the C. & O. Railway, at Huntington, W. Va. His address is 1117 Washington Ave.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Announcement was made that Dr. J. H. MacCracken, president of Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, had been secured to deliver the Commencement Address for the Class of '19.

Dr. T. W. Lingle returned from France the past week and delivered an address in Shearer Hall on March 14th. He used as his subject "Under Fire at Verdun." Dr. Lingle wore his overseas Y.M.C.A. uniform during the address.

The condition of Dr. W. J. Martin was reported as favorable following an operation for appendicitis. The operation took place in Salisbury on March 13th.

At a meeting of the student body held on March 12th, plans were laid for constructing a memorial to the 18 Davidson men who laid down their lives in the World War. Dr. J. M. MacConnell presented the plan, and Mr. Jackson and Coach Fetzer made short talks in favor of the proposal. Pledges were taken by Mr. Jackson, who was appointed treasurer for the movement. There was some discussion as to whether the memorial should be in the form of a gate at the entrance to the campus, or a swimming pool to be in connection with the new gym.

Mr. Harvey Branseomb, a “Y” Secretary, of Atlanta, was on the Hill during the weekend. He addressed the "Y" Forum, and also held personal conferences with students in regard to Life Service.

The Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies were the only societies then in existence. Their programs in full for the Saturday night (the meeting time of both), and a full report of the last meeting of the societies were given an entire column. “Who's Who on Our Service Flag” gave short resumes of the work in France of Lieut.-Col. Thomas D. Osborne, Charlotte, Davidson '01, and Don Everett Scott, of Graham, the class of '07.

The overseas men who had returned to the Hill to resume their studies were rejoicing over receiving a sixty dollar bonus recently.

This progressive age constantly discovers a better way of doing things—always improves—develops processes that excel. Our tailors at Fashion Park, for instance, have developed the Turole tailoring treatment—a method of making “soft” clothing possessing all the fine lines that...Well-groomed men demand. ~ There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things issued by the Government. Corporal Louis E. Johnston, who was a resident of Davidson, was cited by Overseas Military Reports for extraordinary bravery. The incident as recorded happened near Mazinghden, France, October 18-19, 1918, when Corporal Johnston’s platoon was separated from the battalion. Johnston proceeded along an unfamiliar road under heavy fire and established a liaison between his platoon and the main detachment.

The North Carolina Student Volunteer Convention was held at Guilford College, March 14-16. Twenty Davidsonians who attended the convention reported a great meeting. They all praised the hospitality of Turole is pliant—has easy, comfortable lines—conforms to the wearer’s action or in-action—is thoroughly distinguished. The Turole tailoring treatment is available in a series of interesting style developments—we’re making a special exhibit of them now. SFIRD'S

Doctor Richards took his text last Sunday from Mark 1:1, and explained it as symbolic of the Presbyterian Progressive Program, especially in regard to Stewardship. He showed how covetousness is seen all through the Bible and has always been punished more terribly than any other crime and that from Bible times until now the sin of covetousness has been ruining men. He asked this question, “Do you kill a child when he starves because you failed to donate a few dollars?” “Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.”

ON LECTURE TOUR

Shearer Hall is on a direct ridge, the water falling from its east roof finds its way into the Yadkin River, the water from the west roof flows into the Catawba. Davidson used to have a bicycle club, many of the old “Quips and Cranks” have a section for this club in them, and even one college report to Fayetteville Presbytery describing the vicinity of the college mentions the fact, that for eight months of the year the roads around Davidson were inviting to bicyclists.

In the history of the class of '08 mention was made of the students “snapping classes” and as a result having to make up “math,” etc. In 1807 the baseball team yell was: Tekah, Kekah, Zekah Za Hullabaloo, Bolo, Bola, DG, B. C., Rah! Rah! Rah! In the College Lexicon, in Quips and Cranks, 1900, some Davidson expressions and their meanings were given for use, as follows:

Blow—To exhale hot air.
Shoot—“he shot Wooly dead.” (Sometimes used in the other sense; as, “Wooly shot him dead.” This use is rare, however.)
Spiel—To talk.
Stooger—Slang for stud.
Zip—A thick, black, indigestible fluid. The main-stay at the Vatican.
Vatican—The place where zip and biscuits are served three times daily.

Davidson College was the first college on record that secured a Legislature bill against the sale of intoxicating liquors. Quips and Cranks of 1916 was dedicated to Woodrow Wilson.

Miss Letitia Currie entertained a few friends last Friday night, at a Mah Jong party. This party was given in honor of Miss Celista Hood and her visitor Miss Dewall, of Cervea, N.C., who spent the week-end with Miss Hood's parents, Dr. and Mrs. Hood, at St. Mary's College. They are students.

FRESHMEN NUMEROUS AT INFIRMARY DURING WEEK

The members of the Freshman Class have been the most frequent patronizers of the infirmary during the past week. The Junior Class was not represented at all. Those registering last week were: McBride, Cousar, W. T. Davis, McLeod, T. M. Neel, R. G. Faucette, R. S. Matthews, R. S. Poteat, T. E. Gray, and William Rice.

Wanted—Second-hand tennis racquet. N. C. McLeod, 15 South Barracks.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchanging in good faith merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at INSURANCE DEPARTMENT Independence Trust Co. Phone 3490