THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

CAPTAIN BOUSHEE BASEBALL CAPTAIN STREIBICH TRACK

Freshmen Athletes To Receive Monograms Soon

D. C. to be Awarded to First Year Men Making Teams in Major Sports

At a meeting of the officers of the Athletic Association last Monday, it was decided that the Freshmen making the team in either of the four major sports, football, basketball, baseball, and track, would be awarded a monogram, a four-inch D. C. This should be a great incentive to the first-year men to work hard for places on the teams. It will be an award for hard work and will show the Freshmen that their work is appreciated. The other colleges having the first-year rule all have some way to recognize the Freshman teams, and it is proper that Davidson should take this step.

Prof. and Mrs. Lingle attended the funeral of Mrs. Carrigan, Prof. Lingle’s first cousin, last Sunday, at Thyatira Church.

For High Class PRINTING of every description + “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

THE CAMBRIDGE

For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of the loose-cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button. A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE

Yate-Brown Co. CHARLOTTE BROWN & McCLAIN Local Agents

The Dope Fiend By W. F. Galloway

Chicago, New York, Boston, and Davidson all getting an early start. The wall around the campus is going to be fine to keep the Wildcats in. New item for the four columns—Use them as gate-posts.

Seventy Fresh out for baseball at Trinity. Fifty Varsity out at U.N.C. Verily, verily, Spring is here. Greensboro got one hit Saturday—a single in the first inning, and won a 6-5 game. Something rotten in Denmark—or in Thomasville. Captain Striebich got a bad ankle in track last week. “Low” says he hopes to be back on the track by the first meet. Mercer started on a tour of Florida yesterday. Collegiate baseball starting early. Congratulations “Bub.” Let's take a big trip next year. Trot out the shekels and take the Cats sight-seeing. Bill Murray goes to the dance at Gastonia to get in training for the marathon at the Olympic. Bevo Davis has the latest bright idea. He turns on the spigot in his room, and, by gum, when he comes back from supper he has a swimming pool. “Buck” Shaw says he is going to run the 880 this year. Sorry, Nappy. Captain Cobb is the latest thing at Carolina. We hand it to Cobb. He's a good man. From now to October the Observer will swarm with Manager Kennedy and his little Hornets. Charlotte won last year, but ask Rube Curdts about Asheville this time. He knows. How about a field day—with a barbecue and girls and fire and cats and winnies—and a holiday. In all seriousness, why not a field day? For the winner in the intra-dormitory league at Carolina, the head of the laundry gave a feed. All right, Helper, help us.

OUR TEAM

Catcher—Quick. Pitcher—Out. 1st Base—Okey Allison. 2nd Base—O. S. Allison. 3rd Base—Johnson Allison. Short Stop—Love. R. Field—Albert Hillhouse. C. Field—Goofy Hillhouse. L. Field—Miller Hillhouse. Waterboy—Littlejohn. Bathboy—Jake Leonard. Trainer—Charlie.

Note—Hillhouse gathers ‘em in. He is the only choice of the S. C. for the all-star nine.

BRUCE CURRY (Continued from page 1)

work, and how? Some passages, when considered in the light of these questions, show a meaning which has seemed hidden before, and throw a much-needed light on some of our present-day questions. Mr. Curry sees Christianity as standing for at least five things, some of which we have almost lost today. These are: Spiritual over against material, in viewpoint, in philosophy, and in reliance; way of forgiveness, peace, unity, and oneness with God; economic and political justice; redemption of the body—gifts of the Spirit. Have we reached the place where there must be another Reformation as in the time of Luther? Can the Church be brought back to the true religion of Christ, or will the Reformer again have to break with the Church? These are thought-provoking questions, at least.

illuminated and empowered personality; social,

BASKETBALL MANAGER

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Association, R. W. Oeland, of Spartanburg, S. C., was elected manager of basketball for 1924-25. Bub managed the Freshman team, which won the State championship, this year. The three assistants, J. A. Lake, A. D. Malloy, and Oeland, were candidates for the job. On the first ballot, Oeland received a winning majority.

Stanley Shows Power Of Muscular Control

Variety Features Entertainment by Muscular Control Expert

“Eleven and a half inches chest expansion with breath exhaled, stretch neck six inches and legs 14 inches beyond normal,” said S. L. Stanley, physical training instructor and vaudeville performer, and proceeded to demonstrate it. Mr. Stanley is making a tour of the colleges of the country and kindly consented to give his lecture and exhibition for the benefit of the R. O. T. C., in Shearer Hall. There were no charges but a voluntary contribution was given in return for his services. Mr. Stanley has developed himself from a sickly child at the age of 12 to his present physical state by a method initiated and perfected by himself. He performs 43 feats, any threeof which he challenges any man in the world to surpass. His first remarkable feat was a demonstration of muscular control of the neck. He caused his neck to merge so completely that it rested on his shoulders and then stretched it six inches. He could throw practically every joint in his body out of joint, including hip, shoulder, wrist, and vertebrae of the spinal column. Demonstrating muscular control of the limbs, Mr. Stanley compared reaches with Captain Hearn, and in spite of the fact that the Captain had 12 inches on him normally, he would not give up until his fingertips extended beyond the Captain’s. “Put your mind on it” was his slogan. “What's the use to move your muscles if you don't know it? You'll be a flabby automaton. Quit taking pills for aches and pains and give the old stomach some exercise besides digestion.” A laugh went up when in response to his call for a belt that he could not break with his abdominal muscles, Logan Lovelace tendered an exaggerated elephant collar about three inches across. All unconcerned, he punched a hole for the buckle by pressure across his waist and burst it without apparent effort. At least one man had another sort of laugh then. It is no longer a mystery how Samson did it nor why Stanley has long hair. From this, he went on to show how he could control the pulse in his arm at will, not to mention lifting “Buffalo” McKinnon’s 260 pounds and worming away from a double body scissors by Lindamood and Patterson, Davidson's heavyweight wrestlers. Mr. Stanley is of average height and weighs only 142 pounds. “You don’t need big men,” he says. “You need men with proper muscular development. Put your mind on it. You don’t need a gymnasium. A broomstick is as good as a hundred-pound dumbbell if you put your mind on it and put a hundred pounds worth of effort behind it.”

Freshmen Class Will Finish Athletic Field

Class Votes to Complete Work on Freshman Field

At a recent meeting of the Freshman class, it was unanimously voted to complete the work on the athletic field just in the rear of the main field. There is only a small stretch of land running the entire length of the field that was left unfinished on account of a lack of funds. Coach Younger, seeing it would be impossible to secure any money to complete the field, as a last resort called on the Freshmen and found them willing, every man voting to finish the field. Although it is only a small section, to have a contractor do it would require several hundred dollars, and the members of the present Freshman class will enable them in about an hour of good hard work from each man, to put the field in decent shape. No grading or skilled labor will be required since there is nothing but sticks and small brush to be removed. The class has been divided into four sections according to alphabetical order. The first group, approximately one-fourth of the entire class, will begin work Monday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock. Tuesday afternoon the next group will work the same amount of time, and so on. It is hoped to have the work finished by Thursday afternoon. No one in the class will be excused except those who actually take part in baseball or track. Since there are only a comparatively few going out for these sports, there is no doubt but that there will be plenty of Freshmen on hand Monday to begin the work.

Over One Hundred Men Enter Tennis Tourney

Play Begins Friday and Saturday to Decide Men to Complete Team

T. F. Staley, acting for the Varsity tennis team, has arranged one of the most extravagant tennis tournaments ever attempted at Davidson, and announces that the first rounds of the tournament will be held either Friday afternoon or Saturday. Over a hundred men have signed up to take part in the tournament, a great increase over the number participating in a similar tournament last spring. A tournament will be run in the three upper classes to determine a “scrub team,” while a team representing the Freshman class will be chosen from the Freshmen players by an elimination tournament. These two teams, a faculty team, and the regular Varsity squad will then enter the main tourney to decide the champions of the college. Plans for the contest are complete, and registrations are now being received. A fee of 35 cents is charged for registration. All interested candidates should apply to Staley at once.

Mrs. Emeline Barnes, mother of Mrs. B. C. Deal, died at Taylorsville a few days ago at the home of her son. Had Mrs. Barnes lived until April, she would have been 90 years of age.

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building