During the past June, Mr. George Bryan, '78, of Richmond, Va., received the degree of Litt.D. from Hampden-Sidney College. Rev.
Stafford M. Query, ’21, was ordained during the summer and installed as pastor at Peaks, Va. President Hollingsworth, ’90, resigned
from Mitchell College in June to take charge of a Presbyterian college for young ladies in Atlanta, Ga. Rev. T.
P. Johnston, ’14, accepted a call from the Presbyterian Church of Kingsport, Tenn. The marriage of Rev. R. H. Stone,
'18, to Miss Martha May Blackwell, of Quincy, Fla., took place on the eighteenth of June. Mr. Marion Murray, ’24,
was received under the care of Fayetteville Presbytery. He will go to the seminary this fall. Rev. C. H. Rowan,
'15, accepted a call from Ashpole Church during the summer. For the Fayetteville Presbytery meeting in June, Rev. J. F.
Meinus, ’11, was elected temporary clerk.

The Davidsonian has received notice of the following deaths that occurred during the past summer among our alumni:
- 1872—Rev. J. Y. Fair, D.D.
- 1872—Rev. Dugald Munroe.
- 1873—O. D. Davis.
- 1876—John R. Pharr.
- 1877—Rev. F. J. Brooke.
- 1880—Dr. Daniel Harvey Hill.
- 1883—Dr. William Alphonso Withers.
- 1884—C. A. Smith.

On July 31, 1924, Dr. Daniel Harvey Hill, one of Davidson’s most distinguished alumni, passed away at Blowing Rock, N.
C., where he had gone for his health. Dr. Hill was secretary of the North Carolina Historical Commission and former
president of N. C. State College. He was born at Davidson, N. C., in 1850, prepared for college at the
Military Institute at Charlotte, and graduated from Davidson in 1880. In 1885 he received the degree of Master of Arts
from Davidson and in 1905 the degree of Litt.D. In 1910 the University of North Carolina conferred on him the
degree of Doctor of Laws. Dr. Hill's father was president of the University and his grandfather was president of Davidson
College.

- '01—J. D. Baker, father of J. D. and T. S. Baker, was here with his family.
- '05—Rev. J. C. Story, father of the Story boys, visited on the campus last week.
- Ex-'13—W. I. Baker is re-entering college this fall.
- '15—J. W. P. Gilchrist, of Charlotte, who traveled in Europe last year, was on the hill this past week.
- '21—W. W. Carter, of Mount Airy, was here entering his brother for the 1924-'25 term.
- '21—J. R. Boulware, who is studying medicine at the University of Virginia, was here entering his brother last week.
- '22—Bob Knight was on the hill this week.
- '23—Paul Guile was here entering a brother in college.
- '23—J. P. Booth was on the hill last weekend.
- '23—Sam Davis was visiting on the campus for several days. He is selling tobacco with his father in Saint
Pauls, N.C.
- '23—Pat Crawford is whipping a football team into shape at the high school in Gastonia.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

LYNCH’S PHARMACY, INC.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St

CIGARS

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE NONE TOO SMALL

- '23—Bevo Davis was on the hill this week. He is going to study Botany for a Ph.D. at the
University of Chicago this winter.
- '24—C. E. Hodgin was on the hill. He is teaching English and History at Greenbrier Military Academy, Louisburg, W.Va.
- '24—Angus McBryde, Wiggs Bradford, and Chas. Faison are at the University of Pennsylvania.
- '24—Mason Field is principal and athletic coach at the high school in Hartwell, Ga.
- '23—A. M. Hurd is going to Oakdale, N. C., to take charge of the high school there.
- '24—Doe DeArmon is coaching and teaching at Lowell, N.C.
- '24—A. M. Oates is teaching English at Greenbrier Military Academy.
- '24—The following were on the hill: J. B. Sloan, Watt McCain, John Simpson, Jake Leonard, Don Chipman, A. C.
Keels, Charlie McCrary, Pat Crawford, Rube Curtis.
- '24—R. M. Carr attended the Freshman reception last Monday night. Speedy is traveling for the Yale Electric Co., of
Brooklyn, N. Y.
- '24—J. I. Smith spent a day or two here last weekend. He has returned from a trip through the
West.

GASTONIA WILL NOT PLAY CHARLOTTE BOYS
Spencer on Gastonia and high school will not clash this season on the gridiron, according to an announcement made today
by Manager Kendrick of the local squad. The first rainy spell of the season greeted the Gastonia high school football
candidates when they started practice on the South Chester Street vacant lot yesterday afternoon, Coach Pat Crawford choosing to put
his men through regular practice.workouts. Schools Manager Kendrick says that it is certain that his outfit will play the fast
Spencer high team this season, although the exact date is not certain. Lexington high wants a game. As Gastonia will
not play Charlotte in the opening game, September 20th, it is not probable that the locals will battle the Queen
City lads this season. The latter have their schedule complete and it would cause trouble to get in on their
playing card this late in the year. It is reported that Gastonia will go to Clover, S. C., Friday of
this week to play the high school eleven of that place in a practice game.

Phil Jackson, Roy Page, and Carroll Shelton, considered good players, are reported today as improved from their sickness and injuries.
Schneider is still out, the first stages of blood poisoning developing in his left foot. — Charlotte Observer.

Star golfers of the United States, Great Britain, Canada, and Panama, constituting the largest field ever entered, will compete for
the national amateur golf championship in the tournament which begins at the Merion Cricket Club, Ardmore, Pa., next Saturday and
continues for a week. Pairings for the qualifying round, announced tonight, show that the entries total 166. Ten British stars
who competed in the recent tournament for the Walker Cup are entered, as are four Canadians and the champion of
Panama. The ten Americans who helped the United States to retain the Walker Cup for another year will seek the
crown and some of them are among the eleven former holders of the amateur title who will compete, in addition
to the present champion, Max R. Marston, of Philadelphia. The list also includes three former holders of the open title,
half a dozen sectional champions, and numerous former sectional champions. — Charlotte Observer.

Tragic Conflagration Leaves Burnt Skeleton

A tragedy that shook Iredell County through width and breadth, and caused the good people of North Carolina to gasp
in awe, was enacted in Mooresville on the day of September 4th. It was the burning of a beautiful young
thing; her body was completely consumed, and the only remains of the happening was a scarred and twisted skeleton. The
catastrophe occurred in a smoky garage, and besides outside spectators, there were a number of Davidson boys vitally interested in
the victim of the tragedy, who stood sorrowfully by and watched the last remains of their once close companion go
up in the proverbial thin smoke. These young mourners were Eustace Lingle, Bob Mitchell, Nick Sappenfeld, and Red Anderson. The
unhappy victim of fate was Miss Lizzie Ford, who had so graciously carried the boys on their journey to Mooresville
from Davidson, and who had "given up the ghost," leaving them friendless in a strange and hostile town.

Through some unforeseen circumstance, a tiny bit of gasoline was allowed to trickle down the exhaust pipe, and due to
the extreme temperature of the latter, combustion resulted. The easily pictured conclusion of the drama might be tragic. To date,
the responsibility for the cremation has not been fixed on any one of the above-named youths, but authorities state that
arrest and indictment may be expected at any moment. Until then, the entire county awaits with interest the outcome of
the investigation.

COUNTY HIGH SCHOOL FACILITIES LACKING

Taking cognizance of complaints from isolated sections of several counties that high school facilities are not available, State Superintendent of
Public Instruction A. T. Allen today addressed a letter to county school authorities notifying them that provision must be made
for every qualified child to have at least six months of high school instruction a year. Hundreds of school children
have foregone finishing further work after grammar grades because they live in remote sections of their counties, where facilities for
higher instruction are lacking. Consolidation is suggested by Mr. Allen as the most effective means of providing educational advantages, after
reference had been made to the consolidated school code of 1923, which requires development of opportunities for higher instruction. —
Charlotte Observer.

Tennis, Racquet, Golf Clubs in your own home. Independence Trust Company Insurance Department McAlister Carson, Manager

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, property anywhere other than having it stored. Write or see Phone 3940

BELK CHARLOTTE

Special Values Being Offered in

Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits

Wide Bottom Pants in one or two-piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Style Bell Bottom Pants in Light, Medium, and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95

Trade With Us and Save Money

BELK BROS. CHARLOTTE

CENTRAL Dyeing and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Largest and Oldest Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine in Connection

8 E. Trade St. HAT SHOP Pressing Best CHARLOTTE
