2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

WILDCATS | MOTHER ARRIORS | SPIDERS IN SATURDAY | Richmond Spiders Meet The Wildcats

Rawson Puts Yearlings Into Action Tomorrow

Central Cafeteria
"On the Square"
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building
The Old Stand

CIGARS SANDWICHES
CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service

W. G. SHIELDS
College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Red and Black Machine Game at Winston-Salem Will be Clash of Fighting Teams—Captain Davis’ Town

By Don Wharton

The Wildcats scored almost as many points in the last half of the game Saturday as the Presbyterians scored in the preceding five years. All reports from the camp of the University of Richmond “Spiders” state that the eleven from there is working early and late in the hope of defeating the Wildcats at Winston-Salem next Saturday afternoon.

And Jim Hendrix gained almost three times as much ground from scrimmage on McCormick Field as the entire South Carolina backfield. Wick Black bucked the line for five more yards.

Last Saturday at Blacksburg, Va., the fighting little team from Richmond held the strong V. P. I. team to four touchdowns, showing that they have the old fight in them, and that Davidson is going to have to “put out” to get the upper hand with them. The game will be played in the Twin City. This is the first game that Davidson has had scheduled at Winston-Salem in several years, and as it is a Davidson town, many rooters are expected to be out to help the Wildcats tie the game up in tip-top style.

The Richmond Spiders are on the Wildcat fare for the third course which will be served at Winston-Salem, Saturday.

The officials for the game are: Bocock (Georgetown), referee; Perry (Sewanee), umpire; and Alexander (Carolina), head-linesman.

The probable line-up will be:

Richmond Position Davidson
Sanford ---------------- Davis (C)
Left end
Newcomb --------------- Sappenfield
Left tackle
Miller ------------------ Laird
Left guard
B. Minter --------------- Vaillee
Center
Bentley ----------------- Summers
Right guard
Reams (C) -------------- Bohanon
Right tackle
Witt -------------------- Sapp
Right end
Quarterback
Left half
Right half
Fullback

Captain Nappy Davis will return to his home city for the first time since the famous Carolina 0-0 tie in 1921. If Nappy goes this week-end like he did against the South Carolinians at Asheville, the “old home folks will sorta” hate to see him put the moleskins by.

And Cicero Sapp will make his initial collegiate bow to the same crowd. Winston-Salem is a good Davidson town and a big crowd is expected.

Heavy Rain Sends Track Squad Into Gymnasium

Fall Cross-Country Team Working for Cup—Tilson and Gracey Head Men

Track practice has gotten under way and an enthusiastic bunch of 25 or 30 men are reporting each afternoon for the preliminary workouts. Bad weather is detaining the progress of the squad and nothing definite can be said as to their strength. The gymnasium is being used for indoor practice and the boys will all be in form when the weather opens up so that they can hit the cinders.

There are only four letter men back this year but a goodly number of upper-classmen are out to help fill in the gaps. There are many aspirant Freshmen out who are showing up well in the dashes, high jumps, hurdles, javelin throws, etc. A better idea of their ability will be determined as fall practice goes on.

Gudger, Webb, McConnell and Williford are strong contenders for the cross-country teams. Others are showing that they have something to say about it and it is unknown who will represent Davidson at Chapel Hill or Raleigh this fall.

Arrangements are being made for meets next spring by Manager Jim Patton, who is dickering with Trinity, Wake Forest, Roanoke, V. P. I. and University of South Carolina for meets. This will give the team plenty to work for, having five meets besides the state meet.

We wouldn't be surprised to see one or two Greensboro citizens over to watch.Jim Hendrix. If the Asheville game is broadcasted, the Richmond team will do the majority of the watching, though. Manager McAlister is from Greensboro also. One of the neatest plays of the game at Asheville was Pinkney’s long dive for a punt about to roll over the goal line for a touchback. This could hardly equal his one-handed catch of a P. C. pass. E. Wick Black also snagged a pass, but it was the Black drive that time after time bucked the ball for first downs and once for a touchdown. Not once did he fail when called on.

It looked like the “Red-Headed League” when Coach Tex Tilson sent Red McComb and Red Anderson into the game and Red Baker came out. The Associated Press spoke a few good words about Count Leggette’s punting; all of which we seconded. Some of the credit for this is due to Joe McConnell’s true passing. He got his call for the trip only a few minutes before the squad entrained, but he was “right there with the goods.”

You couldn't make the Asheville sport writers believe that Tom Baker was playing his second game at tackle. He was in every play and downed Warner several times in his tracks as he caught a punt. Warner would go very good on any squad in this section.

Vance and Boggs will rarely get any credit, but it’s the line interference that makes those end-runs go. Without a doubt, they were the two hardest-worked men on the field. Sappenfield made several brilliant returns of punts, but someone was offside; Lincoln made a touchdown, but someone was called offside. And with the ball inside P. C.’s five-yard line, a P. C. back called signals off.

Line-up Against Monroe Highs for Initial Contest of Heavy Schedule — Prospect Pleasing

Coach Clarence Rawson will send his Freshman team against the strong Monroe High School team tomorrow for the initial contest of the Davidson Yearling schedule for 1924. After about four weeks of practice, the Freshman squad is gradually taking the form of a first-class fighting machine. The schedule for 1924 is almost identically the same as that of the past season, except that a game here with Furman has been substituted for the game with the University of South Carolina first-year men. The Furman rats are the only yearlings that will invade Davidson this autumn. Other games scheduled for the Davidson Wildkittens are: P. C. Freshmen, at Rock Hill, S. C.; N. C. State Freshmen, at Pinehurst; Clemson Freshmen, at Greenville, S. C.; and a game on Armistice Day with the Oak Ridge team, at Statesville.

Last year, the Fresh squad opened the season with a 7-0 victory over Charlotte Highs, who later became state champions. Saturday, the Monroe aggregation was defeated by the Charlotte boys 13-0. The game will be played in Monroe, Friday. Monroe will no doubt be greatly improved by then, and the Freshmen will have a good fight for an opener of their hard schedule.

The Freshmen are to date divided into two squads, Coach Rawson having charge of the first of about 22 men, while Van Sant, former North Carolina State player, is coaching the second squad of about 35 men. The material is slightly better than that of last season and much heavier. Several all-state men of the different Southern States are among the bunch. Due to the scarcity of dry land during the past week, the squad has been unable to do much effective work, and a “line” on the team is a fairly indefinite matter. Melton and Richie on the line along with Grey, Wilson, Nesbit, McMillan, and Harrison in the backfield are showing the greatest form.

Following is the probable line-up of the two teams that will meet Friday. Davidson names are followed by their former homes.

Davidson. Position. Monroe.
Melton (Decatur, Ga.) -- -- -- -- Snyder Left end
Richie (Concord) -- -- -- -- -- -- Corrett Left tackle

Though losing the opening game to State by two touchdowns, Trinity had the Engineers baffled with Howard Jones’ famous shift. Jones says, “Watch us in 1925.” It wouldn't be a bad idea to watch them the last game in 1924.

Carolina Years” “Wake Forest Beats for the First Time in 35 headline Sunday. Davidson will meet Carolina here for the first time in 25 years, when the two teams meet on Homecoming Day, November 15th.

In the last Davidson-Richmond game in 1921, the score was 14-0, the Spiders leading, in the last half with two minutes and 30 seconds to play. Richmond papers were out announcing the local victory. But Davidson came back with two touchdowns and tied the score by kicking both goals. Hendrix, Davis, and McAlister are the only men here now who were on that Red and Black team.

On to Winston-Salem. (Continued on page 6)

MYERS Hardware Co.
Sporting Goods
Athletic Supplies
Charlotte, North Carolina

Room for a Few More
Maxwell-Chambers Hotel:
Good Board, $24.00 Per Month
J. D. LAWS, Student Mgr.
204 Watts

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
“U-DRIVE’MS”

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description —
“Jam-Up”
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

When You Need Candy See Us
Wholesale
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.