FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 24, 1924

Davidson Wins in Holiday Clash With Carolina 7-6

JUNIOR WEEK Fulfills All PROMISES of FUN
Crowds In Arena Turn Thumbs Up For Combats of Bold Gladiatorial Warriors

The Circus Romanus, as climax to Be Speaking, blazed forth Saturday night in all its ancient pomp and glory not
in the historic Coliseum but in the Gym, Davidson College. Nor was it Claudius who oversaw the lavish celebration but
one Martin, the chairman of the Speaking committee. From the moment when Socrates stepped forth upon the boards until the
time when Cleopatra dropped the last veil in her languorous dance, the spectacle was one of beauty, mirth, and interest.
A spirit of jollity equalling the Appian Way at its merriest pervaded the spectacle.

Columns Transform Gym
As the guests of ’25 entered the Gym through an archway crowned with an electric “Welcome” in red and black,
they found the floor banked with seats rising toward the rear of the hall. A red glow, as from Rome’s
myriad torches, gave way at the front to a brighter blaze illuminating a raised stage flanked on either side by
Caesar's pavilion. In prologue to the Emperor's pageant, noble Socrates, otherwise Piggy Martin, brought forth Noah Webster's trusty textbook and
held session in the classics. His students, who read orations for the edification of the plebians, were Rolandus Parkerus and
Studio Trawickus.

All Hail to Caesar!
A fanfare of trumpets pealed forth and Caesar Augustus, Thomas Barr, and his queen, fair Cleopatra or W. B. Sloan
mounted the throne. The herald and trumpeter, J. H. Patton, strode to the front and announced for the Emperor’s delight
“Horatius at the Gate.” This warrior was followed by the far-famed Spartacus, come to make an address to the gladiators.
These, W. I. Howell and A. S. Farnsworth, fought and bled for country and spectators. Noble Caesar then called for
his court musicians. Patton led out Joe and Foster Earnest and Liston Elkins clad in the latest Finchley togas. The
selections from their stringed instruments pleased the crowd greatly. Caesar spared their necks. A thirst for blood that might have
filled (Continued on page 7)

Fresh Debaters Split In Triangular Debates
Carolina Defeated at Davidson While Wake Forest Gets Judges Decision There

On Tuesday evening, April 15th, the triangular series of Freshman intercollegiate debates among Davidson, Carolina, and Wake Forest took place.
Carolina debated Davidson at Davidson, Davidson debated Wake Forest at Wake Forest, and Wake Forest debated Carolina at Carolina. The
subject of these debates was: Resolved, That the Philippines should be granted their complete and immediate independence. Out of the
decisions of the nine judges, Davidson received four, Carolina received three, and Wake Forest received two. Davidson's negative team against
Wake Forest was the only negative team which received a single vote.

At Davidson, the local team, composed of D. H. Stewart, W. H. Branch, and C. W. Williams, spoke on the
affirmative side of the question, against Carolina’s team, G. A. Bozwell, T. E. Clemmons, and R. H. Greenwood. The three
main points of the affirmative were: that there is a stable government in the Philippines; that the Filipinos are capable
of establishing their economic and political position in the society of nations; (Continued on page 8)

Five New Men To Be Initiated By Phi Beta Kappa
At the spring initiation of Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary fraternity at Davidson College, to be held on Friday, May
18th, five men, who have received bids from the local chapter, will be initiated. These men, who are among the
prominent men and the leaders on the Hill, are J. H. Davis, W. Z. Bradford, E. D. Brown, W. F.
Gallaway, Jr., and R. R. Jones. The Gamma of North Carolina Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was installed at Davidson
in the fall of 1923. It is one of the foremost of college honors offered by Davidson College. Only a
small percentage of the graduating Senior class who are high rank men in scholastic, as well as campus activities, are
eligible for membership. (Continued on page 8)

FRANK ALFORD, C.
Frank caught a pretty game against Carolina, playing his position like a veteran. He can play anywhere on the team.

CAPTAIN E. E. BOUSHEE
Wilmington, N. C.
Bush led the Wildcats to victory against Carolina Monday, scoring three of the seven runs.

Benton Wharton Wins In Junior Oratorical Meet
All of the Speeches Were Well-Finished and Logical, Showing Effect of World Problems

D. Benton Wharton, of the Metrophilian Literary Society, won last Thursday night in a contest in which six of the
best Junior speeches ever given were delivered by six selected members of the Junior class. The contest was featured by
excellence on the part of each speaker. The decision of the judges was close as regards each speaker of the
evening. Professor Erwin presided and W. L. Hodgin rendered a piano prelude and interlude. The speakers in order with their
subjects were as follows: J. M. Carr—TheSpirit of the L. B. Bibbs—Noblesse Oblige. A. C. Ray—The Passing of the Caliphate.
F. C. Hopkins—Brotherhood. D. B. Wharton—America’s Malady. A. M. Martin—The Best for Test. Wharton, speaking fifth, pointed out forcefully as
the American malady, superficiality. We do not realize how much we are in the clutches, he said, in brief, of
this dread monster, superficiality. We say we have thoughts, but our thoughts are the borrowed thoughts and conventions of others;
we say we have ideals, but they are not our own, but just some coined ideas of dead men. Instead
of choosing the only clear path of progress, the path of work, with a plain prospective and in the light
of the principles of Christ, we choose superficiality.

Wildcats Shake Off Jinx and Trounce Carolina in Fast Game at Gastonia

Sion Alford's sizzling grounder over the keystone with two out in the ninth drove in the tying and winning runs
and gave the Wildcats a 7-6 victory over the Tar Heels at Gastonia. The victory, which is the first from
Carolina on the diamond since 1921, broke the Wildcats’ losing streak of six games and gave Bill Fetzer’s club their
first setback of the season.

Play Features Third Night Of Junior Speaking

Friday, the third night of the Junior Speaking program, was taken up with a presentation by the Dramatic Club, and
a concert by the Glee Club. Despite the fact that the seemingly typical Junior Speaking weather made the night a
bad one for such a performance, Shearer Hall held a packed house to witness the abilities of these organizations. The
evening's entertainment was opened at 8:00 o'clock with a number of scores by the Symphony Orchestra. This orchestra was a
part of the Glee Club troupe in its tour of last fall, and had earned a name for itself and
its music. Its performance of Friday earned its name, and was a feature of the musical presentations of the evening.

(Continued on page 5)

SION ALFORD, SS. Chipley, Fla.

Sion won the Carolina game with his timely bingle in the ninth. He hits them in the pinch.

Ferebee Pitches Well

Ferebee, who started the game for Carolina, allowed only two hits in five innings, while his teammates were piling up
a three-run lead. With an apparently safe lead, Ferebee was taken out and Moore, Poyner, and Coltrane, who followed, were
ineffective. Coltrane, who faced the last two batters, was responsible for losing the game.

With the score standing 3-2 in Carolina's favor, Davidson staged a rally in the eighth, scoring three runs on four
singles and a sacrifice. In Carolina's half, Poyner and McDonald singled and Coffee seemingly put the game on ice with
a drive over the right field wall. Davidson's two-run lead was gone and the Tar Heels were on the long
end of a 6-5 score. The stage was set for the final scene.

Won in the Ninth Frame

Covington knocked a hot one to third to start the final inning but was out at first. Smith lined out
a clean single to left center. Frank Alford struck out, but Poyner was wild and walked Boushee and Laird, filling
the bases. Here Fetzer yanked Poyner and sent in Coltrane. Sion Alford waited on a couple and then slashed a
hot grounder over second base, scoring Smith and Boushee. Vance hit a long fly to center for the final out.

Carolina made a final bid for the game in the last half. Dodderer grounded out to second. Johnson singled to
left and Marrow threw wild to second. Johnson started for second, but was out when Simpson recovered.

(Continued on page 8)

Trinity Trims Davidson In Annual Debate

Little, Wharton, and Walthall Put Forth Strong Argument but Lose to Rivals

Trinity defeated Davidson in the second annual intercollegiate debate between the two institutions, at Craven Memorial Hall, Trinity College, Durham,
N. C., Monday evening, April 14th. The first debate was a win for Davidson, while Trinity won the second by
a four to one decision of the judges.

Opening the argument of the affirmative, L. C. Little, of Davidson, defended the query, Resolved, That France is justified in
her occupation of the Ruhr. He devoted his time to the legal issues at stake, holding himself strictly to the
Treaty of Versailles, and arguing that by the express terms of that treaty, the occupation itself was legally justified.

W. S. Blakeney, of Trinity, first negative, assailed the occupation of the Ruhr as illegal, and so unjustifiable both by
the terms of the Treaty of Versailles and by the sanctions of international law and the rulings of The Hague
Tribunal. Continuing the affirmative, D. B. Wharton pointed out that France had justifiable reasons for her actions.

(Continued on page 7)
