THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

FIVE STRAIGHT GAMES WON

FIVE HARD CONTESTS APPROACHING

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra

Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

The Old Stand
CIGARS
SANDWICHES
CIGARETTES
CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics
$40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Sophs Beat Seniors to Lead Class Basketball
After Holding “Twenty-seven” in First Period, Senior Quint Loses 29-14

The Kick-Off
By Don Wharton

Should Davidson win the Furman University game, the record of 1917, when Bill Fetzer’s “lightweight champions of the world” won six straight games—from V. M. I., Furman, Auburn, Wake Forest, Wofford, and Clemson—will be tied.

Overwhelming the Senior aggregation on last Tuesday night to the decisive count of 29-14, the strong Sophomore aggregation advanced one notch nearer championship honors in the class basketball tournament. The game Saturday showed that Davidson, Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson have done a big work in super passing and brilliant basketing. The superior passing and brilliant basketing of the Sophs seemed to almost bewilder the boys of '25.

Price, for the Seniors, and all the Soph guards played a consistent game, but the outstanding star of the contest was Calhoun, the elusive left forward of the Soph aggregation, who rolled up a grand total of 16 points—more than the combined total of his opponents. Summary:

Seniors (14) Position Sophomores (29)
Matthews (0) Right forward Faucette (4)
Lindley (5) Left forward Calhoun (16)
Trotter (2) Center Anderson (7)
Price (7) Right guard Simpson (0)
Wharton (0) Left guard Goodykoontz (1)

Substitutes: Seniors, Oeland; Sophs, Keerans, Kaiser.

When the Virginia Tech stars arrived here in September, 1923, they found only five regulars around which to build the team. With the problem of creating an entirely new line and rebuilding the backfield, all of very mediocre material, the two coaches seemed to have taken on a hopeless task. Last year the results were slow in coming. At times the student body was greatly depressed. They saw no light ahead. The Wildcat mentors kept on plugging away. Spring practice in Black’s cow pasture under Tex Tilson at times showed far from encouraging prospects.

Now one sees the results. Already as many games have been won as in 1922 and 1923 combined. The 45-0 score over Lenoir was the biggest since back in 1921.

SCHEDULE TIGER-WILDCAT CONTEST FOR CHARLOTTE

Announcement that the Davidson-Clemson game will be played in Charlotte on November 8th, instead of Rock Hill, S. C., as originally rumored on the campus, pleased everyone, since this makes the game virtually a home one, and will allow every student to attend. No other college games of any size will be played in Charlotte this year so the authorities are promised a record-breaking crowd at that time. And most of the crowd will be Davidson rooters, which together with the students and college band, will be a decided asset and help to the Wildcat team.

Rock Hill and Charlotte have both been pulling strongly for this game, each presenting fine offers to the authorities in charge of selecting the place. In the final showdown, Charlotte made the best offer and although Rock Hill has always turned out good crowds at Davidson games played there, it was thought that Charlotte would furnish a larger crowd due to its larger population to draw from.

Much interest is being developed in this game and being a home game the Wildcats are going into it with a determination to get revenge and victory for the defeat administered to them by Clemson last year.

If Coach Rawson gets as much out of his Freshman material this year as he did in comparison with the little squad of last fall, there'll be some real material for the Varsity coaches next fall. It’s a wonderful field they have down in the millionaire’s playground. However, the Davidson squad got a little accustomed to that treatment in the Battery Park at Asheville.

Trinity's two touchdown margin over the Richmond Spiders raised the standing of Jones’ club somewhat. The standing of the North Carolina foot-Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Ball teams, and Clemson and Furman, of South Carolina, is as follows:

OLD DOMINION NETMEN | Opp. TO PLAY DAVIDSON TEAM
Davidson -- -- 5 0 88 3
Wake Forest -- -- 2 1 17 48
Carolina -- -- -- 2 2 22 34
Trinity -- -- -- 2 2 47 26
State -- -- -- -- 1 3 14 71
Lenoir -- -- -- -- 2
Guilford -- -- -- 0 2 6 58
Elon -- -- -- -- 0 4 0 122
Clemson -- -- -- 2 9 25 74
Furman -- -- -- 1 3 14 7

The Davidson points have been scored as follows:
Touch- Field Try
Player Downs Goals Points Total
Black -- -- -- -- 
Hendrix -- -- -- -- 
Covington -- -- -- -- 
Wells -- -- -- -- 
Sappenfield -- -- -- -- 
Boggs -- -- -- -- 
Hewlett -- -- -- -- 
Bohannon -- -- -- -- 
Sapp -- -- -- -- 
Hunt -- -- -- -- 
Total -- 25 25 12 84

*Warner (P. C.) and Byrd (Elon) scored

Red Johnston and Johnny Schenk will officiate at the Fresh game with Clemson this without a doubt.

Rawson’s Yearlings Meet Clemson Here Tomorrow, After Three Straight Wins
Davidson First-year Men Encounter Best Team of South Carolina

The Wildkittens, their appetites only partially appeased by the blood of Monroe, Wingate, and P. C., are ready and eager for their battle with the Clemson Tiger Cubs next Friday. The game will be played either here or in Charlotte. The Fresh have given undeniable evidence that they are a bloodthirsty crew. Their victory over the strong P. C. Freshmen, rated as the best in South Carolina, proved it. Following the example set by their big brothers, the future Wildcats have, in the three games already played, kept their goal uncrossed.

The Clemson Yearlings are also credited with having a lively team. With a 170-pound line, a very fast backfield, and an abundance of new plays and shifts, they present a very formidable appearance. In their game with the South Carolina Freshmen Saturday, they sprung a surprise in the last quarter when, after trailing for three periods, they uncorked a series of plays and shifts that swept the offense completely off their feet. Making 14 first downs in 10 minutes, they finished the game on the long end of a 13-6 score. Their new “Crap Shooter’s Shift” completely bewildered the South Carolina Biddies, who were unable to solve it.

The Davidson team goes into action with virtually the same team that they met P. C. last week. Grey and Melton suffered severe charley-horses and Gibson and Nesbit were slightly injured. All four are expected to be in the game Friday, however. The probable line-up will be:

Davidson. Position. Clemson.
Melton or McEachern -- -- -- Manning Left end
Ritchie -- -- -- Davidson Left tackle
McNeil -- -- -- Holman Left guard
Laws -- -- -- Bethea or Harvey Center
J. Gray or Maulden -- -- -- Potts Right guard
Gibson -- -- -- Tuttle Right tackle
Arrowood -- -- -- Dunlap Right end
Wilson -- -- -- Link or Dozier Quarterback
Grey, R. -- -- -- Eskew or Ashew Right half
Overton -- -- -- Martin Fullback
Nesbit -- -- -- Limmerman Left half

The officials will be: Van Sant (N. C. State), referee; Schenck (Davidson and Clemson), umpire; Red Johnson (Davidson, N. C. State, and Carolina), head linesman.

It seems that the P. C. crowd came forth with the pre-game dope that the margin that the P. C. Freshmen beat the Davidson Freshmen would be the margin that the P. C. Varsity would beat the Davidson Varsity in 1925. Davidson won, 14-6. That statement sounds good!

Wick Black has made good his last six try-for-point trials. Popsy has sent over four straight placements also.

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
Sanitary Cafe
N. Main St.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
A Good Place to Eat
All Home Cooking

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description — "Jam-Up" SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

“U-DRIVE’MS”
Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Friday. Give us Spratt. safeties, bringing Davidson’s total to 88.

---

This cleaned text maintains the original structure, punctuation, and meaning.