-on the second vote; and in the third

THE DAVI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 27, 1924 No. 23

Two Delegates to Represent Davidson At Southern Federation of Colleges Convention

Will Convene at Chapel Hill for Two-Day Session, April 10th-11th

JIM HENDRIX A DELEGATE

Conference Brings Together Representatives of Many Educational Institutions

Davidson College will be represented by two delegates at the third annual convention of the Southern Federation of College Students
which will convene at Chapel Hill as guests of the University of North Carolina on April 10 and 11. Jim
Hendrix, president-elect of the student body, will be one of the delegates. The other representative will be selected by the
student council within the next few days.

At a meeting of the student body about a month ago, it was decided to enter Davidson among the number
of leading Southern colleges which at present form the federation. Davidson is the third college in the state to enter
this organization, North Carolina and N. C. State already being members. It was through the combined efforts of A. M.
Hillhouse and P. C. Beatty, of State, that this forward step was taken by the Davidson student body. It is
hoped that every leading institution of advanced education in the South will become a member of this movement.

The Southern Federation of College Students was organized at Georgia Tech in 1922. It was the idea of Al Staton,
all-Southern football man from that institution. The purpose of the association is to spread student body government over the South
and to extend, through experiences felt at the different colleges, the benefits of student body government in handling cases of
all types that may (Continued on page 5)

Covington President of Athletic Association

Baker and Selser Elected Vice-Presidents—Christian Secretary-Treasurer

Clayton Covington, of Laurinburg, N. C., better known to his fellow-students as Ted, a member of the rising Senior Class,
was elected to the presidency of the Athletic Association for 1924-25, on Tuesday morning. Three ballots were cast for the
office, and the race was exceedingly close. Ted has distinguished himself in various athletic activities for the past three years,
and the honor is well-deserved. On the first ballot, only the three highest candidates were determined, these being Covington, Boggs,
and Beall. Neither of the three candidates received a majority on the second ballot, but Covington and Boggs received the
highest number of votes. The last ballot was cast to determine which of these two men should head the association,
and it was in this election that Covington received the requisite majority of votes.

For Vice-President, Baker received a majority on the second ballot; but the second vice-president was not elected until after a
third ballot had been cast. Selser, running against Laird, had a margin of votes in this ballot and was declared
elected to the second vice-presidency. For secretary, Bohannon, Christian, and Sapp received the highest number of votes on the first
ballot, none of the candidates receiving a majority, however. Bohannon was eliminated from the race on the second vote; and
in the third election, Christian secured the majority (Continued on page 2)

CROMARTIE WRESTLES IN LEXINGTON

A. D. Cromartie, ex-captain of the Wildcat wrestling team, and undefeated during the past season, left last Tuesday afternoon for
Lexington, Va. where he went to enter the Olympic tryouts at V. M. I. He will wrestle in the 123-pound
class. Cromartie has a record behind him never having his shoulders put to the mat in an intercollegiate contest.

Buck Shaw Will Lead Rising Junior Class

Crayton Chosen Vice-President—Buster Lawson is Elected Secretary-Treasurer

H. I. (Buck) Shaw will pilot the Junior Class next year. At a meeting of the present Sophomore Class last
Monday morning officers were elected for the next year, and “Buck” was the choice of the majority to direct the
affairs of the Juniors. Five men were put forward by the class, a run-over being necessary between Regen and Shaw.
Others nominated were O'Connor, Huie and F. Hueson. For the vice-presidency, Speir and Crayton were the nominees, Crayton being elected
without the necessity of a second vote. “Buster” Lawson is the secretary-treasurer of the class. He was opposed by Bowie,
Appleby, Lovelace and Laird, and a second primary was run-off between Appleby and Lawson.

The Junior Class is entitled to three representatives on the Student Council besides its president, and those who had been
nominated by that body for selection were Hollingsworth, Crayton, Baker, Laird and Sappenfield. These nominations were seconded and Franklin was
nominated from the floor. Baker, Hollingsworth and Sappenfield were the choice of the class. During the past year Tom Baker
has been president of the class, and has proven a good leader. The corps of officers elected last Monday are
good men, and will make splendid leaders of the Junior Class.

Davidson Meets Emory Team On Neutral Ground

Queens College has been definitely decided upon as the scene of the forensic combat between Davidson and Emory University. This
word battle will be on April 11th. The team that represents Davidson is P. J. Story, L. D. Elkins, and
W. M. Cox. The subject of the debate is, Resolved, That France is justified in her occupation of the Ruhr.
Three days later, a team composed of D. B. Wharton, L. C. Little and D. B. Walthall, will meet a
Trinity team at Trinity. The subject of this contest will be the same as the one with Emory.

When the judges selected the six debaters who would represent Davidson they voted for the men by numbers. In order
to show no discrimination as to what men would meet any particular team it was decided to use the first,
third and fifth to meet Emory, and the others to meet Trinity. In the six men selected Davidson has (Continued
on page 2)

Eleven Students Make First Term Honor Roll

Five Seniors, Three Juniors on List—M. A.’s Fresh and Sophs Each Have One

TRAWICK HEADS LIST

Seniors Have Highest Class Average—Pi Kappa Alpha Leads Fraternities

Since the end of last semester the Registrar of Davidson College has been computing averages, of the classes, fraternities, athletic
teams, and other averages that are of general interest. These averages were released last Monday, and were given out for
publication. Eleven members of the present student body made the Honor Roll last semester, the student body average is on
a level with most of those of previous years, some of the fraternities average more than the student body as
a whole, and the athletic teams fall only slightly below the general average.

The average of the student body was 80.26, a slight increase over that of last year. Records have been kept
of some of the classes of Davidson College since 1884, though there are periods where no record was obtainable. The
highest average of any student body during this period has been 84.88, made by the student body, 1884-1885. (Continued on
page 6)

Week-End Party Plans Indicate Gala Occasion

Fraternities Make Plans for Enjoyable Celebration of Annual Affair

Only ten days remain before the non-fraternity party on April 5th. Every preparation has been made to make the week-end
a success and every indication gives promise of the presence of a host of the fair sex as guests for
the occasion. Scads of girls is the word, and see to it that she is present.

The individual chapters have made arrangements for rooms for their visiting guests and there will be no difficulty in arranging
places to stay for every girl whohas been invited to visit the hill at that time. Each chapter has been
shouldering its share of the duties arising in connection with the weekend, and the program will be carried out without
a flaw. At a Pan-Hellenic meeting last week, it was decided that every fraternity man should write home for a
box for the weekend of the party. Then Saturday night, after the picture show, a table will be spread on
the campus and heaped high with the pride of the South’s culinary talent. Of course, if the weather man does
tell the truth for once and we do have a rainy night, the table can be spread in the gym.
But if not, and he doesn’t make a mistake like that often, Japanese lanterns will transform the campus to a
quaint bit of Japan. Rows of these lanterns will be hung from Elm Row to Oak Row and between these
halls and the Literary Society buildings. There will be light enough too, around the table to make it appear at
its best. The program for the weekend will offer entertainment every moment Saturday, Sunday, and Monday. The halls will be
at the complete disposal of the guests. In the afternoon Saturday, a baseball game with Elon will furnish the excitement.
After supper at the gym, you will feel the proper atmosphere with Little Old New York on the screen before
you. Marion Davies does her stuff in the picture, and she shows some fine points.

(Continued on page 6)

Norris Will Award Athletic Trophy To Most Distinguished Davidson Athlete

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA ELECTS COACH YOUNGER

Coach Monk Younger was initiated into membership of Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity at a meeting of that organization last
Monday night. Coach Monk has played an important role in the activities of the college during his stay at Davidson,
and Omicron Delta Kappa brands him as a popular campus leader as well as athletic mentor, associating this recognition by
Diamond Outfit Ready For First Battle Friday

Will Meet Oak Ridge Lads for Brace of Games—Boushee to Pitch First Game

On Friday, March 28th, the scrapping Wildcat baseball team will meet the fast aggregation from Oak Ridge in the opening
of the first of a two-game series. Last year, Davidson was nosed out by the score of 6 to 5
in the first game of the season but took the second one 4 to 2. Captain Boushee will pitch the
first game, Coach Monk has decided, and either Laird or Potts will pitch in the second encounter. Red McPherson, the
only other letterman pitching from last year’s squad, works better in warm weather and will be saved for future games.
The infield, which is the smallest from the point of stature that Davidson has had in a long time, is
showing some fast work. Johnny Smith at first base is fast rounding into form and is getting his eyes on
the ball. Ted Covington at third has shown that he will be the best third baseman in the state if
he keeps on at his present rate of speed. On account of the illness of Sion Alford, a letterman from
last year’s team, Nick Sappenfield will be used in the field between second and third. Peewee Simpson is covering second
like a veteran, and while he has not gotten his eye on the pellet yet, he scoops all kinds of
hot ones around second, much to everyone's delight. The outfield has not been fully decided on as yet. Vance in
left field has shown

(Continued on page 5)

Elaborate Plans For Commencement Made By Juniors

The plans for commencement are beginning to take definite shape. The Senior Class is doing all in its power to
make this commencement exceed all previous ones in the variety and attractiveness of the program. The events of the occasion
will begin with the baccalaureate sermon on Sunday, June 1st, and end with the lowering of the Senior Class flag
on Wednesday, June 4th. Between the first feature of the program and the last, there will not be an idle
moment. The Senior Class is planning two special class features for the program, the nature of which will not be
disclosed until a later date. The first of these surprise features will be presented on Monday, and the second will
take the place of the Campus Fete that was held on Tuesday night of last year’s commencement. The baccalaureate sermon
will be given by Rev. Edward Mack of the Union Theological Seminary.

(Continued on page 8)

Best All-Round Athlete Will be Named in Student Body Election

PRIMARY NEXT WEEK

Candy Manufacturer of Atlanta

Norris, Inc., of Atlanta, has established an Athletic Trophy for the scholastic year 1923-24 to be awarded to the best
all-round athlete at Davidson. During the first week of April, a primary election will be held, and at that time
the three best athletes will be elected by popular vote of the student body. Two weeks later, the final election
will be held, and the Norris Athletic Trophy will be presented to the winner at commencement, becoming his permanent property.
The trophy will be placed on exhibit next week before the primary election. This award, which fills a long-felt need
at Davidson for recognition of athletic proficiency, is presented by Norris, Inc., candy manufacturers, through Mr. Frank W. Merrick. The
Norris Athletic Trophy Committee, consisting of the Director of Athletics, the Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, the Graduate Manager
of Athletics, the President of the Student Body, and the Alumni Secretary, with Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein, of Atlanta, Ga.,
ex-officio chairman, will have complete charge of the award. In addition to athletic proficiency, the winner must pass 70 percent
of his scholastic work. In case any of the men selected by the student body in the primary fail to
measure up to this standard, the committee has full power to drop his name and substitute the man who received
the next highest number of votes and who fills all scholastic requirements. The Norris Athletic Trophy will be the

(Continued on page 5)

Chong McIlwaine Named As Davidsonian Editor

Managing Editor of This Year’s Paper to Take Over Elkins’ Job

C. M. S. (Chong) McIlwaine, of Kochi, Japan, occupies the rank of chief journalist of the college by virtue of
his success in the Davidsonian election held last week. McIlwaine, a member of the rising Senior Class, was elected Editor-in-Chief
of the weekly publication over J. A. Lake. These two men were nominated, according to regulation by the Davidsonian constitution,
by the editorial staff, and their names were placed before the student body Wednesday morning. McIlwaine has been connected with
the Davidsonian, in reportorial and editorial capacity, since the early days of his Freshman year. He was a valuable reporter,
serving on the Reporter’s Club, Order of the Golden Quill, and a member of Delta Pi Kappa journalistic fraternity. During
the past two years, he has served faithfully and efficiently as managing editor. Lake has also been prominent as a
reporter and editor. He served as assistant managing editor this year. He is a member of the

The new editor will take the reins of office in the middle of April. With this change will come a
revision of the entire editorial and business staff, the present board retiring from office after a year of service. McIlwaine
will announce his board of assistants during the next week. The business manager will be elected at an early date
by the present staff.
