THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

Girls Present Burlesque on Shearer Hall Stage

Quips and Cranks Sponsors Queens Dramatic Club

The Queens College Dramatic Club will present a burlesque play, The Pot Boilers, in Shearer Hall, on Friday night, February
13th. This club is coming under the auspices of the Quips and Cranks staff. The Queens Dramatic Club consists of
about 20 girls, under the direction of Miss Ethel King, and chaperoned by Miss King and Miss Elizabeth Starr. Accompanying
the regular club will be the lively college orchestra, The Frisky Five, which promises to set the entire building shaking
from the strains of the banjo, saxophone, and piano. The entire Davidson student body remembers the musical comedy presented by
Queens last year and will look forward with pleasure and thrill to the return of the playmakers. Besides the chaperones
and orchestra, the personnel of the Queens Club is the following: Misses Beulah Holmes, Bessie Brake, Cornelia Wearn, Eva Matthews,
Lillian Blake, Kathleen McArtor, Frances Bizzelle, Meme Hampton, Rogers, Margaret Raymond, Olive Scarrott, Isabel Knight, Mildred Gillis, Winnie Frazer, Alice
Gibbon, and possibly a few others.

IMMORTALITY IS THEME OF DISCUSSION BY DR. RICHARDS

Last Sunday Dr. C.M. Richards gave an excellent sermon on immortality, using as his text: “If the Lord were pleased
to kill us, He would not have shown us all these things,” from Judges 13:23. He took up each of
the two books of revelation which God has given—our own constitution and the book of Revelation in the Bible. Showing
how, inborn in our constitutions, there is a belief in and a longing for immortality, since almost all religions hold
forth that hope and even those who deny it, give as a substitute, which at foundation, immortality, he asked, “Would
God have given us this desire if He were pleased to kill us?" Then briefly going through the whole Bible,
he pointed out that in the Old Testament was a shadow of it, while in the New Testament it is
brought forth clearly in the argument of Jesus that God said to Moses: “I am the God of Abraham, Isaac,
and Jacob.” He is not God of the dead but of the living. Dr. Richards ended his sermon with the
question: “Would Jesus have died for us if we had been nothing more than beasts?” and with a plea that
the men of Davidson cling closer to their only hope—Jesus.

DAVIDSON FRESHMEN OUT FOR MORE MEAT

After successfully defending their lair from all invaders in the first four games of the season, the Davidson Wildkittens left
Wednesday afternoon on the 2:18 for more meat in the homes and dens of North Carolina’s finest prep and fresh
basketball teams. The team will play four games in four consecutive days and will be away for six days altogether.
Oak Ridge, Trinity Fresh, Carolina Fresh, and N.C. State Fresh will furnish the opposition. The first game will be with
the prep tossers of Oak Ridge, who from their record among the high schools of North Carolina promise to keep
the Wildkittens busy on Wednesday night. Thursday morning will see the Red and Black squad on the road again and
that night Durham will get its first sight of what Coach Rawson has been doing at the Presbyterian college. Carolina
Fresh, a large and powerful team, will furnish the real test of the trip when the two rivals line up
Friday night in the “Tin Can” of the Carolinas, as Chapel Hill. The trip will be completed in the Raleigh
Auditorium on Saturday night when the little farmers of N.C. State will attempt to get revenge for the defeat of
their big brothers by the Davidson Varsity. Coach Rawson and Manager Bub Oeland are taking the following men on the
trip: Hewlett, captain; Anderson, Beall, forwards; Hudgins and Faucette, centers; Sapp, Simpson, Goodykoontz, and Wynn, guards. Should the Wildkittens come
out on the top in the games with the three Fresh quints, it is officially announced that a game will
be negotiated with the University of S.C. for the championship of the Carolinas.

Town News

Mrs. Brown, of Atlanta, has been visiting her daughter, Mrs. E. J. Erwin. Miss Adele Shelton spent the weekend in
Newton, visiting friends. The Young Matrons’ Club met with Mrs. C. S. Goodrum last Friday evening. The Mission Study Classes
are nearing the completion of their study of the “White Fields of Japan.” Rev. Darby Fulton, of Japan, was invited
to speak last Wednesday night. The young people gave a pageant at their last meeting. The ladies of the church
observed a special week of prayer last week. A free-will offering was taken which amounted to $275. The Thelemite Club
met last Friday evening with Professor and Mrs. W. W. Wood. Professor Erwin gave an interesting paper on Mencken's characterization
of the South as the “Sahara of the Bozarts.” Mrs. Woolsey, of New York, was a guest of the club.
The Senior Christian Endeavor had its regular meeting last Sunday night. The president took charge and called the meeting to
order. After all business was attended to, the meeting was turned over to the leader for the afternoon. The Scripture
lesson was found in Matthew 5:1-12. The subject was, “The Great Teacher,” What and How Christ Taught. Several one-minute talks
followed. The Ministerial Band quartet favored the society with a selection. The remainder of the afternoon was given to short
talks and readings about the many parables which Christ used to teach His people. The society was dismissed with the
Mizpah. The society is doing nicely, the new material has given the society new life, the committees are going to
arrange their work so they can do as much work as possible towards making the society better. An Executive Committee
meeting was called for last Wednesday night. Plans were made for a social for Thursday night, February 19th. Everyone is
cordially invited to attend; that is interested in C. E. work. The social will be held in the basement of
the church and will begin at eight o'clock. All of the young people of the town are invited to attend
the regular meetings of the society, which meets at 6:45 every Sunday night. Be sure to come, and bring a
friend.

Miss Gene Martin was home from Converse College for the weekend. Miss Grace Goodrum, a student of Davenport College, spent
the weekend with her parents Mr. and Mrs. M. H. Goodrum.

EUROPEAN TRAVELER SPEAKS

(Continued from page 1)

which extended over an area inhabited by ten million people, two million of whom died. There would have been countless
other deaths had it not been for the American relief which administered food to the starving people. “This condition,” he
said, “drew the economic life blood of the population, and people sold all their personal property in order to buy
food.” Then, dealing with the educational side of the question, he showed that the condition among the students was even
worse than in the homes. The Russian students are fighting for an education against great odds. There are 30,000 students
in Moscow, 75 percent of whom are constantly hungry.Chief concern is for food and a textbook, giving little thought for
clothes. The conditions in central Europe are temporarily much the same. Conditions should become better because of the fact that
students in many countries are giving money in an effort to remedy the situation. This money is used directly to
give the students food, clothing, and medical attention. Its indirect use is of greater advantage because it is used for
the active promotion of student self-help. In concluding his address, he told how the students of the college could assist
in the great work.

The Billy Sunday Meetings in Charlotte Ended Last Week
Davidson Students Hear Many of Night Sermons

The Billy Sunday campaign, which has been the greatest series of religious meetings ever held in Charlotte, was brought to
a close with the night services last Sunday evening, after six weeks of daily meetings in which the tabernacle was
crowded to overflowing at each meeting. The campaign was opened on Sunday, December 30th, and not once during the entire
campaign has interest lessened.

During the opening weeks of his campaign, Mr. Sunday flayed the Christians for their inconsistencies and then turned his voice
to the non-Christians, using all the powers at his command to win them to Christ. From the opening day of
the meeting, seats in the tabernacle were at a premium. Especially during the services on the Sabbath, hundreds were turned
away long before the time for the services to begin. Two meetings during the campaign which were of special interest
to the Davidson students were the college night in which about 200 students visited the tabernacle en masse, and the
service held in the local church during the concluding days of the campaign. Mr. Sunday often spoke of Davidson as
being synonymous with the highest ideals of scholarship and upholding the true principles of Christ.

During the entire campaign, Mr. Sunday conducted special men's services on Sunday afternoon, while a woman member of his party
conducted like services for women. Every week-end, Davidson students could be seen on the highway, Charlotte bound, and especially a
large number of students could be seen in the congregation.

Mr. and Mrs. Malcolm Rumple arrived from Argentina last week. They have made Argentina their home for the past two
years. Mr. and Mrs. Rumple will visit Dr. Martin for a short time.

BILLY SUNDAY PAYS VISIT (Continued from page 1)

"To succeed, to do the best wherever we are, that will pull us through and keep us out of that
list of dependents upon society which includes the great majority of those above 60 years of age. Some folks think
that they can go to college for four years, come out with a little piece of a diploma, and then
feel that all is over. Why, they have just begun, and that beginning is often very, very small. All that
may be expected of a four-year college course is a mere beginning in education. The time will surely come which
will show what you have learned.

"Don't be lop-sided; be like an alligator and never cease to grow. Develop the spirit of kindness, more than the
art of politeness."

He told of the incident when an artist-student, who had his mother to support, had pity on a supposed beggar
and gave him a franc, and that the beggar, who was Baron Rothschild, found out about the man and called
him up to reward him with a ten thousand franc note. "He cast his bread upon the waters and it
came back to him, covered with butter and jam. Treat a man right and he will return it; give it
to a man in the neck and he will give it back to you in the neck, and then you'll
have to thank God you are not a giraffe."

"Keep off the merry-go-round of fads. Don't think the world owes you a living. You may fool your profs in
college but you won't fool the world when you leave college. It won't take the world long to find out
that you are excess baggage or a false alarm, but you must take the long way around like everybody else.
We reap what we sow. There are no short cuts to success."

Billy Sunday took a shot at habits and hit the mark with a forceful description of how they come quietly
and without much strength, but, allowed to continue, they grow enormously. "Habits come as a fly and grow to be
a vulture," he said.

The summary was short. It is our duty to look for the best in the world, to seek to do
some good in this world, like the little cripple who gave his leg and his life that the life of
another might be saved by the grafting on of his skin. It is by such living and giving that we
are true to Jesus Christ, that our lives are a success, and that our education is complete in mind and
soul.

Mr. Sunday's visit to Davidson came as the result of repeated invitations from the college authorities. Other members of the
Sunday party were present to aid in the service.

DAVIDSON APPLIES TO SOUTHERN FEDERATION

The students of Davidson College voted on last Monday to apply for membership in the Southern Federation of College Students.
The purposes of this Federation are to discuss student problems and government, to be of mutual assistance to each other
in the exchange of ideas, to make plans for unity in action of the student bodies of Southern institutions, to
promote better educational standards and to carry these plans out according to the provisions of the constitution of the Federation.
All colleges having over 500 male students, with requirements of 15 Carnegie units or over, and whose application is approved
by the executive committee, are eligible for membership. The annual dues of each member college is $10, which is payable
at or before the annual meeting. Each member student body is entitled to one voting representative with an alternate and
as many speaking delegates as it desires to send.

CAROLINA’S LEADING CLEANERS and DYERS
“PARTICULAR WORK FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE”
AMERICAN DRY CLEANING CO.
1406-08 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Our College Representative Will Call Next Spring

With over 200,000 orders for Ford Cars and Trucks already placed for delivery during the next few months, we are
facing a record-breaking spring demand. Each successive month this winter has witnessed a growth in sales far surpassing that of
any previous winter season. This increase will be even greater during the spring months, always the heaviest buying period. These
facts suggest that you place your order early to avoid disappointment in delivery at the time desired.

It is not necessary to pay cash for your car in order to have your name placed on the preferred
delivery list. You can make a small payment down, or you can buy, if you wish, under the convenient terms
of the Ford Weekly Purchase Plan.

See the Nearest Authorized Ford Dealer
Detroit, Michigan
