THE DAVIE SONIAN

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 3, 1924 No. 24

Monk Younger’s Tossers Win Oak Ridge Series

Dr. Vander Meulen Makes “Y” Service Impressive
Discusses Life Work and Problems—Touching Man’s Relation to His Fellowman and God

BUCK CURRIE LEADS
Quartette Gives Selection—Two Other Men of the Hill From Louisville Seminary

The Y. M. C. A. vesper service of Sunday evening, March 30th, was in charge of a gospel team sent
out from the Louisville Theological Seminary. Mr. Williams, local secretary, introduced an old Davidson man, Buck Currie, who last year
was the “Y” secretary at Davidson, and the remainder of the meeting was put in his charge. A notable item
upon the musical program was a song by the quartet, composed of Currie, McCain, Vic Brown, and Elkins, all of
whom were Buck’s last year’s mates in many beautiful quartet songs appearing upon the “Y” programs.

Currie, in a short account, told the history of the acquaintance of Dr. Vander Meulen, the principal speaker of the
evening, with the Davidson student body. He also called upon Tink Taylor, a Davidson alumnus and a member of the
gospel team, who stood up for the inspection of the audience. Frank Caldwell, the third member of the team, was
not present at this time, but later entered the meeting.

Launching into his talk of the evening, Dr. Vander Meulen took as his text a passage from John 1:23: “He
said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, make straight the way of the Lord, as said
the prophet Isaiah.” His theme was a discussion of a life’s work, in the development of which he said that
two questions were facing young people today. The first is, “Do you know yourself?” the second, “What is your account
of yourself?” John knew their answers as far as his own life was concerned, and he was able to say
who he was and what he was about, in answer to the questions of those attracted by his crude actions.
Some men, he said, do not try to answer such questions. Further, “some men live life like it were a
romance of one world, but it turns out to be a short comedy in this world, and a long tragedy
in the hereafter world. A man must find out what he is before he makes a (Continued on page 5)

Week-End Party Promises Hilarious Time For All
Reception for Visitors in Fraternity Halls—Baseball Game and Movies Are Features

Friday, Saturday and Sunday of this week mark the first Non-Fraternity Week-End ever attempted by the students of Davidson College.
Sponsored by the Pan-Hellenic Council, this occasion so promises of success that indications are that it will be made a
permanent institution on the Hill. Both the fraternity men and those unconnected with fraternities are doing everything to work with
the Council for the success of the event.

Plans have been made to entertain about a hundred girls on the Hill this week-end, the fraternities throwing open their
halls to the non-fraternity men and their guests during the entire three days. All non-fraternity men will have open use
of the halls of their hosts. All faculty rules governing fraternities will be enforced throughout the occasion. (Continued on page
6)

Johnson C. Smith Quint Will Sing For Davidsonian
One of the most unique and interesting entertainments afforded the student body this term will be the concert given by
the Johnston C. Smith Quintet and Orchestra in Shearer Hall, Friday night, immediately following the Spanish debate. These colored singers,
already popular with Davidson audiences, have promised a program which will be interesting as well as instructive to every student.
The old negro spirituals which are passing away with the old traditions and lore of plantation life will be presented
by these vocal artists. They have had a long period of preparation and study of this particular type of song,
and there is no organization in the country more capable of depicting the spiritualistic music of the “darkey.” The entertainment
will not be confined to this type altogether, however. A variety of popular and secular numbers will be presented. The
orchestra, well remembered from their concert last fall, will be in their glory for the occasion. It was with difficulty
that the pro- (Continued on page 3)

Spanish Debate Feature Of Year’s Forensic Art
First Debate in Foreign Language to be Held in the Carolinas—Three Prominent Judges

At 8:00 o'clock Friday, April 4th, in Shearer Hall, there will be a Spanish debate between Davidson and the University
of North Carolina. As far as is known at Davidson, this will be the first intercollegiate debate ever held in
a foreign language in the United States. The question is: Resolved, That Spain should grant autonomy to Catalonia. Davidson has
the affirmative side and will be represented by P. F. Causey, A. T. Rowe, Jr., and J. B. Gallant. Each
speaker will be allowed ten minutes, and there will be only one rebuttal of three minutes for each side. Causey,
the first speaker, will have the rebuttal for Davidson. The question is one that has Spain all upset at the
present time. Catalonia is strongly industrial and objects to rule from Madrid. The Catalonians are of a different race and
speak a different language from the Spaniards, so the situation is a very disagreeable one. On the solution of this
(Continued on page 5)

DAVIDSON STAFF
C. M. S. McIlwaine, newly-elected editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, announces the appointment of the following staff:
Business Manager----K. S. McAlpin
Managing Editor----C. F. Smith
Asst. Man'g. Editor----W. E. Milton
Asst. Man'g. Editor----C. F. Monk
Athletic Editor----J. M. Selser
Peanut Parcher Editor----A. F. Simpson
Associate Editor----T. A. Lake
Associate Editor----B. Price
H. L. Shaw
G. D. Rogers
Circulation Manager----A. Thompson
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor----Lingle, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Mr. F. L. Jack

Two Seniors, Eight Juniors Extended Bids By Omicron Delta Kappa
Piggy Martin Arranges For Junior Week

Plans are practically completed for Junior Week: baseball games, Dramatic Club performances, promenades, girls and more girls. A Pathe News
cameraman will be on the campus to shoot scenes during the festivities. Beall, Boggs, Briggs, Covington, Hendrix, Lake, McIlwaine, and
Price are Juniors.

The Junior Speaking proper will take place in Shearer Hall, Friday night, April 18th. The preliminaries for these speeches will
be held during the past week, and those winning in each society will speak on the 18th. Following these speeches,
the Glee Club will give a performance.

Junior Week will start with a movie at the college gym on Wednesday night. Most of the “Fire” will arrive
Thursday. Their festival will be celebrated byThe presentation of three plays by the Dramatic Club, which is supervised by Prof.
E. J. Erwin, is under the leadership of Ted Jones. They have shown that not only are they leaders, perhaps,
in certain lines of endeavor but that they have rounded out their college life. In their studies, they have made
a creditable showing and they are not backward in mixing with the men, not only of their class, but of
every class on the campus. They are men of varied talents and a versatile turn of mind.

Every year Omicron Delta Kappa invites into its membership students who have served well or who are destined to serve
in positions with which they are entrusted. Judging from the past years, no set of strict qualifications can be determined
for the membership of this body, yet it can be seen that its personnel is made up of men of
influence. Let credit be given where credit is due, and to D. J. Chipman is due a great deal of
the success of the 1924 Quips and Cranks. Regen, as head of the Court of Control, has proved that that
body can adequately control the freshman class. Some acknowledgment of the services they have rendered should be made before they
leave in June.

To enumerate further on the Juniors initiated would be more or less of a prophecy, yet these men have gained
the confidence of their fellow students in the three years they have been on the hill to the extent that
they have been requested to handle the helms of many of the most important branches of campus activity next year.
The members at present of the Davidson College Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa include: Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. M.
E. Sentelle, Dr. W. R. Grey, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr. C. M. Richards, D. T. W. Younger, W. Z.
Bradford, A. M. Hillhouse, E. S. Faison, E. E. Boushee, J. Smith, L. D. Elkins, J. R. Walker, W. T.
Jones, W. F. Gallaway, W. M. Heston, C. M. Davis, R. R. Jones.

Harry Price, president of the Y. M. C. A., announces the following cabinet for next year:
- Personal Work: R. W. Oeland
- "Y" Meetings: A. M. Martin
- Deputations: D. B. Wharton
- Entertainment: M. S. Beall
- Self-help: T. F. Staley
- Handbook: C. S. Furches
- Mission Fund: J. R. Briggs
- Sunday Schools: A. M. Moffett
- Community Work: L. B. Gibbs
- Bible Study: W. C. Ramsey
- Mission Study: J. D. Laws
- Attendance and Records: A. H. Hollingsworth

Inmates of the infirmary during the past week were: J. H. Kimbrough, S. A. Alford, John Crinkley, O. M. Farnsworth,
R. F. Thompson, E. L. Morrison, Ted Jones, W. B. Mattison, W. F. Gallaway, Roy Hunter, Vardell Williamson, M. M.
Hunter.

Speaking, which is only two weeks off, "The best ever" is the motto of the Junior Week Chairman, Piggy Martin,
and those on the committee. The week will be intermingled with a grand riot of track meets, held Tuesday and
Thursday nights of this week, which will eclipse all others given by the Wildcats.

At a recent election held by the staff of Quips and Cranks, the editor-in-chief elected was J. A. Lake, of
the rising Senior class. The newly-elected editor-in-chief is admirably fitted for the position which has been bestowed upon him, as
he has been associated with the Annual for three years in different capacities. As literary editor for the present year,
he has contributed much to the success of the forthcoming volume of Quips and Cranks. Being so intimately associated with
the Annual, he will make a tremendous success of next year’s Quips and Cranks, judging from past accomplishments. At the
same time, T. B. Brown was elected as business manager for next year. He has also had much experience in
the past on the staff of the Quips and Cranks. These two offices were the only ones filled by the
Quips and Cranks elections, as the others are all filled by the editor-in-chief and the business manager, and these two
men have not appointed the other members of the staff.

Coach Younger’s diamond squad christened the new Richardson baseball field last Friday afternoon by battling Oak Ridge through 11 innings
to a tie of 5 and 5. The field was slow, and rain threatened to stop the game in the
first few innings. The hitting was scattered, each side netting seven good ones, honors being equally divided between Smith and
Captain Boushee, Wildcat southpaw. Davidson started the scoring in the second inning, after both sides had drawn a cipher in
the initial inning. With two men down, Boushee made first sack on Jones’ error, went to second and third on
infield errors, and scored when Covington singled. Oak Ridge came back in the third and scored three tallies with only
one hit. Smith was on first by Sappenfield’s error, Dean sacrificed, Tomko took a base on balls, and Clayton brought
in two runs by a long single to right field, which Vance fumbled, Clayton scored on Johnson's sacrifice fly. In
the same inning, Davidson duplicated with one hit and three runs. Kelly Johnson took his base on balls, lingered on
the paths while two men were put out, and advanced to third when Marrow’s infield offering was muffed by Dean.
Johnny Smith then stepped up and smashed a three-bagger over the center fielder’s head, scoring Johnson and Marrow. Smith tallied
when Frank Alford grounded one to Smith and the latter failed to handle it. Smith tied the score again for
Oak Ridge in the fifth period, making the circuit on two errors and a sacrifice to the outfield. In the
eighth, Davidson nosed ahead again by one run, Vance’s single scoring Marrow. In the ninth, however, Oak Ridge netted a
double by Dean, who scored on a bad throw to the home plate. The two extra innings were largely pitchers’
duel between Smith and Laird. “Red” Laird went in at the beginning of the tenth inning and held Oak Ridge
scoreless.

In the election held during the past week in which officers of the Senior class for next year were elected,
the following men were chosen: Julian R. Briggs, president; A. M. Martin, vice-president; and W. M. Gracey, secretary and treasurer.
Members of the Student Council elected were Bub Oeland, Ted Covington, Mac Beall, Jim Patton, and Chong McIlwaine. Harry B.
Price and W. W. Purdy were respectively re-elected historian and poet. The class has been efficiently led during the past
year by C. M. S. McIlwaine, president; R. W. Oeland, vice-president; and A. W. McAllister, secretary and treasurer. The new
officers will take office the latter part of the month. They are a group who should prove competent in directing
the interests of the class of '25 during their final year.
