THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

LOST
A Waterman’s Ideal Fountain Pen. Name on side. Please return to 15 North Barracks.

Mrs. Fraser Hood and her sister-in-law, Mrs. Wagner, left on Tuesday for Water Valley, Miss., where Mrs. Hood will spend December. Dr. Hood and his daughter, Miss Kallista, will visit there during the holidays.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

Town News
Miss Mary King Daniel, of New York City, who has been a guest at Dr. Grey's home, returned on Monday to New York.
The Book Lovers’ Club met with Mrs. Hood on Friday. Dr. Richards made the speech of the evening.
The Thelmites will meet with Mrs. Porter on Friday. The speakers will be Mrs. Erwin, Mrs. Martin, Miss Steele, and Mrs. Brown.
Mrs. Erwin has been ill for several days, but is improving.
Ted Muchachas has been carried to the hospital for an operation.
Mrs. J. Moore McConnell gave a “taffy pull” on Thursday evening.
Master Courtney MacConnell gave a “taffy party” on Saturday evening.
Miss Helen Johnston, who has been quite ill, is improving rapidly.
Rev. Dr. Morris, who spoke twice on last Sabbath, was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards.
The ladies of the town held their Bazaar on Tuesday.
Mrs. Archibald Currie has been ill for several days.
Miss Dorothy Rowland, of Rocky Mount, N. C., has been visiting her sister, Mrs. D. B. Van Sant.

DAVIDSON FRIENDS MOURN DEATH OF MISS M. STEELE
Early last Saturday morning Miss Mamie Steele died at Flora Macdonald College, Red Springs, N. C. She was the sister of Miss Orrie Steele, secretary to Dr. Martin, and she occupied a similar position at Flora Macdonald College. She had been in the work at Flora Macdonald for a number of years and was an important member of the administrative force. Miss Orrie Steele was called Wednesday morning to the bedside of her sister, whose health had been failing since last summer. The interment was at Rock Hill, S. C., Sunday. Miss Steele had visited in Davidson and had a number of friends among the people here.

LOCAL MARINE IN ACTIVE SERVICE IN NICARAGUA
Washington, November.—Among the U. S. Marines recently assigned to duty in Central America is Loyd Livingston Lowrence, of Davidson, N. C., who is now a member of the American Legation Guard at Managua, Nicaragua, according to the official records at Marine Corps Headquarters here. Loyd, who is a son of Mr. Henry C. Lowrence, of Davidson, joined the Marine Corps at Charlotte last August. He has recently been stationed at Paris Island, S. C., and will probably remain in Nicaragua for a year or longer before returning to the United States. A small guard of U. S. Marines has been maintained in Nicaragua since 1912, when they occupied that country to restore order during a revolution. Although they are far from home, the Marines find many ways to entertain themselves. The country abounds in game, and hunting is one of their favorite pastimes. No doubt Lowrence will have many interesting adventures to recount when he returns home.

BIG BUSINESS THE THEME (Continued from page 2)
“What did Andrew do? He brought his brother to Christ, then slipping back, submerged his own personality in bringing his brother into contact with the personality of Christ.” The speaker then pointed out who this Jesus is—the man into whose presence Andrew had brought his brother, and in whose company he had left him. Christ was pictured as...

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

Mrs. B. Elliott returned to Fort Defiance, Va. on Monday, with her mother, Mrs. Gordon, for a short visit.
The ladies of the church are busily preparing for a Christmas program.
Last week the Rotary Club from Mooresville met in the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. Dr. MacConnell had charge of arranging for the event.

Ancient Rules of Campus Sport Brought to Light
President U. Foolem Toiled Diligently and Conscientiously on Unfolding Rules
After weeks of gruesome toil and diligent research work, the All-American Intercollegiate Campus Football Association has drawn up the following rules for the purpose of eliminating the difficulties which so often arise in playing the college boys’ favorite sport—campus football. It is the unexpressed desire of President U. Foolem, of the aforementioned A. A. I. C. C. A., that every campus football enthusiast of Davidson acquire a set of these rules and keep same carefully filed away for future use. They are as follows:
Rule 1. Only college students (no profs, janitors, or co-eds) shall be eligible for this game, known as campus football.
Clause 1. All members of the Lion Tamer’s Club, Yellow Dog Association, and the K. K. K. shall also be excluded.
Rule 2. The game shall in no wise be played at any place other than the college campus.
Rule 3. Each side shall consist of two divisions known as the “prow” and the “stern,” or the “offense” and the “defense.”
Clause 1. In no case shall the number in the prow exceed the number in the stern, or vice versa.
Clause 2. There shall be no limit to the number of players so long as the law of definite proportions is observed.
Clause 3. Neither shall there be any object to the game other than exercise.
Rule 4. In all cases of dispute the quarterback of the losing side shall act as judge, and his decision shall be based on the size and disposition of his opponents.
Rule 5. Any player catching the ball on the fourth bounce shall be penalized four yards in the direction that the ball was rolling.
Rule 6. Any player wishing to intercept a pass must make known his intentions before the ball is snapped.
Clause 1. Failure to comply with this regulation will be penalized by exchanging goals.
Clause 2. Failure to intercept a pass after announcing his intention, the offender will be placed opposite the largest player of the opposing side.
Rule 7. This game shall not be played after dark, on Sunday, Christmas, or on the birthday of any player on either side.side. as Literary Societies

METROPHILIAN

The officers elected at a recent meeting of the Metrophilian Society were installed at the regular meeting last Tuesday night. The weekly debate was also held, the query for which was: Resolved, That America should help Germany at the present time. Guiton and Stewart upheld the affirmative and were opposed by Gracey and Pullen. The judges voted two to one in favor of the affirmative. Following a general discussion of the question, reports of last term’s work were given by the first and second critics, the treasurer, and the vice-president. The officers installed at this meeting were: F. M. Gracey, president; M. C. McLeod, vice-president; W. T. Covington, secretary; A. C. Ray, first critic; R. B. Parker, second critic; G. R. Sims, first supervisor; Jack Hand, second supervisor; A. C. Ray, first marshal; E. T. Pullen, second marshal.

PANDEINIC

The query, Resolved, That America should aid Germany at the present time, was discussed at the last meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society by DeWitt Hancock, who upheld the affirmative, and J. B. Webb, of the negative. The decision was awarded to the affirmative. An oration by C. F. Monk on "Is the Candle Light" concluded the brief but interesting program, which was cut short on account of a conflicting entertainment. The critic’s report was given by F. T. Franklin.

Freshmen at Hampden-Sidney are required to carry matches for the use of the upperclassmen. Any freshmen failing to do this must carry a large block of wood for a week.

Need Money?

Among those present were Captain and Mrs. R. D. Dougherty and Miss Hattie Thompson. Mrs. Dougherty sang to Miss Hattie’s accompaniment.

At a meeting of the Ministerial Band last Sunday afternoon there was an election of officers for the coming term. The following were elected: J. M. Carr, president; L. L. Deck, vice-president; R. S. Wilson, secretary.

A. N. Moffett, retiring president of the Ministerial Band, had charge of the meeting. After the singing of several songs, J. M. Murchison and J. J. Ricks led the house in prayer. G. F. Houck read the scripture lesson, which was found in John 15. This was followed by sentence prayers by all the members of the band. The election of officers followed. For president, J. M. Carr, P. B. Freeland, and A. M. Martin were nominated; Carr was elected. For vice-president, L. L. Deck, C. F. Monk, and A. B. Williford were nominated; Deck was elected. For secretary, Jack Hand, R. S. Wilson, C. W. Williams, and C. J. Hansel were nominated; Wilson was elected. The installation service will be held December 7th. At this meeting, there will be a written report read by the chairmen of the various committees. There were 30 members of the band present last Sunday. A full attendance is expected for the installation service.

LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.

He takes human life, remolds and reshapes it—redeems life. Men come through Him to God—their lives are renewed. It is a work which science, art, and all forms of learning cannot do. He is the only One who can make life anew.

N. G. Patterson presided, Bub Oeland and Roland Parker led in prayer, and W. P. Nesbitt rendered a cornet solo during the service.

Trinity College claims to have introduced football in the South, by defeating Carolina 17-0 in 1887. This game is supposed to have been the first real inter-collegiate football game played south of the Potomac River.

H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

For the average party, the average man requires two rather important items---an invitation and a Tuxedo. We can supply the latter at a moment’s notice, and you are invited to see it whenever you feel the urge. Evening clothes from the Fashion Park designing rooms meet all the social and quality requirements.

WE RENT TUXEDOS AND FULL DRESS SUITS

The championship “hobo” of Mercer University is R. E. Walker, who recently “bummed” from Chicago to Georgia in four days and only spent five cents while en route. Walker left Georgia in June to go West to work in the wheat fields. After working through the whole harvest season, Walker made the trip back safely. Most of his riding was done on freight cars.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing
Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE