THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

Here and There

We note with a great deal of interest that Mr. S. Clay Williams, who has for some time been counsel
for the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, of Winston-Salem, has now been made a vice-president and a director of the
company. Mr. Williams was a successful attorney in Greensboro before his connection with the Reynolds Company. He is a loyal
Davidson alumnus and has been always ready and helpful in the undertakings of the Davidson Alumni Association chapter of Winston-Salem.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell attended the annual meeting of the State Medical Association held on Tuesday and Wednesday, April 15th
and 16th, in Raleigh. Dr. MacConnell is chairman of the eye, ear, nose and throat section of the association.

1884—Dr. C. Alphonso Smith is critically ill in Greensboro, N. C., where he went to attend the funeral of his
mother. He is head of the English Department of the U. S. Naval Academy.

1892—Dr. W. L. Lingle is visiting his brother, Dr. T. W. Lingle. He came down from Richmond, Va., to attend
a meeting of the Concord Presbytery.

1899—Dr. R. H. Lafferty, a prominent physician of Charlotte, was here last week.

Insurance Service--- “We Insure Anything Insurable” W. E. PRICE 30 W. 5th St. Charlotte, N. C.

SODA : (Grrr rrr rr rrr rire) Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc. PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE
ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc. 201 North Tryon St.

1908—Dr. Oren Moore, of Charlotte, was visiting at Davidson last week.

1911—John A. Scott, Jr., a successful lawyer and member of the State Senate from Statesville, was on the campus last
Saturday.

1912—Karl Sherrill, of Statesville, was at the N. C. State baseball game.

1916—Wardlaw P. Thompson, of Charlotte, attended the baseball game last Monday.

1917—Rev. J. K. Hobson arrived in America on the 12th of April on a furlough, after four years in Africa.
He expects to visit Davidson while in this country. His address during his furlough will be Buchanan, Va.

1919—Gordon P. Scott, of Statesville, is now connected with the Statesville Furniture Company.

1920—Walter M. (“Prep”) Hall is to be married to Miss Lelia Cox, of Winston-Salem, on April 26th.

1920—J. B. Sizer is to be married to Miss Edna Walker, of Chattanooga, in the near future.

1921—William C. Gaither, of Newton, who is now in the hosiery mill business, was on the campus last week.

1922—Jim Sprunt is a student at Union Theological Seminary.

1922—Brown M. Hamer, of Hamer, S. C., is now one of the most successful planters in that section.

1922—“Slink” Black is director of athletics at Wilmington High School.

1922—Bob Holmes is now a professor at McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.

1922—T. A. Freeman, who is teaching at Crossnore, N. C., attended the State game last Monday.

1923—J. D. Bernhardt, of Lenoir, who is now studying law, was on the Hill last Saturday.

1923—Leonard Dick is now teaching and coaching track at Winston-Salem High School.

1923—Sam Davis is teaching at Blue Ridge.

1923—Bob Davidson is now an instructor at McCallie School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

CIGARS

NONE TOO SMALL We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size NONE TOO LARGE The Commercial National Bank Charlotte, N.
C. R. A. DUNN, President I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President J. B. DOAR, Asst.
Trust Officer A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

Who Knows?

That one form of hazing was to invite a Freshman to join a party to rob a hen roost. The
Freshman had to climb a tree, then someone of the party would slip to one side and shoot. Then the
party would run and leave the Freshman to shift for himself. He did this by falling out of the tree,
picking himself up and running with the fleetness of the wind through shrubbery and briers, with clothing torn, and hands
and face scratched until they more than bled, only to find out that it was all a put-up job. In
some instances, this resulted in the student packing his trunk and leaving college.

That in 1864 the draft age was lowered to 17 years of age and students were called away until only
24 were left, there being but eight of these who were doing real college work. That spring only one Senior
was graduated. He was James H. Douglas, of Blackstock, S.C. All the Juniors went away to join the troops, so
there was no graduating class the next spring.

That for many years following the Civil War the village of Davidson had few structures other than the college buildings,
the homes of the teachers, and two stores where the students went to spend their small change for tobacco, sardines,
and crackers. A plank road had been built from Charlotte to Mt. Mourne. A man on horseback brought the tri-weekly
mails. Candles were the main dependence for light. A part of every student’s equipment was aBox of home-made candles. On
Wednesday of commencement week, all the loyal friends of the college helped in illumination by filling the windows facing the
campus with lighted candles. The literary societies, as well as the faculty, formerly enforced a system of discipline. Members were
tried for profanity and drinking, and the society exercised a strong moral control over its members. Wilson was receiving his
first impressions of the world in those days. He was then in the formative period. Greek was taught in 1891
by Dr. Lodge, who was a small, nearsighted man. When the students entered his classroom, he would be found lying
at full length on a bench, and for 10 minutes he regaled his class with jokes and stories from obscure
Greek sources. He would then come up with a jerk and drive the lesson through like lightning.

In 1908, a movement was started looking to the removal of the college to Charlotte, having been suggested by the
General Education Board. The movement fell through because of lack of interest on the part of Charlotte citizens. An artificial
lake covering 14 acres to the east of the campus was provided in 1892. Mr. S. H. Wiley, of Salisbury,
provided a gift for building the dam and boathouses. This led to the bestowal of the name, Lake Wiley. But
it proved impossible to keep the dam from washing away, and also, because it became unsanitary, it was abandoned. The
post office at Davidson was established in July 1837. The earliest student’s letters were mailed from Mt. Mourne. No stamps
were used, and the charge of 25 cents was marked to be paid by the recipient. After the establishment of
the post office, P. Helper, the students gathered, and a clerk in the store mounted a nearby fence corner and
called out the addresses on the envelopes. This office was discontinued during the Civil War.

A new system of electing captains of teams is to be practiced at Franklin College, Ind. The captain will be
elected before every game and will rule for that game only.—Yellow Jacket Weekly.

C. R. WILCOX, ’11, PRESIDENT OF THE DARLINGTON SCHOOL

We note from a recent issue of The Christian Index, a Baptist publication, in an article on the Darlington School,
in Rome, Ga., that C. R. Wilcox, class of 1911, is making a real success as president of that institution.
There have been very few men on Davidson’s campus who were more popular and who engaged in more college activities
than Wilcox. Probably no other one man has ever done more than he to make the student government here permanent
and a real success when he held the office of president of the student body. He was also known as
a deeply religious man, and he has given religion its place in the school which he heads. The “Index” spoke
very highly of the devotional manner in which the students conducted themselves during chapel, although Darlington is not a denominational
school. Mr. Wilcox has associated with him on his faculty another Davidson graduate, S. H. Askew, '20, who was also
a leader on the campus. It will be remembered that Askew was editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian during his last year
here. It is also interesting to know that “Pat” Robson, '19, son of Mrs. A. B. Robson, and a former
“Wearer of the D,” is to be associated with Mr. Wilcox next year. Darlington has a beautiful location in DeSoto
Park, said to be the site of one of DeSoto's camps on his famous exploration expedition westward. It is endowed
by Mr. J. P. Cooper, a very wealthy philanthropist of Rome, and is splendidly equipped, having a library of some
three thousand volumes. It is one of the leading secondary schools of the South, having a student body of some
one hundred and twenty-five boys.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man, there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?”
This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines
the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently
worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant—Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange for merchandise or merchandise and money,
such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices
for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information, call Mr. Stitt at

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490
