THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

BEAT CAROLINA AT GASTONIA
FROCK FURMAN AND CLEMSON ON TRACK
COACH RAWSON’S KITTENS MEET SHELBY AND CHARLOTTE

By smothering Mooresville Hi 22-0 in their initial game, the Wildkitten diamond artists bid fair to outshine the already brilliant
record set by their brothers on the gridiron and the basketball court. Under any conditions, such an overwhelming victory indicates
unusual strength on the part of the victors. On March 18th, the Frosh stage their second contest when they meet
the speedy aggregation from Shelby High. This game will feature the Junior Speaking program for that day.

Of even more general interest in the Wildcat lair is the meet with the Charlotte nine on Saturday afternoon of
Junior Speaking. Concord’s hefty batsmen make their debut on the Wildcat diamond the afternoon of the 22nd. Coach Rawson is
expecting a merry scrap when his Kittens face this aggregation.

INFIRMARY NEWS
M. M. Hunter had his tonsils removed last Thursday.
Mrs. A. B. Robson will visit in Virginia during the Easter holidays.

FURNITURE and UNDERTAKING
Everything For The Home
WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

THE CAMBRIDGE
For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of
the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button.
A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

CAPTAIN C. M. STREIBICH
Who Holds the College Record for the Pole Vault

Wildcat Team Enters Triangular Track Meet
Red and Black Cinder Squad Meets Clemson and Furman at Furman

Davidson's track team goes to Clemson on April 18th to meet Clemson and Furman, in the first triangular meet of
many seasons. The only dope heard from the Purple Hurricane’s camp is that coming from their meet with the University
of South Carolina on April 12th in which they broke even with their opponents by a score of 56 to
56. The meet was run on a wet track and the time made in the track events was necessarily slow.
Hammett, for Furman, was high point man, winning first place in the 100-yard dash, 220 and 440, for a total
of 15 points.

Clemson on April 15th was defeated by Carolina at Chapel Hill by a score of 76½ to 35½; Carolina showing
better form and condition throughout the meet.

On Saturday, April 26th, the Wildcats meet V. M. I., at Lexington, Va. On the following Monday, they have their
last meet of the season, with Washington and Lee, on the latter’s home field. Nothing has been heard from V.
M. I. track circles, so the Wildcats are still optimistic concerning the meet with this bunch of Uncle Sam’s boys.

On April 12th, Washington and Lee defeated the cinder squad of the University of Richmond, at Richmond, by a score
of 78 to 48. They had the deciding edge over their opponents in the field events and hurdles. This should
tend to tighten up this meet, as Gracey and Anderson are showing up as well in these events as the
average college athlete is capable of doing.

The final ring up for the Davidson 1924 track season will be the State meet at Raleigh on the 2nd
and 3rd of May.

SIX SPEAKERS COMPETE
(Continued from page 1)

D. B. Wharton’s address will be entitled The American Malady. He considers shallow-mindedness and superficiality as the American Malady.

A. M. Martin in his subject, Best for Test, will show how history has proved that Christianity is best by
test, and also that it is best for test.

An inter-society medal will be given for the best speaker, and the judges for the occasion will be composed of
faculty members.

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame
Joseph Means “Rooster” McFadden, ’22
D* Football D Track

McFadden came from Chester, South Carolina, and he certainly has done honor to the Palmetto State. “Rooster” his first year
up here soon proved himself to be a football player. Although he did not make his letter his first two
years in this sport, he was right on the job making somebody else work for dear life to get a
berth on the team. “Rooster’s” third year at Davidson found him as quarterback of the Wildcat eleven.

McFadden began to play stellar ball his first year on the Varsity gridiron. In the game with South Carolina, his
first year on the team, he especially proved himself good in line bucking and off-tackle plays. He was always in
the fray with plenty of nerve and grit. Never could he be outgeneraled by the enemy. Because of his trusty
toe and his bullet-like forward passes, he was a terror to the opposing team at all times. When an extra
yard was needed, he could always be counted on. Not only was he there whenit came to getting an extra
yard, but he was also there to stop the opposition when they needed an extra yard. He was among those
who performed a stellar role in every game. Not being satisfied with his football record, “Rooster” went out for track
and won a letter in that sport. He cleared the low hurdles as if there were no obstacles in his
way. He made consistent time in every track meet. He was quite a surprise since he had not gone out
for track before his Senior year. McFadden not only left an enviable record in college athletics, but he also left
one in the other phases of college life. He was president of the Athletic Association his Junior year and was
also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

WILDKITTEN NINE WHIPS MOORESVILLE BY LARGE SCORE

Davidson Fresh 22, Mooresville High School 0, tells the story of the game on Richardson Athletic Field, Tuesday afternoon, April
8th. During the first inning neither team tallied, and the spectators looked forward to a hard-fought battle. But in the
second round, the Wildkittens got the jump by a two-run lead, which they increased to five in the next stanza,
and the game was never in doubt from that stage. Mooresville was at the mercy of Hampton and Kiser, Fresh
twirlers, while the locals found Evans and Hartness easily, pounding out 19 safeties, which with the errors of the visiting
nine accounted for 22 tallies.

Stranger—“Why is it that none of those autoists put out their hands when turning corners?”
Cop—“You see this is a college town, and the young chaps ain’t octopuses.”—Ring-Tum Phi.

TEX TILSON RETURNS

Coach S. D. (Tex) Tilson has signed to coach the Wildcat line during the coming grid season. He will also
have charge of spring football, and will be head track coach. He is now at Washington and Lee taking a
course in track under Fletcher, Olympic star.

W. M. (BOPEEP) GRACEY
Who Holds the Record in the High Hurdles

Younger’s Tossers Play Wake Forest and State

Captain Boushee Leads Team in Invasion of Northern Colleges

Coach Monk’s Wildcat diamond squad has the hardest games of the season ahead during the spring holidays, but if the
Wildcat nine can profit by the mistakes of their previous defeats they have good chances of emerging the victor in
several of the frays. This afternoon Wake Forest will be met on its home field. As the game of April
11th was rained out, this is the first encounter with the Baptists. To date, Wake Forest has had a fairly
successful season, winning from Elon twice and Lenoir once, but losing to Trinity and Guilford. With hard work, the team
has even chances of winning this game. Forgetting the defeat of last Monday, the Wildcats will have another chance at
State, in Raleigh. With State’s defeat of Trinity and their good showing on Richardson Field Monday, Davidson’s hopes of winning
are none too strong, but with renewed effort and practice they may take them into camp. Dopesters have it that
the unusually strong Carolina aggregation will take the game in Gastonia Monday, the 21st. But the team still has that
old Wildcat spirit that has to be shown first before admitting defeat.

The Question Box,

Dear Sirs:
Some of these boys around here call me the flower of my class. I wonder why they so term me?
Bob Mitchell.

Dear Bob,
Well, I once knew a lad whom the girls called the flower of the town because he was such a
blooming idiot.
Uncle Bud.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

INTERCLASS TRACK MEET TO BE HELD SATURDAY MORNING

A class field meet as an added feature of Junior Speaking is to be run off Saturday morning at 10
o'clock. To the winner goes the L. Richardson Cup, which has not been up for competition since the class of
’21 ran away with it in the spring of 1920. Letter men on the track squad are of course excluded
from taking part in any of the events. However, they will be on the field to help Captain Striebich to
manage the meet. The usual track and field events are on the ticket—the runs: 100, 220, 440, 880, 1 mile,
and 2 mile; the high and low hurdles; the high and broad jumps; the pole vault; and the javelin, discus,
and shot—in all 14 events.

LOST AND FOUND

WILL WHOEVER HAS DAYTON steel racket with letters H. M. A. and L. H. S. on heel please return it
to Watts’ Hall; single room, second floor?

For High Class PRINTING of every description + ‘*Jam-Up” SERVICE, see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard
Pub. Co. Quality Printers

SPORTING GOODS

Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building
