4 THE DAVIDSONIAN; NOVEMBER 13, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Open Forum
(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE..........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN.................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. W. E................Editor
C. F.......................Editor
A. F.......................Editor
A. L.......................Editor
B. PRICE..................Associate Editor
H. R. SHAW...............Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS.............Alumni Editor
D. WHARTON..............Athletic Editor

Business Staff
A. S. THOMPSON...........Circulation Manager
C. McSWAIN...............Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER.............Bookkeeper
M. GARRISON..............Service Manager
F. F. YIN.................Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
F. MOORE
F. M. APPLEBY
C. P. O'CONNOR
M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES
L. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. WOODS

WELCOME HOME
This week the student body has the honor of welcoming back Davidson’s old sons on the greatest day which the college has seen for many a year. November fifteenth, to which Davidson’s sons have been looking forward with hearts full of anticipation, is almost with us. Already we can visualize the spectacle of the first Carolina game on the Hill, the most colorful contest of the 1924 grid season in the Carolinas, for around it centers more interest than has been bestowed on any other game. Carolina and State played before the crowds at the State Fair, but the game was drab and mediocre. Wake Forest, State, and Trinity have staged some gripping battles, but none about which a spell has been woven like that which clings to Saturday’s contest. The glamor which surrounds the Red and Black machine, which Coach Younger has lifted from the depths of mediocrity into the position it now occupies, fascinates Davidson followers and their opponents. For coupled with the rise of the Wildcat eleven are the traditions that Davidson always fights at her best against Carolina and that she has remained undefeated at home for more than ten years. These factors make the Wildcat-Tar Heel clash the big game of the year. Saturday we welcome you, her sons, back to her halls, to cheer once more for the team which is never beaten but always fights to the last. You may feel that time has irrevocably changed the old campus but we know you will feel that the only change time has made in the Davidson spirit has been to revive it more fully in the hearts of all her sons. We welcome you back home and hope that while you are here you will feel at home in every way. Loyalty has always been a sacred thing to a Davidson man, and we all, students and alumni, will unite in loyally backing the team which will fight to beat Carolina Saturday and keep up the defeatless record at home for the past ten years. Welcome home!

BUMMING
Courtesy riding, or bumming as it is commonly known at Davidson, has been decried of late in editorials in the leading papers of the State. The danger of picking up a stranger on the road has been shown in numerous instances during the past few months. The most widely known case is the McLeary incident which took place just a few miles across the South Carolina line earlier in the summer. Two men whom Major McLeary picked up as a matter of courtesy, murdered him for the few dollars which he had with him at the time. While the majority of persons who pick up rides from passing motorists are not of the type who would commit murder, the occurrence of such happenings as the McLeary outrage and others of a slightly less sensational nature has turned motorists everywhere against those who want a lift. The sentiment of car owners, who formerly were glad to pick up anyone, is rapidly changing to one of suspicion toward the “Knights of the Highway.”

“O DAVIDSON!”
Year before last, special wording for our college song, “O! Davidson!” was arranged for a special occasion; namely, the installation of Phi Beta Kappa at Davidson. This wording was used, however, only that once and probably no one remembers the words which were used. The song is worded only for athletic contests, and then for football only, and is therefore not suited for all occasions unless modified. A friend this summer, having heard the music first, seemed rather disappointed when she found this out; she thought that it should be arranged to suit every need. Toward the latter part of last year, new words in the form of an additional verse and chorus were suggested by a member of the Senior Class, one of the best poets Davidson has had in some years. The athletic element is not cut out entirely, but it embodies the elements of spirit and loyalty to our Alma Mater. The music is beautiful; the original wording is pretty; the suggested wording is too. I do not know whether there is any way in which this could be adopted or not. But, should there be, why not add this verse and chorus and have a college song suited to all occasions.
C. L. B.

ATHLETICS—THEIR PLACE IN THE MODERN CURRICULUM
It is with a feeling of pride that Davidson students, alumni, and friends review the record made by the Wildcat gridiron warriors during the present season. That valiant little squad of Red and Black athletes have shown to the world that the athletic prowess that was once Davidson’s had not been lost forever. Fighting an up-hill battle all through the season, against odds that would have discouraged the most optimistic, they have carried their banner high. Only once have they tasted the bitter dregs of defeat, and then only at the hands of a heavier and more experienced eleven. They have fought well, they have won a well-deserved glory; but far better than that they have opened the eyes of some to the fact that athletics deserve and must be given their place in the modern college curriculum. Some great philosopher has seen that the cause of too many human catastrophes lies in the existence of an over-developed mind in an under-developed body, and he has prescribed for us the simple remedy, “A healthy mind in a healthy body.” To get to the theme of this little discourse we must scratch beneath the surface of that sententious little precept or maxim. Too long the truth that underlies that adage has gone unheeded. But it must be realized. To put it simply, athletics deserve serious consideration by the college, which realizes that its responsibility lies in the production of real men, men who are able to meet and cope with the problem of life with steady hand and unflinching courage. The mind can be developed, it can be filled to overflowing with a wealth and abundance of knowledge—but it won’t function in an unhealthy environment. The body, God’s greatest blessing to mankind, must be considered too. Development of the mind at the sacrifice of the body gains nothing. Mind you, we do not urge the consideration of athletics at the loss of mind cultivation. There is a happy medium. But, somehow, that seems to have been only too recently realized. Medical authorities agree on the vast benefit of athletics to the individual, yet there’s a much broader field for consideration. There’s the asset to the college, but here’s where we encounter no little opposition. Here we find those who contend that a winning athletic team is a distraction to a college rather than an asset. But, facts are facts. In the present day, what colleges are more widely known? The answer is easy! Certainly, in this day of advertisement and publicity, it’s the colleges with winning athletic teams that stand out.College students have not been behind in joining the army of bummers, and the rides which they have picked up may well be called innumerable. Now that motorists are waking up to the menace which lurks along the highways in the person of bummers, the man who asks for a ride is regarded as a potential thief or murderer—and not without some just cause. The day of bumming has passed, in the opinion of leaders of society, and promiscuous requests for rides by college students reflect adversely both on the student and on the college. At Davidson, passing motorists have probably taken more boys to Charlotte than the bus lines and railroads combined since the new road was opened up last spring. Expressions of disfavor and criticism of the practice have been heard on every hand and the State press has realized the importance of the situation. The fact that many boys believed they could catch rides last Saturday is the reason that no special was run Saturday to Charlotte for the Clemson game. The train gave students lower rates than the buses but because of the bummers bus rates had to be paid. There is no doubt that the failure to run a special to Charlotte is a blow to college spirit, for few things can compare with the unified spirit evident on specials at former games. Thus bumming has disadvantages both to the bummers and to the person who picks him up. The coaches felt last spring that the ease with which the boys could catch rides to Charlotte hurt spring football practice immeasurably. There is a difference, it is true, between asking a man who is getting into his car for a lift, and hailing a passing car, but the principle is just the same. There may be times when bumming is imperative, but the man who rides on others just for the pleasure of gaining free transportation is a social parasite. Let us think whether courtesy-riding should be practiced except in cases of necessity.

Not the college with the losing team or the university with no inter-collegiate athletics at all. It’s the school with the athletic team that forges steadily ahead in the eyes of the observers. The next supposition is natural. To what colleges do the most desirable men—not necessarily athletes—go? Of course, to those colleges of which they have read and heard the most. A new era has come at Davidson, the awakening has followed, the torch has been lighted; and the flame that has been kindled is not one that soon will die!

A DAVIDSON ANTHOLOGY

The Davidson College Magazine is pursuing a policy this year that is both commendable and reproachable. Those who have high hopes of having their literary efforts published in the Magazine this year will no doubt be grieved to hear that there will be but one hundred-page issue this year instead of four fifty-page issues as has been the policy in the past. On the other hand, a shout of approval will come from those who are interested in the financial welfare of college activities, especially of publications. At the beginning of the year the new staff of the Magazine found itself with a considerable debt on its hands left over from last year. As the other publications were in a similar plight of worse degree, the staff decided not to call upon the student body for an extra assessment. Furthermore, they decided to leave the field of entertainments and advertisements more free for the Annual and Davidsonian. This leaves the Magazine no financial source except the blanket fee upon which to draw during the fall term, but by Christmas the Magazine debt will automatically be paid off by this fund from the blanket fee. Yet the Magazine is not completely falling down as a literary force on the campus. The one large issue which will be published in the early spring will be in the nature of an anthology of Davidson College literature for this year. The field from which the material will be chosen will be considerably larger than that available for ordinary issues of the Magazine. Consequently, it will be more of a distinction for a writer to have his articles published in this issue, and the literary quality of the Magazine ought to be higher than ever before. Every aspirant for representation in the Anthology Issue of the Magazine this year ought to begin work early and write as good as possible and as much as possible, as there are quite a number of literary sparks beginning to burst into flame on the campus this year. The heads of the departments of the Magazine are: R. W. Walker, humorous; A. F. Simpson, short story; E. P. O’Connor, poetry; and D. B. Wharton, essay department. Material should be turned in to them.

By publishing this anthology the Magazine hopes to keep up a high standard for Davidson College literature, to overcome a financial deficit without an extra strain upon finances of the college, and to leave the Magazine next year with an open road financially and with a high literary standard to live up to.

—Confidential Guide—

More or Less Serious: Examinations, quizzes, girls, monthly reports, motor trouble. Comedy and things Like That: Jim Patton trying to play his trombone in a telephone booth. Abie’s Irish Rose Blows Her Nose—(a running drama and quite wheezy).

Eye and Ear Entertainment: Queens, N. C. C. W., G. C., Salem, etc. (to be reviewed later).

Lest We Forget: “Mrs. Professor—O Henry, dear, the baby cut two new teeth this morning! A. M. Professor—That’s what you get for letting him play with a knife.”

Chaff Life (In which Chaff does its best to take off our national weekly, which is read and appreciated by all collegians.)

“While there is Life there’s Strife”

Life Lines: If the vocation of a telephone girl is a calling, is that of a professor’s a profession? A prof asked us who was the mother of invention and we told him. But we didn’t know the father; it was a Mr. Ree. My girl is only a farmer’s daughter, but she knows her okra. Abie—“Vas you superstitious, Ikie?” Ikie—“No, Abie, I think nothing of sleeping thirteen in a bed.” Life wants to know what has become of all the Literary Digest straw votes. Farmer Ciderbucket lows that they hev been used to stuff some of the poli-ticks.

Pungent Paragraphs: Limberger, hydrogen sulphide, garlic, socks, glue factories, coal tar, departed cats, gas works, cabbage. Aged butter, fish, feet, beer kegs and onions. I won’t—What’s in a name? Doit—There’s a lot in Lancelot. Ding—What’s that bell ringing for? Dong—Someone is pulling the rope.

Mrs. Pep’s Diary: November 15th—Up betimes, and didst go down to the hick village of Davidson where I saw a game of ball between the first mentioned place and Carolina. Of special interest was the adorable chapeau worn by one of the feminine rooters, green ostrich feathers with monkey fur. The score of the game escaped my memory. I counted seventy-one buttons on a woman’s dress front. Surmised that several of the youth were afflicted with St. Vitus dance until someone told me that they were cheer leaders. Poor boys. After the game, I golfed two rounds and tead in a downtown tea-parlor. Owing to a headache, abed at twelve p.m. She’s only a moonshiner’s daughter, but I love her still.

Our New Cross-Word Puzzle: Acrostic—crisscross—Ben Turpin—crosscountry—St. Andrew’s—recross—German War Cross—Crossing the bar. All you have to do is to cross out all the words, add a few X’s and other crosses. Don’t get cross over it, and send your answer to Life before July 37, 1934. First prize, a cross-cut saw.

Famous Banks: “First National.”

Joe Garrison’s note: Ben Franklin has published his latest song hit, a bass drum solo entitled, “Ice-cold papa, don’t you try to ‘frigerate me.”

—Crosby

Skippy: The above picture, taken on a snowy morning, shows Skippy just after he had taken a bath and fallen into a barrel of whitewash.

THE FLOOD: A One-Act Play by Polo Negro (The curtain rises showing the imperial Russian palace before the warsky. Two courtiers, Gens. Kachimoff and Guzzlewhisky are conspiring together).

Kachimoff—Aha; here comes the czar with his wifesky.
Guzzlewhisky—By my last flash of vodka, he does. But my trusty pea-gun will shoot him deadsky.
(Enter the Czar and Czarina and several little Czardines).
Czar—'Pon my word, and it’s my bally comrades, doncha know.
Kachimoff—Now’s the time, Guzzle, fire your shot to save the people.
(The Czar looks mean, as a flea from a hot dog bites him).
Guzzlewhisky—Hark! the Czar has a cloudy countenance, and I’m afraid he is going to reign. Let’s movesky.
(They leave and the Czar reigns).
Finis.

Cue—My uncle is a cabinet member?
Clucks—Honest?
Cue—No. I just said he was a cabinet member.