£ DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

VICTORY CAFE
A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service
West Trade and Poplar Streets
Charlotte

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Town News
Mrs. D. L. McSwain, of Arcadia, Fla., who has been visiting her son, Gordon, leaves for home Monday. She has been entertained at the home of Mrs. White. Miss Ruth Henderson spent the weekend at home. Rev. and Mrs. Sample have moved into their new home, which is situated next to that of Rev. and Mrs. W. M. Hunter, on Concord Street. Miss Mary Jane Daughtery celebrated her 50th birthday at a party on Friday afternoon. Those present were Bob and Bill Wood, Elizabeth Shewmake, Margaret Douglas, Goudyloch Erwin, Kenneth Foreman, and Virginia Black. Dr. C. M. Richards and Dr. W. R. Grey expect to attend a meeting of Concord Presbytery this week at Thyatira. Margaret Wilson, of Abbeville, spent the weekend as the guest of Miss James. Friends at Davidson of R. S. Graham will be glad to know that he is now a successful lawyer at Norton, Va. During 1906 and 1907 Mr. Graham was a very successful coach of the Davidson football team.

CHARLOTTE BUSINESS MAN MAKES TALK TO STUDENTS
(Continued from page 1)
those blessings which we commemorate on each great holiday: these are gifts of God. The love of our fathers and mothers, and their influence in our lives are given of God to us. “A living sacrifice, holy acceptable unto God which is your reasonable service. God calls for living sacrifices, clean bodies dedicated to Him. What is better than to die fighting in a great cause? Horatius, in legend, died interposing his body for others. Richmond Pearson Hobson sank the Merrimac, interposing his body to save others. Livingstone in Africa presented his living sacrifice.” The speaker told of the joy that comes to a business man in giving up little things, in serving Christ. He concluded: “When that last day comes, we will go to be with our loved ones if we have built up and not gone back. We must hold steadfast to the Bible if we are to build up. Russia was ruined because of the degrading purposes of leaders within the nation. Are you willing to present all you have?” Jimmie Trotter presided, reading the scripture and introducing the speaker of the evening. Hayden Hollingsworth and Benton Wharton led in prayer, D. G. Wilson led the singing, and Wallace Purdy was pianist.

MERRIMENT REIGNS SUPREME
Men of Church Foster a Unique Organization
(Continued from page 1)
Several meetings have been held in the past two weeks in connection with the organization of the men of the Davidson Presbyterian Church. The first of these meetings was held on Thursday evening, September 25. After a supper served by the ladies, it was unanimously decided to organize, and to use the name adopted by the General Assembly, The Men of the Church. The following officers were elected: President, Prof. A. Currie; Secretary, Mr. J. P. Williams; Treasurer, Mr. H. H. Elliott. These officers, together with Dr. Richards, appointed five vice-presidents, each of whom is to have charge of one department of the work laid out. The vice-presidents are: Dr. W. M. Hunter, Spiritual Life; Dr. R. W. Hood, Christian Training; Mr. J. Lee Sloan, Fellowship; Mr. Lilly, Stewardship of Possessions; Dr. Beaven, Evangelism and Missions. The Executive Committee, which is composed of all the officers, has divided the men into eight groups with the following as leaders: Mr. F. L. Jackson, Mr. Walter Henderson, Mr. John C. Bailey, Mr. C. W. Rawson, Prof. A. V. Goldiere, Prof. W. N. Mebane, Mr. W. B. Barnette, and Mr. M. W. Cranford. It has not been definitely decided just when the meetings will be held, but it is expected that they will be regular.

The Seniors showed great originality in their part of the entertainment. A Hollywood version of The Shooting of Dan McGrew, with Archie Ray as director and Soc Gibbs as camera man, was presented. The stage was fitted up to represent the Malamute Saloon and the well-known characters of Service’s poem lived again with the parts of Lou, Dan, the Stranger, and the Bartender embodied in Al Simpson, Shorty Howell, Wallace Purdy, and Fats Laws. Besides these, there were several card players busy with their game, and the actors went through the entire scene in pantomime. The K. K. K. had a guessing contest in which four of our cracker friends from Georgia came forth with a few songs—jazz and otherwise. Their concluding number appeared to be enjoyed by all present. Captain Martin shifted his team in the most approved fashion at the end of each verse of the “Come to Sunday School” appeal. The other members of the Krazy Kracker Quartet were Dowson, Toornart, and Woodrow Wilson.

Following the K. K. K. number, the stage was darkened and four Junior hunks of midnight crept into a supposedly haunted house with a lantern. They had resolved to shoot craps for a half hour in the house and win a hundred-dollar bet. Sure enough, the worst happened, for Mr. Ghost paid the house a visit. The dark element forsook the house but the ghost remained and danced the Dead Man’s Waltz. Ben Franklin, C. Smith, Wood Brown, and Bill Fitts.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

impersonated the crap shooters in a very realistic manner. Men of the Jim Clark, Chalk Wizard, showed the uninitiated what a simple matter it is to discover art in the most common objects. Using such devices as numerals, geometric figures, letters, windmills, and even teacups he converted them into clever cartoons. Jim remains the champion chalk talker of Davidson.

Lin McClain, Ed Wilson, John Foster, and Ritts, composing the Glee Club Quartet, harmonized for act number eight. They had piano accompaniment with one selection. The Kiser, Bernhardt, and Kiser Trio followed with a banjo and guitars on "Whoa Mule, Whoa." Then the Kisers put on a clog dance—one Fling. As an encore they agonized the air in a most approved style with "Wonder What's the Matter With the Church Today?" Paint enhanced the minstrels’ beauty. Our regular Glee Club Symphony officially opened the season with "The Sentry" and "Anvil Chorus." Several of the new men have made the symphony this year. Suffice it to say that the boys are still putting out first-class musical entertainment.

The Little Milliner, an original one-act play written by Professor Erwin, the Earnest but little duets. The action of the play occurs in the millinery department of Luke Walton’s small-town department store. Luke (L. L. Deck) and his son, Ed (V. J. Guthrie) are at first each trying to win the heart of the recently employed Little Milliner (Miss James). Coming into the millinery department and finding their former sweethearts there, they decide to grant the Little Milliner’s request to be let alone. Luke walks out of the shop with Mrs. Eckles (Miss Mathews) and the widows break their resolutions to remain single.

Work on the new Chambers Building has been going on at a stride, far in advance of the predictions of some, and it is expected that the new building will be ready for use at the beginning of the second semester. This rapid progress has been due, in part, to the splendid weather conditions that have prevailed throughout the past month. Progress in the future will not depend as largely upon weather conditions as in the past. The beautiful white stones for coping, and the sandstone columns for the south wing of the building have been coming in for several weeks, and much interest is being shown over the laying of these heavy stones. The concrete slabs over the third floor are being elevated and the roof will be the next addition to the building. The inside tile and plaster work is being done; the sewerage, water, and heating system are being laid; the basement has been drained, and its walls made water-proof; and there only remains such work as putting in windows and doors.

This building is entirely fire-proof, each floor being of solid concrete, reinforced by a meshwork of steel rods. The doors will be of a finer and more expensive type than those of any other building on the campus. It is thought that the north wing will be the next unit of the building to be constructed. Whether this work will immediately follow the completion of the south wing will depend upon the readiness with which pledges are paid.

In New York betting circles the betting is 4 to 1 for Coolidge, 1 to 4 for Davis, and 1 to 9 for LaFollette.

Since 1868 THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES GREETINGS--- 28ers! Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes--for ANY occasion, and he'll tell you “GILMER-MOORE’S” in Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear--they’re all to be found here NOW! GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE SHOES. LUGGAGE

“Working Your Way” Made Feasible Writing life insurance has enabled many a man to pay his way through college. It is a dignified calling and a true social service. To induce your fellows to form habits of thrift — to obligate them to put by a little of their income — to safeguard them against future loss of earning power—is a form of effort that brings keen satisfaction as well as profit. These are only a few of the reasons why the insurance business today is attracting the very best brains of America. Write for the full particulars of a plan whereby you can assist yourself through college, and, at the same time, prepare for a profitable and satisfactory business career.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. H. B. Gunter, Vice-Pres. & Agency Manager

New York Cafe Davidson, N. C. When Hungry Call On Us

Miss Louise Folks, of Waycross, Ga., will arrive in a few days to visit Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld. The Young Matron's Club will meet this week-end with Mrs. Gwen Dusenbury.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB 8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE Dyeing, Dry Cleaning, Shoe Shine In Connection, Pressing

---