THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

‘09—Rev. C. F. Arrowood is now located at 3505 Louisiana St., Houston, Texas. Dr. Arrowood is professor of Philosophy at Rice Institute, Houston.

‘10—Dr. J. C. Peden, of Tulsa, Okla., was a campus visitor last week.

‘10—The Wilds Book prize was won at Columbia Theological Seminary by H. N. Alexander.

‘20—Floyd L. Knight was graduated from the Medical department of the University of Virginia in June.

‘20—Rev. R. E. McLure has removed from Garland to Leakesville, N.C.

‘24—Earle McKellar has entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Boston.

REV. JAMES RUSSELL WOODS

Rev. James Russell Woods, ‘18, graduate of Davidson and of Union Theological Seminary, has recently been appointed to the chair of Church History at Union Seminary, to succeed Dr. W. L. Lingle, who resigned last spring to take a position as President of the Assembly's Training School. Rev. Mr. Woods distinguished himself while at Davidson and also at Union Seminary where he held the Hoge Fellowship. The alumni and faculty of the seminary are pleased to see this important chair go to Rev. Mr. Woods, who, in spite of his youth, has sound theological views. Their only regret is that the appointment is made temporary because Professor Woods expects to go to China as a missionary next year.

The following men were on the Hill Saturday for the Davidson-Wofford game: W. W. Flowe, ‘05, Concord, N.C.; Dr. Y. W. Faison, '06, Charlotte, N.C.; Dr. E. E. Yates, ’08, Moravian Falls, N.C.; Dr. Oren Moore, ‘08, Charlotte, N.C.; H. A. Query, ‘09, Gastonia, N.C.; L. H. Wilkenson, ‘13, Charlotte, N.C.; Dr. W. H. Sprunt, ‘14, Wilmington, N.C.; U. S. Alexander, ‘15, Charlotte, N.C.; W. D. Lawson, ‘18, Gastonia, N.C.; R. H. Bennett, '16, Gastonia, N.C.; R. C. Garth, ‘19, Charlotte, N.C.; H. W. Davenport, ‘19, Mt. Holly, N.C.; W. F. Hall, Jr., ‘20, Statesville, N.C.; J. D. Howell, ‘20, Wilmington, N.C.; Dr. J. C. Monroe, '20, Wilmington, N.C.; J. M. Gaston, Jr. ‘21, Lowell, N.C.; C. R. Vance, '21, Greensboro, N.C.; George E. Miley, ’21, Charlotte, N.C.; C. K. Marshall, Jr., ex-'26, Gastonia, N.C.

NOTES

‘73—Dr. R. P. Smith, superintendent of Home Missions, Asheville Presbytery, attended services here on Sunday.

‘78—C. J. Norris is now a hardware merchant in Concord, N.C.

‘78—A. L. Lanning is a physician at Fountain Inn, S.C.

‘86—G. F. Robertson is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Bristol, Tenn.

‘03—Dr. T. W. Lingle conducted services at Back Creek last Sunday.

‘11—The engagement of Rev. Carl B. Craig, of Laurinburg, S.C., to Miss Mary Eleanor Johnston, of Jefferson, S.C., has been announced. The wedding is to take place on the 2nd of October.

‘08—Rev. R. M. Stimson has been installed as pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Columbus, Ga.

‘15—The engagement of Woodrow McKay to Miss Frances Holt Montecastle, of Lexington, N.C. has been announced. The wedding will take place this fall.

James E. Faw, ’15, of Atlanta, Ga., has been advanced to the headquarters office of the American Telephone and Telegraph Co., at 195 Broadway, New York City. Since his graduation, Mr. Faw has gone up step-by-step in this organization. This last promotion is in recognition of his unusual success in the division office at Atlanta. While in college, Mr. Faw held several important offices on the campus, including Business Managership of the Annual.

Marriages

‘12—Irvine C. Crawford was married in June to Miss Dorothy Kime White, of Mebane, N.C., and is living at 320 S. Mendenhall St., Greensboro, N.C.

Deaths

‘71—Thomas J. Allison, prominent in western North Carolina democratic politics for many years, died in a Statesville hospital, October 10th. He had been an invalid for three years as a result of paralysis. He was United States Marshal under Grover Cleveland.

‘78—F. T. Morgan, of Charleston, S.C., died last week.

HONORARY FRATERNITIES

(Continued from page 1)

as well as at the other colleges, in which its chapters are located. Believing that military service is an obligation of citizenship, and that the greater opportunities afforded college men for the study of military science place upon them certain responsibilities as citizens, certain cadet officers in Davidson and other American colleges and universities have formed a society, which will unite in closer relationship the military departments with the colleges, and will preserve and develop the essential qualities of good and efficient officers. To be initiated into the Scabbard and Blade a man must first have attained the rank of a commissioned officer in the cadet corps, and must have distinguished himself on the drill ground as well as in the classroom.

Alpha Phi Epsilon, one of the leading national forensic organizations, is represented on the Davidson campus with a strong chapter. It recognizes leadership in forensic and literary society work, and its membership includes those students who as members of the literary societies, or the inter-collegiate debating teams have excelled in this specific line of activity. The fraternity was founded at the University of Alabama, April 18, 1918; and now has its branches in many of the leading colleges of the nation.

Delta Pi Kappa, a local journalistic fraternity, confines its membership to men who have shown especial talent along journalistic lines, and who have distinguished themselves as members of the staffs of the various college publications. It was founded at Davidson College in 1920, and has been of great aid in raising the Davidson magazine and weekly to the places of prestige they now occupy in the world of college publications.

Sigma Upsilon, founded at the University of the South in 1906, is perhaps the leading honorary fraternity on the campus, devoting itself to the recognition of valuable services in every branch of literary endeavor. MembershipIn the organization, membership is open only to men who have been outstanding during their undergraduate years in literary work, especially work along journalistic lines. Prof. E. J. Erwin, of Davidson, is president of the national organization. Gamma Sigma Epsilon, founded at Davidson College in 1920, and now one of the leading national chemical associations, occupies a peculiar place among the honorary organizations on the campus. Founded by students of Davidson in 1920, under the leadership of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, head of the Chemistry department, it gradually broadened its scope until it now has chapters in five of the leading universities of the South. Dr. Arbuckle, one of the founders and leader and advisor of the mother chapter, is also grand chancellor of the national organization. Its members are those who have attained eminence in chemical work during several years of undergraduate activity.

Sigma Pi Sigma, a local physics fraternity organized at Davidson in 1921, recognizes and rewards excellence in physics. The present roll of the organization includes the names of those men who have been outstanding in the work of the Physics department, and whose talents and ambitions are especially adapted to this line of activity.

PROFESSOR HEATH (Continued from page 1)
He was prepared for college at Yorkshire, England, and later graduated from the Moravian College and Moravian Theological Seminary at Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. For several years after his graduation, he was an educational worker in the British West Indies, but for the past 11 years, Mr. Heath has been a professor of History at Salem College.

On the Hill
It is a true saying that the successful man is he who laughs often, lives well, and leaves the world better than he found it. Harry Lombard, organizer and manager of the Lombard Entertainers, can qualify under this digest as a most successful man. He goes a step farther, however, and makes others laugh and sheds brightness and beauty through the program which is presented by his remarkable company.

Choosing as the theme of his lecture the broad subject of Americanization, Baldwin W. Gouse, a widely known lecturer and writer, spoke to the education and political science classes of Dr. Fraser Hood last Thursday morning, delivering a very forceful address on proper law enforcement. In dealing with his subject, Mr. Gouse treated in minute detail the fallacy of law enforcement in America today and urged that his audience bear in mind that the proper place to enact a repeal of a national statute is in Congress, not in failure to abide by the provisions of the act. He used apt illustrations of this point, one of the leading ones of which was his citation of the present Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution, commonly known as the “Bone-dry clause.” He insisted that if the prohibition law had become distasteful to the American public, it was time for an appeal to Congress for its repeal. Daily failure to enforce this statute and a host of other national laws is fast leading the nation away from real Americanization, he pointed out.

TWO SOLID ROWS OF GREY STANDS ON RICHARDSON
The three thousand bleachers ordered by the Athletic Association a short while ago have arrived and were in use for the first time at Saturday's game. They were put up on Wednesday and Thursday with the aid of the students. Davidson students have a right to be proud of Richardson Field. It is one of the best athletic fields in the state and with its new bleachers presents a much better appearance than formerly. It now has a seating capacity of 5,000 people. Evidence was given Saturday, however, that other arrangements would have to be made for the accommodation of the crowds that come to see Davidson's team in action. Arrangements are now under way for the rental of more bleachers for the Carolina game here on November 15. A record crowd is expected then as it is the biggest and most important game here this year. Old Davidson graduates and other followers of Davidson are expected in large numbers. The Athletic Association is making arrangements to accommodate the large crowd.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs, and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in your own home. Write or see the Insurance Department. Phone 3940.

For eight years, he was a baritone with the English Opera Company and known not only as a singer but also for his ability as a comedian of high rank. Two artists, feminine and gracious, assisted Mr. Lombard in the presentation of a program that is entertaining and delightful and as clean and wholesome as mountain air. This excellent company will appear as one of the numbers on the Lyceum course at Shearer Hall on Thursday night, October 23rd.

FIVE MEN STILL FIGHTING IN TENNIS TOURNAMENT
The eleven contestants of last week for the second tennis team have now been narrowed down to five. Those still in the tournament are E. M. McCutchon, R. W. Carr, R. Crosland, R. B. Parker, and J. G. Parks. Four of these five men will compose the second team. The winner of the tournament will be the fifth man on the varsity for the first match, which will be held during the first of November. After this, the places on the varsity team for the year will be fought for by the men of the first and second teams. Although the tournament is supposed to be about over, the places on the second team are far from being certain. Several men who have been eliminated intend to challenge those on the team and it is quite possible that things will be changed around yet. Manager Mack Beall intends to have a match here during the first of November. A match with the University of Virginia on November 1st is pending and if this cannot be arranged, it is probable that Carolina will be here the Friday before the football game. At any rate, the students are practically sure of having a good tennis match on the hill this fall. Better tennis is being played this year than usual and the prospects for a winning team are very bright.

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE
Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two-piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants in Light, Medium, and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money