6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

State Fair Association Offers Short Story Award

Rules of Contest Are Announced to Davidson Students

Davidson students will be interested in the recent announcement of the North Carolina State Fair Association regarding a short story
contest open to students of any college or university in the state. The contest, which is attracting the attention of
students all over North Carolina, is managed by three judges, who will be appointed in a short time by the
State Superintendent of Education. Each manuscript submitted must be accompanied by a certificate of enrollment from the proper college authority,
and must be in the hands of the judges on or before April 1, 1924. Every manuscript, regardless of the
number entered in the contest, will be read and carefully judged; and the prize awarded irrespective of the author.

The winning contestant will be presented with a valuable collection of O. Henry's works, following the close of the contest.
The subject of the short story is to be chosen by the writer, and no definite limitation as to length
is set, although contestants are urged to remember that the length of the manuscript should not exceed that essential to
the proper development of the chosen theme.

The rules governing the contest are as follows:
1. The contest shall be open to all students, enrolled during the fall of 1923, in any college or university
of North Carolina. Certificate of enrollment from the proper college authorities should accompany the manuscript, and the ruling of the
State Department of Public Instruction as to what institutions shall come within the class of eligible institutions shall be final.
2. All manuscripts shall be plainly typewritten on one side of the paper. The full name, the school or college,
and the local address of the writer, together with a statement showing enrollment in a given school or college shall
be enclosed with the manuscript in a sealed envelope. The manuscript itself shall bear no marks to indicate its authorship.
3. All manuscripts shall be sent to the office of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, Raleigh, N. C., and
shall be postmarked on or before April 1, 1924. The envelope in which the manuscript is mailed shall be marked
in addition to the address with the words “Short Story Contest,” written plainly across the face of the envelope. Each
manuscript as received in the office of the State Superintendent will be given a number and the same number given
to the sealed envelope containing the name and credentials. The envelopes will be retained in the office of the State
Superintendent and only the numbered manuscript sent to the judges. The identity of the contestant selected by the judges will,
therefore, be unknown until the sealed envelope containing the winning number is opened by the State Superintendent.
4. No definite limitation as to length is set on the manuscript, but contestants are urged to remember that the
length of the manuscript should not exceed that essential to the proper development of the theme chosen.

INCREASED INTEREST IN SUNDAY SCHOOLS SHOWN

At the “Y” Sunday Schools last Sunday the attendance was much better than it was on the previous Sunday. There
were 20 students present and a total attendance of 254 at these Sunday Schools.

There were six students and 43 present at Shearer. A teachers’ meeting was held after Sunday School at which plans
were made to have a Foreign Mission Day on the second Sunday in February. There were 65 present at Cornelius,
four of whom were student-teachers. Tom Barr led the singing and Wade Allison played the piano. J. C. McJunkin and
W. A. Christian went to Hobson's Chapel. The attendance there was 40. Yeargen and Purdy were the students attending the
Mill Chapel. The attendance was 30. Dr. Harding took several students to the convict camp, where he spoke. The number
of inmates is 60, all of whom were present. Bill Crane and John McRae gave a duet which was enjoyed
by all. The other students present were Piggy Martin and D. H. Stewart.

I. E. Hager organized a Sunday School at Oak Grove just before Christmas. This was an important station until this
year. No one had charge of the work last fall until Hager took it up. There is a bright future
for the work at this station. Four classes have been organized and teachers secured for them all. The average attendance
has been 26, although there were only 16 present on the past Sunday.

Leighton Green has been put in charge of the “Y” Sunday School work to take the place of Julian Briggs
who resigned before the holidays. At a meeting of the student Sunday School workers held in the gym Saturday night,
ways and means of raising the standards of work and of securing the co-operation of leaders in the various Sunday
Schools were discussed. Green requested that each leader as far as possible give a detailed report of the attendance, spirit,
and work of those under his charge. Mr. Williams suggested that workers meet at stated intervals to discuss problems arising
in the various Sunday Schools.

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT HALL OF FAME
(Continued from page 2)

Charlotte club, a member of the Sally League, and friends hope that he will make good. Pat was equally at
home on a hardwood court as on a baseball diamond. He made his letter and two stars during the four
years at Davidson. At the end of his first year on the quintet, he was elected captain, and in his
Junior year led the team to a very successful end. Again athletic reviewers and coaches saw in Pat a man
of stellar worth, and he was chosen as an All-State guard. In the last year that he was with his
Alma Mater, he played at the guard position again, and even in this berth, he was high scorer for the
season. Pat seldom followed his shots up, for there was no need. His main position of shooting was from the
center of the floor, and the hearts of opponents no doubt took a downward drop when they saw him ready
to make a shot. He sent the ball through the air with an accuracy that was uncanny.

CALENDAR

Thursday, January 17—
7:00 P. M. — Philanthropic Literary Society.
7:00 P. M. — Eumenean Literary Society.
8:00 P. M. — Davidson vs. Statesville A. A. in Statesville.
9:00 P. M. — Reporters’ Club.

Friday, January 18—
7:30 P. M. — Polity Club.
10:00 P. M. — Gamma Sigma Epsilon.

Saturday, January 19—
3:15 P. M. — Movies—“Enemies of Women.”
8:00 P. M. — Basketball—Davidson vs. U.N.C., in Charlotte.

Sunday, January 20—
10:00 A. M. — Bible Classes.
1:15 P. M. — C. E. Training Class.
2:00 P. M. — Ministerial Band.
6:00 P. M. — “Y” Song Service.

Monday, January 21—
7:00 P. M. — Sigma Pi Sigma.
7:00 P. M. — Davidsonian Staff.
9:00 P. M. — Sigma Upsilon.

Tuesday, January 22—
7:00 P. M. — Pandeinic Society.
7:00 P. M. — Metrophilian Literary Society.
9:00 P. M. — Court of Control.

Wednesday, January 23—
7:00 P. M. — Senior Class.
7:30 P. M. — Prayer Meeting (Mission Study).
9:00 P. M. — Aesculapean Club.

Town News

Miss Gordon Baskerville, of Charleston, returned from Virginia with Mrs. A.B. Robson. After spending last weekend in Davidson, she left
for her home. She will resume her work as secretary of the Y.W.C.A. of that city.

Misses L. and M. Young spent several days in Charlotte last week, visiting their aunt, Mrs. A. L. Smith.

Dr. and Mrs. McGeachy, of Charlotte, spent several days with Dr. and Mrs. Harding last week.

The Civic League Club met Tuesday afternoon. The program included the installation of officers for the new year.

Missionary study classes started at the church last Wednesday afternoon. The classes were divided, and teachers assigned various rooms. After
the lessons were discussed they met in the lecture room for a short prayer meeting. The subject for discussion was
“The White Fields of Japan.” The teachers were Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. F. Hood, Dr. W. J. Martin, and
Mrs. A. Currie. The classes will continue through four weeks, meeting every Wednesday night.

Mr. and Mrs. Plumer Smith were the guests at the home of Mrs. N. L. Barnes while in Davidson.

Miss Minnie and Victoria Withers are spending several months in Prattville, Alabama.

WRESTLING MAT BURNED IN SMALL FIRE AT GYM

On Wednesday, January 9th, at 7:30 p.m., a small fire destroyed one of the wrestling mats at the gymnasium. Basketball
practice was being held when Charlie smelled the smoke and discovered the fire. He quickly spread the alarm, and Mr.
Van Sant, who was near, appeared with a fire-extinguisher. With the aid of Captain George, who is ever present in
the time of fires, Mr. Van Sant was able to put out the blaze without difficulty. The damage done was
very small as the mat destroyed was an old one. It was extremely fortunate that the fire was discovered so
soon because if it had been left unchecked, it could have caused significant damage.Given more time, a disastrous conflagration might
have resulted. The origin of the fire is unknown, but there are several theories about it. The most likely one
is that a match was dropped upon the mat sometime during the wrestling practice in the afternoon.

Miss Blanche McNeill, of Charlotte, spent the weekend with Miss Louise Cowan. By uncanny accuracy, and this year the position
of floor guard presents a problem which Coach Monk is finding hard to solve. Though Pat never made his letter
in football, he made those who did work for their positions. Always on hand for practices, he worked with a
dogged determination, and when players saw themselves pitted against Pat in practice, they knew that they would have a grim
fight to best him. He made many of the trips with the team, showing that he did not miss the
varsity far. In addition to his athletic proclivities, Pat has been described as unexcelled while at Davidson, due primarily to
the fact that he was an all-round fellow. He took a prominent part in the social activities of the campus.
Notable among his attainments was his election as president of the Y. M. C. A. He taught a number of
small boys in a Sunday School class and was interested in movements for the social good of all. He was
a true gentleman wherever you met him. All-State in basketball and baseball, captain of both varsity basketball and baseball teams
at one time, a “D” man in both of the named sports, with three stars in baseball and two in
basketball, a leader of the campus, a true gentleman always—that feebly characterizes the Pat Crawford that will be remembered as
a great son of Davidson.

Miss Kitty Martin, who has been in a Charlotte sanatorium for a week, has greatly improved. Her friends will be
glad to know that she will be able to come home within a few days. Mr. J. M. McConnell entertained
a few friends at dinner last Saturday. Miss Ellen Black entertained a few friends at her home on Concord Street
last Monday afternoon. The game of the afternoon was Mah Jongg; afterwards, each guest went to the kitchen and enjoyed
the remainder of the afternoon making and eating candy. Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld has returned to Davidson from Waycross, Ga.,
after a short stay with her parents. The Book Lover's Club will meet with Miss Kate Douglas Friday afternoon. Mrs.
Douglas and Miss Thompson will have charge of the program. The subject will be Mohammedan Architecture. Huie McConnell was taken
to Dr. Long’s Sanatorium in Statesville recently, and within a few days he will undergo an operation for appendicitis.

Literary Societies

SIGMA UPSILON MEET FOR INTERESTING DISCUSSION

The Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity met last Monday in the Pi Kappa Hall. A paper was presented by J. H.
Davis on Eugene O'Neal. W. F. Gallaway gave one of his original stories which was particularly interesting. The fraternity has
been having some very interesting meetings in which the leading writers of America and of other countries have been studied.
It was decided that the same study would be conducted during the next month. After the regular program, a general
discussion was held. The Sigma Upsilon has been very active this year.

At the regular meeting of the Pandecinic Society on January 8th, the following program was rendered: Declamation by H. G.
Goodykoontz; Current Events by L. B. Gibbs; Debate, Resolved: That the President of the United States should be elected by
a direct presidential primary. The debaters were: J. S. McFall and R. M. Carr on the affirmative against J. B.
Webb and B. Y. Pitts on the negative. The house, acting as judge, decided in favor of the negative. The
new officers, elected at a previous meeting and to be installed on January 15 are: A. P. Hudgins, president; L.
B. Gibbs, vice-president; L. L. Deck, secretary; O. J. Allison, first critic; R. W. Oeland, second critic; F. T. Franklin,
sergeant-at-arms. Since two men on each side of the debate were unable to take part, the house, after much discussion
on the question, voted that the two who remained should debate alone. The affirmative was upheld by J. I. Smith
and the negative by A. M. Hillhouse. The judges decided in favor of the affirmative.

The Junior Eumenean Society was admitted as a body into the regular society. A review of current events was given
by P. B. Freeland, and the reviewer gave a criticism of the program which was complimentary to the performers. January
15th was set as the date for the Fresh-Soph declamation.

The Phi Society resumed its work after the holidays by a meeting on Thursday, January 11th. The affirmative side of
the debate was upheld by C. C. McMillan and J. W. Crinkley, those on the negative being B. U. Ratchford
and W. S. Gordon. The committee rendered its decision in favor of the negative. In an extemporaneous debate, interesting arguments
were advanced on all sides of the query: Resolved, That the faculty should serve hot chocolate to the students at
chapel. J. R. Gudger of the affirmative contested with W. G. Houck of the negative. The decision was given to
the affirmative. Two orations were delivered: The first by M. S. Beall, on “The Importance of Literary Societies,” and the
second by J. P. Hendrix, who spoke on “Better Athletics.” Hendrix strongly condemned the practice of colleges buying athletes.

The program of the Metrophilian Society for its first meeting after Christmas was entirely extemporaneous. The debate was, Resolved: That
the Student Council should prohibit throwing water out of dormitory windows. The decision was finally rendered in favor of the
affirmative. There was some business to be transacted, and Nat Faison was elected to membership in the society. He will
be taken in at the next meeting. It was decided that the society should hold a feed Tuesday night at
ten o’clock.

Miss Susie Jackson entertained a number of young friends at a party last Monday afternoon. Cake and ambrosia were served
as refreshments.

South’s Sweetest Singers Are Booked For Davidson

Emory University Glee Club Will Play Before Local Audience

One of the most attractive musical engagements of the year is that of the Emory University Glee Club, which is
scheduled to give a performance here in the college auditorium on February 7th. This aggregation of songsters is one of
the most popular organizations of its kind in the South, and has been given by the leading newspapers of the
southern states the title “South’s Sweetest Singers.” It will be remembered that the Emory club made the longest tour last
year that has ever been attempted by a southern college musical organization, giving a successful concert in Havana, Cuba. This
was the first concert to be given on foreign soil by a southern college glee club, and the Havana newspapers
were enthusiastic in their praise. The sixth annual fall tour was begun on December 1st, and covered the states of
Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Louisiana, and Mississippi. The fall tour is stated to have been the most successful in the history
of the club and at every point the singers were praised for their splendid entertainment, exhibiting artistic ensemble work and
amazing versatility.

The program this year is entirely new and different. The first half, under the direction of Doctor Malcolm H. Dewey,
well-known glee club director, is devoted to a number of compositions of Beethoven, Handel, Schubert, and other masters, and is
one that will appeal to lovers of music of the higher type. In this half also, Alton O’Steen, versatile accompanist
and a veteran on the piano, will give several selections. With the second half comes a change from the sublime
to the ridiculous. A feature is the screamingly funny English farce, “Charley’s Aunt,” revised especially for the Emory club. A
full concert orchestra accompanies the Emory singers, and these instrumentalists give a variety of numbers ranging from an overture by
Offenbach to the latest jazz. The varsity quartet, an instrumental foursome, and Samuel Proger, noted young violinist, have special numbers.
Another pianist, Tommy James, tickles the ivories in the jazz session. The club will make its tour in a special
car bearing a large Emory banner, and a large audience is expected to welcome the South’s Sweetest Singers at their
concert at Davidson.

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT

DEBONAIR, comfortable, tailored with the care that in-

DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50

Manufactured and sold exclusively by

NAT LUXENBERG & Bros.

New address N. W. Cor. 13th St. New York City 841 Broadway Stuyvesant 9898

Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 200 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.

Our style-memo. book will be sent free on request.

CENTRAL Dyeing and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection

Largest and Oldest HAT SHOP 8 E. Trade St. Pressing Best CHARLOTTE
