THEDAVIDSONIAN
Vol. XII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 30, 1924 No. 7

FURMAN FIGHTS HARD TO SCORE ON DAVIDSON TEAM

Dr. W. T. Thompson of Union Seminary is Speaker at Series of Talks This Week

College Boys Enthusiastic Over Heart-to-Heart Talks

HERE THREE DAYS

Proves One of Most Popular Speakers on Campus in a Long Time

The initial service of the annual Y. M. C. A. evangelistic services was held in Shearer Hall, Sunday evening, conducted
by Dr. William Taliafero Thompson, of Union Theological Seminary. Music for the occasion, as for the meetings throughout the series,
was in charge of the Seminary quartet, composed of Buchanan, Gibson, McKelvey, and McGeachy. Buchanan led the singing, and the
quartet rendered "Lord, I Want To Be" during the opening exercises. Hayden Hollingsworth was pianist, and John Gibbs offered prayers
during the service. Harry Price presided, introducing Dr. Thompson. R. W. Oeland made announcements in regard to meetings and interviews
with Dr. Thompson.

Dr. Thompson's text was John 15:15: “Henceforth I call you not servants but friends.” “Next to the relation of a
Saviour, the relation of friendship to Christ is the greatest thing to me,” said the speaker in beginning. “Friends are
the greatest things in the world. Friends give color and vividness to life.

“It is not so much the buildings, not the grounds, nor the faculty that makes college a power in a
man’s life as it is the friendships that one forms at college. The man who goes through college without forming
at least one true friendship, the friendship of a man into whose heart you can look and say, ‘Soul, I
am thine,’ and who can look back and say, ‘Yea, soul, and I am thine,’ has lost the biggest thing
to be secured at college.

“Why do we have aspirations, ambition to succeed in life? Because of those friendships in our lives and their influence
on us. Our mothers, fathers, sweethearts, and other friends give us aspirations toward the nobler things in life.

“We are constantly reaching up for friendship. Yet we have not found a friend so sympathetic that he can be
in full sympathy with us, a friend with all the knowledge we need, a friend who can give us the
power we need in our lives. We search and reach in vain. And then we hear Him say, ‘Henceforth I
call you not servants but friends.’

“The vital essence of Christianity is friendship with Jesus; to miss this friendship means missing the biggest thing in life.
This friendship with Christ is entered into just as any other friendship, by our own free will. We give ourselves
into His hands, and take Him as our Saviour.

“Why ought we love Jesus? Why ought we love anyone? We love Him for what He is, for what He
does for us, and for what we can do for Him.

“What do we want in anyone to be a friend? First, we want truth. We can't love someone we can't
trust. Jesus before the Sanhedrin signed His own death warrant by speaking the truth.

“We want a brave man. To win the love of a man, one must be brave. Not only physical but
moral bravery are manifest in Him. He was brave enough to stand out against the crowd. Jesus entering Jerusalem with
the shadow of the cross over the city was a great example of bravery.

“We want a noble, a holy man. ‘Men are wistful for holiness.’ The focused eyes of two thousand years have
been unable to detect a flaw in His character.

“Again, we want a friend who loves."

(Continued on page 7)

Clemson Tiger Freshmen Beaten by Rawson’s Team

Davidson Fresh Win Fourth Straight by 13-6 Score—Flashy Aerial Attack

In a football game of thrilling end runs and brilliant work on both sides, the Davidson Wildkittens lengthened their string
of victories to four when they defeated the Clemson College first-year men here, Friday, October 24th, by a 13-6 score.
Though only a small crowd watched the game on Richardson Field, the two teams showed immense fighting spirit and considerably
more than the usual good playing for Freshmen squads.

The first touchdown for the Davidson one-year-olds came soon after the initial whistle. Dick Grey bucked the ball over and
kicked goal. This followed a 16-yard pass, Grey to Overton, after McKachern, for Davidson, had gained possession of the ball
on a blocked kick on Clemson's 25-yard line.

The two teams fought until the last moments of the first half, the young Tigers strengthening once when Davidson got
the ball within a few yards of their goal. Taking the ball on their own 35-yard line, the Clemson yearlings
started a passing attack that swept the Davidson crew down the field, carrying the ball over on the third successive
pass.

In the last two quarters both teams rushed the ball considerable distance, but never consistently enough to score. McEachern scored
the second Davidson touchdown when he smothered an attempted pass under his own goal posts.

(Continued on page 6)

Jack McNair of Junior Class Called by Death After a Losing Fight

Lost Fight for Life With Pneumonia—Was Well Liked by Students

The blow of death on October 22nd, came as a surprise and lamentable sorrow to the students of Davidson College.
After a short period of 10 days of illness, the end came to a strong but failing fight against a
complication of pneumonia in the Presbyterian Hospital, in Charlotte. The body, accompanied by the young man’s parents, was sent to
Jacksonville, Florida, for burial.

Jack McNair was the last son of Dr. S. McNair, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Jacksonville, Fla. He
entered Davidson College in September, 1922, with the class of '26, being a Junior at the time of his death.
Quickly coming into the friendship and trust of the members of his own class, he assumed in a very short
time the position of friend to every man on the campus. To those who knew Jack as a classmate, little
need be said as to the traits that evidenced themselves in the daily associations of class room work. As a
familiar face to other boys upon the campus little need be said as to the high esteem and fine moral
honor that was naturally his through mere acquaintance. Always ready to extend to anyone the kindness of his heart and
the help of any sort which might have lain in his power to offer, Jack's absence from among us will
serve as a constant reminder of all that he meant to us, and as a constant reminder of sorrow that
one so worthy should have been taken away.

The funeral of the unfortunate student was held in Charlotte, Thursday. As an escort of honor a number of the
members of (Continued on page 5)

Davidson Outplays the South Carolina Methodists in Columbia Feature Game

Who’s Who Contains the Names of Davidson Profs.

Drs. Martin, Hood and MacConnell Mentioned in Catalog of Prominent People

Three members of the faculty of Davidson College have the honor of being listed in the latest issue of “Who's
Who in America.” Doctors W. J. Martin, J. W. McConnell, and Frazer Hood are among those who are mentioned as
being leaders in their professions in the United States.

“Who's Who" is a directory of the leading men and women in the United States, whose names appear in this
book. Those selected are on account of special prominence in creditable lines of effort, making them the subject of extensive
interest. Besides those people who are of interest because of position, only those are listed who have accomplished something out
of the ordinary, something which distinguishes them from the vast majority of their contemporaries.

Dr. Martin, after graduating from Davidson, became professor ofof South Carolina, at the University of Virginia. Receiving the M.D. degree
from the University of Virginia, he came back to Davidson as Professor of Chemistry in 1896. He served in this
capacity until 1912, when he was appointed president. Under his supervision, the college from Sciences and of president became a
significant factor in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Besides being a prominent educator, Dr. Martin has been active in church work
and was elected Moderator of the General Assembly. (Continued on page 7)

Student Organizations at Davidson Offer a Diversified Field of Activity for College Men

Four Contributions in 1924 College Anthology
O’Connor and Patterson Have Poems Accepted by Publishers for Annual Publication

Davidson College did not get full credit for the number of her poetic aspirants when only two were mentioned in
last week's issue of The Davidsonian. The College Anthology, published by the Stafford Publishing Company, this year contains four poems
whose authors are now students at Davidson. Two have been mentioned, C. F. Smith and A. M. Martin. The others
are E. P. O'Connor and P. M. Patterson, whose poems also were awarded honorable mention.

Various Campus Activities Taken up With Idea of Helping New Men

“A chain is as strong as its weakest link.” No truer proverb ever fell from the lips of man. No
maxim has proved itself so true through ages of experience, and no apothegm has a more direct application. With the
proverbial “chain,” so a college is just as strong as the weakest organization that makes up its list of activities.
Davidson College is exceptionally fortunate in having a system of student organizations that serve a two-fold purpose. These organizations offer
to the student a valuable opportunity for experience, and they give to the college self-government without direct faculty control.

Included in this list of governing and regulatory organizations are the Student Council, the Board of Control, the Y. M.
C. A., and the Athletic Association. To these institutions are referred matters of control and matters that vitally affect the
government of the student body. First in importance of the aforementioned organizations is the Student Council, which acts in accordance
with the constitution of the college as a court of judgment, convicting and sentencing violators of the provisions of the
constitution. This body is made up of 15 members, five of whom are student body (Continued on page 5)

Lombard Entertainers in an Artistic Performance
Three Talented Performers Provide an Evening of Fun for all Attending

The first of the series of entertainments to be given here by the Piedmont Lyceum Bureau, under the auspices of
the Junior class, was given in Shearer Hall last Thursday night at 8:15. A very interesting program was rendered by
the Lombard Entertainers composed of Harry Lombard, a baritone and impersonator; Miss Fairchild, a pianist and reader; and Miss Phillips,
a violinist.

The program was opened by a Japanese musical scene, the stage setting, the costumes, and songs being Oriental. Immediately after
this, Lombard introduced his company to the audience. There followed a variety of songs, readings, and impersonations which met with
the hearty approval of the listeners. Miss Fairchild’s readings of the village gossip and the old farmer and Mr. Lombard’s
impersonation of the Italian organ grinder received the most applause. The closing scene was a musical comedy. The setting was
in the old home town. The boy who had run away to make his fortune had returned home and incidentally
came to see his girl. (Continued on page 2)

The Wildcats faced a ton of weight that would be pitted against them, and despite the fact that the Wildcats
lost the game, 6 to 0, this great difference in weight did not dampen their fighting spirit. It was this
weight, however, that was the final cause of the score, for had not the Furman team been so hefty, they
would have been unable to break through the line, block a punt, and then pick up the ball and run
for a touchdown. It was a great exhibition of football by both teams, but the Wildcats had the advantage. The
spectators left the field admiring the Wildcats for their plucky and determined fight against the far heavier Furman eleven, and
they left the field with an impression of the fighting ability of the Wildcats.

In the last quarter, there was a never-to-be-forgotten demonstration of pure grit pitted against avoirdupois. The Furman team weighed 15
pounds more per man than the Red and Black warriors, but when Coleman recovered a fumble on the three-yard line,
the Furman backs were unable to score in four attempts. The onlookers had resigned themselves to a second touchdown against
Davidson and little realized the stamina that played out. The man who lacked two pounds of two hundred, along with
Herlong, Furman’s outstanding player, could not push the ball in, and the pigskin changed hands six inches from the goal
line.

It should be remembered that the Davidson team was playing without Sappenfield and Laird, two of the regular Varsity men.
Sappenfield, quarterback, and Laird, tackle, are good men on the Wildcat team, and both were missed in the game with
Furman. The generalship of Sappenfield has been watched with interest this season, and the work of Laird at tackle is
a big factor in the Davidson line.

The Furman team defeated the Wildcats last Wednesday, administering the bitter taste of a team that lost. But the Wildcats
came back, conscious that they had played a great game, and that it was only because of a bad break
that the Purple Hurricane crossed the goal line of the Wildcats for the first time this season and thereby won
the game with that lone six points.

Popsy Hunt, who has been sent into games at moments when a drop kick or place kick was wanted, went
into the battle Wednesday, and when he came out, he was covered with glory. In the second half, he made
a play described as a “hair-raising play.” The ball was snapped and Sapp passed to Bohannon. The ball evaded his
grasp, was juggled by two of the Furman players, and Hunt then reached far out and grabbed it before it
touched the ground. He was almost doubled over when he caught it but staggered along for a number of yards,
bringing a thrill to the spectators. Had he been able to straighten up and go on, he could have made
a touchdown since he had an open field ahead of him. Again he snapped a second pass, and this time
made 26 yards, while for a third time he brought credit to himself when he circled Furman’s right end for
25 yards.

Tom Baker played a brilliant game at tackle, several times breaking through the line to nab the Furman backs, and
even sometimes breaking through and getting the (Continued on page 5)
