THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

VICTORY CAFE
A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service
West Trade and Poplar Streets
Charlotte
We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE” CHARLOTTE

Town News
Miss Bess Blakenly, who is on a furlough from Japan, will give a talk on next Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.
to the Ladies’ Auxiliary. The meeting will be in the basement of the church.

Miss Jean Martin spent the weekend at home.

Mrs. R. C. Knox has returned from Hickory, after spending several days with her friends.

Miss V. Currie entertained the Book Lovers’ Club on Friday afternoon.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell has returned from a hospital in Charlotte and has taken up his duties as college physician,
although not fully recovered in health.

Mrs. K. J. Foreman had as her guests for dinner Friday evening, Rev. and Mrs. Yates, returned missionaries from China,
and Miss Shaw and Mrs. Robson.

Mrs. J. P. Williams had Mr. and Mrs. K. J. Foreman to dinner Thursday evening in honor of Mrs. Foreman’s
birthday.

Mr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle visited in Salem last weekend.

JAZZ TO REIGN SUPREME
(Continued from page 1)
This orchestra has been almost as popular as the singers themselves because of the brand of music that they put
out. Every one of the members of the party can sing as only a negro is able to, and is
brim full of music. Each year the members of this entertainment group make a tour all over the country, and
everywhere they are heard they make admirers who are always eager to hear them again and again. These men have
made quite a name for themselves in most of the large cities in the surrounding states as well as in
all other places they have been, and have a reputation established that forces them to work hard to keep. They
make a specialty of visiting all of the schools and colleges in all nearby states, and have in this way
made quite a hit with the young people of the surrounding country. They sometimes visit each school twice a year,
as they did Davidson last year. It is hoped that everyone will keep in mind that the reason for the
advanced prices asked for the seats is done so solely for the benefit of helping The Davidsonian, and that whether
people are able to attend or not, they will buy a ticket.

Wharton Tells Embryo Preachers of His Work With Northern Fellow
He Did Settlement Work in New York

Benton Wharton, of the Senior Class, spoke to the Ministerial Band last Sunday on his experiences during the summer while
doing welfare work under the Y. M. C. A. in New York. He characterized it as seven weeks of discovery,
for it was during this time that he learned a great deal of how living conditions are in the tenements
of a large city, and of the ideas held by the people of those districts. For seven weeks a number
of college men from colleges in the east and southeast were engaged in this work. They worked in pairs. Wharton,
and a man from State College had charge of a settlement among the Italians on the west side. In the
vacation Bible school they held, the children were taught daily verses of scripture and songs, and the boys were taught
handicraft. In the afternoon playground hours were conducted where the children were given a place to play among the right
sort of traffic without having to find pleasure in the streets. Once each week the whole group met to study
and discuss their work, and took trips to different points of interest to study existing conditions. At these group meetings
the theme of the whole work was brought out: the people among whom this work was being done are human
beings, real and have ideals just as anyone else. The main thing is to direct the attainment of those ideals,
so that they will be reached in a sane way. There are evils to be combatted, to be sure, because
the people have not had the opportunities they should have had. The only way in which these evils can be
combatted is by use of the principles laid down by Jesus Christ. The Church was organized to fight the evils
which make people live in such conditions as the people of the tenement districts of a large city live in,
but it can only do so after a scientific study has been made of the causes.

Dr. McConnell is Back After Extended Illness
Popular College Physician Again Resumes Duties in Class Room and Infirmary

The students of Davidson extended to Dr. J. W. MacConnell a most hearty welcome last week as he appeared in
chapel, ready to resume his work, which has been delayed by his recent illness. After taking a pleasure trip to
Canada and Niagara in the earlier part of the summer, Dr. MacConnell worked for a month in a New York
hospital. From there he returned to Davidson to again take up his work as college physician and instructor in Physiology
and Hygiene, but immediately after the opening of college, illness necessitated his going to the Charlotte Sanatorium where he was
treated for ten days. Dr. MacConnell is glad to be back again. He says that he is feeling fine, and
aside from a slight loss in weight he doesn’t appear to have been greatly affected by his illness.confinement. He is
in very good physical condition, having expressed his belief that he will be able to carry out his work for
the year entirely. Certain rumors would have it that Dr. MacConnell will have to return sometime in the near future
for an operation, but unless unfavorable developments take place, this will not be necessary before next summer.

JAS. C. HARPER CUP (Continued from page 1)
room and in athletics while he was at Davidson. The Quips and Cranks of 1915 has the following to say
about him: ‘Harpy is a hard student; a good athlete, an unconquered ladies’ man, and a jolly good fellow; he
is the sort of man Davidson is proud to claim.” Harper played in the orchestra for four years, sang in
the Glee Club for three, was secretary of the “Y” cabinet, on the varsity track team, and supervisor and critic
of the Phi Literary Society. He served on the staff of the magazine and was exchange editor for one year.
He was not a member of a Greek-letter fraternity while at Davidson.

First Conference Outing Was Held by “Y” Cabinet
Student Leaders on Overnight Jaunt Discuss Issues Facing College

On Friday afternoon of the past week, the members of the “Y” Cabinet went out on the first of several
outings planned for this year. This overnight trip was mainly for discussing some of the many problems of the college.
Friday night after supper, the main topics for discussion were the needs and problems which the campus presents to the
“Y” this year. After a lengthy discussion, all retired.

The first thing Saturday morning was breakfast. After breakfast, another meeting was held at which more specific problems and the
ways they could be met were discussed. The main problems discussed were: Life Work, Sex, Incentive Thinking, and The Student
and His Relation to Christ.

The names of the cabinet members are Bub Ocland, Mae Beall, J. Briggs, T. F. Staley, Piggy Martin, C. Furches,
W. C. Ramsay, A. N. Moffat, L. B. Gibbs, Ben Wharton, A. H. Hyak Price, J. D. Laws, J. P.
Hendrix, Zander McCallister, and Mr. J. P. Williams. All the mentioned men attended the meeting except Jim Hendrix and McCallister,
who were away on the football trip. The supper and breakfast, being the only two meals necessary for the trip,
were furnished by three of the ladies of the community, they being Mesdames Williams, Arbuckle, and Jackson. Blankets were carried
along and spread over straw which was upon the floor, there being no beds available. The cabinet members returned Saturday
morning at noon.

CAMPUS FOOTBALL HOLDS SWAY ON GRASSY PLOTS

Football is in full swing. There is a game every afternoon, and the stars are many. Yes, it is football,
and the once grassy plot behind the illustrious armory is fast becoming a dust-bedecked gridiron, all of which eloquently bespeaks
the fact that football is rapidly coming into its own. There are men on the field that the average man
would never guess to be football players. Suddenly, one of them forges himself on your attention as he deftly snatches
a well-hurled pass from the elements and gracefully settles behind the goal line amidst the cheers of his valiant mates
and the jeers of his most worthy opponents. Are the opponents disheartened? No, a thousand times no, for very suddenly
a beautifully blocked kick is recovered, and someone starts running with it in the direction which luckily happens to be
the defender's goal line. Now we have two men—makers of touchdowns, holding out their chests as likely candidates for the
All-American when all hopes are vanquished, for suddenly a new star appears on the horizon—not large, not big, not fast,
just the slow plodding sort, the kind who starts but never arrives, when suddenly from seemingly nowhere the ball comes
into his possession and around the end he dashes, side-stepping here, hurdling there, walking here, running there, and finally resting
prostrate on the ground—fifty yards from the goal. All that now remains is to identify some of these heroes whom
we have mentioned. First and foremost arises the name of the rapid plodder, Peter Boger Bost, under whose able captaincy
the famous Malloy brothers have gained renown throughout the entire half-acre of the playing field. As the most interesting opponents,
we see the smiling face of Spec McConnell, who every now and then manages to miss the ball, and last
and forever, Al Simpson leads them all as a man.

Since 1868 THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GREETINGS--- 28ers!
Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes--for ANY occasion, and he'll tell you “GILMER-MOORE’S” in
Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear---they’re all to be found here NOW!

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE
SHOES LUGGAGE

“Working Your Way” Made Feasible

Writing life insurance has enabled many a man to pay his way through college. It is a dignified calling and
a true social service. To induce your fellows to form habits of thrift, to obligate them to put by a
little of their income, to safeguard them against future loss of earning power—is a form of effort that brings keen
satisfaction as well as profit. These are only a few of the reasons why the insurance business is today attracting
the very best brains of America. Write for the full particulars of a plan whereby you can assist yourself through
college, and, at the same time, prepare for a profitable and satisfactory business career.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. Gunter, Vice-Pres. & Agency Manager

New York Cafe
Davidson, N. C.

When Hungry Call On Us

Dyeing
Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection

Largest
Oldest
Best

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE
