6. THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

which spoke well for the musical talent of the men who compose these groups.

Glee Club Entertains To A Queen's Taste

practically all of which were used on the South Carolina-Georgia trip. The arrangements were good, and the foursome was in tip-top form.

Reception Tendered Musicians After Concert

The Davidson musicians, en masse, performed for the Queens in Charlotte last Saturday night, playing with a vim and enthusiasm that brought back memories of the Southern jaunt of last Fall. The choruses and vocal numbers were well received and the young ladies were particularly generous with their applause. The crowning event of the evening’s entertainment was the Jazz Orchestra’s triumphant march into the hearts of the entire Queens audience. The syncopators were called back time and time again to play “just one more.” The symphony orchestra and the mandolin guitar trio were received with enthusiasm which spoke well for the musical talent of the men who compose these groups.

Mrs. Walter Henderson entertained the Young Matron’s Club Friday afternoon at a St. Patrick’s party. The home was appropriately decorated in a color scheme of green. Rook was played at several tables. Green ice cream and cake with green icing were served as refreshments.

Misses Smith and McDowell from Charlotte visited the Misses Young last week.

FOR SALE
UP-TO-DATE MEAT MARKET
With Well Established and Growing Trade
All Equipment New
Forced to Sell Account Ill Health
G. E. BRANTLEY
Davidson, N. C.

See this Exhibit of correctly designed men’s clothing carefully tailored in the English fashion from distinctive imported and domestic fabrics.
READY TO WEAR
Exhibiting at PARLOR OF WEST
MARCH 20 AND 21
Brisk Brothers
40 WEST 50th STREET, NEW YORK

See also THE KENWORTHY, a conservative Scotch shoe for men.

For Women Only!
Do You Like To Have A BIG TIME?
If you do, we can interest you in a sure-fire proposition. Here It Is! Beginning with April 16th and running (not walking) through the 21st there will be held at Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., one of those aforesaid occasions. If It’s Fun To Do, We'll Do It! This being Leap Year, it is very easy to get in on this proposition. Just sign the coupon and mail to our representative. Everything will then be done to prepare for your entertainment while you are in our midst. Come One, Come All! This may sound like a wildcat proposition but it is a gilt-edged security that a grand time will be had by all.

(Name of our representative)
You may expect me sometime Wednesday, April 16th. I’ll be so glad to come.
Yours for a big time,
(No aliases accepted)

The quartet sang a total of seven selections.

Men and women are needed who will pour out their lives in the home mission field, rather than seeking what the world calls a bigger service. Christ needs men who are willing to serve and obey. The ablest man in the army was not always the most desirable; the most desirable men were those who were willing to serve and obey.

Women who have been lifted from the depths have met a real need.

The new parliamentary form of procedure that has been adopted in all the societies has gotten off to a flying start. All of the societies are extending cordial invitations to non-literary society men to attend their meetings, feeling that they have something worthwhile to offer that will interest even the least concerned.

The meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society last Tuesday night was one of the best since the Parliamentary plan was instituted. The subject discussed was, Resolved, That the issuing of Federal injunctions in labor disputes be forbidden by Congress. The speakers for the bill were G. M. Eddington and Deck. Those speaking against the bill were H. L. Currie and G. M. Foard.

A. H. Hollingsworth, leader of the Tories, in a very forceful speech urged that his partisans support their party to the fullest. The enthusiasm of the society in the parliamentary plan is shown by the number of men who wish to take the floor and express their views on the subject under discussion. It is generally conceded that the new plan will be of great benefit to the society.

Eumenean

Rev. Walter G. Somerville, of Hillsville, Va., talked at the “Y” meeting Sunday evening on Home Mission Work. He began by saying that there is a temptation for college men to feel that their hands are tied while in college and that they do not have a part in the work of God until they go out into life. He pointed out the need for students to begin working for God while in college.

Mr. Somerville first presented the need of home mission work. He said, “There are sections in West Virginia where there are four times as many unreached souls as there are in like sections of Belgian Congo. In Arkansas, there are a million souls who are unreached.”

He told that in Carroll County, Virginia, there were 17,000 souls who were unreached with the true Gospel of Jesus Christ. He said that there were sections in this county more needy than Hillsville and the surrounding country where the Allen men closed the courts several years ago.

He said, “The greatest need of home missions is in our great cities. There are thousands of people in the city who never darken the doors of a church.”The question, Resolved, That Congress should pass a bill prohibiting the courts from issuing injunctions in connection with labor disputes, was discussed. He then showed how this need is to be met by lifting up Jesus Christ. He told a story of a banquet given in New York for two hundred young men and women who were ready to sail for the foreign field. One man, in commenting on the fine spirit of these young people, made the remark, “Did you ever stop to think that we export the best?”

Mr. Somerville went on to show that the best are needed for the home field as well as for the foreign. He said, “We need men like Edward Guerrant, who gave his life in the Kentucky mountains, and Edgar Tufts, who spent a quarter of a century in the mission work of western North Carolina. We need men like Graham Campbell, who is burying his life in the colored mission of the South.” He continued, “God give us more men like these who are willing to obey. God wants men who will obey Him.”

The discussion was kept going mainly by Rogers and Brown for the affirmative, and Hopkins and Laws for the negative. The house voted in favor of the negative at the close of the discussion. The speakers were then criticized by J. L. McLean, the reviewer, and those who had taken part in the debate were recommended for credits.

Metrophilian
At the last meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society, the installation of officers, which was to take place, was postponed on account of the absence of the president due to an injury. C. E. Hodgin gave an oration, the subject of which was The Road to National Safety. Announcement was made of the men who are to participate in the Fresh-Soph debate as representatives of that society. They are: R. B. Parker, E. T. Pullen, C. A. McIntosh, and N. C. McLeod, alternate.

Mrs. Kenneth Foreman spent the weekend in Charlotte as the guest of Mrs. O. J. Thies.

SHOWING AT DAVIDSON PARLOR OF WEST MONDAY, APRIL 14
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT
DEBONAIR, comfortable, tailored with the care that is approved by exclusive use. The comfort extends to the price.
DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50
Manufactured and sold exclusively by
NAT LUXENBERG & Bros.
New address N. W. Cor. 13th St. New York City
841 Broadway Stuyvesant 9898
Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.
Our style-memo book will be sent free on request.

The curse of the home mission work has been that young men have been using it for a stepping stone to foreign fields. He continued, “The soldier that I liked best to have under me when I was in the army was the one who was willing to obey. God wants men who will obey Him.” He showed that the reward of this work was not money but the joy of seeing men and women turn from a life of sin to a better life. He said, “There is no greater joy than to know by the grace of God that you have helped someone turn from a life of sin unto a life of useful Christian service.”

Lee McLean presided at the meeting. Mr. Williams introduced the speaker. The audience was led in prayer by Norman Patterson. C. V. Brown led the singing and Wallace Purdy played the piano.

THIRD ISSUE OF MAGAZINE COMES OFF OF PRESS

The Davidson College Magazine appeared for the third time during the present school year on March 12th. The issue of the magazine carried a well-chosen assortment of stories, essays, and poems. The list of contributors contained A. L. Williams, J. Galloway, W. C. Ogden, B. Y. Pitts, Paul M. Patterson, J. H. Caligan, W. S. Woods, H. L. Shelby, D. B. Wharton, and E. P. O'Connor. The stories by Simpson and Ogden, the sonnets of Galloway, and the essay by Sharpe deserve mention as the pick of the works appearing in the issue.

Besides the department of more “classical” works, there was the humorous department, Cap and Bells, of which A. M. Martin is editor. Here appeared the choice and spice of college wit, and its contributors are not mentioned because they all appear anonymously.

It was announced that the fourth issue of the magazine will go to press soon, and all who are expecting to hand articles in for it must do so at an early date.

A Class Distinction
The Hinge-Cap is the insignia of Williams Shaving Cream. You'll notice three things about Williams every time you shave. 1. Williams lather is heavier and holds the moisture in against the beard. Quicker and more thorough softening takes place. 2. Williams lather lubricates your skin—your razor actually seems to “glide” the hairs off. 3. Williams lather leaves the skin in marvelously fine condition. No matter how frequently you shave, your face stays cool, and smooth and comfortable. The Hinge-Cap is “on even when it’s off.” You can’t lose it, and the tube hangs up!