THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

FOUR VOLUMES ARE ADDED TO SHELVES OF LIBRARY

Several new and interesting books have recently been obtained for the library. Of these, the most interesting is probably "Japan in World Politics," by K. K. Kawakami, whose loyalty to the United States has led him to an investigation of Japan’s attitude to America. He explains the causes of Japan's friendship for America being impaired and shows how unreal they are. He then examines the reasons leading toward a restored friendship between the two nations and finds them advanced by every mutual agreement.

Albert Leon Guerard’s "French Civilization" gives a rapid and brilliant survey of French civilization from its origin to the close of the middle ages.

One of the most interesting pictures of the war is given in "Friends of France." It portrays the field service of the American Ambulance as described by its members. The field of service of the American Ambulance is the most adventurous part played by Americans in the great struggle, and these stories of actual experiences by its members are very inspiring.

Another notable addition is the "Letters and Journals of Thomas Wentworth Higginson," an incomparable picture of America’s literary, political, and social life through a period of more than half a century.

Norton: What kinda haircut yer want, sir?
Freshman: One with a hole in it like most of the profs are wearing these days.

VAUDEVILLE — Iklestown, Friday Nite.
MUSICAL COMEDY
PICTURES

Okey: While many a motorist is stalled to cuss unseen, and waste his anger on the midnight air, sending a check for five dollars, but forget to put it in the letter.

Abie says to tell you his papa has sold the horse that can run the mile in the short distance. If you pass all the work, papa wants you to come home to help with the fire sale we will have after our next fire.

Your papa, “Firpo” Allison, alias our own beloved Transfer Company

PHONE 298

Okey got in bad down at Charlotte the other day! He is not nearly so mean as he looks, but the Charlotte Police evidently do not know this. They arrested him for carrying concealed weapons just because he walked down the street with a life-size model of a tramp and it wouldn't work.

BE A NEWSPAPER CORRESPONDENT with the Heacock Plan and earn a good income while learning. We show you how; begin actual work at once; all or spare time; experience unnecessary; no canvassing; send for particulars. Newswriters Training Bureau, Buffalo, N.Y.

For Sale: One dozen decks of playing cards and twelve sets of poker chips. Count Sill.

Stout Montgomery registered a decisive victory for Davidson last week, winning the opening bout with ease. He was wrestling Temptation on the square.

Crown Prince Young caught a bad cold the other day. He couldn't figure where he caught it until he remembered that he got his feet wet two weeks ago.

Take your choice of the following CAPTIONS: No, Gertrude, that gurgling sound that’s giving you that piggely-wiggly feeling down your spinal column isn’t what you think it is. Shortie Howell’s not that kind, he’s only trying to sing to—tain George.

Prof: What is Ohm's law?

BRONCHITIS
Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes so vapors will be inhaled.

Vicks VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
221 West Trade St.

Boggs: Je t’adore!
Fair One: Shut it yourself, ain't your hand tied. —Virginia Reel

Sparrow is a funny bird, Wm. Crane’s another one.And if these are, think of this,— So must be A, Robinson. 

Red McPherson: I pass. 
Prof.: No you don't, you flunk. 

Funny thing ‘bout E. T. Bucks, He gets his “ducks.” smokes by — shooting 

A SEARCH FOR IDEALISM IN THE COLLEGE WORLD

Men live on dreams and rise only in proportion to their ideals. Last month marked the passing of the world’s greatest dreamer, Woodrow Wilson, because he endeavored to put his dreams into action, became one of the world’s immortals. “The men striving for Utopia are the men who vault over the heads of their fellows and lead mankind a step nearer the Master. “Striving to better, oft we mar what's well,” are never the ones to leave their names a shining light to posterity nor their “footprints on the sands of time.” Growth is a necessity, not a desired attribute. Consequently, build on your dreams. To set one’s heart upon a lofty purpose and then attain it is the highest accomplishment of the human soul. Men in college, students, cherish lofty ideals! If you have a secret desire to be a great athlete; dream of yourself as one. Picture yourself leading your team on to victory. Then, after having seen yourself as such, go out upon the athletic field and work with your vision ever in mind. When failures and disappointments come, the ideal that you have set will be of immeasurable value to you. If you wish to be a leader in college activities, first of all, see yourself as such. By a year of dreaming and constant work you will some day find yourself the president of your student body or of your Y. M. C. A. Set for yourself the high ideal of being of service to your fellow-man and pray for strength to render that service. To set a splendid goal and then fail to reach it is not a failure. Try for the highest regard a citizen of America ever did, and you, too, by building on your mind’s imagination, may, nay, will, lead your school and your college mates on to heights “hitherto undreamed of.”

H. L. SHAW, Jr.

University man’s approval of John Ward Men’s Shoes. A variety of lasts, patterns and leathers to meet every need will be shown by A. M. Shimmon at DAVIDSON MONDAY, FEB. 11 AND PARLOR WEST TUESDAY, FEB. 12 Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City

Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT

Life is ever-changing. Those who agree with the Duke of Albany when he says, “To have attempted much is always laudable, even when the enterprise is above the strength of him that undertaketh it.” Finally then, college men, let us not strangle our dreams. May we use them to our own advantage and to our school’s. By striving to reach an ideal, Wilson won the highest regard a citizen of America ever did, and you, too, by building on your mind’s imagination, may, nay, will, lead your school and your college mates on to heights “hitherto undreamed of.”

H. L. SHAW, Jr.

Little Boy: Yesterday when I was fighting dis guy’s brother comes up and...

CLEANING AND PRESSING Old P. O. Building

Victrolas Victor Records Steinway Pianos Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos Player Piano Rolls Furniture, Rugs Draperies and Interior Decorations We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms Society Halls, Etc. Parker-Gardner Company CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It is a pleasure to serve you.

PR ESCRI PTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS We carry a complete line of Candies Stationery and Toilet Articles “WHITE DRUG COMPANY