THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SESSION 1923-24
First Semester

| JAN. | FRESHMAN | SOPHOMORE | JUNIOR & SENIOR |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Mon. 21 | No classes | No classes | No classes |
| Tues. 22 P.M. | Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Applied Math. 1 and 2, Astronomy—Geology, Spanish 1, Spanish
2, Spanish 3 and 4, French 1, French 2, French 3, Psychology 3, Philosophy 1 or 2 |
| Wed. 23 A.M. | Latin 1 | Latin 2 | Law—Education 2 |
| Thurs. 24 P.M. | Math. 1 | Math. 2 | Math. 3 and 4, Polit. Sc. 2, Education 1,
Christian Evidences or Church History |
| Fri. 25 A.M. | Biology 1 | Biology 2 | Biology 3 and 4 |
| Fri. 25 P.M. | Physics 1 | Physics 2 | Physics 3 and 4 |
| Mon. 28 A.M. | Chemistry 1 | Chemistry 2 | Chemistry 3, 4, 5 and 6 |
| Tues. 29 P.M. | History 1 | History 2 or 3 | History 4 and 5, German 1, German
2, German 3 |
| Wed. 30 A.M. | Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Greek 3, 5 and 6 |
| Wed. 30 P.M. | Pub. Speaking | Polit. Sc. 1 | Accounting, Physics 1, Physics 2, 3 and 4,
Pub. Speaking |
| Thurs. 31 A.M. | English 1 | English 2 | English 3 and 4, English 5 or 6 |

Billy Sunday Among Those Invited to Make Addresses
He Has Accepted Invitation and Will Visit the Hill Soon

The list of speakers who have been asked to address the Y. M. C. A. during the spring term assures
a series of varied and interesting programs. The list includes ministers, newspaper men, Y. M. C. A. workers, and men
of national prominence in political lines. Billy Sunday has accepted the invitation and will be on the hill within the
next two weeks. No definite date has been set, but January 14th or 21st are the probable dates. On account
of the large number of meetings which he conducts on Sunday, Mr. Sunday will not be able to address the
“Y” at its regular vesper service.

Invitations have also been issued to Rev. Wade C. Smith, Doctor McGeachy, John McSween, Mr. Julian Miller, and Dr. Ben
Lacy, all of whom are outstanding men in their professions. Mr. Smith is pastor of The Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road, in Greensboro. He
will be remembered by those who have heard him as one who delivers a message in simple but forceful words.
Dr. McGeachy is well known to Davidson students, being the pastor of the Second Presbyterian Church of Charlotte. He was
among those initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at the recent ceremonies held on the hill. Mr. McSween is a young
man who is connected with the Y. M. C. A. work at Clemson. He brings a message from a young
man to young men and should have a large hearing. The upper-classmen will remember the forceful talk made by Mr.
Julian Miller before the Y. M. C. A. last session. Mr. Miller is news editor of the Charlotte News and
brings the word of God as a business man of the day. Rev. Ben Lacy, pastor of the Central Presbyterian
Church of Atlanta, is among the leaders in the Presbyterian Church in the U. S. The “Y” has not received
positive word from Mr. Lacy, but it is hoped that he will see fit to visit his Alma Mater and
address the students. Others of national magnitude have been asked to visit the hill, but word has not been received
either of their acceptance or decline of the invitation. Whether or not these additional speakers are secured, it is certain
that the vesper services conducted during the new term will be both interesting and instructive.

LOYALTY DISCUSSED AT SUNDAY BIBLE CLASSES

The Student Bible Classes in their meetings last Sunday morning took up the subject, in general, of Christian Loyalty. The
fact that loyalty is essential to achievement in any line was first discussed. Picking a worthy cause to be loyal
to, fitting one’s self for leadership in this cause, and living up to this cause, were brought out. Since the
good points of a cause are embodied in the lives of its adherents, a challenge was issued to all to
live Christ-like lives. Christ, as the leader of the Christian cause, demands the loyalty of all men.

R. O. T. C. News

The R. O. T. C. Battalion will have its scheduled fire drill Wednesday. The fire drills have added much protection
against the fire hazard, and in the future, with the aid of such an organization, it will be almost impossible
for a building to burn completely down. The shooting of the Freshman class as an average is slightly better than
that of last year. However, the men this year are shooting at a new target and this may account for
the higher scores. The first firing contest of the season is scheduled for the last week in this month. Each
rifle team is composed of 15 men. The team to shoot the match this month has not yet been picked.
Captain W. C. Ramsay, of the Junior class, whose home is at Ellisville, Miss., is the best shot in the
battalion. Other men who were on last year’s team are E. T. Buck, A. N. Sullivan, and N. Sullivan. In
the Freshman class, there are a number of men who are showing up well but as all the positions of
shooting have not been completed the team has not been picked. Colonel Falls will visit Davidson sometime this spring to
inspect the battalion. Colonel Falls is a North Carolinian and a graduate of Carolina. He is now in command of
the R. O. T. C. of the Fourth Corps area. In the drill competition recently held, C. E. Houston's squad
won first place. Houston is from Monroe. In the platoon competition, the platoon commanded by L. B. Huie, of Atlanta,
won first place. The competition between companies will be held next term.

FIRST YEAR MEN (Continued from page 1)

Georgia and North Carolina, many enthusiasts are betting on them as the champions of all these states, if they are
but given a chance to try their prowess.

| Freshmen (62) | Position | Greensboro (18) |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Hudgins (11) | Center | Oden (0) |
| Anderson (18) | Right Forward | Allen (0) |
| Hewlitt (22) | Left Forward | Scott (7) |
| Sapp (8) | Right Guard | Goodum (7) |
| Simpson (2) | Left Guard | Swift (2) |
| *Burroughs (2) | | |

Fouls—Davidson: Hudgins 1, Anderson 2, Hewlitt 2, Sapp 1, Simpson 2. Greensboro: Allen 1. Substitutions—Davidson: Hunter and Allen; Greensboro: Stone
and Burroughs.

From the first, the Fresh Scrub game against Cornelius was a hectic but exciting affair. The Highs jumped into an
early lead which the Freshmen overcame, only to lose it immediately. The lead see-sawed between the two. Opposing rooters alternately
cheered and groaned. Near the close, a veritable life and death struggle began. The referee was almost unable to cope
with the situation. One minute before the time was up the score stood 27-27. Then Lawrence Beale excited pandemonium among
the college boys by a perfect shot from the difficult left corner of the court. A second later the whistle
blew and the Wildcat rooters went wild. Two extra five-minute periods were necessitated to decide the contest. Both teams played
a fast, consistent game with few outstanding stars.

ALPHA PHI EPSILON (Continued from page 1)

(a) No regular debate, oration, or declamation as at present held.
(b) The meetings to be thrown open to general discussion of topics from the floor.Floor of the house.

4. That the following rules be adopted to govern the new form of procedure: (These are given informally and in
part only, here.)

(a) That just prior to the adjournment of any meeting the program committee present to the society in the form
of a regular motion at least one and preferably two questions of vital and present interest. For example, “Mr. President,
I move the adoption of a bill with the following provisions: (Then will follow a brief outline of the Mellon
tax reduction plan.)”

(b, c, etc., omitted.)

(g) Any member of the house shall have the privilege of making any motion, which does not violate the rules
of parliamentary procedure. And the privilege of debate on any debatable motion shall be extended to any member of the
house.

(i) In order that proper credit shall be given to members who desire to secure a diploma of the society,
the critic or reviewer of the society shall state, before adjournment, the names of those members whose speeches, in his
opinion, are worthy of a credit.

(o) The regular rules of parliamentary procedure shall govern all debates and motions, amendments, etc., with Roberts’ Rules of Order
(or some other) as guide.

A few of the subjects that will be suggested for discussion are:
1. The Mellon tax reduction plan.
2. The soldiers’ bonus.
3. The Revision of the Transportation Act, 1920.
4. A Federal Anti-Lynching bill.
5. America’s entrance into a world court as favored by Mr. Harding.

This plan to change the form of programs in our societies will be presented fully at the meetings this week,
by members of the societies. The adoption of this or any other suggestion is left entirely with the individual societies.

REPORTERS’ CLUB ELECTS TWO MEN TO MEMBERSHIP

At the last meeting of the Reporters’ Club, C. E. Monk and A. Y. Bowie were appointed to act as
an Absence Committee and to check up on all absences from the meetings. J. E. Moore and R. B. Parker
were elected to membership in the club, the initiation to take place at an early date.

L. A. ELLIOTT SELLS STORE AND TURNS TO FARMING

Nickels and dimes will be saved, quarters and halves will not be spent, and the members of the student body
will be greatly benefited financially now since “Jew” Elliot has closed out his little shop and retired to the private
life of a Southern planter. The appetizing savor of his peanuts, and that inviting odor of his cheese sandwiches, and
his wide variety of Californias in the window, will not tempt the fellows to come in.

“Jew” has been in business here for more than six years, and while here has been a close friend of
many students, especially when he was open just after they had returned from somewhere tired and hungry. He is reported
to have said that he had made his millions and was now going to retire and spend his last years
as a close observer of nature. While here he kept his shop open during the school year, but during the
summers he could only be found down by some quiet stream waiting for something to come along and nibble at
his bait. Upon the return to his haven at nightfall a great string of fish was the usual result of
his labors.

Mr. Elliot's friends in Davidson are numbered by his acquaintances. He has purchased a farm near Charlotte, where he intends
to settle down and bend all his efforts toward raising hogs and hominy.

HOBOS’ NAMES MISSED BY PSYCHOLOGICAL ERROR

Through a typographical and psychological error of the worst kind, the names of three of Davidson's illustrious sons were omitted
from the roster of the hobo column. Burns Gibbs and big Little Deck, real genuine Georgia peaches, left Davidson a
few hours after suspension of classes and laid in there and fought things in general until they wound up at
Cornelia, Ga. 48 hours later. On their backs was this strange device which they bore through the snow and ice:
“From Davidson, N.C. to Cornelia, Ga. How about a ride?” They both got rides aplenty and had a pleasant time
on the trip. Burns had too good a time at home and could not spare the extra hours for the
hike, so he rode the “evars” back to Davidson. Deck did the same it is reported.

Another man from these parts, Little Hollingsworth, felt the call of the open road and started to Atlanta by foot.
He had, it seems, the best luck of all, getting a ride at Belmont, N.C. which took him to Lower
Atlanta. His only trouble came with the advent of Georgia roads and numerous stick-ups and blowouts that he had to
help with.

The Thelemite Club met Friday evening with Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Meagle. Prof. Porter lectured on “Japanese Earthquake.” Captain
G. I. Weems, a newly elected member, was present for the first time.

AFRICAN MISSIONS SUBJECT OF VOLUNTEER DISCUSSION

Missionary Makes Address and Presents Cause of Africa

The Volunteer Band held its Sunday night service after the “Y” meeting. The speaker for the evening was Rev. Mr.
Smith. Mr. Smith is a missionary from Africa, who is in the United States on a furlough. The program was
a variety in the form of questions and answers. Mr. Smith did not give a talk, but answered questions as
they were asked by members of the band. Some of the questions and answers were:

“Are there any schools in Africa?”
Answer: “There are 582 out-stations with a small school at each; they are taught up to the third grade.”

“What language is taught?”
“The French.”

“Is there any opposition to missionary work?”
“The only opposition comes from the Catholics and native witch doctors, and sometimes the Belgian Government, as influenced by the
Catholics.”

“Is the native dialect hard to learn?”
“Not very hard. New men on the field are supposed to preach within a year.”

“Are there enough hospitals?”
“There are only a few good ones and a great demand for more. The natives are unhealthy, and doctors, nurses,
and hospitals are needed.”

“What are the games like?”
“There are very few games played, and they are not very active.”

JUNIOR MAKES RECORD

J. A. Thompson, an inmate of the infirmary during the past week, and a member in good standing of the
Junior Class, has the unique distinction of being the only man who ever studied while taking the rest cure. In
doing this he broke a precedent which has been standing since the memory of man runneth not to the contrary.
Incidentally, Mr. Thompson had his tonsils removed.

The only other persons who resided for any length of time in the aforesaid domicile were H. B. Matthews and
T. L. Hodgkin, both for the same purpose as Thompson. Although there were several others, their stay was so brief
that only by consulting the records of the absence committee can they be obtained. As can be seen from the
record set down, the Senior Class also set a record by its members being conspicuous by their absence.

THE VIKINGS, JUNIOR CLUB

There has been for some time a club, consisting of six members of the Junior class, known as the Vikings.
This club is for friendship only—and includes only members of the class of ’25. The members are: A. M. Martin,
A. N. Moffett, N. G. Patterson, H. B. Price, W. C. Ramsey, and D. B. Wharton.

“What a difference just a few cents make!”
