L. EFIRD’ THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

Twenty-Three Prepares For First Reunion

TO THE MEN OF TWENTY-THREE

Dear classmates:

Almost a year has ticked off since we stood together as a class around the old flag pole and sang
“College Ties” while the colors of '23 were being lowered on us for the last time as students of Davidson.
This event, you remember, was followed by a mad scramble to see who could get out of that cap and
gown quickest and get into that business suit first and say, with the cat that had just taken his first
Scotch, “Now bring on the world, I can lick it.” Do you still have that same pep? I hope so.

None of us have as yet become president of the United States inasmuch as the nomination isn’t until June; but
I am proud of one thing and that is that none of our names have been smooched by G. B.
SORRELLS President of Class of '23 “That tower of strength which stands four square to all the winds that blow.”
Be sure to read Bascomb’s letter to the class of ’23. My dime is on you, You will be elected.

Now that we have clipped off our first world’s year, how many yards have we advanced toward that coveted goal
“Success?” Perhaps some of us have been thrown for a loss. Remember, the ball is still in our possession. Let's
keep bucking that old line. There is no failure except from quitting. There is no defeat except from within our
own inherent weakness. Smash that old defense and do not forget that when everything else has failed a field goal
has often changed a seemingly miserable defeat into a glorious victory.

We were all deeply grieved when Pinkey Simmons was taken from our number. He is the first link to be
taken from the chain of '23. This means that it is our duty and privilege to master the outstanding successes,
which would have been Pinkey's had his life been spared. Do not stay away from D. C. too long at
a time. Go back as often as you can and refill your tank with “Davidson Spirit,” which is only supplied
through “The Campus Atmosphere Filling Station.” Unfortunately, it cannot be duplicated elsewhere. Make it a point to keep in close
touch with your Alma Mater and you will find it easier to “hit that old apple” in the game of
life.

Everybody try to be at Davidson for Commencement this year.

In conclusion, let’s give a “Long Davidson, and fight,” and follow this with a “Sky Rocket” for ’23. Make ‘er
go fellows! Every best wish to all of you,

In the Bonds of ’23,
G. BASCOMB SORRELLS.

P.S.: Be sure to keep in touch with Gamble, and let him know what you are doing so he may
keep the rest of us posted.

Where They Are

J. M. Adams—Johnnie toured the West during the summer, and in September settled down to teaching at Blue Ridge School,
Hendersonville. He is making a success of it.

R. C. Aiken—"Windy” is enjoying a winter of leisure at his home in Laurens, S.C. He has made several visits
to the Hill during the year.

P. Alexander—"Sporty” is holding down a position with the Simpsonville Cotton Mills, Simpsonville, S.C.

H. A. Bailey—"Snag” is coaching at Pollocksville, N.C.

J. W. Baldwin—Joe spent the summer at Montreat extracting shackles from the visitors at the gate. He is at present
teaching at Pembroke, N.C.

Julius M. Barr—At present “hanging around” Greenville, S.C. Rumor has it that Julius will return next session to capture the
sheepskin.

J. D. Bernhardt—"Doug” is reading law this winter at home, Lenoir, N.C., preparatory to entering Harvard Law School next fall.

D. W. Bethea—"Dave” is making a fine showing as professor of Mathematics and is teaching at Chamberlain-Hunt Military Academy.emy, Port
Gibson, Miss. | P. H. Biddle—"P. H." is now at Union Seminary. He started off at Columbia, but later followed
his roommate to Union. J. P. Booth—"Piccolo" is principal of the East Bend High School, East Bend, N. C. He
and Guy Weeks are making good as teachers. J. M. Bostick—"Twick" is with the Equitable Life Assurance Co., Cleveland, Ohio.
S. H. Bradley—"Skinny" has been spending the year in China with his parents. He writes that he expects to return
to America in June, and will enter the Seminary in the fall. R. P. Brown—Fell victim to Cupid's bow and
was married in the early fall. He is now teaching at Blue Ridge Academy, The Hollow, Va. W. P. Brown—Willie
is assistant professor of English at Georgia Tech. He reports that he is enjoying the work fine. W. S. Buchanan—"Buck"
is teaching Math at the Shelby High School, Shelby, N. C. He is also directing the Rotary Club Band. P.
Burney—"Parson" is teaching at Berry School, Mt. Berry, Ga. M. P. Calhoun—Malcolm is principal of the school at Chinquapin, N.
C. W. J. Cooper—"Bill" started the year off at Walton School of Commerce and Finance in Philadelphia, but was forced
to return home due to the illness of his father. He is now at Fowler, S.C. Keith Cornelius—Keith is assisting
his father on a large farm near Mooresville, N. C. C. R. Crawford—"Pat" is teaching and coaching at Gastonia High
School, Gastonia, N. C. It is understood that Pat will hold the initial sack for Charlotte during the summer. N.
R. Currie—Neil is taking postgraduate work at Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. R. F. Davidson—"Bob" is teaching English at McCallie
School, Chattanooga, Tenn. L. H. Davis—"Bevo" has put one over on all the rest of his classmates. He copped a
place on the faculty immediately after graduation, and has done some fine work this year. S. M. Davis—Sam is teaching
and coaching at Blue Ridge School, Hendersonville, N. C. Johnnie Adams says Sam is helping him, but Sam turns the
statement around. Anyhow, they're both doing good work. J. C. Deaver—"Monk" is juggling figures in one of the banks at
Perry, Fla. L. W. Dick—Leonard is teaching this year at the Richard J. Reynolds, Winston-Salem, N. C. He hasn't learned
to chew or smoke yet! W. T. Elliott—"Tally" is studying law at the University of S. C., Columbia, S. C.
G. D. Fleming—"Jew" is the only man who seems to have turned hermit. No reports from him whatever. M. B.
Foil—Martin is earning the textile industry first-hand at the Cannon Mills, Kannapolis, N. C. T. L. Fraser—Layton is at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. W. A. Gamble, Jr.—"Balaam" is attending Columbia Theological Seminary, Columbia, S.C. Address, 1600 Blanding St. K.
T. Gentry, Jr.—Talmage is with the Insurance Rating Bureau, Raleigh, N. C. He was a visitor on the Hill this
past weekend. A. V. Gibson—"Gib" is at Union Seminary. He was a recent visitor on the Gaskee campus. R. A.
Gordon—"Bob" is teaching French, Math, English, Physics, and a few other subjects at Weyer's Cave, Va. Bob says it's a
great life if you don't weaken. Address, Fort Defiance, Va. J. H. Grey—John is teaching at Bedford, Va. W. G.
Guille—"Duke" is assistant sales manager, Western District, Quaker Oat Co., Chicago, Ill. Address 5338 Blackstone Ave., Chicago. P. B. Guthery—Paul
is taking a business course at University of Pa., Philadelphia. Address 3614 Chestnut St. J. E. Haney—"Eli" is in business
with his father at Spindale, N. C. S. Johnston—Frank is principal of the Clarkton High School, Clarkton, N. C. W.
P. Kimzey—"Pat" is teaching at the (Continued on page 8) W. A. GAMBLE, Jr. Alumni Secretary "Balaam" Co-operate with by
answering his letters. In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—"What am I going to
do after graduation?" This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. His address is 830 Gregg St.,
Columbia, S.C. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity
for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars. SOUTHERN
LIFE & TRUST CO. GREENSBORO, N. C. A. W. McALISTER, Pres. H. B. GUNTER, Ag'cy Mgr. VICTROLAS -- New Records
Weekly -- VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES LUDWIG DRUMS PLAYER PIANO ROLLS SHEET
MUSIC Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. CHARLOTTE Mr. Merchant: Have You a Policy That Protects You
Against BAD CHECKS? We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange in good faith
for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place
of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt
at INSURANCE DEPARTMENT Independence Trust Co. Phone 3490
