THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924 - WIN ON WEARN FIELD

FOLLOW TEAM TO CHARLOTTE

Central Cafeteria "On the Square"
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

Varsity Meets Clemson Tigers on Wearn Field

COACH YOUNGER POINTS DAVIDSON SQUAD TO ONLY CHARLOTTE GAME

Suspense reigns on the Davidson campus, and, all opinions having been expressed, it cannot be determined who will come out
winner in the annual tilt with Clemson, which will be played Saturday afternoon in Charlotte on Wearn Field. Both teams
are carrying good records, Davidson having won five, lost one, and tied one, while Clemson has won two and lost
three. Davidson showed up well against weight when they played N.C. State to a 10-10 tie in Pinehurst last week,
upsetting the majority of dope. They opened up a passing attack in the last few minutes of the game and
tied the score.

The Kick-Off
By Don Wharton

As Home-Coming Day on November 15th approaches with the first home game with Carolina in 25 years to be the
feature, the old grads and alumni will return to gather about in groups before the fires and in the stands
and talk of the great Wildcat plays and famous Davidson games that have passed into the annals of sport history.
But great as they may have been and spectacular as they certainly seemed, none will exceed and few will equal
the spirited comeback and the wonderful attack that the fighting team of Wildcats sprang Saturday afternoon before a holiday crowd
of Pinehurst people.

Yearlings Beat Trinity In First Quarter Spurt

COACH RAWSON’S SQUAD SHOWS POWER

In Defeating Methodist Team 16-7 in Last Home Game

The Davidson Yearlings fought their way to a 16-7 victory over the Trinity Freshmen on Richardson Field, October 31st. The
Wildkittens showed good form and fought hard in the first quarter but the work of both teams in the following
three quarters was erratic and there was no consistent gaining. The first touchdown for the Yearlings came early in the
first quarter, when after an exchange of punts Grey ran around end for 20 yards and Overton made a run
netting 25 yards; Nesbit bucked the ball over the goal line. Grey kicked the goal.

The second counter came as a result of a blocked punt and a penalty which placed the ball on the
Red Devil’s three-yard line. The Wildkittens then made a touchdown through the line. Grey failed to kick the extra point.
Trinity retaliated and scored, Grey recovering in a spectacular way, scooping up the ball as he clipped a man. On
the next play, however, Davidson fumbled and Trinity recovered. The Trinity Yearlings in the beginning of the second quarter attempted
a long pass and Davidson was penalized. This placed the ball within three yards of the goal line, where a
field goal was scored.

Davidson won from Elon in the opening game of the season 14-0 and Clemson recently beat them 60-0. The Wildcats
came out of the State game in good shape, none of them being injured, and they are going through strenuous
workouts every day and should be in good condition for the game Saturday. They have developed a fight that helps
out some in their lack of weight. The teams they have played this season average around 15 pounds more than
the Wildcats, but they have been seen fighting in every play that has been run and using their heads, thereby
getting creditable results.

The Clemson team will average approximately 14 pounds more to the man than the Davidsonians, and have a drive that
is hard to stop. They have some dangerous men in the backfield, Robinson and Harmon, and Holohan shows up well
at right tackle. The Tigers have an advantage in previous scores. In the games played between these institutions Clemson has
won seven, while Davidson has won four and three of them ended in a tie. The South Carolina Aggies won
last year by a 12-0 score. With the Tigers engaging Wildcats on hostile terms there is sure to be fur
flying around.

BRUISES
Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with light
cloth. Repeat every few hours.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Champion Electric
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoe Fixery
Shoes Repaired While You Wait

College Jewelry
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Watches and Clocks
Davidson, N. C.
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens

The Old Stand
CIGARS
SANDWICHES
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
CIGARETTES
CANDIES

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. —famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We
have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered
its equal.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
We are selling SpaldingWearn Field when they meet, and one of the best games of the season in this section
of the state is expected. The probable line-up for the two teams follows:

Davidson. Position. Clemson.
Davis (C) Left end Hinklea
Baker Left tackle Jackson
Wiat Center Laird
Holohan or Hane Right tackle Bolatinon
Roy Right end Srbemenit
Quarterback Ike
Left half Mol
Right half Blath
Fullback Yom

Zachery, one of Washington's star pitchers, was a student at Guilford for three years, 1915-18, being the star pitcher on
Guilford’s championship team in 1917. He left school in 1918 to enlist.—The Guilfordian.

Reach: Wright & Ditson Goldsmith Goods | Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street

They today speak of the Red and Black team. Out of the years of defeat and gloom, they have brought
the college into one of success. They still have a hard row to hoe, as the Clemson, Carolina, and Trinity
games come in quick succession. Behind them must stand the undivided support and encouragement of every man.

Saturday, Davidson plays Clemson for the first time in Charlotte since back in 1917, when Davidson won on Wearn Field
21-9. Last year, the Tigers won from Davidson 12-0 by two blocked punts. They have a good team down there
this season, defeating Elon 60-0 and holding Auburn to one touchdown and two field goals. Many who saw the Tiger-Gamecock
fray said that the Clemson team outplayed the University though it lost three to nothing. The team must be better
than North Carolina since the Tar-Heels were never able to get near the South Carolina goal Saturday, getting their score
on a blocked punt.

Except for the one time when tricked at Pinehurst, the Davidson team has not been penalized in the last two
games. As a State player in his dressing room examined a bruised shoulder, he said: “Look where those Wildcats scratched
me.” Charlie says that when the news was wired to Davidson that Laird had kicked a field goal, he threw
a rooster into the Wildcat cage and said: “Eat ’em up, Wildcats!” He looked “Re-member the last field goal we
made against State, Zander?” That was in 1921, when Davidson tied the Engineers in Charlotte 3-3 as Gig and Zander
ran side by side in the Wildcat backfield. Sam Story took the Davidson supporters in hand and led some good
cheering.

ATTENDANCE GROWS AT MORNING PRAYER GROUPS

The morning prayer groups in the different dormitories are still growing, about one hundred men attending them regularly each morning.
The original plan has been enlarged on. In addition to the small groups, there will be one or two large
groups in each dormitory. Members of the Y Cabinet in each dormitory will assist in organizing these groups and in
conducting them. The groups meet from 7:45 to 8:00 o'clock each morning.

Yards of the goal line and the Red Devils bucked it over on the fourth down and kicked goal. In
the last minutes of the first half, Grey booted the ball for a perfect goal from the 38-yard line while
Wilson held the ball. The second half was all mediocre football in which both teams would break loose with good
gains but neither side did any consistent gaining and few first downs were made. Both teams attempted a great many
passes, completing only a few. Trinity completed a long pass for 30 yards across the goal line, but this was
called back because one of the Trinity men was offside.

Buster Swift, Trinity captain and quarterback, showed up well, bearing the brunt of the offensive and defensive work. Stevens and
Kelly showed up well on their line also. For the Wildkittens, Grey, captain and half-back, did some pretty punting and
running, also showing up well in his defensive work. Wilson, quarterback, played a steady, cool game and ran his team
well. Ritchie, at tackle, played a fine game, often getting the Red Devils behind the line of scrimmage; he also
blocked one of their punts. Arrowood played a fine game at end.

Trinity. Position. Davidson.
Wichives Left end McGolgan
Ritchie Left tackle Long
Center Wilson
Right guard Stevens
Gibson Right tackle Arrowood
Right end Wilson
Quarterback Grey
Left half Bellis
Right half Note
Fullback Overton

(Continued on page 6)

W. G. SHIELDS Appreciative Service

Keep Your Feet DRY! E. A. FRY The Mender of Shoes

PRINTING For High Class and no ground to speak of was gained around C. M. S. McIlwaine Presbyterian Standard Pub.
Co. of every description

“Jam-Up” SERVICE see 14 Ga. Agent for Henderson’s Auto Electric Company

“U-DRIVE’MS” When You Need Candy Wholesale See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.
