THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

Outstanding Productions Booked During Spring

McCain Announces Varied Program of Pictures for Students

The pictures that the Y. M. C. A. has booked for showing this spring exhibit a wide range of theme
and treatment. Among them are some of the best pictures obtainable at any price and the general tone of the
pictures this spring will be as good as that in the best theatres in the country. The outstanding productions that
will have a place on the spring schedule are:

First, “Scaramouche,” the much-talked-of Metro feature that was directed by Rex Ingram. Ingram also directed “The Four Horsemen of the
Apocalypse,” the sensation of several years ago, but this picture is said to eclipse even this stupendous production in power
of theme and brilliance of presentation. “Scaramouche” stars the beautiful Alice Terry and the new leading man, Ramon Navarro. It
was only through a streak of luck that the Y. M. C. A. was able to secure this picture at
this time.

Another outstanding feature of the spring's entertainment is “Enemies of Women,” by Blasco Ibanez, adapted to the screen by Goldwyn-Cosmopolitan.
The principal actors are Alma Reubens and Lionel Barrymore, and the picture was filmed in Paris. It is heralded as
a stellar production in every sense of the word.

Mary Roberts Rinehart, probably the most popular woman writer in the world, is the author of “Long Live the King.”
This novel was one of the best sellers of the year and as a picture it makes by far the
most powerful vehicle that the diminutive star, Jackie Coogan, has ever had.

There have been many requests for pictures made by Viola Dana. This demand will be met this spring by the
exhibition of several of her pictures. The first, “Rouged Lips,” will be shown here this week. Other pictures scheduled include
“The Steadfast Heart,” Buster Keaton’s latest, “Hospitality,” and Harold Lloyd in “Why Worry?” At every time, when the length of
the feature will permit, there will be comedies and other interesting features.

Efforts are being made to provide adequate seating arrangements for the shows this spring, and the Y. M. C. A.
hopes to have some good seats soon.

Viola Dana Saturday In “Rouged Lips”

Miss Dana Stars in Screen Adaptation of Rita Weiman’s “Upstage”

Saturday night Viola Dana will be seen in her newest Metro picture, “Rouged Lips,” a story of the stage and
stage people from Rita Weiman’s story, “Upstage.” It is a picture that gives Miss Dana an excellent opportunity to display
her vivacious charm and extraordinary talent. Miss Weiman, the author, is the most delightful of all chroniclers of life behind
the footlights and her stories have won millions of readers.

Supporting Miss Dana is a superlative cast of players. At the head is Tom Moore, famous in his own right
and thrice famous as a brother of two other noted Moores, Owen and Matt. In the cast also are Nola
Luxford, Sydney de Grey, Arline Pretty, Francis Powers, Georgie Woodthorpe, and Burwell Hamrick.

“Rouged Lips” is the story of a little girl who is a member of a musical comedy chorus. She meets
her Prince Charming who recognizes her innate sweetness and innocence but who is led astray by false rumors and fails
to realize the secret wishes of every woman’s heart. In the end Norah wins her Prince Charming, but how she
succeeds in doing it against terrific obstacles forms as interesting a story as the local theatres have ever presented. It
was directed by Harold Shaw from the scenario by Thomas J. Hopkins and photographed by John Arnold.

One of the most interesting features of “Rouged Lips” is a devil’s chorus of “thirty under twenty.” This expression has
become famous in theatrical circles and signifies a collection of beautiful girls, perhaps thirty in number and all under twenty
years of age. In “Rouged Lips” several of the big scenes are laid inside of a theatre with the performance
in full progress before an audience. This chorus was picked out of hundreds of California beauties. Admission 15c and 25c.
“Bring a chair.”

Dr. and Mrs. Harding spent a few days last week with their daughters Mrs. McGeachy and Mrs. Brenizer, of Charlotte.

FATHER OF DAVIDSON MAN DIES OF HEART TROUBLE

The student body of Davidson was very much grieved to hear of the death of Mr. K. M. McAlpine, of
Blackspear, Ga. Mr. McAlpine was the father of K. S. McAlpine, a member of the Junior class. Mr. McAlpine’s death
occurred December 21st, at 6:00 p.m. His death was due to heart trouble. He was buried on the afternoon of
December 23rd. Mr. McAlpine was cashier of the Blackspear Banking Company, and had rendered valuable service in this institution for
many years. The whole student body sympathizes with K. S. McAlpine, and are hoping to see him return to Davidson
in a few days.

Sigma Upsilon Chapter Due Credit for Work

Since Organization as Blue Pencil Club Literary Work Here Has Been Bettered

The January issue of the “News Letter,” publication of Sigma Upsilon National Literary Fraternity, has a story of the history
of the Blue Pencil chapter, located at Davidson. The following is a summary of the article:

On January 18, 1915, seven men met and formed the Blue Pencil Club to promote literary work. At this meeting
a committee was appointed for seeking affiliation with Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity. The charter was granted the following April and
the Blue Pencil chapter was installed May 10, 1915.

Ever since the organization was formed it has been very active. In 1915, upon the invitation of Odd Number chapter,
of the University of North Carolina, Blue Pencil chapter entered a short story written by G. W. Gignilliat, in the
Sigma Upsilon contest. Mr. Gignilliat won the Sigma Upsilon prize for 1915.

In the beginning meetings were held monthly, but since 1917 they have been held fortnightly. The programs have consisted partly
of critical work and partly of original work. At every meeting several papers are read and general discussion of current
topics takes place.

In addition to its regular work in the meetings, Blue Pencil has done much to promote literary work throughout the
student body. Every effort is made to keep in touch with the work of the “Davidsonian,” the “Magazine,” and “Quips
and Cranks.” Membership is determined largely by contributions to the publications and by interest in the work of the literary
societies and Dramatic club. Besides these activities the chapter has taken part in bringing lecturers on literary topics to the
college. Included in these are Vachel Lindsay, Dr. Metcalf, and Professor Lomax. They have also co-operated with the librarian in
collecting books written by Davidson men.

For the past two years Blue Pencil has worked very closely with the Dramatic club. Last year a study of
the one-act play was made and much of the original work was in dramatic form. Several plays, written by its
members, have been presented lately.

E. J. Erwin, Professor of English here, is national president of Sigma Upsilon. The Blue Pencil roll includes the following
active and associate members:

Faculty—E. J. Erwin, F. K. Fleagle, Frazer Hood, J. M. McConnell, M. E. Sentelle, E. F. Shewmake.

Students and Associate Members—J. S. Bailey, J. H. Davis, W. Fewell, W.F. Galloway, W. M. Isa R. | R. Jones,
J. R. Walker, D. B. Walthall, H. | M. White, J. P. Williams.

LIBRARY NEWS

Two new books have recently been added to the Davidson College library, both of which were written by alumni. One
of these is by Dr. Edward Mack, '86, professor in the department of Hebrew and Old Testament Interpretation at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. This work is entitled The Preacher’s Old Testament. The book tells in a very interesting way
the historical and literary value of the Bible, its moral influence upon the world, and how it prepared the Jewish
nation for the coming of the Christ.

The other is by Dr. W. S. Plumber Bryant, ’75. Its title is Prayer and the Healing of Disease. A
very striking contrast is made, in this book, between the old and the new classes of miracles. Dr. Bryant shows
how fakirs have shaken the faith of many people in this age.

Fire Hazard Eliminated By Building Fire Escapes
Safety of Students Enhanced by New Additions to Shearer Hall

Steps are being taken to reduce to the least possible degree the hazard of life caused by fires at Davidson
College. Closely on the heels of the installation of night watchmen have followed improvements on Shearer Hall that will be
completed within the next few days. Upon the completion of these improvements, this old building, a gift from our late
president, J. B. Shearer, to Davidson College, will be rendered far less dangerous in case of fire.

These improvements, made under the supervision of D. B. Van Sant, engineer of buildings and grounds, consist of modern fire
escapes of a width of three feet that extend from the second floor to the ground on the north and
south sides of the building. At present, the fire escapes are completed except the protecting rail that will be put
in place within the next few days. Mr. Van Sant says that plans are being completed to convert the windows
at the landings of the fire escapes into doors that will comply with the state laws. This will provide two
other three-foot exits from the auditorium.

It is possible that these two exits will be used for insurance inspection and chapel exercises in the morning. The
students will find much time saved and convenience attained by this arrangement as entrances and exits. The days in which
Old Shearer will be considered nothing more than a fire trap seem to be dying a slow death. With the
addition of the two fire escapes, there will be four large exits from the auditorium of the building. This arrangement
will supply sufficient room to allow the entire student body to pass out of the building in a comparatively short
time, and, coupled with the fact that escape from the ground floor is easy, will render ungrounded any fear of
hazard of life from fires in Shearer Hall in the future.

DAVIDSON MEN ENJOY BANQUET AT CONFERENCE

Fifteen of the sons of Davidson who were at the Indianapolis convention got together for a luncheon at the magnificent
Lincoln Hotel in that city. Edgar A. Woods, ’19, was elected toastmaster, and reminiscences were the order of the day.
After the first course, Woods suggested that each rise and tell where he was and what he was doing for
his year’s work. The following men were present:

George A. McLean, Jr., of Mississippi, Winona, Miss. ex-'25, University
T. L. Frazer, '23, Union Seminary, Richmond.
C. E. Cunningham, ‘22, Emory University Medical School,
W. A. Gamble, '23, Columbia Seminary.
N. V. Jones, ‘23, Instructor in English Department, Ga. Tech.
Edgar A. Woods, Richmond.
D. P. McGeachy, Richmond.
A. M. McBryde, '24, Davidson.
Edgar Hudgins, '22, Louisville Seminary,
Groves, ‘22, Union Seminary.
Price, '25, Davidson,
Ted Jones, '24, Davidson,
Jim Sprunt, Davidson, and Paul Meng, '26, Davidson, were at the convention, but were unable to attend the banquet.

After the introductions were over, Jones described for the benefit of the alumni the recent changes which had taken place
at Davidson, the improvements in grounds and building equipment, and the development of the Court of Control and the Honor
Store. It proved that seven Pandemics, five Lumeneans, two Philanthropies, and one Metrophilian were present at the luncheon.

League of Nations Essay Contest Open to Students
Prizes of $100, $75, and $50 Each for the Three Best Essays on “Why the United States Should Join the
League of Nations”

The growing interest among undergraduates of American universities and colleges in the League of Nations and the World Court has
prompted the College Division of the League of Nations Non-Partisan Association to conduct an essay contest, with prizes of $100,
$75, and $50 each to students who desire to compete for them.

The contest is announced by Corliss Lamont, who, as chairman of the Committee of University and College Students of the
League of Nations Non-Partisan Association, is in charge of the organization of branches of the association in universities and colleges.
Mr. Lamont reports that over 80 universities and colleges have already been organized.

The subject of the essay is to be: “Why the United States Should Join the League of Nations.” The total
number of words submitted by the contestant must not exceed three thousand. Only one essay may be submitted by any
one contestant. Manuscripts must be typewritten and only on one side of the page, and must not be rolled. No
manuscript will be returned. No postage for the return of manuscripts should therefore be included by the sender. All manuscripts
must be received at the office of the League of Nations Non-Partisan Association, 15 West 37th Street, New York City,
by 12 o'clock noon, March 1, 1924.

The submission of any manuscript, whether or not it receives an award, shall give to the association full rights to
publish any or all of it in such manner and at such times as it may choose.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN 1706-1790
Printer, journalist, diplomat, inventor, statesman, philosopher, wit. One of the authors of the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution, author
of Poor Richard's Almanack; and one of the most eminent natural philosophers of his time.

Electrical machines bearing the mark of the General Electric Company, in use throughout the world, are raising standards of living
by doing the work of millions of men.

But nobody had thought to do it

By bringing electricity down from the clouds over a kite string, it was a simple thing to prove that lightning
was nothing more than a tremendous electrical flash. For centuries before Franklin flew his kite in 1751, philosophers had been
speculating about the nature of lightning. With electrified globes and charged bottles, others had evolved the theory that the puny
sparks of the laboratory and the stupendous phenomenon of the heavens were related; but Franklin substituted fact for theory by
scientific experiment.

Roaring electrical discharges, man-made lightning as deadly as that from the clouds, are now produced by scientists in the Research
Laboratories of the General Electric Company. They are part of experiments which are making it possible to use the power
of mountain torrents farther and farther from the great industrial centers.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
