THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

VICTORY CAFE
A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service
West Trade and Poplar Streets
Charlotte
We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE” CHARLOTTE

Town News
Miss Julia Potts, sister of Mrs. W. H. Wooten, and five teachers from the School for Deaf and Dumb at
Morganton, spent last week-end with Mrs. Wooten.

The Young Matron's Club was entertained by Mrs. Dusenberry on last Friday afternoon. An enjoyable program was rendered, after which,
refreshments were served.

Dr. W. L. Lingle spent last Thursday and Friday with his brother, Dr. T. W. Lingle.

Prof. C. K. Brown gave a bachelor dinner last Friday night at his home in Cleveland. A number of Davidson
men were guests.

On last Wednesday evening Mrs. J. M. Douglas entertained at a dinner party Mrs. Reed, Mrs. Sample, and Mrs. Olia
White.

Rev. T. W. Currie, who is at the head of Young People’s Work in the Synod of Virginia, was the
guest for several days of his mother, Mrs. V. Currie, and brother, Prof. A. Currie.

Dr. McConnell and Dr. Douglas, sons of Dr. Clarke, witnessed the three races in Charlotte last Saturday. Dr. Clarke is
head chemist of one of the big plants operated by the Standard Oil Co.

As spend-the-day guests, Mrs. Erwin had her brother and sister, Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Bedinger, of Black Mountain.

Mrs. Erwin honored Mrs. Craigen, sister of Mrs. Lingle, at a tea last Monday. The ladies present were Mrs. Douglas,
Mrs. Reed, Mrs. Van Sant, Mrs. Dougherty, Mrs. Olin White, Mrs. Lingle, and Mrs. Craigen.

Prof. Erwin entertained The Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon last Monday night.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young were in Charlotte Saturday for the races.

Messrs. Arbuckle, Mills, and Frontis, of Mooresville, Brady, of Statesville, and Erwin were in Morganton recently in the interests of
the Men's Club.

On Tuesday night the Thelemite Club members enjoyed a ‘possum-supper and weiner-roast at the river. Enjoyable games were an important
part of the program. The twenty-five present were subjected to a fake intelligence test to the merriment of all.

Collegians 2nd DRAGOON GUARDS

Ready! The Correct Clothes For Our Men’s Section Invites Your Approval of Fashion Park’s NEWEST!

Spirit of co-operation and responsibility in students a fine opportunity ambitious students to find a use

STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS
(Continued from page 1)
officers; the remaining 10 serving as councilmen from the various classes: Each class is allowed a certain representation on the
Council as follows: Five from the Senior class, three from the Junior class, two from the Sophomore class, and one
from the Freshman class. The latter representative does not sit with the Council until after the Freshman class elects officers
at the beginning of the second term. The decision of the Council is final, with the exception of an appeal
to the student body, which is to be made only under strict regulations as prescribed in the constitution. The importance
of this institution is readily apparent, when it is realized that as a court of judgment, the Council is in
reality the protector of the college reputation and traditions.

As a branch of the Council, and appointed by it, the Court of Control hears, investigates, and deals with the
charges of the upper classmen against Freshmen for improper conduct, such as jibing, violating Freshman regulations, or breaking college traditions.
The charges which come under the consideration of the Court of Control concern Freshmen alone, and are never of such
a serious nature that they may be construed as a violation of the Honor System. In the absolute absence of
hazing, the work of this body is vital to the proper government of the student body, and this organization, like
the others, deserves the whole-hearted support of the entire student body.

All the athletic activities of Davidson College are under the general supervision of the Athletic Association, of which every student
is a member. Regular officers of the asso-

REV. W. T. THOMPSON
(Continued from page 7)
its simplicity and sincerity, has our own then launched directly into his talk.

Monday Night
The first revival service Monday night greatly impressed those who attended with while strengthening the general determination not to miss
a meeting. Few speakers have won the hearts of their hearers in so short a time as “Tollic.” The quartet
also is deserving of the highest praise. The two hymns they rendered were of almost breathtaking beauty, and the audience
sat spellbound until the last note had died away. A great improvement in the group singing was noticeable, particularly in
the last chorus of Let the Lower Lights Be Burning. Milton and Hollingsworth led in prayer. After the quartet had
sung, Dr. Thompson read a few verses from John. Taking as his subject the second test of friendship, he particularly
applied it to our Saviour with the keynote, “Jesus Christ—what He has done for me.” He said in substance: “Jesus
has helped me with the problem of my universe, His presence in solving the ever-recurring question as to what this
vast world is and what it means.”has helped me with the problem of my life, keeping me by the greatness
of His love from the thought that my very existence is worthless. He has solved the problem of my character,
offering an ever-present ideal and inspiration, a goal towards which I may strive. He offers me forgiveness for my sins,
molding and developing my better instincts by His constant fellowship and tolerance.

Officers of the association are elected annually; and it is the duty of the president to call to the attention
and consideration of the student body all matters that affect in any way the athletic affairs of the school. The
Y. M. C. A. has been purposely included among the governing bodies of the college, since it creates a spirit
in the hearts of the students. This spirit is necessary in the government of the student body. Recognizing its object
to be the promotion of Christian fellowship and growth, the encouragement of earnest living among the members of the student
body, the guarding against error, and the opposition to vice; the “Y” is largely instrumental in the maintenance of student
control. Having a general secretary, employed by the college, regular officers elected from the student body at an annual election,
and an advisory council of faculty members, the Y. M. C. A. is conducted in a business-like and systematic manner,
and is doing a great work for the betterment of college conditions.

But, there are other organizations beside the governing bodies on the campus; and they, too, play a big part in
the affairs and activities of the students. The Davidsonian, one of the livest college weeklies in the South, offers service
and experience along journalistic lines. Then, there is the college magazine and annual—both devoted to the portrayal of campus life,
and presenting a fine opening for willing talents. The Glee Club deserves mention, since it is one of the few
organizations that enjoys the privilege of visiting distant cities and states and advertising the college wherever it chances to perform.
To the musically inclined, the Glee Club, the Orchestra, and the Band should prove both interesting and profitable.

The Literary Societies deserve a place of special mention in the list of organizations. Formerly the one big organization on
the campus, the literary societies have suffered apparent neglect in the past few years. But, their importance has never diminished.
A vital factor in the political life of the campus, a school for the cultivation of the voice and intellect,
and the hub around which the majority of students center their interest—the literary societies will always occupy the pinnacle of
importance among the important organizations and institutions on the campus. Four societies: the Eumenean, the Philanthropic, the Pandenic, and the
Metrophilian, compose the group of literary organizations at Davidson. The latter two are off-springs of the former. The literary societies
should be the center of attraction for the student who is desirous of a combination of real honest-to-goodness benefit and
pleasure, but to the lazy and indifferent they offer no inducement.

With the strong list of organizations that exist on the Davidson campus, is it any wonder that students find themselves
forever busy and interested? Is it easy to explain the fine spirit of fellowship and responsibility that is daily exerting
its influence over all the students?

Dr. Thompson closed his intense plea with these impassioned words: “Analogies fail when we deal with Jesus Christ, but I
think we all want to live in Him, dignified, inspired, empowered, and knit to Himself by His boundless love. The
life abundant is the life eternal. What more do you want a friend to do for you than Jesus Christ
does? Don't you think we ought to love Him? He meets the test.”

R. O. T. C. NEWS

A very interesting lecture was made to the students of the Davidson R. O. T. C. unit last Friday at
drill period. The speaker was Lieut. I. H. Kohloss, of the Engineer Corps, on duty at present with the North
Carolina National Guard. The topic of the lecture was Military Mapping. While on the hill, Lieut. Kohloss was the guest
of Captain Weems.

Mrs. C. M. Richards and daughters, Misses Mary and Jane Leighton, were in Montreat for the past weekend.

Mrs. W. M. Hunter, who has been ill for several days, is recovering.

“Working Your Way” Made Feasible

Writing life insurance has enabled many a man to pay his way through college. It is a dignified calling and
a true social service. To induce your fellows to form habits of thrift—to obligate them to put by a little
of their income—to safeguard them against future loss of earning power—is a form of effort that brings keen satisfaction as
well as profit. These are only a few of the reasons why the insurance business today is attracting the very
best brains of America. Write for the full particulars of a plan whereby you can assist yourself through college, and,
at the same time, prepare for a profitable and satisfactory business career.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. Gunter, Vice-Pres. & Agency Manager

New York Cafe
Davidson, N. C.

When Hungry Call On Us

DROP IN SHIELD’S November 3rd and 4th And let Bill Cohen show U the International line of Clothes, also “BILL”
STORY, Rep.
