4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAIN Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN Business Manager

Editorial Staff
--Alumni Editor

Business Staff
FAY THOMPSON Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN Subscription Manager
G. M. GARRISON Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH Typist

L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
J. F. MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY
K. P. O'CONNOR
H. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
B. Y. PITTS
W. H. BRANCH
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES
L. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

MOTHER’S DAY

Sunday is Mother’s Day. This is a day of days, set aside out of the ceaseless rush of days and
seasons for a distinct remembrance in honor to our mothers. It is a day in which we pay homage to
those who are our dearest earthly heritage, and who sum up those ideals that are the finest and greatest in
our lives. Motherhood is a shrine at which we lay our hearts’ truest and noblest love, our earthly hopes and
ambitions, and the trophies that we have accumulated through the love and prayers of our mothers.

It is with a heart and soul full of love and joy that we observe this day. None other can
compare with it, for no other day has so full a significance and meaning. With adoration for those who gave
us life we pay tribute. In a sense, we cannot repay the debt of love we owe, we can only
show the love that swells up in our hearts in a small way. The carols of the birds in the
newly-verduous trees and the flowers that have opened their smiling faces to greet a glad new world all join with
us and worship.

A mother’s love is the purest and most divine love in the world. It knows no surcease nor doubts when
the whole universe turns against us, and when the cries of men ring loud in our ears. Through terrors and
fears it carries on its message of hope to the one whom it has nurtured from its first venture into
human life. Through dark days when all have deserted and all doubt, the wonderful love of a mother never falters.
Trials and tribulations serve only to renew its intensity. Sorrows that must come into our lives serve only to make
the bonds more durable and lasting. Through the dark valley of the shadow of death our mothers walked that we
might have life; through days of care and toil they steadfastly made their way that their ambitions might be ours.
A love that knows no end, and a hope that knows no fulfillment except that we fulfill it. Truly, this
love shall not go unrewarded. During the days when we lisped in childish numbers it followed us, and even today
it hovers over our beings with a steadfast light that never fails. Through days of temptations when our spirits are
prone to falter, and grow weary of the way, the spirit of the mother that is far away permeates our
consciousness, and it cannot be denied. A mother’s love follows when all hope has fled, on the way to the
death chair it stays, and when the spirit is gone, the love lingers, and lingers on.

The men whose names go down on the burnished scrolls of the illustrious are those who were influenced most by
their mothers. They were led to sublime heights because of the ambition that was instilled into their breasts by the
gentle spirit that longed for her son to succeed. The Man of Galilee was assuredly led and guided by the
touch of a mother’s hand, just as by a divine spirit. The songs that were crooned to him in the
velvet darkness of an oriental night conveyed to (Continued on page 8)

Proposed Amendments To The Constitution of The Student Government of Davidson College

Clearer Interpretation of Honor System, Publication’s Union, and Student Store Are Subjects of Proposed Additions to the Constitution—Matter Will be
Voted on in Ten Days

Saturday morning, May 3rd, Albert Hillhouse, retiring president of the student body, and Jim Hendrix, the newly elected executive, read
before the students certain revisions to the student body constitution which the old and new student councils recommended at a
recent meeting. Hendrix, Hillhouse and McIlwaine were appointed the council to recommend certain changes in the constitution, and to draw
up new articles to govern the management of the publications and of the student store.

A more definite conception of the Honor System is given by the revised constitution which will be voted on by
the student body ten days after being laid on the table. The following are the proposed changes in the constitution:

Articles I and III are to remain unchanged.

Article II
Sec. 1. The words printed in black face type shall be added to this section making it read as follows:
“It shall be the duty of the Student Body to elect Student Body officers and to strive at all times
to uphold and preserve the Honor System and all other provisions of the Constitution in every department of college life.”
Sec. 2. The words printed in black face type shall be added to this section making it read as follows:
“It shall be the duty of the President of the Student Body to call meetings of the Student Body when
such meetings are to its best interest, to report any violations of the Honor System or any other provision of
the Constitution which come under his observation, and to preside at these meetings, to call meetings of the Council and
to preside when such meetings are in session; to appoint necessary committees; and to at all times strive toward the
improvement of conditions upon the campus.”

The other sections of this article shall remain unchanged. The above changes are to be made in order to make
these sections conform to the changes made in Articles IV and V.

The proposed changes in Articles IV and V are to make clear the distinction between the Honor System and the
other provisions of the Student Government. For instance, under the present Constitution a man is as much on his honor
not to play a musical instrument at night as he is not to cheat on examinations, and is honor-bound to
report violations of both, making no distinction between them. Under the proposed changes, cheating, stealing, perjury, and failure to report
these offenses are regarded as equal offenses and are placed under the Honor System in Article IV; all other violations
are not regarded as a part of the Honor System, but as a breaking of the Student Body laws which
are enumerated in Article V. These changes make failure to report a violation of the Honor System (Article IV) an
offense equal to the violation itself, for by not reporting violations of the Honor System a man is aiding and
abetting the violator, and is fostering a spirit of dishonor at Davidson.

Article IV
Sec. 1. The sections of this Article shall constitute the Honor System.
Sec. 2. Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain from cheating, either on recitation, reviews, examination, or any other pledge
work.
Sec. 3. Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain from stealing.
Sec. 4. Every student shall be honor-bound to refrain from perjury.
Sec. 5. Every student shall be honor-bound to report any violations of the above sections which come under his observation.

Article V
Sec. 1. No student shall play any musical instrument in any college building between the hours of 7:30 p.m. and
7:30 a.m., except on Saturday and Sunday nights.
Sec. 2. No student shall solicit advertisements for any publications other than the Davidsonian, the Davidson College Magazine, the Annual,
and the Y. M. C. A. Handbook, unless authorized by the Publications Board.
Sec. 3. It shall be the duty of every student to report all violations of the sections of this Article
which come under his observation.

Since the present Article IV is divided into two Articles the numbers of the subsequent articles are to be moved
up one.

Article VI
Article VI shall consist of Article five of the present Constitution unchanged.

Article VII
The present Article VI shall be omitted from the Constitution and in its place shall be substituted the following article.
The purpose of this article is to ensure better financial management for the student publications.
Sec. 1. There shall be chosen annually a body to be known as the Publications Board. This board shall have
complete supervision over the financial administration of the three student publications, The Davidsonian, The Davidson College Magazine, and the Annual.
Sec. 2. This board shall be composed of five members, three students elected by the Student Body and two Faculty
members appointed by the College Administration. The three student members shall be elected from six nominees—the staff of each publication
nominating two of this number. The president of this board shall be one of the student members and shall be
elected at the first regular meeting of the board.
Sec. 3. The Business ManagersHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

of the above-named publications shall be appointed by and shall be directly responsible to, the Publications Board. Recommendations for the
Business Manager of each publication shall be submitted to the Board by the staff of that publication. (Explanation: It shall
be understood that the board shall accept the Business Managers already elected for next year but that these managers shall
be responsible to the board as stated in this article.)

Sec. 4. The board shall have the power to remove from office any Business Manager who is found to be
incompetent or undesirable.

Sec. 5. This board shall meet at least once every month. The Business Manager of each publication shall be required
to submit a complete financial report at each regular meeting of the board.

Article VIII

Article VIII shall consist of the present Article VII.

Article IX

Article IX shall consist of the present Article VIII with the words in boldface type added. This change is made
so that the Honor System and all other regulations may be brought to the attention of the Student body at
the opening of school.

Sec. 1. Article II, Article IV, and Article V of this Constitution shall be read with appropriate explanations before the
entire Student Body at a meeting held not later than one week after the opening of school for the fall
term of each college year.

Article X

Article X shall consist of the present Article IX with certain grammatical corrections and the insertion of the following sentence
in Section 2. No member of the Student Council shall be a member of the Court of Control. This provision
was originally in the section but was omitted through a typographical error in the publication of the Handbook.

Sec. 5. Every student shall be honor-bound to report all violations of the Honor System which come under his observation.
Failure to do so shall be regarded as a violation of the Honor System.

Article V

Sections 9 and 10 are added as additional regulations of the Student Government. Section 9 is added to protect for
the student publications alone the advertising which makes them possible and to prevent the soliciting of advertising by individuals for
their personal gain.

Sec. 1. No student shall be guilty of lying.

Sec. 2. No student shall be guilty of drinking alcoholic liquors or having the same in his possession on the
campus.

Sec. 3. No student shall be guilty of gambling.

Sec. 4. No student shall be guilty of leading an immoral life.

Sec. 5. No student shall be guilty of engaging in any form of hazing whatsoever.

Sec. 6. All students shall respect college property, and no student shall be guilty of willfully mutilating it or destroying
it in any way.

Sec. 7. All students shall at all times conduct themselves as becomes gentlemen and students of Davidson College, while on
the Hill or representing the college in any capacity while away from the college.

Sec. 8. There shall be no playing of musical instruments or unnecessary noise between the hours of 10 PM and
7 AM.

Article XI

The following new Article is to provide for the management of the Student Body Store:

Sec. 1. There shall be chosen annually a Board of Directors to supervise the operation of the Student Body Store,
and to have complete control over the funds accruing therefrom.

Sec. 2. This Board shall be composed of five members: two students—one to be elected by the incoming Student Council—the
President of the Student Body to serve as the other; one faculty member chosen by the outgoing Board of Directors;
and one Faculty member and one student chosen by the Athletic Council. (Explanation: Representatives from Athletic Council because the plan
is to combine the Commissary with the present store. The Commissary is controlled at present by the Athletic Council.)

Sec. 3. The President of the Board shall be a student member, and the Treasurer shall be a Faculty member—these
to be elected at the first regular meeting of the Board.

Sec. 4. The managing staff of the store shall be appointed by, and shall be directly responsible to the Board
of Directors.

Sec. 5. The Board shall have the power to remove from office any member of the managing staff who is
found to be incompetent or undesirable.

Sec. 6. This Board shall meet at least once every month. The manager of the store shall be required to
submit a complete financial report, and to deposit the monthly net profits with the Treasurer, at each regular meeting of
the Board.

Chaff

HAMLET AND EGGLET

A mellow melodrama of Ye Olden Dayes Merrie Englande, in two mellifluous Acts, with one actress.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

Hamlet—deposed king of Denmark with a fried character.
Egglet—a hard-boiled one who wields a wicked spit.
Omelet—daughter of the king, with a scrambled disposition.
Eggnogg—the king’s fool; always sociable.
Count de Paris—a Knight of the Garter, king’s chief supporter.
Kitchen Scullions, Royal Cake Eaters, and others.

ACT I

(The King's royal kitchen where Egglet the cook is industriously concocting a broth for the king. The kitchen scullions are
dressing two fat oxen for the banquet table, while the handsome young face of Egglet smileth not. They gather together
and sing):

We love our sovereign lord and king
And fight to save his banners,
But cook we must, in him we trust
To furnish the bananas.
The grapefruit season’s over now,
And good hen fruit is scarce—

(Their merriment is broken in upon by the king, who is highly wroth, and his trusty Count de Paris. The
king advances).

KING: What ho, the watch! To rout, these knaves who defileth my hash emporium with their brawling. Even my trusty
Magnavox maketh not such unseemly noise. Zounds! Ho! and is this arrogant young scoundrel who brews the broth, the youth
that seeketh the hand of my daughter? That an offspring of mine should sink to such likings pleaseth me not.
Come, my brave Count de Paris, and gaze upon the knave. What sayest thou churlish son of a bootlegger?

EGGLET: Odsfish! my lord, and thou scareth me unto the dance of St. Vitus. Only this sovereign—Thy daughter, Omelet, is
all the world to me and I would to the altar with her. My means are small but I meaneth
well. What sayeth thou, most garrulous monarch?

KING (with anger in his heart and his feet in his boots): Knave, never bespeak thyself such of a noble
scion of the house of Hamlet. Get thee hence, vile creature.

COUNT DE PARIS: King, thou forgetteth thyself. Remembereth not that this hash hound distilleth the rare vintage that thou approved
so muchly. Let him marry thy daughter, the buxom Omelet.

KING: I rescind my vow, and sayeth this. Let the lad present before me a new dish, such as has
never been set before a king, and I resign the apple of my optical organs to his protecting care and
custody.

(Exeunt the king and his supporters).

EGGLET (in pensive melancholy, he scratches his cranium with an unused battle axe): The only solution and means that I
perceiveth is to procure the great egg that Goodman Robin de Oeuf has at his inn. He sayeth that it
is a relic of the stone age, and it is big enough to make a human stone blind. Zounds! At
once varlets, procure the great egg from Robin and for the table let us fix it.

OMELET (beckoning to Egglet from a distant hall, whom, as she kisses his outstretched hand, sticky with dough): Aha, my
Lord of the Culinary, thou hast enough dough for me. Marry we must, is it not so?

(Exeunt, et cetera).

ACT II

(The royal dining hall of King Hamlet, who is not stopping to soliloquize. The festive board resounds under the smack
of lips and gurgling of coco-colas. A fanfare of trumpets and a huge egg, the size of a young elephant,
is brought forth by the retainers of the kitchen, on a pure aluminum platter. It is set before the king).

KING: Zounds! What an egg. Truly it seemeth enough even for my trusty knights-at-arms here, Count de Paris, and Count
de Change.

OMELET: By my troth and bobbed locks, it maketh a show. If it pleases my venerable parent, the arms of
Egglet are only for me. (She sighs).

KING: Fast, ye varlets, open up the egg that we may eat.

(The henchmen come forward and attack the proposed meal with javelins and electric drills. A stirring is seen inside the
egg).

What knaves, bend to your work. Heave ho, my hearties.

(Another crack, the shell flies open and a young Pterodactyl blinks its eyes, crawls forth and stretches its wings. The
heat of the King’s words has hatched it from its confinement of a million years. It advances upon the king,
hooks its talons in the bald head and flies away to a distant park).

OMELET (weeping): How annoying. There goeth papa on another wild goose chase. Who will have me now?

EGGLET: I be the lucky fellow to claim you by right of conquest. ’Twas I who brought the egg. Shall
we marry and repair to my apartments in the suburbs where the chariot traffic is not so heavy? Yes?

OMELET: Egg-zactly, my dear Egglet, let us to the altar, where we may get the halter.

(Embraces, etc., as courtiers and courtly hangers-on vent approval with huzzas. Eggnogg starts a joyous song).

END
