THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924

Junior Speaking Plans Rapidly Materializing
Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Committee Hard at Work Rounding Out Plans for Week of Fun
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00

The Junior class plans to have Junior Speaking this year during the Easter holidays. A committee has already been appointed to arrange for the speaking and social activities of the week and has been at work for some time. This committee is made up of the following members of the Junior class: Buck Shaw, chairman; D. G. Wilson, vice-chairman; E. R. Regen, Red Anderson, Cheek Monk, Jim Appleby, and Fred Smith.

Our Annual Intelligence Test
Shorty Love's latest song: "I'm in two bits next"

The Junior class expects to make next Junior Speaking the biggest and best yet, according to Buck Shaw, president of the class. To defray the expenses of this week, a lyceum course of four numbers is being brought to Davidson. Advance sales of the season tickets are reported large. Prof. Erwin, the faculty supervisor for the lyceum, made a short talk in chapel Tuesday morning in behalf of it.

Raleigh Cafe
Fancy Groceries
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys.
See Me for Feeds, Coal, etc.
Phone 20

E. J. HEATH
221 West Trade St.

TO SPEAK
(Continued from page 1)

serving as the head of the Teachers’ Training School. The subject chosen for his address on Thursday evening is eminently fitting, in view of the fact that the Czechs have occupied a prominent place in the limelight of international affairs in recent years; and especially since the Moravian church, of which Professor Heath is a member and a minister, originated in Czech Slovakia in the early part of the fifteenth century. Dr. T. W. Lingle, a personal friend of Professor Heath, will introduce the speaker. Professor Heath will begin his address at 8:00 o'clock, this hour being set so that members of the literary societies may be enabled to attend the lecture after their meetings. All students and townspeople are invited to attend.

CRACKER BOYS EAT AND MAKE MERRY WEDNESDAY

Wednesday night the sons of the Empire State gathered once more for their annual get-together meeting. Of the 55 Georgia boys on the Hill, after hearty eating, they recounted their injuries and other things. The new men were formally welcomed by the older ones. The orations, praises, and reminiscences of the Cracker boys while on the Hill were recounted. Monk enumerated the deeds of former Georgia men and set a high mark for the class of '28 to aim for.

CALENDAR
THURSDAY
7:30 - American Literary Society

A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU9:00 Philanthropic Literary Society

of milk on his tail, to swim across the Delago river, if the thermometer registered zero and there wasn't any Delago gathering would not be complete without that serious-faced boy, Piggy Martin, present. Piggy made the hit of the evening with his epilogue on The Black-faced Preacher, which was typical at our black-faced brethren, for instance, Jethro! Sigman, however, was the one who received the biggest vote of thanks, as he had the most important part in the program, namely, that of the feed. It was declared by everyone present to be second to none. Not only did everybody have enough, but quite a few had more than enough. The club broke up for the evening.

Answer the following sentences in less than three words, omitting all references to Jethro and Shorty Howell:

1. Why don't they?
2. Which is more deceptive, a falsetto voice or a false set of teeth?
3. Should proteins be eaten with or without cream?
4. Is it permissible to serve spaghetti wound on a bobbin?
5. Should caramels be served with watermelon?
6. In serving fishballs, should an ordinary tennis racket be used?
7. Should cream be scalded before it is whipped?
8. Is it proper for potatoes to turn their jackets inside out?

Freshmen answering all the questions correctly will receive a solid gold, stem-winding watch.

When Charlie Hunter tried to buy a pair of shoes the other day, the salesman told him that he couldn't take his measure. He said he'd have to have his foot measured and he didn’t have room inside, and it was raining outside.

Harlee Branch wants to know what has become of the old-fashioned girl who thought she was engaged after the first kiss.

A Freshman asked Sook Boggs if he was the Sanitary Inspector of the R. O. T. C.

When in Charlotte, take your meals at the Transfer Company.

Why do you doubt Him? Jesus is saying to you, ‘Follow me,’ He can take the meanest and poorest man in the world and make a messenger out of him. Why do we doubt such a God that can take a sinner and a law-breaker like Matthew and make a disciple and a writer out of him as He did? Look at a man out of the eyes of the world and then look at him out of the eyes of Jesus, and you will see a great difference in the same man. Remember that ‘Man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart.’

I once knew a drunken man so sodden with liquor that all of his neighbors shuddered and got out of his way whenever they saw him coming. He was an outcast and a beast. One day God said, ‘I need that man,’ and took him and converted him. That man was John Newton, the great theologian.

Another man that was an outcast and an almost inhuman creature that could curse so that he even made a sailor ashamed of himself, but who was taken by God and who later lived a life of usefulness, was none other than John Bunyan, who wrote ‘Pilgrim's Progress.’

God wants us to work for Him. If we would but listen, we could hear His call to us to ‘get into the game’ and help make this old world a happier place. May all of us determine fully in our hearts to follow the Lord Jesus Christ.

FRIDAY:
8:00 Biddle Quintet. Benefit Transfer Company

SATURDAY:
8:30 Sophomores vs. Seniors.

SUNDAY:
1:15 Training Class.
2:00 Ministerial Association.
7:30 Philanthropic Literary Society.
7:30 Metrophilian Literary Society.

TUESDAY:
7:30 Philanthropic Literary Society.
7:30 Metrophilian Literary Society.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
Cleaning and Pressing

FORMER RED AND BLACK

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman's and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Scofield Tea Room:
Home Cooking
Good Eats All the Time!

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

We are receiving daily shipments of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHES
Latest Styles
Manhattan Shirts
Selz Six $ Shoes