THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

Returned Missionary Vividly Depicts Poverty and Superstition of Africa

Davidson Graduate Tells of Conditions—Illustration of Talk Proves Interesting

Last Sunday morning Rev. Mr. Plumer Smith, a returned missionary from Africa, filled the local pulpit and delivered an illustrated lecture-sermon. Mr. Smith is a graduate of Davidson, finishing his course in 1907, and after attending the seminary for three years, began his missionary work in Africa. He stated that this was his fourth trip to the States since his first advent into the heart of Africa.

In his talk, Mr. Smith emphasized the extreme poverty of the people, which he said is the first thing that impresses a newcomer there. He spoke of the crude methods of cultivation, asserting that every effort to make them change to better means has proven an utter failure. An interesting fact in connection with working was that the women were forced to do the manual labor in the field. “Let the women do the work, do the work, do the work, and the men have all the fun,” is an applicable saying in Africa. As long as a man is sitting down, he has no serious objections to work.

The speaker showed a large number of curios, among which were a belt of palm fibre, some money in the shape of beads and copper crosses, ornaments of ivory and iron, a Cassava root from which their bread is made, a whip of hippo hide, a curious and rather unmusical musical instrument, an African lip-stock, some native cloth, rugs, and other equally interesting curios, depicting in this manner many customs and the kind of life these people lead.

Mr. Smith explained that their worship is entirely of evil spirits and gave some curious superstitions, showing a large number of charms of various uses. Several appealing instances of the power of Christianity in the hearts of the Africans, and a powerful and effective call for help, in money, prayer, and life, closed his interesting and helpful address.

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT —
Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte Winston-Salem Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

In addition to this service, Mr. Smith spoke to several other audiences during the day. He filled Dr. Richard’s pulpit again at the evening service, and at this time he told of the lives of several of the missionaries of the Southern Church, asking for the prayers of the people. Several of these were in distress, and it was for these that he asked them to pray. He gave a brief but interesting discourse on the stages of sleeping sickness, its effect, and possible cure.

After this appeal for the missionaries, the speaker followed with a series of illustrations, which vividly brought to his hearers the ignorance of the people of Africa. He spoke specifically of the life of the woman, showing that they are sold to pay debts, from the age of six years and on; that they are regarded only as “tools;” that mother love after a child is four years old is unknown to an African woman, and many other incidents repulsive and distasteful to the American Christian mind. Some of his illustrations were comical, yet behind the comic was a pity, inspired because of their utter disregard of what ought to be embodied in the life of a woman.

One Time an Instructor at Presbyterian School

Davidson, Jan. 12—The news of the death of Professor Basil Lanneau Gildersleeve, occurring at his home in Baltimore Wednesday, January 9th, will be received by hundreds of his old students and by thousands who knew him by reputation and by his pen with unfeigning sorrow. A letter received here today from Professor C. W. E. Miller, his successor in the chair of Greek in the Johns Hopkins University, states that the funeral would be held in Baltimore today.

Two of the senior members of the Davidson faculty were students under Gildersleeve in his palmiest days and took their doctor’s degree under him, majoring in the Greek department. It was only two weeks ago at the meeting of the American Philological Association in Princeton that salutations and warm greetings of love and admiration were sent to the distinguished and well-known scholar and that there was read from him a letter full of sparkle and wit and classic allusion that indicated that his mind was as clear as crystal and his intellect as vigorous and strong as in days of yore, despite his 92 years, and the hope was entertained that reaching this age of more than four score and a half his bow would abide in strength and that possibly he might round out an even five score. But it was not to be.

In his lifetime, it was a recognized fact that he had no superior in the classical world, certainly in the department of syntax of the Greek languages, and possibly in its literature, that he had very few equals.

MISSIONARIES NEEDED FOR SHORT TERM PERIOD —

Will you please give the necessary publicity to the following special calls for short-term and regular missionary appointments that have been brought to our attention recently:

Three-Year Term Appointments—Unmarried Men
A young man to teach English in the high school and higher grades in the school for the children of missionaries, Nanking; also take charge of the athletics in the school. Correspondence in regard to this should be directly with Rev. Samuel Mills, American Presbyterian Mission, Nanking, Kiangsu, China, one of the directors.

Two teachers of English in the University of Peking and one with athletic ability. President J. Leighton Stuart will be in this country four more weeks and hopes to secure the necessary candidates before leaving.

A young college graduate is needed immediately to serve as Assistant Boys’ Work Secretary in the Y. M. C. A., Honolulu, Hawaii. He must be athletic and able to win the underprivileged Oriental boys. Further information can be secured by writing direct to Mr. Lloyd Killiam, General Secretary Y. M. C. A., Honolulu.

DAVIDSON SORROWS OVER DEATH OF GILDERSLEEVE
Noted Greek Scholar and Writer

Vicente Blasco Ibanez
Lionel Barrymore
Alma Rubens
and an all-star cast

A Cosmopolitan Production
“Enemies of Women”
A Gorgeous Spectacle
Cosmopolitan’s Production of Blasco Ibanez’s Great Novel Filmed Mostly in Europe

One of the most artistic and lavish productions yet made by Cosmopolitan Productions is its film version of Vicente Blasco Ibanez’s latest novel, “Enemies of Women,” which will be screened Saturday night at the gymnasium. Cosmopolitan has made every effort to make “Enemies of Women” one of the most beautiful pictures ever made. It is being distributed by Goldwyn-Cosmopolitan. The action of the picture takes place in Monte Carlo, in Nice, Paris, and in Russia. In order to have the locations entirely accurate, the entire company was sent to Europe and spent six weeks in Monte Carlo, Nice, and Paris. The interior sets were made on a lavish scale. These were designed by the noted Viennese artist and designer.

Who Knows?
In the opening game of her 1920 basketball season, Davidson completely upset the dope by defeating Carolina. The contest was unusually hard-fought andInteresting throughout.

Dwight Chalmers was selected to lead the Wildcats this year, and the prospects are that this skillful player will be the leader of a most successful team.

February 26th Wildcats Win With Whirling Windup

Staging a sensational comeback in the final three minutes of play, by ringing up four goals in rapid succession, the Wildcats snatched victory from the hands of the University of South Carolina and won by a 27 to 25 count.

Million Dollar Campaign Great Success

Million mark reached and final figures to be heard from yet. The latest figures on the Million Dollar Campaign show that $1,000,918.00 has been subscribed and still other contributions are to be heard from. Laundry, enlarged heating plant, and dining hall to be ready next fall. Plans for new dormitory are made. The State Volunteer Conference meets here March 12th-14th and over 100 delegates are expected; a splendid program is being arranged.

Magnificent banner presented to the local R.O.T.C. Unit by Mr. Pharr, of Charlotte. The R.O.T.C. makes a creditable showing before Government inspector. Complimented for military appearance and discipline.

A Better Davidson Planned at Big Banquet

Revised constitution adopted by student body. Professors and Alumni deliver inspiring speeches on “Davidson Spirit,” “The Honor System,” “Athletics.” Boarding house ladies furnish real feed—band has “pep.” On last Thursday evening at the Selwyn Hotel, Charlotte, N.C., the management of the Davidsonian gave their annual banquet for the year 1910. Under the management of C.J. Mathews, business manager, and with the aid of the staff, one of the most delightful and successful banquets ever given by a Davidson College organization was staged and carried out in every detail.

Genesis theatrical and operatic sets, Joseph Urban. His set for the palace of Prince Lubimoff is one of the most gorgeous ever built for a motion picture. In it, the abilities of this master craftsman are revealed at their best. The set of the Prince’s villa at Monaco is just as beautiful in its way, but not on so big a scale as the palace set. The decorations, costuming, and lighting of these scenes were under the direction of Mr. Urban. Many of the gowns worn by Alma Rubens in “Enemies of Women” were created by Poiret in Paris from designs by Mrs. Gretl Thurlow, daughter of Mr. Urban.

John Lynch prepared the scenario of the picture from Blasco Ibanez’s novel and succeeded in making a picturesque, colorful, and coherent photoplay from it. The picture has had successful runs at the $2 top scale of prices in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, Boston, and other cities.

Single or Married Men

Two men with at least the degree of M.A. in English or Education to teach English in Peking University. All these appointments except that for Honolulu are for sailing in the summer of 1924. Travel expenses are paid out and back, and a salary that will cover living expenses though not estimated to warrant one in getting rid of a college debt. It should go without saying that every one of these appointments requires men with an earnest Christian life purpose.

Yours very cordially,
(Miss) Vernon Halliday,
Associate Candidate Secretary.

Mrs. Frazer Hood leaves soon for New York, where she will join her sisters, the Misses Wagner. After a short stay in New York, they will sail for a month’s tour of the Southern waters. They expect to visit Bermuda, Cuba, Porto Rico, and Panama.

The town of Davidson has not yet succeeded in its efforts to secure a water supply. The Virginia Well & Machinery Co., of Richmond, Va., are drilling the eight-inch well at a depth of 290 feet. As yet very little water has been secured.

Wildcat Grapplers

(Continued from page 2)

Concerning the prospects of the squad, by the coach, it is believed that last year’s men will be the liveliest contenders for all vacancies. Several Freshmen, eligible under the ruling in regard to Freshmen on varsity teams, are showing up well. Captain Lindamood, Selser, and Cromartie, lettermen of last year, will no doubt prove favorites. Patterson and White are showing good form also. With the completion of the plans for the last meet, which are now under way, six meets will have been scheduled for this year's wrestling season. Johnnie Selser as manager has a good show of representative teams to match up with his “Rastlin’ Wildcats,” and with the advent of time, the students will see the future conquerors of Strangler Lewis rounding into strenuous action.

Michael and Birrens, of Gastonia, are expected to return this week to complete the new electric lighting system for the town.

Professor Currie Talks to Students at Class

The college Student Class of Sunday School met at the church Sunday afternoon at 3:30 p.m. Professor Archibald Currie conducted the class, giving a concise talk on the topic. The lesson for the week was found in 47:1-12. It was the story of Jacob presented to Pharaoh when he came into Egypt to live with his son Joseph. Professor Currie imparted to the class a keen insight into the individual character of each of the people in the story. For the next six months, the lessons are to be about the story of the Hebrews, their life in Egypt, the departure therefrom, the sojourn in the wilderness, and the final settling of a new country by them. It is hoped that a larger number of students will come out each Sunday afternoon to hear the interesting and instructive lectures of Professor Currie on this most remarkable race of people.

Landscape Gardeners Work on New Richardson Field

“Davidson will soon have the prettiest athletic field in the South,” says Mr. E.S. Draper, of Charlotte, architect in charge of the work on Richardson field. Mr. Van Sant, Davidson engineer, adds that it will probably be the best equipped in this section of the country. The field comprises two complete football gridirons, one for varsity scrimmage and one for the varsity games. It contains a modern and durable quarter-mile track, and a baseball diamond. No part of the baseball infield is on either of the football fields. This will permit the grass to grow on the football fields all during the baseball season and the turf will be preserved the year round. There are 50 men at work on the field at present sowing grass, planting shrubbery around the fence, and planting a row of poplars along the lower end of the field. The bleachers will probably be completed by next fall.

In the lexicon of youth, which Fate reserves for a bright manhood, there’s just one word to sum up the college student’s idea of dress! Ease! Hence the success of our young men’s Fall and Winter suits. Rather full backs with perfectly soft fronts. Trousers fairly wide. Good selection from $35.00.

MELLON'S
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver