THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS NOTES

North Carolina

Whitener, Nite tes} High Chapter; principal of Cornelius High School, a member of the Trinity College chapter; and Mr. Blythe,
of Huntersville.

'07—Rev. W. C. McLauchlin recently left the United States to take charge of his station at Haichow Ku, China.

'18—Dr. James B. Woods, Jr., left in July to occupy the chair of Languages in the University of Peking, Peking,
China.

'10—Dr. L. C. Brand is now located in the foreign field of Korea.

'23—J. H. McRainey, “Heck,” is now teaching at Oakdale High School, near Charlotte.

'23—Wallace H. Moore is professor of History at Concord High School.

Ex-'24—Robert Polk Long, “Bobbie,” is now connected with the post office in Charlotte.

Ex-'24—H. G. Ansley is now studying medicine at Georgia Medical College, Augusta, Ga.

'23—J. Benson Sloan is now a student at Columbia Theological Seminary.

'23—W. S. Buchanan and R. P. Brown were visitors on the Hill the past weekend.

ALUMNI NEWS FROM PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATION

At the annual initiation of new members of the Gamma Chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa held Friday, December 5th
in Shearer Hall, the following Davidson alumni were initiated:

'80, Rev. W. B. Jennings, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church at Germantown, Pa.;

'81, Dr. James B. Nesbit, specialist in New York City;

'04, Dr. J. P. Matheson, eye, ear, and nose specialist, Charlotte, N. C.;

'05, Rev. W. T. Thompson, D.D., Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.;

'06, Rev. Robert King, D.D., general evangelist for the Synod of Ga. (Rev. Mr. Lacy was unable to attend the
ceremony due to the fact that his church was host to the Federal Council of the Churches of Christ in
America which is in session at Atlanta);

'09, Rev. J. J. Murray, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Lexington, Va.;

'93, Dr. J. M. Douglas, professor of Physics, Davidson College.

DR. CURRELL (Continued from page 1)

Following the presentation of certificates, Dr. T. W. Lingle introduced the speaker of the evening, Dr. Currell, who is Dean
of the Graduate School of the University of South Carolina. Dr. Currell selected as his subject "A Plea for the
Humanities," and gave a very interesting and instructive lecture. What Greek and Latin have contributed to civilization was the main
theme of Dr. Currell’s talk. To Greece, he attributed the fundamental conceptions of art, sculpture, architecture, mathematics, astronomy, and other
sciences. Greece has also been prominent in the spirit world, stressing the personality and soul. Aristotle, a Greek, gave us
the characteristics of philosophy, psychology, rhetoric, metaphysics, and kindred basic subjects. Dr. Currell stated that we owe our ideas of
government to Rome, the home of the Latin language. The Roman Empire was one of the finest governments ever known.
The Romans contributed to modern civilization the idea of quick communication to distant places, good roads, and other equally important
things. They were more practical than the Greeks and put many of the Greek theories into use. It was Dr.
Currell’s firm conviction that one can get a liberal education from a minute study of Plato, Dante, Shakespeare, and the
Bible. He stated that in the Bible was found every kind of literature: the poem, drama, lyric, oration, sermon, prose,
proverb, love story, and the romance. His talk was concluded by stressing the Bible as a giver of life as
well as a symposium of literature. The chief speaker of the evening, Dr. Currell, is a member of the Washington
and Lee Chapter. Dr. Currell’s address on The Humanities was well received by his audience who found in him an
interesting and enlightening speaker. Dr. Currell was of especial interest to Davidson students as well as the faculty; some of
the faculty having been classmates with him and others having had courses under him when he was a member of
the local faculty. After the address delivered by Dr. Currell in Shearer Hall, members of the fraternity, with wives and
friends, enjoyed the annual banquet given at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. Other members of the fraternity who were present were:
Dr. J. P. Munroe of Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. A. A. McGeachy, pastor of Second Presbyterian Church, Charlotte, N. C.,
of the classes of '85 and '07 respectively, both members of the local chapter; Dr. J. P. Sloan, Charlotte, N.
C., a member of the University of North Carolina chapter.

Miss Mary Thompson and Elizabeth Potts spent the weekend in Myers Park.

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St
CIGARS

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

By Ossie Wald Jones

Dear Students:

Since both the Open Forum and the Peanut Parcher refuse absolutely to publish my plea in their allotted columns, and
Mr. Chaff doesn't recognize desirable copy, I shall appeal to you directly—through the columns and print of our own Davidsonian.
Gentlemen, do you realize that we are living in the millennium? Has the delightful discovery yet been yours? Now the
ideal of 50 years has been realized. Now the hopes and visions of our great grandparents have become actualities. The
yesterdays of mud have yielded and succumbed to the today of walks. Yes: I refer to the tiny ribbon of
Atlas compound that wends its timid way from the architectural marvels of dormitory row on and on and on for
countless millimeters to the very doors of the Rotsee arsenal. What achievement of human progress rivals this? None, I say.
It even surpasses the splendid reincarnation of Chambers—destroyed by the greedy flames and resurrected by our fearless sons. Yea, even
the heroic suppression of Sam. And having attained that forwhich our forefathers so valiantly contended. Would it not be fitting
that our success be commemorated in some concrete manner? I appeal to your generosity and common sense. In the dim
and distant past, we were compelled with each burst of tears to wade through those “times that try men’s souls.”
Now we chuckle serenely at that slimy sea of mud. Now we may traverse the spacious confines of Asfalt Avinoo
and sneer at the terrain’s mad effort to dampen our soles. But space and time demand that I bring this
stirring entreaty to the apex of its appeal. So, to be short but brief, may we, the residents of Davidson
College’s dormitories, not sacrifice a little on our luxuries and contribute a few of our spare pennies to a grand
and noble purpose? Gentlemen, I propose that we let not that historic revolutionary instrument go down to utter decay and
ruin. Oh, may we be brought to understand the undying gratitude that will be ours at the hands of posterity
if we but elevate that grand old veteran, the cement mixer, which has come into our midst and diligently labored,
unconcerned at the horror of Rustic Beauty, to a place of honor on this campus. Shall this mixer go down
unheralded and unsung? O di immortales, non sit! Rather than commit that monstrous wrong, let each of us dig deep
in the pockets of our old blue jeans and with a long and lusty cheer put over the campaign of
raising up the necessary iron men to perch the veteran vanquisher of mud on a pedestal of granite and preserve
its complexion with three coats of Woolworth’s Golden Glow Crackless Varnish.

The Final “Y” Service
Popular Professor Will Bring Final Message of Year to Davidson Students

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle will be the speaker for the Y. M. C. A. service next Sunday night. He is
popular both on the campus and in town. Everybody knows the kind of addresses he can deliver, and so may
judge for himself as to whether he can afford to miss this one or not. His splendid messages for all
occasions have done a great deal to make him one of the favored professors among the students. This is the
last service before Christmas and is going to be a Christmas service. Music will be one of the main features.
Special numbers will be given, and “Sim” Bryant will lead a number of suitable songs. A good attendance is expected
at this, the last service before Christmas, to get the right spirit for the holidays from the “Y.” The larger
the number who join in the songs, the merrier they will be, and the better the start that each one
will get toward a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.

Weldon Brown has returned from the hospital in Statesville where he underwent an operation.

Davidson to Pay Homage to Dispeller of Mud---The Glorified Cement Mixer

GLEE CLUB'S FIRST PERFORMANCE HERE
(Continued from page 1)

This performance of the glee club was the first of the annual tour, which covers a period of seven days
and a territory ranging from Rome, Ga., to Charlotte, N.C. In addition to these places, concerts will be given at
Spartanburg, Decatur, Greenville, and Atlanta. The program opened with the full chorus singing "The Joy of the Hunter" and "Lamp
in the West." A comedy solo with the chorus accompanying was sung by Piggy Martin, leader of the club. Several
encores were given, after which Ed Wilson sang several popular songs in his usual forceful manner; Russell, past master of
jazzistic piano pumping, played his accompaniments. The symphony orchestra led sway for three brilliant selections: "Sentry" and "Tannhauser March" being
given by this melodious outfit. The stringed instruments and the cornets and clarinets made a pleasing volume of harmony, and
the skillful playing of Purdy at the piano helped to make this feature one of the best on the entire
program.

Then to this brilliant array came the quartet composed of Wilson, McClain, Mitts, and Foster, who rendered a number of
pieces which caught the sense of everyone in the audience. A violin solo by J. S. McRae and a vocal
solo by D. G. Wilson were especially good features. Under Crayton’s leadership, the jazz orchestra went through a series of
musical convolutions that gained the immediate delight of the enthusiastic listeners. Count Davis and Russell hit all the high spots,
while Joe Earnest, Pootie Crayton, Peewee McCravey, and the rest held the band down on the floor during the jazziest
pieces. After several more numbers by the chorus, the Kiser Twins entertained with their coon songs and dances. They employed
the guitar and banjo dexterously while harmonizing away with their well-paired voices. The students and others clapped again and again
to call them back for one more song. The chorus and the symphony orchestra came back strong in the second
half of the program and rendered some real music. The "Anvil Chorus" and "Love and Roses" were played with great
feeling by the orchestra, and several encores were given. J. S. Gray sang a solo and another quartet composed of
Martin, Lockhart, Lowrance, and Wilson sang some humorous numbers. The string trio, consisting of the Earnest Brothers and Proctor Thompson,
made things hum with their harmonious offerings. "Asleep in the Deep," a bass solo by E. M. Fitts, was enjoyed.
The concert was ended by the singing of "Love's Old Sweet Song," "Rio," and at last "O! Davidson," which brought
the whole house to their feet.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GREETINGS---28ers!
Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes--for ANY occasion, and he'll tell you “GILMER-MOORE’S” in
Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear--they’re all to be found here NOW!

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE
SHOES LUGGAGE

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE —- THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in
your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company - Insurance Department McAlister Carson, Manager Charlotte, N. C. Phone 3940

Young Men’s
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE

Headquarters For Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium & Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money
College Suits
