THEDAVI Vol. XII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON > DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 18, 1924 No. 1

History-Breaking Enrollment Exceeds Six Hundred

Hendrix, Covington and Price are Speakers at Opening “Y” Service

Campus Leaders Talk of College Activities at Large Student Gathering

MAC BEALL LEADS SERVICE

Davidson Men Present Cause of Student in Literary, Athletic and Religious Work

Jim Hendrix, president of the Student Body; Ted Covington, president of the Athletic Association, and Harry Price, president of the
Y. M. C. A., were the speakers at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sunday evening in Shearer
Hall. Each of these leaders in the life of the student body gave short, pointed talks which were thoroughly appreciated
by the 360 students in attendance. Mac Beall, of the “Y” cabinet, presided, reading the scripture and introducing the speakers
for the evening. The scripture was Matthew 25:31-46.

Jim Hendrix raised in the minds of his hearers three important questions, giving a short discourse on each. The first
question asked was “Why Did You Come to College?”

“Your answer to that question is that you came to get an education. But what do you mean by that?
Do you mean to make of yourself a walking encyclopedia? Do you mean to make of yourself a great athlete,
and to put athletics above everything else in your college life? Or do you come to college with the intention
of having a four-year vacation, a ceaseless round of pleasures. Seize upon a serious purpose in life, get something definite
in mind toward which to work, use every opportunity to improve yourself, realizing that your life here is (Continued on
page 8)

President Martin Ill After Tour of Europe

Davidson Head Suffering With Bronchial-Pneumonia in Charlotte Hospital

A shadow of sorrow and anxiety has hovered over Davidson for the past two weeks, due to the severe illness
of Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, who is confined to his bed in the Charlotte Sanitarium, gradually
recovering from an attack of bronchial pneumonia. Dr. Martin became sick at sea, while returning from a tour of Europe.
The ship physician diagnosed Dr. Martin's illness as typhoid fever, but upon being carried to the hospital, the symptoms were
found to be those of pneumonia.

Dr. Martin, in company with his wife and daughter, Miss Eloise Martin, spent practically the whole of the summer vacation
touring Europe. They visited points of interest in England, France and Italy, and were en route to America when Dr.
Martin first became ill. His condition grew steadily worse, and upon his arrival in Charlotte, his physician immediately had him
carried to the Sanitarium, where he has been in a dangerous condition for the past two weeks. The attending doctors
were alarmed over his condition for many days and were doubtful over the possibilities of his recovery. During the past
several days, however, Dr. Martin has grown continually better, and has responded to treatment very satisfactorily. His physician believes that
the crisis has been passed, and that Dr. Martin will be out of immediate danger within a short time.

Wildcats for the Opening Game With Elon

When Coach W. L. (Monk) Younger runs his scarlet-jerseyed squad out on Richardson Field Saturday to usher in the 1924
North Carolina intercollegiate football season, a Davidson machine of nine letter men and two fellows “up from the ranks” will
line up against the Elon aggregation. Three weeks of hard, heavy and grinding work, for the 10 days preceding college
opening doubly so, skull practices, blackboard talks, position studies, not to mention the two months of spring practice in Black's
cow pasture, all have combined to develop the squad from a mass of letter men, varsity men, substitutes, and ex-freshmen
into a concrete machine of experience, form, and spirit. Slowly but surely the hard bumps and knocks, the sprains and
bruises, and the stiff joints are giving way to Coach Monk Younger’s and Coach Tex Tilson’s treatment of rough and
hard work. Scrimmage Friday and Saturday gave the two coaches a good “look-in” on the squad, and all the past
week they have been working to smooth out the wrinkles in the line and oil up the dust.

Reception at Gymnasium

Dr. A. Currie Makes Address in Place of Dr. Martin, Who is Ill

On Monday night, September 15, at 8:00 o'clock, all the members of the class of ‘28, together with members of
the three upper classes of Davidson, gathered at the gymnasium for the annual Freshman reception. At the hour named the
doors were opened and the students surged in where they were met and greeted by members of the faculty and
a few of the townspeople.

After passing the receiving line the Freshmen were greeted at a booth in charge of two of Davidson's beautiful young
ladies, where punch was served. After this delightful drink had been imbibed, another booth came into view, where additional punch,
together with ice cream and cake, was served. Due to the absence and illness of Dr. Martin, the address of
welcome was delivered by Dr. A. Currie, who told the members of '28 a few of the manners and customs
of Davidson which might be puzzling to them. He also explained the eccentricities of the weather at Davidson. This was
the only address given, as Mac Beall, chairman of the Freshman reception committee, explained that it was thought the affair
would be a greater success without many speeches. This was heartily agreed to by all. After Dr. Currie’s address the
Y. M. C. A. showed a moving picture, The Code of The Sea, which everyone enjoyed. When the end was
reached, all departed, some to once more take up their task of studying, others to a less strenuous task of
talking over the affair. Certainly it may be said that this was the most successful reception held by the “Y,”
and one that served its purpose of welcoming and making the Freshmen feel that they are a part of Davidson,
where they are to make their home for the next few years.

Three Brethren Added To Davidson’s Faculty

Dr. Clark, Prof. Zeliff and Captain Daugherty to Strengthen Faculty

Three new men have been added to the Davidson faculty for the coming year: Dr. Clark, Asst. Prof. C. C.
Zeliff, Sergeant J. L. Kirby, and Capt. R. D. Daugherty.

Doctor Clark, a native of Danville, Va., comes to us from Hampden-Sidney College, where he was the professor of modern
languages from 1911 to 1923. From 1905 to 1911 he was the professor of languages and mathematics at Cluster Springs
Academy. He was prepared at three colleges, receiving the A.B. degree at Hampden-Sidney College, A.M. at the University of Virginia,
and Ph.D. at Columbia University. He is the author of one book, “La Laiebible.” (Continued on page 8)

With the exception of the gaps left in the team by the loss of Captain ‘Lias Faison, Mason Fields and
Gig Shepherd, the team will be almost identically the same as last fall. Six other letter men were lost by
either graduation or withdrawal from college, including Warren Cox, Long, Hodgin, Lindamood and Mallory on the line, and Doc DeArmon,
of V. P. I. fame, from the backfield. Eleven letter men returned to the call of Coaches Younger and Tilson,
and with some promising substitutes and practically the entireFresh squad of last year, the material is somewhat better than last
year. This is his second year at Davidson, and the system that he and Tilson are building is slowly giving
evidence of strength. Jim Potts, 200-pound tackle, who went good on the 1922 Davidson Fresh team and again on the
Carolina Fresh team last year, was being counted on to hold the tackle position this year. His failure to pass
re-examinations and consequently his withdrawal from college on account of ineligibility has created no little amount of pessimism in the
crowd of Davidson supporters. Andy Hewlett, flashy quarter for last year’s Yearlings, has withdrawn from college. Hewlett was going good
in practice. The weight of the team this year will be around 160 pounds, the backfield averaging about 155, while
the line from end to end making 165, all being evenly distributed. Coach Monk Younger says, “The heaviest team of
first string men that I can put on the field, barring no accident, cannot exceed 160 pounds per man.”

On the line, Brassy Baker is expected to fill the place left by the graduation of Captain Faison. Baker showed
up well last year in numerous substitutions, winning his letter by that route. Captain Nappy Davis will hold down the
other wing, and his famed ability to snag the ball from the air will mean much to the Davidson offense.
The two tackle positions, held down last autumn by the Summers-Laird-Lindamood triumvirate, will be covered this year by Summers, Lincoln,
and Anderson. Laird has been shifted from center to tackle, though new at this post, he is gradually developing into
an excellent pivot man. Sims, whom sickness kept off the Freshman squad of '24, is the surprise find of the
season. A good, steady passer and dangerous man on the defense, Sims is pushing Laird to the limit. At tackle,
Summers, with his 200-odd pounds of fight and push, is going strong, though held back some by his late arrival.
Lincoln was star tackle on the Fresh team last year, while Anderson showed up in several Varsity games. Vance and
Boggs, stocky-built veterans of last year, are expected to hold down the guard positions. Bob Mitchell, who fought his way
up to a place on the Fresh team last year, is developing form and power every day, and no doubt
will be seen in action Saturday. The Varsity backfield of last year is all back except Gig Shepherd, but a
general shakeup is being engineered by Coach Monk. Hendrix, credited with rather mediocre (Continued on page 3)

Coach Younger is, however, conservative in his estimate of the team’s ability.

Congressman Bulwinkle Is Defense Day Speaker
Military Drill and Speeches by Davidson Men Feature of the Day

A large number of the townsfolk and students united with the Davidson branch of the R.O.T.C. in observing National Defense
Test Day on Friday, September 12. A speaker's stand had been erected on the western side of the campus and
the audience arranged themselves in a semi-circle about it. The members of the R.O.T.C. were assembled in front of the
armory and marched to the stand in a military manner at 3:30 o'clock. One-half hour later, Dr. J. M. McConnell,
chairman of the program committee, opened the ceremonies with a declaration of the purpose of National Defense Test Day. Mr.
Hunt, of Davidson, then offered a short prayer thanking God for the success He has given our country in peace
as well as in war. Mayor Hamilton, of Davidson, proclaimed the day as National Defense Test Day in Davidson and
explained that similar celebrations and assemblies were being held throughout the entire union. In a clear, concise talk, Captain Weems,
professor of military tactics at Davidson, outlined the organization of the reserve forces of the United States. He stated that
there are nine corps areas in the union, Davidson is in the fourth area, with Atlanta, Ga., as headquarters. The
provision for and method of expanding the reserve forces in war times was also shown.

Rev. Dr. McConnell introduced the speaker of the day, Major Bulwinkle, of Gastonia, the national congressman from this district of
North Carolina. Major Bulwinkle’s record overseas in the World War and at home in the House of Representatives was set
forth by Dr. McConnell. The substance of the congressman's speech was as follows: “The present conditions of membership in the
reserve corps should be changed so that each member would be required to attend summer camp at least twice in
every three years. Some of the members have not had any training since the close of the war and yet
still remain in the corps. What the world needs now is the support of the United States in the League
of (Continued on page 5)

Nearly Three Hundred Freshmen Enter Gates of Davidson College
Every Southern State and Several Foreign Countries Represented
MANY TURNED AWAY
Prep and High Schools Furnish Much Good Material for This College

“Nearly three hundred” is the thrilling news that the Davidson enrollment has gone above six hundred, carried to the homes
of thousands of Davidson alumni and friends when the registration books were closed Wednesday night, following two days of excitement
and rush. The exact number that lined up and marched slowly past the treasurer's desk and through the registrar’s door
is fixed at 618. To be sure, this is not the total of those that sought entrances at the “gates
of learning” but were turned away with the hopeless cry of not enough room and not enough equipment. This number
is unknown but it is certain that had there been room, several other figures would have been passed.

Of this number, nearly one-half belong to the incoming Freshman class, exactly 252 being forced to plank down their one
dollar and a quarter for the neat little cap designed by former classes. Out of the 240-odd members of the
class of '27, 160 have returned to form the Sophomore class of the 1924-25 session. The Junior class has 118
members, while the Senior class has 88 enrolled. In the Freshman class, every Southern state is represented as well as
several others of the 48 and four foreign nations—Armenia, Japan, China, and the Philippine Islands. From every indication so far,
outside of the rumors and reports from the high schools, prep schools, and military academies, the (Continued on page 6)

New Hotel is Formally Opened to Public Tonight
Fills Long-Felt Want at Davidson—Will Board Students Also

The informal opening of the new Maxwell Chambers Hotel will take place tonight. Everyone is invited to call during the
evening and inspect the building and equipment of Davidson's newest business enterprise. The hotel is located in the new brick
building on Depot Street, convenient both to the business section of the town and to the railroad station. It has
guest rooms with hot and cold water in each room. Two hundred guests can be accommodated in the large dining
room. Mr. W. L. Cranford, of Black Mountain and Davidson, is the owner, and Mr. Manly L. Wilson, well-known hotel
man of Charlotte, is the manager. Mr. Cranford is well-known to the students, as he was, until recently, postmaster here.
(Continued on page 6)

(Name here) (and address)
A Davidsonian Subscription means all the campus news in the SOUTH’S LIVEST COLLEGE WEEKLY (and $2.50 to T. C. McSwain,
Box 26, Davidson, N.C.)
