8 : THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924

Recent advices from the War Department state that three per cent of the men enrolled in the second year advanced course of the R.O.T.C. of class C institutions are eligible for appointment as second lieutenants in the regular army. These men are to be designated by the professor of Military Science and Tactics. Upon graduation, they may, upon application, be commissioned. In the case of Davidson, only one man will be eligible. Tentative appointment of the candidate from Davidson will be made by Major Hearn within the next week. This man will not be chosen merely because of his grades, but will be chosen because of his all-round ability in all activities.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS OUT TWO DEPUTATIONS

The popular quartet rested for the first weekend in some time. However, it has planned a most active and attractive spring program. Kannapolis and Bethpage are booked for next Sunday. Manager Martin also announces a prospective tour of all the women’s colleges within a limited radius. Chairman White of the “Y” deputation committee has a number of invitations before him. He is considering most favorably those from Winston-Salem, Laurinburg, Spencer, and Hamlet.

Two deputations were fostered by the Ministerial Band during the last weekend. J. A. Guiton represented the band at the First Church, Statesville, where he addressed the various young people’s organizations of that church. J. S. McFall was the band’s delegate to the Caldwell Memorial Church, Charlotte. He reports that his stay at this church was an enjoyable as well as busy one.

Dr. John Vander Meulen Will Speak at “Y” Vesper Service Sunday

The speaker for “Y” vesper service Sunday will be Dr. John M. Vander Meulen, president of the Presbyterian Theological Seminary at Louisville, Ky. Dr. Vander Meulen needs no introduction to Davidson students, particularly the upper-classmen, as he has visited Davidson for the last two years. Last Commencement he delivered the baccalaureate sermon and the year before he conducted the Life Service Campaign.

Three men, students at the Seminary, will accompany him—Messrs. Currie, Taylor, and Caldwell. Two of these are Davidson men, Currie and Taylor. “Buck” Currie, as he was better known, was secretary of the college “Y” last year and during his Senior year was president of the student body. Taylor is a graduate of the class of '22.

They will be here Sunday and Monday, speaking to the “Y” Sunday and at chapel Monday. Dr. Vander Meulen will probably preach Sunday morning. During the time that they are here they will be glad to hold conferences with anyone who desires. On this trip, they are visiting not only Davidson, but also Maryville College and King College. They will arrive sometime Saturday and stay until Monday.

Freshmen Will Debate Twice In Near Future

At the request of the Carolina Debating Council, the intercollegiate debate between the Freshmen of Davidson and the University of North Carolina has been postponed from April 11th to April 15th. The Freshman debate between Carolina and Davidson is the first to be scheduled between the first-year men of the two schools. At the same time that the Davidson-Carolina Fresh debate, a separate team of Freshman debaters from Davidson will be pitted against a similar team from Wake Forest. The Carolina debate will be staged at Davidson, while the Wake Forest contest will be held in Wake Forest. The Freshmen who will represent Davidson in the two contests were chosen in preliminary try-outs several weeks ago, and since that time the members of the two teams have been hard at work under the direction of Professors Brown and Dendy. The members of the team that will oppose Wake Forest are: Erwin, Wharton, and Williams, L., while the team that meets the Carolina debaters will be composed of Stewart, Branch, and Williams, C.

Grayson Satisfies You Save

Grayson Clothes for gentlemen are designed and tailored to suit the discriminating requirements of college men. Never before has such excellent clothing been offered at anything like such low prices! Watch for our showings at your college—or visit our New York headquarters. Everything college men wear—real college men, not the cartoon kind. A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe.

ELABORATE PLANS

(Continued from page 1)

We are looking forward with a great deal of joy towards meeting the Davidson men. The other speakers at the commencement have not been announced yet.variety as pictured in the comic PUBLISHED SHORTLY. The tentative program for the exercises of commencement is as follows:

Students who wish to submit poems for possible inclusion in this year’s College Anthology, The Poets of the Future, Volume VII, are requested to send their contributions not later than May 15th to Dr. Henry T. Schnittkind, care of the Stratford Publishing Company, Boston, Mass. Doctor Schnittkind for a number of years has offered this Anthology of College Poetry as an inducement to college students. The first prize offered is $100. There are also several poems published from among the best, and in addition, those of merit that have no space for publishing have honorary mention in the Paper. W.G. Gallaway, of the local student body, is among the number who received honorable mention in the last volume. There was no volume published last year on account of the sickness of Doctor Schnittkind, and the one for last year and this year will be combined. Many of the old poets sent their first poems before their ability to write was known.

Sunday, June 1
11:00 A.M.—Baccalaureate Sermon.
8:00 P.M.—Annual Sermon before Y.M.C.A.

Monday, June 2
7:30 P.M.—Senior Class Feature.
8:00 P.M.—Dramatic Club Presentation.

Tuesday, June 3
9:30 A.M.—Meeting of the Board of Trustees.
12:15 P.M.—Annual Literary Address. Award of College Medals.
1:30 P.M.—Annual Alumni Luncheon.
5:00 P.M.—Faculty Reception.
8:00 P.M.—Exercises of Literary Societies. Award of Society Diplomas, Trophies, and Medals.
10:30 P.M.—Senior Class Feature.

Wednesday, June 4
10:30 A.M.—SiGe Contest.
Lowering of Class Flag.

LOST AND FOUND
LOST—One Kaywoodie pipe, large bowl, and rough finish. Reward. Hippo Houck, 301 Watts.
LOST—One Library Book, "Nobody's Man," by Oppenheim. Please return to Library or to Hippo Houck, 301 Watts.
LOST—One Education Book, "Introduction to Education." Please return to “Hippo” Houck, 301 Watts.
LOST—Tennyson's Poems and English Loose Leaf Notebook. Please return to Chong Mcllwaine, 14 Georgia.

Mrs. Olin White entertained the West Virginia Club.

Miss Nancy Grey came home Wednesday to spend her spring vacation with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. Grey. The friends of Mrs. Paisley are glad she has recovered from her illness.

CALENDAR
Thursday, March 27—
7:30 p.m.—Eu and Phi Literary Societies.

Friday and Saturday, March 28-29—
7:30 p.m.—Movies: The Hunchback of Notre Dame. Admission, 50 cents.

Sunday, March 30—
10:00 a.m.—Volunteer Band.
1:15 p.m.—C.E. Training Class.
2:00 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
6:00 p.m.—Y.M.C.A. Vesper Service.

Tuesday, April 1—
7:30 p.m.—Pandemic and Metropolitan Literary Societies.

Wednesday, April 2—
7:30 p.m.—Prayer meeting.