THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1924

Here and There | Who Knows?

1895—The opening sermon of the General Assembly will be preached by Rev. Dr. Alexander Sprunt, of Charleston, S.C.

1890—Rev. Dr. B. C. Clark, of Salisbury, has been appointed as commissioner from Concord Presbytery to the General Assembly of
the Presbyterian Church, meeting in San Antonio, Tex., May 15th.

1895—George W. Hall, who is in the furniture manufacturing business at Hickory, N. C., has recently patented a bedstead including
a cedar blanket chest, which is proving very popular and which promises him considerable pecuniary profit.

1895—Dr. S. Frontis, who is practicing dentistry at Mooresville, N. C., is one of the commissioners from Concord Presbytery to
the General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church, convening in San Antonio, Texas, May 15th.

1919—Rev. R. C. Clontz, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Cornelius, was appointed commissioner to the General Assembly from Mecklenburg
Presbytery.

1922—Wilson Moore has accepted work for the summer as supply of Shearer, Sherrill’s Ford, and Hobson Churches.

1922—John Parks has accepted work as summer supply pastor in the south mountains of Burke County.

1923—Mr. W. P. Brown, now teaching in the English department of Georgia Tech, will enter Union Theological Seminary in September.

HELP US to make The Davidsonian more attractive. Any News?

That the first publication of the students appeared in March, 1870, and was named the Davidson Monthly. That this lasted
for two years and at its death the members of the Eumenean Society taxed themselves a dollar each to help
pay off the debt.

That Prof. W. J. Martin was coach of the Rugby Football Association in 1890, and that this association played games
on Thanksgiving Day until 1898-99, when the first intercollegiate games were allowed.

Many Alumni Visit Hill During Easter Holidays

The following alumni were among the visitors on the hill during Junior Speaking:

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
F. J. Wright, Winston-Salem, N. C.
W. S. Shepherd, ’24, Winston-Salem, N. C.
C. H. Cornelson, Clinton, S. C.
R. C. Brake, '23, Rocky Mount, N. C.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Cicero Gaither, ‘21, Newton, N.C.
Norman McKellar, ’20, Rowland, N. C.
R. U. Woods, '23, Raleigh, N. C.

That one of these first games was with the University of North Carolina and the score was 11-0 in favor
of the University. That another of these early games was with Georgia Tech, the score being 38-6 in Davidson’s favor.

That the first fraternity on the hill was a sub rosa chapter of the Chi Phi Fraternity, and that in
March, 1892, 25 percent of the student body were in fraternities.

That the foundation and pillar stones in the Old Chambers Building were quarried at Mt. Mourne, at Lover’s Leap on
the Concord Road, and the Rocky River community.

That one night a student climbed to the comb of the south wing of Chambers, tied a wire to the
bell, passed it over the roof and fastened it to a limb of a tree. The wire could not be
seen and the bell rang all night.

That immediately after the Civil War there was a branch of the Ku Klux Klan in Davidson, made up of
students and the clerks in the village stores.

That for a long while there were a large number of vacant rooms in Chambers and that the students would
place a light in these rooms. When the faculty inspector knocked to see if the student was studying, and received
no answer, he would naturally open the door and enter. A carefully balanced bucket of water would be his welcome.

FOR SPRING
Suits of Quality & Distinction
A wide range of fabrics and shades to select from—something to please every taste.
By Michaels-Stern and Kuppenheimer

You'll Need New Ties—Spring is profuse with its colorful Ties. Charming effects in most pleasing patterns: A wonderful array of
shirts. Newest Spring Headwear.

KELLY CLOTHING CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Parlor of West
FRIDAY, MARCH 28th

John Ballard, '25, Greensboro, N. C.
Gordon Scott, ’19, Statesville, N. C.
H. O. Covington, Jr., ’23, Laurinburg, N. C.
Richard Wharton, '25, Greensboro, N. C.

Kappa Alpha
Jake Taylor, '16, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Pete Mitchell, ex-’25, Washington and Lee.
G. B. Sorrells, ’23, Raleigh, N. C.
Mack Sinclair, ’26, Charlotte.

Kappa Sigma
Geo. Miley, '21, Winston-Salem, N. C.
J. C. McMaster, '23, Winston-Salem, N. C.
D. R. Lafar, Jr., ’22, Gastonia, N. C.
Knox Johnson, ex-'26, Mocksville, N.C.
John Schenck, ’22, Charlotte, N. C.

The Civic League gave an Easter Egg Hunt.

W. I. Martin, Jr., ’23, Davidson, N. C.

Phi Gamma Delta
D. L. Mahood, '22, Baltimore, Md.
W. M. Miley, ‘21, Cooleemee, N. C.
L. C. McAskill, Raleigh, N. C.
R. D. Hall, Belmont, N. C.
F. P. Hall, Belmont, N. C.
R. V. Liles, ex-’25,Lilesville, N. C. G. W. Mauze, ’23, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.

Beta Theta Pi
John Roddy, ’23, Rock Hill, S. C.
George Irvin, ’24, Reidsville, N. C.
Frank Hill, ’20, Statesville, N. C.
Frank Barron, ex-’26, Rock Hill, S. C.
J. A. Beaver, ’24, Salisbury, N. C.
Carroll Overton, ’24, Salisbury, N. C.

Delta Theta Chi
S. Reed Sloan, ’23, Salisbury, N. C.

Phi Alpha Pi (After May 2nd Theta Upsilon Omega)
C. F. Wildman, ’23, Stovall, N. C.
R. G. White, ex-’25, Pensacola, Fla.
A. S. Anderson, ex-'26, Cramerton, N. C.

Other Alumni on the Hill
T. Henry Paterson, Union Seminary.
Walter L. Lingle, ’92, General Assembly’s Training School, Richmond, Va.
Karl H. Long, Winston-Salem, N. C.

CROWDS IN ARENA
(Continued from page 1)

The rabid crowd was satiated by “The Tragedy of Whilom Days.” In this play Tonsilitis, an Athenian by the name
of D. H. Stewart, arrayed himself against Carthaginian incognito, one L. L. Deck.

Saw duo in “Veni, Vidi, Vici”
The Earnest brothers again came out and pounded the tempered saws for more music. A pair of Nubian slaves, Fresh
Alexander and Branch, followed with a merry battle of wit. The Moo Cow Quartet appeared in the approved Roman evening
dress. Their selections were in harmony with the costumes. The lullabies lulled the assemblage to pleasant dreams, from which Elkins
and his guitar recalled them. The plebes' verdict to these performances was “Thumbs Up” and the performers were spared.

“A Sophoclean Drama,” presented by Bob Walker, J. H. Hall, and M. L. Carrol was preceded by a wrestling match
between Patterson and Lindamood. The evening ended with Caesar’s own queen, Cleopatra, dancing “The Dance of the Seven Veils.” The
Emperor himself was carried away by the beauty of her movements and called for his renowned fiddle. His performance capped
the evening frolic. Through the whole affair, the audience, if they found any part unpleasing, were enabled by Al Lake
and his cohorts to pass the time in consuming the lavish refreshments. “Fun while you eat” proved the crowning detail.

TRINITY TRIMS DAVIDSON
(Continued from page 1)

W. F. Craven argued that France was violating the rules of morality and good citizenship and was thus sowing the
seeds of a future world war. He argued that France had the wrong attitude toward Germany, as shown in the
occupation itself. D. B. Walthall, of Davidson, showed that the results of the French occupation justified the action itself. France
had attained her just ends; Germany had come to the point where she was willing to make efforts to pay
reparations, which she had before refused to do in any adequate degree; and no evil lasting results were to follow
the occupation. J. T. Lanning closed the debate with the argument that France was not getting what she had gone
into the Ruhr to get and that her action was to be condemned on the grounds of economic advisability as
well as on the grounds of moral right.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?”
This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines
the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently
worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

Hunt for the small children of the town last Saturday afternoon. They had a rummage sale during the morning to
meet the expenses. Mrs. C. J. Hearn and small children returned with her mother to Charleston, S.C. They will spend
a few days visiting her.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchanging in good faith merchandise or merchandise
and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located.
The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490
