THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

'17—Rev. C. R. Jenkins, of Charleston, S.C., has been preaching during the last few months in the mountains of North Carolina.

'80—Dr. Beattie Jennings, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa., was a delegate to the meeting of the Federal Committee, at Atlanta, Ga.

NOTES

'24—J. B. Hunter was at home for Thanksgiving.

'24—Reginald Price, former business manager of the Davidsonian, is now a student at Cornell.

MARRIAGES

Peden-Bryant

In a ceremony of distinct beauty, charm, and simplicity, Miss Ernestine Nuttall Bryant, of Charlotte, and Dr. Jack Peden, of Tulsa, Okla., were wedded last evening at 8:00 o'clock, at the executive mansion in Raleigh, the bride being a niece of Gov. Cameron Morrison. Bishop Joseph Blount Cheshire officiated. Dr. and Mrs. Peden left for a few days’ trip to New York, after which they will go to Hot Springs, Va., for a month’s stay. Mrs. Peden is the only daughter of the late Ernest B. Nuttall, of Rockingham, now of Charlotte. She was educated at Queens College and is an exceptionally clever and talented young woman.

'98—Mr. C. T. Carr, Superintendent of Young People’s Work in North Carolina, completed a session at Dr. B. R. Lacy’s church, in Atlanta, Ga.

The following alumni were on the Hill last weekend: Willie P. Nesbit, '20; J. R. Maxwell, '25, now principal of the high school at Washington, N.C.; Dan Mallery, ex-'24; Bob Stowe, '24; Davidson Hall, '19; Archie Keels, '24; Gig Shepherd, '24.

'15—J. E. Faw, of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company, formerly stationed in Atlanta, Ga., is now in New York City.

'24—A. M. McBryde and E. S. Faison are at the University of Pennsylvania, studying medicine.

'18—Shelby T. McCly, after completing his three years as a Rhodes Scholar, is now Y.M.C.A. Secretary at Roberts College, Constantinople. He writes: “The oriental atmosphere is quite fascinating. About 640 boys and 20 nationalities are represented.”

'11—Dr. Lester Morris is professor of surgery at the University of Georgia. He is the son of Rev. S. L. Morris, executive secretary of Home Missions of the Presbyterian Church.

'18—Rev. W. C. Frierson is pastor at Blacky, Ky., where the Stewart Robinson School, the second largest Presbyterian school in the General Assembly, is located. His address is Room 618, 195.

DEATHS

Rev. John Abner Harris died in his home in Green Mountain, N.C., November 8th, following a brief illness. He was a graduate of Davidson College, in the class of 1888. He was born in Iredell County, N.C., October 16, 1862.

Dr. J. H. Morrison, '75, and Rev. J. A. Harris, '88, died during November. We have...

Ex-'25—H. M. Moss, who is in business in Atlanta, Ga., paid the campus a visit last week. Mr. Moss is planning to re-enter college next fall.

'24—R. E. Blue recently accepted a position with the Charlotte National Bank.

Rev. C. L. Klontz, for seven or eight years pastor of the Cornelius and Bethel churches, recently resigned and has accepted work as secretary of Home Missions of Wilmington Presbytery.

GREEK MYTHOLOGIES

Grecian mythologies were next presented. Pygmalion Up To Date depicted the wooing of a wax figure of a man by young ladies who let loose their most alluring wiles in order to attract his attention. Miss Justus as Pygmalion acted the part of the immobile wax figure to perfection, her male attire being faultless and complete. The freshy, the power-puff girl, the booky girl, the flapper girl, and the summer girl all sung their love songs to the object of their admiration, but in vain. Finally, the ‘Converse girl,’ represented by Miss Helen Richardson, broke down the bars of restraint, and the scene ended with the embrace of the Converse girl by Pygmalion. The ensemble sang Dirte and the Converse alma mater song in a grand and glorious finale under the able leadership of Mrs. Coral Baker, a well-known Charlotte director; and is said to be in well-nigh perfect condition. Three performances, at Mooresville, Lenoir, Broadway.

GLEE CLUB APPEARS HERE

(Continued from page 1)

COMMERCIAL

“BOYS!”

When in Statesville why not make headquarters at

WALTER CULBRETH CO.
VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE
STATESVILLE, N.C.
PHONE 157

“She Notices the Cut”

That's why you should patronize the

Barber Shop
NEXT DOOR TO POSTAL TELEGRAPH HEADQUARTERS!!

FOR FINE AND MEDIUM FURNITURE at Reasonable Prices

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
STATESVILLE, N.C.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?

The Shelby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N.C.I have traveled extensively in this country and in Europe and is charming and vivacious and one of Charlotte’s most popular members of society. Dr. Peden is the only child of Mr. and Mrs. A. S. Peden, of Fountain Inn, S. C. He was graduated from Davidson College, class of 1910, and from the University of Pennsylvania, and for the past three years has been one of the most successful young doctors in the state of Oklahoma. He was overseas with a hospital unit during the World War and is lieutenant commander in the reserve corps. Dr. Peden is a young man of strong personality and is one of the most popular young men in Tulsa. He is held in highest regard by countless friends in the Carolinas. After the first of the year, Dr. and Mrs. Peden will be at home in Tulsa, Okla.

McKay-Mountcastle
On the 20th of last month, Mr. Woodrow McKay, ‘15, was married to Miss Frances Holt Mountcastle, of Lexington, one of the state’s most beautiful young girls. McKay at one time had two brothers at Davidson. Mr. McKay is a brother of Mrs. Robert Glasgow, of Charlotte, and was formerly one of Charlotte's most prominent young men. He is manager of the Ford agency in Lexington and surrounding territory. Mr. and Mrs. McKay are guests of Mr. Henry Ford, at Wayside Inn, Sudbury, Mass.

Williams-Chitwood
Mr. and Mrs. Hampton Thomas Chitwood announce the marriage of their daughter, Lois, to Rev. James Mack Williams, on Sunday, the 12th day of October, 1924.

THE CONVERSE GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)
The most enjoyable that has appeared on a local stage in recent years. The program was divided into four parts, the grand finale ending with the singing of Dixie and the Converse alma mater song. The glee club ensemble appeared on the stage at the drawing of the first curtain, and three numbers were rendered. Also, two beautiful solos were sung with great tenderness and expression by Misses Justus and Richardson. The last two numbers were especially well received, "To a Wild Rose" and "De Gospel Train." "Dormitory Chop Suey" was the title of the second part, and it was given in a delightfully informal manner, the girls sitting in semi-circles around the stage and taking part in the chorus. Petite Peggy Thompson, the 12-year-old violinist who accompanied the glee club, rendered two wonderfully executed solos, and also played the obligato parts to the songs and choruses. A sextet sang several plantation melodies which displayed to the fullest extent the splendid harmonious voices comprising it. As an encore, they sang "O Davidson." The mandolin club was perhaps the most enjoyable feature of the performance. Eight young ladies gave a brilliant program of pieces on their instruments, and the piano accompaniment provided a rhythm that fairly resounded throughout the hall. When "Let Me Call You Sweetheart" was reached, the whole audience uttered low utterances of delight and contentment. Encore after encore was called. A burlesque on one of the characters of the club started their way almost immediately back to Spartanburg in big touring cars. Even though they were loath to go, the powers that be decreed that the Davidson campus should not see the bevy of beauties for another 24 hours. The program for Tuesday evening will include a large list of popular choruses, a number of classical and popular solos, a variety of novelty orchestrations by the seven-piece jazz orchestra, and several offerings by the big symphony. Tickets will go on sale in a few days, and all students are urged to avail themselves of the opportunity of hearing the club before it leaves on its extensive tour through the Carolinas and Georgia. Miss Clara Bancroft was the capable director of the club, and the entire membership reflected her thorough training. Almost every seat in the house was taken, and the Quips and Cranks, under whose auspices the performance was given, realized a neat sum from the proceeds.

The personnel of the club was as follows: I. Anderson, B. Blanton, K. Blue, E. Daugas, L. Graham, R. Lawrence, I. Mattison, K. Moody, A. M. Stewart, C. Roberts.

Miss Lois Barnette is at home, ill with diphtheria.

WARREN’S of Philadelphia
TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN
Special Top Coats $25.00
Made To Order Suits $35.00
SHOWING 103 WEST
Monday, December 8th
JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.
Formerly of Guilford’s

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department Charlotte, N. C.
McAlister Carson, Manager
Phone 3940