THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

Mrs. Newell and two young sons are visiting at the home of her mother, Mrs. W. O. Sample. Misses Martha and Sara Hamilton were at home for Thanksgiving.

Begin the New Year Right
Board at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel
Make Reservations Now
$24 Per Month
J. D. LAWS, 204 Watts

Oden thinks the Board of Control is a pine shingle. “That must apply to airplanes only,”

The Blue Front Store
Feeds Fancy Groceries
H. M. JOHNSTON
PHONE 20

WRIGLEYS
Chew it after every meal
It stimulates appetite and aids digestion.
It makes your food do you more good.
Note how it relieves that stuffy feeling after hearty eating.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Moore’s Bicycle Shop
is the place to buy your
Shells
Basket Ball Goods
Athletic Equipment
Guns
Complete Line Columbia Bicycles
D & M Sweaters (best made)

said Fresh Al Burgess as he gazed upon the sign in Charlotte, “Do not park above this sign.”

For the benefit of the boys having late dates, the school should require four or five more wildcats.

Fair Visitor—“I did not know Moffett could play any musical instrument.”
Stude—“He can’t.”
Fr. V.—“Then what is he doing in the Ministerial Band?”
Tom Baker—The answer to a maiden’s prayer.

“What ho, Perambulocus, and for what hast thou the salt shaker?”
“Aye, Mesticum, verily and I have a date with an ex-jail bird.”

Him—“Darling, I'm going to marry you,”
Her—“Have you seen Ma?”
Him—“Yes, but she’s too old.”

She—“What a pity it is that handsome men are always conceited.”
Cuba McCallum—“Not always, little girl. I’m not.”

Hiram—“How’s your new hired man? Is he steady?”
Si—“Yep, so far he has been durned near motionless.”

Hostess—“Mister Summers, do have some more coffee.”
Sam—“Well, if you insist, but only a swallow.”
Hostess—“Marie, fill up Mr. Summers’ cup.”

Said one of our professors: “That Freshman will be a great wit some day—he’s a half-wit already.”

She—“Who is that bird wearing a black robe? Is he a chimney sweep?”
“Naw, he’s a Ku Kluxer from Pittsburgh.”

Fresh—“Yes, I have eyes just like my father.”
Hebe McI—“Uh huh, popeyed.”

A young man walked down the street, one shoe off, his coat half way off.
“What’s the idea,” a friend asked.
“Well, you see, I’m taking a course in correspondence school and yesterday those darn sophomores wrote me and told me to haze myself.”

He—“My brain is my fortune.”
She—“Well, poverty is no disgrace.”

There was a young hick named Jauve,
Who wore socks of yellow and mauve;
While out with Miss Golde,
Took a heck of a cold—
From now on he'll stick to the stove.

There was a bird from Mt. Mourne
Who lots of horsing had borne.
He got mad one day
And ran clear away—
Now his girl looks mighty forlorn.

Albright is so dumb he thinks an electric iron is a magnet used in a power plant.

Mrs. Perkins—“Pat, I honestly believe you enjoy the radio better’n you do the party telephone.”

A new policeman, an undersized fellow, was hailed by a street car conductor.
“That guy,” said the conductor, pointing to a surly individual about seven feet tall and four feet across the shoulders, “won’t pay his fare.”
“Won’t he?” asked the new cop, after a glance at the man. Then he put his hand in his pocket. “Well, then, I guess I’ll have to pay it for him.”

Joe McC.—“Did you notice the mute appeal in that beautiful girl’s eyes?”
Tom—“Yes; she’s a dumb belle, all right.”

Prof.—“What is that making that gurgling sound?”
Nappy Davis—“I’m trying to swallow that line you are handing me, sir.”

She—“I understand you played football at college.”
Jim Appleboy—“Yes, I was half back on the team, and studies.”

E—“I didn’t need a bit of coal last winter.”
Wic—“How did you keep your house warm?”
Ex—“Had a blanket mortgage on it.”

Famous Cellars Wine
Brought to Lord Helper’s domain.
Carried off by a Freshman.
Relieved of burden and thrown behind.trunk. Wrapped around a big drink of water and thrown out of third-floor window. There was once a young fellow named Batte, Who smilingly took off his hatte ————, 

History of a Laundry Paper 

Wrapped around a bundle of old rags. 

Carolina and Georgia to be Visited by Glee Club
Gastonia, Spartanburg, Rome, Atlanta, Greenville, and Charlotte Included in Itinerary

The Davidson College Glee Club, 30-odd strong, departs next Wednesday on its annual fall tour through the Carolinas and Georgia, and will appear in practically all of the larger cities along their route. The tour will be very similar to that taken by the club last year, with the addition of several extra cities.

The first stop, according to the club's schedule, will be in Gastonia, where they will appear under the auspices of the Gastonia High School. From Gastonia, the club will journey to Spartanburg, where they will play on Thursday evening. Following the Spartanburg performance, the club will move on to Rome, Ga., and will appear at Shorter College on Friday evening. The week's schedule will end with the appearance at Agnes Scott, in Atlanta, on Saturday evening. The club will remain in Atlanta over the weekend as guests of alumni. Early Monday morning, the club will embark on its return trip and will show in Greenville on Monday evening. The tour will terminate in Charlotte Tuesday evening, when the club plays its final engagement under the auspices of the Charlotte High School.

Besides a chorus of 30 members, the club includes in its personnel a novelty jazz orchestra of seven pieces, a well-trained symphony of 10 pieces, and the Kiser Brothers, who entertain with their black-faced impersonations. Mrs. Coral Baker, Charlotte, who has directed the activities of the club for the past two years, has been hard at work; and reports from the various weekend trips made by the club this year indicate that its work will end in a big success. Regular rehearsals have been held during the past two months, and under careful direction and intensive training, the club has rounded itself into a remarkable organization—one that will undoubtedly be among the most complete collegiate musical organizations of its kind in the southland.

A.M. Martin, a member of the club for the past several years, is its president this year. J. F. Milhous is managing the business end of the tour, being assisted by Earl Branch, Jr. as advance manager. The personnel of the club includes Lockhart, Martin, Hudson, Crayton, Gray, Singletary, McRae, McClain, Douglass, Howard, Hamilton, Russell, Earnest, J. Westbrook, Davis, Johnson, Lowrance, Foster, Earnest, B. L., McConnell, Fitts, Currie, Wilson, D. G., Wilson, W. T., Cravy, and Barr.

To every young lass
That he happened to pass—
Till one day a queen snubbed him flatte.

D—cck. U—All, M—..€. Davis. B—oger Bost. B—uford Webb. Earnhardt. L—ong. L—incoln. S—ummers. A—lexander. L—ittlejohn. L—ingle.

A dumb old bird was Freshman Shaw;
When he saw a Soph fall he said, “He haw!”
But now he’s not as dumb as that
For he wears a cute little yellow hat.

Stud Trawick will now disfavor us with his aesthetic little war-song entitled, “I call my girlie ‘hinges,’ because she’s something to adore.”

There was a Junior who was so thin,
He wouldn’t go out alone
For fear some great big hungry dawg
Might take him for a bone.

One day while he was walking out,
And got all out of breath,
He fell through a hole in the pants
And choked himself to death.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company.
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman's and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY