THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

The Reel Stuff.

“In Search of a Thrill” Gives Metro Star Great Role as Paris Butterfly

Viola Dana in her zippiest melodramatic comedy, “In Search of a Thrill,” a Metro production, is the treat in store at the gym Monday night, April 21st. Adapted from Kate Jordan’s short story, “The Spirit of the Road,” and directed by Oscar Apfel, “In Search of a Thrill” promises to top in popularity all Miss Dana’s previous productions, for it is a rare combination of comedy and thrills, done with the charming verve and dash that is characteristic of the Peter Pan girl of the screen. Warner Baxter, Mabel Van Buren, Temple Jar Saxe, and Rosemary Theby head the supporting cast.

Miss Dana has the role of an American flapper in Paris, whose passion for continuous excitement leads her into breath-taking adventures. Fans will get all the action they want in “In Search of a Thrill,” for the story speeds from one adventure to another, culminating in a dramatic episode at a rendezvous of the Paris underworld.

Ann Clemance, played by Viola Dana, occupies a villa near Paris with her aunt. In the French metropolis, she meets Adrien Torrens (Warner Baxter), a young American author, to whom she was formerly engaged. They are attracted to each other again, but Adrian, a serious-minded chap, has no patience with Ann’s reckless frivolities. Feeling that she has lost his respect, and knowing his interest in the poorer unfortunate classes, Ann disguises herself as a crook and breaks into his apartment, hoping to win his sympathy. Instead of freeing her, Adrian compels her to accompany him on a tour of the slum district, where she realizes for the first time the horrible conditions brought about by the indifferent attitude of a few of the wealthy aristocracy.

In a Montmartre dive, Ann is recognized through her disguise by a leading gangster, who was a witness of one of her earlier escapades. This thug plots with his Apache cohorts to kidnap the girl and hold her for ransom. What follows is one of the most thrilling battles royal ever screened—that will make “In Search of a Thrill” a photoplay long to be remembered.

Members of Next Year’s Control Board Chosen

Patton, Regen, and Miller Selected on Directing Board of Y. M. C. A. During Year

The Y. M. C. A. elections held during last week resulted in the election of Jim Patton from the rising Senior class to affiliate with “Mac” Beall and “Bob” Oeland, his classmates, who are already members of the Court of Control. From the rising Junior class were chosen W. E. Miller and E. K. Regen. These two men will hold office for two years. The personnel of the board includes Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. F. K. Fleagle, and Mr. F. L. Jackson as faculty members who sit with the board as honorary members and advisers. Each of them holds office for three years. Mr. Jackson will probably be returned, as the board, in placing his name before the student body, has requested his re-election.

This body has the responsibility of employing the general secretary and controlling the funds of the “Y.” They meet once a month on the first Monday night of each month. Richard Littlejohn has been appointed to direct the moving pictures next year, filling the place now held by Watt McCain. His assistants are H. C. Lawson and Nesbit Sullivan. Bub Oeland has made an exceptionally good showing as treasurer of the board. His colleagues were Mason Field, Lee McLean, Angus McBryde, and Mac Beall. The work of the “Y” is in good hands for another year.

Out in the great progressive west, several universities are installing courses in yelling with carefully mapped out courses. Only Sophomores are eligible for registration which is a deft compliment to this particular college breed. Some of the courses are labeled as follows: Bleacher Psychology, Bleacher Singing, Correct Use of the Voice, What a Coach Expects of the Cheerleaders.—Tar Heel.

DAVIDSON COLLEGE GLEE CLUB

Which will put on a performance Friday night in collaboration with the Dramatic Club

Seniors Make Plans

Annual Georgia Club Banquet Held Monday

Georgia Crackers Celebrate With Big Blowout Last Wednesday Night

Last Monday night 24 members of the Georgia Club met for a banquet at Thompson’s boarding house. Chester F. Monk acted as toastmaster. After the banquet, Piggy Martin, Kenneth McAlpine, Linton Deck, Hayden Hollingsworth, and others made short after-dinner speeches. Ernest Milton told of the activities of the Georgia men at Davidson during the past year, and the aims for next year. Some of the highest offices in the college have been held by Georgia men during this year. These included president of the Student Body, president of the Y. M. C. A., president of the Glee and Dramatic Clubs, editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian, editor-in-chief of the Magazine, secretary of the Athletic Association, and three members of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet. Bill Heston, a man from Georgia, was elected editor-in-chief of Quips and Cranks, but on account of ill health was forced to resign. Three members of the club found places on the honor roll last semester, and one has especially distinguished himself in wrestling, Cromartie having reached the final tryouts in the eliminations for the American Olympic Wrestling team. Other Georgians have proven good athletes.

In the absence of President Elkins, the toastmaster presided over the business of the meeting. In the election of officers for next year, Kenneth McAlpine was chosen president, Flake Laird, vice-president, and Sam Doss, secretary-treasurer.

Mike (in bed, to alarm clock)—“I fooled yez that time. I was not asleep at all."—Davenport Weekly Record.

CALENDAR

Wednesday, April 16
7:30 p.m.—Movies, Harold Lloyd in Why Worry.

Thursday, April 17
8:00 p.m.—Junior Oratorical Contest.

Friday, April 18
3:30 p.m.—Baseball, Shelby High.
8:00 p.m.—Formal Night. Dramatic and Glee Club performances.

Saturday, April 19
10 a.m.—Interclass Track Meet.
3:30 p.m.—Baseball, Shelby High.m.—Baseball, D. C. Fresh vs. Charlotte High. 8:00 p.m.—Roman Circus.

Sunday, April 20
11 a.m.—Church (Special music).
1:15 p.m.—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
6:00 p.m.—Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service.

Monday, April 21
7:30 p.m.—Movies, Viola Dana in "In Search of a Thrill."

Tuesday, April 22
7:30 p.m.—Pan. and Metro. Literary Societies.

Wednesday, April 23
9:30 p.m.—Bible Classes. Fresh vs. Soph.

Celebration of Class Day During Commencement
W. M. Cox is Valedictorian, P. J. Story, Salutatorian, and W. Z. Bradford, Respondent

GATEWAY CLASS GIFT
R. R. Jones, President of Class, Will Present Gift at Commencement

The Senior class is planning big things for the celebration of Class Day. At a recent meeting of the class, the following elections were made: W. M. Cox, Valedictorian; Paul Story, Salutatorian; D. B. Walthall, Orator; and W. Z. Bradford, Respondent at the Alumni Banquet. Also, D. J. Chipman was recently elected Alumni Secretary.

It has been the custom for several years for the Senior class to give the college a gift. The class of '24 has in mind a beautiful approach and gateway, which will lead to the campus from the Davidson College Highway. Mr. Hibbs, of Nashville, the architect for New Chambers, is now working on plans for the same. It will harmonize with our Chambers, as well as the roads and walks, which the college is anticipating. R. R. Jones, the class president, was chosen to formally present the class gift.

The Seniors are working hard for commencement, and they are spreading the report that Davidson may expect the biggest exercises she has ever witnessed.

Senior—“Freshman, where is your Fresh cap?”
Freshman—“I have it in my hand, do you want it?”—Yellow Jacket Weekly.

Davidson Professors and Students Speak Before Sharon Chautauqua
Piggy Martin’s Quartet Furnishes Music for Occasion — Doctors Martin, Shewmake, and Fleagle and Warren Cox Deliver Speeches

The annual chautauqua of Sharon township was concluded last Saturday night after a week which, despite the bad weather, was pronounced very worthwhile both in point of view of program presented and in attendance. On Saturday, Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Prof. Fred Fleagle, and W. M. Cox addressed the chautauqua. The Davidson Ministerial Band Quartet sang several selections and later led in the congregational singing.

Dr. Shewmake spoke on the inspiration of culture and character, showing their relation to Christian education. “Culture,” he said, “has been defined as civilization; refinement of manners, dress, etc., smattering of refinement, inefficiency. But the definition he preferred was that culture is a study of perfection, a harmonious expansion.”

Professor Fleagle showed the transition of schools from emphasizing religious teachings to the modern tendency to leave such instruction out of school life. The abandonment of the family altar was deplored, the speaker saying that a strong nation cannot exist without strong communities, which rest upon strong Christian homes. “Christian education has been largely turned over to the homes,” he said.

W. M. Cox, who is to become a mission teacher in a Chinese college, contrasted the Christian influences of the state institution and the denominational college, saying the chief aim of the former is to impart knowledge and that of the latter is to develop personality. “The differences of the types of schools,” he said, “is their ideals, purpose, teaching force, and atmosphere of Christian influence.”

MINISTERIAL BAND ELECTS MOFFETT NEW PRESIDENT

Instead of the usual program, the Ministerial Band, at its regular meeting last Sunday afternoon, elected officers to serve the remainder of this term and the first part of the fall term. The men elected were: A. N. Moffett, president; A. H. Hollingsworth, vice-president; G. P. Gladney, secretary; and P. B. Freeland, treasurer. The installation of these officers will be held at the regular meeting of the Band on April 27th.

During the devotional part of the meeting preceding the election of officers, two members of the Band made short talks. J. L. McLean, the retiring president, gave an instructive talk on Rational Faith, and A. N. Moffett spoke on Being True to Your Calling.

Next Sunday morning, the Ministerial and Volunteer Band together with the Christian Endeavor Training Class, will conduct an Easter Sunrise Service. This meeting will take the place of the regular afternoon meeting.

Chewing Gum Aids Digestion
By C. Houston Goudiss
National Authority on Nutrition
Publisher of The Forecast—America’s Leading Food Magazine

Everyone knows we are given to eating more than we actually need, but when the table is heaped with good food, “what's a feller to do?” The dishes are so tempting, and so palatable! Why not enjoy them?

But many a hearty meal which is hugely enjoyed is far from enjoyable during the process of digestion. Then it is that chewing gum comes to the rescue. Dr. W. A. Evans, former commissioner of health in Chicago, says in his book, “How to Keep Well”: “To chew gum after a meal aids digestion. Most people do not chew their food long enough to mix saliva with it thoroughly. The chewing of gum adds some saliva to the stomach contents. It is of more service in stimulating the stomach muscle. It is especially serviceable in helping the stomach to empty its contents. If one has overeaten and the stomach is heavy, something is gained by chewing gum for half an hour, beginning two hours after eating.” And it also helps to keep the teeth clean.

Chicle, the base of chewing gum, is the milky juice which is secreted by the inner bark of a tropical tree known as the Achras Sapota. Only during the rainy season are the trees “bled.” After being refined and sterilized, the chicle is mixed with sugar and flavoring and moulded into the familiar form which has become so popular.

“What a whale of a difference just a few cents make! —all the difference between just an ordinary cigarette and—FATIMA, the most skillful blend in cigarette history.”