8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1924

DOCTOR KING DISCUSSES CHRIST AS PERSONALITY

Dr. Robert King preached at the morning church service last Sunday. Doctor King chose as his text for his sermon a portion of the fifth verse of the ninth chapter of Acts: “Who Art Thou, Lord?” This is the question that Paul asked when he was on his way to Damascus. Rev. Mr. King pointed out that Christ is still the suffering Lord that He was when here on earth. The fact that Jesus is a God-man was clearly brought out by the statement that if He is not a God-man then He was the biggest liar and the most profane blasphemer the world has ever known, because He was continually reminding the people of His peculiar relation to God the Father. “John tells us that in the beginning was the word. Therefore Jesus is God from eternity to eternity.”

In a striking story Dr. King pointed out how we should be at rest since God has His hand on the wheel. He urged us to prepare our hearts “for God to take hold of the wheel and control our lives. “Then, too, the creative power of God should be all the evidence of God's almighty power that a thinking man could want. At His word hundreds of planets were formed. At His word all creatures were formed and into them He breathed the breath of life. How can so small a thing as a man’s mind compete with the greatness of God?"

“And lastly, Christ’s promise shows that He has an interest in human beings. It shows that He lived here on earth among the suffering humanity, learned to know their troubles, and learned to bear their burdens. Then He promised to go with us and be with us always, even unto the end. “Surely then the essence of true Christianity is to know Jesus Christ our Lord, because if we know Him aright we cannot help but live Him in our daily lives.”

The Civic League was favored at its meeting Saturday afternoon with a reading by Miss McDonald, who has just recently completed a course in Home Hygiene, given under the auspices of the Red Cross.

— Mah-Jong — Is Taking the Country By Storm

A complete set in bright colors, 144 tiles, 116 counters, 8 racks, 2 dice, book of rules and instructions; anyone can learn the game in ten minutes. It’s very fascinating. All in attractive box, sent prepaid on receipt of $1.00 (Canada 25c extra).

Table Covers

Very Attractive Black Sateen Mah-Jong Table Cover with colored dragon designs, adjustable to any size card table; 16 counter pockets, striking colored stitched edges. Extraordinary value. Special price.

COMBINATION OFFER: We will send prepaid one complete Mah-Jong set and table cover as described above on receipt of $2.50.

CHINA-AMERICAN IMPORTING CO. 111 West 68th St. New York

THE UNITED STATES PATENT OFFICE AS A FIELD FOR LIFE WORK

The Constitution of the United States provides for granting patents and as early as 1790 Congress enacted legislation for the grant of patents for inventions. The United States Patent Office as such was established in 1836 and was included in the Department of the Interior when that department was established in 1849.

A patent is granted an inventor to give him exclusive rights in the invention he discloses in his application. It is essential, therefore, that disclosure be sufficient to instruct fully in the performance of the invention. For a great many years college graduates have gone into the Patent Office as examiners. Their function is to examine applications for patents to see what the alleged inventor thinks he has produced that is new and to see that the disclosure is complete. They then investigate the prior art as represented in patents already granted by the United States and various foreign countries and by the descriptions in technical literature. The invention claimed by the applicant to be new is compared with what is found to be old and a patent is finally allowed by the examiner if the application in fact claims a new invention.

A good examiner should have enough curiosity to make him want to know the patents and prior publications relating to the particular devices he examines and also those in related subjects in other divisions of the Patent Office. He should have enough memory to be able to remember where to find a description he has seen and enough interest in procedure to enable him to acquire a knowledge of principles and decisions in patent law and a ready wit in applying them to the case in hand.

It will be readily seen that the work is extremely interesting. All sorts of things come to the United States Patent Office from the simple darning needle to the complicated steam engine or printing press; from the simple electromagnet to the most complicated system of automatic telephony or wireless transmission of intelligence; from electro-chemical or metallurgical processes to the refining of petroleum or the production of dyes or other chemicals from coal tar.

The positions in the examining corps of the Patent Office are filled initially from a list made up of those who pass a technical civil service examination, and promotions within the office are made on a strictly merit system. The entrance salary has been fixed by Congress at $1,860, beginning with the 1st of July, 1924, and increases of salary are provided for by promotion from time to time up to $5,000 a year. The positions are under the civil service and are not political. An employee cannot be dismissed except for cause after hearing, and provision is made for retirement with pension in old age.

There are over 500 members of the examining corps and the appropriation bill for next year makes available sufficient funds to put in the corps about 100 additional examiners. While the additional examiners are, in terms, temporary employees for about two years, everyone who passes the civil service examination in 1924 is practically assured of transfer to the permanent corps before the two years are up.

The civil service entrance examination includes such subjects as are pursued by the scientifically inclined graduate of a college or a technical school.

R. O. T. C. News

The intercollegiate rifle firing competition in the Fourth Corps Area began last week. The University of Alabama was the winner.Last week, with an average of 94.6 out of a possible score, Davidson did not come out so well. Colonel Falls is expected to visit the college in a short time to inspect the local unit. The local headquarters usually hear from him about 10 days before he arrives, and are expecting to receive a letter from him at any early date.

The outdoor rifle range is being repaired, and firing will begin about the 1st of April. All Freshmen will be required to fire on this range before the semester closes. The company competition, which will be held late in the spring, is being planned. It is thought that the competition will be entirely different from the ones that have taken place in previous years, as none of them have been satisfactory. The best rifle shot in college will be given a reward of some kind when the rifle competition is over. The nature of the reward has not yet been determined. The high scorers last week were: H. L. Vance and J. R. Webb, who tied for first place.

For those interested in recreation or sports on or in the water, the technical, scientific, and literary institutions of the government draw so many conventions and general meetings open to the public that it is commonly said that it is a liberal education to live in Washington. The many fraternity houses connected with the universities provide surroundings tending to prolong the joys of undergraduate life. For an educated person interested in mechanics or industry, there is probably no more satisfactory branch of the civil service for a life work than the examining corps of the Patent Office. For one desiring to prepare for and enter a useful, interesting, lucrative profession, there is probably no better preparation than service in the Patent Office, preparatory to becoming a patent lawyer. There are about a dozen women now in the Patent Office, and there is no reason why many more college women should not successfully enter the Patent Office as their contribution to public service.

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office Norton’s Barber Shop

RE-EXAMINATIONS
Those who were unfortunate enough to make less than the passing grade, and who were fortunate enough to make within 10 units of that grade, are allowed to take a second examination. The following schedule has been posted for those concerned:

Saturday, March 1st—All examinations with Professors Sentelle, McConnell, J. M. Shewmake, Erwin, Currie, Arbuckle, Dendy, Thies, and Richards.
Saturday, March 8th—All examinations with Professors Harding, Grey, Lingle, Foreman, Goldiere, and Blythe, and in R. O. T. C.
Saturday, March 15th—All examinations with Professors Douglas, J. L., Douglas, J. M., McConnell, J. W., Wood, Porter, Brown, and Mebane.

Examinations begin at 2:15 p.m. Receipt from Mr. Jackson is required for admission to each examination. No examination given on any course taken prior to January 31, 1923, except on these three days. Conflict examinations must be taken on one of these three days. All Seniors who are candidates for a degree this year are required to complete, not later than March 15th, this year, all work toward the degree except courses they are actually taking in class at this time.

WILDCAT MATMEN TO MEET TRINITY SATURDAY
Next Saturday will find Coach Weems’ matmen up against their hardest obstacle when they meet the Trinity grapplers at Davidson. The Wildcat wrestlers will be out to avenge defeats of two previous seasons, and the fact that Trinity always turns out a good mat team assures that a hard meet will result. This will be Trinity's second match on an extensive schedule, on which they meet Concord “Y,” South Carolina, University of Florida, and the Jacksonville “Y,” besides Davidson. It will be Davidson's fourth match, and should find the squad in good condition. Comparative data gives Trinity a decided advantage, as they licked Carolina decisively last fall, and Carolina defeated Davidson 5 to 3 two weeks ago. Carolina was packing around a livelier aggregation two weeks ago, however, than they were last fall.

NONE TOO SMALL
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
A. T. SUMMEY, V.-Pres. and Cashier
J. W. STEWART, Asst. Cashier and Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,100,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.
CIGARS
“What a whale of a difference just a few cents make!”

Mathematics, and a reading knowledge of scientific French or German, an examination in the reading of mechanical drawings is required as well as a familiarity with the applied sciences in the field of mechanics, mechanical arts, industrial arts and processes, and applied chemistry. Optional engineering examinations may be taken. Examinations are held at many places throughout the United States at short intervals. Complete details of the examinations, as well as the time and place, may be obtained from the United States Civil Service Commission, Washington, D. C.

There is a considerable esprit de corps among the examiners in the Patent Office, fostered by the Patent Office Society, made up of employees. The fact that the entire examining corps is of necessity made up of those who have had higher educational advantages lends dignity to the position and assures congenial working associates. The work is largely individual, and after a few months much personal responsibility rests with the examiner who gains additional experience through frequent conversations with inventors and their attorneys.

It is hardly necessary to suggest that Washington comes up to the tradition that it is an ideal place in which to live. There are no factories and few slums. There are many parks well cared for and available for picnics and the usual athletic diversions. The Potomac River affords ample opportunity for those interested in recreation or sports on or in the water.