THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 21, 19XX

Life Work Campaign Begun Sunday, Marks Week of Inspirational Sermons by Rev. King

Davidson Graduate Wins Heart of Men in First Talk at “Y” Vesper Services

Rawson’s Yearling Quint Breaks Even on Journey

COLUMBIA QUARTET SINGS

Fresh Beat Bob King Holds Chapel Service in Carolina Fresh: Addition to Regular Evening Carolina Freshmen Service Monday afternoon after having been scratched in the four games of the trip. Following a very successful stay at home, the Junior Wildcats split even on their trip last week, winning from the Oak Ridge “preps” and N. C. State Fresh and losing to the Trinity and Carolina teams.

The Y. M. C. A. Vesper service Sunday evening marked the beginning of the Life Work Campaign which will close Friday night. Rev. Robert (Bob) King, ‘97, who is Synodical Evangelist of Georgia, is conducting the services. During his first day at Davidson he endeared himself to all with whom he came in contact, and a full house greeted him at the opening service of the campaign.

In the Oak Ridge game the Davidson Freshmen showed the dash and passing ability and came from behind, overcame a 15 to 12 lead and emerged victorious to the tune of 35 to 23. This was a game in which each team did stellar work. The Freshmen proved their superiority, however, in the second period. Anderson and Fawcett starred in this game, the former accounting for 12 of Davidson’s markers, while the latter dropped the inflated sphere through the laced ring for five field goals.

“But wait for the promise of the Father,” Acts 1:4, was the text chosen by the evangelist in his sermon on “Why Have a Revival?” “Just as my father hath sent me, so I send you. Why did Christ come into the world? Why did the Father send Him? ‘For God so loved the world, that He sent His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on Him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God sent not His Son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through Him might be saved.’ Except for the fact that we do not have redemption, our mission is the same as that of Christ: to bring the world to the Saviour, to God. I do not for one minute belittle the work of philanthropy being done by the church, but the real purpose of God’s people is to save souls. But we must wait on the spirit. Jesus said ‘wait’ to the ministers who had received the best training of any ministers in the world. They had been at the feet of Christ for three and a half years, but He told them to wait. They were not ready to go out until the Spirit had come upon them.”

In the game at Durham on Thursday night the Davidson Fresh showed a complete reversal of form, while the Trinity Fresh wiped out the stain of their 24 to 12 defeat at the Davidson gym. The game was a poor exhibition of basketball, with Captain Rhodes, center, of Trinity, doing the stellar work for his team. He was a good hub for the wheel of the team and caged several long shots and followed others up for markers. For Davidson, the whole team was off form. Simpson, at left guard, showed a good brand of defensive play and did much towards keeping the score from being larger than it was. Winn did some good work when he was put in as a substitute. He caged two pretty shots. The final score was 28 to 15, with Davidson on the light side of the balance.

(Continued on page 3)

Omicron Delta Kappa To Meet at Centre College

R. R. James Davidson Delegate to Fifth Convention of Fraternity

The fifth national convention of Omicron Delta Kappa will be held in Danville, Ky., on February 22nd and 23rd. The Zeta Circle of this society at Centre College is to be the host at this convention. Delegates are expected from the nine different circles in addition to the visiting alumni members and the grand officers. Davidson College is sending R. R. Jones as the representative of the Delta Circle.

At this convention many important matters will be brought up for consideration, namely: the extension program and policy during the coming year, the proposed changes in the constitution, the petitions for charters from several colleges, and in addition there will come up the reports of the different delegates on the activities of their respective circles. The Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity is a national honorary society, composed of men belonging to the Junior and Senior classes in the schools where the circle is located. The student membership embraces the leaders in every field of college activity. It was founded to fill the need existing on the campus of bringing the faculty and students into closer harmony with each other. The meetings are mainly discussion groups between the faculty and students in which every phase of student life is considered for the purpose of improving its morale and general conditions.

MEETING OF TRUSTEES

Forty-seven Davidson trustees from the Presbyteries of North Carolina, Georgia, and Florida and six from the Alumni Association will assemble on the 27th of February for their regular mid-year meeting. On Thursday, the 28th, Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., president of the board of trustees, will call the meeting to order. The board will have before it at this time several important matters pertaining both to the administration of the college and to student affairs. These include discussion of the remodeling of Rumple Dormitory and the solution of the fraternity house problem. Since most of the members of the board are men of affairs, their stay at Davidson will be merely that necessary for the carrying on of the business of the college, the great majority of them leaving before Friday night.

The Wildkittens returned to their lair last Friday night after having scratched the other first-nighters, applauded enough to make up for the rest of the large crowd which was by no means silent. Under the sponsorship of the staff of the Quips and Cranks, the financial proceeds were enough to warrant financial smiles from all concerned. A five-piece orchestra, The Frisky Five, sent forth its alluring strains upon the night air to the syncopated patting of the Shiek’s feet on the time-honored boards of Shearer chapel. Solos and chorus features by the singers proved the best heard here in some time. Smilin’ Thru and Dream Daddy received the most vociferous applause from everyone. After all is said and talked about, this affair was most enjoyable, and all students hope to see them once more again before long.

Red and Black Quint Noses Out South Carolina, But Loses

Wilson’s Peace Plan Is Praised by Dr. Goevernitz

Address by GermanEconomist Sheds Light on Present-Day European Conditions

Professor Schulze Goevernitz, of Freiburg University, at Baden, Germany, spoke to a large number of students and townspeople in Shearer Hall last Tuesday night on the subject of the Versailles Treaty. Dr. T. W. Lingle introduced the speaker with a few remarks concerning the part that Professor Schulze had played and was playing in German affairs.

The speaker opened his lecture by saying that he was a member of the Conservative party in Germany which was opposed to the Militaristic party and as such he had always admired Woodrow Wilson and considered him one of the world's greatest statesmen. Thus, he said, it gave him great pleasure to visit the college that Wilson had attended in his youth.

He then announced the subject of his lecture as "Why the World Missed the Peace That Wilson Planned." He began by saying that no one was satisfied with the peace conditions existing at present and that nearly every nation now feels that Wilson's plan of peace would have been much better. England finds the great market of central Europe destroyed and the balance of power, her policy for a century, overthrown. France fears constantly for her security, and, because of her singularity of population, finds it most difficult to recuperate her losses, both financial and physical. The United States is coming to view her policy of isolation as selfish and is slowly swinging back to the ideals of Wilson.

Wilson's plans were for a peace without victors, for a peace that would end war by removing its causes. The major points laid down by him in the early years of the war were: First, freedom of the seas in peace as well as in war. This was the cause for the entry of both Russia and the United States into the war. Second, equal rights for all nations, especially regarding traffic on the sea. No nation favored by lowered tariff either by other nations or by its own colonies. Goevernitz pointed out that here was one of the direct causes of the war; Germany resented the favor shown by Moroccan mar-

(Continued on page 5)

Doctor Lingle Tells of Phi Beta Kappa In The Southern States

Eighteen of Ninety-Nine Chapters Located in Southern States

Phi Beta Kappa, founded at William and Mary College, December 5, 1776, is the oldest of all Greek letter fraternities in the United States, and the model and inspiration of all that have followed. For many decades now it has stood primarily for scholarship, and for friendship based on mental congeniality. It has little in common at present with modern Greek letter fraternities that exist very largely for social purposes. Its secrets are so few in number that they can scarcely be said to possess any real significance. From the days of John Marshall and Daniel Webster to the present hour, justices of the supreme court, Presidents of the United States, statesmen, scientists, and scholars of the highest rank, have considered themselves honored in being elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa.

There are now 99 chapters of this venerable fraternity in as many colleges and universities, presumably the institutions ranking highest from the scholastic standpoint. Of these 99, there are exactly 18 located in the 17 states from Delaware and Missouri on the north to Florida and Texas in the south. They are located in the following colleges and universities: Johns Hopkins and Goucher, in Maryland; at William and Mary, University of Virginia, Washington and Lee, and Randolph-Macon in Lynchburg (with a branch chapter at Ashland) in Virginia; at the University, Trinity, and Davidson, in North Carolina; at Vanderbilt, in Tennessee; at the State University and Washington University, in Missouri; at Tulane University, in Louisiana; at the State Universities of West Virginia, Georgia, Alabama, Oklahoma, and Texas. The following States have no chapter of Phi Beta Kappa: Delaware, South Carolina, Florida, Kentucky, Mississippi, and Arkansas.

No more new chapters will be created until the next triennial meeting of the National Council of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, which will be held in September, 1925. The writer risks the prediction that two or three new chapters at colleges within the bounds of these 17 states—colleges that

(Continued on page 5)

FRESHMAN DEBATE

Last Wednesday, February 20th, marked the try-outs for the Fresh Triangular Debate. The discussion was, Resolved, That the Philippine Islands should be given their immediate and complete independence. The preliminaries were held in the Eu. Hall. The following men entered the try-outs: L. D. Wharton, A. C. Slaymaker, H. M. Austin, W. T. Covington, Q. C. Rice, C. W. Williams, D. H. Stewart, J. P. Gladney, Landon Williams, T. E. Gregg, L. M. McCutchen, D. M. Currie, Malcolm McQueen, Harllee Branch, W. S. Woods, Ray Erwin. The six winners will be formed into two teams, and on April 11th these two picked teams will debate the Carolina and Wake Forest Freshmen. Davidson's affirmative team will stay here and meet Carolina. Wake Forest's affirmative team will meet Davidson’s negative at Wake Forest on the same night.

The subject for Next Two Contests

Wake Forest Wins From Younger’s Men in Fiercely Fought Battle on Home Floor

McCONNELL PLAYS WELL

Charlotte “Y” Takes Wildcats into Camp for Second Time During Season

The Davidson quintet, after showing a flashy brand of basketball in a win over South Carolina last Wednesday night, locked horns with the Wake Forest contenders the following night, and were defeated. On Monday night the Wildcats were again defeated by the Charlotte aggregation, and immediately after left for their only road trip of the season.

South Carolina Game

The Wildcats unleashed the most powerful attack so far exhibited by them, on February 13th, outplaying the University of South Carolina 35 to 29, and winning their second home game of the week. Both teams were in form and the play was fast and furious throughout. The guarding was excellent and both teams elected to pass and dribble in past the first defense attempting to get close to the basket. Few long shots were tried though some such shots hit the mark unerringly. The work of the stationary guards showed up well, breaking up many close-in passes. For Davidson, Staley and Laird were in the thick of the play every moment and contributed 23 points between them. Nappy Davis showed up better at center than in any game so far, as well as McConnell, who played the whole game in fine style as running guard. Boggs was the ever-dependable stationary guard. His dribbling, for the length of the court, breaks up.

Swink, center for S.C., and forward, Wright, were the outstanding point-gatherers for the visitors, with McSwain and Abrams steady on the defense.

(Continued on page 6)

State Y.M.C.A. Council Discusses “Y” Problems

Men From Several State Colleges Hold Two-Day Conference in Charlotte

The annual meeting of the State Y.M.C.A. was held in Charlotte on Thursday and Friday of last week. Many things of importance to college life were discussed. There were more than a hundred delegates present from several colleges, and many experts in “Y” work made addresses and led the discussions.

The proposition of most interest to students was that to reorganize the state student council. This matter was brought up in a special student conference held after the regular sessions on Friday afternoon, and attended by some 17 representatives from State College, 14 from Davidson, 12 from Carolina, four from Trinity, and four from Biddle University. This conference was led by J. W. Bergthold, Southern student secretary. Talks were made by Dr. A. G. Studer, general secretary of the Detroit Y.M.C.A., J. T. Ferperman, state boys’ work secretary, and by E. S. King, secretary of the State College “Y.” Action on the state council was left to a committee which will bring it up at the Blue Ridge Conference during June 17th-26th. The plan is that a state student council shall be organized which will act as a clearing house for all business, movements, or projects that concern all the college “Y’s” in the state, and help the different college organizations to keep in closer contact with

(Continued on page 7)