8 Robert King Is Received By Omicron Delta Kappa Georgia Synodical Evangelist Recognized for Meritorious Service

THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 23, 1924 | 17.

Virginia Sketch—Chorus. There were about one hundred students and townspeople in attendance.

SEVEN MEN REPRESENT Y. M. C. A. IN LEXINGTON CHURCH SERVICES

Last week-end Harry Price, George Dupuy, Albert Hillhouse, Watt McCain, Ted Jones, Liston Elkins, and Joe Walker composed a Y. M. C. A. deputation to Lexington, N. C. The boys were royally entertained during their stay, they report. Sunday morning Joe Walker conducted services at the Presbyterian Church while Harry Price and Albert Hillhouse visited the Methodist Church. Later in the day, Price and Hillhouse took charge of the young people’s meeting. Ted Jones spoke at the regular evening service at the Presbyterian Church, his theme being, The Surrender of Self and Family to Jesus Christ. The morning following, the boys turned from church to school, and here, Harry Price and Albert Hillhouse took the floor again, speaking first to three of the classes in the school, and later, to the entire student body.

College Gym Scene of Final Lyceum Number Four High School Games Full of Entertainments

The many friends of Miss Mary James Richards and Miss Mary Caldwell Black will be glad to hear of their return to this country from an extended trip to England and the continent. Accompanied by Miss Richards’ brother, Mr. James McDowell Richards, a student at Oxford, they visited France, Italy and Switzerland. They also spent some time in Belgium and Holland. After a short visit in London on their return from the mainland they sailed from South Hampton February 20th on the Olympia and landed in New York the 26th.

This season has brought a number of exceptionally good high school basketball games to the hill. Probably the best were the four played on the popular varsity court last week. The participants were: Crossnore-Cornelius, Charlotte-Mooresville, Belmont-Cornelius, and Charlotte-China Grove. Charlotte High emerged as champion of group seven in the elimination series for the Western Conference.

Crossnore 9—Cornelius 11

On Tuesday afternoon Crossnore and Cornelius staged their annual basketball game. The result was uncertain from the beginning, neither team ever securing a safe lead, close guarding held the score to the lowest total witnessed on the local court this year. When the final whistle blew, Cornelius was lucky enough to be the one in the lead. Score: Crossnore 9, Cornelius 11.

Mooresville 25—Charlotte 28

By far the best played game of the week was between Mooresville and Charlotte Highs Tuesday night. Last year Mooresville eliminated Charlotte in a close hot game and captured second honors in the conference. Thus, the struggle between the old rivals was doped to be an exciting one—and it was. Alternately one team and then the other forged ahead. Both teams featured with excellent teamwork. Due to superior passing and to the superb guarding of Morris, Charlotte came out with the big end of a 28-25 tally.

Cornelius 20—Belmont 22

In a fast game Thursday night, the formidable Cornelius High, County champions for 1923, and undefeated previously, met their Waterloo in the strong Belmont aggregation. More accurate shooting gave the victory to the Belmont team.

The Virginia Girls Delight Davidson Audience With Vocal and Instrumental Numbers

On Friday night, February 22nd, the last number of the Lyceum was presented by the Virginia Girls. This number was by far the most entertaining of the popular series. The Virginia Girls are a group of native Virginians, hence their name, The Virginia Girls. The orchestra, the most outstanding feature of the program, was composed of the following young ladies: Miss John, violin; Miss Rurisch, bass violin; Miss Reichert, piano; Miss Green, saxophone; Miss Everett, violin; and Miss West, violin. Each time the orchestra played it received so much applause that it was forced to respond with an encore. The program was as follows:
1. March—Maryland.
2. Overture—Bohemian Girls.
3. Chromatic Rag.
4. Hark to the Mandolin and Just a Little Blue.
5. Violin solo—Miss John.
6. Vocal solo—Miss Rurisch.
7. Ballet Egyptian and Sally Trombone.
8. Orchestra.
9. Until Tomorrow and Brown Bear.
10. Vocal solo—Miss Everett.
11. Popular Melody—Orchestra.
12. Violin solo—Miss West.
13. Piano solo—Miss Reichert.
14. Reading, The Finger of God—Miss Rurisch.
15. The Crucifix—Miss Everett.
16. Prayer Perfect.

Town News

Doctor Robert King, ’06, who conducted the Life Work Campaign at Davidson, a prominent leader in the Southern Presbyterian Church, has been elected to honorary membership in Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity. He will be initiated at an early date into Delta Circle, Davidson. “Bob” King has distinguished himself as an evangelistic worker and pastor since his days at Davidson and Union Theological Seminary. He is now Synodical evangelist for the state of Georgia. Omicron Delta Kappa frequently recognizes Davidson men who have won distinction as leaders in the world, just as she honors leadership on the college campus. The only alumni initiate of this year is Doctor King. Doc. Bob King, while conducting meetings on the campus for the students, was guest at a number of receptions and dinners given in his honor at the homes of his many friends here. He was entertained by Misses Mary and Elizabeth Young at their home Tuesday evening and at Dr. and Mrs. Erwin’s home for dinner Wednesday.

PURDY’S CONVALESCENCE AN EVENT OF INTEREST

The recovery and convalescence of Wallace Purdy has been of gratification to each member of the Davidson student body. The main reasons for this interest are doubtless the untold pleasure he gave to the students in the rite of vaccination, and the unusual anecdotes which he relates concerning his first day’s freedom. One of the most interesting of these is the one about getting a haircut. Immediately after being dismissed from the infirmary, he decided that he would either have to get a haircut or become a professional pianist. As he walked into the barber shop, he noticed that the negro eyed his iridescent complexion with evident interrogation. “Haircut, sah? Yes sah, cap’en,” said the negro as Purdy sat down in the chair. With a very unusual silence and show of nervousness, the barber cut the hair on the left of Purdy’s head. When he reached the back, he asked with a puzzled look, “Nothing’s too good for you, sah?”

MR. J. L. SCOTT

Mr. J. L. Scott, ’81, of Graham, N. C., died at a hospital in Greensboro, N. C.my rather uneven voice, “You ain't the gen- ; ; boro, N. C., on February 10th, after 9 ‘man dat had smallpox, is you?” Just as Wallace answered in the affirmative, he heard a pair of scissors strike the floor, and the barber groaned heavily. Now it is clear to us all why our friend Mr. Scott, who was familiarly known as Jack Scott, was one of the prominent business men of North Carolina. He was a leader in community life of his home town, and also exerted a wide influence for good throughout the state.

In 1877, Mr. Scott came from Military School at Hillsboro, N. C., and matriculated at Davidson. One of his professors states that he was one of the most popular and likeable men in his class who ever came to Davidson. This same professor also spoke of Mr. Scott's unusual sense of humor, and told of many practical jokes propounded by John Scott. He remained in Graham practically his entire life, but he is probably best remembered by the older alumni and townspeople as the originator of the nickname “Skit” for Col. Schofield. While in college he was a good student, was a member of Kappa Alpha, and at one time served as president of the Philanthropic Society.

After graduating at Davidson with the degree of A.B., Mr. Scott began his career in the Sidney Cotton Mills of Graham, owned and operated by his father, Mr. S. Scott. However, his interests were not entirely in the manufacturing industry. He was for some time president of the North Carolina School for the Deaf; a State Senator from Alamance County, 1913-17; Past Grand Master of the Knights of Pythias in N. C.; a 32nd degree Mason, and an elder in the Graham Presbyterian Church.

Mr. Scott is survived by his wife, of Davidson, two sons, Col. Don Scott, of Graham, and John Scott, of Greensboro; three daughters, Mrs. C. W. Causey, of Greensboro; Mrs. J. Mel Thompson, of Mebane, and Mrs. J. S. Stevens, of Denver. The numerous friends of Mr. Scott among the Davidson alumni, as well as the citizens of Davidson, regret very much that such a loyal son of the college has been called home.