THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

WILSON—PROPHET OF MILLENIUM
By Chas. O. Jones, D.D.

Human greatness is personal influence while living and larger influence after death. This definition declares the five greatest Americans—Washington, Jefferson,
Lincoln, Lee, Wilson. Washington was the father of the first great, enduring free nation; Jefferson the author of the declaration
that all men are free and equal in relation to civic rights; Lincoln the preserver of the Union on the
basis that it could not exist half free and half slave; Lee the exemplar of highest moral excellence; Wilson the
first to project the possibility of a human world of free nationalities, each under its own government, the weak as
independent and unafraid as the strong, all living in international concord—and this should end war.

The Hebrew prophets foretold this in mystic language. The angels sang it at Bethlehem. A tired, war-desolated world longed for
it. A few preachers and statesmen thought that such world-peace might come just before the end of terrestrial history. Most
of such voices were timid and sectional. It remained for the son of a Presbyterian preacher, satirically called “the schoolmaster,”
to grasp the idea, construct it into a workable plan, and broadcast it around the world. No man was ever
better prepared for this daring adventure in altruistic statesmanship. Washington had no scholastic training. Jefferson had a superb education in
books and experience for administrative functions. Lincoln was born in a log cabin and self-taught. Lee's culture was largely in
one field. Wilson excelled them all in severity of collegiate study, intellectual enlargement in a teacher's chair, wideness of reading,
toil of authorship, and the power of intensive and extensive thinking. He said that he had “a one-track mind.” It
was a trunk line and ran full-fledged to the righteous aspiration of every people.

These five greatest men are the children of Providence. Each grew as opportunity opened its gates until all became colossal—human
Himalayas! The test of greatness is to fill your sphere; grow as it expands; touch every point in the circumference,
whether the radius be short or long. Washington and Lee were aristocrats, not selfish and inert, but workers and servants
of the people. Jefferson, Lincoln, and Wilson are the greatest Democrats of the age. The first, although born to wealth
and to the seats of the mighty, proposed to Virginia a legislative “system by which every fiber will be eradicated
of ancient or future aristocracy.” He affirmed that “the will of the majority is the natural law of every society,
and the only sure guardian of the rights of man.” No wonder that he thundered in the opening of the
Declaration of Independence: “We hold that all men are created free and equal!” Lincoln had a belief in people which
was almost a passion, and as he said in the Gettysburg address: “Government should be of the people, by the
people, and for the people!” Wilson was Jefferson and Lincoln combined. He had their composite clearness of thought, courage of
conviction, positiveness that all peoples should be free, and Stonewall Jackson’s heroism in trumpeting his conclusions and hopes from the
housetops to the world. What words are these! True democracy embodies “the principles and policies of forward-looking men everywhere, of
every modern nation, of every enlightened community. They are the principles of mankind, and must prevail!”

An Epochal Proposition

Wilson's life preparation brought him to his famous address before Congress, in January, 1917. He declared that the only hope
of mankind was in a League of Nations. This revolutionary proposition shook the world as a political and moral earthquake.
As a prophet—both teacher and seer—Wilson asserted four propositions: A league of all nations for universal peace. Small nations protected
in autonomy and development. The people their own rulers through representative government. The United States in the place of moral
leadership to bear its full part of responsibility, duty, and helpfulness. These propositions accepted would constitute the Monroe Doctrine of
the world and forever end war.

It is suggestive to note the comments on this address. New York Times: “By one bold stroke President Wilson removes
the obstacles to world peace guaranteed by the world.” Courier-Journal, whose editor wrote in personal antagonism to Wilson: “It is
indeed staggering—this formal actual proposal of a transcendental dreamer for the instant, practical establishment by force of the millennium of
mankind and The Courier-Journal has not the heart at the moment of first impressions to proceed into an analysis of
its fatal inconsistencies, fantastic illusions, and limitless possibilities for misfortune and mischief.” Lincoln’s “common people” were not influenced either by
praise or censure. These were the sufferers. The bleeding, staggering world hailed Wilson as the Messiah of a new hope,
and clung to him as a mountain of strength that could not be shaken by the tempests of war. To
this day the Bedouin, the Chinaman, the African, the Russian—unlettered peasants and savages—talk of Wilson as a civic Redeemer! His
fame is the widest of any man that ever lived; for press, wires, wireless and radio have carried his name
to remotest bounds.—Wesleyan Christian Advocate.

THE RADIO
(From The Accomac, Va., Peninsula Enterprise.)

It is hard to realize that the radio, no longer a novelty to the general public, is less than two
years old. More accurately speaking, only scientists and advanced experimenters had any familiarity with it; it was still in the
experimental stage, and a thing of uncanny, incredulous mystery to the average man and woman, two years ago. It is
still uncanny and mysterious to the great majority, of course, but they are no longer incredulous, but with amazing rapidity
its use has spread over the country, and no section is too isolated to know it. That is the greatest
wonder and benevolence of the radio—that it can put the loneliest farmhouse or pioneer’s cabin in intimate touch with the
outside world; that it can bring music, speeches, market reports and an endless variety of entertainment and instruction to anybody,
anywhere, who possesses a receiving set. It is not surprising, therefore, that more than 2,000,000 Americans are already equipped with
receiving sets, costing anywhere from $10 to $400 apiece. And with some 450 radio broadcasting stations scattered over the country,
of which about 50 may be classed as super-broadcasters, the most distant and least costly of the receiving sets is
within range of several broadcasting stations.

What a blessing the radio is to lonely people, sick people and invalids. Many a bedridden “shut-in's” hard lot is
alleviated and made bearable by the friendly radio; many a lonely farmer’s wife, far from neighbors and isolated by distance
from participation in healthy relaxation, finds solace in the family radio set, which brings to her as well as to
her city cousin, fine music, inspiring sermons, discourses by world statesmen, and all manner of instructive and entertaining programs. There
is now no earthly limit to the possibilities of radio communication. On Christmas Eve the ship of Captain McMillan the
Polar explorer, lay frozen in the Arctic night a few hundred miles from the North Pole. Yet his sister talked
with him from Chicago by radio and the whole ship’s crew spent a delightful evening listening to familiar songs sung
in Chicago. This year we have a presidential campaign and it will be unique as the first in history when
the candidates were able to talk, not to a few hundred thousands at one time, but to 2,000,000 American homes
simultaneously. The old “spell binding” cross-country style of campaigning will go into the discard. Thus radio revolutionizes political methods and
opens up limitless possibilities for “reaching the people.”

The future of radio is beyond conception. That it will prove one of the greatest blessings of the age may
be believed. It will bring the advantages of civilization and culture to the uttermost parts of the earth. It will
abolish the frontiers and the desolate abodes of barbarism. It annihilates time, distance.and all the

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Charlotte: 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
8:45 10:40 2:45 5:10
9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
9:15 11:15 3:20 5:45
10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

be independent, and fair to all interests. other barriers to communication. It should go a long way toward promoting that
era of peace, good will and the brotherhood of man which has ever been the dream of idealists. It has
already made audible the voices of microscopic creatures invisible to the naked eye. In the words of that immortal message:
“What great things hath God wrought.”

INCIDENT OF WILSON’S VISIT TO DAVIDSON COLLEGE

“An interesting Woodrow Wilson incident has just been recalled, in connection with Mr. Wilson's visit to Davidson College in 1916,”
writes a Davidson man. “One of the first things the President wanted to do after reaching the campus was to
go to his old room, No. 13, Chambers building. No official plans had been made for his visit and no
one knew just what he would want to do. Someone had jokingly told the student, whose room it was that
year, that he had better be getting ready for a visit from the President of the United States, but he
replied that he guessed it was his room and he would do what he wanted with it. Consequently, when Mr.
Wilson arrived on the campus, this student was in his room in the midst of a good nap. When it
was seen where Mr. and Mrs. Wilson were going, and when they were almost at the door, some students rushed
into the room and hurriedly awakened the occupant. The rapidly growing crowd outside were greatly astonished to see a scantily
clad and half-asleep young man jump wildly out of the window of the famous room No. 13 and make off
across the campus. Mr. Wilson stepped into the room just a moment later and seeing the disordered bed, explanations were
in order and he was told of what had happened. We thought it a great joke and laughed heartily. He
said he would like to meet the young man, but he was far away.” —Reprint from Charlotte Observer.

THE EVOLUTION OF THE NEWSPAPER
(From The Spartanburg Herald)

In few processes is the spread of the spirit of tolerance and service better illustrated than in the evolution of
the newspaper. The modern newspaper is not many generations old. Its development has been marvelous, of course, in the last
50 years, due to inventions and improvements entering into the mechanical end of the business, such as the printing press
and the typesetting machine, but the greater change has been in the point of view, the ideals of the profession.
The newspaper’s genesis was the pamphlet. The pamphlet became the organ and from the personal or political organ the modern
newspaper came into being. As strange as it may seem to us today, “news” was not the idea in the
early days. Opinion, point of view, was the big feature. The editorial page is all there is left of that
in the newspaper of today. It remains and still gives character and expression to the newspaper, but editorials occupy a
very small part of the space in the modern paper. The “Elder Bennett,” as he is known in newspaper parlance,
the father of the late James Gordon Bennett, owner of The New York Herald, is credited with being the man
who put “news” in newspapers. It occurred to him that people might be interested in what was going on about
them—and more interested in reading about those things that they knew most about. So he began to put “news” in
The New York Herald and all the others had to follow. But the changed point of view is most interesting.
Today a newspaper is a public service institution. Its ideal is to be independent, and fair to all interests. On
that basis it has become an institution. We know within our own part of the country newspapers more than a
hundred years old. They have had their ups and downs, changes of management and ownership, but they are still the
newspapers of those cities. They have carried the burdens, fought the battles and advanced the interests of their people through
generations, and are still fighting for those things believed to be for the common good. Newspaper organs have come and
gone, but those that caught the vision and kept the faith remain. The modern newspaper strives to be fair and
independent, interesting and helpful.

Alumni News

There has recently been published by the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co., of Charlotte, N. C., a booklet entitled “War Record
of Davidson College.” This booklet was compiled by Miss Cornelia Shaw, the college librarian, and contains a complete record of
the Davidson students and alumni who were in service during the war period from 1917 to 1918. The data was
secured by the compiler from newspapers, magazines and extensive correspondence. The contents are as follows:
1. Foreword. (Which tells of the war history of the college, including the organization of the S. A. T. C.
and the epidemic of influenza.)
2. Poem—“Our Dead.”
3. Memorial Service (May 27, 1919).
4. Rank of Davidson in Great War.
5. The Faculty in the Great War.
6. Davidson Alumni Who Died in Service. (This contains a photograph and a short service sketch of each of the
20 Davidson men who made the supreme sacrifice).
7. Service Register. (Which is the roster of all Davidson men who served during the war, giving the war record
of each.)

The booklet is highly interesting and contains a vast amount of valuable information.

The young people will be especially interested in learning that Rev. R. C. Long has become assistant secretary of the
General Assembly’s Committee. His office is at Chattanooga, Tenn. He recently resigned as pastor of the Loray Presbyterian Church of
Gastonia. He is succeeded by Rev. J.T. (“Jim”) Pharr.

Edgar Tuft, '22, was a visitor in Davidson last week. He stopped over as he was on his way to
Wilmington. He is now in charge of the responsible work which his father so successfully conducted at Banner Elk.

Rev. J. E. Purcell has been elected as secretary of the Young Men's Work, of the Southern Presbyterian Church.

Back the Life Service Campaign

of consideration. In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going to do
after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance
business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that
is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. MCALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchanging in good faith merchandise or merchandise
and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located.
The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information.

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490 Call
