THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00
5th and College Streets
Charlotte

Feeds! Feeds! Feeds!
Let Me Supply Your Feeds
H. M. Johnston
Phone 20

Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that over-eaten feeling and acid mouth. Its l-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving for sweets. Wrigley’s is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides. Sealed in its Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the SG&W Cafeteria

SERVICE SATISFACTION
That’s what we give
Cleaning and Pressing
Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Scofield Tea Room
Home Cooking
Good Eats All the Time

Now that September is so nearly gone, the hay fever victims are becoming more cheerful. Hay fever is what war has been said to be. It takes a perfectly healthy man and makes him part invalid, part firecracker, and part Ford exhaust. His eyes look like a California sunset, his nose resembles Vesuvius in eruption, his throat feels like the inside of a forest fire, and from the neck up he feels like the middle of a Japanese earthquake and the Chicago fire. A man hits the hay feeling like a million dollars and wakes up the next morning feeling like a burning ship full of woolen blankets passing the equator, and before it is over he feels like a man with a cold, eating raw onions in a hurricane of red pepper and vinegar. A man so affected looks human but sounds like an overheated Chevrolet; he feels like he’s got everything from measles to lumbago and finds that everything tastes like burnt rope mixed with last season's cabbage. The only known remedy for hay fever is to handcuff the patient, apply hot towels to the back of the neck and dull him to sleep by singing the well-known hay fever songs: “Sweet Asthma, Ben Bolt” and “Mighty Like a Nose.”

Absent-minded Gentleman — "Oh, don't mention it."

She was a nervous woman. She said to the tramp at the door: "Well, if I give you a piece of pudding will you go away?"

The tramp smiled. "Pardon me, lady," he said. "I haven't eaten for a week."

Fresh. Stigler is so green that he thought they called the synagogue a sin-agogue.

Fresh Guthery says that the Syllabus gave a reference to Coleman, but that he looked all through the Bible but couldn't find a book called Coleman. He's as dumb as the man who thought etching was a new kind of eczema.

Stout Montgomery (to Doctor) — "What are the chances of my getting thin?"
Doc — "Fat chance!"

"See that man over there? I wouldn't speak to him if I met him on the street."
"Why not?"
"I don't know him."

Hint to Motorists: Be careful of dangerous curves. Many a driver has had a smash-up because he had his arm around one.

Prof — "What does Ireland export?"
Stude — "Policemen."

If it rains much more in Davidson the boarding houses will have to start straining the cows’ milk to get the fish out of it.

"Did Bill ever kiss you?"
"N-n-n-no."
"He kissed me, too."

Freeland (to Hopkins) — "Yes, I used to have a beard like yours, but when I saw how I looked I cut it off."
Hopkins — "And I used to have a face like yours, and when I saw how I looked I grew this beard."

Ikey Goldstein thinks R. S. V. P. means Return Silver Vare Promptly.

She — "A penny for your thoughts."
Hebe McIlwaine — "I was thinking of going."
Her Father (at head of stairs) — "Give him a dollar, Mary—it’s worth it."

Stude — "Professor, there is a telephone call for you at the gym."
Prof. (absent-mindedly) — "Are you going back now?"
Stude — "Yes, sir."
Prof. — "Well, tell Mr. Jim I'll be there promptly."

Prof. — "When did Caesar defeat the greatest number?"
Student — "On examination day."

Fresh Frantz talks so much that half the student body has already grown cauliflower ears.

At the Maxwell Chambers Hotel opening, if you take a piece of pudding you'll never return. "You know your pudding better than I do."

Fresh — "What’s Mary doing back at school? Trying for an M.A.?"
Prof. — "Son, when thou callest on a damsel for the first time, see that thou goest alone, for many a man thinks it's his intellect people respect, when it’s only his chest measure."

Man the College Golf Course
Several New Holes Have Been Added and Practice Green Set Off for Beginners
With the opening of school, the golfers on the hill found the fairways of the course in almost normal shape; due to the hearty appetites of the...Small flock of sheep and the which summer, “ram” pestered the course all. In addition to the closely plucked fairways, all the hazards, natural and artificial, have been cleared of weeds and grass to enable the golfers to get safe shots from the traps. Since then the greens also have been put into playable condition and are quite fast enough for any wildcat wielder of the club. As so many men have shown interest in the Scottish sport, number one green has been cut from the regular nine and reserved as a practice hole for the beginners. The second hole will now be used as the first green, and to increase the length of this hole to 400 yards, the tee has been moved back to the edge of the Fresh Athletic Field. 

The most notable improvements planned for the course are that two new holes are to be added; one to replace number one and the other to replace number five, which will be discarded. The new number five hole will be built on the hill to the right of number six tee, thus giving about a 500-yard hole. The new number six green is to be built in close proximity to the seventh tee, which will make a 350-yard hole. With these marked improvements, Davidson will have a nine-hole golf course that will compare favorably with any of them.

Class Tournament Will Bring Fast Basketball
Soph’s Aggregation Formidable—Others’ Strength Unknown—Schedule Soon

Senior—"No, she’s trying for a M.A.N.”

Much speculation and interest is already rife upon the campus in regard to class basketball as the time for the class tournament approaches. Each of the classes apparently anticipates a successful season. In spite of its confidence, the Senior class has a badly crippled aggregation to repair before its chance for first honors will be good. Only one first-string man is back, Harry Price, stellar guard. However, a wealth of scrubs will be out to bid for the other positions. Some of the most promising of these are Mathews, Martin, and Wharton.

By far the brightest season of its career, apparently, is in store for '26. With one exception, the whole varsity is back: Huie, Cook, Parker, Moore, J. E. Moore, and Bachman, first-year regulars together with other good men, announce their intention of coming out. Probably the Sophomores present the most formidable line-up in the upper classes. Simpson, Anderson, Faucette, Goodykoontz, Farrell, and others expect to produce a squad that will outshine their first-year record. The Freshmen are an unknown quantity, which is gravely disturbing their older brothers. Many prep and high school stars are rumored to be in their ranks. Doubtless, their first practice will reveal many desirable men. Manager Oeland will announce the schedule of the class games at an early date.

The meeting was led by the president, G. Patterson. Mr. Williams was the speaker; his topic was "How Can the Band Help the 'Y'?" He turned it around and said, "How Can the 'Y' Help the Band?" for it is here to help all of the organizations on the campus. He then showed what a great work there is for Christian men of the campus, and the band has a vital part in this work. He said, “It is much easier to go to a man who has never heard of Christ than it is to one who has the claim of Christianity, for you can tell the non-Christian that you have something he has not, but the other will say that he has it as much as you have.” After his talk, there was an open discussion as to how is the best way to get the new men interested.

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
See BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

The Raleigh Cafe always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high-tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

Follow the Crowd
Abide by the Rules of the Majority of Davidson Men
JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP
Two Doors Below Book Store

Charlotte Transfer Company
Last week Vardell Williamson fell out of a first call on her bringeth forth miracles.

PATTERSON

The opening meeting of the Volunteer Band seems to predict an unusually earnest year. The members of the upper classes attended in large numbers. Many Freshmen are expected to join when they have found out the significance of the band. An invitation to attend the meetings in the Y room at the gym at 10 o'clock on Sunday mornings is extended to all who are interested.

BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
PHONE 298

GREENTREE'S APPAREL
For the College Man

Tuesday & Wednesday
Sept. 30 Oct. 1st.

QUO VADIS?

McALISTER REPRESENTATIVES
DAVIS