2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

GOOD WORK

FIGHT ’EM MAT MEN

BIG TEAM

WOODROW WILSON

When all the spears shall be by sunrise hurled,
The only watch the starlight’s silver fires.

Yet shall the world, unfettered shrine your toil;
And pain no more shall crown your patient brow;
You are at rest, and you gave your worn soil
Shall screen with flowers battle’s bleeding scar.

Your name is writ, in deathless memory
Among the immortals now at last you rest,
In truth and virtue; like some new-born star;
Rich with your gifts, at length the war-
In truth and virtue; like some new-born star;
Rich with your gifts, at length the war-
ball end that has ever played for Davidson.
It will be of interest to many to know
that the Deepa ee aac eeine vit a
sey worthy son of Davidson, Bill Fetzer. King
Played football for Davidson for two years,
the last of which he led the team not only as
Short stories from the same source. The
you were a prince among the sons of:
men,
Clear was your vision as the eagle’s eye;
All mothers blessed your noble courage when
You shrank from war, lest their loved ones should die:

And many a happy home is bright today
Because you waited, patient, calm and true;
Because you fain would find some other way,
Although a braver battle never knew.

By your sheer strength of soul you held it back,
The grim red tide that beat upon our shore;
You turned the cannon from its blood-
drenched track,
sheathed the sword, fruit it bore.

And when at last no longer human will
Could stand against the tempest’s raging might,
You went to France to strive and labor still
To lead the nations in the way of light.

Then, after victory, back you came to plead,
Across the continent, aged beyond your years;
Giving your life to curb the demon’s greed;
To banish grief; to dry the mothers’ tears,

Greater than party: a patriot, noble, pure,
The world salutes you as you lie so still;
Long as time your memory shall endure
Your noble deeds the heart of history thrill,

Four years, four months, you faced a deadly foe,
Fighting in silence, calm, without complaint;
Calmly you watched life’s shuttle come and go
Until the loom of life grew slow and faint.

Fair was the pattern; hues of faith and love,
The fainting shuttle wove with match-
less grace;
And in the pattern sat a gentle dove—
To match the sternness of a Caesar’s face.

But how you suffered no man ever knew,
While she, your helpmeet tender, watched beside;
Tempering every wintry wind that blew
From out the silent ocean, white and wide.

To her the nation lifts its fervent praise,
Nor Gracchi’s mother bore a nobler name;
She, whose warm smile was like the sun’s soft rays,
When evening and the hastening twilight came.

Some day the world shall see your dream come true;
When war no more shall rule the sons of men;
When faith and love shall spread like healing dew
Where all the battles of the past have been.

Some day the flags of hate shall all be furled,
And all the seas shall sing of new de-
sires;
In stainless strength like some sublime Jungfrau;
Brave was your life, a battle of the strong,
And all the world salutes your spirit now.

“Dead on the field of honor”—now at last
Brave as the legions that lie still in France;
E’en death saluted as your spirit passed
And lift high his cold and shining lance,

L’envoi:
Rest you great soul; O rest you calm and deep.
Sweet be your sleep
As silent ages roll.
Roll, muffled drums;
He comes, he comes;
The shadowy lines salute;
O’er fields of France the wind sings like a flute;
And all the bells of all the seas in toll
Ring out the passing of his mighty soul.

Wadesboro, February 4, 1924.

RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOLS INCREASE ATTENDANCE

The Sunday School work, as carried on by the students last week, was as follows: At Shearer the attendance was
good with 49 present. The regular night service and Christian Endeavor classes were not held, but gave place to anInteresting
Foreign Mission program. The topic of the evening was Brazil, and a good program was given on that subject. The
meeting was held by A. C. Ray, L. B. Gibbs, P. M. Dulin, and Guy Morrow. At Brawley’s, a regular
meeting was held by W. A. Christian and McJunkin, with an average attendance. There were 20 members present. At the
Mill Chapel, the regular weekly meeting was held by Marion Murray. At the convict camp, A. M. Martin and A.
N. Moffett held the Sunday School. At Oak Grove, the meeting was held by T. E. Hagar. At Cornelius, a
promising meeting was held. The attendance reached 79, which is the largest since the Christmas holidays. The meeting was led
by Wade Allison and Tom Barr, both of whom taught classes. A new way of increasing their membership is being
tried in a contest for new members. The contest has been arranged between Allison’s class and a class of young
ladies and shows signs of being very successful. Barr led the singing, while Allison played the piano. The attendance was
large at all the meetings this week. It is hoped that spring will see even greater success in the growth
of these classes.

FRESH SCHEDULE

Up to the present time, the Freshman basketball team has played three games, winning from Greensboro High, Mooresville High, and
Trinity Fresh. The team leaves on its initial trip Wednesday, February 13th, to be away until Monday, February 18th. The
schedule is as follows:

Wednesday, 13—Oak Ridge Institute at Oak Ridge.
Thursday, 14—Trinity Fresh, at Durham.
Friday, 15—Carolina Fresh, at Chapel Hill.
Saturday, 16—State Fresh, at Raleigh.

The team will return sometime Monday. The season will be concluded by playing a return game with Mooresville High at
Mooresville, the date for which has not been fixed.

Its captain but also in the number of points scored by any individual player. This team Grey and J. C.
McMaster won their laurels in the guard positions. King led his team, which was very light, through a hard schedule
of games with the record of the loss of only one state game and the winning of six of the
ten games played. He was picked to hold the end position on both the All-Southern and the All-American elevens. King
was even of more value to Davidson’s basketball team, on which he played three years, becoming its captain his Senior
year. With him at right forward and Dutch Hengeveld at center, the Wildcat basketball team of ’17 had a season
which has hardly been equaled by any other Davidson team. King scored the greatest number of points of any individual
on the team, and his aggressive attack materially aided his team in winning decisively seven out of the eleven games
played. Besides his athletic activities, King was secretary-treasurer of the “D” Club, and a member of the Athletic Association, the
Eumenean Literary Society, and the Kappa Alpha fraternity. After receiving a Bachelor of Science degree with the Class of ’18,
King joined the Navy. It was during a Navy football game, in which he did stellar work at an end
position, that Walter Camp acclaimed him the greatest end he had ever seen in action. Davidson can well be proud
of her son who received such a high compliment from one of the greatest athletic critics.

SONG HITS WILL AGAIN BE PUBLISHED BY MR. McCAIN

Peanut Parcher Will Be Illuminated by Popular Song Titles

In all of the annals of musical history, there have none been so popular and notorious as one of our
present seniors, Watt MacCain, whose weekly hits have gained for him a name throughout the entire South and, more than
likely, the whole of the American Democracy. Indeed, his fame has increased to such an extent that even the Editor
of the Davidsonian has seen fit to humbly implore of the composer that he might publish just the titles of
his latest song hits. (Of course, it would be impractical for him to ask for a complete publication). He must
have some thrills to expose such striking melodies as “The Midnight Rose” and “Midnight Sat on a Tack,” but these
are things that ordinary minds cannot begin to comprehend, for classical emotions are above student heads. Euterpe has showered her
blessings and talents upon this musician, and it was destined that he receive his great publicity and world-wide fame through
the Peanut Parcher. Time has shown a great and favorable increase in this direction, and prospects seem truly wonderful and
widespread for the noble Watt. By request, the titles of weekly song hits will again appear in the Davidsonian. The
absence of this feature detracts materially from the popularity of the college weekly, in the consensus of opinion.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty

Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S. C.

Of ’17 was the same team on which Wooley, contributors of short stories, are announced as Al Simpson and Warren
Ogden. The business manager is using the name and pen of the former more for advertising purposes than recognition of
talent. The titles of some of the poems are Noise On Main Street, by O’Connor; Come With Me, by J.
H. Calligan; Sonnets to a Georgia Girl, by D. A. S.; and others. The coming issue will contain 48 pages
and is expected to be one of the best that will appear this semester.

For High-Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

IN FAVOR THIS FALL

Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You’ll see many of them, but none like the
Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere
else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is
exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have
it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents
