THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

THE AFFAIRS OF A WEEK

Thursday
7:15 P.M.—Philanthropic Literary Society.
Eumenean Literary Society.

Saturday
3:30 P.M.—Movies: Merton of the Movies.

Sunday
5:00 P.M.—Y. W. C. A. Vespers.
7:00 P.M.—Ministerial Band.

Monday
6:30 P.M.—Court of Control.

Tuesday
7:15 P.M.—Pandemic Literary Society.
Metrophilian Literary Society.

Wednesday
6:15 P.M.—Pep Meeting.
9:30 P.M.—Bible Study Classes.

But win or lose, Coach Rawson's men may be counted on to uphold the fighting record of their elder team.

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

H. M. JOHNSTON
FANCY GROCERIES
See Me for Feeds
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
after every meal
Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that overeaten feeling and acid mouth. Its l-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving
for sweets. Wrigley's is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides. Sealed in its Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Society.

Mary—"Why does that man always refer to you as his baby girl?”
Sara—"I don’t know. Perhaps it's because I keep him up so late at night.”

Tom Baker's definition of a kiss: An explosion of love's artillery after being called to arms.

He—"Dearest, do you think you could love a fellow like me?”
She—"I might if he wasn't too much like you.”

"This is quite the cow's hips," said Tom Anderson as he sunk his molars into the boarding house steak.

G. McMillan wishes to render the following little ditty, to the disapproval of most of us:
Gather your kisses while you may.
Time brings only sorrow;
For the flappers who flap so freely today
Are the chaperons of tomorrow.

Oh You Phi Beta Kappa!

We would suggest the following method of grading for all professors:
25 per cent for knowing the name of this college.
15 per cent for originality.
15 per cent for arriving on time.
10 per cent for staying the whole period.
10 per cent for knowing who wrote the textbook.
23 per cent if the student does not sleep more than half the time.
2 per cent for knowledge of the subject.

Fresh Duke says that his idea of a joint affair is his case of rheumatism.

Fresh—"Why do they call T. McSwain the skeleton?”
Littlejohn—"Because he rattles his bones all night.”

For an English paper, Fresh McCravey handed the following in to his prof.:
What a wonderful bird the frog are,
When he sit he stand almost,
When he hop he fly almost.
He ain't got no sense hardly;
He ain’t got no tail hardly, either.
When he sit he sit on what he ain’t got almost.

Red Anderson—"A fellow just told me that I look like you.”
Red McComb—"Where is he? I want to knock his block off.”
Anderson—"I killed him.”

Roland Parker's bedtime story for kindergarten boys:
One time there was a salesman who knocked at a lady’s front door. Before the lady could answer his knock
the family bulldog began chasing the salesman around the house. When the poor fellow had made his third trip around,
the lady came to the door, and said, “Is there anything I can do for you?” To which the salesman
replied, “Yes, ma’am, please open that gate while I make one more trip around this house.”

Story for tomorrow night: “Charley and the little grey wildcat.”

Lady (in department store)—"Have you any invisible hair nets?”
Clerk—"Yes, ma’am.”
Lady—"Please let me see one.”

A la Count Davis
He mixed his beans with his honey
(He had done it all his life).
'Twas not because he liked the taste,
But it held them on his knife.

There was a Freshman at the Carolina game who had a girl with him who was so dumb that she
asked who was that fellow, “Wildcat” that they yelled so much for. She said she wanted to see him, for
he must be a mighty good player.

On account of Fresh Lowrance’s extreme social activities his name is hereby officially changed to Fresh Romance. Please comply with
the above.

Correct this sentence—"Yes, doctor, I do feel pretty bad, but I don’t want to miss any of my classes.”

Famous Stories

The following letter was received by this column last week:
Dear Mr. Busch: Why is it that men like Mr. Kenneth Bell have such winning ways with women? Please tell
me how I can acquire that personality.
Hamp Jennings.
A.—Send in a self-addressed stamped envelope, and repeat your question.

There once was a sheik called Abie,
He once had a date with his baby,
He showed her the ring,
And felt like a king;
She thought for a while and said maybe.

Dear Chester:
I have watched with interest the wonderful things that are happening to you in Australia, and I notice that you
are going to bring back presents to the boys and girls who write the nicest letters to you. And, since
my time is not taken up with anything else, I thought I would write you.
I attended Davidson College. That is, I sleep there, but I spend a lot of time, etc., in Charlotte. I
think I am the best looking boy on the campus here but nobody believes it but me. I have a
differentSuit for every day in the week and two on Sunday, and all the other boys are so jealous of
me, but they try to act indifferent and just laugh at me when I pass them. I have turned down
offers from Hart, Shaffner & Marx, and others to be their living model because I would rather stay at Davidson
and be the best looking boy there.

Now, Chester, it’s like this. I need some new suits to keep up my social standing, and also some loud
sweaters and neckties. I understand that Australia has quite an extensive collection of these articles and I just wanted to
ask you if you wouldn’t please bring me about twenty-five more suits back with you when you come, also some
of the loudest knickers and sweaters you can find. Also, please bring me the latest book on etiquette you can
find. I am a bit behind on this subject.

Yours for better clothes,
Willie (W. S.) Glenn, Jr.

Gladney’s Weekly Essay

Jazz P. Gladney, known for his scholarly diction and verbosity, also for his unequalled fluctuations of language, has consented to
grace this column once a week with a subject of his own choosing. For this week he has chosen for
topic, "Why girls leave home, or R. L. Johnston, hide your face.”

In promulgating your esoteric cogitations or articulating your superficial sentimentalities and amicable, philosophical, or psychological observations, beware of platitudinous ponderosity.
Let your conversational communications possess a clarified conciseness, a compact comprehensibleness, coalescent consistency, and concatenated cogency. Eschew all conglomerations of
flatulent garrulity, jejune babblement, and asinine affectations. Let your extemporaneous descantings and unpremeditated expatiations have intelligibility and voracious vivacity without
rhodomontade or thrasonical bombast. Sedulously avoid all polysyllabic profundity, pompous prolixity, psittaceous vacuity, ventriloquial verbosity, and vaniloquent vapidity. Shun double
entendre, prurient jocosity, and pestiferous profanity, obscurant or apparent.

Pep Vibrates Through Shearer Hall Rafters

Bryant Leads Cheers—Alumni Tell of Old Davidson to Student Body

Cheer Leader Simp Bryant called for pep meetings on Thursday and Friday nights before the Carolina game. The enthusiastic Wildcats
exhibited more pep and made more noise than has ever shaken the rafters of old Shearer before. The band was
out in full force furnishing both music and noise for the occasion. On Thursday, three alumni were present and they
each gave a short talk. One speaker said that he had been asked if he were going to the Carolina
game, and had replied, “No, I am going to the Davidson game.” Jim Hendrix, Harry Vance, Lucian Wells, Flake Laird,
and Tom Baker were called on for talks. Each made a short statement and the team’s appreciation of such enthusiastic
backing of the student body.

Friday night at the meeting, a few of the many messages received by the team were read to the assembly.
After a few yells and songs, the meeting adjourned and a Fresh parade was formed and marched to the home
of Dr. J. M. Douglass and then to the home of Dr. M. E. Sentelle where they gave a few
more yells, and were addressed briefly by these two faculty members. The meeting then broke up until the real pep
meeting Saturday afternoon.

IDENTITY OF CHRIST IS THEME

(Continued from page 1)

The argument was carried far enough to show how in the minutest detail, over 20 of the Old Testament prophecies
were literally fulfilled. The clarity and unmistakable vividness with which the virgin birth, the return from Egypt, the Triumphal Entry,
the details of the death on the cross, and the Resurrection were foretold, could leave no doubt in the minds
of any jury as to whether or not Christ was the promised Messiah. “There is not one chance in a
million,” said the speaker in conclusion, “that the evidence is not certain proof. But when we are dealing with the
eternal destinies of souls, we cannot afford to take even this chance. God has promised to give us something, if
we only ask Him, and He has pledged His Truth that He will give it, which will make us absolutely
certain that Jesus Christ is the Messiah, and the Son of God. This is the Holy Spirit, Who will come
into our lives for the simple, sincere asking.”

McCravey and J. S. Grey rendered a beautiful cornet-violin duet, with Purdy accompanying. Professor Currie ably introduced the speaker. Chester
Monk led the singing.

With the season nine-tenths over, one cannot help from thinking of next year, nor pass over the great work that
Coach Rawson is doing on Sprunt field. Out of a conglomeration of material, he has built a machine that is
so far undefeated nor tied, with the goal line only twice crossed in six games.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Come to see us for your needs in Dress and Army Shoes
Just received a new shipment of Manhattan Shirts in Broadcloth, Stripe and Flannels
Come in and look them over
