THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

WILLIAM BOSTON “TUBBY” McKINNON

Brunswick, Ga. Tubby McKinnon was one of the best full-backs that Davidson ever produced. He played on teams of '13 and '14, and was captain-elect for the following year, but did not re-enter school. The call of the business world was too strong and he entered the turpentine business, associating himself with his father in his home town. McKinnon, five feet, eleven inches tall, weighed 190 pounds when in fighting trim. The Winston-Salem Journal, after the game with Carolina in 1914, was very complimentary in its praise of Tubby, saying, “Full-back McKinnon was a star. His trusty toe scored 32 points, he also gained much ground through the line and was a mainstay on defense, blocking the Blue and White offense.” He was the high scoring back of the year, making more touchdowns than any other player and scoring a large percentage of the 257 points for the season. “Tubby” joined the army in 1918 and served his country until the end of the War. He is now in business in Brunswick, Ga.

WEDDING ANNOUNCEMENTS

The Rev. Roy Craig, '20, is to marry Miss Lila Young Amis, at the Memorial Presbyterian Church, Norfolk, Va., on October 22. The couple will be at home in Jacksonville, Ala., after November 18.

The Rev. Wilton Cook Neel, '20, will marry Miss Floride Faires, Thursday, October 13, at four o'clock at the Bethesda Presbyterian Church, near Rock Hill, S.C.

NOTES

One item that should be of interest to all alumni concerned is that all those wishing to apply for Rhodes scholarships should do so right away to Dr. T. L. Lingle. These applications should be in before October 28. All places from North and South Carolina, however, are filled, and men from these states need not apply.

'07—Rev. F. A. Drennan has moved from Mt. Holly, N.C., recently to Heath Springs, S.C.

'00—Hugh A. Query, editor of the Gastonia Gazette, was a recent visitor on the hill. He is an enthusiastic booster of Davidson.

'00—Rev. H. C. Whitener has returned to America after 10 years spent as a missionary to Japan. He accepted a charge in Missouri, and will not return to Japan.

The next meeting of the Synod of Georgia will be held in the church of Rev. L. R. Scott, '08, at Valdosta, Ga.

'16—R. H. Bennett is in the real estate business in Gastonia.

'18—J. R. Story recently passed through Davidson bound for New Orleans, where he is to start work in medicine at Tulane University. He has just finished a two-year course at Carolina.

'21—Dr. W. M. Jones is now practicing medicine at Heath Springs, S.C.

'21—J. E. Cassel is teaching in a high school in Gastonia.

'23—Pat Crawford is again coaching athletics and teaching in the Gastonia high school. He made a distinguished record this summer playing baseball for the Charlotte team.

'23—Jew Fleming is in the wholesale fruit business in Miami, Fla. Mr. and Mrs. G. D. Fleming, Sr., recently passed through Davidson and reported that Jew is doing well in the work.

'23—Bill Cooper was a recent visitor on the hill.

'24—Ray M. Carr has entered Union Seminary.

'24—R. K. Blue has been offered a position in one of the largest banks in Charlotte. He spent the last weekend at Davidson. He is in the accounting department of the Southern Power Company at Charlotte.

'20—Mr. and Mrs. J. W. McAlister, of Greensboro, announce the birth, on September 23, of John Worth, Jr.

Rev. D. Ralph Freeman is now pastor of the Arlington and Rosemark Presbyterian Churches, Kerrville, Tenn.

Ex-'24—A. S. Mellwaine is teaching at Southwestern University. The many friends of Hon. W. F. Stevenson, '85, member of Congress from the 5th congressional district of South Carolina, regret to hear that his wife died during September. Mr. Stevenson has represented his section of Piedmont South Carolina for a number of years and was recently renominated in the Democratic primary practically without opposition. He will be returned to the House, as nomination is equivalent to election.

NOVEL FEATURES AT MAIN’S CIRCUS

Slack Wire Artist, Jumping Horses, Elephants and Others to Entertain

Some of the many attractions to be exhibited in Mooresville by The Walter L. Main circus on Tuesday, October 14, are mentioned in the following news item from the Syracuse, N.Y. Post-Dispatch of August 25: Maximo, the Cuban wonder of slack wire, Miss Hazel Hickey presenting high jumping horses, the riding Lloyds and Downie’s herd of performing elephants are among the many features of the Walter L. Main circus showing today and tomorrow at Clinton and Taylor streets.

Two special sections of the circus arrived in Syracuse early yesterday morning from Medina, where performances were given Saturday. Many Syracusans gathered at the New York Central railroad yards to witness the unloading which was accomplished with dispatch and a few hours later the tented city had risen at the show grounds. This is the first time a circus has played in Syracuse for two successive performances in a single day. Management of the Main circus includes the business section. Two complete performances will be given today and tomorrow.en today. The Downie herd of pachyderms needs no introduction to Syracusans, for these intelligent beasts entertained at Shrine circus productions for three winters. Maximo is rated among the most skilled of slack wire artists, among his offerings being the cakewalk dance. Miss Hickey presented “The Count,” the horse that won the blue ribbon at the Kentucky state fair in Louisville last year. Talented horses include “The Count.”

MISFITS PROVE TO BE MISFITS OF FRESHMEN

Richardson Field, Nov. 3—Science was last Friday afternoon, when two scrub teams (one of Freshmen, the other of Misfits) met in a hectic struggle on Richardson athletic field. It was clearly a case of clear-thinking versus straight football, and science once more emerged the victor from the conflict with the well-won wreath of victory.

The stands were crowded to capacity, and hundreds of fans were turned away due to lack of seating facilities. The Misfits trotted onto the field at exactly 33 1-2 minutes past three and were cheered loudly. Their indomitable leader, old Andy Hewlitt, led his teammates onto the field, stopping for a few moments to doff his headgear to the fair damsels, who yelled huskily for their choice.

The Freshmen, in uniforms spic and span, pranced into the enclosure just 23-4 minutes later, and a wild shriek went up from the crowd. Having announced the batteries for the game, Referee Van Sant tooted his whistle, and the teams lined up in battle array. It was a beautiful sight, 22 men surging, awaiting the conflict, fearlessly. The toss was won by Captain Hewlitt, who elected to defend the goal, and the stands went into a frenzy as the Misfits kicked off three yards to the Freshmen, who returned four inches. From that point on, the game was literally fought down to their tennis shoes.

The Freshmen met with too much for them. The first touchdown came after three minutes of play, when Allen twisted through the opposition’s defense, giving the Misfits their first tally. After that, the rest came easy. Only once did the Freshmen show any real football tactics, and that was when Freshman Brown received a long punt on his own fifteen-yard line and crawled through the Misfits for a ten-yard gain.

The stars of the game included Hewlitt and Phillips. Of Captain Phillips, it can be truthfully said that no better gridiron warrior ever graced Richardson field. He was a “dream” in his beautiful uniform and boy scout stockings. Too much praise cannot be showered upon him, since it has been rumored that this was the first and only game Captain Phillips had ever participated in. It is hard to believe, but until after the game, we didn’t even know he was playing in this mighty contest.

Other stars who shone with dazzling light were: for the Misfits, Johnson, Christenberry, Rosy McMillan, Thompson, Covington, and Sims. For the Freshmen, Headlinesmen William Rah-rah Story shone brightest. “Jawn” Crinkley, of the Misfit reserves, stood head and shoulders above all the others—on the sidelines. He was at the side of every play.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young were called to Concord on Thursday because of the illness of their uncle, Mr. J. P. Alston, one of the trustees of the college. He has since been removed to a sanitarium in Charlotte where his condition is reported as being serious.

The Davidsonian for October 1, 1919, tells us that showers are being installed in North Chambers so that the bathrobe parade from Georgia and Watts will be stopped. It was the custom for occupants of North Chambers to go to Georgia and Watts for a shower and then return in their bathrobe across the campus. Syracuse should be made a two-day stand for all circus attractions, as it is impossible to accommodate all patrons at performances.

PRAYER GROUPS

Prayer groups, or morning watches, are meeting in all the dormitories. There are two groups each in South Barracks, East, and Rumple, and one each in North Barracks, West, and Jana. Don Stewart, who has the work in charge, expresses the hope that each of the groups will grow and subdivide until every man on the campus takes part in the chain of prayer.

See ‘Q. C.’ RICE, 3 South Barracks, if you have any typewriting to be done. RATES REASONABLE - WORK NEAT.

Special Top Coats $25.00
WARREN’S of Philadelphia
TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN
Made To Order Suits $35.00
SHOWING 103 WEST
Monday, October 13th
JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.
Formerly of Guilford

Our patrons select our Upholstered Furniture with full confidence in the quality of its interior construction as well as its correctness and appearance. You are cordially invited to come in and inspect our display of Furniture, also our temptingly and compelling low prices.

Peoples Home Furnishing Company
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel, Golf Clubs, and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department, Phone 3940, Charlotte, N.C.