8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

Scaramouch The Biggest Picture Made This Year

Manager McCain Announces Attraction for this Week-End

Scaramouche, the picture which is to be shown here this week, is decidedly the biggest and best picture that has been Davidson’s good fortune to secure this year. One does himself an injustice to miss a picture of this kind, for, aside from the remarkable entertainment value that it possesses, the theme treats illuminatingly and authentically one of the most vital events in the world’s history—the French Revolution. It is a picturization of the novel of the same name by Rafael Sabatini, author of The Sea Hawk and Captain Blood.

Scaramouche, according to advance reports from the larger cities, where it has been played as a two-dollar attraction, is one of the greatest pictures in screen history. It was directed by Rex Ingram, a young director who has scored a number of successes, and needs no introduction to those who have seen The Four Horsemen and The Prisoner of Zenda. The cast is headed by Ramon Navarro, Alice Terry, and Lewis Stone, with 30 other principals and mob scenes with thousands of people. In other words, it’s decidedly a picture that you don't want to miss seeing. The show will begin promptly at 7:15, and the admission is 50 cents. To insure yourself a comfortable seat it is wise to bring a chair.

Former Davidson Student Will Conduct Annual Life Service Campaign

Bob King, Popular Evangelist, Will Arrive in Davidson Saturday

The annual life service campaign for Davidson students will begin next Sunday, when Rev. Mr. Robert King will begin a series of services. The custom of having some special speaker conduct services each year has been in vogue for many years, and the Y. M. C. A. officials have selected Mr. King, who is known by many as “Bob” King, to address the student body.

Mr. King is a graduate of Davidson, completing his course in 1906. While here he was a popular member of the student body, and an honor student of his class. His popularity as a man has not diminished since he left Davidson, but has increased. He is now Synodical Evangelist of Georgia, and is successful in this work.

Many of the present student body have heard Mr. King speak, and are loud in their praise of him. They describe him as a forceful, magnetic speaker, and one to touch the hearts of those he addresses. Since he was once a student of Davidson himself, he will have the interests of the students particularly at heart, and will be able to discuss the problems of college life. He is an enthusiastic, ardent talker, and will be worth hearing. With Mr. King will come a special singer to lead the song services, and as a further feature it is planned to have the Columbia Seminary Quartet here. The meetings will begin Sunday and will last through Friday, February 22nd. Short services will probably be held at chapel, and a service conducted each night.

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL

RED AND BLACKERS DROP ONE

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. "ON THE SQUARE" CHARLOTTE N. C.

(Continued from page 1)

Laird (9) Spikes (15) Left forward Davis (5) Bullock (7) Right guard Sapp (8) Crute (16) Left guard Richardson (0) Substitutes—For Trinity: Ware for Simpson. For Davidson: Mallery for Boggs. Referee: Hengeveld.

Florida Game

In a slow, ragged game the Davidson Wildcats defeated the University of Florida, Wednesday, 34 to 22. The Jacksonville paper had made a statement earlier in the week that Davidson was the only place at which the 'Gaters expected to register a win, but they evidently counted the score before it was made.

The University carried two All-Southern football men with them, but football reps do not make basketball players. Fouls were frequent, and the game was rough. Six fouls were called on the Wildcats and eight on the 'Gaters. In the first half the score ended 15 to 11, with Davidson on the upper end of the score. Staley did some pretty work in this half, looping three field goals and two foul throws.

In the second half, the Wildcats added 19 more counters, while the Florida cagers made 11 more. Laird and Staley both vied for honors in this half, each making three field goals, but Staley was high point man of the game by virtue of his work in the first half. He made 14 of the total 34 points. There were no outstanding stars on the University’s team.

Florida (22) Position Davidson (34) Newton (4) Staley (14) Right forward Whitaker (4) Laird (8) Left forward Jones (5) Smith (2) Center McConnell (5) Left guard Substitutions—Florida: Goldstein (4) forNewton. For Davidson: Beall for Laird; Mallory (3) for Davis.

Lenoir Game

In a game that was throughout characterized by poor playing on both sides, Davidson won over Lenoir by superior shooting and came out with the long end of a 34-21 score. The outcome was never much in doubt, but Davidson missed many a chance to roll up a smashing score. The game was slow throughout, and there were many fouls. The defense of both teams was especially weak at times, and the fouls were the results of efforts to bolster up and come out of the bad places. The first half ended with Davidson holding a six-point lead, 17-11. Until the latter part of the half, the scoring had been about even, with Davidson having the advantage. During the second half, the passwork of the Wildcats never allowed Lenoir to keep the ball long enough to do any scoring, and the game was cinched by the Red and Black cagers. Staley, at forward, was the high point man of the game, trailing closely on his heels. Sook Loygs was as impassable as ever at guard. J. S. Boggs, for Lenoir, was their best man, while Moose and Brown played good games.

Life Service Campaign For College “Y”

Line-up as follows:
Davidson (34) - Lenoir (21)
Staley (19) - Right forward - J. S. Boggs (6)
Davis (0) - Left forward - Moose (6)
Laird (8) - Center - Karriker (6)
Sapp (0) - Running guard - Brown (1)
(C.) Davis (4) - Standing guard - Sechler (2)

Substitutions—Davidson: McConnell (10) for Sapp; Beall for Laird; Mallory for Davis. Lenoir: Gresham for Carriker.

N. C. State Game

Playing a flashy brand of basketball, brilliant in most respects, and only slightly ragged at times, the Wildcat quintet turned the N.C. State defenders back by the score of 24 to 13, in a contest staged at the gym last Monday night. The game was fast, and a good exhibition of the caging art. State was expected to put up a stiffer battle, due to strengthening since the first of the season, but they failed in the attempts at long shots. Boggs, R. De for State caged the first point on a foul and the score was 4 to 0 before the Wildcats sent their first point through the mesh. It was a long shot from the floor by Staley, who was without a doubt the star of the game. During this half, Staley was able to send the inflated sphere through the basket twice more from long distances, while his colleagues added three points. The score of the first half ended 9 to 4 in favor of Davidson, the Techmen being unable to add to the first points made early in the game. In the second half, State displayed a flashy streak, and in a few minutes were neck and neck with the Wildcats, and one point ahead. Then the Wildcats became rampant and began rolling up their points, the effective work of the guards preventing State from making more than two more counters. Staley caged four field goals in this half, all from short distances, bringing his total counters of the game to 14, one point more than State made for the entire fracas. Laird played with a bad ankle, which hindered an exhibition of his usual brand of basketball. Spec McConnell had three field goals chalked up to his credit in the last half. For State, Wray, captain of the team, was the best player, making seven of their total of 13 points.

Line-up as follows:
Davidson (24) - N. C. State (13)
Staley (14) - Right forward - Duls (1)
Wray (C.) (7) - Left forward - Laird (1)
Correll (2) - Center - McConnell (6)
(C.) Davis - Right Guard - Boggs (3)
Left guard - Substitutions—State: Long (2) for Duls; Dickens for Beatty. For Davidson: Beall for Laird; Mallory for Davis.

CAROLINA GRAPPLERS (Continued from page 1)

and held him the remainder of the period for a win on time. Matheson, Carolina's 125-pound man, exhibiting a superior brand of wrestling, forced a fall from P. N. Patterson, but only after six minutes and 40 seconds of fast work. The 145-pound men, Waters, of Carolina, and Houck, of Davidson, wrestled the full 10 minutes to a draw. Houck secured a time advantage of two minutes and 20 seconds, but Waters succeeded in drawing the match by technicality. In the 160-pound class, the situation was reversed and Waters, of Carolina, secured a two-minute and 20-second advantage over N. G. Patterson, of Davidson. The two heavyweight classes, in both of which Poindexter, of Carolina, and Lindamood, of Davidson, were opponents, called forth the most intense excitement of the whole meet. Lindamood had only to win one match to secure the victory for Davidson, while Poindexter had only to draw both matches to clinch it for Carolina. In the first match, the whole 10 minutes passed without either wrestler being forced to the mat. In the second, Lindamood succeeded in forcing Poindexter to the mat, but was unable to hold him for time and the match ended in a draw. The meet was awarded to Carolina, five to three. Harry Bangle, of Charlotte, refereed the match.

AN EXHIBITION of CLOTHES and HABERDASHERY AT DAVIDSON TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 18th and 19th Harry Goopk, Rep. MONDAY AND 5 West 46th Street

FINCHLEY HAS ESTABLISHED A FRESH AND TASTEFUL STANDARD OF ATTIRE, WHICH IS RECOGNIZED AND ACCEPTED BY COLLEGE MEN. JACKETS OF NEW SUITS ARE FULL-BODIED AND THE TROUSERS OF CORRECT COLLEGIATE WIDTH. FABRICS ARE IMPRESSIVE IN THEIR DISTINCTION AND QUALITY. READY-TO-PUT-ON AND TAILORED TO MEASURE Finchley Haberdashery, selected abroad, has uncommon value. New York

“What a whale of a difference just a few cents make!” —all the difference between just an ordinary cigarette and — FATIMA, the most skillful blend in cigarette history.