6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

Biddle Boys Bring Back Better Bygone Ballads

Sweet Harmony Singers of Queen City to Make Chariot Swing Low in Concert

The Biddle Quintette and Orchestra will appear at Davidson on Friday night, fostered by the business staff of The Davidsonian. This performance was scheduled for Friday night, April 4th, but due to the illness of one of the members of the quintette, it was thought best to postpone the engagement until a later date.

The group is made up of a quintette, comprising some of the best colored voices of the South, and a Jazz Orchestra, well advertised for the brand of syncopation it manufactures for its hearers. Almost all of the singers and players have appeared at Davidson before, and the quality of their performance need not be questioned; neither the quantity, because, heretofore, they have always been more than accommodating towards the students when they called for encores, which are sure to be forthcoming. To those who have heard them, nothing further in the way of advertisement need be said, and to those who have not, there is only the admonition not to miss this one chance of hearing the treat of a whole college year.

All earnings from the performance go into the fund for The Davidsonian. Not only is it a worthy entertainment, but for a worthy cause as well, and with this double attraction the promise of a large crowd is doubly sure.

Literary Societies

Eumenean

The negative of the bill: Resolved, That the Monroe Doctrine, as developed today, should be disregarded as the foreign policy of the United States, won at the Eumenean Society last Thursday. Barr and J. D. Laws spoke on the affirmative, and S. W. Brown, P. B. Freeland, C. L. Bragaw, R. R. Jones, and A. N. Moffett upheld the negative. President J. I. Smith presided and T. D. Rogers took the vice-president’s chair. The reviewer recommended all the speakers for credits. R. R. Jones and A. N. Hillhouse were appointed to lead the affirmative and negative, respectively, next Thursday.

Pandeinic

In the Pandeinic Society, the Whigs, represented by Treverton, Milton, and J. E. Moore, presented the affirmative side of the question, Resolved, That the Monroe Doctrine as a part of our foreign policy should be abolished. E. K. Regen, H. L. Currie, M. C. Yeargin, and S. W. Moore spoke against this proposal. The decision was rendered in favor of the Tories, who were upholding the negative.

Metrophilian

The subject for discussion at the last regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society was, Resolved, That the Monroe Doctrine should be abolished. The parliamentary system which was inaugurated two weeks ago showed its merits. A. H. Hollingsworth was appointed to lead the affirmative and negative, respectively, next Thursday.

Honorary Forensic Frat Elects New Membership in Debating, Taken in by Society

At a meeting of Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity, two weeks ago, the following men were extended bids and have accepted: Archie Ray, J. F. Holshouser, A. N. Moffett, P. M. Patterson, Angus McBryde, Perrin Hudgins, and A. H. Hollingsworth. This fraternity is open for those who have shown special ability and proficiency along debating lines.

Each of the new members are deserving of this honor. Archie Ray won the Junior-Senior Debater’s Medal this year in the Metrophilian Society, and is showing up well in Junior Speaking, having won a place in the try-outs. Moffett won the Junior-Senior Medal in the Eumenean Society, and his speeches are characterized by a great deal of spirit. Holshouser won the Debater’s Medal in the Philanthropic Society and is a fiery speaker with much promise. Paul Patterson has gone out for both intercollegiate debates of this year, and is alternate for the present debating teams. It is very probable he will be one of the main debaters for Davidson next year. Angus McBryde is president of the Metrophilian Society, and while not a member of the debating team still he has shown much interest and enthusiasm along forensic lines. Perrin Hudgins is on the champion team of the Junior-Senior debaters, and won the medal in the Pandeinic Society. A. H. Hollingsworth was on the debating team last fall, when he and Stith won over Trinity. He is one of the best speakers in school and well deserves the honor.

Alpha Phi Epsilon has about 15 chapters in the South, and

Metros Defeat Eu Team In Fresh-Soph Debate

McIntosh, Parker, and Pullen Win in Final Debate Against Eumenean Team

The Metrophilians were victors over the Eumenean trio in the finals of the Fresh-Soph Debating contest, held in Eu hall, Tuesday night, April 1st. President Angus McBryde, of the Metrophilian Society, called the meeting to order at 8:30 o'clock, following the regular meeting of the Metrophilians.

The Eumeneans upheld the affirmative of the query, Resolved, That the Bok Peace Plan should be adopted as it now stands. G. T. McCutchen opened the argument for the affirmative, and Claude McIntosh, of the negative, followed. F. K. Bell and W. C. Ogden, for the Eumenean, and R. B. Parker and E. T. Pullen, for the Metro, were the other speakers, representing their respective sides in the order named.

At the conclusion of the spirited debate, the judges, who were composed of Profs. W. J. Porter and W. W. Wood, and Mr. D. B. Van Sant, gave a two to one decision for the negative. E. T. Pullen was awarded the Fresh-Soph Debater’s Medal for the Metrophilian Society, and W. C. Ogden was winner of the Eumenean medal.

In the semi-finals, in which the Pandeinic and Philanthropic Society medals were decided, H. L. Shaw was voted the winner in the Pandeinic, and B. U. Ratchford won the decision in the Philanthropic. Medals will be awarded during commencement.

NORRIS TROPHY ELECTION (Continued from page 1)

Graduate Manager of Athletics, President of the Student Body, the Alumni Secretary and Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee. A special honor will be bestowed upon the one of the three men above named who is elected.

Nappy Davis has received four letters in basketball and three letters in football. He was captain of the basketball team this year and is captain-elect of the football team for next year. He is also a present member of the Wildcat track team.

Flake Laird is now a two-letter man at Davidson, having won two letters in basketball where he has played steady ball at forward, and one letter received for his work as guard on the football team. He is now on the Davidson roster of pitchers and will doubtless receive his letter in baseball this year.

Sook Boggs, for two years stellar guard of the Davidson basketeers and one year guard on the football team, received the third largest number of votes in the popularity preliminaries. He has received high mention as All-State material as a basketball guard.

Correct this sentence: “I always keep quiet in chapel when the announcements are being read, so that I can know what they are about.”Encourages interest in oratory and debating.

SIX MEN WIN PLACES
(Continued from page 1)

Oblige, dealing with the white man’s duty toward the negro, [ean third in the high hurdles, and tied for second place with Gracey in the pole vault. Roberts for the Gobblers won two first places on the cinder path, winning the 100 and 440 dashes. Red Anderson made the second highest number of points for Davidson, with 12 to his credit, and Koenig came third with nine. Gracey, Andrews, and Koenig combined made 41 of the total Davidson counters. Following is a summary of the events:

100-yard dash—Roberts (V. P. I.) first; Koenig (Davidson) second; Smith (Davidson) third. Time, 10 4-5 seconds.
220-yard dash—Koenig (Davidson) first; Hogan (V. P. I.) second; Jones (V. P. I.) third. Time, 24 seconds.

At a very interesting meeting of the Philanthropic Society, Thursday night, the society was divided into two parties, and leaders of each were elected. This was in compliance with the parliamentary plan which the society recently adopted. The names chosen for the parties were the Conservatives and the Radicals; E. D. Brown was elected leader of the former and J. L. McLean is to lead the Radicals. J. E. Holshouser was authorized to form another party, under the name of Socialists, to be under his leadership. In the absence of J. E. Gudger, the Gudger bill, providing for the immediate turning over of Muscle Shoals to Henry Ford, was proposed by W. G. Houck. The bill was upheld by J. L. McLean, R. J. Smith, and E. E. Lingle, and was opposed by W. G. Houck, E. D. Brown, and W. R. Story. As a tie in the votes, the bill was

The students will remember Mr. McLaughlin’s being here a few weeks ago to lead chapel. He made such a good impression on the student body at that time that a full attendance is assured for next Sunday night.

Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

880-yard run—Watkins (V. P. I.) first; Newman (V. P. I.) second; Davis (Davidson) third. Time, 2 minutes, 11 seconds.
Mile run—Jackson (V. P. I.) first; Newman (V. P. I.) second; McConnell (Davidson) third. Time, 4 minutes, 43 2-5 seconds.
Two-mile run—Richards (V. P. I.) first; Williford (Davidson) second; Rhoden (V. P. I.) third. Time, 10 minutes, 55 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—Gracey (Davidson) first; Anderson (Davidson) second; Culbreth (V. P. I.) third. Time, 17 seconds.
220-yard low hurdles—Culbreth (V. P. I.) first; Maurice (V. P. I.) second; Anderson (Davidson) third. Time, 27 2-5 seconds.
High Jump—Culbreth (V. P. I.) first; Gracey (Davidson) second; Bradford (Davidson) and Ellis (V. P. I.) tied for third. Height, 5 feet, 9 inches.
Broad Jump—Culbreth (V. P. I.) first; Barnette (V. P. I.) second; Buck (Davidson) third. Distance, 21 feet, 4 1-2 inches.

The inmates of the Infirmary the past week were: C. A. Long, W. H. Sharpe, J. R. Morrison, J. T. Kirkman, J. T. DeArmon, and J. W. Liles.

Pi Kappa Alpha announces the pledging of T. T. Jones, ’27, and W. F. Taylor, ’27.

Pole Vault—Anderson (Davidson) first; Gracey (Davidson) and Culbreth (V. P. I.) tied for second and third. Height, 10 feet, 6 inches.
Shot Put—Gracey (Davidson) first; Holly (V. P. I.) second; De Labar (V. P. I.) third. Distance, 36 feet, 8 1-2 inches.
Discus Throw—Holly (V. P. I.) first; De Labar (V. P. I.) second; Cox (Davidson) third. Distance, 114 feet, 1-2 inch.
Javelin Throw—Gracey (Davidson) first; Anderson (Davidson) second; De Labar (V. P. I.) third. Distance, 147 feet, 8 inches.

The “Y” will have as its speaker Sunday, April 13th, Mr. W. C. McLaughlin. Mr. McLaughlin is a missionary and is located at Suchen, China, and is now home on a furlough. His work in China has been notable. He is an old Davidson man, of the class of 1907, and is remembered more than anything else for the unsurpassed record he made in his Senior year in college. In both semesters he made an average of 100 percent. He is a splendid speaker and will no doubt bring us a real message from his work.

CONSTRUCTION STARTED ON NEW CHAMBERS BUILDING

Authorities in charge of construction on the new Chambers building state that the south wing will be ready for occupancy by the opening of the new term. Excavation work is under way and tool and material houses have been constructed near the site of the proposed building. Materials are being placed, and actual construction will be started within the next two weeks, it is stated. The extent of the excavations reveals the fact that the new building will be even larger than old Chambers. The two tennis courts immediately in front of the gymnasium will be included in the site, and the wings will extend over a greater area than was occupied by the former building. Work will be carried to completion as soon as is practicable but no sacrifice in the efficiency of construction will be made even if this year will prove to be interesting, and it is hoped that a large crowd will be present to hear the speakers contest for the medal.

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB

That’s an improvement. This cap stays put! Other caps get lost but the new Williams Hinge-Cap stays where you want it. Truly, efficiency of construction will be made even better. Like the cap, the shaving cream inside the Williams tube is a big improvement, too. For Williams lather is heavier and faster-working. It holds the water in, so that your beard is softened sooner. And the lather lubricates. The razor fairly glides over your skin! Because of a soothing ingredient in Williams you can shave every day and still escape skin discomfort. Williams is pure, natural-white shaving cream, absolutely without coloring matter. Buy it, try it—with the new Hinge-Cap!

CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
Charlotte: 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Mooresville: 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman: 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville: 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville: 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman: 8:25 10:25 2:25 4:55
Mooresville: 8:45 10:45 2:45 5:15
Huntersville: 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte: 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

WILDCAT DEBATERS
(Continued from page 1)

Alternates in inter-collegiate debates last year, while Little, who came to Davidson from Tulane this year, is reputed to be a good debater. Arrangements for both debates have been in the hands of the debating council, under the supervision of P. M. Patterson, alternate of both teams and business manager. The Emory men in the order in which they speak are: J. T. Maxwell, Maxwell Rose, and H. M. Bullock. Dr. W. H. Frazer will be the presiding officer.