THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES ALHAMBRA THEATRE

WILDCATS SWAMP CONCORD
(Continued from page 1)

First Half
Flake Laird started the scoring when he tossed in a snowbird after a long scrimmage. Dick, for Concord, came back and tied the score in the next minute. Laird tossed in another and after both clubs had failed on free throws, Staley rang up a counter, making the score 6-2. For five minutes the score remained stationary, due to poor passing by both teams, and then Faggart shot a field goal. This stirred the Wildcats to action, and with Staley, Laird, Hewlett, and Davis figuring in the scoring, they ran up 11 points.

It comes to our attention that steps are being made, and incidentally attached in the form of fire escapes, for the immediate improvement of Shearer Hall.

Prof: You'll get “A” on this paper.
Abie Kugler: A what?
Prof: A zero, why?

Harold Burke: And what if we don't study tonight, Charlie?
Charlie Brown: I'll get a zero on Spanish tomorrow.
Harold: Well, that’s nothing, let’s go to the show.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT

It Happens in Books
The weather was as cold as torment,
The pupils called on the president
And asked that school be suspended.
With his sinister smile
And executive style,
He said, “For a week, school is ended.”

CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Fresh Henderson, after following the Salvation Army band for a block and a half, returned to his comrades with the startling information that it was a phonograph orchestra. He said he knew that it was what it was because he saw “S. A.” on the men's collars.

Holshouser, for the “Y,” and Captain Davis, for Davidson, each added 2 points as the period closed. Score at the end of the half: Davidson 19, Concord 6.

Second Half
Coach Monk's team started off like a flash in the final period. Hewlett, Davis, and Staley scored in rapid succession after some good passwork. Sapp came down the floor and caged two in a row. Staley caged two and Sapp again came down the floor to score from the tip-off. Hewlett then made 2 shots from the 17-foot line, making the score 37. Staley tossed in a couple of shots, bringing his total to 8 baskets for the evening. Beall went in for Staley and added two more field goals. On the next play, Sook Boggs was under the basket like a Nash and sent the agate through the meshes. Laird, who went in for Hewlett, made the final counter of the game. The Concord team was unable to locate the basket in the final half, but time after time the ball bounced off the rim into the hands of Sook Boggs, who shot it up the floor out of danger. The “Y” team missed 3 foul shots during the half. Final score: Davidson 37, Concord 6.

Our Weekly Fable
Once in ye days that have passed there was a young man born into this hemisphere to become the sole offspring of Penurious. He said, “I glory in my cellar full, which to the end endures. My breath is as the breath of ten, because my likker’s pure.”

Leeper’s work at center was noticeable. Several times he made shots count. John Schenck, an old Davidson player, held down the guard position on the Charlotte team. Aleck McMillan, another Davidson boy, substituted for him near the end of the game. Sapp and Boggs, at guard, played well for the Wildcats. Staley was off-form and could not find the basket.

First Half
Laird missed a foul shot. Nieman made the first counter of the game with a long shot. Davis missed a free throw after which Leeper scored a second field goal for Charlotte. Davis tossed in a goal from a difficult angle. After Davis missed a foul shot, Leeper tossed in another field goal. Nappy shot his second field goal of the evening. Smith made two foul shots good. Laird put one in under the basket. Staley missed two foul shots but followed in for a goal. (Continued on page 4)

WRIGLEYS

EAD COLDS
Melt a little Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Always use freely just before going to bed.

Phil Cox evidently knows more about etymology than we do. He recently informed us that Lapsas styli was the plural of Epi-stylus.

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

English Prof: Mr. Cox, tell us the theme of this poem.
Phil Cox: I don't believe I remember that, sir.
Prof: Mr. Cox, did you read the lesson?
Cox: No, sir.

JOHNSON'S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It

History Prof: It Actually Happened
Little Holly, what are you reading for parallel?
Holly: The Life of John Adams, by Mr. Brittanica.

BARBER SHOP

It has been rumored that the good Saint Nicholas has hibernated for another 12 months in an effort to manufacture sufficient toys to fill Buffalo McKinnon’s socks.

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.

Fair Young Thing (seeing Wallace Purdy blowing the Helicon): Oh! but isn’t he wrapped up in his music?
Alma: Possibly you don't remember me, professor, but you sent me to the Library to get a book for you fifteen years ago, and—
Prof: Yes, yes, and have you got it yet?

Fifth Story (writing theme): We children no longer say, “We are Presbyterians,”or, “We are Americans,” but “We are five.” That just goes to show how figure mad the world is getting these days. 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit.

When Spoofy Hillhouse asked Alki Jones if he had had an accident, Alki replied, “No accident. A six-foot rattler just bit me, but he meant to do it all the time.”

Checking Accounts Invited

Piggy Martin says that the best way to fish is to concentrate and the fish literally jump into your basket. Frank Alford upholds the idea of spitting tobacco juice into the fish’s eyes and then clubbing them with a baseball bat. Ted Jones maintains that the best way to take in the drownless fin-bearers is to dash madly upstream shouting, “I am Bryan and drunk as a monkey ancestor.” He says that it is no task at all to pick up the stunned fish then.

Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows advice that he had just seen the local Sym-parents. He was not a young man when he was born but got so some years after. Right early did he learn that a piaster saved is a piaster made, and that more enjoyment can be secured by preening the feathers on a silver eagle than any chicken that dots the necking parties. He walked his hands to save his shoes and turned his necktie inside out. His only foolish expenditure was the purchase of Dr. Hokum's Toothsome Toothpaste, for which he had a passion, or as the vulgar would say, he liked it. His paternal father trained him up like a bean vine to observe thrift and not to talk much for fear of stretching his collar. He became so stingy that he could squeeze a nickel so hard, six pennies would drop from his fist. The rattle of filthy lucre pleased him more than the knocking of a high-powered flivver or the clink of coke bottles. As his pathway was a shining example of success to all who strived to have their fingers in the dough, he was the idol of mother’s eyes when he appeared on the streets of ye native village. The call of the big city came over him so he sallied forth. He even bought a change of toothpaste with his trusty black brush. The bright lights of the metropolis dazzled his optics for a while, but not so much that his rustic vision could not observe all the calves and chickens. He had not slipped behind the barn and perused the pink pages of the Police Gazette for naught. He met with a pretty stenographer who really used a typewriter. She vamped and re-vamped him. He fell for her like an Ethiopian does for the well-known marsupial. He even got so bold as to get himself some chewing gum on Sunday nights to dispel the onions of the day. However, the vamping person lured him away from his cherished piasters. She wheedled him into saying yes every time she opened her flytrap. The poor rustic felt his jack slipping like a sprig of okra down a fat man's esophagus. No more than a month had passed until his bank account was laying low. The fair one simply devoured his money and he couldn’t catch on. He just wondered. Before long he was broke, dead broke. The old man sent him a registered letter saying for him to come home as he had struck oil. He had busted his cranium over a kerosene can when he stumbled over a feline, slumbering on the floor. So the poor lad traveled home, disgusted with women in general. After he had thought for several days, he came to the conclusion that all they want is your money.

Davidson 49, Concord 6

Davidson (49) Position Concord (6)
Kagrat (2) Right Forward Laird (8)
Dick (2) Left Forward Davis (7)
Peery Center McConnell (0)
Right Guard Denny (0)
Tanee (0) Left Guard Boges (2)
Moore (0)

Substitutions: Hewlett (6) for Laird; Sapp (6) for McConnell; Morrison for Sapp; Beall (4) for Staley; Sappentield for Faggat; Holshouser (2) for Hance.

Foul shots: Staley 0 out of 3; Beall 0 out of 1; Hewlett 2 out of 3; Davis 1 out of 2; Boggs 0 out of 1; Dick 0 out of 1; Denny 0 out of 2; Hance 0 out of 1.

Time of halves: 20 minutes.

Charlotte “Y” Game

Coach Younger's cagers fell to the Linkmen 26-20 in a hotly fought contest Monday night. Neither side was able to score effectively in the first period, and the half ended with the score 8-7 in the Wildcats’ favor. It was the first “Y” victory over Davidson in three years.

Referee: Hengeveld.

At the opening of the final half, the “Y” cagers gradually forged into the lead and piled up a 12-point lead. The Wildcats cut this to 6 points just before the game ended. Nieman was the outstanding star for the evening with 12 points, 10 of which came before the final half.

"Every Meal Have a packet in your pocket for ever-ready refreshment. Aids digestion. Allays thirst. Soothes the throat. For Quality, Flavor and the Package."

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

REGISTERED PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY PHARMACISTS
221 West Trade St.

The Peanut Parcher takes this opportunity to state its wishes for the year 1924. It wishes for Stout Montgomery that flesh will pass him by, for Zerah Young no more towering tendencies, for Flake Laird an ever-increasing beauty, for Mason Fields freedom from Leap Year Flappers, and to the whole student body a happy and prosperous New Year.

INTERCOLLEGIATE DEBATES

(Continued from page 1)

Facilitate handling of the preliminaries. Those who are uncertain as yet should hand in their names as soon as they decide, not later than the 1st of February.

We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY