THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

SORE THROAT
Tonsilitis or hoarseness, gargle with warm salt water. Rub Vicks over throat and cover with a hot flannel cloth. Swallow slowly small pieces.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe

And he spoke unto me, “Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye shall know a man of Davidson by the laundry mark on his sock that shall say, being without supporters.”

Charlie Brown is so dumb he thinks puppy love is a taste for hot dogs.

It’s An Ill Wind—
Skit was riding with his girl in an open car. Silence ensued for a few moments, and then Skit burst out: “Gosh; ‘at cold wind’s running up my britches leg something awful.”
Girl (taken unawares)—"Mine, too!”

Sunk!!
Speedy Car had asked to use the ‘phone, and his nice young hostess was showing him where it was.
Speedy (taking down the receiver)— “Shucks, I don't know how to operate this, there’s no crank on it.”
Fair Young Thing—"You're blind as a bat, there’s one right there on the receiver.”

Little Boy—"Papa, do automobiles have feet?”
Proud Father—"No, Sonny. Why?”
Little Boy—"Why, I just heard you tell brother to stop by the garage and get a coupla shoes for the car, that’s all.”

Winston-Salem. Monday Nite.
My Dear Nappy:
Do I love you? Why, yes, darling, I love every corner of your precious square head. And your eyes—your eyes remind me of stars, even those who are as famous as Ben Turpin. And, Nappy darling, your manly physique, with your athletic build, would look good in anything to me—even the close of day. Which reminds me I might as well hang my clothes on this line.
Isle of View,
Cassie Role.

Boy (to clerk in store)—"I want some pepper.”
Clerk—“What kind of pepper, red pepper, or black pepper?”
Boy—"Naw, tissue pepper.”

The call for track candidates was issued yesterday by Captain Streibich, who will coach the new men, and a large number of men answered the call. Since all of the meets will be with conference teams, Freshmen will not be allowed to participate. This makes the valuable Freshman material useless to the Varsity squad, but several meets have been arranged by Streibich for the new men. Besides the seven letter men from last year’s team, Selser, Gudger and Williford are the most promising candidates. Vance is out for baseball, and has been unable to practice with the squad, but he will probably be used in the broad jump.

Spring Sports In Full Swing In Wildcat Lair
Red and Black Teams Working Hard for Opening Contests of Season
YOUNGER TRAINS TOSSERS
Football, Baseball, and Track Underway—Captain Ellis Coaches Track Team

The Varsity and Freshmen athletic fields are resounding this spring with the crack of the hickory, the thud of the pigskin, and the crunching of cinders, as the candidates for three athletic teams devote themselves to strenuous practices each afternoon. With spring practice in football, and the regular practice sessions in track and baseball being held each afternoon, the Davidson coaching staff is being taxed to the utmost. Never before in the history of the college has the athletic field been the scene of such varied activities as at the present time; and, judging from prospects, winning teams are going to result from this new and earnest endeavor.

When a girl says a man treats her like a dog, she usually means lap dog.

Peter Booger Boss (seeing a hometown girl at a basketball game)—"Hello, Helen, how’s everything? How about seeing you after the game and going over to the hall?”
Helen—"What hall?”
P. B. B.—"Shearer Hall.”

Varsity Baseball
Coach Younger directs the training of the diamond stars, and is quite optimistic over his chances of winning nine. With a regular squad of 30 men reporting for practice, he is running his charges through several hours of batting and field practice each afternoon. A game was recently staged between two teams, picked from the 30 candidates, which resulted in a 10-3 victory for the Varsity players. The probable line-up for the Oak Ridge game, which is less than two weeks off, will include the following players: Boushee, p.; Johnson, c.; Smith, 1b; Simpson, 2b; S. Alford, ss.; Covington, 3b.

STONES FROM CHAMBERS WILL BEAUTIFY CAMPUS
The contract for the erection of the South Wing of New Chambers was let last week to Blythe & Isenhour, of Charlotte, N.C., builders of Watts, East and West, Davidson's three newest dormitories. Just as soon as the work of removing the foundation stones from the old building is completed, the construction company will rush their crew of men to Davidson and hurry the building as much as good work will permit. Mr. D. B. Van Sant, college engineer andVance F. Alford, superintendent of college buildings and grounds, has charge of the removing of the foundations, which began Monday. He is hauling the granite to various places on the campus and later plans to do much with them for the beautification of Davidson College. The finest of the granite will be used in the construction of a retaining wall between the sidewalk and the college grounds from Dr. Martin’s home to the church corner. This is to prevent the washing from the higher level of the campus to that of the sidewalk, which for years has been going on. The other stones will find use in the erection of columns at the different entrances to the campus. None of the building material will be used in any way in the construction of the College.

Jewelry Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens

Coach Rawson finds his hardest job in connection with the Freshman team in thinning out from the exceedingly large list of candidates the most likely-looking players for each of the nine positions. There is unusual talent in the Freshman class, resulting in a large galaxy of stars out for each position. The yearling team is well supplied with moundsmen, there being 12 men out for this position alone. The Fresh schedule has not been definitely completed, but arrangements are being made for a three-game trip through North Carolina, a three-game trip through South Carolina, and a number of games at home.

Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters Spring Football W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

Coach Tilson is instilling an accurate understanding of football fundamentals in the large squad of candidates who report for afternoon football practices. A tough scrimmage, lasting about 45 minutes, is held each afternoon; and “Tex” corrects the mistakes of the various men as they are made in actual practice.

Track

The college authorities plan to let the four massive columns from Old Chambers remain for some time, as the front of the new building will be 100 feet to their rear. Whether they will later on be entirely removed or whether they will remain as a memorial to Old Chambers or to Mr. Chambers, the donor of the old building, is as yet unknown, but soon they will alone remain to witness to the former grandeur of this structure of ante-bellum times.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT

“Watch out,” cried the crook, and as the old man turned to look, he slid his watch from his pocket that he might not think he'd lied. Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.

“I got it in my neck,” replied the ostrich when the keeper asked what had become of the water cup.

Violinist (before beginning his sixth selection)—“And what key would anyone in the audience rather I play this in?” Voice from the rear—"Key West, Fla!”

221 West Trade St.

Prof.—"Give me a sentence using the word ‘diadem.’”

GUILFORD’S of PHILADELPHIA Showing Complete Line PARLOR OF WEST Wednesday, March 26th Clothing and Haberdashery For the College Man Suits $33.50 Up Grey Flannel Trousers $8.50 JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.

Captain Ellis has arranged to hold time trials for the track squad on Saturday afternoon. These trials will determine the cinder path artists who will take part in the meet with V. P. I. on April 3rd. Regular practices are held each afternoon, and the new track is aiding materially in the building up of a championship squad. The call for Freshmen track candidates was issued Tuesday.

CLEANING AND PRESSING Old P. O. Building

GASTONIA ALUMNI PLAN BANQUET FOR WILDCATS

GASTONIA—Plans have been completed by the Davidson College Alumni Association of Gastonia and Gaston County for an elaborate banquet and dinner in honor of the Davidson Wildcat baseball team which meets the University of North Carolina outfit here on Easter Monday, April 21st. The Gastonia Athletic Association brings the Davidson-Carolina game here this spring and a large crowd is expected. Gaston alumni of both institutions are hard at work to make the game a big success. The committee of Davidson alumni in charge of entertaining the Davidson players is composed of Hugh A. Query, chairman; Henry Wilson, secretary; Robertson LaFar, Pat Crawford, J. Eris Cassel, and R. H. Bennett.

JOHNSON’S College Barbers— Let Us Prove It

Victrolas Victor Records Furniture, Rugs Draperies and Steinway Pianos Interior Decorations Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos Player Piano Rolls We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc. Parker-Gardner Company CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BARBER SHOP

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles WHITE DRUG COMPANY