*quarter and the other in the final period usually beats Trinity, not such a large 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20,
1924*

WILDCATS HOLD CAROLINA (Continued from page 1)

Bonner’s fumble and ran to the 20-yard line before being forced out of bounds. It was only by the narrowest
margin that he was stopped. After a punting exchange, the Fetzer machine worked its way within kicking distance, but Vance
blocked Hackney’s kick and recovered for Davidson. Great punting by Laird featured the remainder of the half. Merritt and Devin
were the bright lights for Carolina. The half ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on her own 25-yard line.

Hendrix made a beautiful 25-yard return of Merritt's kick-off to start the half. Laird punted 45 yards and the Tar
Heel backs started their drive down the field, but the Wildcats held and the ball went over on the 12-yard
line. Laird punted 40 yards and Carolina drove down the field again. Again the Tar Heels tried a kick but
Devin failed. Just before the quarter was up, Hackney failed on another kick. Laird punted 45 yards to Devin and
Captain Nappy, who was playing the game of his life, downed him in his tracks. Boggs recovered a fumbled punt
but was tackled before he could regain his feet. For 10 minutes the ball seesawed back and forth and then
Hackney failed on another drop-kick. Then it was that the Tar Heels drove down the field and Hackney accounted for
the six points.

Robinson played a wonderful game at center and was the outstanding cause of the Wildcat defeat. Devin and Merritt were
the bright lights in the Carolina backfield, and Hackney’s toe did the scoring. The plucky Wildcat defense won the admiration
of the stands; although within the 20-yard mark eight times, Carolina was unable to pierce the Davidson defense for a
touchdown. The work of Vance and Laird was the outstanding feature of the line play. Time after time these two
seeped through the interference to nail the Carolina backs. Captain Nappy Davis, on end, played the greatest game of his
career, making sensational tackles and starring on the receiving end of passes. Tom Baker, whose fight against odds has been
outstanding this season, was hurt on the first play but stayed in until the final minutes. Sappenfield was the star
of the backfield. His tackling was accurate and he saved the Wildcats several times from being scored on by his
shoestring tackles. His passes to Leggette and Davis in the final minute were perfect. It was 11 fighting Wildcats who
guarded the goal line so well, and to the fighting spirit of the Red and Black machine is due the
splendid showing.

Varsity to Close Great Season in Trinity Game

Neither Team in Action Saturday as Coaches Prime for Grand Finale

When Davidson and Trinity clash on Hanes Field in Durham on Turkey Day, Trinity will have played eight games and
Davidson nine. Trinity has broken even, having won four and lost four, while on the other hand Davidson has won
six, tied one, and lost two. Trinity opened her football season by losing to State, 14-0 in Raleigh, September 27th.
Completely outplaying the Wolf Pack in the first half, it looked like a Trinity victory, but the Methodists lost.

At two-sixteen, while the crowd was jamming its way through the gates of Richardson Field, the Carolina squad came on
the field, followed a few seconds later by the Davidson team. The Davidson band played “Hark, the Sound of Tar
Heel Voices,” the University alma mater, while the stands stood. Soon afterwards, the Davidson students sang “O Davidson,” led by
the band. The two teams were warming up. Captain Davis and Matthews were called for the toss-up, Davidson kicking from
the south goal. At two-twenty-eight, the two elevens lined up for the kick-off. Black kicked to Hogan on the 20-yard
line who was tackled by Baker after a return of six yards. On this play, Baker was injured but played
the remainder of the game. Bonner squeezed a yard off right tackle. Merritt kicked forty-four yards, the ball going out
of bounds on Davidson's 29-yard line. Black hit center for one yard and Laird punted against a strong wind to
the fifty-yard line. Bonner ran out of bounds for a two-yard gain. Devin drove through center for five yards and
Bonner was stopped by McComb around left end after making five yards and a first down. Ball on Davidson's 41-yard
line. Carolina was offside. Devin raced around left end for six yards. Merritt made sixteen at the same place. First
down on Davidson's twenty-four-yard line. Devin went three yards over center. Captain Davis caught Merritt from behind for no gain
but Davidson was offside. Carolina had first down on Davidson's sixteen-yard line. Devin drove for four yards around right end.
Merritt took one over center. Merritt doubled for two over tackle and on the next play took the ball for
a first down on Davidson's four-yard line. Flake Laird stopped Underwood for no gain. Merritt was thrown for a one-yard
loss. On the next play, Bonner fumbled and Captain Nappy grabbed the ball and raced down the west sideline to
Davidson's 20-yard line.

Black failed to gain on a tackle play. Carolina was penalized fifteen yards. After losing two yards around end, Wells
drove for seven off left tackle. Black made a first down when he drove for nine yards through guard. Robinson
threw Wells for a two-yard loss. Jackson tackled Black after he had gained two through center. Sappenfield-McComb pass gained four
yards. Fourth down and six to go, so Laird punted over the goal line. On the first play, Merritt kicked
forty-eight yards to Davidson. Black drove through center for three yards. Hendrix made two on a cut-back play. Laird punted
to Carolina's 29-yard line. No return.

Second Quarter

Merritt barely made one around left end. Merritt punted, Epstein grounding the ball as it rolled to Davidson's 20-yard line.
Davidson was penalized fifteen yards. Laird punted on the first play, Vance leaping over interference to tackle after a five-yard
return. Devin plowed through the line for four yards. Hendrix hit Underwood for a one-yard loss. Hendrix again tackled Underwood
for barely a one-yard gain. Merritt punted, Captain Davis returning the bounding ball for five yards to Davidson's 15-yard line.
After Hendrix had lost one yard, Laird punted forty-one yards, Bonner returning six as Captain Davis tackled. After Devin hit
tackle for five, Davidson called time out. Merritt squeezed one yard out of Davidson's line. Hackney, coming in as a
sub, shot a perfect pass to Bonner for a ten-yard gain. Davidson's line strengthened as Merritt made only one and
Devin got off for only two around right end. Bonner grabbed a pass as it fell from Captain Davis, for
no gain. Hackney’s drop-kick was blocked and Vance recovered on Davidson's 25-yard line. Wells made two on a fake play
but Carolina's line threw Hendrix on a wide end-run for a one-yard loss. Laird kicked fifty-four yards to Bonner who
recovered on his own 17-yard line. Sappenfield returned Merritt’s punt five yards to Carolina's forty-yard line, Davidson gaining thirty-six yards
on this exchange with winds against Carolina this period. Hendrix drove through center for six yards and Covington lost five
yards around right end. Hendrix strained to get a wild pass. Sappenfield’s pass was intercepted by Matthews on Carolina's 33-yard
line. Devin hit center for three yards. Carolina got a first down as Davidson was offside. Merritt ran around end
for four yards. Carolina was penalized fifteen yards. Bonner drove over tackle for ten yards. Merritt fumbled his own attempted
punt but recovered. Merritt punted 35 yards, no return. The whistle for half blew. Davidson first and ten on their
own thirty-yard line.

Third Quarter

Merritt kicked to Sappenfield on Davidson's 5-yard line, who started around left end, handed the ball to Hendrix who reversed
field for 25 yards. Wells carried the ball out-of-bounds for a one-yard gain. Carolina stopped Hendrix for a slight loss
around end. Laird punted 43 yards to Devin, returning fifteen. Merritt made eighteen yards around left end. Devin went around
the other flank for five. Laird stopped Underwood for a one-yard gain. Jackson recovered Devin’s fumble in a mad scramble.
Vance threw Bonner for no gain. Devin went around right end for seven yards and Merritt made a first down
over center. Bonner let Hackney’s pass slip out of his fingers. Laird hit Devin for a one-yard loss and Vance
threw Bonner four yards behind the scrimmage line. BallHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Goes over to Davidson as Hackney-Merritt pass fails to make yardage. Laird lifts punt for fifty yards, Baker tackling Devin
after 7-yard return. Merritt ran over tackle for 13 yards. Hackney fails to gain. Bonner carried ball five yards to
fifteen marker. Laird again stopped Hackney for no gain. Hendrix picked up Devin’s wild drop-kick and goes to ten-yard line.
Laird punted to Hackney who returned 11 yards to Davidson 34-yard line. Fordham made three. Pass grounded. Devin gained three
over tackle. Ball on 20-yard line. Hackney’s drop-kick slipped through both teams and hits goal posts only three feet above
the ground. Wells failed to gain. Black made three. Laird punted forty-three yards, Captain Davis tackling Devin in tracks.

Fourth Quarter

Ball on Carolina 36-yard line. Merritt kicked, Sappenfield returning fifteen yards to 30-yard line. Black lost one as he took
ball out of bounds. Wells skirted left flank for gain of two. Laird punted to Carolina 42-yard line, no return.
Merritt lost one as he tried Laird’s tackle. Carolina off-side. Merritt punted ball out of bounds on Davidson 4-yard line.
Laird kicked to Hackney, Boggs picking up fumble and all but getting loose for touchdown. Davidson penalized fifteen yards. Laird
punts out of bounds on Davidson 40-yard line. Merritt drove for five yards off-right tackle. Hackney side-stepped for fifteen yards
on cut-back play. Hackney made only one over line. Devin fails to gain as both teams off-side. Merritt took four
off-tackle. Pass grounded. Ball on 14-yard line. Hackney’s drop-kick goes wild. Hendrix went over center for one and Black plowed
for ten yards at same place. Black took four more yards. Hendrix gained three on guard-play. Laird punted 32 yards
against wind, Devin returning 13. Davidson line hold to one-yard gain. Carolina started drive that brought victory at this point.
Devin raced for 23 yards on tackle play. Merritt made eleven and another first down, Dill hit center for five
yards and Merritt goes through tackle for another first down. Ball on Davidson 12-yard line. Devin made five and cut-back
play and Merritt fails to gain on reverse. Devin made it fourth and four yards to go, ball on six-yard
line. Hackney kicked field goal that barely cleared cross-bar. Score Carolina 3, Davidson 0. Merritt kicked over Davidson goal. Sappenfield
to Black pass gained six yards. Robinson intercepted Davidson pass on 33-yard line. Merritt drove off-tackle for five yards. Hackney
shot pass to Devin, gained ten. Merritt again made five. Pass grounded. Tom Baker threw Devin for no gain, Carolina
off-side on this play. Hackney drop-kicked again, ball on fifteen-yard line. Merritt kicked into spectators back of end-zone. Sappenfield passed
down east side line to Leggette for gain of thirty yards. Davidson penalized five yards. Captain Davis grabbed 23-yard pass
off the ground. Game ended after Sappenfield made brilliant run down side line after fumble. Ball on Carolina 33-yard line.
Score, Carolina 6, Davidson 0.

Prayers by Steele, Rose and Hodgkin. Then three scripture lessons on subjects each beginning with the letter “P” followed, given
by Phillips, Davis and Purdy. The subjects were Praise, Prayer, and Power. The third or last part of the program
was made up of three short talks. Poole’s was on The Why and How of C. E. Publicity. Milton, who
spoke on Agents for Christ, made some thought-inspiring suggestions. In Various Ways of Advertising C. E., J. Garrison told of
several attractive and striking ways of advertising Christian Endeavor.

You have to know college men and what they want before you can build shoes to suit them. The new
John Ward Fall Styles fit their needs with the same snug satisfaction that the shoes will fit their feet. On
Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store November 26 and 28.

John Ward Shoes Incorporated — ARO. U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia. Address for Mail
Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City.

Their drive in the third quarter and allowed Al Johnson to cross their goal line twice. The following Saturday Guilford
fell before the Blue Devils in Durham. She had the advantage during the entire game and completely outplayed her opponents
to a 33-6 victory. Carolina, the next opponent, was credited with a 6-0 victory due only to two drop kicks,
one by Devin in the third by Sparrow. Although loser, Trinity claims a moral victory for this game. Incidentally, it
might be said that this was the first game between the schools that Carolina has failed to score a touchdown.
Invading the “Old Dominion” a week later she evened up her standing by taking one from Richmond College in Richmond.
Playing straight football for four quarters the Blue Devils annexed a 14-0 victory. However, Virginia retaliated the following Saturday when
William and Mary uncorked a dazzling forward pass attack to trounce her N. C. rivals 21-3. This came as a
surprise both to the rooters and dope fiends. Although Virginia score was expected. Playing the next game in her own
back yard she was easily able to roll up a 54-0 score over the lighter Elon eleven. To passes over
fifteen of which were completed for substantial gains and were responsible for a goodly number of the points scored. Armistice
Day spelled defeat for the Blue Devils at the hands of Wake Forest, when the Demon Deacons completely crushed them
under a 32-0 avalanche. However, the score in no way told the relative strength of two teams. Trinity lost all
chances for championship honors by losing this game while Wake Forest more firmly established herself as being in line for
that honor. Last Saturday she again evened up her schedule by defeating Wofford 12-0. This made her win four of
the eight games played; the one lost being State, Carolina, William and Mary, and Wake Forest. Carolina could do nothing
with their line, winning by two field goals. Nor could the Tar Heels move the forwards on Richardson field within
the Red and Black ten-yard line.

Last week Mrs. Fleagle gave a party for the ladies of Davidson whose birthdays fall in November. Her guests were
Miss Mary Richards, Mrs. C. S. Goodrum, Miss Florence Barnes, and Mrs. Porter.

Cross Country Team to Run Against Baptists

A cross-country run has been arranged for December 6th between the Davidson and Wake Forest cinder teams. The run will
be one of three miles and will take place in Wake Forest. The run so that when practice begins in
earnest the long weeks of loosening up stiff muscles will be eliminated and real work begun at once.

TRAINING CLASS MAKES STUDY OF ADVERTISING

The C. E. Training Class held one of the most interesting and unique programs of the year on last Sunday.
The subject of the meeting was The Advertising of Christian Endeavor. The class was divided into three parts, each part
forming the side of a triangle, and each phase of the program was presented in three parts. Pritchett led the
meeting. Three songs were followed by prayers by Steele, Rose and Hodgkin. Then three scripture lessons on subjects each beginning
with the letter “P” followed, given by Phillips, Davis and Purdy. The subjects were Praise, Prayer, and Power. The third
or last part of the program was made up of three short talks. Poole’s was on The Why and How
of C. E. Publicity. Milton, who spoke on Agents for Christ, made some thought-inspiring suggestions. In Various Ways of Advertising
C. E., J. Garrison told of several attractive and striking ways of advertising Christian Endeavor.

Hart Schaffner & Marx

Young Men Tell Us We’ve Scored A Bullseye

There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s
vigor, life, ZIP in them.

Mellon’s

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
