THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1924

WILDCAT SCHEDULE 1924

At Davidson 14, Elon 0.
At Asheville 15, Presbyterian 3.
At Winston-Salem 7, Richmond 0.
At Davidson 7, Wofford 0.
At Davidson 45, Lenoir 0.
At Columbia, S. C. 0, Furman 6.
At Pinehurst 10, N. C. State 10.
At Charlotte 7, Clemson 0.
At Davidson ? Carolina ?
At Durham ? Trinity ?

WILDCATS SMEAR TIGERS
(Continued from page 1)

mentor took Baker out of the game—it was an ovation that few linesmen will ever get. It was appreciation for
the best tackle’s game that has been seen on Wearn Field since the days of Hammett. Jim Hendrix scored the
only touchdown of the game, in the second quarter, when he raced 20 yards to the Clemson goal line on
a perfect pass from Sappenfield, after bringing the ball by himself from mid-field to the Tiger 20-yard line.

The game started off rather close for Davidson, who fumbled for a 12-yard loss deep in Red and Black territory.
Hunt punted out to the 30-yard line and the Clemson team got off with a pass, Stewart to Harmon, which
placed the ball on the Davidson 15-yard line. Four slashing drives were held to less than the required yardage as
the Davidson line dug into the Tiger offense. Never again did the South Carolina team threaten the Wildcat goal line.
Soon after, Hunt got off for two great off-tackle drives of over 15 yards each. However, Clemson held. Wells started
the second quarter with a 12-yard drive off tackle and Black and Hunt made another first down. Then Hendrix went
in. The cheering stands little knew that it would be his fast work that would later bring victory to the
Wildcats. With the aid of Black, he made a first down, but was forced to attempt a place-kick which went
wild.

Davidson got the ball on Clemson’s 48-yard line when Hendrix opened up on an off-tackle slant that netted five yards
and then repeated around left end for 12 more. In two plays, he and Hunt gained five yards, placing the
ball on the 20-yard line. Then came the scoring pass. In the last quarter, Jim came near scoring another touchdown
as he sidestepped across the width of the field for 20 yards past all but the safety man, who forced
him out-of-bounds on the Clemson five-yard line. A stubborn defense prevented scoring.

The work of Sappenfield as he calmly directed the attack of the Younger-Tilson machine, together with his repeated returns of
punts when apparently covered by the Tiger ends, was a great factor in victory. The detailed account of the game
follows:

First Quarter
Harmon for Clemson kicked off over the Davidson goal line. Davidson was forced to punt, Clemson getting the ball on
Davidson’s 30-yard line. After gaining but two yards in three plays, a pass, Stewart to Harmon, netted 15 yards and
first down. Davidson’s line held and the ball went over on the six-yard line. Hunt punted 40 yards. After being
held, Clemson attempted a drop-kick, Sappenfield recovering on Davidson's 10-yard line. Hunt punted 45 yards, Stewart returning to Davidson's 33-yard
line. Davidson forced Clemson to punt on the 20-yard line. Hunt slipped off right tackle for 15 yards and first
down. After Black gained three through center, Hunt went off tackle for 20 yards. A pass failed. After Davidson had
lost five yards, Hunt punted to Clemson’s 24-yard line. Baker threw Harmon for a five-yard loss and Sappenfield returned Clemson's
punt 10 yards to Davidson's 40-yard line. Score: Davidson 0, Clemson 0. First downs: Davidson 3, Clemson 1.

Second Quarter
Wells drove off tackle for 12 yards. Black hit Clemson tackle for six more. After Hunt had gained two, Black
made another first (Continued on page 10)

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
SODA :: CIGARS
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS
AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

NONE TOO SMALL
We Want Your Account
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE
Regardless of Its Size
W. J. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

Freshman Class Makes Records in Activities
Seniors Also Establishing Record in Class Standard—Are Averaging Ninety

So far this year there has been established a new record for a Freshman class. Up until this time there
has been no necessity of a Freshman being withdrawn from school on account of hazing and no complaints from parents
have been filed. This is a remarkable record as in all preceding years there has been some form of hazing
reported and several students have been forced to withdraw from college for participating in it. As a matter of fact,
there have been only a few Freshmen who have withdrawn from college for any reasons. The few that have withdrawn
were forced to do so on account of ill health or have done so upon their parents’ request.Thus the number
of college students that were enrolled still the six hundred mark. The Freshman class seems to be well started towards
setting new records this year. Their psychological test average this year was higher than ever before, and they have the
distinction of having the member who shares honors with a student at Seattle, Wash. for having made the highest college
psychological test grade in the United States. Then the class, living up to what would be expected of them after
making such good on the test, have made better grades on their class work than any class before them. According
to the grades, the Freshman and Senior both setting a new record on their class grades so far this year,
averaged well over the passing mark for Freshman, which is unusual. The Seniors, almost without exception, have thus far this
year averaged between ninety and a hundred on their work. This remarkable record is fair to continue through the rest
of the year.

COL. THOMAS DIXON
(Continued from page 1)

The general theme of the lecture was Building a Greater America. The lecture opened with a description of Le Pantheon
de la Guerre in Paris and passed rapidly on describing the conditions in Europe up until America’s entrance into the
war. “I believe that future historians will write that the darkest hour in American history was July, 1917,” said the
Colonel as he introduced a series of events that happened soon after America’s entrance; among which were the sinking of
the transport Saratoga, the landing of the First Division in France, and the Battle of Cantigny, where American soldiers answered
forever the question, “Will American soldiers fight?” In this battle, one division alone drove back six divisions of Germans after
six counterattacks. The closing theme was the building of a greater American civilization with peace as its foundation, an everlasting,
enduring peace that will help America carry out the ideals of her forefathers.

RED ANDERSON
He filled the shoes of Laird to perfection against the heavy Clemson forwards Saturday.

POPSY HUNT
It was his slashing off-tackle plays that started the Davidson offense.

Colonel Dixon was warm in his praise of North Carolina and especially of Mecklenburg County and Davidson College. He said
that because of the historic significance of Mecklenburg County, he regarded his visit as an honor and a privilege.

Independence
McAlister Carson, Manager

Boys make Fred’s Recreation Hall modernly equipped and morally conducted.

BILLIARD PARLOR
205 West Trade Street (Upstairs)

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs, and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored. Write
or see Insurance Department. Phone 3940.

TAR HEEL SCHEDULE 1924
At Wake Forest 6, Wake Forest 7.
At New Haven 0, Yale 27.
At Durham 6, Trinity 0.
At Raleigh 10, N. C. State 0.
At Chapel Hill 0, Maryland 6.
At Chapel Hill 7, S. C. 10.
At Chapel Hill 3, V. M. I. 0.
At Davidson ? Davidson ?
At Charlottesville ? Virginia ?

THE GREENSBORO COLLEGE GLEE CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

They appear this year. The personnel of the club includes a chorus of more than 20 beautiful voices, a number
of versatile soloists, a novel jazz orchestra, and a large and talented string band. Special numbers have been arranged for
the Davidson performance, it is understood, and the program will be especially entertaining to the students. With more than 20
vivacious young ladies of extraordinary talent appearing before the Davidson students at one and the same time, the evening's performance
is certain not to lack interest. Tickets will go on sale on the Monday preceding the performance, and admission prices
will range from 50 cents to $1.00.

Dr. and Mrs. Gordon, of Roanoke, Va., parents of Bob Gordon, are visiting their daughter, Mrs. H. B. Elliott. Dr.
and Mrs. Martin are away on a visit to Mr. and Mrs. Edward Williamson, of Fayetteville, in Charlotte.

A Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE

Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two-piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium, and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money
