THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

Get one before you leave school: “The LIFE OF WOODROW WILSON” By Josephus Daniels | See J. D. Laws, 204 Watts

VAUDEVILLE ; MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES ALHAMBRA THEATRE The Merriest Place in Charlotte

SORE MUSCLES Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief. VICKS VAPORUB Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank Charlotte, N. C. 4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows 221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S College Barbers—Let Us Prove It BARBER SHOP

Charlotte Transfer Company PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

He—"We've got a billy goat that hasn't any nose.” She—"Then how does he smell?” He—"Terrible.”

“Why are you mailing all those empty envelopes?” “I'm cutting classes in a correspondence school.”

Hillhouse—"I got four cuts today.” Regen—"What! Four cuts in one day?” Hillhouse—"Yeah, I shaved.”

Waiter (at Thompson’s)—"Milk or water?” Summers—"Don't tell me, and see if I can guess.”

Cal Young—"When I was a boy the doctor said that if I didn’t stop smoking I'd be feeble-minded.” Milhous—"Well, why didn’t you stop?”

Lee McLean—"Do you think it would be foolish for me to marry a girl who was my intellectual inferior?” Ted Jones—"More than foolish—impossible.”

Queens—"How does Dick Littlejohn make love?” Winthrop—"Well, I would define it as unskilled labor.”

Prof. (on history class)—"Why did Washington cross the Delaware?” Arbuthnot—"For the same reason that the chicken crossed the road. You don't catch me with no riddle.”

News item—Two bold robbers entered White Drug Co. the other day and attempted to rob several students who were there. It is reported that Skit and Irving drove the bandits away in a fit of jealousy.

Ham—"Those two girls bet a kiss about something.” Eggs—"What is it to you?” Ham—"I hold the stakes.”

The dumbest girl we know of is the one who thought they cooled an auto by stripping its gears.

“How did you get that black eye?” “My girl's dad came into the parlor the other evening when we were dancing and he is deaf and could not hear the victrola.”

She—"How did you enjoy your ocean voyage?” He—"Dunno, I made the trip by rail.”

Jim Patton—"You looked so absent-minded when I spoke to you this morning.” Tom Harrow—"I was wrapped up in thought.” Jim—"It's a wonder you didn't catch cold.”

Stude—"I'm working my way through college by writing.” Stew'd—"What kind of writing?” Stude—"Writing home.”

The race for the ugly man honor is getting closer every week. Last week “Snaggle-Tooth” McCrary had the gap in his mouth filled up which slightly improved his appearance, with the result that all of his supporters have swung their votes to “Dapper Dan” Keels. McCrary is thus eliminated from the race which is to be regretted as he certainly deserves a chance at the prize. He even voted for himself three times so confident was he of his right to be called “Davidson's Ugliest Man.” With McCrary withdrawn, Keels now leads the field with 118 votes. Dick McMillan cracked another mirror last week and as a result has jumped into second place with 97 votes. He is closely pursued by Nappy Davis with 90 and “Skit” McConnell’s protege Irvin with 80 votes. Johnson is fourth.

A young man with a pretty but notoriously flirtatious fiancée wrote to a supposed rival: “I've been told that you were seen kissing my girl. Come to my office at 11:00 a.m. Friday, and be prepared to give an explanation of your conduct.” The rival wrote back: “I have received a copy of your circular letter and will be present at the meeting.”

“Your little brother saw me kiss you. What can I do to get him to keep the secret?” She—"Usually they give him five dollars.”

Professor—"What was the poet describing when he said they were ‘All loud, all learned, and all drunk’?” Stewde—"Sam Summers Speaking.”

Junior McCain’s weekly song hit for the week ending May 3rd, “Photographing Papa Don’t You Try to Tintype Me.”

CAROLINA CONCERT CLUB (Continued from page 1) Junior Speaking, and is one of Charlotte’s most gifted concert singers. The numbers on the program will be so arranged as to appeal to the tastes of all music lovers, ranging from the best opera choruses to negro spirituals.

GUILFORD’S of PHILADELPHIA Showing Complete Line of Suits at PARLOR OF WEST Wednesday, May 7thClothing and Haberdashery | For the College Man | | JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep. of | Grey Flannel Trousers

KNIGHTS OF THE ROAD HIT BYWAYS FOR EASTER JOYS
(Continued from page 1)

It must be said in fairness to the general public, that they did not come back as fast as they went. Blackie Rayburn and Fred Smith, bummers par excellence, made it six days in a row and clipped off 600 miles in the direction of Knoxville and return. Wearing U.S. packs on their backs, these two Tennessee lads jaunted back to their native heath via Asheville, spending three days on the road going and two days on the return trip. They tell of sleeping ‘neath the stars and living off bread crusts in order to make fast time. A pleasant time was spent in Knoxville and on a fast return trip through the Chimney Rock country.

Mickey McAlpine, Chick Monk motored through the country with Mr. and Mrs. Hengeveld and little Virginia Hengeveld. They report a fine trip through the country and on to Waycross, Ga., where the tall timber grows. The two boys and Dutch came back in the car, Mrs. Hengeveld remaining in Waycross.

Nine fellows craving greater heights turned their faces toward the Land of the Sky. Henry Martyn White, after hoboing to Raleigh, went to Spruce Pine, and then hiked up Mt. Mitchell, and down to Black Mountain, a distance of 360 miles, in 12 hours. Henry Martyn reported that the sun set as usual when he was on Mt. Mitchell.

Perrin Hudgins, L. C. R. Morrow, J. C. McJunkin, J. P. Gladney, Shorty Paul Patterson, and Jim Appleby all bummed rides to Montreat, going in pairs, as written. Perrin and Deck spent a night in Morganton. No! Not in the asylum, as might be expected, Deck, Guy Love, but instead they reported a fine time. Yes, “Mire” was involved. Shorty and Gladney caught a ride from near Statesville to Black Mountain, and reached Montreat in time to open up Loveland, to which all the Davidson fellows were extended an invitation to make as their headquarters for various mountain hikes.

Thursday, Hudgins, Deck, Morrow, and Gladney hiked Mt. Mitchell. The weather was bad, cold and rainy, but they said the trip was worth it. Friday, Patterson and Appleby hiked up Mitchell. The thermometer was seeking the lower regions that night, but it didn't prevent the trip from being enjoyed.

Monday found various groups of tramps of like characters straggling back to Davidson, all enthusiastic over the life of a hobo, and the call of the open road.

WILDCAT CINDER PATH MEN
(Continued from page 1)

More names were added to the list recently: Parker for the 440 and McMillan for the broad jump. In the V. M. I. meet on April 26th, several men showed up well although the score seems to point differently. In the javelin throw, Gracy won first place and Streibach tied for first place in the pole vault; in the high jump, Gracey tied for second place; in the mile, McConnell won first place; Anderson came second; Williford came second in the two-mile event; Gracey won first place in the 120 high hurdles; McBryde won second in the 880. It is to be expected that these men can do as much or more tomorrow and Gracey will have no small part in the results.

Carolina seems to have the strongest team in the state, having doubled the score in a meet with State last Saturday. Hopes are entertained for the same results in track as was the outcome in the ball game held in Gastonia; Davidson frocking Carolina to the tune of 7 and 6.

WRIGLEY'S after every meal

Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that overeaten feeling and acid mouth. Its l-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving for sweets. Wrigley’s is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides. Sealed in its Purity Package.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

Stationery and
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies and Toilet Articles