THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

Vice-president; Miss Julia Johnston, secretary and treasurer.

Town News

Mrs. J. M. Douglas informally entertained the Spinsters’ Sewing Club, in honor of Miss Mary Black and Miss Mary Richards last week.

Mrs. P. B. Fetzer, of Concord, the mother of the Fetzer brothers of Carolina, was the guest of the Misses Lizzie and Mary Young last week.

Invitations have been received in Davidson for the marriage of Mr. Wood's sister, of Charlottesville, Va., to Mr. Homer Holt, of Lewisburg, W. Va. The wedding takes place on the 21st of March.

Mrs. Fred K. Fleagle gave an afternoon tea last week in honor of several visiting ladies.

Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood were hosts at a Mah Jong party last Friday evening, honoring Mrs. Wood's sister, Miss Mary Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va.

Dr. Porter Vinson, of Rochester, Minn., a member of the Mayo brothers’ clinic, is spending a few days with his mother, Mrs. W. D. Vinson.

Miss Kitty Martin entertained a few friends Friday evening at a Mah Jong party.

Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Johnstone, of Cavala, Greece, will land in New York this week, and will come immediately to Davidson, where they will visit his mother, Mrs. James H. Johnstone.

Dr. Lingle makes an address on Friday of this week before the Society of Modern Languages in Raleigh.

Misses Sally and Mary Lafferty have reopened their home on N. Main Street. They have been spending the winter in Charlotte with their nephew, Dr. R. H. Lafferty.

Mrs. Malcolm Rumple spent several days at a Charlotte hospital, undergoing a slight operation.

Mrs. Walter Henderson will entertain the Young Matrons’ Club Friday afternoon.

On Wednesday afternoon Mrs. J. M. Douglas entertained in honor of Miss Mary Black and Miss Mary Richards, who returned from abroad last week.

Miss Lera Hobbs, of Mitchell College, spent last weekend at home.

Miss Kate Douglas spent the weekend with her niece Miss Grace James, who is teaching near Brevard.

Skit McConnell has been under the influence of influenza for several days.

Miss Sarah Withers and Miss Mary Grace Brown spent the weekend in Greensboro with Mrs. Douglas Brown.

All of the High School children have been enjoying their spring vacation.

Miss Frances Worth, a former resident of Davidson, sails for Belgium and Africa on March 5th, where she will take up missionary work.

Mrs. J. M. Douglas entertained the elderly ladies of the town last Tuesday evening.

Mrs. J. D. McDowell and son, of York, S.C., spent part of Wednesday afternoon with Mrs. C. M. Richards.

At a business meeting of the Book Lovers’ Club, held at the home of Mrs. Lingle, officers were elected for the coming year. The new officers are Miss Lizzie Young, president; Mrs. Hamilton, vice-president; Miss Julia Johnston, secretary and treasurer.

C. E. DEPUTATION MAKES VISIT TO FAYETTEVILLE

The Class Christian Endeavor Training has been active during the past few weeks in its work and is doing much for the societies both here and in surrounding towns. The most important recent work was the sending of a deputation consisting of A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr. and W. E. Milton to Fayetteville. They conducted meetings there under the auspices of the First Presbyterian Church during the weekend of February 23-24. Saturday night the members of the deputation team were guests of honor at a banquet given by the invited societies. The banquet was well attended and both Hollingsworth and Milton were asked to make short talks regarding the work they represented.

W. A. Gamble, Jr., '23, founder of the Davidson C. E. Training Class, and now a student at Columbia Theological Seminary, was on the hill Sunday. He made a talk to the members of the class, praising them for the work done in the past and encouraging them to keep it up.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. "ON THE SQUARE" CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Grayson Satisfies — You Save

Grayson Clothes for Gentlemen will be shown at the West Dormitory March 14th and 15th. Your inspection is invited.

Representative -- Wm. C. Cohen

New Spring Styles in Conservative College Models. Exclusive Fabrics --- Prices Pleasantly Surprising!

GRAYSON UNIVERSITY PLACE AT 14th STREET NEW YORK, N. Y.

Grayson Satisfies — You Save

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Who Knows?

Peter Stuart Ney, the mysterious Frenchman who was the originator of the Davidson College Seal, was believed by many to have been no less a personage than the celebrated Marshal Ney.

New Schedule Has Gone Into Effect

In order to leave the afternoon free for baseball and other sports, drill has been transferred to the morning, all classes being moved down one hour. Monday will remain as it is now, but the other days of the week will be scheduled as follows: 7:00 a.m., First Bell; 7:10, Rising Bell; 7:20, Breakfast Bell; 7:50, Chapel Bell; 8:15, First Call; 8:20, Assembly; 9:30, Classes, etc.

Not until 1857, when lamps were bought “suited for burning with camphire,” were eleven lamps used in the Society halls. In 1850 each member of the society was required to bring a candle with him to each society meeting.

Freshmen Lectures Started Last Week

The lectures for the Freshmen class were started last Wednesday morning. J. H. Miller, president of the student body, spoke to the Freshmen on the Constitution of the Student Body, on Self-Government and its Advantages, and on the Honor System. He added that the quiet, unassuming Freshman gains the respect of the upper classmen and has nothing to gain by self-assertion. Coach Fetzer, who was the main speaker, had for his subject, “Physical Exercises and Athletics.”

In 1856 the Eumeneans called on the Philanthropic Society to mourn with them the death of their honorary member, John C. Calhoun, whose departure arrived while struggling for the Southern rights.

The “Y" handbooks were issued first in 1902. The first Freshman reception was held in September, 1889, at the home of President Shearer. The Student Body was first organized as a unit in 1899-1900 and the Student Council came into being in 1910.

Tennis Given Impetus by “D” Being Awarded

A question long debated at Davidson was decided at a recent meeting of the Athletic Association when it was finally decided that “D" would hereafter be awarded in tennis. There will be only one letter awarded this year, this going to the champion in singles, but the chances are that letters will also be awarded in the future.in doubles later - The tournament will begin March 24th. The two elms directly in front of Chambers were planted by two students, each of whom was named John Thomas Allison. They met for the first time in a classroom at Davidson, and on a comparison of information, they found that they had been born the same month, were the same height, weighed the same, and entered the same class in college. They agreed upon the coveted same.

Junior Oratorical exercises prove an enjoyable occasion. Notwithstanding the torrential rain, the concert and frat reception were a complete success. The Glee Club rendered the first program of the season. The Davidson College Highway used to be called the Red Sea by the students.

The first recorded class gift was given by the class of 1906, which rebuilt the dam of “Lake Wiley,” and among other improvements, built a notable toboggan slide.

(An Ad) - Germany does not keep us from delivering the best fresh meat. Phone orders solicited — White's Market.

DAVIDSON WRESTLERS LOSE ON CAR.-VA. TRIP

(Two editorials) - If some enterprising, self-supporting college boy would set up an efficient, reasonable laundry for the student body and make it independent of washerwomen, he would perform an act of distinguished service to the college. Surely there is enough talent in the student body to get up a band. We're one of the very few R.O.T.C. units that haven't one. What's the trouble?

Of the 1,004 women who fainted last year, 1,001 fell into the arms of men, two fell on the floor, and the other one into a kitchen sink.

The Wildcat grapplers returned last Monday night from an unsuccessful trip to Chapel Hill and into Virginia. On Friday night, March 1st, the Wildcats lost to the Carolina mat men by a score of 13 to 3, Carolina winning three matches and Davidson winning one, while three resulted in draws. The results of the meet are as follows:

115 pounds — Selser, of Davidson, won from Schwartz, of Carolina, on a decision bout.
125 pounds — Cromartie, Davidson, and Hagan, Carolina, fought to a draw.
135 pounds — Mathewson, Carolina, threw W. D. Cox, Davidson, in four minutes and 40 seconds.
145 pounds — Z. Waters, of Carolina, threw P. Cox, Davidson, in seven minutes, ten seconds.
158 pounds — S. Waters, Carolina, and Patterson, Davidson, fought to a draw.
175 pounds — Poindexter, Carolina, won from Vance, Davidson, on a decision bout.
Unlimited Weight — Burke, Carolina, and Lindamood, Davidson, wrestled to a draw.

The following morning, the Wildcats journeyed on into Virginia to try their hand on the V.M.I. mat men. Here they met another defeat but not without putting up some good fights. They lost to V.M.I. by a score of 21 to 0. The features of the meet were Captain Baird’s, V.M.I., victory by a fall in 25 seconds. This meet closed the second consecutive season that V.M.I. has not been defeated on the mat. Davidson earned two draws, but after these, the V.M.I. cadets won either by falls or time advantages. The results of the V.M.I. meet are as follows:

115 pounds — White, V.M.I., and Selser, Davidson, wrestled 10 minutes to a draw.
125 pounds — Chapman, V.M.I., and Cromartie, Davidson, fought to a draw.
135 pounds — Lowe, V.M.I., threw Cox, W. D., Davidson, in six minutes and seven seconds.
145 pounds — Captain Baird, V.M.I., threw Cox, P., Davidson, in 25 seconds.
158 pounds — Carlton, V.M.I., won a decision over Patterson, Davidson, time advantage 9-31.
175 pounds — Denton, V.M.I., won a decision on time over Vance, Davidson.

The street paving is expected to be resumed at an early date.

“Nothing’s too good for my boy!” What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything college men wear — real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring, English, and American fabrics — coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats — rainproof. Soft hats, caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get-up. Prices moderate. MELLON’S

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S.C.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT
Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St, CHARLOTTE, N.C.

CALENDAR

Thurs., March 13, 7:00 p.m. — Soph. Banquet, Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.
7:00 p.m. — Philanthropic Literary Society.
Eumenean Literary Society.

Sat., March 15, 7:30 p.m. — Movies: The Ete ity CI
Sun., March 16, 9:45 a.m. — Sunday School.
11:00 a.m. — Morning Service.
2:00 p.m. — Ministerial Band.
6:15 p.m. — Y.M.C.A. Vespers.
7:00 p.m. — Volunteer Band.

Mon., March 17, 7:00 p.m. — Davidson Staff.
9:00 p.m. — Sigma Upsilon.

Tues., March 18, 7:00 p.m. — Pan-Hellenic Literary Society.
Metrophilian Literary Society.

Wed., March 19, 7:30 p.m. — Prayer Meeting.
9:30 p.m. — Bible Classes.

WHITE BUS LINE
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:00 11:00 1:30 6:00
Cornelius 8:15 11:15 1:45 6:15
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Leaves Statesville
A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:30 10:30 2:30 5:00
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Cornelius 9:05 11:00 3:05 5:30
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver