- months, THE DAVIDSONIAN Vol. XI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 7, 1924 No. 17 Twelve Thousand Pledges Put Campaign For Rebuilding Chambers Over the Top | Lockhart Announces Completion of | Campaign in Carolinas and | Georgia CONTRACT TO BE LET | South Wing of Chambers to be Rebuilt First—Architect Makes Plans The Davidson College campaign for $600,000 has been completed, and the contract for the building of the south wing of the new Chambers building will soon be given to the contractors. Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, who directed the campaign for the college at the request of the Committee of Christian Education of the Southern Presbyterian Church, has recently given out the results of this campaign which has been conducted in North Carolina and Georgia during the past 18 months. The total amount subscribed is $675,000, including $75,000 which was given by the General Education Board. The remaining $600,000 was subscribed approximately as follows: $110,000 by the people of Georgia; $100,000 by the citizens of Charlotte and Mecklenburg county; $125,000 by the alumni, and $265,000 by the people of North Carolina, of which $25,000 was subscribed by the faculty and student body of the college. The number of persons who signed subscriptions to the campaign exceeded 12,000. This large response to the appeal of the college authorities is a great tribute to Davidson College and is evidence of the high regard which the people of the Southern Presbyterian Church have for the college and what it stands for. The funds collected in the campaign will be used for two purposes, $200,000 will be added to the endowment fund and $400,000 (Continued on page 8) Y.M.C.A. Makes Plans For Spring Term Work Life Work Conference to be Held February 17-22—Deputations Planned The Life Work and Evangelistic Campaign which will begin Sunday, February 17th, and continue through the 22nd, will be conducted this year by Rev. Robert (“Bob”) King, an old Davidson man, who is now Synodical Evangelist for the Synod of Georgia. Plans are being made to have the Columbia Quartet. Mr. James Somerville, who has just returned from two years in Russia, will speak about the conditions of European students, at the Y. M. C. A. meeting next Sunday. Mr. Somerville is representing the World's Student Federation. Some idea of the condition of the students in Russia can be gained from the following extract from a letter: “Last winter Professors, as well as students in Russia, sold or bartered every saleable thing they possessed for food, clothing, lodging or firewood. There are hundreds of thousands of students who are bearing the discomforts of insufficient food, clothing that is a mass of rags, and unspeakable living conditions in order that they may go on with their education. When one student was asked, ‘Why Mirth Menu Will Be Served Girls Junior Speaking Next stop is Junior Speaking! With exams past, all eyes now turn forward to the next event of the year, really, to the event of the year. The committee, backed by the whole Junior class and every student who has ever experienced or heard of the joys of Junior Week, has just two more months to develop and put through the plans that have been outlined for the occasion. But the work is not for the committee only. The success of Speaking depends largely upon the presence of girls, and more females. So, “in writing, mention Junior Speaking.” If the girls are here, the Junior class guarantees that they will be entertained; that everybody will be happy and have the best time of their lives. Agreed! Of course there will be some athletic numbers on the program. There will be one, maybe two, between the baseball games Fresh and one of the best college freshman or prep school nines in the state. The athletic association is making plans to hold an inter-class track meet, which will be the first in the last four years. This will renew what used to be one of the brilliant events of the athletic year. The Junior committee is co-operating with the track authorities to make this event a whang! If your girl likes entertainment, let her look over this menu. The Dramatic Club is responsible for one night’s amusement, and the Dramatic Club is not in the habit of failing. It will be there in force. The Glee Club, now famous by its recent successes, has bid for the spotlight for one evening. 'Nough said. As for Junior Orations, an especial effort is being made this year for quality, rather than quantity of speakers. The best orators will be picked regardless of their literary society affiliations, and only the four best will be heard. They will be worth hearing. Now on Saturday night of the week will take place the event of events. The Junior class will then put on their feature spectacle: one that will rouse old Nero from his mausoleum, and make P. T. Barnum weep for joy. Seats will be reserved for the first few thousand. Besides these things the (Continued on page 7) Does she like music? WOODROW WILSON Davidson’s Most Distinguished Son Woodrow Wilson Always Friendly to Davidson Former President, Student at Davidson Half Century Ago ROOMED IN CHAMBERS Visited Alma Mater for Last Time in 1916 Woodrow Wilson, whose death February 3rd saddened the entire world, began his college career at Davidson, in the fall of 1873. A half-century ago, Thomas Wilson, as he was then known, went about his college duties, entering into every activity of college life. Early in October he joined the Eumenean Literary Society and spoke for the first time on the negative side of the debate, Resolved, That republicanism is a better form of government than a limited monarchy. During the remainder of the year Wilson took an active part in the work of the society, appearing on the program as an orator and debater, and also to read compositions. While at Davidson, Woodrow Wilson roomed on the first floor of the old Chambers building. Like the other students, he had his own woodpile, where he chopped and split his fuel for the winter months; he pumped his own water and cleaned his room. The tradition has grown up that he was suspended from college. This is due to the (Continued on page 5) Queen’s Prexy Is Vesper Speaker On Sunday Night Dr. W. H. Frazer, President of Queens College, was the speaker at the regular vesper service of the Y. M. C. A. Sunday, February 3rd. Mr. Williams, General Secretary of the “Y,” introduced Doctor Frazer as a man well known at Davidson and one always heartily welcomed both for those he represents and for the message he brings. His message this time was no exception to the high nature of those he is accustomed to bring. He dealt with the call of higher things, the call of the world and of humanity, which comes to every man and which must be correctly answered and heeded if that life is to count to the fullest. Using the illustration from David's life, when he wished for the water from the well at Bethlehem, he showed how this was the selfish call to the lower side of a man's nature. It was the selfish desire. And his men heeded his wishes and brought him the water, but David rose to his full height of manhood when he refused to drink the water, for it was “the blood of their lives,” but instead poured it out as an offering before his God. So it was that David reached took hold of those things which satisfy the soul-nature, that eternal part of a man.he used for the larger self, the better. To each of us come both calls. Which will we heed? “Use these if you wish yourself ministered to; use these others if you wish to minister to God and to the world in need and to the self you are going to become. Both ways are insistent and only the strong man, the man trusting in the power and might of God himself, can be sure of following that which is right.”

But ever to those who are trusting and following, there can be heard the still small voice, “the overtone of God,” calling everyone from the narrow to the broad, from the little to the large, from the selfish to the sincere way which brings life eternal. And blessed are those who heed.

Victor Brown led the singing and Mr. Williams introduced the speaker of the evening.

Davidson College Church Scene of Memorial Service In Honor of World’s Greatest Citizen

Members of College Faculty Pay Tribute to Wilson as Author Repudiated, Persecuted, Wilson Followed His Convictions to the End

The Sunday night service at the Presbyterian Church was a service in memory of ex-President Woodrow Wilson, who died just before noon that morning. Different speakers were called upon to give short talks upon different phases of the life of Mr. Wilson, though each one was to give just that phase of the life which appealed most strongly to him.

Dr. J. M. McConnell gave a brief survey of some of the characteristics of Woodrow Wilson. He was a man whom we shall remember as one of fight and determination. He was a man of faith striving to put Christianity into the actual life of the political world.

Prof. A. Currie pictured Woodrow Wilson as the man who pointed out to the world the way it had always wished to go. Then he was the torch-bearer who blazed new trails and climbed high pinnacles to give mankind a glimpse of a life beyond the stars which it might hope some day to attain.

Dr. J. W. MacConnell spoke of Wilson as the commander-in-chief of the U.S. Army, the organizer of the world’s thought, the executive and statesman—misunderstood, but ever trusting and following. He also pointed out the human side which brought so much criticism upon him. Though his faults were evident and his shortcomings many, he was a man to be remembered in spite of them and an American worthy of going down in history as a statesman who spent his life in struggle after better things.

President W. J. Martin, of Davidson College, closed the service with a short sketch of the life of this great American who was born in Staunton, Va., in 1856, the son of a Presbyterian minister. Later he went to Davidson College for a part of one term, then to Princeton, University of Virginia, and Johns Hopkins. He distinguished himself as President of Princeton, Governor of New Jersey, and as twice President of the United States. Finally, as a champion of the world organized for peace, he received his service stripes and in that struggle he gave up his life. It was as a man who could see far beyond the ordinary man’s vision and could direct a nation with a clever insight into its nature and mental bearing toward the war that Wilson is to be especially remembered.

The Rev. Mr. Foster, of the Methodist Church, spoke of Woodrow Wilson as the man of ideals, the man of vision, the man of dreams whom the world needed. Mr. Wilson believed in his dream and fought courageously to make them real and to him all honor is due for that fight.

Dr. C. R. Harding told of the religious nature of the man. He also pointed out the human side which brought so much criticism upon him. Though his faults were evident and his shortcomings many, he was a man to be remembered in spite of them and an American worthy of going down in history as a statesman who spent his life in struggle after better things.

President W. J. Martin, of Davidson College, closed the service with a short sketch of the life of this great American who was born in Staunton, Va., in 1856, the son of a Presbyterian minister. Later he went to Davidson College for a part of one term, then to Princeton, University of Virginia, and Johns Hopkins. He distinguished himself as President of Princeton, Governor of New Jersey, and as twice President of the United States. Finally, as a champion of the world organized for peace, he received his service stripes and in that struggle he gave up his life. It was as a man who could see far beyond the ordinary man’s vision and could direct a nation with a clever insight into its nature and mental bearing toward the war that Wilson is to be especially remembered.

The Rev. Mr. Foster, of the Methodist Church, spoke of Woodrow Wilson as the man of ideals, the man of vision, the man of dreams whom the world needed. Mr. Wilson believed in his dream and fought courageously to make them real and to him all honor is due for that fight.

Dr. C. R. Harding told of the religious nature of the man. He also pointed out the human side which brought so much criticism upon him. Though his faults were evident and his shortcomings many, he was a man to be remembered in spite of them and an American worthy of going down in history as a statesman who spent his life in struggle after better things.

Wildcat Quint Splits Pre-Exam Season; Opens Month With Brace of Victories

Tar Heel Quint Wins Decision Over Wildcats on Queen City Floor

BOGGS GUARDS WELL

Statesville, Belmont, and Guilford Fall Before Coach Younger’s Five

Splitting a brace of games just before exams began, winning from the Statesville Athletic Association and bowing to Carolina, the Wildcat quint opened up in their first two games after the exams, and defeated the Belmont American Legion and Guilford College.

Statesville Game

The Davidson Wildcats, with spirit thoroughly aroused by the defeat of three nights previous, ran up to Statesville on January 17th and brought home a scalp from the Athletic Association team of that city. The score was 36 to 14, leaving no doubt as to the superiority of the Red and Black quintet.

From the start there was no doubt in the minds of spectators as to what the outcome would be. Coach Monk's cohorts, by smooth teamwork and accurate goal shooting, got away to an early lead, and the first half ended with Davidson 10 points ahead. In the second frame it was easy going. The Wildcats had hit their stride, and the score went up by leaps and bounds. Statesville scored 4 points in this period, while Davidson rolled up 16 more.

Staley led the scoring for Davidson, looping the basket for 5 field goals, while Red Laird ran a close second with 3 field goals and 3 fouls, a total of 9 counters. “Sook” Boggs played airtight ball at guard, and got down the floor for 3 perfect shots, tying Laird’s score by the addition of 3 free goals.

Billy Sunday Will Speak Before Student Audience

Noted Evangelist to Preach in Presbyterian Church Friday

Preparations for the coming of Billy Sunday, world-famous evangelist, to Davidson on Friday morning, are complete, and college authorities, who invited Mr. Sunday to speak in Davidson, are confident that great benefits will be reaped from his address to the students and townspeople.

The widely known evangelist is about to complete a six weeks’ revival in Charlotte, and he readily accepted the invitation to speak to the students of Davidson College. During the several weeks that Mr. Sunday has been preaching in Charlotte he has attracted record-breaking crowds from all sections of the state. During the early part of his revival services, many students regularly attended his meetings; but the inconvenience and lack of transportation to Charlotte has made it practically impossible for Davidson men to hear him recently.

Mr. Sunday will speak in the Davidson Presbyterian Church, and, since his visit is primarily in acceptance of the college's invitation, special reservations have been made for seating the hundreds of students who will hear him. Only 350 townspeople will be seated at the meeting, and cards for admission will be distributed at Henderson's Jewelry Store on Friday morning.

The exact text of Mr. Sunday’s address to the students has not been announced, but his sermon is sure to be one full of fire and interest. Regular class work will be dispensed with during the meeting, and all students will be expected to attend the services. Davidson is especially fortunate in securing Mr. Sunday to speak, as invitations from various organizations have been extended to him during his stay in Charlotte.