THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

deat-with facts-as has every newspaper writer, but he must deal with personal opinion as well. Even in his facts the writer is handicapped. The reporter who covers a murder case presents the facts to the public, and the public is satisfied; they did not see the murder, and they are perfectly willing to accept the newspaper version of the affair. Not so in the case of the sport writer who tells the story of a football game. Thousands saw the contest, and in the mind of each a picture of the game is formed. Some incident of the contest which seemed to some to have been the outstanding play may pass unnoticed in the news story; a player may not have received the mention which a group of the spectators think he deserved; the play of the teams in general may have been sized up wrongly in the views of some. It is all the fault of the sporting editor. Obviously, it is impossible to satisfy all. There will always be some to find fault and claim that the story is the product of a biased mind. And from followers of sport on every side the sporting editor is criticized, sometimes justly and sometimes unjustly. However, the criticism of the facts as seen in the mind of the editor is not nearly so frequent as the criticism of his personal views as expressed in a column devoted to that purpose.

During the fall months the colleges come into the limelight on the sporting pages all over the nation. It is the season of seasons for amateur sport, for football is essentially a sport of amateurs. The dope on the strength of teams forms a large share of the sporting news. In past seasons the Davidson students have felt that papers, which naturally should have been friendly to them, were prejudiced against them and were not giving them their just deserts, either in the matter of write-ups or comments. This fall the attitude of Charlotte has seemingly changed. This attitude of good will toward Davidson is reflected in the sporting departments of the Charlotte Observer, and the write-ups and comments on the fighting Wildcats are appreciated to the fullest by the members of the student body. Criticism of write-ups has for many years been a fruitful topic of discussion on the campus, but the attitude of the Observer this season has changed the criticism into appreciation. After several unsuccessful seasons the Wildcats are staging a comeback which is gaining recognition throughout the Carolinas. With the lightest line in the state by many pounds, by sheer precision of teamwork they have held their own against all the beef and brawn which has opposed them. We thank the Observer for their recognition of the Red and Black machine.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
E. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher
F. A. LAKE........Associate Editor
B. A. PRITCHETT........Associate Editor
H. M. WESLEY........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS........Alumni Editor
L. D. HARRIS........Athletic Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON........Circulation Manager
C. McSWAIN........Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER........Bookkeeper
J. B. GARRISON........Service Manager
H. P. YOUNG........Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
J. E. MOORE
M. APPLEBY
E. P. O'CONNOR
I. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
J. A. JONES
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. BROWN

THE UNIVERSITY AND DAVIDSON

Last Saturday the Carolina Tar Heels won from Davidson by the margin of two drop kicks in the final minutes of play, in one of the best battles ever staged between the two teams. It was the twenty-third game between the two schools and the sixteenth win for the Tar Heels. Of the other seven games, Davidson has won three and four ended in scoreless ties. The feeling of rivalry has always been intense between the University and Davidson, but it has never been tinged with any ill feeling of any type. The twenty-eight years which have passed since the first Carolina-Davidson battle have been marked throughout by cordial relations. Always fighting against odds, Davidson regards a victory over Carolina as the height of achievement and always plays her hardest against the Tar Heels.

In a letter published in Bailey Groome’s One Man’s Opinion on Sport Topics last Sunday, Davidson was paid one of the highest compliments which it has ever been her honor to receive. The letter from Mr. D. B. Smith, a Carolina alumnus, follows:

“To the Sports Editor of The Observer:

“I want to take this opportunity to commend the fine sportsmanlike spirit of the Davidson team, and Davidson student body. As a Carolina man I would have been terribly disappointed to see Carolina lose and as it turned out, we didn’t have much to crow over, but what did my heart good was to observe the generous, cordial and sportsmanlike treatment the Carolina team received on Richardson field. When Carolina was giving signals, the five or six hundred Davidson students, courteously, stopped their rooting so the Carolina players could hear the signals, and between the halves the Davidson students gathered in the field and gave cheer after cheer for Carolina. All in all, it constituted as fine an instance of courteous, generous treatment of our opponents as I have ever observed in any athletic contest.

“Here’s all good wishes for the further success of Davidson’s plucky fighting Wildcats.

(Signed) “D. B. Smith.”

In regard to the treatment of Davidson teams at Chapel Hill, the same thing may be said. Last year at Chapel Hill the Carolina rooters accorded the Davidson team the same courtesy, which has always marked relations between the schools. Until last year the home and home basis was adopted, and now the games will alternate between Davidson and Chapel Hill. With no school in the state are relations more cordially established than with Carolina, and the good feeling which has existed between Tar Heel and Wildcat is now at its height. Davidson will always regard the University as her most bitter rival—and her best friend.

RECOGNITION

No one man has to bear as much criticism in his work as the sporting editor of a daily newspaper. After due observation, we feel that the sweeping statement made above is true. For a sporting editor not only has to deal with facts as has every newspaper writer, but he must deal with personal opinion as well. Even in his facts the writer is handicapped. The reporter who covers a murder case presents the facts to the public, and the public is satisfied; they did not see the murder, and they are perfectly willing to accept the newspaper version of the affair. Not so in the case of the sport writer who tells the story of a football game. Thousands saw the contest, and in the mind of each a picture of the game is formed. Some incident of the contest which seemed to some to have been the outstanding play may pass unnoticed in the news story; a player may not have received the mention which a group of the spectators think he deserved; the play of the teams in general may have been sized up wrongly in the views of some. It is all the fault of the sporting editor. Obviously, it is impossible to satisfy all. There will always be some to find fault and claim that the story is the product of a biased mind. And from followers of sport on every side the sporting editor is criticized, sometimes justly and sometimes unjustly. However, the criticism of the facts as seen in the mind of the editor is not nearly so frequent as the criticism of his personal views as expressed in a column devoted to that purpose.

During the fall months the colleges come into the limelight on the sporting pages all over the nation. It is the season of seasons for amateur sport, for football is essentially a sport of amateurs. The dope on the strength of teams forms a large share of the sporting news. In past seasons the Davidson students have felt that papers, which naturally should have been friendly to them, were prejudiced against them and were not giving them their just deserts, either in the matter of write-ups or comments. This fall the attitude of Charlotte has seemingly changed. This attitude of good will toward Davidson is reflected in the sporting departments of the Charlotte Observer, and the write-ups and comments on the fighting Wildcats are appreciated to the fullest by the members of the student body. Criticism of write-ups has for many years been a fruitful topic of discussion on the campus, but the attitude of the Observer this season has changed the criticism into appreciation. After several unsuccessful seasons the Wildcats are staging a comeback which is gaining recognition throughout the Carolinas. With the lightest line in the state by many pounds, by sheer precision of teamwork they have held their own against all the beef and brawn which has opposed them. We thank the Observer for their recognition of the Red and Black machine.

With the College Editors

Chaff

THE TRUE COLLEGE MAN

Too much has been said by overzealous reformers throughout this country in regard to the college or university as a means of wasting time. The fair-minded person is willing to concede that there is a great deal of time and energy spent by the college man on outside activities. The value of the training and experience derived from the outside depends of course upon their nature. Such activities as debating, athletics, professional apprenticeship and the like are clearly beneficial to the person engaging in them. It is urged that the college man spends more of his precious time in social activities such as dances, card games, and girls than is good for him. But it must be remembered that the student who so spends his time at college is more than apt to act in the same way at home where even more latitude is permitted. The college is not to be blamed for the excess of the individual. On the other hand there is, at every college, a group of earnest workers who have come for the purpose of acquiring and assimilating knowledge. From the beginning in every institution of colleges, this group has been present, and despite the dolorous and dismal predictions of puerile pessimists this class of students has continued to increase. By the foregoing statements we do not mean to defend the type of students known as the “bookworm.” This peculiar specimen, commonly known as “human sponge,” because of his characteristic ability to soak up knowledge is not a representative of the true college man. The true college man is one who has had experience in all the many phases of activity present on the campus of his college or university. He acquires enough knowledge in the class-rooms to pass his examinations creditably; he mixes in

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

THINKING

A friend is one who thinks more about what he can give than what he can get. Who are your friends? What kind of a friend are you? The ability toWork is one of God’s greatest gifts to man. The man who gets the most out of life is the one who works. How busy are you? Are you busy with the things that count? Have you ever thought that no one ever had any more time than you have? Time waits for no man. Do you use all of it as it passes? A man who wastes his own time wastes his own life. The world makes way for a man who knows where he is going. Where are you aiming with your life? Think one minute about this question! Are you a slave of habit? Do habits of selfishness, laziness, and inefficiency dominate your life? Do you really think five minutes a day?

THE DRAMATIC CLUB

Since last Saturday night when the Dramatic Club presented its three one-act plays, the whole campus has been talking about their quality and the ability of the actors to play their parts. It was very noticeable that each of the players had been picked with care, and that the cast of characters fitted each member precisely. The last play, especially, was good, although all of them were exceptionally well-written and acted. The success of the club last Saturday night was due to the untiring efforts and work of Prof. E. J. Erwin, the faculty member of the club, and director of the plays. Under his leadership, the characters worked up their parts to perfection and acted with marked ability, which brought forth much favorable comment from all who were in the audience.

Social activities to a reasonable extent; he affiliates himself with clubs and societies to work to promote fellowship and the spirit of brotherhood without which college life is a dismal failure; and last but most important of all, the true college man has ideals of loyalty to his school—loyalty such as the Lethe of business life after graduation will not efface from his memory. Men like this are real assets to a college—The Florida Alligator.

BE A SPORT

The Open Forum heretofore has been characterized by so-called “mud-slinging articles” aimed at every institution on the Hill, from College Spirit (which the writer believes has grown better every day for the past three years) to our “mossback faculty” and shallow-brained “student body.” There are many things at Davidson which we are justly proud of; there are many things that we lack that we certainly need; yet there are some institutions, traditions, and habits cherished by many of our “leading men” which are, to an observer, very repulsive. I do not pose as a reformer to make Davidson a perfect college, but there is one habit practiced by many of our students which deserves to be mentioned. That is reading newspapers in chapel.

We are justified in assembling five or ten minutes before time for morning prayers to read our papers or to review our History or Political spots; and if one is not inclined to help in the singing he is at liberty to read during this part of the program without being reprimanded for it. However, I do believe that when men who pose as student body leaders insist upon reading the sport page while the prayer leader is reading the scripture lesson; when many of the Senior class who have been elected to positions of leadership and honor by the student body continue to read while some member of the faculty is praying—then a so-called “mud-slinging” article is entirely in order.

Let us consider it from a purely selfish point of view, by diverting our attention from all books and newspapers for fifteen minutes in the morning we are refreshed and enabled to concentrate better on class and study periods throughout the day even though we have no conscientious scruples against the chapel hour for study and recreation; we owe it to ourselves to refrain from the habit. Perhaps this would be unnoticed among just any student body but being prevalent among that of Davidson is most detestable. I do not wish to set our Alma Mater on a pinnacle and say, “Davidson men alone are pure, holy, and undefiled—they only are worthy of emulation.” But we all know and we are justly proud that Davidson men, whether on or off the Hill, are admired and thought of as being men of good character, pure habits, and above all—good sports. We always wish to give the other fellow a fair chance. This was shown in Saturday’s game when the students ceased to yell while Carolina was calling signals. However, when we read the paper while the profs lead in prayer we do not give him a fighting chance, neither do we display a true Davidson Spirit by setting a bad example for the other men who are to some extent interested in the chapel exercises. As consistent, rational thinking men, let us refrain from reading, or otherwise distasteful conduct during chapel. Even though we may not believe in the Bible which the professor reads or in the religious principles on which this college is established; even though we have no self-respect at all, it behooves each of us, as good sports, to have respect for the prof who leads morning prayers and for the students around us.

A.C. R.

MILKSOP’S FABLES—NO. 93786-R

“Halt! Who goes there?” cried M. Tullius Crassionius, the sentinel of the night, as he drew his toga closer around his quaking form and came down to port arms with his Smith and Go-eastern double-bladed hog sticker.

“A friend with a special message to the captain,” said the almost invisible object in the front of the bewildered and frightened rookie.

M. Tullius readjusted his hog-sticker with one hand, and with the other he firmly gripped the handle of his seventy-nine cent Gillette that he had purchased at Woolworth’s the evening before, and bellowed, “Advance to be recognized.” When the stranger had come within distance of being recognized, M. Tullius found out that it was his old friend and side-kick in the army of the Marne,—none other than Patrick O’Toole, who had been sent on a scouting trip by the captain in the vain hope of locating a machine gun nest. In an instant the two were talking together, and after lighting up cigarettes M. Tullius asked the giant Patrick what had become of his campaign hat and his grenade discharged. Pat replied that one of those wops in the enemy’s trenches had taken them away from him while he was taking a short nap, and that the dirty hound tried to take his javelin and spear and canteen, but that he chased the villain for about three parasangs and shot him in the leg with a poison arrow and got them back.

After a friendly chat of several minutes Pat left M. Tullius and went to headquarters to report to the captain, but had to wait outside because the captain was figuring out a plan with the aid of his staff as to the best way to transport the chariots and horsemen, together with the motor trucks and trench mortars and rock-hurling machines over closer to the enemy front so as to break up more of the enemy’s artillery fire. Pat knew that he had a long time to wait, so he sat down on a broken chariot wheel, pulled out the latest copy of the Ladies’ Home Journal, and began to read by the light of the campfire. In fingering through the pages he noticed that the ladies’ styles were changing somewhat, and that dresses would be worn much shorter in Rome that fall, and that bobbed hair would be in style the next spring. In another section of the magazine his eye caught the headlines of the men’s style section, and there he read that hip boots worn with swallow-tailed coats and straw hats would be the rage during the summer months. Unconsciously he was sitting with his right foot under him when he woke up to the realization that his foot under him was paining him terribly, and it was not until then that he remembered that he had forgotten to put a Blue-Jay corn plaster on it that morning. Suddenly a drop of rain fell on his cheek, and upon looking up he saw an enemy airplane above him. As he looked he saw a bomb fall from the plane, which at that time was directly over him. Jumping up, he made a break for the tent of H. Lucius Miconnis, his captain, but his efforts were in vain. The bomb hit the earth, exploded, killed him, and threw fragments of the fire and the Ladies’ Home Journal for a distance of 20 stadians.

Moral: Never wear celluloid socks; the friction is liable to be too great upon the feet, even if the strain upon the nerves is insufficient to annoy you.

A HOT TIME IN DON’S ROOM

Forty-five members of the student body ranging in size from Shorty Love to Stoutboy Montgomery were guests at a social entertainment which was held in Don Wharton’s suite some time ago. Attendants in the forms of Hebe McIlwaine and Tom Baker received the hats, coats and all other articles of value which they could get their hands upon and ushered the visitors into the guest room. A very good time was had by all. Games of jack straw and tiddledywinks were played until all members were fatigued and had to call time out. Refreshments were served by the Misses Sister Sloan and Mobile Goat Lewis. They consisted of ZuZu snaps and sassafras tea. The waitresses were beautifully attired in yellow overalls trimmed with barbed wire in order to keep all male cows from launching forth in fury upon the innocent and unguarded hash-slingers. After heaving Irish confetti for several hours the party was dismissed by Cop Johnston. The members were able to leave the infirmary and resume their studies this week. No visitors were allowed.

Prof.—Make use of the word “omen” in a sentence.
Stewed—Andy Gump went to the door and hollered “O, Min.”