THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1924

Open Forum
(Continued from page 4)

He adds insult to abuse by terming us a bunch of “cheap skates.” We passed the motion to raise the athletic fee without objection. Reasonable taxes are one thing, but because the harassed student, besieged on every hand by petty assessments, charges, and dues, attempts to object and question, why does that prove him a cheap skate? Calling the student body cheap skates is not only undeserved but slanderous. He closes with a fling of destructive criticism at college athletics. What kind of spirit is he displaying when he states that he does not intend to go to Davidson play Trinity this spring because we have no chance of winning? First cast out the mote from thy own eye, brother.

The writer stood near our friend during the Wake Forest game and noted that he was one of the leaders in the verbal assault on referee Bethel. Is not that a greater reflection on school spirit than imagining we have the best school in the South? The former makes one lose respect for himself. The latter, even if false, makes him love and admire the old college. Some dose must have rubbed the old cat's fur the wrong way lately. The idea in a college education is to train one to meet the problems of life. We have been challenged to face facts and after doing so to the best of our ability, can not say that the student body is losing time and money by remaining here. Nor are we shunning all thought of responsibility. There are sources of strength our friend has not held up to us. We are slowly growing into power to meet the problems of life; securing a little of this power here, a little there, some in the classroom, some on the athletic field, some in bull sessions, some in associations, and a wee mite by thinking. These problems, as said, are different for our individual members. Most of them will be other than the task of interpreting Contemporary Thought as Displayed in Modern Literature.

Signed: W. Z. Bradford.

SAVE THE FLOOR

The gymnasium is for the use of every man in school and should be kept in the best possible condition. There is no other place where the movies can be held, so the gym is utilized for this purpose. Saturday night five hundred people walk on the floor in street shoes. They scatter dirt all over the floor and leave the floor in a bad condition. Those who bring chairs are careless about the way they drag them over the floor, scratching the hardwood. This use of the gym on Saturday night is necessary, but as much care as is possible should be taken of the floor. During the week, no one in street shoes should walk on the floor. The gym floor is for the use of the students but not for those students who are not willing to cooperate with the coaches and see that certain rules in regard to care of the floor are observed. Let's keep off the floor when wearing street shoes!

DR. LINGLE TELLS OF PHI BETA KAPPA
(Continued from page 1)

have a high rating with other classifying agencies, and that are striving earnestly to keep their scholastic standards on a high plane.
Thos. W. Lingle.

DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS OF WAKE FOREST LAUDED

One of the most distinguished and the most useful of the thousands of graduates of Wake Forest College was the description which President W. L. Poteat used today in telling the Wake Forest student body of the death of President Hopgood, of Oxford College. Dr. Poteat briefly mentioned the great service Dr. Hopgood had done through his college. For the past 46 years, President Hopgood had been a member of the board of trustees of the college. He was a graduate of North Carolina.

RELIGION MUST BE MADE MORE REAL SAYS REV. BARNHARDT

Delivering the monthly university sermon here Sunday night, Rev. J. H. Barnhardt, pastor of the West Market Street Methodist Church, of Greensboro, said: “We have reached the point in our religious development where, if we are to advance at all satisfactorily, there must be a fuller—not necessarily a different—interpretation given to the Gospel than it has ever had before.” Dr. Barnhardt emphasized at the outset that he was not going to discuss the modernists or fundamentalists, that his views should not be construed as siding with or against either. The point he wanted to make, he declared, was that religion must be taken out of the sanctuaries of the church and made more of a practical, everyday, living force if it is to keep pace with our changing civilization.

In the midst of his sermon, the minister asked how many of the students present were members of churches in their home towns and called for a vote by hands. Virtually every hand went up. He then wanted to know how many had ever attended prayer meeting and again most of the hands went up. Dr. Barnhardt said that such a vote was most gratifying. The sermon was delivered in Gerrard Hall. The main floor was comfortably filled with students and there were a number in the balcony. President Chase was present—Charlotte Observer.

WILSON’S PEACE PLAN
(Continued from page 1)

kets to English trade to the exclusion of German trade. And last, measures of a temporary, but excessively important, nature: the complete restoration and reconstruction of the devastated portions of Belgium and France. “Why,” asks Professor Goevernitz, “was such a peace, a true peace without victors, not arrived at?”

When the war began, England blockaded Germany, forcing her to take up submarine warfare to safeguard her national existence. But England, strong in the strength of her merchant marine, was not materially harmed. The militaristic party in Germany felt that their only hope lay in unrestricted submarine warfare. The conservative party, representing the bulk of the nation, wished to keep the war on the sea within the limits laid down by Wilson, thus retaining the friendship of America. For a long time, neither of these policies prevailed.

In January 1917, Wilson advanced his plan for a peace without victors. This met with the instant approval of the conservative party and the working classes in Germany who were tired of war. It also was approved by many influential people both in France and England. But England's blockade was beginning to tell in Germany and, sensing their advantage, certain parties in England wished to strike a decisive blow and cripple Germany. Thus Wilson's plan was rejected. Then a few militarists in Germany, feeling that all hope was gone, and acting against the wishes of the German populace, persuaded a weak and willing emperor to sign a document inaugurating unrestricted submarine warfare. This caused the United States to enter the war and brought about Germany's disruption and defeat.

Lansing’s note to Germany at the time of the Armistice reasserted America’s championship of Wilson’s “Fourteen Points.” It was to these principles that Germany subscribed and consented to lay down her arms. It is because of the repudiation of this covenant in the Treaty of Versailles that Germany lays before the world her plea of injustice. When Wilson came to Paris, he came with the determination to put his peace plans...into action, and failed miserably. He failed because his ideals were too high to satisfy a selfish and materialistic people who desired power more than peace and wealth more than justice. Even though he saw in the Versailles Treaty the rejection of his ideals, he signed it as a stepping stone to that instrument for world peace, the League of Nations. In conclusion, Professor Goevernitz said that though defeated, Wilson still held tenaciously to his vision, saying that he would rather fail with a cause that would succeed than to succeed with a cause that would fail. And in these ideals of Wilson, he sees the only path to the prevention of war and to a peace in the true fraternity of nations.

Literary Societies

Eumenean

In accordance with the Open Forum Plan recently adopted by the literary societies, the bill that The Philippine Islands should be given immediate and complete independence was the topic of discussion at the recent meeting of the Eumeneans. It seems that there were certain Freshmen who had spent much time in the preparation. On account of the Wake Forest game, the time had to be cut short. The topic, however, was well covered in the discussion of Gladney, Ogden, and Williams. Hillhouse acted as critic. At the next meeting, the newly elected officers will be installed.

Metrophilian

Last Tuesday night, the Metrophilian Literary Society held a very lively and interesting meeting. The question for debate was: Resolved, That the United States should recognize Russia. The affirmative was upheld by E. T. Pullen and D. H. Stewart, while C. E. Hodgin and A. M. Hurd represented the negative. The decision was awarded to the negative. Following this, T. H. Hamilton delivered a spirited declamation. Favorable comments were then made by the reviewer. It was decided to cut the program short in order that the members would be able to go to hear the lecturer for the evening at Shearer Hall.

Philanthropic

At the last meeting of the Phi Literary Society, new officers were elected for the ensuing term. Those whose terms have just expired are: President, E. D. Brown, Jr.; vice-president, J. E. Holtzhauser; secretary, H. D. Burke; 1st critic, H. M. White; 2nd critic, M. S. Beall; 1st supervisor, H. Y. Alexander; 2nd supervisor, B. U. Ratchford. The newly elected officers are: President, Peay Story; vice-president, H. M. Wells; secretary, B. U. Ratchford; 1st critic, R. H. Brown; 2nd critic, J. R. Gudger; 1st supervisor, A. B. Williford; 2nd supervisor, W. H. Fitts. The meeting was cut short on account of the Wake Forest game.

Mr. Archie Freeman, of Crossnore, and the High Shoals basketball team were here from last Saturday until last Wednesday. They are traveling for the purpose of competing for the state championship. They have had a very successful season so far.

Mr. William Wright and his sister, Miss Adelaide, of Winston-Salem, were weekend guests of their aunt, Mrs. N. T. Smith. Mr. Wright is a violinist of some note, and, accompanied on the piano by his sister, he afforded a few guests an evening of rare enjoyment at the residence of Mrs. Smith on Saturday. Mr. Wright plays classical selections with skillful technique and interpretation which is worthy of an artist. He played in France during and immediately after the war, and he still has the same instrument which he used at that time. His hearers need only be lovers of good music to appreciate his performance. His is a talent which is not met with every day.

YOUR BODY’S 50,000 MILES OF PIPES

Inside the normal human body, there are more than 50,000 miles of tiny pipes. So says Professor Krogh of Copenhagen. They are the capillaries that carry the blood around to each muscle fiber and each tiny cell of the internal organs. Many times when you are ill, it is because these pipes are out of order. What you really need is an internal plumber. When you blush, it is because the pipes under the skin of your face have enlarged. When you are pale, it is because the pipes have shrunk.—Ex.

PRESIDENT DOUGHERTY SUFFERS A COLLAPSE

President B. B. Dougherty, of the Appalachian Training School, suffered a collapse at the post office in Boone on Friday evening. He would have fallen to the ground had not some men, who happened to be near, caught him. A physician who was present rendered immediate aid. News from his bedside is to the effect that he is getting along as well as could be expected.—Charlotte Observer.

SPARE TIME POSITIONS FOR STUDENTS

Greatest opportunity, “Life of Woodrow Wilson,” by Josephus Daniels, Secretary of the Navy, associate of former President. Big book, handsomely illustrated, low price. Best terms to representatives. Credit given. Send for free outfit at once. Make money fast. Authorship guarantee of authenticity. Universal House, College Department, 1406-08 South Tryon Street, Charlotte, N. C. Our College Representative will call.

VIOLINIST VISITS DAVIDSON

CORNELIUS-RIVER ROAD IS OPENED TO PUBLIC TRAVEL

Hard-surfacing of the Cornelius-River road has been completed and the highway is now open for traffic. It is four and a half miles in length, connecting with the Beatty’s Ford road a mile from the Catawba River. The final mile of the road to the river is sand-clay. A convict force is now working on dirt headers for the road. Six feet of dirt road is on either side of the hard surface. The Nalle Construction Company had the contract for the road. The cost was slightly less than $25,000 a mile, the total contract price being approximately $106,000. This is the last hard-surface project to be undertaken at this time by the county, lack of finances preventing any more work of the kind. If additional projects are undertaken, funds will have to be forthcoming, road officials say, pointing out that the $2,000,000 bond issue is practically exhausted. Lloyd, highway engineer, is of the opinion that the highways needing most attention and which should be hard-surfaced next are the road from the Lawyers road to Mint Hill, the Beatty’s Ford road, and the Sharon-Pineville road.—Charlotte Observer.

CAROLINA’S LEADING CLEANERS AND DYERS

“PARTICULAR WORK FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE”

AMERICAN DRY CLEANING CO.
1406-08 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, N. C.