THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

The Question Box

The Reel Stuff

Dear Uncle Bud,
I am afraid that my papa will be shocked when he gets my review grades. What can I do?
Tom Baker.

Dear Brassie,
You should have wired him.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle Buddie,
How would you personify Faith, Hope, and Charity?
P. Martin.

Dear Piggy,
Faith—Watt McCain when he believed it all when his girl called him up and said that she was sick and that she couldn’t come. He sent a box of flowers, too.
Hope—Okey Allison; he still believes that he'll get a girl.
Charity—Bill Murray; when in Charlotte, he suggested that he and his girl go home on the street car.
Your Unk.

Dear Question Box,
I'm going to learn how to be a good musician and compose popular songs like Watt McCain. I have a good start as I can play the bass drum by myself now. What songs would you suggest that I play in my orchestra?
Yours very truly,
David Woodrow Wilson.

Dear Boy,
I should suggest that you play some of the latest hits, such as “Oils Well That Ends Well,” by Dough-heny, or “Those Balloon Tires Have Us Up In the Air.” If these are too modernistic you might recourse to the old ballad entitled “Slap on the Paint,” by Sherwin Williams.
The Question Box.

Dear Uncle Bud,
I am now taking medicine: do you think that it a good course?
J. H. (Cash) Register.

Dear Hard Cash,
Yes. Hope you get well.
The Old Man.

Dear Uncle Bud,
For a long time I haven't been able to get me a girl and as a result, I am kinda timid around the Shebas. Don't you think that I need to get some kind of a nice sweet girl who will let me have my own way?
Samuel Summers.

Dear Sam,
What you need is to hook up with one of these nice responsible matrimonial bureaus out west. They will send you all kinds of literature and you can pick out a nice widow with two or three children, who has several thousand dollars and needs a nice trusting support to spend it for her. Half a loaf is better than no bread.
Uncle Bud

My Dear Unkie Buddie,
One cannot see this picture without being especially attracted by the scenic effects, and he is overwhelmed by “the grandeur that was Rome.”

Lionel Barrymore in "The Eternal City" Here Saturday

The attraction for this week is “The Eternal City,” with Barbara La Marr, Lionel Barrymore, Bert Lytell, Montagu Love, and Richard Bennett. The picture is presented by Samuel Goldwyn and is produced by First National. The above is truly an all-star cast and the director is George Fitzmaurice, who was for some years one of the successful producers for the Famous Players-Lasky Corporation. “The Eternal City” is an adaptation of the novel by Sir Hall Caine of the same name. It received unanimous praise from the New York newspaper reviewers on its opening at the Strand Theatre. The enthusiasm of the critics apparently knew no bounds in their praising of the rich beauty of the scenes and the masterful handling of the theme. This picture surpasses anything that has ever been produced with Rome as its locale.

As to the theme of the “Eternal City,” it is sufficient to say that it is an adaptation of the novel by Hall Caine. For those who have seen some of his other stories on the screen and those who have read some of his works know that he deals with life as it is, and yet is not devoid of a certain touch of the idealistic which takes away some of the sordidness of the realistic story. The “Eternal City” will be shown at the Y. M. C. A. Theatre Saturday night at 7:15. The admission will be 25 cents. The management requests that as many as possible of the students bring chairs.

My girl and I were out walking the other afternoon and she asked me if I wanted to see where she was vaccinated. I kinda blushed and said, “No.” Would it have been wrong if I had said “Yes?”
Dick Littlejohn.

Dear Dickie Bird:
If you had said, “Yes,” she would have showed you the hospital. You probably can’t tell about girls these days.
Uncle Budweiser.

SOME CHANGE NECESSARY IN CHRISTIAN RELIGION

The Ministerial Band met last Sunday afternoon with a large crowd in spite of the inclemency of the weather and the absence of many members in Charlotte. The president of the band, J. L. McLean, took charge of the meeting and introduced Dr. Robert F. Fitch who addressed the band. Dr. Fitch spoke of the difficulties and conditions that the minister would meet in his work at the present-day situation. “The Christian Religion,” he said, “is being questioned more today than ever before and some change will take place before long either for good or for evil.” He then took up the conditions and problems that would confront the minister in China. He said that a missionary must understand China before he can be of any good to the souls of that people. He explained the different religions of China and stated that although most of the religions there are of great harm to the people that some had been of benefit. He cited instances where heathen religions have done much for the home life of the Chinese. Chinese are loyal to their religion and he advised that missionaries start the church on Thursday.

QUIPS AND CRANKS
(Continued from page 1)

View Section, containing numerous half-tone photographs of the spots of beauty on the campus. The editorial staff, headed by D. J. Chipman, has worked faithfully on the project, and has gathered together an abundant supply of interesting data and material. O. K. Allison and his co-workers on the business staff have secured advertising matter that will pay a large portion of the cost of publication. Five hundred copies of the Annual will be made, and only those subscribers who signed subscription contracts will be able to purchase copies. The publication will be off the press early in May, and promises to be a great improvement over the Annuals of former years.

SOPHOMORES MAKE MERRY
(Continued from page 1)

A special section in the Imperial Theatre has been reserved for the college boys, and it is expected that everyone will attend. After all the festivities, the boys will come back in time for chapel. The classOfficers of the Sophomore class for this year are: T. S. Baker, president; C. F. Monk, vice-president; E. K. Regen, secretary-treasurer; C. F. Smith, poet; W. E. Milton, historian. For last year the officers were: N. E. Sappenfield, president; J. A. McMillan, vice-president; C. E. Houston, secretary-treasurer.

The Woman’s Auxiliary met in the afternoon at 4:00 o’clock. Besides the regular business meeting, they had short talks by Dr. Shewmake and Dr. Lingle. Their subject was “Books for the Library of Mitchell College.” 

Mr. Somerville, Davidson Alumnus, to Address “Y” Is Pastor of Presbyterian Church of Hillsville, Va. Rev. Walter G. Somerville, of Hillsville, Va., a former Davidson student, will speak at the “Y” service next Sunday night. Mr. Somerville is in charge of Home Mission work in Hillsville and in the surrounding country. His remarkable success there seems all the more unusual as several years ago that town was the scene of a great deal of trouble. Due to his excellent work there, several larger churches and communities have made him better offers, but he has refused to accept them. Mr. J. F. Johnston, one of the prominent laymen of the Southern Church, who was originally from Hillsville and who knew the need of a worker there, was responsible for his going to that town. While Mr. Somerville was in Davidson, he was, in addition to being president of the Y. M. C. A., one of the most popular men on the hill. At the beginning of the war, he enlisted as a private, but at the close of the war, he was a major. As he is still young, this was a remarkable achievement. He may also be remembered by some of the older men on the hill as being here with James Fowle several years ago to conduct the "Y" meeting, which was a great success. Mr. Somerville will arrive in Davidson on Thursday or Friday and will stay with Mr. Williams. He will be glad to talk with anyone interested in mission work at any time during his stay here. He understands Davidson problems and men and will also be glad to talk with any men on any special problems they may have to bring to him.

TEN CHARTER MEMBERS (Continued from page 1) 
tation of campus activities. Announcement is made that the club expects to occupy a hall in Louisiana as soon as the furnishing is completed. This club brings the total number of fraternities, local and national, to 10. Of this number, six nationals expect to have their national charters within a short time, while the remaining two locals are petitioning national organizations. The percentage of students of Davidson in fraternities will receive an impetus by this increase in the number of groups on the hill.

ALL-SOUTHERN PICK AND COACH MONK’S SELECTION 
At the close of the S. I. C. Basketball Tournament held recently in Atlanta, the All-Southern quintet was chosen by Morgan Blake and other Atlanta sport writers. The University of North Carolina, by virtue of their winning the tournament, was awarded three places upon the team. Alabama, the other finalist, was given one place. The Mississippi Aggies, champions of last year, were given the other place. The All-Southern selection is as follows: Cobb—N. C., R. F. Carmichael—N. C., L. F. Carter—Ala., C. McDonald—N. C., R. G. Gatehell—Miss. Aggies, L. G. This is the second time that Carmichael, McDonald, and Gatehell have made the All-Southern team. Carmichael and McDonald made it in 1922, when Carolina won the championship for the first time. Gatehell of the Mississippi Aggies, last year’s champions, has been put on the team for two years in succession. Cobb, of Carolina, was the high-point man of the tournament. Carmichael was the runner-up in the number of points scored. Cobb and Carmichael, Carolina's two forwards, because of their excellent floor work and their ability to score, were unanimous choices for the forward positions. Carter, Alabama, was the outstanding center of the tournament. He played his best game when Carolina met Alabama in the finals; besides leading his team in the number of points scored, he got the tip-off almost invariably. McDonald, of Carolina, was picked for the position of running guard because of his teamwork, his guarding, dribbling, and general value to the team. Gatehell, of the Mississippi Aggies, was generally conceded to be the best stationary guard of the tournament. Most of the points scored against the Aggies were from long shots and fouls. All in all, this is one of the best All-Southern teams which has ever been selected. Coach Younger's All-State team seems to be as representative as any that has been chosen. It is as follows: Cobb—N. C., R. F. J. G. Frasier—Guilford, L. F. Carmichael—N. C., C. McDonald—N. C., R. G. Soggs—Davidson, R. G.

SPANISH SUNDAY SCHOOL CLASS MARKS NEW FEATURE 
An interesting and instructive class is conducted entirely in Spanish by Doctor Fleagle each Sunday morning. The members have Spanish testaments, Spanish song books, and Spanish quarterlies. In the absence of Doctor Fleagle, the class last Sunday was led by Wallace Purdy. It was opened with the singing of several songs, followed by a prayer from one of the members. After the lesson had been read responsively, various talks were made on the daily Bible readings for the week, and the leader then closed with a general discussion of the lesson. The 12 or 15 students that make up this class are greatly interested in it and it has proved of benefit to them in their study of Spanish. It is hoped that in the future a more widespread interest will be shown in this class by those students interested in Spanish.

CAROLINA’S LEADING CLEANERS and DYERS 
“PARTICULAR WORK FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE” 
AMERICAN DRY CLEANING CO. 
1406-08 South Tryon Street 
CHARLOTTE, N. C. 
K. S. McALPIN College Representative

Make this a Fordson Year 
Have dependable Fordson Power ready when the fields are first ready for breaking. Through all the year, use its steady, versatile power for bigger profits on every farm task that requires power. To be sure of this, however, we must have your order now. Spring with its peak load of Fordson buying orders is almost here. Don’t wait. Order today. Make this a Fordson year. 
Ford Motor Company 
Detroit, Michigan