THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

Price Speaks at Older Boys’ Conference

Western North Carolina Young Men Meet Together at Statesville for Discussion

One of the most successful Older Boys’ Conferences ever held in Western North Carolina came to a close last Sunday in Statesville, after three days of inspiration for those in attendance. Davidson College was represented by Mr. Williams, who made the main address of the first day, and Harry Price, who was on Saturday’s program.

Probably the most enjoyable phase of the entire conference was the banquet session on Friday night. After each one had eaten to his heart’s content, and satisfaction reigned supreme, the good spirit of the convention was heightened by speeches of greeting from those of prominence in Statesville, all of which were responded to by a Hickory delegate. The main address was given by Mr. A. E. Roberts, International Y. M. C. A. Secretary, New York. Mr. Roberts spoke in a straightforward, unapologizing manner, placing before each one present his undeniable duty in this world.

Saturday morning was taken up by talks from Dr. Frazer of Queens College, and Harry Price of Davidson. After a few short talks, the evening session was adjourned for a few hours of recreation. Sunday School and Church occupied Sunday morning, followed by an afternoon address only to boys on Life, given by Mr. O. B. Hinnant, Y. M. C. A. Secretary, of Wilmington. After an evening sermon by Rev. Z. A. Barnhardt, the report of the resolutions committee was heard and each delegate left for his respective home feeling the three days were well-spent.

Freshmen at Lehigh University have organized a Y. M. C. A. cabinet intended exclusively for that class. The cabinet will function much the same as the senior cabinet and will carry out the several phases of the Y. M. C. A. activities as they relate to the interest of Freshmen.

Alaskan Explorer Will Tell of His Experiences

Has Had Thrilling Adventures Since His Last Trip to the Frozen Northland

The committee for the selection of speakers and lecturers who come here for the benefit of the students, faculty, and townspeople, has secured Mr. Edgar C. Raine to give a lecture in Shearer Hall Tuesday, December 2, at 7:15 p.m. Mr. Raine will lecture on “Alaska.” He will illustrate his points with interesting slides and views that will be both interesting and beneficial to his audience, as he knows his subject well, and will be able to give his audience a good idea of Alaska, her people, her life, and her interests. Among his slides will be views of experiences and illustrations of the thrilling life that one lives in the Northland.

The speaker probably knows more about his subject than most men who have been to Alaska, as he has spent a good deal of his life among the Alaskan people, and has traveled all over the country of the North. All who attend the meeting Tuesday night will be entertained to a high degree for over an hour and a half, and will find that it was well worth their time. There will be no admission charge.

THE TEAM COACH JONES HAS BUILT

After two defeats at the hands of the Trinity football eleven, the Wildcats will clash for the first time this afternoon in Durham. Coach Howard Jones has brought from Iowa a brand of collegiate sport that is new to North Carolina but with the Wildcats ending their greatest season in years with this game, the contest promises to be a close one.

Out of only a handful of letter men, Coach Jones has built a powerful team at Trinity. Statistics on the Trinity men follow:

Trinity
Name Position Wt
Pickett Center 185
Aldridge Right Guard 180
Gulley Left Guard 178
Grigg Right Tackle 175
Thompson Left Tackle 180
Simons Right End 160
Kimball Left End 160
Bullock Quarter 175
Caldwell Right Half 175
Finley Left Half 165
Lagerstadt Full 165
Porter Center 190
Swab Right Guard 175
Kirkpatrick Left Guard 185
Moss Right Tackle 170
Brown Left Tackle 165
Allen Right End 165
Troy Left End 160
Reitzel Quarter 160
Burns Right Half 155
Nicodemus Left Half 160

Av. Wt. varsity line, Trinity 179
Av. Wt. varsity B. field, Trinity 165
Av. Wt. varsity team, Trinity 174

EXCELLENT WEATHER AIDS SUNDAY SCHOOL WORKERS

The excellent weather of Sunday seemed to have a good effect upon the attendance at the Sunday Schools where Davidson students work, for all report a large number present. Especially does it seem so at Oak Grove, where a considerable increase was noticed. Six different Sunday Schools were attended by students. Probably the largest number, eight, went to Shearer Chapel. Six went to the Convict Camp; three to Hobson’s Chapel, and Oak Grove; two to Cornelius and the local Mill Chapel.

The attendance at the various schools was as follows: Cornelius, 68; Shearer, 50; Hobson’s, 38; Mill, 35, and Oak Grove, 12. Several plan to go to the Convict Camp today to conduct a Thanksgiving service and carry Thanksgiving baskets. Students also conducted Christian Endeavor Sunday evening at Shearer Chapel and report a large attendance, nearly equaling that of the Sunday School. The work being done at these various schools is encouraging and shows that considerable interest is being taken, both by the students and members.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

In a hard gruelling game at Winston-Salem, the University of North Carolina obtained sweet revenge for their 14-7 defeat in the previous year, by...Driving through the fighting Wildcats for a 10-0 victory, it was one of the most bitterly-fought contests that Winston-Salem had viewed in some time. The “thin red line” of Davidson gave way only after repeated substitutions of fresh Carolina weight. During almost the entire game, the ball see-sawed back and forth, neither team being able to penetrate its opponent's “rock-ribbed” defense at the vital moment when a scoring opportunity was presented. But in the last period, with only a few minutes of playing time, the Tar Heels' substitutions and weight began to have its telling effect on the already trembling Davidson line. Just as the sun was going down back of the western hills, the mighty Carolina machine crashed over the final white line, adding seven points to the field goal kicked in the first half.

One of the Davidsonian editorials after the game makes this remark: “One consolation that our college song has future aspirations—‘O Davidson, we will conquer.’” (This statement proved to be very prophetic, for the next year the Wildcats sent Carolina down to defeat, 7-0). Concerning the loyalty and spirit shown by Red and Black supporters at Winston-Salem, “The Davidsonian” says, “The amount of pep and interest in the team has not been excelled anywhere, not even at Charlotte, where our team is so nobly backed by our fair sisters at Queens.”

An indignant Davidson student comes out in the Open Forum of the Davidsonian, demanding that a telephone be installed at the gym. The Davidsonian carries this advertisement, which sent many students to the city auditorium, Charlotte, December 1: “Queens College Alumnae Association presents John McCormack.”

“There is a compensation in all things. During the present sugar shortage, local boarding houses are serving candy as a proxy for sugar.” Dr. E. V. Claypool of the Anti-Saloon League delivered an address on the vital subject of the day—“World-Wide Prohibition.” Apparently, there was some feeling of distrust concerning the milk supply at the college boarding houses, as shown by the following verse:

“I never saw a purple cow,
I never hope to see one;
But, judging from the milk, somehow,
I feel that there must be one.”

LIBRARY NEWS

Of the books selected by the Librarian as being especially interesting to college students, the following is the section devoted to general college life:
- 578 Boswell, Foster Partridge B74 Aims and Defects of College Education 1915
- 3278 Canby, Henry Seidel C371 College Sons and College Fathers 1915
- 378 Cranfield, J. H. 22 College Student and His Problems 1902
- 378 Ewer, Benard C. E04 College Study and College Life 1917
- 378 Fitch, Albert Parker E54 College Course and Preparation for Life 1914
- 378 Fulton, Maurice Garland (Compiler) Fo74 College Life, Its Conditions and Problems 1914
- 378 Graham, Edward Kidder G73 Education and Citizenship 1917
- 378 Hyde, William De Witt Ho9 College Man and College Woman
- 378 Jordan, David Starr. J82 College and the Man 1907
- 378 Miller, S. M647 Letters from a Father to His Sons in College
- 378 Palmer, Alice Freeman P17 Why Go to College?
- 3278 Thwing, Charles F. Ts4c College Training and the Business Man 1904
- 378 Thwing, Charles F. Ts4i If I Were a College Student 1902

The library has just received a new and especially attractive set of Scott’s novels.

WARRANT OFFICER LACOCK ENDS SPECIAL WORK HERE

The band of Davidson College has been practicing almost every day for the last three weeks until Saturday. Warrant Officer Lacock, from Fort Bragg, has been on the Hill for several weeks and under his competent supervision, the band has made wonderful progress. It is stated by some of the old “timers” that Davidson has, at present, the best band since the day of the far-famed Freeman. During the stay of Mr. Lacock, there have been four or five practices a week. The Military Department has announced that for the month to come, the band will practice only on Monday afternoon and during the drill period Wednesday. Capt. J. R. Earnest will have charge of all band formations and public appearances. In the absence of Captain Earnest, Lieut. B. T. Crayton will direct the musicians. There are now 34 pieces in the band and this number will, in all probability, be increased as several Freshmen are trying out for places. Most of the Freshmen are showing up exceedingly well. The Military Department has written to General Bowley, Commander of Fort Bragg, thanking him for the services of Mr. Lacock. In the letter, Mr. Lacock was praised very highly for the work that he accomplished while on the Hill. The band will be called to practice when needed for special occasions.

THE GREENSBORO COLLEGE GLEE CLUB

(Continued from page 1)

It was beautifully sung, and the costume worn by Miss Mitchell enhanced its delightfulness. This was followed by choruses rendered by the glee club as a unit. Mr. G. F. Alexander, director of the club, entertained with a solo after an intermission, and this was followed by an interesting one-act play, “The Lion and the Lady.” There were two characters, Miss Augusta Sample, who represented Henry Earlsford, an actor; and Miss Grace Yarborough, Lady Margaret Mandeville, who assumed the role of a maid to finally merit the good graces of Henry Earlsford. Miss Seiler, pianist, gave an excellent selection. The closing numbers were choruses, with Miss Lolita Ellis as soloist. Miss Ellis won the admiration of the audience in her rendition of “Somebody’s Knocking at Your Door,” assisted by the entire glee club. Students aided the last number considerably by their co-operation with the club in appearing frightened. Members of the glee club were Misses Clyde Kearns, Pearl Seiler, Grace Yarborough, Dorcas McKinne, Lolita Ellis, Elizabeth Currie, Frances Dailey, Maude Johnson, Madge Marley, Gwendolyn Mitchell, Maude Cotton, Isabelle Caldwell, Elizabeth Eaves, Miriam Hearon, Katherine McIntyre, Mary Sheets, Isabelle Babington, Seppie Bowen, Margaret Fisher, Sallie Gordon, Dorothy Suggs, Elizabeth Campbell, Johnsie Conley, Kathleen Dayvault, Mary Pender Hales, Virginia Lowrance, Dixie Reaves, Mr. G. F. Alexander.

If you see a fellow who looks exactly right in his clothing, do you ever say, “How does he do it?” Probabilities are, old man, that he wears John Ward Men’s Shoes. They add a lot to a fellow’s appearance.

On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store Tomorrow

John Ward Men’s Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia. Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City.

Did Old Man Winter Meet You Unawares? No matter how cold it may be before Spring, we've the overcoats to keep you warm. Straight hanging coats, Ulsters, Guard’s Coats, Chesterfields, and, of course, our favorite Scotch Mists—the overcoat that’s stormproof. $25 to $150 Mellon’s

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP 1897 The Most Convenient For Davidson Men