A BRIGHT AND HAPPY NEW YEAR FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII — DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 11, 1924

KEEP THE HOME FIRES BURNING

No. 13

Twenty Football Letters Are Awarded To Fighting Wildcat Gridiron Warriors

Players Have Made 1924 Season a Successful One From Every Standpoint

EIGHT NEW LETTERS

Practically All of These Men to be Back Next Fall—Davis Gets Eighth Letter

Nineteen members of the varsity squad, on the recommendation of Younger and Tilson, were awarded the coveted “D” by the
Athletic Council last Monday evening for their excellent work during the past season, as well as for the earnestness with
which they served their Alma Mater. The letters were formally awarded at the banquet given for the football team by
the Gaston County Alumni in Gastonia last Wednesday.

The 19 pigskin warriors, winners of letters for the past season, as announced by the Athletic Council, are: Captain “Nappy”
Davis, Pinkney, Bohannon, Baker, Laird, Anderson, Summers, McAulay, Boggs, Vance, Sappenfield, Hendrix, Black, Wells, McComb, Hunt, Leggette, McConnell and Covington.
“Zander” McAllister, who has so faithfully served the team as a manager, was awarded a letter also. Of these men,
Pinkney, Bohannon, Anderson, McAulay, Sappenfield, McComb, Leggette and McConnell were awarded letters for the first time. Captain Davis added the
third star to his galaxy by his playing during the past season, and is now entitled to wear a “D”
and three stars. Hendrix and Black are both entitled to wear a “D” and two stars, while Baker, Laird, Vance,
Boggs, Summers, Wells and Hunt, are possessors of a “D” and one star.

(Continued on page 8)

Weems Gets Aeroplane to Photograph Campus

Glee Club’s First Performance Here Scores A Big Hit

The Wildcat Glee Club embarked upon their triumphal tour of the South with a concert of music, mirth and melody,
given in Shearer Hall, Wednesday evening. For over two hours these versatile young musicians sung, played and laughed their joyous
way into the hearts of all those present, of whom there was a full house. The entire program was well
rendered and given with a dash and execution that displayed the long and careful training spent in preparation for the
series of performances which will be given in numerous cities during the next 10 days. The program was of a
varied nature and contained a sufficient variety of vocal and instrumental music to more than please everyone present. That it
was well received was attested to by the long and continued applause that threatened the very rafters of the hall
when a particularly striking number was rendered. Choruses, solos, quartets, jazz and symphony orchestras, and comedy skits made the whole
performance an enjoyable one for both performers and those who listened.

(Continued on page 7)

Alaskan Explorer Tells of Trips Through North

Multi-Colored Views on Screen Depict Beauties of Alaska and Far North

Edgar C. Raines, representative of the Treasury Department, gave an illustrated lecture on Alaska at Shearer Hall Monday night, December
1st. A 9,000-mile journey was taken via the picture route, the wonders and marvels of that great northland being pointed
out along the way. Mr. Raines comes from Seattle, Wash. He spends eight months of the year lecturing to the
students in the schools and colleges of the states, and is said to know more about Alaska than any other
living man. He went to Alaska in ‘97, at the time of the rush which followed the discovery of gold
in the Klondike. For 25 years Mr. Raines visited the different towns and villages in Alaska as a representative of
the Treasury Department. Alaska, with its mighty glaciers, wonderfully beautiful waterways, great snow-capped mountains, gold mines, summer vegetable gardens, sun-lighted
nights, quaint natives, dreamy moon-lit lakes, and thousands of other wonders, passed before the audience as the pictures flashed from
point to point along the 9,000-mile journey which Mr. Raines promised at the beginning of his lecture. Mr. Raines said
that in his 25 years in Alaska he had found 19 men frozen to death along the trails, and had
barely escaped a like fate as he traveled from place to place with his faithful dog team. He told many
interesting stories of the early days, when men packed their provisions into the interior on their own backs, cooked their
own meals individually, and endured countless other hardships.

Davidson Military Unit Will Be Inspected in January by Staff of Officers

Capt. Geo. H. Weems, on a recent visit to Washington, where he saw the Army defeat the Navy in a
hard-fought football game, attended to many matters of importance and definite interest to the college. Perhaps the most interesting thing
he did while away was the result of an interview at the office of the chief of air service. He
learned that it would be permissible for the Fort Bragg Air Service to take pictures of the Davidson campus, town
and the vicinity about from the air. These pictures will be taken just when the Fort Bragg Air Service will
see fit; this will probably be some time before Christmas, if the weather will permit. These photographs will be valuable
supplements in training material. They will serve and answer the purpose of maps and in this connection will be especially
valuable to the students taking the R. O. T. C. course. Captain Weems also learned from the office of the
Chief-of-Infantry that Col. F. C. Bolles, attended by others, would visit the R. O. T. C. unit at Davidson some
time in January. All R. O. T. C. units in the United States are to be inspected by members of
the office of the Chief-of-Infantry. In view of this fact, the military department at Davidson is preparing for the inspection.

Phi Beta Kappa Talk Shows Value of Classics

Eleven Alumni and Undergraduates Initiated Into Fraternity Friday Night

BANQUET FOLLOWS

Purdy, Trawick and Rowe Who Have Led Class Are Taken Into Honor Fraternity

The public ceremonies and celebration of the Phi Beta Kappa initiation were held at Shearer Hall last Friday night with
Dr. William Spencer Currell the principal speaker. The hall was well filled with students and a large number of the
town residents. The ceremonies were opened with prayer by Rev. W. B. Jennings, of the class of ‘80. He was
also one of the men initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at this time. Dr. I. F. Shewmake, Professor of English
at Davidson, then welcomed the audience and gave a short, interesting history of the fraternity. It was organized on December
5, 1776, at William and Mary College, just 148 years previous to the present initiation. Dr. Shewmake also read a
notice stating that at the same time the initiation was being held here at Davidson, the Virginia Alpha Chapter, which
is the mother chapter, was also holding their initiation and celebration. Following this, Prof. W. W. Wood presented each of
the new members of the Gamma Chapter of North Carolina, located at Davidson, with certificates of membership. Those receiving the
certificates were: Rev. W. B. Jennings, '80, Germantown, Pa.; Dr. James D. Nesbit, '81, New York City; Dr.J. P. Mathewson,
'94, Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. W. T. Thompson, '05, Richmond, Va.; Rev. Robert King, '06, Decatur, Ga.; Dr. B. R.
Lacy, '06, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. J. J. Murray, '09, Lexington, Va.; Dr. J. M. Douglas, '93, Davidson, N. C.; M.
W. Trawick, W. W. Purdy, and A. T. Rowe, all of the class of '25 of Davidson College. With the
exception of two, all of these were present at the celebration. (Continued on page 7)

WILDCAT CAPTAIN AND MANAGERS ARE CHOSEN

At the banquet given by the Davidson alumni in Gastonia last Wednesday night, official announcement was made that R. E.
(Sook) Boggs, Wildcat guard and mentioned in many all-state picks, had been chosen by the squad on Tuesday afternoon to
lead the Wildcats next year. At a meeting of the Athletic Council held Monday evening, the football managers for next
year were chosen. From the Junior class, I. Kelsey Regen, of Franklin, Tenn., was elected manager for next year. Regen
has shown his right to hold this position by his consistent, hard work. M. M. Teague, also of the Junior
class, was elected manager of the Freshman team of next year. From the Sophomore class, three assistant managers were elected.
These men were M. L. Carroll, York, S. C.; R. H. Mellwaine, Kochi, Japan; and W. S. Woods, China. These
three are running neck and neck, and the choice next year will be a close one.

DAVIDSON WILL BENEFIT FROM GENEROSITY OF J. B. DUKE

Great Philanthropist Provides a Fund By Which College Will Receive $75,000

Emory University Defeats Davidson In Forensic Fray

Seriously handicapped by foreign territory and by hastily selected judges, the Wildcat debating team bowed to Emory’s star forensic artists
on last Friday night in Atlanta. The Davidson trio, composed of D. B. Wharton, A. H. Hollingsworth, and C. W.
Williams, defended the affirmative side of the query, Resolved, That the Sterling-Reed Bill should be enacted into law by the
present Congress, while J. O. Maxwell, Charles Allen, and George Morgan upheld the honor of Emory University. The decision committee
voted unanimously in favor of the negative.

C. W. Williams opened the argument for the affirmative by a comprehensive survey of the unsatisfactory condition which is so
evident in the realm of education in America today. He graphically depicted the need for immediate remedy of some nature
and closed his argument with an outline of the Sterling-Reed bill. J. O. Maxwell, who was unquestionably the ablest of
the negative speakers, in presenting the first of the objections to the bill, (Continued on page 6)

Junior-Senior Debates Slated for December 17

EXPERIENCED DEBATERS OF TWO SOCIETIES TO CLASH

Last week each of the four literary societies held a special meeting at which members of the debating team to
represent their society in the annual Junior-Senior debate preliminaries were chosen. An account of the Pandeinic tryout appeared in last
week's Davidsonian. Those winning places were: W. E. Milton, H. I. Shaw, and J. M. Garrison. Monday evening, the Philanthropic
society held their tryouts in Dr. Sentelle’s classroom. Drs. Richards and Porter, and Professor Brown acted as judges and chose
the following men in the order given: B. U. Ratchford, J. H. Holshouser, and J. C. Barrington. H. M. Wells
was selected for alternate. The Eumenean society organized its team from candidates for that honor on Wednesday evening, December 3rd.
These candidates: A. Y. Bowie, Brown, Bragaw, and W. H. Allison tied for second place, and the first two won
when all drew straws for a position on the team. Doctor Porter and Professors Foreman and Wachter were the judges.

Every year each of the four societies enters their teams against one of the others, and the two winners meet
in a final debate for the Alumni Debating Cup. This cup has been held during the past three years by
the Metrophilians, Eumeneans, and Pandeinics in succession. The question for debate this year is, “Resolved, That the Proposed Twentieth Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States as passed by Congress in 1924 should be ratified. Section I, Congress shall
have the (Continued on page 6)

Forty Million Given to Charitable and Educational Purposes by Duke

MANY TO BENEFIT

No Limitations as to Use of Money — College Will Benefit Greatly by This Gift

“Davidson will receive a minimum of $75,000 a year as the result of the generosity of Mr. Duke,” said Dr.
Martin, president of Davidson College, when interviewed Tuesday night in regard to an announcement made in the morning papers that
Davidson, among other colleges in North and South Carolina as well as other institutions, is a beneficiary of a $40,000,000
donation by Mr. J. B. Duke of Charlotte and New York. Dr. Martin went to Charlotte Tuesday at the request
of Mr. Duke and discussed with this philanthropist the part that Davidson will receive of this gift. Mr. Duke stated
to Dr. Martin that Davidson would receive a minimum of $75,000, and that it might reach $100,000 a year. Whatever
amount Davidson will receive lies between these two estimates.

The morning papers announced that Mr. Duke intended to set aside $40,000,000 worth of stock, most of it in the
Southern Power System, the income accruing from this amount to be distributed among several colleges and charitable institutions named in
the document. It was stated that the estimated income of this amount would be $2,000,000 a year. Of this amount,
20 percent would revert (Continued on page 8)

Ninety Fresh Bid Into Fraternities on Bid Day

Eight National and Three Local Organizations

Ninety men were pledged to the national and local fraternities on the Hill last Saturday, the bid day set by
the Pan-Hellenic Council for this fall. On Friday, feeds and smokers in the honor of rushes were enjoyed. The names
of pledges are as follows:

Kappa Alpha—J. J. Crary, Hampton Jennings, Julian Lake, W. L. McColgan, V. J. Guthrie, James S. Wearn, O. P. Wearn,
Lawrence McNeil, J. L. Robinson, DeWitt Hancock, A. B. Carter, and C. C. Carson.

Pi Kappa Alpha—W. S. Sells, Clement Penn, C. W. Harrison, J. Falls, E. K. Houston, P. L. Sutton, Charles Sarkerville,
Joe Overton, J. C. Montgomery, Henry Newsom, H. B. Arbuckle, A. E. Gray.

Beta Theta Pi—E. D. Douglas, C. B. DuBose, J. S. Irvin, J. C. Marrow, R. A. Millson, L. B. McClain,
R. L. McMillan, W. O. Willard, W. K. Russell, C. C. Trabue, R. E. Wilson, R. M. Crosland.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—J. S. McAlister, David Ansley, Martin Crawford, C. F. Ritchie, Rod McCrae, F. C. Withers, R. H. Tucker,
Franklin Grady, Royce Martin, J. H. Bradford, E. H. Driver.

Kappa Sigma—W. R. Grey, J. W. Grey, John Melton, English McGeachy. (Continued on page 6)

Best Wishes For A Merry, Merry Christmas
