THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes”

For Men - Footwear that is Stylish, Serviceable, Comfortable
Complete Stocks For Young Men
GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

Town News

A Christian Endeavor Expert will start Sunday morning, in Shearer Hall at 10 o'clock. All interested are urged to be present at that time.

SPANISH NIGHT

Final rehearsals are being held for the Spanish entertainment to be presented by the Spanish Club of Davidson in conjunction with the Spanish Club of Queens College, next Tuesday night. Professor Fleagle, promoter of the Spanish Night arrangements, has provided a program that will be interesting to the Nth degree, as well as instructive. Invitation has been issued to the entire student body and the townspeople to attend the unique, novel, and unusual performance.

The Senior Christian Endeavor held their usual prayer meeting last Sunday night at 6:45. Miss Frances Johnson had charge of the program for the evening. The program was in the form of a “field meet.” Dick Grey played the part of referee. One event on the program was the high jump, by Miss Ellen Black, and this was in the form of a song which reached a very high note. The next feat was the shot put, by Miss Margaret Adams, which was in the form of the relation of girls’ athletics to the religious life. The relay race started and the contestants showed real skill in finding passages in the Bible, and in saying the ten commandments, books of the Old and New Testaments. The three-mile race started and three short prayers were offered by various members of the society. The final event of the meet was hurdling. Sam Black proved his ability at this time and cleared all the hurdles in fair time.

Preparations are being made for a joint social between Davidson Senior Society, Mooresville Senior Society, and the local C. E. Training class.

Phi Beta Kappa

Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest of the Greek-letter College societies or fraternities, and is in fact, the progenitor of the entire college fraternity system. It was organized December 5, 1776, when the first meeting was held at the College of William and Mary at Williamsburg, Va. A few college societies are older than Phi Beta Kappa, among them “Whig” and “Clio” at Princeton, but none of them sought to expand by the organization of similar societies in other colleges. Phi Beta Kappa began to think of reaching out when it was but little over two years old, and at the celebration of its third anniversary, it granted a charter for a branch at Harvard, and four days later another for a branch at Yale. Just two years later—in January, 1781—the coming of the British army closed the college and also the society's activities at William and Mary; not however until the members had sealed up their records, which conclude with the assertion of “a sure and certain hope that the Fraternity will one day rise to life everlasting and glory immortal.”

Many of the early members became men of distinction, as legislators, diplomats, and judges; two becoming United States Senators and two Judges of the Supreme Court—Bushrod Washington, a nephew of President Washington, and John Marshall. Ten of them have been presidents of the United States, beginning with John Quincy Adams and including Theodore Roosevelt, William Howard Taft, Woodrow Wilson, and Calvin Coolidge. Forty-four per cent of all the men and women honored by tablets in the Hall of Fame at New York University are members of Phi Beta Kappa. Many religious, political, and social leaders are members, and also a great company of authors, educators, and distinguished scientists. The esteem in which membership is held is evidenced by the fact that in 1917 Hon. Arthur J. Balfour and 12 graduates of Oxford and Cambridge, who were members of the British Commission sent to arrange for the participation of the United States in the World War, gladly accepted membership. All four of the delegates selected by President Harding to represent the United States in the International Conference for the Limitation of Armaments were members of Phi Beta Kappa.

Being the oldest college society in the United States and having had such a distinguished career, membership is counted a great honor and many colleges are eager to secure charters. Chapters are now found in every section of the United States. Plans are now forming to celebrate the 150th Anniversary which will occur December 5, 1926, in an especially worthy manner. A fund is being collected to

The class officers for this year are T. S. Baker, president; C. F. Monk, vice-president; E. K. Regen, secretary and treasurer. Committee on banquet were J. A. Bouvier, E. K. Regen, J. A. Minter, H. L. Shaw, and T. S. Baker.

Miss Eloise Martin spent the weekend in Charlotte with friends.

Allison accompanied the entire ensemble on the piano, in singing the stirring strains of College Ties, and O Davidson, which brought the banquet to a close. A theatre party at the Imperial Theatre was in order after the banquet, and the Western drama, “Pioneer Trails,” was much enjoyed by the carefree students sitting in the reserved section of the house. A late hour found the students back on the hill with dreams of the best banquets in the history of Davidson in their heads, to remember for time to come.

Insurance Service---
“We Insure Anything Insurable”
W. E. PRICE
30 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N.C.

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTEHere is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

of Atlanta; Mrs. John Marshall, who was chief justice for Charles E. Hughes; Spinks, guest of Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle, Mrs. Erwin, Mrs. Martin, and Mrs. Arbuckle. The branches at Yale and Harvard soon came to occupy important positions. Mrs. Allison, of Concord, spent Wednesday with her nieces Misses Lizzie and Mary Young. Mrs. Allison came especially to attend the tea given by Mrs. Erwin.

(Continued from page 1) build a memorial building at the College of William and Mary, and to provide an endowment to enlarge the society’s activities in stimulating scholarly ideals and efforts. It is expected that the new catalog will be of great assistance in the conduct of the canvass. From it we learn that there are 50 members in Central and South America, 50 in Africa, 265 in Europe, and 475 in Asia. The president of the society is Dr. Mrs. E. J. Erwin entertained a number of her friends at a tea, last Wednesday evening, given in honor of her Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Spinks, of Winston- Mrs. T. W. Lingle entertained the following:

YOUTHFUL JOLLITY
A marked feature of “Nothing’s too good for my boy!” What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything college men wear-- real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring, English and American fabrics-- coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats -- rainproof. Soft hats, caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate. MELLON’S

Wednesday with her nieces Misses Lizzie and Mary Young. Mrs. Allison came especially to attend the tea given by Mrs. Erwin. The branches at Yale and Harvard soon came to occupy important positions. Mrs. Allison, of Concord, spent Wednesday with her nieces Misses Lizzie and Mary Young. Mrs. Allison came especially to attend the tea given by Mrs. Erwin.

Dr. and Mrs. Martin entertained at their home last Thursday evening. Both the program and the color scheme of green carried out the idea of St. Patrick's Day. One of the features of the program was an inspirational address given by Dr. I. W. McConnell. Also, there were several very appropriate tableaux carrying out the program.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte Winston-Salem Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

Grayson Satisfies—You Save
Grayson Clothes for gentlemen are designed and tailored to suit the discriminating requirements of college men.

CALENDAR
Thurs., Mar. 20, 7:00 p.m.—Fresh-Soph. Debate Between Eu and Phi Societies.
TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT — Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Fri., Mar. 21, 7:00 p.m.—Spanish A.
Never before have such clothes been offered at anything like such low prices!
CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE

Sat., Mar. 22, 7:30 p.m.—Movies: Viola Dana in Social Code. Harold Lloyd, added attraction.

Sun., Mar. 23, 1:15 p.m.—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
7:00 p.m.—Y. M. C. A. Vespers.
7:00 p.m.—Volunteer Band.

Mon., Mar. 24, 8:00 p.m.—Omicron Delta Kappa.

Tues., Mar. 25, 7:30 p.m.—Pan-Hellenic Literary Society.
Metropolitan Literary Society.
7:30 p.m.—Play by Spanish Clubs. Davidson and Queens.

Wed., Mar. 26, 7:30 p.m.—Prayer Meeting.

WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 4:30
Huntersville 8:25 11:25 1:55 5:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 5:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 5:45
Troutman 9:00 12:00 2:30 6:00
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:00 6:30

Leaves Statesville
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville 7:00 10:00 1:00 4:00
Troutman 7:30 10:30 1:30 4:30
Mooresville 7:45 10:45 1:45 4:45
Davidson 8:00 11:00 2:00 5:00
Huntersville 8:15 11:15 2:15 5:15
Charlotte 8:45 11:45 2:45 5:45

For Further Information See Driver

Grayson Satisfies—You Save
New York headquarters
UNIVERSITY PLACE AT 14th STREET
NEW YORK, N. Y.