4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents, per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE... Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN... Associate Editor
C. McSWAIN... Associate Editor
C. R. HUNTER... Alumni Editor
MY BET GARRISON... Business Manager
APH DY NGH... Circulation Manager
C. R. HUNTER... Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER... Bookkeeper
MY BET GARRISON... Service Manager
APH DY NGH... Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
I. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
E. MOORE
M. APPLEBY
P. O'CONNOR
I. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
I. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES
D. WHARTON
W. H. LY
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

J. S. McNAIR

Death, the grim reaper, moves on relentlessly taking his toll from every class and age and leaving in his wake
mourners weeping for their loved ones who will never return. Each of us has the realization that we must someday
face Death—and yet to youth Death seems but a vision which passes it by and faces only those who have
finished their allotted term of “threescore years and ten.” But Death is no respecter of persons, and where it is
least expected life is cut short. The death of J. S. McNair is one of those inexplicable visitations of God’s
hand which has brought grief to the entire student body. After a short illness of ten days, Jack quietly passed
away, leaving behind a place in the hearts of his friends which can never be filled. For over two years
he had lived on the campus, a friend to all with whom he came in contact; a student who realized
to the fullest extent the value of the college course and who made the highest use of all his opportunities;
an example of right living and unassuming worth. His death came as a shock to the entire student body. Their
sympathy goes out to his family in their bereavement. Jack is gone, but his influence remains and his memory will
be held dear on the campus.

THE FINAL RESULTS

The Life Work Conference led by Dr. Talliaferro Thompson, of the Union Theological Seminary at Richmond, has just closed. His
words have made an impression on our souls—there is no question about that. He is a wonderful speaker with a
profound knowledge of psychology and philosophy and an unswerving belief in the teachings of Jesus Christ. To us, during the
meetings just past, he has talked with a knowledge of the problems which confront college men. He has talked sympathetically,
for he was once a student here, and his words have not been wasted. The question which arises is, “Will
the effects of the conference be lasting?” If not, then what good will the meetings accomplish? There is but one
way to make a success out of life—to face all problems squarely and decide for the right. That is the
thought which has been brought out in the services. If, after listening to these words, we are unwilling to face
the facts squarely and act according to our convictions as to what we ought to do, the meetings have failed
in their purpose for us. Will the meetings have a lasting effect on us?

HOMECOMING DAY

November 15 will be a great day in Davidson history. That afternoon Carolina plays on Richardson field, the first time
the Tar Heels have ever played on Davidson ground. But more than that it will be Homecoming Day, a day
when all loyal alumni want to turn their steps toward the old campus and get back on “the hill” once
more. The college has changed. Every place changes. But Davidson is still Davidson, the place where each of her sons
spent some of the happiest days of his life. New dormitories have been built, new customs have been instituted, new
faces appear on the campus each year, but the traditions of Wildcat spirit and Davidson honor still remain as the
most priceless possession of us, her students. Memories of scenes and incidents may fade and die out but the spirit
still calls her sons back, irresistibly, and they flock back once more, still jealous of her traditions and praying that
old Davidson may never lower her high standards of honor. Always it is the same. Rumors of the disrupting of
Davidson traditions seep out; stories that things are not what they used to be are circulated; the alumnus is given
a vague uneasy feeling that there is something lacking in the new Davidson College. Then he returns and sees the
same high ideals, the same friendly camaraderie between the men on the campus. Come back alumni, and see the changes
which have taken place, the improvements which have been made. Learn to know Davidson once more. And however far you
may have to travel, and however it may inconvenience you, you will feel repaid when you see the fighting Wildcats
take the field and stand with bared head as you sing,

Down Carolina
As through their line we run
Win for the honor
Of old Davidson.

THE LAST FOUR

With the season of 1924 more than half gone, the Wildcats face their hardest test in the last four games
on the schedule. Three of these four contests have a direct bearing on the state championship race, and the remaining
contest is with the Clemson Tigers, one of the strongest South Carolina teams. The Wildcat string of victories was broken
by the Purple Hurricane at the South Carolina State Fair last week. Five wins in a row is the best
the Red and Black machine has done in many a year. Now that the line of successive victories has been
cut short, the team can turn its attention wholly to the game before it without the strain of having a
perfect record to uphold. The loss of the Furman game has not lowered the morale of the team or of
the student body. After all, the deciding factor was a blocked punt in the early minutes of play. After the
two teams battled on even terms throughout the game, with Wildcats having a little the best of the argument in
ground gained. At the present writing Wake Forest and Davidson are the only two Carolina teams undefeated within the state.
Each has lost one game to an out of state team but Wake Forest has the advantage in that they
have one major state victory over Carolina to their credit. Davidson has yet to play a major state team, and
the outcome of the games with State, Carolina, and Trinity will make or break the Wildcat in the state championship
race. Davidson is definitely eliminated as a contender, having lost to Furman.

UNPOPULAR SONGS

Timidly I knocked on the portal of the Jazzum Song Company, with a clenched fist. In my well-worn carpet-bag I
carried manuscripts for several song hits which I desired to see in print and to hear on tongue, and for
this reason I awaited on the outside. A gruff voice told me to come in and I opened the door
to meet a starry-eyed stenographer who told me that her boss was in his sanctum. I skipped in. Briefly, I
proposed to the song baron my plans for jazzing my way to fame and fortune; briefly he shot back: “You're
from the sticks,” he said. I told him I was proud of it, and asked him why he divulged the
suspicion. “Why, it’s simple,” he said, “your hand is horny where you've been cranking the family tractor, and there’s hay-seed
in your hair. But that ain't there or here, read out your first song and we'll see how she goes.”
Thus, I read out my first composition entitled Dreaming. I struck my most dignified position and with a dreamy, romantic
voice warbled it:

When I sit by the firelight at evening,
With my pipe sending wreathes in the air,
A fair vision floats ever before me,
And I long for my sweetheart so fair.
Yet, I know there's no use of pining,
When her love notes I read as of yore;
And a voice tells she’s somewhere declining
Another as she did me before.

The head of the Jazzum Company groaned audibly, but I continued.

Chorus:
In the heart of a long evening hour
I dream of her once more again,
But to think, I'd stoop to drink
If she'd ever cause me any pain—

“Stop, right there,” said the boss, “that ditty is entirely too melodramatic, and too high flown for the thing with
a snap and rattle to it.championship race. The Demon Deacons meet the same three teams so an accurate line on
the strength of the two elevens can be obtained. Although Davidson and Wake Forest are the only undefeated state teams,
the others cannot be definitely considered out of the running.

Trinity has lost to State and Carolina, but she may knock either Wake Forest or Davidson out of the running.
State has one victory and one loss with Davidson, and Wake Forest to meet in the near future. Carolina has
one loss and two wins with only the Davidson game remaining among her intra-state contests. State, Carolina, and Trinity—and the
odds are against Davidson’s lightweights in every game. Every man in the student body is behind the team to the
limit, backing them. The game with State tomorrow will be a test of the old Wildcat spirit—and whatever the outcome,
the Younger machine will be in the game from whistle to whistle. If we give the team the backing it
deserves, it will do the rest and “win for the honor of old Davidson.”

Now what else have ya’ got?” “Well,” says I, “this here ballad which I will now proceed to bawl out,
is designed to catch the elusive public fancy. Not much sense to it, but that's all right. A jazzy tune
will start this ball a-rolling right now. The chicks and tea-hounds ought to take to it good, as it sounds
grand, done to a saxophone accompaniment. Here she flies:”

Nothing could be finer, than to be a diamond miner
And to have a lot of jewelry at your call.
Just to dig a ton or two, of diamonds big and blue,
And perhaps a pile of gold, and that ain't all,
Then to strut up the street, handing all you meet
A stony stare that makes them all repeat,
A diamond's just a stone after all.

“Yes,” said Jazzum, “a diamond's a stone they all are after. But there ain't enough pep in that hokum. Ain’t
you got a little Mammy stuff? You know, the kind that tells about your Mammy down in Alabammy and that
kind of stuff. It always makes a hit with the Southerners, you know, then, the sentiments are pretty good, too.
What ya’ got in that line?”

I assumed a pose suggestive of a romantic lover and of a billy-goat be-whiskered Southern Colonel and spat out the
following with a war-like demeanor. “This ought to make a salty cracker shed tears,” said I,

Down where the bees are buzzing,
Down where the moon shines low,
Down where I've got so many cousins,
That's where I love to go.
For I'm getting mighty hungry
For an old-fashioned feed.
And in my dreams I see my sweetheart mammy,
That's all my poor heart needs.

Chorus:
Way—way down in Alabammy,
Kindly let me be.
I see my sweetheart Mammy,
Underneath the apple tree,
And I don't crave to do no roaming,
All I wanna do is rest.
You can talk about your flappers and Shebas,
But I like Mammy the best.

“Them’s fine words,” said Jazzum, “but they ain't no pep much; too much sentiment is all right in its place,
but we want something that'll appeal to both sexes, big and little, something they can all dance by, grandpa and
little sister.”

“How's this?” I said:
Her lips tell me yes—yes, and her eyes say no—no—no,
Now how can I tell which one lies, is what I'd like to know.

“Stop, stop!" he shouted, “no goo-goo-googly eyes, for me.” So I started off again with my worst one, as I
thought. It was written in desperation, on the chorus:

Super-heated mamma, ice-cold papa.
And that's just what I mean;
Don’t tell me that it ain't proper,
And soak it right down in your bean.
I get the rasp if I jazz on my saxophone.
But sweetie Mamma likes to hear me moan,
So lickety split and a coupla cheers,
If I can't get Scotch, I take near-beer.
Super-heated Mamma, don’t you try to par-boil me.

Old Jazzum was well-nigh breathless as I read it, so I continued:
You can talk about your music of a jazzy kind,
But your sweet papa, he ain't blind.
He may be spoony, but he’s not loony,
And let me tell you, he’s as cold as can be.

“Let me have that for five hundred dollars, will you?” He was terribly anxious, so just for accommodation’s sake, I
sold it to him.

C.F. S.

With the College Editors

TOO MUCH CAKE

In an address which has been published in pamphlet form by the Columbia University Christian Association, Dean Hawkes wields a
penetrating scalpel over the younger generation. Departing from the approved manner of our elders who utter scathing pooh-poohs and raise
their hands to the shuddering heavens whenever the behavior of their posterity is mentioned, the Dean in a spirit of
kindliness and quiet sincerity seeks to determine our essential. Where others have, with compressed nostrils, sought to wean us from
our flesh pots, the Dean expresses confidence in us and regards us with sympathetic understanding.

The characteristic of the day is, to the mind of Dean Hawkes, an emphasis on individuality and a corresponding tendency
to break with tradition in every way. This individuality is achieved at the expense of unity, form, and order. To
the utter neglect of the whole, the effort of the day bends itself to the cultivation of the part, and
a vast lack of coordination is the result. This state of affairs is most conspicuous in the modern arts. “Much
of our modern music does not pretend to get anywhere. One sound follows another and the entire succession is intended
only to express in a charming manner the phantasy of the composer.” The student of today is lost in this
mazy tangle of “uncoordinated motions and restless activities.” No guiding purpose rules, and he wanders as the winds list or,
as Aldous Huxley expresses it, he is wafted swooning over “billows of molasses” he knows not whither.

So much for the Dean’s analysis; but certain conclusions relating to Columbia may be drawn therefrom. This chaotic attitude towards
things and this affection for the dismembered rather than the coherent is quite apparent, we take it, in the capriciousness
which regulates the choice of studies in the college. Without a definite object in view, the candidates for the bachelor’s
degree demonstrate a pronounced partiality for the eclectic. A conglomeration of unrelated courses is the rule, and the result is
a weird smattering which calls to mind the ingredients of the witches’ cauldron. But without an end in view, the
broth just misses the admired thick and slab consistency. One graduates with a rudimentary acquaintance with many things and a
thorough knowledge of nothing in particular. The result is, of course, acute indigestion.

Our mania for ramification has a sorry opportunity to follow its primrose path of dalliance in Columbia. The curriculum of
the college admits freely of this random activity. Instead of a solid basis of required work and advanced specialization, the
student is free to fulfill the impulse of the younger generation after his first year. There is much cake and
an absence of bread and butter in the curriculum. The younger generation appears incompetent to pick the bread from the
bewildering banquet offered. The remedy seems to lie in a return to the old in education which provided a thorough
grounding in the classics and basic studies and later a vigorous specialization. It is only then that one is in
a position to choose the cake—Columbia Spectator.

CAMPUS OPINION CONDEMNS DRINKING

At the last meeting of the Alumni Association of the University of Florida, resolutions were passed approving President Murphree’s stand
on the eighteenth amendment and condemning the use of alcoholic drinks by the student body. In accordance with this resolution,
notice was served in the university catalog “that the drinking of alcoholic beverages by students is prohibited and that those
unwilling to comply should attend some other institution.” Notwithstanding this excessively broad hint, there are a few—a very few—who have
chosen to ignore it and, seemingly, are attempting to ride rough-shod over the rules and regulations of our institution.

Such men are rapidly making their presence obnoxious and their room desirable. The school authorities have decreed that all drinking
of alcoholic beverages at the U. of F. shall stop, and they have behind them the powerful force of campus
opinion and the active co-operation of the Florida Alumni. Especially noteworthy is the stand taken by the fraternities. Nearly every
one of them has outlawed drinking; some of them have not stopped with dismissing the violators from membership, but have
proceeded to report them to university authorities. It is a praiseworthy stand, and one that will go far towards arresting
public opposition to fraternal organizations. In late years, much hostility has developed against college fraternities, due chiefly to an erroneous
belief that they condone violations of the eighteenth amendment. The positive uncompromising attitude which fraternities at Florida have taken should
go far towards re-establishing them in the confidence of the citizens of our State—Florida Alligator.
