4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS - Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE - Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE - Managing Editor
J. A. LAKE - Assistant Managing Editor
H. B. PRICE - Assistant Managing Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY - Athletic Editor
J. M. SELSER - Peanut Parcher
W. Z. BRADFORD - Associate Editor
C. WILDMAN - Associate Editor
W. R. HOUGH - Alumni Editor

Business Staff
W. T. McCOY - Subscription Manager
J. T. McCALLIE - Circulation Manager
W. R. HOUGH - Advertising Manager
W. T. McCOY - Typist
W. R. HOUGH - Bookkeeper

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres.
APPLEBY, J. C.
BOWIE, H. L.
PITTS, B. G.
GARRISON, J. M.
ATCHISON, J. L.
GIBBS, J. L.
ROGERS, G. D.
HOLLINGSWORTH, B.
THOMPSON, B.
MILHOUS, J.
SHAW, H. L.
MUTON, W. E.
SMITH, C. F.
MOORE, J.
STORY, P. J.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
WILSON, D. G.

EDITORIAL

A SEAT OF ACTIVITY

“What a shame it is that Davidson is so far from the attractions and the entertainment of the city,” is
frequently heard from students. Yes, what a pity it is! Nothing for the Davidson man to do with his time!

At present the athletic enthusiast may participate in spring football, baseball, track, tennis, or golf. Teams are being put in
the field in all these sports. And, still, there is an interest in the hardwood floor, an average of 20
or 30 men patronizing the gymnasium every afternoon.

Two intercollegiate debates are in the bud: one with Emory University and another with Trinity College. There is also an
intercollegiate debate with the University of North Carolina, arranged through the Spanish departments of Davidson and Carolina. Junior Speaking, with
its multiplicity of committees, plans, and arrangements, is but a few paces to the fore. This is one of the
biggest undertakings of the year.

The Glee Club is functioning on frequent occasions, and the Dramatic Club is anxiously awaiting an opportunity to squeeze in
a little fun. Classes in make-up and stage direction have been arranged, three one-act plays will probably be presented Junior
Week, and a Minstrel has been suggested for Commencement.

The Y. M. C. A. is diligently following up the Life Service Conference with a campaign of activity, in addition
to its manifold services to the student body.

The too numerous honorary fraternities and societies claim from three to five nights out of the week. Particularly long and
tedious are the meetings and conferences at present in the light of approaching elections.

The publications cannot find a moment for let-up. They pursue their task with relentless vigor, week after week and month
after month.

In addition to these minor activities, there is the regular routine of college study, college lectures, special entertainments, and incidentals.
An American college is a universe in itself, probably too much so; when we consider the charge that college students
isolate themselves from the world and its activity, there is little danger of stagnation or decadence. Davidson is personified activity,
and its separation from the modern city is by no means a cause for concern. On the campus, there is
entertainment, there is activity, there is life and spirit; yet, there are cloistered retreats where one may be alone with
himself if he should so desire. Don’t think your college is too far removed from civilization. Make use of the
opportunities that are yours in an ideal environment.

TIME-BINDING US

“More time! More time!” the poor over-organized, rushed-to-death college students are crying. Our life is a feverish round of one
thing after another! We stay up all night and dash about all day and never find satisfaction.

Dr. Karl T. Waugh, Dean of the College of Liberal Arts of the University of Southern California, has surveyed the
activities of the students of Southern California and, evidently believing that the cause of low grades is due to the
fact that students do not order their lives by a fixed schedule, has made out a program allotting some task
to each hour. At first, this program appears rather startling. Then calculation reveals the fact that Dr. Waugh has only
dissected a five-day week. There are evidently two days, then, on which one may enjoy a lazy freedom. The rest
of the week is to be divided as follows: Class recitation, 16 hours; preparatory study, 32 hours; dressing and meals,
12 hours; exercise and recreation, 12 hours; sleep, 48 hours. This makes a total of 120 hours, or five full
days.

It sounds rather ideal, but simply doesn’t work that way. One would like to do some questionnairing of students. How
many ever get nine and a half hours of sleep regularly? How many ever ate three meals and dressed—if only
once—in two and a half hours? And then—the crowning luxury—six and a half hours a day for study! Given a
student and a few books and peaceful quietness, and this might happen—but we are given so much more! Do you
remember a day—outside of examination week—when you had six and one-half hours to study and nine and one-half in which
to sleep? Two of the precious six were perhaps spent in waiting for “meetings” which failed to meet, and the
rest in hunting for people who had to be seen about something or other. Professor Waugh’s scheme is most appealing—especially
the two wholly unscheduled days. But somehow, it doesn’t fit the existing college order. Still—every perfect map of the world
should include Utopia. The New Student.

D.

A thing of beauty is a joy forever, advises the Junior Week Committee, in making suggestions for types to be
asked up for Speaking.

D.

Spanish classes, Spanish plays, an intercollegiate Spanish debate, a Spanish Sunday School class, El Club Espanol, Spanish songs and perchance
a Spanish dance! Hot tamale! What an ideal environment for the Bull!

D.

It’s simply scan’lous the way the paragraphers are making use of oil. No kick comin’, though, as long as it’s
done according to oil.

D.

Some people, when they can find nothing in the world to do, do nothing. Others write poems and stories from
song titles.

From the pulpit, the platform, and the press there is a never-ceasing plea for leadership. Have you ever stopped during
the course of the day’s work to consider that there is a much more important lesson to be learned first—the
lesson of followship.

D.

A month ago Mah Jong was as foreign as gold dollars as far as the Davidson campus was concerned. And
now it ’pears like dormitory teams will be formed for a championship series. Gosh, how these games do change. Well,
anyhow we don’t care! It’s a better game than Old Maids.

D.

Writing paragraphs while half conscious in a hospital is the fondest thing a paragrapher is of, to use the language
of our good friend Octavus Roy. It’s like walking in one’s sleep—when you get somewhere! you don’t know it, but
you don’t care cause you wasn’t going there anyhow.

Open Forum

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

QUIT KNOCKING

We are living, that is one thing certain. Like any other organism in this great old world of animate life,
we eat, that much is necessary. We grow in stature if not in other things. We are conscious that here
is, around us, our environment; society and its restraininginfluences, customs, laws, morals, religious beliefs, and authority. We live in an
environment that is not of our own making, but we are not free; that also is another thing certain. We
must meet that environment, co-operate with it, not coerce it too much to make life a success. That is just
the problem. We have a physical as well as a social environment. We must meet them both, but the social
is the hardest nowadays. Then where are we? We sit on top of the world in one respect at least.
We head the list of animals in that we have the brains. We think. This is what raises us above
our humbler kindred of the dust. We are supposedly intelligent. At least we have the faculties. But are we using
these faculties? Rand may call us just a thinking thing. We can’t prove he isn’t right. But some of us
do make that assertion very doubtful when we show so few signs of the process.

This is just what our friend Galloway has been talking about. He could have boiled down some of his bull.
He could have left some of it unsaid. We can’t think too free and alone. If we do, we shoot
off at a tangent. Let's not think, or let’s not live like mere beasts. Don't consider it the greatest and
best in life to shut yourself up and become a mind only, a mental ascetic, a radical. Don't believe your
own opinions are always best. Get out and experience something before you form opinions too hastily. If you haven't been
a college professor, don’t think them conservative, narrow dumbbells, just because you yourself can’t understand. If you think the college
is all wrong and away behind, what about going somewhere else for a change and see that it is not
so bad after all. Imagine yourself in his place for a while. And if the president doesn’t suit, it is
very easy to criticize. In other words, think, but think fairly. Try to understand how he gets that way and
you will usually find that he is thinking to a purpose just as you are. You can't do the other
fellow’s thinking for him. Get into your own environment. You will usually find it hard enough if you intend to
get anything out of it. Do you realize that the environment of other people, their position, their station in life
is perhaps a little different from your own? Think for yourself for a while, not so much how the other
fellow ought to live and do things. Meet your own environment and make of it what you please. If you
enjoy literature or flowers, don’t think the fellow a dumbbell who doesn't. In other words, don’t waste the time figuring
out how everything is all wrong, how the college is going to the dogs. It isn’t, no matter how distorted,
lazy, and cramped our college life is. You don’t belong here unless you know how to fit; unless you know
how to think out your own problems. We can't do much with the world's or the college’s problems until we
have demonstrated the ability to master our own. We are here at Davidson, perhaps from choice, perhaps not. But we
can’t get around the fact that we are here. There may be many things wrong, we won't change them by
knocking. We are here to build a personality, not to sit on a jury that passes judgment on all that
goes on here. It will be admitted that Davidson doesn’t keep each and every student with his nose to the
grindstone, and we ought to be glad that it does not. We have our bull sessions, our play, our social
affairs, and other interests as well as our work. Why not? There are more sides to a man than just
bone-headed study. Then solve your own problems while in college. Let some of the rest of the world go by.
We are here to round out a personality. Let's do it, but not radically and skeptically. Life is almost a
failure if we don’t fit at college. Quit knocking, and let’s make things go.

Bevo Davis.

RADIO

Kiss me by radio,
That is the stuff.
Lady O! Lady O!
’Taint close enough.

Them were the sentiments expressed by a dashing sheik when his fair Juliet expressed her opinion that his osculatory powers
could be used to the best advantage when mixed in with the Hertzian waves. But of course, no self-respecting youth
could ever withstand the female lure from such a distance. “Where are thou, Radio?” or rather we should say, “Where
ain't they?” Since radio has the good ole U.S.A. in its grip, the elusive static and wave lengths have formed
a combination that nothing except a radio set of your own can buck up against. Instead of “What Are the
Wild Waves Saying?” it’s “What Are the Radio Waves Broadcasting?” Everybody has to have a radio to keep in the
swim, and to discourse intelligently on the wave lengths, variocouplers, and grid leaks and such if he or she expects
to be number 399 in the smart 400 set.

——Wild Waves

Take our friend Bill Sadie, he’s a regular human dynamo; a magnetic personality, sparkling wit, and everything he has on
is charged.

Wild Waves: Suggestions for Broadcasting Station initials which will suit the action to the word: Chicago—C. O. D.; Richmond—F. F.
V.; Detroit—F. O. B.; New York—P. D. Q.; Home (wherever it may be)—S. O. S.; Davidson—B. U. L. L.

Wild Waves

In days of old, when knights were bold, each wore a suit of tin. He had no flannels for the
cold nor golf socks for his shin. To take a ride with his fair bride, he'd mount his fiery steed,
while wifie rode along beside to fill his every need. In those old times a book of rhymes, and say
perhaps a song costing but a paltry dime would answer mighty strong for books and plays or roundelays that set
our ears agog and for which duly offer praise, though unfit for a dog. When all alone, they had no
phone to get the neighbor’s gab, which, like the summer wind, is blown for all in sight to grab. The
rustic hicks out in the sticks depended on the flow of gossip’s tongue, his life to mix with scandal’s latest
blow.

Wild Waves: But in this age of wit and sage, each has his radio to substitute for printed page or
moving picture show. Some bits of brass, a tube of glass, with thingumbobs thrown in, to let the captive static
pass or raise a raucous din; some strands of wire, a truthful liar, to get his hook-up wrong—the whole works
raise a fellow's ire, though simple as Mah Jong, which game is played by man and maid since China’s on
the map. But radio’s the only trade for some poor simple saps.

Wild Waves: With anxious look and opened book, the novice “listens in” to stations in some far-off nook and quite
beyond his ken. And there he sits in static fits while turning knobs and screws, his rubber earmuffs gather bits
of rag-time jazz and blues. Into the night, with shaded light, he twists his wires and dials and lest he
mar with vicious spite some costly bulb of vials, he tends with care all parts to spare and never hates
a chance to tinker with the cold thin air. He never needs a horoscope to sense the good news there.
And if perchance, he likes to dance or cut a pigeon-wing, the ether will his plans enhance, or teach him
how to sing. A talk on “Drinks” by Doctor Blinks, and then a bedtime tale, will loosen up the stingy
gink who never spends his kale: and cause this bird’s song to be heard in every town and city, “I'll
buy a set upon my word and tune in on some ditty.” The times are bad, the wireless lad stays
up until two and three. The “wireless widow's” quite as sad as golf ones used to be.

Wild Waves

But Henry Jones, in joyful tones, says “I shall never stir. I'll stick to my old wireless phones, for I
am a widower. My darling wife has ceased her strife and ‘tunes’ in on New York to learn the fashions
of their life or how to use a fork. She sits there long to learn a song and let the
housework lay. The family budget’s all gone wrong, it’s fading day by day. But why should I lose out and
cry, or give my heart a blow? If wifie has her freedom, why I’ve my radio.”

——Wild Waves
