THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

Phi Gamma Delta Hall and Furniture Damaged When Conflagration Starts at Early Morning Hour—Students Respond

“What was all the disturbance the other night, about three o'clock?” “Was it a night shirt parade?” “Why I didn’t
hear any bell ring.” “Freshman, you didn't go to the fire?”

Last Friday morning about three o'clock, the night-watchman discovered a small fire in the Phi Hall. The night-watchman being a
new man, did not know to ring the bell to arouse the students. He hurried over to Rumple where the
following conversation followed. “Excuse me gentlemen, is there a little something around here a fellow could get to put out
a little bit of fire.” By this time Shorty Howell and Bob Kimzey were awake. “Go ring that bell and
wake up the students.” The night-watchman rang the bell, but did not ring the regular fire-alarm. There were many students
that thought this was a trick. But as the news of a fire spread from Rumple down Dormitory Row, the
students responded to the call. There could have been some suspicion to whether this was a night shirt parade or
not. The students in response to the call came as soon as they could get their eyes open enough to
see. Thus it is useless to describe the attire of the Fire Department.

It was very fortunate that the night-watchman discovered the fire in the nick of time. The students arrived with buckets
and hose; while others brought the chemicals; the fire was brought under control, with Captain George, acting as fire chief.
As the fire was put out with chemicals, no water was used. The R. O. T. C. department collected the
fire fighting equipment and carried it back to the fire house. There was some damage done to the Phi Gamma
Delta Fraternity Hall, where the fire started. The floor was burned, and furniture damaged to a large extent.

FURMAN FIGHTS HARD

(Continued from page 1)

the three yards, and the Purple Hurricane, as no other team does, realizes the factor he has proven and is
proving in the Davidson line. Every man on the Davidson team deserves great credit. Furman used almost a one-man team.
Herlong, in the backfield, was used incessantly. He was used to hurl passes, to kick and to carry the ball.
Three times straight he would be used, and twice in every four attempts the quarterback would call upon number eleven,
Herlong’s number, to carry the ball. He was a driving power and gained ground consistently for the Purple Hurricane.

The team from Greenville won the toss up and chose to let the Wildcats kick against a strong eastern wind.
Against this Black kicked off 46 yards, and the punt was returned 18. Failing to gain, Furman punted, and Davidson
rushed the ball down the field, making two first downs and bringing the ball 17 yards from the goal. Instead
of kicking a field goal, a pass was attempted which failed, and the ball went over to Furman. Furman made
two first downs and kicked. With the ball on Davidson's own 32-yard line Leggette’s punt was blocked by Brown, and
was recovered by Tilghman, end, who ran for a touchdown. It seemed as if the entire Furman team broke through
this time, several players trailing at the heels of Tilghman. Furman failed to kick goal, Score, Furman 6, Davidson 0.

After another kick off Furman was penalized, the ball was on the latter's 14-yard line, but Herlong kicked safely from
danger. Davidson soon kicked and Furman fumbled, Davidson recovering. The quarter ended at this point. The second quarter opened with
the ball in Davidson's possession on Furman’s 30-yard line, but a pass failed and Leggette kicked over the goal line
for a touchback. Failing to gain, Furman punted and shortly afterward Leggette again punted over the goal line for a
touchback. This was kept up until Davidson was finally eight yards from the goal, but two passes failed and the
ball changed hands. The half ended with the ball in Furman’s possession on her own 27-yard line.

Davidson opened the second half with a 45-yard kickoff to Herlong who returned 10. Soon after Herlong made 35 yards
over Furman’s left tackle. He was a hard man to stop on this play. The game consisted of an exchange
of punts until Hunt got away with a brilliant play, and received a second pass for 20 yards. The quarter
ended with the ball in Furman’s possession on her own 34-yard line. Shortly after the fourth quarter opened was the
feature playing of the afternoon, when the little Wildcats held the big Furman team on her three-yard line. After the
ball had gone over to Davidson, six inches from the last white line Hunt punted just over the head of
the safety man who touched the ball. The ball was live and it was McConnell who fell on the ball
for Davidson. The game ended with the ball in Furman’s possession on Davidson's 38-yard line.

The line-ups:
Davidson (0) Position Furman (6)
Davis Left end Tilghman
Baker Left tackle Smith
McConnell Left guard Coleman (C)
Brown Center Bohannon
McAven Right tackle McConnell
Hendrix Right end Crawford
Sapp Quarterback Axtell
Leggette Left half Day
Black Right half Herlong
Touchdown: Tilghman. Substitutions—For Davidson: Boggs for McAulay, Hunt for Leggette, Hewlett for Hendrix, Summers for Anderson, Patterson for Vance, McCombs
for Sapp, Wells for Hewlett. For Furman: Armstrong for Dempsey, Blackwell for Langford, McGee for Crawford, Dempsey for McGee. Officials:
Referee, Bocock (Georgetown); umpire, Streithn (Auburn); headlinesman, Sampson (St. Albans). Outside of this there was no other feature of the
game.

Smith, Milton, Monk and Branch Attend Press Meet

Four Representatives of Davidsonian to Attend Meeting of College Journalists

As representatives of the Davidsonian, C. F. Smith, managing editor and W. E. Milton, assistant managing editor of that paper,
leave today to attend the fall convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association at Greensboro. W. H. Branch and
C. F. Monk also go. The meeting to be held at Greensboro College for Women opens tonight with an informal
reception given by the staff of the G. C. W. paper, who are hosts to delegates from fourteen North State
institutions. The pressmen will hold sessions for three days following.

The N.C. C. P. A. has been closely linked with the activities of the Davidson College publications. The first president
was an editor of the Davidsonian and since then other Davidson men have held offices in the organization. The D.
C. periodicals have derived no little benefit from this co-operation with other newspapers and magazines in the same field besides
having helped to raise the standard of college journalism in North Carolina.

A special feature of the convention will be the round-table discussion groups on the various phases of work on the
publications. In these an opportunity will be given newspaper editors, magazine editors, business managers, and the heads of the various
departments to exchange ideas and methods related especially to their particular line of effort.

It will be remembered that at the meeting of the association at Elon College last spring, the Davidsonian was designated
the best college newspaper in North Carolina, and that the Davidson College Magazine was selected among the best three in
the state. C. M. S. Melwaine and K. S. McAlpine, editor-in-chief and business manager respectively of the Davidsonian attended the
convention and were present when their paper received the honor.

CORRECTION

In last week's issue the Davidsonian reported that Dr. J. M. Douglas received the Doctor of Laws degree from Presbyterian
College of South Carolina. Instead, it was his brother, Dr. John Leighton Douglas, head of the Math department of Davidson.

Dr. and Mrs. Thompson is the guest of Fraser Hood.

The ball in Furman’s possession on her own 34-yard line. Shortly after the fourth quarter opened was the feature playing
of the afternoon, when the little Wildcats held the big Furman team on her three-yard line. After the ball had
gone over to Davidson, six inches from the last white line Hunt punted just over the head of the safety
man who touched the ball. The ball was live and it was McConnell who fell on the ball for Davidson.
The game ended with the ball in Furman’s possession on Davidson's 38-yard line.

The line-ups:
Davidson (0) Position Furman (6)
Davis Left end Tilghman
Baker Left tackle Smith
McConnell Left guard Coleman (C)
Brown Center Bohannon
McAven Right tackle McConnell
Hendrix Right end Crawford
Sapp Quarterback Axtell
Leggette Left half Day
Black Right half Herlong
Touchdown: Tilghman. Substitutions—For Davidson: Boggs for McAulay, Hunt for Leggette, Hewlett for Hendrix, Summers for Anderson, Patterson for Vance, McCombs
for Sapp, Wells for Hewlett. For Furman: Armstrong for Dempsey, Blackwell for Langford, McGee for Crawford, Dempsey for McGee. Officials:
Referee, Bocock (Georgetown); umpire, Streithn (Auburn); headlinesman, Sampson (St. Albans). Outside of this there was no other feature of the
game.

Literary Societies

The Junior Metrophilian Literary Society met last Wednesday evening at nine o'clock, the second meeting since its organization. This was
the first meeting for which a regular program had been prepared. An exceptionally good program was presented, considering that this
was the first time some of the men had been on the program of a literary society. B. C. Campbell
gave some very interesting current events, and H. T. Powell gave a fine declamation. The query was: Resolved, That the
Five corporations should be granted exclusive rights to control radio broadcasting. The affirmative was upheld by Guiton Smith and Martin.
On the negative side were Rod McRae and Wallace Bradford. The negative was given the decision, the judges voting 2
to 1.

Junior Eumanean Society

The program at the last meeting of the Freshman Eumanean Literary Society began with a debate on the query, Resolved,
That the Five corporations should be given a monopoly on all radio broadcasting in the United States. The negative side,
consisting of Dave Ansley, Dillard and M. Engle, won over the affirmative, which consisted of E. L. Daniel and P.
S. Thompson. Two declamations followed, the first by G. M. Johnson, who gave “Dangerous Dan McGrew,” and the second by
R. Douglas, “They Shall Not Pass.”Society

The weekly debate of the Phi Literary Society last Thursday night covered a topic of much interest to the members
and to the country at large, the subject being, "Resolved, That the Sterling-Reid Bill be passed." The debate was developed
by L. K. Pritchett and D. Currie, upholding the affirmative, as well as by S. M. Purcell and F. A.
Phillips on the negative. Despite the stormy defense of the latter, however, the decision committee, composed of Hills, Houston, and
Wells, declared the affirmative winner.

After several important business matters had been transacted, including reports by various officials of the society, it was found necessary
to adjourn the meeting on account of a conflicting Lyceum number. The new men in the society are showing up
very well, and much is expected of them.

Metrophilian Society

The program of the Metrophilian Literary Society was opened by the devotional exercises, conducted by Singletary. The topic of the
debate was "The Sterling-Reid Bill," with Kimzey and Sloan on the affirmative, and Lyerly and Guiton on the negative. By
the decision of the judges, the affirmative was awarded the decision.

The business of the evening consisted of the election of Gracey and Parker to fill the vacancies on the Debating
and Forensic Council; and the election of McCloud as supervisor of the Freshmen Metrophilian Literary Society. The attendance was very
pleasing, being the largest since the opening of the college year. In addition, greater interest is being shown in the
weekly programs than formerly.

Eumanean Society

A short meeting of the Eumanean Society was held last Thursday night for the purpose of electing officers. P. B.
Freeland was chosen president; A. Y. Bowie, vice-president; W. A. Christian, secretary; and J. D. Laws, reviewer. The regular program
was omitted, and the members adjourned for a Lyceum number.

JACK McNAIR

(Continued from page 1)

The Junior Class made the trip to Charlotte to accompany the body from the carriage to the train. The body,
accompanied by the father and mother, left for Jacksonville that evening. With a smile, wan but courageous, Jack bid farewell
to the students collected at the station to pay a last homage to their fellow student. No greater tribute could
be paid to the young man than the last words of his father, "Jack was always a good boy."

Ding: "What makes this well water so hard?"
Dong: "Being so low down, I guess."

"We cannot stand still. We must go forward, either in faith or in doubt. Our views will not change the
road we travel, but they do greatly change the manner of our walking in it."

YELLOW CAPS DISTRIBUTED BY THE COURT OF CONTROL

When, in the fall of 1922, the body of Davidson College voted to abolish hazing from their campus, the Court
of Control was instituted for drawing up and enforcing a set of regulations concerning the conduct of the Freshmen. This
court, although hindered in its efficiency at first by the lack of the co-operation of the student body, started off
strong this year with everybody behind it, and doing efficient work.

Those who have been sentenced and given the yellow cap thus far this year are E. B. Ebey, Harry Powell,
M. D. Garner, D. O. Westbrook, J. C. McNealy, A. S. Ij, Talley, C. C. Carson, and T. S. Tompkins.
Ebey, Powell, and Garner received sentences for a second offense. Most of these men have been sentenced for jibing upper-classmen.
One was sentenced for making a remark unbecoming to a Freshman, concerning the inefficiency of the lights in one of
the dormitories, and another for refusing to accommodate an upperclassman. The most serious offense charged against anybody this year was
the failure of one man to remain on the campus when "campused." The offender was given an additional two weeks.
The fact that the Court of Control has issued twelve sentences in the first month and a half shows that
it is awake and is on its job.

FOUR CONTRIBUTIONS IN 1924

(Continued from page 1)

Considering the large number of colleges in America, it is no little thing to be proud of that Davidson has
contributed four poems to a book supposed to contain the best work of the college men of today. S. H.
Williams has been in the infirmary for the past few days.

Charlotte Speedway is Attraction to Students

Usual Methods of Transportation Are Employed—Doc Brown Uses Strategy

The races at the Charlotte speedway, nine miles south of Charlotte, drew many Davidson men last Saturday. Many got excuses
and left Friday night or early Saturday morning. Every conceivable means of travel was pressed into service. At the end
of practically every period, the boys whose classes were over for the day got out on the road and started
on their journey.

The noble Doc Brown pulled the wool over the eyes of the equally noble Norwood. Doc started out for Mooresville
but soon met Norwood who, rather than let him get ahead, started walking in front of him even if it
carried him to the "Queen of Iredell County." Norwood was thrown off the trail though when Doc told him he
was going to Winston. It has not been reported as yet whether Doc got to the races by this circuitous
route or not.

It was with great difficulty that Davidson men could be picked up at the races, although they were all along
the road. Lost in the huge crowd were the faithful bloods, Jones and Robertson, who are almost in one-eyed Connelly's
class. Abe Lincoln had sweet-talked a cop and was almost on the track. He admits that it was due to
his personal supervision that no accidents occurred. On the boards itself, Davidson was represented. Goat Lewis drove his Ford Special
with fearless daring that doubtless would have brought him a high place had he not been forced to drop out
on the second lap when his third cylinder had dropped out.

The return trip was much easier. All that had to be done was to jump in and ride. In the
crowd, a good chance was stood of being mistaken for a member of the family.

Special Sunday School Class Open to Students

Class to Be Conducted in Novel and Interesting Manner

This year, as in previous years, a Sunday School class especially for college students has been organized. The lessons are
adapted to college men. Four members of the faculty are to be the teachers. Three of them are Doctor Shewmake,
Professor Currie, and Dr. J. M. Douglas. The fourth member will be either Professor Porter or Professor Wood. These will
rotate in the above-named order so that the burden of leading will not fall too heavy on any one teacher
and so that each Sunday the students may expect something new and interesting.

About three weeks ago the hour of meeting was changed from the afternoon to the morning. The primary object of
this change was to find a time more suitable to the students. The topic for study each time is presented
in the form of a lecture covering the lesson. This plan of teaching was adopted as it was thought to
be more suitable to the men of the college. Every possible effort is being made to stimulate interest in the
work. A hearty invitation is extended by the superintendent, Prof. J. W. McConnell, to each man in Davidson College.

It is deeply regretted by all the Davidson students to learn that Wm. H. Dodge, of Jacksonville, Fla., had to
drop out of college on account of sickness, after having been in the infirmary ever since his arrival at Davidson.
His mother, Mrs. J. W. Dodge, came up after him Friday and they returned home Saturday. It is earnestly hoped
by all that he will soon be well again and will return to college.
