THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

Four Alumni of the Class of 1916 (Left to right) R. D. Hughes, Cedar Grove, N.C.; Wm. Hollister, at Johns Hopkins University; G. B. Hoyt, in the insurance business in Wheeling, W.Va.; and W. F. Hill, instructor at Columbia University.

Resignation which has been concurred in by the congregation. Mr. Wilson has accepted a call to the First Presbyterian Church of Cartersville, Ga.

Alumni News
'15—C. M. Gibbs is living at Linden, N.C., where he has been in charge of a pastorate for some time. He is a brother of L. B. Gibbs, '25.
'81—Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Washington and Lee University, and his wife spent one day last week with Dr. W. J. Martin and family.
'92—Dr. Walter L. Lingle, retiring Moderator of the Concord Presbytery at Thyatira and Rowan Counties, preached the opening sermon at the last meeting of the Presbytery.
Ex-'15—J. K. Burns, Jr., is a surgeon in a hospital in Gainesville, Ga.
'18—Rev. Harry Fraser, of Tifton, Ga., with Mrs. Fraser and baby, visited Davidson.
'93—Dr. T. W. Lingle was elected moderator of the Concord Presbytery to succeed his brother. They are both sons of that Presbytery.
'22—Daniel Patrick (Pat) McGeachy was on the hill this week as a member of the Union quartet, which was here with Dr. Thompson.
'93—Rev. E. D. Brown is stated clerk of the Concord Presbytery.
'23—Arthur Vann Gibson, another member of the Union Quartet, was here the first part of the week with Dr. Thompson.

Marriages
The marriage of Milton Chandler Stith, of DeLand and Jacksonville, Fla., to Miss Etta Elizabeth Brownlee, of Starke, Fla., on July 5, 1924, has been announced. The marriage was kept secret until recently. They are now residing at 621 May Street, Riverside, Jacksonville. Mrs. Stith is the attractive daughter of Mr. and Mrs. H. L. Brownlee, of Starke, Fla. Last June she graduated from DeLand High School, and for two years previous was a student in the conservatory of the University of Florida. She is a member of Phi Beta music fraternity. Mr. Stith is a member of the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity. He was a student at Stetson University before entering Davidson. He now holds a position with the McCormick Lumber Company, of Jacksonville, Fla.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
The strong V. M. I. team defeated the scrapping Wildcats 14 to 7 up at Lynchburg, Va., on the 17th of October. The whole team fought well. Johnson was the Davidson star, a halfback of no mean ability, who made many an opponent feel the sharp claws of the Wildcats. Leech was the outstanding star for the winners.

"The Wildcats are preparing to give the Georgia Tech eleven a run for their money. A hard scrap is expected at Grant Field next Saturday. Something will be doing when the Golden Tornado and the Fighting Wildcats begin to stir up the dust in an effort to cross each other's goal."

This was the season that Davidson led the Wake Forest bunch off the field carrying the heavy end of a 21 to 0 victory.

In the year 1919 Davidson students had charge of seven Sunday Schools near Davidson. The records show that there were forty students acting as teachers in these schools.

A sketch of the life of Dr. J. M. McConnell was printed in this issue of the Davidsonian. Dr. McConnell was praised for his loyalty to his Alma Mater, and a brief summary was given of his work in the past twelve years here.

An invitation was given to the State Volunteer Students to hold their annual Conference at Davidson this year.

WHO'S WHO
Dr. McConnell is a graduate of Davidson and a member of the national scholastic honorary fraternity.Phi Beta Kappa. Since 1907, he has been in Davidson both as a practicing physician and as a professor in the college. To him is due the credit for the establishment of the department of Biology, of which he was the head for several years. He is at present College Physician and Professor of Physiology and Hygiene. During the war, Dr. MacConnell served in the army as a surgeon. He went to the Mexican border in 1916 as a first lieutenant. After going with the Expeditionary Forces, he was promoted several times until he reached the rank of lieutenant colonel. He now holds the rank of lieutenant colonel of the 366th medical regiment. Dr. MacConnell is very prominent in his profession, being a fellow of the American Medical Association, and a member of both the North Carolina Medical Association and the Southern Medical Association.

Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Psychology and Education, is known all over the United States as a psychologist. He is a member of the North Carolina Academy of Sciences, the Illinois Academy of Sciences, and the Southern Psychological Association. He has written two books on Psychology, “A Manual of Psychology Every Parent Ought to Know,” and “Steps in the Sale.” Since his graduation from Southwestern Presbyterian University, Dr. Hood has taught in several colleges and universities. He came to Davidson in 1920 from Northwestern University. During the war, he served as a member of the Board of Psychological Examiners with the rank of first lieutenant.

REV. W. T. THOMPSON (Continued from page 1)

see Jesus taking little children on His knee and blessing them. He is a real friend, who will tell us when we are wrong. Jesus told James and John when they were wrong. “We want a friend much bigger than we, who can forgive. We do not feel real friendship when we are afraid our friend will find us out and leave us. But Jesus is a friend. Peter denied his Master at the critical time in his life, yet Jesus forgave Peter. “Then we want a friend on whom we can lean—a friend to whom we can yield ourselves, who forgives. We want someone on whom we can depend to carry us through. “If I should offer you such a man, such a friend here tonight, you would take him. But you say you haven't seen Him. Yet we can know Him though we have never seen Him. The Gospels were written by men in contact with Him. They give us a picture of Him. The disciples knew Him better after He had departed than while on earth, so we today can know Him even better, looking at His life over two thousand years, than we could if He came to this campus for a week and we knew nothing else about Him. “There is a passion for reality in men. That is real which makes a difference. The reality is in the change He brings in our lives. Though you have not seen Him, yet you can know Him.”

Monday Morning

“Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin,” Hebrews 12:4, was the theme developed by Rev. W. T. Thompson at the Monday morning meeting conducted by the Y. M. C. A. Dr. Thompson emphasized the fact that no one is free from temptation. No matter upon what level a person may be or how secluded from the vice of the world, he is followed relentlessly by temptation. One never realizes how fast or how easily he is being carried down until he faces about and attempts to swim upstream. You cannot do a bad thing today and be the same man as regards character tomorrow. As in the case of an ordinary chair, you cannot remove from it one single part and leave the chair in the same shape and condition as before. He also laid stress upon the necessity of defying temptation. Do you, in the mornings, when you hear your alarm clock ringing, lay still? The man that does (Continued on page 8)

Independence

McAlister Carson, Manager

Boys make Fred’s Recreation Hall modernly equipped and morally conducted

BILLIARD PARLOR

205 West Trade Street (Upstairs)

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in your own home. Write or see Insurance Department Phone 3940 in Charlotte.

A Trust Company Charlotte, N. C.

BELK BROS. CHARLOTTE

Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits

Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants

In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50

The New Style Bell Bottom Pants

Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95

Trade With Us and Save Money