3 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1923

DEPUTATION SPEAKS TO SALISBURY HI-Y MEMBERS

The Y. M. C. A. was responsible for the only deputation sent from the hill last weekend. Nine students journeyed
over to Salisbury Saturday afternoon to talk to and work with the Hi-Y boys of that city. This deputation committee
was composed of Joe Walker, Ben Wharton, Perrin Hudgins, Jim McAlpine, and Bill Woods. They were assisted by the Ministerial
Band quartet, made up of J. H. Calligan. The quartet returned to the campus Saturday night in order to fulfill
some engagements made for Sunday, while the others remained until Sunday afternoon.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic Literary Society

The Philanthropic Literary Society met last Thursday night. The officers elected for the spring term were installed. J. Story made
his inaugural address. The question for the main debate was: Resolved, that athletics of Davidson College should be given scholastic
credit. The affirmative was upheld by D. M. Calhoun and H. B. Williford, and the negative by W. G. Houck
and E. E. Lingle. The decision was three for the negative. The parliamentary plan will be adopted at the next
meeting. The Bonus Bill will be introduced by “Red” Holshouser.

Metrophilian Literary Society

The question debated in the Metrophilian Literary Society last Tuesday night was: Resolved, that athletes, going on trips, should be
given lessened scholastic requirements. The affirmative was upheld by A. M. Hurd, H. M. McBryde, and G. M. Morrow; the
negative by E. T. Pullen, N. C. McLeod, and W. H. Matheson. Exceptionally strong points were brought out by both
sides. The decision of the judges was for the negative. P. C. Henderson, the reviewer, then made criticism of the
speakers. The society decided to go into an election of officers at the next meeting.

Pandeinic Literary Society

The Pandeinic Literary Society met on last Tuesday night with a large number of members present. The parliamentary form of
procedure was used for the first time and proved to be both successful and interesting. The main speakers of the
evening were: Wm. Cox, P. B. Walthall, and Hayden Hollingsworth.

Eumenean Literary Society

The Eu society met last Thursday night and decided to discuss the mode of parliamentary procedure. Professor Denby was present
and explained parliamentary procedure. The regular subject for debate was introduced as the subject for discussion. The new method was
found to be very interesting.

DAVIDSON MAT MEN WIN

(Continued from page 1)

Seven matches. Selser and Cromartie drew their matches. W. D. and L. P. Cox and Lindamood lost on falls, N.
G. Patterson and Vance on time. The score was 21-0, V. M. I.

Golf Course Improved By Addition of Land

Thirty-Five Acres North of Present Tract Will Provide for Two More Holes

The Board of Trustees of Davidson College, at their meeting Wednesday, February 27th, authorized Dr. W. J. Martin, president of
the college, to purchase 35 acres of land adjoining the present college property. This tract is known as the Cowan
tract, and lies immediately north of the golf course, and will be used to improve the course. Agreements have already
been reached concerning the purchase, and the land will be surveyed within a short time. This land will enable two
more holes to be established, one of which will be 550 yards long. It will permit number one to be
cut out, making the present second hole number one, the first drive being 480 yards. One of the principal criticisms
of the local course has been that it has no long holes, and the new circuit will give Davidson two.
Hole number one will be used as a practice hole for those who want to go back.

Who Knows?

The grass on the campus as it stands now was sown in 1877-78, but for several years it was treated
as a meadow and not as a lawn. In 1884 the receipts show $108 as having been received from hay
produced on the campus. Not until 1902-03 did the Board of Trustees grant the Seniors the privilege of wearing gowns
during Senior year.

Mah-Jong Is Taking the Country By Storm

A complete set in bright colors, 144 tiles, 116 counters, 8 racks, 2 dice, book of rules and instructions; anyone
can learn the game in ten minutes. It’s very fascinating. All in an attractive box, sent prepaid on receipt of
$1.00 (Canada 25c extra).

Table Covers

Very Attractive Black Sateen Mah-Jong Table Cover with colored dragon designs, adjustable to any size card table; 16 counter pockets,
striking colored stitched edges. Extraordinary value. Special price.

COMBINATION OFFER: We will send prepaid one complete Mah-Jong set and table cover as described above on receipt of $2.50.

CHINA-AMERICAN IMPORTING CO.
111 West 68th St.
New York

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes”

For Men - Footwear that is Stylish
Complete Stocks For Young Men

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

Insurance Service---

Same as last year, that is of awarding a letter.and forth between two holes, and not interfere with other golfers.
Another improvement is that the golf course will be fenced. The fence has arrived, and it is expected that it
will be around it by April. The new course will not be ready for use this scholastic year, but those
in charge state that it will probably be ready for use in the fall.

DR. W. W. MOORE FILLS PULPIT SUNDAY MORNING

Dr. W. W. Moore, president of Union Theological Seminary of Richmond, Va., preached here last Sunday morning. His text was
taken from 2 Timothy 2:2, “And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit
thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also.” He explained that a minister is not a
productive worker like a farmer, but he is like a doctor or teacher. He does not raise grain but still
he is the most important of all. Then showing that a minister must have piety, a clear mind, a thorough
training and good education, he gave and explained an outline of the courses taught in theological seminaries and closed with
an explanation of the question, “How can a man decide whether he should be a minister or not?”

Miss Mary Thompson, who is taking a Nursing course in Atlanta, is at home on visit.

Some of the members of the orchestra procured a large jug and put water into it just high enough for
the performer to procure the right bass note by blowing into the jug. In 1867-68, a year of low college
attendance, the Philanthropic Society had only four members, each of whom had one or two officers in the society. Basketball
was not introduced at Davidson until 1908. Until recent years the speed made by the trains on the Atlantic, Tennessee
and Ohio railway was such that a jealous conductor shot at a man who, riding a mule, was out-distancing his
train. In the old library in Chambers, since there was no lighting or heating in the room, the librarian during
the winter months wore a muffler and rubber shoes and kept the window open because it was warmer outside than
within. The “Rows” of today used to be dormitory buildings of four rooms each.

The many friends of M. C. Stith will be sorry to learn that he has had to withdraw from college
on account of his health and on account of sickness at home which has made it necessary for him to
return to Deland, Fla. to aid in the management of his father’s business. He expects to return next fall to
finish his college course.

Several delegations from the faculty have been sent out at different times to speak in the Stewardship Campaign. Those who
spoke Sunday were: Dr. Currie and Dr. Shewmake at Kannapolis, and Dr. Martin and Dr. Harding at Concord.

Announcing Our New Location Near Post Office Norton’s Barber Shop

What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything college men wear--real college men, not
the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring, English and American fabrics--coats on easy lines,
high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats--rain-proof. Soft hats, caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a
well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate.

MELLON’S

S. & W. CAFETERIAS Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service

There being no special business to come before the society the meeting was adjourned after the program.

Charlotte Winston-Salem Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT— Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail
orders given prompt attention. Southern Awning & Decorating Co. 9 E. Fifth St CHARLOTTE, N. C.

To those who win at least one match, Selser, Cromartie and Lindamood will win letters. These men are also letter
men from last year. Cromartie and Selser have not lost a match this year. Lindamood lost one, won one time
and one by default. N. G. Patterson has done good work throughout the season. Though he did not win a
match, he was invariably pitted against the very best men of the opposing teams, notably S. Waters, of Carolina; Midgett,
of Trinity, and W. E. PRICE 30 W. 5th St. Charlotte, N.C.

“What a whale of a difference just a few cents make!”

CALENDAR

Thursday, March 6—
7:00 P. M.—Philanthropic Literary Society. Eumenean Literary Society. Movies—Going Up. 9:00 P. M.—Reporters’ Club.

Saturday, March 8—
7:15—Movies—Buster Keaton, in Our Hospitality.

Sunday, March 9—
10:00 A. M.—Bible Classes. 1:15 P. M.—C. E. Training Class. 2:00 P. M.—Ministerial Band. 6:00 P. M.—Y. M. C. A.
Vesper Service. 7:00 P. M.—Volunteer Band.

Monday, March 10—
7:00 P. M.—Davidsonian Staff. 8:00 P. M.—Omicron Delta Kapp.

Tuesday, March 11—
7:00 P. M.—Pandemic Literary Society. Metrophilian Literary Society. 9:00 P. M.—Court of Control.

Wednesday, March 12—
7:30 P. M.—Prayer (Mission Study.) Meeting

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. “ON THE SQUARE”
