THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1924

I can furnish you with complete Radio Sets and Parts. Radiola and other Reliable Sets. Complete outfits installed on short notice. Work guaranteed. $29.50 to $500.00.

F. J. BENDER
E. CENTER AVE.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

No sacrifice bears too heavy upon us that we cannot meet it to make the lives of our mothers happier ones.
C.F. S.

Town News

President Elkins, Friday morning, addressed the convention on The Magazine of Today. S. M. Lynam, former editor of Maroon and Gold, spoke on Editorial Writing. Doctor Harper discussed the topic The College Press Fostering Better Inter-collegiate Relations, at the Saturday morning session. Mrs. W. J. Martin gave a tea last week in honor of Mrs. Hearn’s mother, Mrs. Jadwyn. The guests of the occasion were the wives of the faculty and members of the Thelemite and Book Clubs. At present, Mrs. Hearn and children are in Charleston with her mother, Mrs. Jadwyn.

Mr. Pat Johnston, son of Mr. James Johnston, has just returned to Turkey. He is one valuable employee of the American Tobacco Company. Prof. A. Currie has been sick for several days with the influenza. Three speaking appointments had to be called off on account of his sickness.

Officers were elected for the ensuing year as follows: J. M. Sanders, Carolina, to succeed L. D. Elkins, of Davidson, as president; W. B. Terrell, Elon, to succeed J. D. Secrest, Trinity, as first vice-president; S. R. Wallis, State, to succeed G. V. Allen, Trinity, as second vice-president; Ruth Hoyle, Greensboro College, to succeed Sara Thomas, Queens, as secretary; Agnes Efird, Queens, to succeed Ruth Hadley, Greensboro College, as treasurer. Greensboro College, Greensboro, N. C., was selected as the place for the fall convention. Invitations were also extended by the University of N. C., and N. C. State College. The Press Association embraces the work of all student newspapers and literary magazines in the state and is doing much to foster improvement in the management and operation of publications from a business as well as an editorial standpoint. Every college in the State was represented at the Elon conference, with the exception of Flora Macdonald. Delegates were also present from several of the secondary institutions.

VOLUNTEERS ELECT NEW OFFICERS—REGEN LEADS

E. K. Regen opened the regular meeting of the Volunteer Band at ten o'clock Sunday morning with a song, followed by sentence prayers by the entire group. The scripture was taken from Hebrews 11:1-13, after which Regen made a few remarks on Faith. Officers were elected then for next term. Nominations for president were: Patterson, N. G., Price, H. B., and Gibbs; Patterson being elected. For vice-president, Barr, Regen, Pitts, and Eddington were nominated, the choice was Barr. Eddington, Miller, and Regen were nominated for secretary, Eddington being elected. McAlpine was selected as treasurer of the band over Woods and Rice. The meeting was closed with another song and with prayers by White and Miller.

Mrs. O. J. Thies and little daughter have returned to their apartment at the Cranfords. Mrs. F. Dendy is sick with the influenza. Miss Clara Moore spent the week-end with the Matrons Club last week.

Get one before you leave school: “The LIFE OF WOODROW WILSON” By Josephus Daniels. See J. D. Laws, 204 Watts.

THE REEL STUFF

What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything college men wear—real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring, English and American fabrics—coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats—rainproof. Soft hats, caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate.

MELLON’S

S. & W. CAFETERIAS

Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty

Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT — Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.

Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”Davidson as the guest of Dr. and Mrs. CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS LINE

The screen attraction for this week is The Love Master, featuring Strongheart the famous acting dog. This is the first time the picture is rated very high by the critics. The Love Master will be shown Saturday night.

On Thursday night Mark Twain's masterpiece The Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court will be shown. This picture has been one of the most popular screen adaptations ever produced.

Miss Rebecca Wilson was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. Richards, while visiting Buck Shaw, her nephew.

Mrs. Hugh (Coach) Grey and little son, of Bristol, Tenn., were visiting at the home of Dr. W. R. Grey during the past week.

Miss Kate Smith spent the week-end with her aunt, Mrs. N. T. Smith.

Work has begun on the home of Prof. O. J. Thies on Caldwell Street.

MOTHER'S DAY (Continued from page 4)

In the perfect love that is instilled into the hearts of men in his manhood, it is today, the mother's guiding hand awakes the consciousness that often lies dormant when we are far from the safe harbor of her arms. Only the memory of the gray-haired mother in a forgotten home keeps the souls of many together. Her, they cannot forget. When the cares of life weigh heavily upon us, we recall the days around the family fireside and the happy days of youth; we still can see the lovelight in her eyes and hear the love songs that she used to sing.

At last, when the sad day comes that takes her away, we are carried on by her hopes for us; her prayers that her boy may prove himself a man are not unheard. The love that she bore for us through her earthly stay casts a halo of peace around our world-worn spirits. She has not lived in vain.

Thus we meet with common accord to pay our respects on this day, with a blood-red flower to signify that we have a mother living, and a white one to mark the absence of our dearest friend. No honor that we can pay is too much.

Miss Mike Grey, of Johnson City, is visiting her brother, Dr. W. R. Grey.

KLARK’S KUTE KIDS KUT KAPERS IN MOORESVILLE

Klark’s Kute Kids, a popular tent-show now touring North Carolina, is playing in Mooresville this week; and from all reports, the show is attracting considerable attention from the citizens of Mooresville and the Davidson students who have journeyed up to attend the performances. The “canopy artists” showed in Statesville the week previous to their opening in Mooresville and were highly praised by the capacity audiences before whom they appeared during their stay in that city.

The personnel of the show includes numerous artists, offering a wide variety of entertainment. A jazz orchestra, of no mean ability; a blackface comedian, with a laugh-provoking act; and a terpsichorean star combine to make the company one of the most popular tent shows now touring the country.

On account of a fortunate purchase, we are able to offer 50 Full Dress and Tuxedo Suits at this special price. The Tuxedo Suits come in Regulars and Shorts, sizes 33 to 40. The Full Dress Suits come in Regulars, Stouts, and Slims, sizes 38 to 50. All on sale at $25.00.

BELK BROS. CO. “DAVIDSON MEN WELCOME” CHARLOTTE, N. C.

STEWART PARK SWIMMING POOL AND SKATING RINK MOORESVILLE, N. C. COME AND BRING YOUR FRIENDS

Leaves Charlotte
A. M. 8:00 11:00 P. M. 2:00 4:30
Huntersville 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Statesville 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15

Leaves Statesville
A. M. 8:00 10:00 P. M. 2:00 4:30
Davidson 9:00 10:55 3:00 5:25
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver