**The Davidsonian**

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 28, 1924

Series of Services by Dr. Robert King Influence Students to Unusual Degree

Davidson One of Thirty Accredited Southern Schools

Personality and Power of Davidson Alumnus Makes Wonderful Meeting Out of a Work Campaign

ELEVEN STRONG SERMONS

Many Students Hold Conferences With Noted Evangelist—Admiration for Doctor King Strong on Campus

W. Lingle, Ph.D., has gathered the following statistics on the rating of southern colleges. Davidson is rated as among the best. The Association of American Universities includes the 25 universities of our country, which are supposed to have the best-developed graduate and professional schools. This association has made out a list of what it regards as “Approved Colleges,”—approved from the standpoint of scholastic standing. This list is in the hands of the deans of all graduate and professional schools of the universities. There are 167 colleges and universities on the list. We understand that graduates of any of these 167 colleges are admitted to graduate work and to graduate professional schools in the universities without question, provided the student has taken such undergraduate courses as his college offered in the departments in which he wishes to specialize at the university.

The Life Service Campaign, which was begun by Dr. Robert King on Sunday, the 17th, terminated last Friday. In addition to speaking each evening, the chapel period each morning was extended 25 minutes in order to give him time to speak then. The attendance at all services was large. Doctor King’s sermons were clear, thought-provoking, and appealing. Few have ever influenced the student body as he did.

Tuesday Morning

Taking as his text Luke 12:20, “But God said unto him, ‘Thou Fool,’” King began his talk by saying that this was the only man in all the Bible to whom God said “Thou fool.” What a fool he must have been for God, who sees the little good in the worst of us, to call him a fool! He then showed why it was that this man merited this title. It was not because he was a successful man financially. But he was a fool because he valued material things more than his soul. Doctor King then went on to say that it is not the money that a man takes that damns his soul, nor is it the money he spends that causes him to be damned.

(Continued on page 6)

Graduates of colleges not on the list may be admitted to graduate work at universities where others from the same institutions previously made good; but graduates of these colleges are not in a position to claim this right at any and all universities. This approved list is also used by the authorities of Oxford University in dealing with our American Rhodes Scholars, granting special privileges and admission to advanced standing to those who are graduates of colleges on the approved list, and denying the same to those who graduated at colleges not on the approved list.

Noted Men For Spring Meetings

Dr. W. Moore and Dr. J. D. Vander Meulen Among Speakers Invited

The Y. M. C. A. has secured Dr. Walter W. Moore, president of Union Theological Seminary, and a Davidson graduate to address the students at the regular vesper service Sunday evening. He will also speak at the Sunday morning church service.

The list of “Y” speakers for the spring meetings includes men from various walks of life and from widely separated places. Those who have accepted invitations and will speak in the next few weeks are Robt. F. Fitch, W. D. Somerville, Dr. J. D. Vander Meulen, and Rev. Franklin McCoy.

Debaters Selected For Two Freshmen Teams

Carolina and Wake Forest Freshmen Teams to be Debated Early in April

The tryouts for the Freshmen Intercollegiate Debating Team, held last Monday night, resulted in the following making the affirmative team: Williams, C. W., Branch, and Stewart. The negative team will be made up of the following men: Erwin, Wharton, and Williams, L. There were 15 men who went out showing varied degrees of preparation and many modes of attack. Professors Harding, Richards, and Fleagle acted as judges and W. M. Cox was in the chair.

The affirmative team is to debate the Wake Forest freshmen here sometime about the first of April, while the negative team goes to Chapel Hill to meet the University freshmen. The others that went out were: Currie, Rice, Gladney, Woods, Gregg, Covington, and McCutchen. The interest shown in this debate means that freshmen debates in the future will be more frequent.

Wildcat Quint Loses On Trip But Gets Into Won Column Against Belmont

Younger’s Men Lose Hard-Fought Games to Wake Forest, State and Guilford

DISASTROUS ROAD TRIP

Belmont Falls Before Fighting Wildcat Five by 33-28 Score

The victory over the fast Belmont American Legion team on Monday night, by a score of 33-28 rounded out a week of four games played by the Wildcats, the last game being the only one in which they took the measure of their opponents. Hard-fought games were played against Wake Forest, Guilford, and State, but the fighting Presbyterians were doomed to lose.

A fast game at Belmont avenged somewhat the defeats handed them on their trip.

Wake Forest Game

Smarting under the two previous defeats handed them by Wake Forest and Charlotte “Y,” Coach Younger’s Wildcats waded into the Wake Forest aggregation at their own home court Tuesday night but failed to come away with the victory. The Baptists worked as a unit better than their opponents, their offensive and defensive playing both working towards the long end of a 33 to 16 score. Carlyle of football fame led with points, throwing and passing opening the way for many other caged shots.Their passes and throws, while Pagano did stellar work as guard. Red Laird scored the best for Davidson, leading with four field goals and one caged foul, while Staley could not seem to connect with the elusive goal and did not make a point to add to the Wildcat’s total. Mac Beall, who went in for Staley, and Henry Sapp accounted for one basket each, while lending good support as guard and forward. Nappy Davis did good defensive work as center but could mark up only two foul goals. Line-up and summary:

Davidson | Wake Forest
Staley | Green (6)
Right Forward
Laird (9) | Greason (4)
Forward
Davis (c) (2) | Emerson (5)
Center
McConnell | Carlyle (8)
Right Guard
Pagano (4) | Left Guard

Substitutions: Davidson—Beall for Staley; Sapp for McConnell. Wake Forest—Timberlake for Green; Ellington for Greason; Anderson for Emerson; Daniel for Carlyle. Field Goals: Davidson—Beall 1, Laird 4, Sapp 1. Wake Forest—Green 3, Timberlake 2, Greason 4, Emerson 2, Carlyle 4, Pagano 2. Foul Goals: Davidson—Beall 1, Laird 1, Davis 1. Wake Forest—Emerson 1.

N. C. State Game

The Wildcats put their all into this game and according to many who saw it, should have won the game by rights. Spec McConnell, playing as right guard, simply ran wild over the floor, caging shots from every angle and position. He accounted for six field goals and two fouls, totaling 14 points. The game was nip and tuck during the two halves, the Presbyterians contesting every inch of the way, the fast playing of the Wolfpack. Double field goals by Laird, Davis, and McConnell ran up the Wildcat stock the first half, to where it stood 18 points to the opponent’s 14.

(Continued on page 5)

The Red and Black Grapplers Whip Blue Devil Grapplers In Gripping Mat Exhibition

Doctor Richards Speaks on Study “Y” Service

Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of Davidson Presbyterian Church, spoke at the “Y” service last Sunday afternoon. His address was impressive, forceful, and a fitting conclusion to the meetings conducted on the Hill last week by Rev. Bob King. This address, in which he impressed the need of combining vision with the duty of service, was preceded by a song service led by C. H. Monk. The scripture, Acts 9:3-16, was read by E. M. Regen and followed by a prayer by Arnett Gamble, a student from Columbia Seminary.

With the question, “What is the relation between vision and service?” Dr. Richards began. He stated that these two together make up the true Christian life, but that either one by itself would result in a one-sided man, either a visioner or a moralist. Vision and duty make a splendid combination, resulting in a splendid life in which one finds the visions of service and the desire to do them. In defining a vision, Dr. Richards said that a vision is always a call to service. He used the visions of Moses, Elijah, Gideon, and the Disciples to illustrate this statement. He said further that in a vision God causes the eyes to open and see things not seen before and the heart to burn for things before unseen.

In speaking of the visions of each man at the services of last week, Dr. Richards said, “Of the visions of the past week, if not followed by service, we are all the worse for them and the world has not profited.” Through an application of Samuel's vision in connection with the destruction of the house of Eli, he showed the contrast so often present between the vision and the service one is to do. He challenged those present to do whatever work they have to do in the light and inspiration of their vision. In his call for immediate service following the vision, Dr. Richards pleaded for a change in the student life at Davidson. “A vision is not a call to go out into the world and start all over again,” the speaker said. “A vision means to attend to the work right now, that you do as you have to do.”

(Continued on page 5)

Henry Oldys Tells of France, of Victor Hugo

Lantern Slides Shown Portraying Scenes from “Les Miserables”

Henry Oldys of Silver Springs, Md., took as the subject of a lecture which he gave in Shearer Hall last Monday evening Victor Hugo's famous novel, Les Miserables. The speaker has spent a great deal of time during the past ten years in Paris, France where he engaged in welfare work of various sorts. He served in the Y. M. C. A. in the World War. After the war, he returned to France in a post-war campaign of the Red Cross. Much of Mr. Oldys' spare time was taken up in investigating the Parisian scenes of the story which he related in the course of the evening. Doctor Lingle introduced Mr. Oldys. The speaker of the evening then began to relate, in brief form, the tale that deals with the experiences of Jean Valjean and his adopted daughter.

(Continued on page 6)

Captain Weems and His Men Whip Undefeated Trinity Team 8 to 5 in Hard-Fought Match

SELSER GETS DECISION

Coach Bailey Refuses to Wrestle Umberger Against Lindamood in Final Match of Evening

Fighting every inch of the way, the Red and Black wrestlers won from the much-touted Trinity team Saturday night by a score of 8 to 5. Trinity had previously beaten Carolina 20 to 3 and Washington and Lee 28 to 0, laying claim to the South Atlantic championship. Coach Bill Bailey's charges gave Captain Weems’ men the fight of their lives. The Wildcat offense came as a distinct surprise to the Trinity men. The score stood 5-3 in favor of Trinity before the final match between Lindamood and Umberger, going to a decision. The announcer called out the entrants, and Wildcats and Blue Devils stepped on the mat. But it was not Umberger who faced Lindamood; it was Midgette, the 158-pound wonder. Captain Weems called Lindamood off the mat. Before the match, he had asked Coach Bailey of Trinity who was his heavyweight grappler, and had been told: “Umberger.” Captain Weems held that under the rules of the Intercollegiate Wrestling Association no man could wrestle in two weights in addition to the fact that Midgette had been sent on to the mat after the heavyweight had been announced.

(Continued on page 3)

Fraternities Initiate Fifty-Four New Members

Nine Fraternities Take in Men Pledged Before Holidays Last Week

In accordance with the new ruling of the Pan Hellenic Council, allowing the pledging of men in December but postponing the date of their initiation until after the report on their first term’s work, the following men have been initiated by Davidson fraternities. These men, in order to be initiated, were required to pass at least three major tickets for the first term. A total of fifty-four men have been initiated into the various fraternities; their names are as follows:

Beta Theta Pi—W. H. Branch, A. S. Farnsworth, O. M. Farnsworth, J. A. King, R. L. Lincoln, J. F. Pinckney, W. A. Sparrow.

Kappa Sigma—J. C. Bernhardt, R. R. Glenn, J. D. Malloy, R. B. McConnell, H. O. Sapp, J. A. Simpson, Vardell Williamson, F. L. Wyche.

Phi Gamma Delta—W. A. Christian, W. A. J. Hewlett, L. B. Hope, H. Hubbard, E. E. Lingle, C. A. Long.

Pi Kappa Alpha—R. H. Buckner, M. L. Carroll, L. M. Ham, J. M. White.

Alpha Tau Omega—O. H. Green.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—R. A. Brand, V. S. Broyles, W. T. Covington, T. W. Moose, C. C. Murchison, A. T. Reeves, F. S. Wilkinson, W. S. Woods.

Phi Alpha Pi—(After May 2, Theta Upsilon)—C. R. Anderson, W. E. Bain, A. K. Harris, R. M. Menzies, R. H. Ratchford, A. C. Slaymaker. Pledge, Guthrie Henderson.

Delta Theta Chi—R. W. Edgerton, B. F. Earnest, J. C. Frierson, H. S. Frierson, W. R. Story. Pledge, C. G. Allen.

Kappa Phi—C. P. Johnson, J. H. Fowler, J. H. Hall.