THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

FEEDS? SEE W. B. BARNETTE AND CO.
We specialize in Shoes and Hose for College Men

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

JOHNSON’S COLLEGE BARBERS
Let Us Prove It
BARBER SHOP

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows
221 West Trade St.

Kampus Komment—College heads fertilize campus with remunerative idea in mind. Plans laid for raising hay on campus to feed all “horses” grown up around here. Bumper crop of quack grass expected as result of application of mesmerized lime to terra firma. Hay expected to be over students’ heads by June. Only men with private mowing machine will be allowed to roam on campus.

Duke Walthall received a shock while on his vacation. He told his fair one that his love was like “a fading earthly flower.” His girl told him to “let it wither.”

Another shocking story is told about Soph. Sullivan while in Charlotte. He stepped on a piece of fruitcake while in a bakery and a currant ran up his leg.

The royal game of Sir Bah Jove Rogers has once again come into prominence. Two early birds were seen tossing the equine bootery a few days ago. Said the milk to the bucket: “Our relations are somewhat strained.”

Gene Regen, the inventor, has perfected a flapper doll that will say, “Oh Boy..” when you squeeze it.

At the Alhambra the other night, Meserole Hurd stood up when he heard “Yes, We Have No Bananas” played. He thought it was the National anthem.

The infernal triangle at Davidson is now Exams—Exams—Exams.

Latest Song Hit—Willie get the water bucket, Papa’s eating mackerel.

Ring out, wild bells, and mournfully
Proclaim the end of William Black,
A fish and he swam out to sea,
And only one swam back.

Bearcat Trawick has lately taken up Mah Jongg. It is feared that it will have some effect on his studious habits. He originated an entirely new cuss word the other day when he became peeved at his roomie for hitting him on the head with the poker. “Mah Jongg,” he said, “do you think my head is a coconut?”

A hard luck guy is Henry Blinks,
He’s filled with stormy strife,
He wrote a letter to his typist
And—sent it to his wife.

There's many a slip between the hip and the lip.

Putting It Pretty Strong
Examination will be held this morning, etc., etc. Earnest Milton says this secret proposition has got his goat. He claims he can keep a secret alright, but don’t know about those he tells it to.

“Herpicide will save it,” encouragingly confided the sleuth to the man whose cap had just been stolen.

Tip—Your face looks mighty red, Jim.
Top—Yes, I burnt it last night.
Tip—Hot lips?

Adams (at the ‘phone)—Will you go with me to hear “Billy” tonight?
Girl—Sorry, Jim, but I can’t go. “Billy” speaks to negroes tonight.

Billie Cox says he can’t see what the girls find so funny about necking; he wouldn't want no old boy necking him.

The young man returning with his fair maiden from his first trial of the new golf course benches, was all but overcome as he reported heartily to his comrades, “Boys, the fire was certainly cozy and warm.”

Just because a man has gas on his stomach is no sign he would like a flame.

Fair One (entering the Chop Suey joint)—I smell punk.
Tom Baker—That being the case, we'd better take a private table in one of the back alcoves.

Dr. Hood—Mr. Carr, name the three kinds of reasoning.
Speedy—Inductive, deductive and seductive.

We are pleased to welcome back for a short visit, Windy the Aiken “void,” of the class of '23.

D. Barclay says the only reason Francis Calloway has him beat as a poet is that Calloway has a better ear for pens.

A simple cuss
Is R. C. Dorn—
He thinks foot notes
Are blown on horns.

“Some reduction,” remarked the little boy as he overheard the English society belle report that she lost a hundred and twenty pounds at the bridge game that afternoon.

Peter Booger (inquiring as to Miss Minnie’s whereabouts)—DidDid you see Minnie down at the post office?  
Freshman—Yes, pretty good bunch—they're putting up the mail.  
I had a date with Mary Blue, but never again, for she won't do.  
“I'm the—hie—stude in this—hie—student body,” confidently reported the stewed one to his sober friend.  
A new slant on how dead our village is: Joe Garrison, who works there and ought to know, says everything is so quiet here on Sunday you can hear the note in the bank drawing interest.  
“I read them their grades at the close of the class, and they all passed out,” remarked the professor, and his wife was horrified at this heartless act of her husband.

WILDCAT QUINT SPLITS  
(Continued from page 1)  
The line-up:  
Davidson.  
Staley (10)  
Statesville.  
Tripp (5)  
Position.  
Laird (9)  
Sipley (2)  
Davis (4)  
Wall (1)  
Center  
McConnell (0)  
Morrison (4)  
Right guard  
Boggs (9)  
Left guard  
Substitutes—For Statesville: Gilbert for Wall; Peeler for Wallace. For Davidson: Beall for Staley; Mallery for Davis; Sapp (4) for McConnell; Morrison for Boggs.  
Referee: Faul.

Carolina Game  
Carolina's experienced quintet gained the decision over Davidson's five in a nip-and-tuck affair at Charlotte, January 19th. The for had no easy task. Fouls were costly to the Wildcats, the referee giving Carolina 15 free shots as compared with 4 to Davidson. From the first whistle it was any man’s game, and when the smoke cleared away for an intermission, the scoreboard read 25 to 17 in favor of the Tar-Heels. Carolina proved her superiority in hitting the basket, as well as in breaking up Davidson's passing game. The second period was even harder fought than the first. The Tar-Heels with difficulty annexed 12 counters, while the Wildcats added 10 to their score. The final whistle found five Wildcats fiercely fighting, but unable to materially cut down their opponents’ lead. Red Laird led the Wildcats in scoring, with 13 points to his credit—5 field goals and 3 fouls. Staley played a spectacular game, adding 8 markers for the Red and Black. Boggs was the principal factor in holding down Carolina’s scoring, and in addition scoring a couple of field goals. Davis made only 2 points but played a splendid defensive game. For Carolina the scoring was evenly divided, Cobb and Greene, forwards, each netting 9 points, the flashy guard McDonald following close with 8.  
The line-up:  
Davidson.  
Position.  
Carolina.  
Staley (8)  
Cobb (9)  
Laird (13)  
Left forward  
Davis (2)  
Right forward  
Carmichael (0)  
Center  
Boggs (4)  
McDonald (8)  
Right guard  
McConnell  
Dotterer (5)  
Left guard  
Substitutes—For Davidson: Beall for Staley; Morrison for McConnell.  
Referee: Faul.

Belmont American Legion Game  
After playing only mediocre basketball for the larger part of the first half of the game with the Belmont American Legion team, at the gym Friday night, the Wildcat basketball five, led by the accurate goal shooting of Sapp and Red Laird, came back strong in the final period to a 31-28 win. The game opened with a shot from the floor by Leeper, Trinity basketball star of former years, who from first to last was the outstanding player as well as high man for the visitors. But a four-man offense of balanced goal shooting on the Wildcats’ part found the first half of the contest closing with Davidson leading 15 to 9. Here the Legionnaires showed their greatest speed and strength and Leeper and Abernathy rang up 4 consecutive field goals, placing the score...

(Continued on page 7)

College Jewelry  
Watches and Clocks  
Eversharp Pencils  
Stationery  
Parker Fountain Pens  
Pennants and Pillows  
Athletic Supplies  
Bradley Sweaters  
DAVIDSON  
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler

MONDAY, FEB. 11 AND DAVIDSON, N. C. TUESDAY, FEB. 12

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT  
CLEANING AND PRESSING  
BRANROSS  
9 Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia  
Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City  
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas  
Furniture, Rugs  
Victor Records  
Steinway Pianos  
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing  
Draperies and Interior Decorations  
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms Society Halls, Etc.  
Parker-Gardner Company  
CHARLOTTE, N. C.  
Pianos  
Player Piano Rolls

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS  
We carry a complete line of Candies  
Stationery and Toilet Articles  
WHITE DRUG COMPANY