THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

Largest Contingent of Davidson Students Attend the Camp at Fort McClellan

The largest contingent of R. O. T. C. advance students that has ever represented the Davidson unit attended the Fourth
Corp Area summer camp held at Fort McClellan, Anniston, Ala., from June 14th to July 25th. The group of 26
men included practically all of the student officers who will hold commands in the local unit during this session. Most
of the Davidson men were assigned to Infantry Company C, commanded by Captain Hearn, who for the past several years
was head of the Davidson College Military Department. Major Weems, the present P. M. S. & T., was in charge
of tactics for the entire camp. Captain Ellis and Lieutenant George were also on the staff of instructors.

The Davidson group, though making a fine record in the six weeks of training, failed to hold the cup which
they won last year. This summer the University of Florida captured the trophy. In the athletic activities at the camp,
the Red and Black showed up well. A Wildcat baseball team was formed and a challenge was issued to all.
P. C. of South Carolina responded and was defeated 11-6. Other games would have been played had time permitted. As
it was, Davidson was left with first claims to the camp championship. Harry Vance entered the heavyweight wrestling and won
out against a large field. “Kelly” Moore reached the finals in lightweight boxing but failed to win out. In literary
lines, Al Lake gathered further individual honors, taking second place in the essay contest.

The R. O. T. C. men found the six weeks’ period of training strenuous and intensive but intensely interesting and
instructive. The battalion will profit by the training its officers have received. Those who were in the Infantry Company C
are as follows: Al Lake, Lynch Huie, O. Mathewson, G. Smith, Earnest, Milton Thomasson, R. K. C. S. Furches, D.
G. Wilson, C. E. Houston, R. E. Boggs, W. A. Patterson, L. B. Gibbs, H. Y. Alexander, McCarty, T. A.
Guiton, T. B. and J. A. Thompson. In the machine-gun company were L. Bill Cox, Joe Kimsey, C. R. Thompson,
L. Deck, C. McIntosh, A. S. Jones, and J. A. Barron; and in the howitzer company H. L. Vance, Jim
Moore, and S. W. Moore.

WEST VIRGINIANS ORGANIZE AND ENDORSE JOHN DAVIS

The first meeting of the West Virginia Club was held at the home of Dr. H. B. Arbuckle last Saturday
night. It was the first meeting of the club this year and only one member of last year’s crew was
missing, Ed Buck, of Richmond. The fall election of officers was held and the entire ticket suggested by the nominating
committee was elected. The new officers are: Jim Pinckney, president; Ronald Wilson, vice-president; and Howard Arbuckle, secretary-treasurer. After the short
business session, refreshments were served by Mrs. Arbuckle. An important item of business transacted was the hearty endorsement of John
W. Davis by every member of the club.

CONGRESSMAN BULWINKLE (Continued from page 1)

The League of Nations will reduce wars to a minimum. Woodrow Wilson, who shattered his health in giving service to
his country and the world, was truly a hero and a martyr as the Unknown Soldier whose body rests in
Arlington cemetery. The Disarmament Conference held at Washington in 1922 failed to accomplish what Wilson would have accomplished had he
been given the support of his countrymen.” The program was concluded with the singing of “The Star-Spangled Banner.” Everyone in
uniform stood at salute and all others at attention. All who addressed the audience bore out Captain Weems’ belief that
the day was the greatest peace day the country has ever known.

Each year Elon has shown an improvement. No predictions as to the outcome this year are advanced, since reports from
the Elon camp are meagre. ’Lias Faison, last year’s captain, is not back to run with Capt. Nappy Davis this
year, but Tom Baker will make the Wildcat leader a good partner on the flank position.

Davidson Men Attend Blue Ridge Conference

Eight Men Represent Local “Y” at Summer Camp—Speir on Regional Council

The annual Y. M. C. A. conference for colleges was held at Blue Ridge from June 17 to 27 inclusive.
Davidson was represented by Mr. J. P. Williams, general secretary of the college Y. M. C. A. and seven students.
The students attending were: H. L. Shaw, Jim Carr, A. Y. Bowie, Benton Wharton, L. B. Gibbs, W. B. Mattison,
and Morgan Speir. Davidson was honored by having one member of the delegation, Morgan Speir, elected to the State Regional
Council by the North Carolina delegates.

The theme of the whole conference was Modern Intimations of Way Living. In keeping with this theme, a devotional service
was held each morning led by Dr. Culbreth, followed by a period of 15 minutes in which each person was
allowed time for meditation on the thoughts presented in the devotional. Each evening after supper a vesper service was held
out in the open. One of these services was led by W. A. Gamble, Davidson, ‘22, at which the opportunities
presented by full-time service were presented. At another, Dr. Trawick, of Wofford College, gave a talk on teaching as a
profession. Classes for the study of such matters as race problems, changes in China and Japan, and missions were held.
One member of the delegation attended each of these conferences. The day’s service was addressed by well-known speakers on topics
of interest and value. Among the speakers were: Dr. Sherwood, Dr. A. W. Alexander, who spoke on labor conditions; A.
Alexander, of the Inter-Racial Council, Atlanta, Ga., who spoke on the race problem; andG. W. Carver, noted negro scientist of
Tuskegee Institute. One phase of the conference which was of great benefit not only to the delegates, but to the
colleges from which they came, was the forum discussion. At these meetings, the different problems which come up every day
on the college campus were discussed. In keeping with the Y. M. C. A. motto, teams were organized by the
different delegations to compete with teams from other colleges in baseball, tennis, swimming, and volleyball. A full report of the
conference will be given by the delegates before the Y. M. C. A. sometime in the near future.

ELEVEN MEN ASSIST IN MANAGING FOOTBALL TEAM

According to the new system for electing a manager of the football team, there are at present 11 assistant and
sub-assistant managers, three of which come from the Junior class, five from the Sophomore class, and three from the Freshmen
class, with the probability of the last number increasing. The members of the Junior class assisting Manager McAlister are Martin
Teague, E. K. Regen, and L. Huie. The representatives from the class of '27 are C. C. Murchison, M. L.
Carroll, V. S. Broyles, R. H. McIlwaine, and W. B. Woods, while the Freshmen who have reported to date are
McRae, Pomeroy, McPhaul, and Flake Laird.

Flake Laird can be called, we think, a "universal" player. He started in his Freshman year at halfback, was shifted
to the line last year at tackle because of his weight, and because of his weight shifted this year to
center. In the practices, Flake has been handling the pivot position making few bad passes.

Be there Saturday afternoon at 3:30 one hundred percent strong and spur the fighting Wildcats on to make the score
0.

Commissary and Student Store Combined in One

Davidson has taken a step forward, this time the step being in the form of an enlarged student store which
promises to help in a very material way the financial condition of student organizations. This student store combines what was
formerly the commissary and the store, throwing into one building a place where the students may satisfy practically every want.
In former years, the commissary has been run by students on a percentage basis but this store is now supervised
by two students who were selected by a board of directors, consisting of faculty members and three students, paying them
a yearly salary for managing the store. Lewis and Sellars are to manage the store this year and the efficient
way in which they have taken hold shows them capable in every respect of meeting the needs and desires of
the students.

At present, the store is without sufficient capital to put in as complete a line as it may be expected
to carry later, but there is to be found there a good line of athletic goods, consisting of golfing equipment,
tennis equipment, and a special line of football shoes. As regards eats, cakes and candies and drinks may be found
in abundance. The managers have put in a full line of writing materials, with the exception of fountain pens, and
it is only a question of time until a full line of Conklin pens will be installed. In the line
of toilet articles, the store handles shaving cream, powder, tooth brushes and paste, and several other minor articles. The store
also guarantees two-day service from Charlotte, N. C. stock. Among the things to be added to the stock are a
clothing agency and a full line of army shoes. A telephone will also be installed for the convenience of the
student body at any time for any call.

Fellows, let's make '24-'25 the banner year in the history of Old Davidson. This can be accomplished only by the
united efforts of every man on the hill.

The BON MARCHE SHOPS for MEN

Bon Marche shops for men represent an important new feature of this great department store. The same ideal to present
right fashions first, and sound values always, will be constantly maintained. Earl and Wilson broadcloth shirts $3.50 and $5.00. Belcraft
broadcloth shirts $2.75. Belcraft novelty colored shirts with starched collars $1.75 and $2.50.

"Charlotte's Quality Department Store"

The Greater Bon Marche

If father did the washing just once

If every father did the family washing next Monday there would be an electric washing machine in every home before
next Saturday night. You will live in a new age—an electrical age. Heavy tasks will be shifted from human shoulders
to electric motors. Remember the letters "G-E". They are a symbol of service—the initials of a friend.

For fathers are used to figuring costs. They’d say: "The electricity for a week’s washing costs less than a cake
of soap. Human time and strength are too precious for work which a machine can do so cheaply and well."

If you are interested to learn more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete
set of these advertisements.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N. Y.
