THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

Feeds! Feeds! Feeds!
Let Me Supply Your Feeds
H. M. Johnston
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
After Every Meal
It's the longest-lasting confection you can buy—and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser for the mouth and teeth. Wrigley’s means benefit as well as pleasure. Sealed in its Purity Package.

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00
5th and College Streets
Charlotte

Scofield Tea Room
Home Cooking
Good Eats All the Time
When in Charlotte take your meals at the SGW Cafeteria

The Peanut Parcher
The following is for the benefit of the new men: The Peanut Parcher, contrary to common belief, is not a one-man proposition. It is impossible for one person to hear all the good jokes that make the rounds of the campus, and it is equally as impossible for a single person to put out a really good Peanut Parcher. Accordingly, the only thing that will ensure a witty and humorous joke section of the highest class is the co-operation of every member of the student body. We ask this co-operation from the new men as well as from the old men. Whenever you hear a good joke or a witty saying, or anything that is funny, jot it down or keep it in your head and bring it to the Peanut Parcher editor at 7 Georgia. This will be appreciated and will go far toward making this department unequalled among college publications.

It is rumored around the campus that Shorty Love has made considerable money by the simple plan of supplying the wants of the Freshmen. During the past week, Shorty sold two dozen radiator tickets, a dozen campus passes, nine chapel seats, four keys to the flagpole, a bottle of reveille oil, one left-handed saw handle, and a wheelbarrow speedometer. The Freshies are evidently as green as usual, even surpassing the fine record made by Bill Green, Bob Mitchell, and Henry Sapp, of the last Fresh class. With all this influx of verdancy, it is small wonder that the trees cease to be green.

Slim Vaughn says that Claude Sears is so dumb that he thinks pig-iron is a new kind of hog tonic. Tom Baker has finally admitted that the reason his face is skinned up is due to the fact that somebody removed the sawdust pit in his hometown, and when he jumped off the old freight train he had no soft landing place. However, that is not as bad as some other cases. For instance, Bud Lawson has to go the last half-mile on a grapevine to get home, and Fresh Nick Cotter lives so far back in the country that he could not sleep the first night up here without the showers running, saying that it sounded like the old creek that ran right under his window at home.

“This match won’t light.”
“Washa matter with it?”
“Dunno—it lit alright a minute ago.”

Queens—"He's a perfect fool.”
Converse—"Not yet, he's only a freshman.”

T. McSwain pulled a terrible bone in church Sunday. When the man came around for the collection, he wanted to match him double or nothing.

“Yes,” said Okey Allison, “I was singing once and someone hit me with a cowardly egg.”
“And what kind of an egg is a cowardly egg?”
“One that hits you and runs.”

The math sharks say that a love triangle frequently becomes a wrecktangle.

Logan Lovelace says that he drank some whiskey the other day that was so mean that every time he sneezes he burns a hole in his handkerchief.

He—"Seen the new balloon tires?”
She—"Why, whoever heard of a balloon needing tires?”

By-Jove Rogers will now render us his most heart-rending ditty for our disapproval: “They called the twins Collision, because they came together.”

No, Aloysius, a laundry-man’s mother is not a Mah Jong.

'26—"I've got a wonder watch.”
'27—"A wonder watch?"
'26—"Yeh, one that you look at and then wonder what time it is.”

Covington—"How do you rate with your girl?”
Hunt—"I don't rate and I don't expect to rate, Covington form, anyhow.”

Expectorating isn’t good form.

Red McComb’s weekly outburst:
I know just how homely I are,
I know that my face ain't no star,
But, kid, I don’t mind it,
For I am behind it,
The bird that’s in front gets the jar.

Zeke—"Why don't you paint your barn?”
Luke—"Hain't I been looking for the paint brush for two years?”

Bill Woods has a girl so dumb that she thinks “I’m Coming Home” was written by Babe Ruth. Bill says that she hasn't anything on him, though, for he used to think an Aspirin tablet was a writing pad.

Bragging Fresh—"My grandfather built the Rocky Mountains.”
Soph—"That's nothing. You've heard of the Dead Sea? Well, my grandfather killed it.”

Prof—"What was that noise I heard?”
'25—"That was a student falling asleep.”

Kissing a girl after you have asked her permission is just like getting a rain check after the eighth inning.

SERVICE SATISFACTION
That’s what we give
Cleaning and Pressing
Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

WORK ON RICHARDSON FIELD
(Continued from page 1)
game at quarter last year, is back running at his old halfback’s position, and Nick Sappenfield is calling signals. Black has developed into a pile-driving fullback and with Leggette punting like a veteran, Sapp going fine in all quarters and Lucian Wells in nice shape, the backfield seems to be well cared for. McComb and Hunt, a letter-and-star-man, are promising. Other material of good possibilities may be classified as follows: Ends: Pinkney, Bohanon, and O'Neal. Pinkney’s play has been almost on a par with that of Baker and Davis. Tackles: Patterson, Allen andMcAlpin. Patterson is to be remembered for his great game against the University last November. Allen has been shifted from the backfield. Guards: McCauley, Christian, Green, and Smith. The last two played regularly at this position for the Fresh last year. McCauley is a hard-working sub. Centers: Briggs, McConnell. Both of these men were a little late reporting on account of touring Europe. Later results are expected.

The Wildcat schedule for this fall finds three teams of last year’s schedule missing—Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Wake Forest, and The Citadel. In their stead, the Red and Black warriors will be lined up against the University of Richmond, Wofford, and Lenoir. The game with Wake Forest, for several decades the interdenominational classic of North Carolina, is not being played this year on account of conflicting schedules. None of these schools are newcomers on Davidson's schedule, Richmond having been met in 1921 and 1922; Wofford for seven or eight years preceding 1922 a regular on the Red and Black card, and Lenoir having been decisively defeated in 1910 and 1911. This game is being sandwiched in between the Wofford game on October 11 and the annual Davidson-Furman game at the South Carolina Fair in Columbia on the 18th. From reports, it seems that Dick Gurley is building a real eleven at Lenoir-Rhyne, getting stars from various places. His team will be real opposition. An eleven like the baseball nine last spring would mean many upsets in North Carolina football circles.

From a student point of view, the schedule this year is the best for several seasons, five games being played on the new Richardson Athletic field. Most of these were formerly played in Charlotte. Elon, Wofford, Lenoir, Clemson (not fully decided on place), and University of North Carolina will all be met here. For the first time, Presbyterian College of South Carolina will be met in Asheville, Rock Hill getting this game heretofore. The N. C. State game will go to Pinehurst instead of Raleigh as formerly. (The completed schedule is printed elsewhere in this issue).

The first game of the season will be played against Elon on Richardson Field here Saturday. The Christian team is to a great extent an unknown quantity. Rather authentic reports come in that only six lettermen are back, and of these only two are Varsity men; also that the team will be very fast. It is thought that something is being held in reserve, and that Coach Carboy is going to spring a big surprise here Saturday. Rumor has it that Shipp, whose circling end-runs for Trinity brought defeat to the Presbyterians last Thanksgiving Day, is working out with Elon. This is flatly denied by men who have seen the Elon team in practice. Anyway, the line will equal that of the Red and Black in weight, averaging around 165 from end to end, while the backfield, due to the minuteness of their flashy quarter, will average only 145. The probable lineup of the two teams is presented as follows:

Elon, Position, Davidson
Elder, Right end, Baker
Whitsell (C), Right tackle, Lincoln or Anderson
McCullough, Right guard, Boggs
Bray, Center, Sappenfield
Inch, Left guard, Vitec
Williams, Left tackle, Summers
Richardson or Smith, Left end, Davis (C)
Byrd, Quarterback, Hendrix or Wells
Right half, Hales
Leggette, Left half, Shipp
Fullback, Off

The officials for the game will be: Major (Clemson), Hartsell (N.C. State), and Sampson (St. Albans). The game will start at 3:30 p.m.

G. O. P. Holds Sway at Davidson Post Office
W. A. Gamble Succeeds M. W. Cranford as Postmaster—Mail Service Delayed

Since the adjournment of the 1924 session at Davidson College, the post office at Davidson has come under new hands. It is now under the Republican administration with W. A. Gamble as postmaster. Mr. Cranford was postmaster prior to the change to new hands. Assisted by Miss McConnell, he gave extra good service at all times. The students were sorry, too, that the administration had changed, knowing that no better service could be given than that rendered by Mr. Cranford.

Probably due to the newness of the job to the new post office workers, the service so far has been unsatisfactory. Many packages as well as letters have gotten tangled up in the post office here. This is probably the cause of the trouble in the mail now. Mr. Gamble has secured two assistants during the present week or two of rush and hopes to get everything on its feet in order to give the best of service in the post office of Davidson. Of course, there are lots of packages and other mail because of the arrival of so many students.

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high-tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

Follow the Crowd
Abide by the Rules of the Majority of Davidson Men
JOHNSON'S BARBER SHOP
Two Doors Below Book Store

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

SCHOOL SUPPLIES
CANDIES
CIGARETTES

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.