THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

J. E. HOWELL, JR. (Nasty) HOWELL, ’15
Rockingham, N. C.
Weight 166 lbs.

“Nasty” was one of the few, if not the only man, to ever guide a Wildcat football squad for two
consecutive years. Surely he is the only man in the 160-pound class that ever did. He was, as his classmates
said, “Truly the embodiment of the spirit of ‘Bob’ Fetzer.” His power of leadership and force of pep and energy
cannot be doubted when you consider that he not only played on, but captained a team that had a man
weighing 190 pounds playing fullback. He weighed only 166 pounds and played tackle. His main claim to fame rests, however,
on his playing in the Clemson game in 1915 when he recovered a fumble that won the game. The “Charlotte
Observer” of that date says, “Captain Howell was on the bottom with the pigskin safely in his possession. It was
the turning point of the game.” The coaches of that year were: “Bob” and “Bill” Fetzer, and Nelson Harris. Lex
Klutz, who lectured here last year, was manager.

SODA:
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

Howell is an intern at the Lenox Hill Hospital in New York.

Mr. H. L. Smith, '88 is in the awning business in Dalton, Ga.
‘03—J. F. Hurley is now editor of the leading newspaper of Salisbury, N. C.
‘05—Milton McKinnon was elected temporary clerk of the Pee Dee Presbytery at its recent session.
Rev. W. W. Arrowood, ‘03, is pastor of the Tazewell Presbyterian Church, Tazewell, Va.
Rev. J. F. Coleman, ‘06, is located at Bridgewater, Va.
‘07—Invitations to the marriage of G. Scott Candler to Miss Georgia Byrd, of Laurensville, Ga., have been received by friends.
Rev. and Mrs. Charlie Crane, '07, and Rev. and Mrs. Plumer Smith, '07, are in the mission field at Mutoto,
Belgian Congo.
During the past year, Julius Pratt, '08, received his Ph.D. from the University of Chicago, making the highest honors that
have been made in that department in 34 years.
‘08—Dr. John D. Robinson is now a prominent physician at Wallace, N. C.

CIGARS
NONE TOO SMALL
We Want Your Account
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE
Regardless of Its Size
W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
I. J. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Dr. Robinson was on the hill recently.
‘08—Rev. Le R. Scott has been called to the pastorate of the Gordon Street Presbyterian Church of Atlanta.
C. F. Arrowood, ‘09, has just completed his course at Chicago, winning his degree of Ph.D. with honor.
Rev. H. R. Boswell has accepted a call to the Statesboro Presbyterian Church, Statesboro, Ga.
Rev. M. H. Knox, ‘14, is pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Plattsburg, Mo.
P. D. Patrick was selected moderator of the Pee Dee Presbytery at its last meeting.
‘15—Rev. Mr. L. A. Crawford, ‘10, to Miss Olive Chandley, of Greensboro. The marriage takes place on October 17, 1924,
in Greensboro.
Dr. A. M. McKeithan, ‘16, of Louisville, Ky., has become a member of the Mayo Hospital staff, at Rochester, Minn.
L. G. Edgerton, ‘16, is in Roanoke, Va., Box 830.
Rev. L. H. Eikel, '17, is moving from Williamsville, Va., to Laurel, Md.
K. P. Coachman, '18, is in New York.
Rev. Fowle, ‘18, was elected moderator of St. Louis Presbytery, which met in Crocker, Mo., September 16.
‘19—Dr. George M. Robeson, graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, has returned to Philadelphia to spend two years
in the university hospital. Dr. Robeson was resident physician at Camp Sapphire during the past summer.
‘19—Chas. B. Robeson, after serving his Masters degree at Princeton, has returned to Rome, Ga., to take up his work
as professor in the Darlington School.
‘20—Joe H. Miller, who is now in the insurance business at Greenville, S. C., was on the hill Sunday.
‘20—Hugh C. Hamilton sails, in the near future, for Edinburgh, Scotland. He will have a year’s study at Edinburgh University.
‘20—J. W. Witherspoon is in Harrisburg, Va.
‘21—Houston White, having spent a year at Oxford University, will return to Princeton this year to complete his study there.
‘21—J. B. Smith is in Wilmington, N. C.
‘22—McDowell Richards will sail in a few days for England where he will take up his work again at Oxford
University.
‘23—G. Bascomb Sorrells, who is in the insurance business at Raleigh, put over a big deal recently. He sold the
N. C. National Guard a group policy amounting to $7,500,000. Mr. Sorrells has also been offered the territory of New
York for his work but he declined in favor of his N. C. territory.

The following boys are going to Union Seminary at Richmond, Va., this fall:
W. H. “Dope” Matheson, ’24.
W. P. Brown, ’23.
Guy M. Morrow, ’24.
J. C. McJunkin, ’24.
R. M. Carr, ’24.
Joe Walker, ‘21.

SWEET SINGERS (Continued from page 1)
Patton, Burgess, Martin, John Foster, Kiser,and McSwain. Second bass, Taylor, Poole, Babb, Westbrook, Fitts, Carr, Foster Earnest, and Bernhardt. A
good many of these men come from the Freshman class and, properly trained, should develop into good material. The Glee
Club will practice three times a week, Mondays from 7:30 until 8:30, on Wednesdays from 5:00 until 6:00, when Mrs.
Baker will be present, and on Fridays from 7:30 until 8:30. Manager Milhous is writing to all of the Southern
girls’ colleges and to towns en route, rapidly rounding out a trip that will be the envy of the student
body. Sometime in the near future, the four classes are going to put on a stunt night, each class and
various individuals putting on acts, the proceeds of which are to go to the payment of Mrs. Baker's expenses here.

Dr. Arbuckle Speaks To Ministerial Band
The Church Was Topic of Elaborate Address to Ministerial Students

In addressing the Ministerial Band at a regular meeting last Sunday afternoon, Dr. H. H. Arbuckle spoke on The Church.
He brought out the fact that the Church was mentioned only twice in the Bible, and these two passages referring
to the Church, Matthew 20, and Matthew 18:15-17. He explained that Christ did not found His Church on its noon,
he read 10:13- Peter, “Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God.” The attitude of the Church must
be militant, as Christ intimated that it would be so when He said the gates of Hell should not prevail
against it. From the second passage, he drew the conclusion that humility is one of the greatest Christian assets. A
persistent sinner should first be approached privately as man to man rather than kicked out of the Church. If he
fails to listen, others should go to him. If they also fail to convince him of his sin, the Church
should be told, and if he neglects to hear it, then he should be treated as a sinner and a
publican. This doesn't mean that he should be kicked out and abandoned, but he should be treated with humility as
Christ treated the publicans and sinners.

Moffett presided during the devotional part of the meeting. Pigey Martin announced that the band would have a quartet again
this year, and urged all who could sing to go out for it.

STEPHEN LEACOCK
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson is extremely fortunate in having been able to get this eminent speaker who won the friendship and admiration of
those who heard this man who understands human nature as do few others.

A $5.00 bill will purchase a policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel,
Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs, and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in your own home. Write
or see Independence Insurance Trust Company, McAlister Carson, Manager, Charlotte, N.C. Phone 3940.

Davidson, N.C. Nov. 25—The continued rains of the past few months have put a decidedly new aspect on the transportation
problem at this place. Beginning with rains that were like the ordinary kind that put Noah on the jump, the
downpours have increased their frequency such that Davidson resembles an American Venice to an extent. By order of the faculty,
each student has been equipped with a portable canoe, which can be placed in the pocket or parked at the
umbrella stand. Instead of the beautiful walks that ornamented the historic campus in days gone by, canals have been dug
and in these the students paddle merrily up to class rooms and exhibit their stuff, then return to their rooms
via the liquid route. Okey Allison, one of the most familiar figures on the campus, has been appointed traffic cop
and he rules the waves like old Neptune never did. His station is directly in front of the library building
and he has a busy time directing the traffic from his row-boat. Several of the speedier students have their private
motor boats and at least one is thinking of buying a private yacht. One enterprising student has installed a line
of hip boots which he rents out at the rate of two bits per day. These are for the shallow
water where the boats are liable to founder. With the coming of spring, bathing suits will be at a premium
and sunburnt skins quite the latest thing in men's wear. The once verdant campus is totally submerged with water and
if rain keeps up as it has, a second Noah will have to be called forth to bring forth his
ark from the garage and rest it upon the summit of Mt. Mourne, to make ready for another possible inundation.

The many friends of Mr. Malcolm Lockhardt, Sr., of Decatur, Ga., will be grieved to hear of his illness. Mr.
Lockhardt made many friends on the hill when he was working in the Million Dollar Campaign.

Special Values Being Offered in
BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE
Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $2.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money
