THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

Here and There

J. E. Cassell, ’21, is Principal of the Gastonia High School, Gastonia, N. C.

George N. Neal, ’22, is teaching this year at Jackson Springs, N. C. He was a visitor on the Hill last week.

M. Brice, ’22, is Professor of Mathematics at Palmer College, DeFuniak Springs, Fla.

J. M. Adams, ’23, is teaching in the Blue Ridge School for boys at Hendersonville, N. C.

Paul Guthery, ’23, is now taking a business course at University of Pennsylvania.

Tally Elliott, '23, who is a student of Law at University of S. C., has been seriously ill at his home suffering from pneumonia. He is now well on his way to recovery.

R. H. O. Covington, ex-’22, is Advertising Manager of the High Point Furniture Co., High Point, N. C.

L. W. Dick, Jr., ’23, was a visitor on the campus last week-end.

W. H. More, '23, accompanied the basketball team from Concord High School last week when they played the Davidson Hi girls here.

Joe Baldwin, ’23, is teaching at Pembroke, N. C.

L. Jack Hickson, ex-'24, is working in Gastonia, N. C.

J. A. Beaver and Cal Overton, ex-’24, of Salisbury, N. C., visited the campus last week-end.

Dr. S. L. Morris, is now connected with the Medical School of Emory University, in Atlanta, Ga.

Rev. J. W. Gillespie, D.D., is a member of the faculty of Louisville Theological Seminary.

The following visited the campus last week to take part in the fraternity initiation: Fred N. Thompson, ’21, of Lexington, N. C.; A. L. Wilson, ‘21; P. James, ex-’24; Dr. J. P. Moore; F. J. Brenizer; Maj. A. L. James; C. E. Kizziah; Frank Johns; Prep Younts; R. D. Hall, ’19; F. P. Hall, ’19; J. M. Gaston, ’21; H. W. Davenport, ’10.

Many alumni attended the meeting of the board of trustees here last Wednesday.

Among those on the hill were G. Scott Candler, '07, of Atlanta; Rev. E. Siler, '87, of Maxton, N. C.; Rev. Byron Clark, D.D., ‘90, of Salisbury; Rev. A. R. MacQueen, ‘03, of Dunn, N. C.; Rev. W. A. Murray, ’96, of Shelby, N. C.; Rev. A. A. McGeachy, D.D., '01, of Charlotte; N. Pharr, ‘87, of Charlotte; C. E. Hodgin, ‘94, of Greensboro; Rev. W. M. Baker, ‘00, of Mt. Olive, N. C.; H. L. Bees, '88, of Dalton, Ga.; W. A. Watt, Thomasville, Ga.; Rev. L. G. Henderson, D.D., ’92, of Albany, Ga.; W. T. Bailey, '06, Greenwood, S. C.; J. Archie Cannon, ‘11, of Concord; Rev. W. L. Lingle, ‘92, of Richmond; H. S. Richardson, ex-'06, of Greensboro. Numbers of others who expected to attend were unable because of the bad weather.

H. M. Morris, '23, is now a professor in Charleston High School, Charleston, W. Va.

The Alumni Department is indebted to Mr. Jackson for the following extract of a letter received from K. G. Tucker, ex-'23, telling of his trip abroad during the past summer. The letter is quoted verbatim.

“Through D. C. men here and the DAVIDSONIAN I keep the pulse of the Hill at hand, yet it seems like a generation since I ‘help build’ the East and West dorms.

“Last summer I took a spell of wanderlust and landed at Manila, P. I., via Admiral Passenger Lines as deck ‘dog,’ making Yokohama, Kobe, Shanghai, Hongkong and Manila as western terminus. So the sea-going fever is abated, yet not cured, for I don’t want to settle ‘til I’ve seen the show-windows of Constantinople and ‘Tut-land’ also. Not being anybody's ‘exchequer,’ nor ever expecting to be assetable to go ‘de luxe,’I have to do mine—pay as you go. "Tell the Volunteers" for me to be positive that they can love a filthy loathsome Chinese coolie before taking ship to the Orient. If any man from the U.S. does not love the souls of, and burn to help the negroes here, I can’t see his place in China.

C. R. Wilcox, now president of Darlington School for Boys, in Rome, Ga., was graduated from Davidson College in the class of 1911. He was president of the student body and did much toward advancing student government and the honor system. After leaving Davidson he was for several years connected with the McCallie School. Here he did invaluable work for the progress of that institution. In 1917 he was a First Sergeant in the 327 Ambulance Corps of Camp Gordon. In 1918 he was a Second Lieutenant in Field Artillery instruction in the Saumur Artillery School in France. In 1919 he was the assistant director in the Educational Army Schools of Gievus, France. He received his honorable discharge at Camp Lee, Va., in July, 1919. After the war was over he was called to be the President of the Darlington School, a position which he is now filling to the best advantage of that institution.

CHARLES PINKNEY SIMMONS

Charles Pinkney Simmons, of the class of '22, died with blood-poisoning on the night of March 1st at the University of Florida, where he was a student. On arrival from Laurens, S.C., friends, none of the least of which are those men on the campus now, editorial work and also the routine work of the treasury. The convention enjoyed a delightful dinner at his home, marking the beginning of a host of entertained them most hospitably.

The local circle of this organization was formed from an order known as the "Gryphons." It has at present 16 active members. The active faculty members are Drs. Sentelle, Douglas, Lingle, and Grey. The student members are: E. S. Faison, J. R. Walker, J. I. Smith, L. D. Elkins, A. M. Hillhouse, W. Z. Bradford, E. E. Boushee, W. F. Galloway, W. M. Heston, W. T. Jones, C. M. Davis, R. R. Jones. Those who remember him as one of the foremost men of his class and a personality attractive to all. Charles was a member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, and being president of that organization during his senior year, was a representative on the Pan-Hellenic Council. Leaving Davidson after obtaining his B.S. degree he entered the past fall at the University of Florida, taking a course in law preparatory to entering his chosen life’s work. It was while here that he was overtaken by his untimely death, caused by blood-poisoning. His passing touches a deep responsive note among the men of his alma mater, his old classmates, and all those who had the privilege of his acquaintance.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision.

JONES REPRESENTS (Continued from page 1)

Reports were referred to committees. Applications from Hampden-Sidney, Birmingham Southern, and Southwestern Presbyterian University were presented, Birmingham Southern being represented by the dean of the college and one student. The various committees also held their meetings Saturday morning.

On Saturday afternoon the convention entered into the executive business session. The secretarial work of the society was placed in the hands of one man, who will be paid a salary. He will have charge of the routine action was taken on a definite policy of expansion of the society. The applications of Hampden-Sidney and Birmingham Southern were favorably considered.

The constitutional committee made several changes in the constitution. The society is to publish a bulletin which will set forth the purpose of the society, a roll of its members, statements by prominent members, and general information about the organization.

After the afternoon session, the members enjoyed a delightful dinner at Beaumont Inn, Harrodsburg.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant—
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange in good faith for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490