THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

Class Team of ’17 During its Soph Year 1914-’15

Here and There

1850—Dr. George L. Petrie, an alumnus belonging to the period before the Civil War, is still preaching with his usual force and vigor at the First Presbyterian Church in Charlottesville, Va. He has been pastor at that church for 45 years.

1888—Dr. Howard Banks, LL.D., one of the editors of the Sunday School Times, underwent a serious operation for appendicitis last week at Philadelphia, Pa.

1895—Dr. R. W. McCutchen is district manager of The Cotton Growers’ Co-operative Association of County, S.C.

1895—Rev. Alexander Martin, D.D., representing Bethel Presbytery of South Carolina, will attend a meeting of the General Assembly at San Antonio, Tex., May 15th.

Lee Insurance Service--- “We Insure Anything Insurable” W. E. PRICE 30 W. 5th St. Charlotte, N.C.

1914—R. F. Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc. PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc. 201 North Tryon St.

1895—Rev. H. C. Hammond, D.D., has accepted the position as head of the department of Religious Education in Flora Macdonald College. His duties are to begin at the opening of next term.

1896—Rev. D. R. McGreachy, D.D., has recently conducted a two-weeks meeting at Fayetteville, N. C.

1910—Rev. Roy Smith recently spent a week in Richmond raising funds to complete his new school building at Blue Ridge Academy.

1912—Dr. George Howard, connected with the State Educational Department at Raleigh, was on the Hill last week.

1913—Rev. R. M. Brownlee, of Anderson, S. C., was a visitor here last week.

1919—Rev. F. J. Hay was elected moderator of Pee Dee Presbytery which recently met at Lamar, S. C.

1914—Mr. and Mrs. L. Richardson announce the arrival of a potential Davidsonian, Lump, Jr., 9 pounds.

1920—Carl H. Cathey has closed another successful year at Eufola, N. C. The school is being enlarged under his management and is expected to be put on the accredited list of High Schools next year.

1920—H. R. (Doc) McConnell is in the senior class of the Medical School at the University of Maryland and will graduate next month.

1921—Mr. and Mrs. Frank E. (Groundhog) Miller announce the arrival of a baby girl on April 24, 1924.

1921—J. E. Cassell has been re-elected to his position in the Gastonia High School.

Alumni Visitors at the Fraternities

1920—Frank Hall is the secretary-treasurer of the Hall Hosiery Mills of Statesville. He is also the secretary of the Club.

1921—George Miley is doing post-graduate work at the University of Virginia.

1921—W. M. Miley is connected with the Irwin Cotton Mill, of Cooleemee, N. C.

Who Knows?

The first issue of what is today the Davidson College Magazine was published in February, 1886, but at that time was entitled the Davidson College Monthly. The magazine has had a continuous publication since that time, the present year being the thirty-ninth. It was in 1899 that the name was changed from Monthly to Magazine.

The first issue contained thirty-three pages and probably holds the record for advertising matter as only three percent of space, the back page, was given over to this department. Instead of being edited by an editor-in-chief and his staff, the magazine was run by three men elected by each of the two literary societies.

Announcing that Davidson had recently been connected with the outside world by a telegraph line, the first issue followed with the statement that “we are told that macadam walks will soon follow.”

In April, 1881 a skating rink for the use of the 100 Davidson students was set up by one of the professors in an upstairs room downtown. Over 70 pairs of skates were purchased and the expenses were promised not to exceed thirty cents a month.

In the decade preceding the erection of the Y. M. C. A. building (now used as the armory) the freshman receptions were held at the home of the president of the college and each first-year man was expected to bring a girl.

In December, 1880, the first lawn tennis court in Davidson was laid off just north of the present Executive Mansion. This brought forth much “jibing” and the following issue of the Magazine opened with a two-page poem about Tennis at Davidson.

The first athletic contest that Davidson held with any foreign organization was a baseball game with Charlotte the day after commencement in June, 1893. Davidson was doped to win by a good margin but lost, the final score being 31-4. The game was played in Charlotte.

An editorial in the March, 1899 magazine came out strongly against co-education at that time but favoring it if Davidson could be moved to Greensboro, Charlotte, or Durham.

About 1890 the common expression for what is known today as a professor “flanking” a man was “to put the poodle on him.”

NEXT YEAR’S OFFICERS ELECTED BYC.E.T.C., The Christian Endeavor held its regular meeting last Sunday, in Shearer Hall. J. E. Deck led the class in several songs, after which several members of the class rendered short sentence prayers. W. W. Purdy, president of the class, read the scripture lesson, Eph. 6. The constitution of the class was amended to the effect that the program committee, which is to be appointed by the president, will have charge of the meetings for the next year, in place of the president. The election of officers for next year followed. They are as follows: W. E. Milton, president; A. H. Hollingsworth, vice president; D. M. Calhoun, secretary; and W. T. Covington, treasurer. A. Y. Bowie gave an interesting and instructive report on the Laurinburg Convention, held at Laurinburg during the weekend of the 20th. Bowie represented the class in Junior work, and reported that several deputations are in line for the near future. A representative of the class visited Mooresville last Sunday to arrange for a social between the Mooresville Senior Endeavorers, the Davidson Senior Endeavorers, and the C. E. Training Class. This social will take place around May 8th, and be a means of showing just what each society is doing in Christian endeavor work. The old officers have put Christian Endeavor on top this year, and the new officers have already made plans for the coming year.

R.O.T.C. News
J. A. Lake and W. C. Ramsey have just returned from the national Scabbard and Blade convention, which was held at the University of Illinois. The R.O.T.C. department has asked permission of the army office department at Washington for regular uniforms for the advanced course here. Samples have been received and the selection of material will be made shortly. New regulations for the military department will be off the press within a week. A coat of arms and a motto have been adopted by the same department. The coat of arms was drawn by W. M. Heston, of Davidson, and the motto was adopted by the Scabbard and Blade. Captain Ellis has received his orders to report to his future post. Davidson regrets the loss of Captain Ellis, because he has been doing a great service here. It will be hard to get one who will fill the place that he has occupied for four years. Not only has he done good work in the military line, but he has assisted in other lines as well. This spring he has proven of invaluable aid in coaching the track team. Captain Ellis will report to Fort Riley, Kansas, at the Cavalry school there. This is considered a most desirable assignment. He will avail himself of a three months’ leave of absence before reporting to his new post in September.

OLD AND NEW “Y” CABINETS GATHER FOR JOINT PICNIC
Last Thursday evening the old and new cabinets of the Y.M.C.A. gathered together for a joint picnic. The purpose of the picnic was to give both the cabinets a closer relation to each other and to discuss possibilities for the work of next year. The picnic was held in Jetton’s pasture, where the events connected with the feed took place in true camp style. Warren Cox acted as chief cook, and performed his duties well. Professor Fleagle and Mr. Jackson were his ablest assistants. The picnic was very successful throughout. After the social part of the evening was over, the cabinets joined for discussion in connection with future work. Professor Fleagle and Mr. Jackson, of the “Y” Board of Control, made short talks in regard to the importance and possibilities of carrying the work forward. Warren Cox, of the retiring cabinet, made some timely suggestions for remedying certain evils existing on the campus. The success of the picnic was due to the ladies of the town. Mrs. Williams was in charge and those assisting her were Mrs. Jackson, Mrs. Lingle, Mrs. Arbuckle, Mrs. A. Currie, Mrs. Erwin, and Mrs. Fleagle.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant—
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange in good faith for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490