Vol. XII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., OCTOBER 9, 1924 THE DAVIDSONIAN No. 4

Sapp Stars in Davidson Victory Over Richmond Eleven

JOHNSON C. SMITH ORCHESTRA TO AID DAVIDSONIAN

Jazz to Reign Supreme When Charlotte Omicron Delta Songbirds Appear in Local Auditorium

Prime Favorites of Students to Re-Appear and Delight all with Music

SOME JAZZ ORCHESTRA

Each Ticket Sold Will Aid Standing Debt of Davidsonian—All Urged to Come

The Johnson C. Smith University Quintette, which has entertained the students and townspeople of Davidson on several former occasions, will
return to Davidson tomorrow night under the auspices of The Davidsonian.

The old students as well as the people of the town who have heard these singers before will welcome their
return, and all new men who will hear these men will not regret having spent their time in this way.
The quintette is better known to the college students as “The Biddle Boys.” The Davidsonian is having these men put
on a program here in order to help, if not entirely pay off, a deficit made by the paper last
year. If this debt is not paid off at a very early date, The Davidsonian will have to be discontinued,
so it is hoped that everyone who can possibly see his way clear to attend this program will do so,
thereby aiding the members of the staff in removing this obstacle, and in doing so enable them to continue publishing
“The Livest Wire on the Hill.”

Tickets will be sold by all members of The Davidsonian staff and reporters. Reserved seats will sell for 75 cents.
Others will go for 50 cents. The program will last about two hours. It will be held in Shearer Hall,
promptly at 7:30. The faculty will rule that.

Among the songs that will be rendered will be: “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” “On the Road to Mandalay,” old spirituals,
slave songs, and others.

James C. Harper Cup Awarded to S. A. E.

Pi K. A’s. Runners up for Inter-Frat. Scholarship Award

The James C. Harper Inter-Fraternity Scholarship cup has been awarded to the North Carolina Theta Chapter of the Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Fraternity, which had an average of 84.18 per cent. The award was based on averages for the 1923-24 session.
The race was exceedingly close this year, only two-hundredths of a point separating the winners from the runner-up, the Pi
Kappa Alpha Fraternity. The latter had a small lead at the end of the first semester, but the S. A.
E.’s came back strong in the spring term and won the much-coveted cup. The winner of last year, Beta Theta
Pi, was third in this contest. The averages of the several fraternities follow:

First Semester | Second Semester | Final
Sigma Alpha Epsilon | 84.03 | 84.34 | 84.18
Pi Kappa Alpha | 84.81 | 83.52 | 84.16
Beta Theta Pi | 80.53 | 80.84 | 80.68
Phi Gamma Delta | 81.61 | 79.12 | 80.36
Kappa Alpha | 80.00 | 80.44 | 80.22
Kappa Sigma | 76.48 | 75.65 | 76.06

James Cunningham Harper, ’15, of Lenoir, N.C., is the donor of this cup. He was a leader on the campus,
in the class of 1915.

Former Red and Black Athlete Makes a Fine Talk Before Students

Rev. J. T. Pharr of Gastonia Speaks at “Y” of Matthew’s Life

IS POPULAR SPEAKER

Graduate of Class of '12 Made Enviable Athletic Record While at Davidson

Everyone who attended the Y. M. C. A. service last Sunday evening heard a very interesting and helpful talk given
by Rev. J. T. Pharr, pastor of the Franklin Avenue Presbyterian Church of Gastonia. Rev. Mr. Pharr is a Davidson
man, having finished here with the class of 1912. While here he was a varsity football man, taking care of
the position of fullback with such skill that he made a name for himself during his whole college career, and
is still talked of as one of the best athletes that Davidson ever produced.

Harry Price, president of the “Y,” introduced the speaker, stating that Mr. Pharr spoke here two or three years before
he came to Davidson and that they were still talking of his speech when he was a Freshman here.

Taking for his text Matthew 9:9, the speaker read the verse in which Matthew told of his own conversion. “This
scripture gives Matthew's modest way of telling of his own conversion,” said Mr. Pharr. “This was a red-letter day in
the life of St. Matthew.” The hearers were urged to look into that verse with the speaker for a few
minutes and to think about it. “If we read between the lines, we will find that Matthew leaves much untold.
Matthew was a man that was despised because he was a tax collector. He had no hope in God, was
not saved, and had very few, if any, friends. A tax collector in that day was a man that was
hated and rejected by all who knew him. The very title made him an enemy of mankind. Before Jesus came
to Matthew and said, ‘Follow me,’ Matthew had heard of Him. He had a hunger for Christ as every man
and woman has—a hunger which Christ alone can satisfy. Jesus can offer you and me peace as He offered it
to Matthew. Why did Jesus go to Matthew? Jesus went to Matthew because He knew him. Matthew had already decided
to accept Jesus if he had a chance, so when Jesus said, ‘Follow me,’ Matthew rose and followed Him.

“Matthew gave up home, business, money, friends, position, and the ease and luxury in which he lived to follow Jesus.
He counted the cost beforehand and had decided that he would profit if he followed Jesus. Matthew took Jesus at
His word and followed Him. Soon after his conversion, he gave a feast and invited Jesus and his friends. Jesus
was rebuked for eating this labor with publicans and sinners. Jesus came to those in need and gave them a
helping hand whenever they needed Him. If no one loves you or cares for you, just remember that Jesus is
yearning for you and begging you to let Him take you back to the Father’s heart.

“Why did Jesus go to Matthew? Why did Matthew go to Jesus? Jesus needed Matthew, and Matthew needed Jesus. Jesus
needs you and wants you. Jesus is calling you.”

Kappa Initiates Five Men of ’25

W. M. Gracey, A. W. McAlister, A. M. Martin, R. W. Oeland, and W. C. Ramsey were received into Delta
Circle of the Omicron Delta Kappa Society at the regular fall initiation held in the Phi Gamma Delta hall Tuesday
evening. These five men complete the membership of the local circle for the year 1924-25. All of these men are
leaders in the activities of the campus and well merit the honor bestowed upon them. They are recognized as leaders
in the athletic, literary, and social life of the college.

Gracey has for years been the outstanding star on the Wildcat track team and captains the cinder team this year.
During the past three years, Gracey has won first place in the pole vault, high hurdles, and javelin throw at
the state meet. He also placed in the high jump and has placed in the shot put in other meets.
He is the most versatile athlete in the State. Gracey is also Senior Class secretary and treasurer.of the football team
this fall, and a leader in the life on the hill. During his junior year, he played in the backfield
but was forced to drop the grid game because of his health. Zander was treasurer of the class in his
junior year and had charge of the financials for the Junior Speaking. He is a member of the Pan Hellenic
council this year. Martin is manager of the dramatic and glee clubs and editor-in-chief of the Davidson College Magazine. He
has featured in Davidson's musical and dramatic shows since he first entered college. He is a member of the Sigma
Upsilon literary fraternity and has worked hard on all of the college publications. Piggy holds the vice-presidency of the Senior
Class and is a member of the "Y" Cabinet. Ocland is manager of the basketball team this winter. Bub has
held office for the class for two years as secretary and treasurer of the Sophomore Class, and vice-president of the
Junior Class. He is the vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. and the president-elect of the Pandeinic Literary Society.
His influence is felt in every line of campus activity. Ramsey has the difficult job of head of the Court
of Control. In this capacity, he has charge of the Freshmen. Last year, Ramsey averaged over 95 and made the
Honor Roll. He is president of the Eumenean Literary Society and a member of the Scabbard and Blade military fraternity.

(Continued on page 5)

CLASS BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
October 3rd - Soph-Junior
October 10th - Fresh-Senior
October 14th - Soph-Senior
October 17th - Fresh-Junior
October 21st - Junior-Senior
October 30th - Fresh-Soph
November 4th - Fresh-Senior
November 7th - Soph-Junior
November 11th - Fresh-Junior
November 14th - Soph-Senior
November 21st - Fresh-Soph
November 25th - Senior-Junior

Severe Penalties at Crucial Moments of Game Hold Down Wildcat Score 7-0

Stunt Night Sponsored by Glee Club in Fall Festival on Oct. 17th
Glee Club Expects to Uncover Material in Performance of Amateurs

PROSPECTS BRIGHT
Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker Sees Bright Prospects of Banner Year for Local Glee Club

The 1924-25 Glee Club has started out in business-like fashion. Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker held her first practice here last
Wednesday night, which she promises will prove to be a banner season for the organization. She says the club gives
every indication of being a fine music-making body. Baker saw what the club did last year, and with so much
new and promising material, she believes this year’s musicians will make good in their engagements. There are a good number
of experienced men back this year who have proved their worth before. Joe Karnest will start on the symphony orchestra
this week. The symphony has in Joe a man who knows his job and who will give his best. He
has been a stand-by for the glee club for the last two or three years. Last year’s symphony was unusually
good. Some of the old men are gone, but there are some bright prospects in some of the new men.
The musicians not only intend to have a good club, but also a good schedule. Plans are now under way
for a southern trip in December, with engagements in Spartanburg, Atlanta, Gainesville, Gastonia, and Rome. In connection with the Davidson
Club, the students will hear the Glee Club, which will give a program here on the night of November 20th.

Stunt Night is scarcely a week and a half hence. That night, the 17th of this month, if rumor is
true, will be something extra. A variety of good stunts are already on the program. The new talent of the
college will then have a good chance to show up. As a rule, the glee club makes a good find
every year in the stunts that are pulled off on that night.

The Dramatic Club will present on Stunt Night a one-act play, entitled "The Little Milliner," written by E. J. Erwin.
The setting of the play is the millinery department of a small-town store. The cast is as follows:
Betty Bryant, a little milliner - Grace James
Mary Evans, an amateur widow - Nina Holt
White Echols, a professional widow - Katherine Mathews
Sarah Luke Nelson, Department Store Proprietor - B. Deal
Ed Nelson, his son - V. J. Guthery

The Thelemite Club met on Friday afternoon at the home of the president, Mrs. Fleagle. The program for the ensuing
year was announced and new books selected. Captain and Mrs. Daughtery and Miss Orrie Steele were elected to membership in
the club. One of the interesting meetings will be in the form of a ‘possum supper at Cox’s Mill in
the latter part of October.

Savory Stars for Losers With Brilliant 60-Yard Dash Around End
SAPPENFIELD INJURED
Brassie Baker Plays Great Game at Tackle—Captain Davis and Leggette Star

After playing the first half of Saturday's game in a spectacular up-and-tuck fashion, the Davidson Wildcats uncorked a powerful offensive
in the third quarter that swept the heavier Richmond Spiders before them for 54 yards and won the game by
a 7-0 score. The winning play came after Sapp and Jim, ripping the tackles for gains, and Wick Black bucking
the ball for first down, had placed the pigskin on the Richmond line. Henry Sapp, playing college ball in his
hometown of Winston-Salem, took the ball, sidestepped the line, and twisting free, stiff-armed his way for 17 yards around Captain
Davis’ end for the winning touchdown. Hendrix kicked the ball from Black’s hands for the extra point.

Davidson was held off the last marker by repeated penalties which always came at the most telling time. In the
first half, following an exchange of punts in which Leggette was steadily gaining on the Richmond back, Davidson finally got
the ball on the defenders’ 45-yard line. The team opened up, carrying the ball to the 13-yard line, when Sapp
was carried from the field with an injured knee. A penalty and a fumble sent the ball back 10 yards,
but Hendrix got off a marvelous cut-back end run to the Richmond three-yard line. However, Davidson was called back to
the 36th marker on a penalty. Two plays following this came the longest play of the game.

(Continued on page 6)

E. J. Heath is to Speak On Czech Reconstruction
Salem College Professor to Tell I. R. C. of Czech’s Part in Rebuilding Europe

Prof. Heath, of Salem College, has been secured by the International Relations Club to deliver an address in Shearer Hall
on Thursday evening at 8:00 o'clock. His address, on the subject "The Contribution of the Czechs to the Reconstruction of
Europe," is certain to be informative as well as interesting, and a large attendance is expected. Professor Heath has been
identified with the History Department of Salem College for the past 11 years and has served as executive secretary to
the faculty of the Winston-Salem institution for a number of years also. Born of English and American parentage in the
Danish West Indies, now the property of the United States, Professor Heath has led an interesting and useful life. He
was prepared for college in Yorkshire, England, and later graduated from both the Moravian College and the Moravian Theological Seminary
at Bethlehem, Pa., with high honors. For 10 years after the completion of his course in the Theological Seminary, Professor
Heath was a leader in educational work in the British West Indies.

(Continued on page 3)
