THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924

"The Reel Stuff"

The Greatest Screen Attraction of the Age!

“HUNCHBACK” TO BE SEEN HERE TOMORROW

All Who Have Seen Great Film Epic Predict Record Success Locally

The first opportunity of seeing the massive production which swept into overnight fame in New York and made the critics use up nearly the entire stock of laudatory adjectives in the English language in their reviews will be Friday. As a general rule, Broadway does not always spell success here, but local theatre-goers who visited the Astor Theatre in New York, the first of the metropolitan runs, expressed the opinion that the hit will be even greater here, where Hugo's great work is so widely known. Seems like this is a reflection on Gotham's literary leanings.

From all advance accounts, Universal has all the ingredients of a great success—a story that is internationally famous, replete with action, albeit somewhat gruesome, the greatest of character stars in Lon Chaney, an excellent supporting cast, studio facilities, and unlimited funds. It may be divulging a trade secret, but it has leaked out that Universal, to guard against the least chance of adverse criticism, called in the director of New York's greatest cinema houses and one of the leading newspaper editors and had them do the final touches. The result is said to mark the dawn of a new day in cinema art and one that has made Carl Laemmle's slogan of “Better and finer productions” an absolute fact.

Lon Chaney, admittedly the finest interpreter of unusual character roles on either stage or screen, plays the stellar part of “Quasimodo,” with Ernest Torrence as “Clopin, the underworld king,” and Patsy Ruth Miller as “Esmeralda.” Seventy-two other noted performers have featured parts, while 200 players interpret smaller roles with the mob scenes numbering slightly in excess of 3,500 persons. Some idea of the immensity of the production can be obtained when it is stated that the entire Cathedral of Notre Dame was reconstructed at Universal City, as well as eight blocks of Parisian streets and houses of the time of Louis XI. The total cost was a trifle less than $1,500,000. Here Friday and Saturday nights, March 28th and 29th.

TWO DELEGATES (Continued from page 1)

Among the things discussed at the conventions are the maintenance of school spirit, the financing of college publications, and various other student body problems of greater or smaller magnitude. It is rumored that the delegates from Davidson will bring up the question of paying college athletes during the next convention. Should this be done, Davidson’s firm stand against such practices will be more expressed than ever before.

At the last convention, held at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville on April 27th and 28th last year, there were sixteen of the leading Southern colleges and universities represented. Officers of the association elected at that meeting to serve during the year 1923-24 were Estes Kefauver, University of Tennessee, president; George W. Milan, University of Florida, vice-president; and P. C. Beatty, president of the student body of N.C. State, secretary and treasurer. Under their guidance, the federation has experienced considerable growth during the past year.

Small Colleges Favored By Rules of Commission

Relations Between Colleges Further Discussed by College Conference

Several important details developed from the meeting of the North Carolina College Commission, held in Greensboro, N.C., on Friday, March 21st. Definite steps were taken during this meeting to shape the policy of the relations between colleges of North Carolina. Representatives were present from the University of North Carolina, N.C. State, Trinity, Wake Forest, Davidson, Guilford, and Elon.

The existing rule whereby a student must be a resident at a school for one year before engaging in athletics was vigorously opposed by Elon and Guilford on the ground that their student bodies were so small that it was too severe a burden and a strain to look to only three classes for their varsity material. The commission decided that in schools of 400 students or more, Freshmen would not be allowed to play upon a varsity team, but in colleges of a smaller student body, Freshmen could play (the clause that included Freshmen in schools of 400 or more). However, for all other men, a one-year residence would be necessary for eligibility to the teams, which was held to remain in force.

It was further ruled that a man who makes a team and does not remain in the school for at least six months is not eligible for a place upon a varsity team until he has entered and continued to attend for another six months. A second reservation was made in favor of the smaller colleges. It was to the effect that a man may make the varsity team in one given sport for four years, while in other sports, only three years of varsity athletics would be allowed.

The question of professionalism was brought to the attention of the committee. Action was taken to the effect that no player was to receive, in any way, compensation for his work on the team. Further than this, no man who had played for money upon any team, said team playing under the rules of the National Baseball Commission, would be allowed to participate in college athletics, since he would then be judged a professional.

Davidson College was represented at the Greensboro meeting by Dr. J. L. Douglas, faculty advisor for the athletic interests of the college.

NORRIS WILL AWARD

The highest athletic honor obtainable by a Davidson College student. The recipient of the award will be acknowledged as the best athlete in college. Complete rules for the award of the trophy are as follows:

The Norris Athletic Trophy for 1923-24 will be awarded at Commencement 1924 under the following regulations, to the student who most distinguishes himself in athletics during the scholastic year 1923-24.

1. The Norris Athletic Trophy Committee, made up of the Director of Athletics, the Chairman of the Faculty Athletic Committee, the Graduate Manager of Athletics, the President of the Student Body, and the Alumni Secretary, with Mr. Frank E. Lowenstein, of Atlanta, Ga., as ex-officio chairman, shall have charge of the details of awarding the trophy. In the absence of the ex-officio chairman, the Director of Athletics shall preside at all meetings of the Committee. The Alumni Secretary shall act as secretary to the Committee and shall keep a record of all proceedings.

2. To be eligible for the Trophy, the prospective recipient must have attained a passing grade on at least seventy percent of his scholastic work carried during the year.

3. The winner shall be determined by a popular vote of the student body in a primary election to be held during the first week in April, and in a final election to be held at the same time and place that balloting occurs for the election of officers of the student government.

4. The three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary election shall be considered as candidates for the Trophy and shall enter the final election to be held simultaneously with the election of officers of the student government.the student government as above provided.

5. Each regularly enrolled student of the college may vote once for the candidate of his choice in the primary by writing the said candidate’s name on the ballot prepared for that purpose and depositing the same in the ballot box; but after the field of candidates has been narrowed to three by the primary, only the three men receiving the highest number of votes shall be considered in the final election.

6. Ballots for the final election shall carry the names of each of the three candidates, and the voter shall indicate his choice by a cross mark (X) after the name of the candidate for whom he elects to vote.

7. Balloting in both the primary and final election shall be conducted by representatives of the Norris Athletic Trophy Committee. Immediately after the primary, the Committee shall determine from the count the three candidates to enter the final election. Their names shall be published in the students’ newspaper, “The Davidsonian,” and shall also be posted on College bulletin boards.

8. If the three men receiving the highest number of votes in the primary do not meet the standard adopted, the committee may substitute the names of the next highest men whose scholastic work meets the requirement. In determining the scholastic standing of a student, the Committee shall be guided by the records on file in the Registrar's office. All expenses incurred in holding both the primary and the final election, such as the cost of printing the ballots, etc., shall be borne by the Davidson College Athletic Association. The name of the winner of the Trophy shall be given to the commencement program committee to be printed in the program, and the Trophy shall be awarded along with other medals, etc., at the commencement.

REPORTERS CLUB MEMBERS ENTER FORENSIC CIRCLES

A feature of the last meeting of the Reporters’ Club was a debate on the question, Resolved, That a plan should be adopted whereby the colleges should exchange news in time for the weekly publications. Bowie and Garrison, of the affirmative, were defeated by Regen and O'Connor, of the negative. A plan of this kind has been considered by the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, but the action taken upon it has always been unfavorable.

Literary Societies Metros Win

The annual Fresh-Soph debate began last Tuesday night, March 18th, in the Phi Hall, when the Metrophilian won over the Pandeinic, administering the first defeat ever suffered by that society. A. M. Hurd presided as chairman, and A. H. Hollingsworth acted as timekeeper. The question was a very live one and a great deal of heated discussion was the result of much preparation and study on the part of the speakers. The query, Resolved, That the U.S. should adopt the Bok Peace Plan without change, was upheld on the affirmative by H. L. Shaw, W. E. Milton, and W. H. Bordeaux, of the Pandeinic Society, while R. B. Parker, Claude McIntosh, and E. T. Pullen successfully upheld the negative. Dr. Porter, Dr. Currie, and Professor Wood were the judges and they rendered their decision in favor of the negative by a two to one vote. The teams were well matched and all points received thorough discussion. Buck Shaw was the medallist for the Pandeinic Society, and each speaker on the winning team received one vote as being the best speaker.

Eu-Phi

The Fresh-Soph debate semi-finals between the Eumenean and Philanthropic literary societies took the place of the regular meeting of the societies last week. Paul Story, president of the Philanthropic, presided at the meeting, which was held in Eumenean Hall. The Eumenean team, which upheld the affirmative of the question, Resolved, That the Bok Peace Plan should be adopted as it now stands, won a unanimous decision. The Philanthropic trio, B. U. Ratchford, W. R. Story, and J. Barrington represented the Phis, and C. F. Bell, W. C. Ogden, and W. Shewmake were the Eumenean debaters. B. U. Ratchford was awarded the Fresh-Soph Debater’s Medal for the losing side. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Dr. I. I. McCutcheon, and Dr. C. M. Richards acted as judges. The Eumenean team will meet the Metrophilian aggregation in the Fresh-Soph finals at an early date.

Metrophilian

The installation of spring term officers was the first item on the Metrophilian program last Tuesday night. Angus McBryde was inducted into the office of president, succeeding Reginald Price. President McBryde made a short inaugural address. The regular debate for the evening was on the query, Resolved, That the United States should provide adjusted compensation for the Veterans of the World War. Angus McBryde and C. E. Hodgin, upholding the affirmative, won the decision over H. C. Lawson and M. W. Trawick. With the beginning of the new term of officers, the Metrophilians will initiate into their society the new plans submitted by Alpha Phi Epsilon Literary Fraternity.

Pandeinic

The meeting of the Pandeinic Literary Society last Tuesday night was pronounced as one of the best meetings held under the new plan. The question for discussion was, Resolved, That the United States should provide adjusted compensation for Veterans of the World War. H. G. Goodykoontz, L. L. Deck, and J. L. Moore, of the Whig party, and T. S. McPhail, L. P. Cox, and A. H. Hollingsworth, of the Tories, made heated speeches during the meeting. It is reported that at one time in the meeting 12 members arose to speak at one time. The bill was passed by the house by a vote of 14 to 9.

DIAMOND OUTFIT READY

(Continued from page 1)

some remarkably good fielding ability, as well as being able to swat several hits out during every practice session. Tom Morrow will undoubtedly hold down center. He is the best man on the squad and can always be depended on to come through with a bingle in a pinch. For right field there will be more dispute. During the past few days three men have been showing up well. The absence of Frank Alford makes it necessary to find someone else. Wells, Hastie, Blue, and Kimbrough have all been showing up well and any one of the four may start in the opening contest. Coach has intimated that he would use one of the pitchers in the outfield if necessary. The catcher problem has not yet been solved. Kelly Johnson, who last year caught for Oak Ridge, is showing up best and is the choice for the position, but he will be barred from at least seven of the games on account of conference rulings. Either Frank Alford or Summers will take his place in the other games.

THE UNIVERSAL CAR

Make Delivery Certain

With the entire factory output of Ford Cars being absorbed as rapidly as the cars can be produced, it is certain that plant capacity will be greatly over-sold when spring buying reaches its highest point. We advise that you place your order at once, taking advantage of your dealer’s first opportunity to make delivery.

SEE THE NEAREST AUTHORIZED FORD DEALER

Detroit, Michigan

If you do not wish to pay cash for your car, convenient installment terms can be arranged. Or you can enroll under the Ford Weekly Purchase Plan.