THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924

ROCK CLEMSON On to Charlotte

WALTON HOTEL New - Modern Rates $1.00 and $2.00 5th and College Streets Charlotte

H. M. JOHNSTON FANCY GROCERIES See Me for Feeds Phone 20

It stimulates appetite and aids digestion. It makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy
feeling after hearty eating. In its Purity Package

When in Charlotte take your meals at the GW Cafeteria

SERVICE SATISFACTION That’s what we give

Cleaning and Pressing Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank Charlotte, N. C. 3% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit Checking Accounts Invited

Prof.—"And now, gentlemen, we get X equal zero.” Tom Baker—"Gosh, all that work for nothing.”

Her—"What is the difference between a flea and an elephant?” Him—"I'll bite. Why?" Her—"Well, an elephant can have fleas on
him, but a flea cannot very well have elephants on him.”

Kid Lyerly’s latest song hit: "They don't allow brunettes in the grandstand so I took her to the bleachers.”

Smith—"Yes, I'm engaged to be married, and I've only known the girl two days.” Jones—"What folly!" Smith—"Ziegfeld’s.”

Huie—"Do you sing in the glee club?" Montgomery—"Yes." Huie—"What?" Montgomery—"Whatever the rest sing.”

Earnhardt—"Terrible! Why, I've never played golf this bad before.” Caddie—"So you've played before, have you?”

Dumb—"What did Longfellow mean when he said, 'Tell me not in mournful numbers'?" Scell—"He must have just received his mid-term
report.”

Stude—"I would like a good golf story.” Librarian—"How about Churchill’s 'The Inside of the Cup'?”

"Personality is what gets women these days.”

Would you call a train of Climax plug tobacco a chew-chew train?

Preacher—"Is your faith perfect?" Co-Ed—"Goodness, no. I have to paint it twice a day.”

Young Bride—"I wish to complain about the flour that you sold me. It was tough.” Grocer—"Tough, ma'am?" Y. B.—"Yes, tough.
I made a pie the other day and my husband could hardly cut it.”

Piggy Martin—"I'm going to New York over the week-end to have my eyes treated.” Prof.—"Send us a program.”

Judge—"And what are you here for, young man?" Soak—"Hic—fragrancy, your honor, I've been—hic—drinking perfume.”

Variety is the vice of life.

They are telling it on Julian Briggs that out in the country where he lives that his folks move so
much that every time a wagon drives up in the back yard all the chickens flop over on their backs
and hold their feet up to be tied.

As a means of boosting the death rate the appendix has long since given place to the accelerator.

A member of the faculty has suggested ivory and green as the Freshman colors.

The Charge of the Bright Brigade (With apologies to Tennyson and Co.)

1
Half a trig, half a trig, Half a trig onward, Into the valley of math Strode the “green” hundred; Forward
the bright brigade “Charge for the boards,” he said, Into the valley of math Strode the green hundred.

2
Forward the Bright brigade Was there a man dismayed? Even though the Freshie knew Someone had blundered, Theirs not to
make reply, Theirs not to reason why, Theirs but to bluff and try. Into the valley of math Strode the
green hundred.

3
Profs to the right of them, Profs to the left of them, Profs in front of them Hollered and thundered;
Stormed at with x's and y's Boldly they strode and well, Into the jaws of math Into the mouth of
Hell Strode the green hundred.

4
Flashed all their crayons bare, Flashed as they stood there, Sab'ring the examples queer Charging a calculus While all the
rest wondered; Then with a master stroke Right through the proposition they broke Square root and radius Reeled from the
crayon stroke Shattered and sundered. Then they strode back, but not, Not the same hundred.

5
Stormed at with x’s and y's While many a freshie fell They that had thought so well; Came from the
jaws of math Back from the mouth of hell All that was left of them Left of the green hundred.6

When can their glory fade?
Oh, the wild charge they made,
All the rest wondered;

SHOWING WARREN’S of Philadelphia
TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

GET YOUR TUXEDO FOR THANKSGIVING DANCES
Special Top Coats $25.00
Made To Order Suits $35.00
Monday, November 10th
JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.
Formerly of Guilford’s
103 WEST

Just received a new shipment of
Manhattan Shirts in Broadcloth, Stripe, and Flannels
Come in and look them over
The Globe Clothing Co.

Honor the charge they made
Honor the Bright Brigade

Noble green hundred,
Ride in Buicks and Queen of Spain—
"My gracious! The baby Hudson has a pain in his stomach!"
Attendant—"Call for the Secretary of the Interior."

Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips

There was a young lady named Liza,
So pretty no one could despise her.
When her best beau does call
He sits by the wall
And eyes her, and eyes her, and eyes her.

Harry Estridge—"Dearest, no one will ever know how much I love you!”
Voice under sofa—"Huh! Dad will know it if I don't get a quarter.”

Mrs. New Bride (as husband prepares to swim)—"Don't go farther than the horizon, will you, darling?"

A Refined Dining Room for Particular People

STRAWBERRY SURPRISE (Recipe)
Pick the bones out of a quart of strawberries, add two pounds of borrowed sugar, a pint of oyster shells,
and 3 raisins. Taste the results and, if it's good, it will be a Surprise.

Cyclone Vrawick says his idea of hard luck is a fellow who caught the seven-year itch for the fourth time
on his 21st birthday.

COLLEGE WILL OBSERVE (Continued from page 1)
As second lieutenant in the fifty-ninth infantry, and led his unit in the second battle of the Marne, and in
the fighting around St. Mihiel and Meuse-Argonne. He was seriously wounded in the Meuse-Argonne on October 6, 1918; and remained
as a patient in the government hospitals until July 29, 1919. Mr. Lockhart will appear before his Davidson audience with
a store of first-hand information, and a record of service and heroism behind him.

Dr. C. M. Richards, of Davidson, has been secured to talk on Davidson College, and his address will probably take
the form of a historical review. It is very fitting that the eighty-seventh anniversary of the college be commemorated with
a review of its unique history and traditions. Professor C. W. Brown will discuss the Patriotic service rendered by Davidson
College during the Great War. The exercises will close with the singing of the college anthem “Davidson.” The program as
arranged by the special committee, consisting of Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, Dr. Thos. W. Lingle, and Professor A. Currie, will
fill only two hours, and at 11 o'clock the students will be dismissed for a half-holiday.

The U. of F. contingent at Camp McClellan this summer piled the highest general average in soldiering and won by
a handy margin over all the colleges of the Fourth Corps Area. As is quite obvious, the Florida boys were
near the top in all departments of the game that go to make an efficient officer.
The Florida Gator.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In
Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s, and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
Come to see us for your needs in

Carrere Arr
