Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 23, 1924 No. 6

Merriment Reigns Supreme at Annual Stunt Night Performance
Joy Provided Students by Class Stunts and Feature Acting

GLEE CLUB BENEFIT
Play by Professor in English Department Presented by Members of Dramatic Club

Stunt Night went over immensely last Friday judging from the laughter and applause that it brought out in its audience. Shearer Hall was packed by 8:10 with everyone scanning the large program which was suspended from the arc of the stage and wondering just what the entertainment would be like. The College Glee Club sponsored the affair this year with the intention of raising funds for their several trips. Piggy Martin, president of the club and manager for the Stunt Night affair, reports that the financial result is even better than he expected. Later on the Glee Club will give a concert here to further strengthen their treasury.

At 8:15 the first act of the thirteen began. Cable Russell made the piano fairly hum while accompanying Ed Wilson in several popular songs. These two represented the Fresh class. The Soph Stunt had a larger representation of the class than any other class stunt given. Shorty Love acted as judge in a court scene. His Honor entered, moistened his throat with a slight gargle of Haig and Haig and took the bench. Several black boys were tried and sentenced in a humorous manner. Williams, McCrae, Woods, and Earnest offered John Brown's Baby. Joe Earnest's one-man band next put in an appearance with Joe playing all of the major and minor roles. He was dressed as a clown and demonstrated the superior music-creating powers of a wonderful patent medicine sold exclusively by him. This medicine, according to Joe, will in time bring talent to even the dumbest. He played in turn a clarinet, piano, banjo, mandolin, guitar, saxophone, and (with a little backstage assist- (Continued on page 8)

College Anthology Will Publish Contributions
Smith and Martin Notified of Acceptance of Poems from Their Pens

C. F. Smith and A. M. Martin have been notified by the Editorial Department of the Stratford Publishing Company, in Boston, that poems submitted by them will be published in this year’s College Anthology. Both poems were submitted by their authors in a nation-wide contest and were awarded honorable mention over a wide list of poems submitted by other college students. The poem submitted by Smith was written as the class poem for the present Junior class in 1923 and was published in the 1923 edition of Quips and Cranks. Martin's poem, The Sanctuary, was written two years ago and submitted to the college magazine for publication but was never published. The College Anthology is published annually by the Stratford Company and contains the choicest of American college poems. It is a distinct honor to Smith and Martin, as well as to Davidson College, for these poems to win a place within its covers. Smith is the poet of the Class of ’26, and besides this, he holds important offices in the various journalistic organizations of the campus. He is a member of Sigma Upsilon, one of the leading national honorary journalistic fraternities. “Piggy” Martin is president of the Glee Club, a frequent contributor to the various publications, and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, a leading honorary fraternity on the campus, and likewise a member of Sigma Upsilon.

Friday Eve Two Davidson Professors
Drs. M. E. Sentelle and J. M. Douglas Receive Degree

At the dedication of the new LeRoy Springs gymnasium and Smyth dormitory, Wednesday, October 15th, and at the meeting of the Synod of South Carolina, the Faculty and Board of Trustees of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina conferred upon Dr. M. E. Sentelle and Prof. J. M. Douglas the degree of Doctor of Literature. Among those receiving the LL.D. degree when the $100,000 gymnasium and $96,000 dormitory were dedicated were Dr. Byrd, president of Chicora College; Dr. D. B. Johnson, president of Winthrop College; and Dr. Melton, president of the University of South Carolina. The conferring of the degree upon Prof. J. M. Douglas came as a surprise both to him and to his brother, Dr. D. M. Douglas, president of the institution; the Board of Trustees having met on the morning of the dedication in the absence of the president. Doctor Sentelle has been dean and has been holding the chair of Philosophy at Davidson College for a number of years. Professor Douglas has been head of the Mathematics department of Davidson for several years. This LL.D. degree is a very high honor and these two members of the faculty of Davidson College have been rightly honored in having this degree conferred upon them.

Wildkittens Down P. C. In a Well-Played Game
Grey and Overton do Good Work in Backfield—Goal Line Uncrossed

The Davidson Wildkittens continued their victorious march and Thursday they went down and defeated the Presbyterian College Freshmen by a 14-6 score. The South Carolinians ruled the field during the first quarter and outplayed the Davidson team and it looked as though P. C. had things going their way. Davidson received and were forced to kick. P. C. then advanced to the Kittens’ 20-yard line and scored three points by a field goal. The remainder of the first period was not featured by any long gains, although the ball was in Davidson territory a large part of the time. In the second quarter P. C. gained again and advanced the ball to the Kittens’ one-foot line and first down. It was then that the Red and Black team woke up and in the four downs P. C. lost six inches and Davidson punted out of danger, but P. C. advanced within striking distance and Stamp kicked another goal, bringing their score up to 6. Davidson then started their attack and after completing two long passes Grey took the ball over for the first touchdown. Grey also added the extra point. Davidson kicked off but the half ended immediately. The third quarter was a punting game and neither team was able to gain any ground to speak of. In the third quarter the young Cats ruffled their fur and started an attack on the P. C. line that burned them down and ground was gained consistently by Grey and Overton. After first downs Overton took the oval across and Grey kicked the extra point. The ball was kept in P. C. territory the remainder of the quarter, but the Kittens were unable to score again. Stamps and Wilson were the leading gainers for P. C. and both Stamps’ kicks were spectacular. Overton and Grey showed up best in the backfield for Davidson, while Ritchie and Arrowood did good work in the (Continued on page 7)

Phi Beta Kappa Extends Bids to Three Members of Class of Twenty-five
P. C. Confers Degrees On Trawick, Purdy and Rowe Receive Signal Honors in Senior Class

TRAWICK’S AVERAGE
Men Establish Themselves in Both Literary and Other College Activities

Bids have been extended to three of the leading scholars in the present Senior class from the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, honorary scholastic fraternity, and these men will be initiated into the association on the evening of December 8th. The men, whose scholastic averages for the first three years of their college career are marks of superior excellence, are: Martin W. Trawick, of Buena Vista, Va.; W. Wallace Purdy, of Pensacola, Fla.and Alvin T. Rowe, of Fredericksburg, Va. Martin Trawick leads the list of Seniors with the remarkable average of 98 per cent in his work for his first three years. The most intricate courses have won for him the name of “Stud,” by which he is popularly known on the campus. In scholastic work, his unusual mastery has served as assistant to the faculty in physics and mathematics, and he has been affiliated with the Metrophilian Literary Society in various official positions. His name has constantly appeared on the honor rolls of the school for the past three years. Wallace Purdy, whose average is second only to that of Trawick, has not confined his interests entirely to scholarship, but has played a prominent part in various campus activities. He is a prominent member of the Eumenean Literary Society, a member of the glee club, and college orchestra, and has acted as assistant to the faculty in many different courses. He has taken an important part in the various religious organizations and has served as president of the C. E. Training class for the past two years. From his Freshman year until the present time, the position of Class Poet has been repeatedly bestowed on him. Alvin Rowe has excelled especially in languages, but his other scholastic work has been far above the average. He is a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and the Spanish Club. (Continued on page 3)

Contestants Are Warming Up for Emory Debaters

The initial inter-collegiate debate, in which the Davidson College debating team is to participate, will take place in Atlanta on the evening of December 8th, when the forensic representatives of Emory University lock horns with the Davidson talent. The debate, from Emory's standpoint, offers a fine chance of revenge for the two-to-one victory of Davidson in last year’s contest between the two schools; and from all reports, the Emory orators are rounding themselves into condition rapidly. The proposition for discussion, Resolved: That the Sterling-Reed Education bill should be enacted into law by the next Congress, offers ample opportunity for lively arguments; and neither of the two colleges will let the opportunity go unheeded. Preliminaries for the debate will be held on October 29th, and the debating team will be picked at that time. A large number of candidates, including a number of veteran speakers, have indicated their desire to enter the try-outs. Among the students who have already begun work on their preliminary speeches are: Hayden Hollingsworth, Benton Wharton, Roland Parker, C. M. S. McIlwine, Archie Ray, Don Wharton, J. B. Gladney, D. H. Stewart, and Harllee Branch, Jr. A number of other prospective entrants will probably start active work during the week.

Charlotte Business Man Makes Talk to Students

Morgan B. Speir, Sr., Talks Practically to Young Men at “Y” Service

“I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service!” was the text chosen by Mr. Morgan B. Speir, Sr., of Charlotte, in his address before the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening. “Paul tells of his life, which was presented as a living sacrifice. He speaks of his sufferings in presenting his life: five times beaten with forty stripes save one; thrice scourged with rods; stoned; in perils often; shipwrecked. Our lives are to be full of hardships, not beds of roses, if they are to be successful! The man who wants success, the man who achieves success, wants a manly life. We are all brothers—then what kind of influence are we exerting on our brother? Is that influence for good or bad?” Here the speaker told of an incident in a fraternal order in Charlotte, illustrating a case of no good influence exerted by so-called brothers. “By the mercies of God—what have entered into your life to make it brighter, more enjoyable, more worth-while? These are mercies of God. In the beginning God made heaven and earth. There is a great mercy of God, for He has given us the capacity to enjoy these. God is love—His love is a mercy to man. We have the incidents in which Abraham and others talked with God. That we have the record of these is a great mercy. This beautiful country in which we live—our state, blessed by God, is another of His mercies. Our heritage of forefathers, who, building houses of worship and living by the Bible, laid the foundation for our nation as a Christian nation. Surely this is a gift of God! God gave us our government where the people have the power of rule; our colleges, where we have great opportunity to improve our minds, as well as our other natures; these are God's gifts of mercy. Then there are our homes, our liberty, (Continued on page 8)

Light Davidson Team Rushes Mountain Bears Off Feet to Win Game, 45-0

Nearly All of the Scrubs Used in Defeating the Lutherans

EACH MAN PLAYS WELL

Day Was Hot But Wildcats Played With a Vim That Out-Classed Opponents

Outweighed 15 pounds to the man, Coach Monk Younger’s fighting Wildcats won the fifth straight game of the season Saturday, sending the big Lenoir Bears back to their mountain haunts scratching at the little end of a 45-0 score. As a sweltering sun poured down upon Richardson Field, the little Davidson team showed a drive and a punch unseen for years, that swept the heavy Mountaineers before them almost at will, carrying the ball over the final chalked line for six touchdowns and scoring one field goal from placement. Davidson scored in the first three minutes of play, when Bohannon snatched Henry Sapp's 27-yard pass from the air, and slipped over for a touchdown. The overwhelming victory of the Red and Black team came as a great surprise to the football followers of the state, Coach Gurley bringing his Lenoir team to Richardson Field with half the state saying that he would mar the defeatless record of Davidson on its home field, and throw a monkey wrench into the victorious march of the 1924 team. The Davidson team, fighting against odds of weight, defended its lair with driving offensive marches that hopelessly outclassed the Lenoir squad from the start. Scarcely had the first quarter passed when Coaches Younger and Tilson jerked the first string men out of the Davidson line-up and began sending in substitutes for all the positions, in relays of two. Most of the game was played with an entirely second team running over the Hickory boys. Davidson's reserve strength looked its best, with Covington and McComb leading the Davidson squad in ground gained. The prettiest play of the game came in the second quarter, when Ted Covington slipped through the center of the big Lenoir line and dashed for 31 yards to the goal line. This was the third touchdown of the second period, Jim Hendrix racing around the Lenoir right end for a touchdown on the first play of the quarter, and Black bucking the ball for three yards and a touchdown, after (Continued on page 6)

Do you want to keep up with the Fighting Wildcats? Do you want to get the dope of the Carolina game? Have you paid your Davidsonian Subscription? If not, mail us your check for $2.50 NOW! All unpaid subscriptions will be discontinued after November 6th. So mail your check at ONCE to The Davidsonian.