THE DAVIDSONIAN; MAY 15, 1924

Class of '21 Turns to Davidson

Suite 1, 411 Marlboro St.
Boston, Mass.
May 5, 1924.

To the Class of ’21:

As most of you know, Jicky Taylor, our alumni class president, and I sent out a circular letter to the
class not long ago. Here are the results of our work as gathered from the replies and various other sources
of information.

Jicky, whose official name is J. P., Jr., is living at 863 W. 5th St, Winston-Salem, N. C. After a
number of months on the road selling flavoring extracts for the Hartley-Taylor Co., he has settled down to a job
in their plant at Greensboro.

As for me, I am a hard-working student at Boston Tech, and expect to receive my degree next March. I’ve
continued my track work and have made the Cross Country and Track teams here. I hope to be present for
our reunion in 1926. As I expect to establish myself in the South upon graduation, it is quite likely that
my hope will be realized. I can always be located through the address, 3506 Berwyn Ave., Baltimore, Md., so you
fellows be sure to keep me posted on your movements.

Sincerely yours,
A. FRANKLIN FRICKER,
Alumni Secretary.

J. S. Brown, Jr., 5325 Danneel St.
New Orleans, La.
Heinie is in his third year at the Tulane University Medical School. He writes that he is working hard but
hopes to have a chance to visit the Hill this spring.

W. W. Carter, Box 266, Mt. Airy, N. C.
Nick spent some time with the Equitable Life Ins. Co., doing missionary work for them in the north. Since August,
1923, he has been engaged in the practice of law and reports that he has found his chosen calling at
last.

J. E. Cassell, Gastonia, N. C.
Eris has been teaching since he finished D. C. After a year at McCallie, and one at Lenoir he has
been engaged in work at Gastonia this year. He is to be principal of Gastonia’s new half-million dollar high school
next year and is very enthusiastic over the prospects for the future.

Wm. P. Cumming, 6-A Graduate College, Princeton, N. J.
Jap has received his M. A. at Princeton and is now working towards his Doctor’s degree in English. Unlike most
of the students, he says that he is loafing during winters and working through the summers. He is lucky.

John M. Dunlap, 12090 Realty Bldg., Charlotte, N.C.
Possum, after a year or so down in Mississippi, established his headquarters in Charlotte. He is a special agent for
the Pilot working out of the branch office there. Soon after he graduated Possum was married to Miss Emily Mason,
of Port Miss. They are the proud parents of John, Junior, born last February.

D. R. Freeman, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
“D. R.” finishes up at the seminary this spring. He has accepted a call to Arlington, Tenn., where he will
start his career as a minister.

H. A. Hill, 244 Spring St., New York, N.Y.
Hadley taught school in the Metropolis for several years and in 1923 received his M.A. from Columbia. He has recently
been in charge of the advertising department of the Bartlet Orr Press. He expects to attend an international advertising convention
in London in connection with his present work this summer.

A.D. King, 308 7th St., Bristol, Tenn.
Albert has been in the wholesale dry-goods business ever since graduation. In September, 1922, he was married to Miss Ida
Brown, of Meridian, Miss. Albert is the daddy of a seven months’ old boy named Albert, Jr.

C. H. Long, 800 Cloverdale Ave., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Bobby traveled over 18 states before discovering that he wanted to settle down in his home town. But he is
now firmly entrenched in the contracting game with his father and says that he expects to spend his life at
it.

J. W. Long, Box 170, Uniontown, Ala.
Sprock says he is still very much alive and working hard at the mercantile business with his father and brothers.
He is following nobly in the footsteps of Enoch and holds down the job of Deacon in his church.

F. E. Manning, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va.
Fred receives his diploma at the University of Richmond this spring and hopes to duplicate at the Seminary next year.
He is the business manager of the Review at the Seminary and reports that the work is fine. He spends
his summers preaching.

C. J. Matthews, 414 West Building, Jacksonville, Fla.
“C.J.” is continuing his Ponzi wizardry with the Addressograph Co., as their Florida representative. He speaks casually of winning $700
prizes in sales contests. Carl was married to Miss Lavinia Boyer last year and they now live at Orlando. Among
the other things that Carl has raked up are State Secretary of the C. E. Society, member of the Chamber
of Commerce, and prospective member of the Rotary Club.

J. C. McCaskill, 416 W. 116th St., New York, N.Y.
Joe was Y. M. C. A. secretary at Concord his first year out and then last year he migrated to
New York. He is now director of boys’ work at the Harlem branch of the “Y.” In addition, he is
a graduate student at Columbia in the Teachers College.College. He expects to enter the foreign field in a year or
so. Joe was married the first of this year to Miss Sarah Barnhardt, of Concord, and they are both studying
in New York now. 22nd St., New York is J. R. McKeldin, 30 Villa Molitor, Paris, 16e, France. Jim writes
that he is now studying French preparatory to entering the diplomatic service next year. W. H. Miley, Cooleemee, N. C.
Bill taught school for a year but is now trying to learn the cotton mill business. He says that he
hopes to be a superintendent by the time he is 50 anyway. Paul C. Meng, 347 Madison Ave., New York.
Paul is studying at the Drew Seminary, Madison, N. J. Next year he expects to return to China to enter
social service work. F. E. Miller, Cross Hill, S. C. Groundhog writes on his letterhead which tells us that he
deals in gasoline and oil. He embarked upon this career in the business world soon after leaving D. C., and
says that business is good. Groundhog was united in holy wedlock last year, Miss Louda Copeland, of Clinton, S. C.,
pulling the lucky number. A. M. Mitchell, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va. Alec is at the Seminary and hopes to finish
next year. He says that a visit to the Seminary is next best to a trip to the Hill because
there is a bunch of our fellows there. A. P. Ormond, 3805 Spruce St., Philadelphia, Pa. Pierce entered Emory University
Medical School in 1921 and after two years there he has been going to the University of Pennsylvania Medical School
this year. Upon the completion of his course there he expects to take several years' work in a hospital and
then specialize. S. M. Query, Union Seminary, Richmond, Virginia. Stafford completed his work at the Seminary this month and then
will undertake the pastorship of a group of churches around Montvale, Va. D. W. Roberts, Union Seminary, Richmond, Va. Dave
also collects a degree from the Seminary this month and will continue his stay in Richmond as assistant pastor at
the Second Presbyterian Church. Dave tried beating rugs and teaching before preaching but thinks he has his job now. R.
E. Rogers, Chamberlain-Hunt Academy, Port Gibson, Miss. Colonel is Commandant at this military school and answers to the nickname of
“The Kaiser” among his proteges. He spends his summers as an instructor at Camp McClellan, showing citizens how to be
military. D. C. Shaw, Box 743, Bible Institute of L. A., Los Angeles, Cal. Lewis finishes at the Union Seminary
this spring and has taken the post of assistant pastor to Dr. Mauze. L. B. Schenck, Huntington, W. Va. Hard
Rock sounds the call from out yonder where the West begins and men are men, with the following note. He
is a student at the Bible Institute and fills in his spare moments with preaching and lecturing. F. N. Thompson,
Mooresville, N. C. Fred was married soon after graduation and is the father of one child. He is building highways
and has his headquarters at Mooresville. W. W. McCorkle, Birmingham, Ala. Bolo has been in the newspaper game at Birmingham.
C. R. Vance, 340 Volunteer Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. Charlie tried the insurance business but soon switched to his present occupation,
the bond business. Last May he became the manager of the Chattanooga office of his firm, a large investment banking
house, and he says that he likes his work fine. (Continued on page 8) Houston White, Exeter College, Oxford, England.
Houston taught a year in Atlanta, then annexed an M.A. in History and Politics at Princeton. This year he has
been enjoying life at Oxford University and traveling over the continent. After one more year at Princeton, Houston expects to
cap off his schooling with three years at Harvard Law School. Incidentally, he has been traveling with Mac Richards the
past month or so. In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going
to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the
Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a
profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. W. C. Worth, 105 Eddy St., Ithaca, N. Y. Bill spent a few
months at the University of Florida taking special work in tropical agriculture, and is now finishing up two years at
Cornell. He has been preparing himself to undertake agricultural mission work in Belgian Congo, Central Africa, and expects to go
out this summer. Would you like to try it this summer? Write to me for particulars. G. E. Miley, Winston-Salem,
N. C. Red is in the insurance business in Winston. J. A. Poteat, Chapel Hill, N.C. John has been studying
law at Carolina. I. W. Romefeldt, Asheville, N.C. Romeo was married to Miss Mary Parks Grey in December, 1922. He
has been with the Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. since graduation. A. W. McAlister, Pres. H. B. Gunter, Ag’cy Mgr.
J. W. Sample, Chapel Hill, N.C. Harry has been studying law at Carolina. VICTROLAS New Records Weekly VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES LUDWIG DRUMS PLAYER PIANO ROLLS SHEET MUSIC Will Handle Deferred Payment
Accounts ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc. CHARLOTTE Mr. Merchant- Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS? We issue
a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check
being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this
protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at INSURANCE DEPARTMENT Independence Trust Co. Phone 3490
