HOME-COMING NUMBER

THE DAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., NOVEMBER 13, 1924 No. 9

WILDCAT-TAR HEEL CLASH MARKS HOME COMING

S. Wilkes Dendy Heads Program With Speech At “Y” Vesper Service
Former Field Secretary of Christian Endeavor Speaks Influentially

IS SEMINARY STUDENT
Speaker is Popularly Known to Many of Davidson Students—Milton Leads

Last Sunday the “Y” had Mr. S. Wilkes Dendy, a graduate of the Presbyterian College with the class of 1920, give a decidedly helpful and practical talk at the vesper service. Ernest Milton, introducing the speaker, stated that Mr. Dendy is known to many of the men here through his work in four of the Southern States as field secretary of the Christian Endeavor. At present he is a student at Columbia Theological Seminary and assistant pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Gastonia, N.C.

Using as his scripture text a part of Matthew 12:12, “How much then is a man better than a sheep,” Mr. Dendy announced that he would speak on the value and dignity of a human soul. In the first place he referred to Christ's placing of man above all institutions, including the Sabbath, when He answered the Pharisees: “The Sabbath was made for man, and not man for the Sabbath.” “We are,” said Mr. Dendy, “grateful to authors who express our own thoughts for us. How much more grateful we should be to Christ for teaching us a new truth.

“Nineveh had long been barbarously mistreating captives and now Rome was practicing extreme cruelty even with their own children. One man was accustomed to feed his fish on the mangled flesh of his servants. The Roman world applauded Scaevola for holding his hand over a basin of coals until the flames consumed it.

“Christ during this same period of history was healing the withered hand of the man in the temple and doing other deeds of kindness and mercy. This was in direct contrast to the low valuation on human life in Rome.”

(Continued on page 10)

Young Wildcats Smother Oak Ridge Eleven 36 to 3
The Wildkittens Experience Little Difficulty in Running up Score Against Oak Ridge Cadets Tuesday

When the last whistle on a football gridiron has sounded this season and some of the Seniors have laid aside their football uniforms for the last time, the Varsity is going to lose some good men. But if the showing of the Davidson Wildkittens against Oak Ridge last Tuesday can be taken as an indication, Coach Monk Younger will send on to Coach Rawson plenty of good material. It was apparently with the greatest ease that the Wildkittens defeated the Oak Ridge boys, 36 to 3, and at all times during the contest the Davidson backs, aided by a good line and almost perfect interference, gained seldom less than eight yards at a time and more often 15 or more.

The Wildkittens began with a rush and except for the third quarter, when the second string backfield was in, they gained consistently and with ease. Even in that quarter two first downs were made and they held the Oak Ridge boys to one in that period. The Wildcats-to-be made a total of 17 first downs and only allowed Oak Ridge to make one.

(Continued on page 9)

Wildcats Smear Tigers In Heated Contest on Wearn Field Saturday
Hendrix Scores Touchdown After Twenty-Yard Pass From Sappenfield
HUNT KICKS GOAL
Vance and Baker Show Remarkable Fight in Both Offensive and Defensive Play

The Wildcat jinx that has lingered for years over Wearn Field lifted Saturday when Coach Monk Younger’s well-oiled Davidson machine drove full steam through the pack of Clemson Tigers which had gathered together at Charlotte, Davidson winning 7-0. For the first time since the bright days of 1917 a snarling pack of Wildcats drove their historic Tiger foes back into the jungle and brought home to their alma mater another belt of victory. And also for the first time since those memorable days of Fetzer, a Davidson machine has won six games in one season. The Wildcat was superior to the Tiger, and the one touchdown margin did not begin to tell of the vicious defense that the lighter Davidson machine has built.

Out of gloomy prospects Coach Younger has built a Davidson Machine that is attracting much attention.

Armistice Day is Locally Observed
On Tuesday, November 11th, Armistice Day was celebrated with a Battalion drill in the morning, followed by appropriate exercises in Shearer Hall, at which Mr. James Lockhart, of Charlotte, was the principal speaker. Through all the celebration ran a note of sadness because during the past year the death of Davidson's most distinguished alumnus, Woodrow Wilson, had occurred. Mr. Lockhart, who himself was an ex-service man of the World War who served with distinction during the war, and since the war has been prominent in the political affairs of the state, and State Commander of the American Legion for one year, often referred in his address to his Commander-in-Chief, Woodrow Wilson. The other speakers likewise made frequent reference to Wilson's greatness, and the just pride that Davidson has that he was a student here. Mr. Lockhart was introduced by Captain Weems, head of the R.O.T.C. Department at Davidson. In his address Mr. Lockhart described vividly the life of a “doughboy” in France. He did not hesitate to picture the horrors of trench life at the front.

(Continued on page 3)

Colonel Thomas J. Dickson Here in Speech On War
Prominent Chaplain Presents Striking Facts of Late World War

America and the Battle of Verdun was the subject of a very stirring address delivered to the Davidson student body, faculty and townpeople by Lieut.-Col. Thomas J. Dickson last Thursday. Colonel Dickson gave to his audience a world of unwritten history and facts about the World War that have never yet been put in print, and possibly will not be for some years to come. The personality of the retired chaplain, who covered himself with glory while serving with the First Division in France, kept the entire audience thrilled during the whole of the lecture. His graphic descriptions and dramatic climaxes of incidents were so vivid that time after time the assembly broke into applause.

(Continued on page 7)The tale of mighty off-tackle runs mixed with races around the Clemson flanks and drives through the Tiger center, which netted the Younger team 10 first downs to the South Carolinians’ three. Nor did it begin with the Davidson line putting up a fight, as led by the hard-tackling Vance and Baker, it threw the Tiger backs for losses of 71 yards against a total gain from scrimmage of 79 markers. Repeatedly, Harry Vance went driving through the Clemson forwards to send the backs sprawling on the field with a clean tackle or smear the play as he busted up the opposing interference. Playing side-by-side with Baker, he made their side of the Davidson line well-nigh impregnable, and beneath every pile of players were seen the arms of one or the other or both of these two premier linesmen, locked around the man with the ball.

On the offense, Vance was a great factor as he clipped his man or opened up a hole for the slashing line plays. The crowd rose to a man in the final moments of play when the Davidson head (Continued on page)

CAPTAIN NAPE T. DAVIS
The first Davidson captain ever to lead his team against Carolina at home—scored a touchdown year before last on Tar Heels.

LINE COACH TEX TILSON
The Davidson line, although outweighed by over ten pounds in every game, is a strong part of the team.

Original One-Act Plays Are Staged
Three original one-act plays, written by Davidson students, are to be presented by the Dramatic Club, Saturday evening at 8:00 o'clock. The scene of these plays is laid in the South and the story of each portrays various phases of Southern life, from that of college boys to that of a mountain moonshiner’s daughter. All parts except one are to be played by students.

The scene of the first play, "Understudying Launcelot," written by S. W. Brown, is in a Pullman car on the Southern Railroad between Hickory and Statesville. The plot centers around two Davidson College seniors, Al Pittman (F. S. Wilkinson) and Bill Morley (S. W. Brown). The other characters are Elizabeth Fitzgerald (Katherine Carr), Dr. Fitzgerald (J. M. Carr), and a Pullman porter, J. F. Hollingsworth. The overturning of the car is the exciting climax of the play.

The second play, "Ellen," written by D. M. Currie of last year’s Freshman class, and E. J. Erwin. The heroine of the play is Ellen Bowman (Johnsie Shelton), who is a moonshiner's daughter. Her lover, Charlie (Continued on page 10)

The Greensboro College Glee Club Will Perform In Shearer Hall November 20—Bevy of Beauties to Give Musical Program
More than a score of charming young ladies from the Greensboro College for Women will be in Davidson on the night of Thursday, November 20th, and will entertain the students with a varied and entertaining program of vocal and instrumental numbers. The young ladies, members of the Glee Club at the Greensboro College, will appear in Shearer Hall under the auspices of the annual, Quips and Cranks, and all proceeds from their performance will be used by that publication this year. Several trips through North Carolina have been arranged for the Greensboro College singers, and reports from their practices indicate that they will score a hit wherever they perform. (Continued on page 7)

Both Teams Primed For a Championship Battle on Richardson Gridiron
Annual Grid Classic Between Rivals Will Draw Big Crowds
OLD GRADS TO RETURN
Davidson’s Chances for State Championship Hang Largely on this Game

Home-Coming Day, November 15th. In those few words is more meaning than appears on the surface. It means the bringing back to Davidson campus of many alumni. It means further that perhaps the greatest game in the history of Davidson will be played, for the heavy team of the University of North Carolina and the little Davidson Wildcat team are going to clash, and when the game is over, the best team will have won.

When weight and experience are considered, it would seem that Carolina should win over the Wildcats by a good score. Their showing against V. M. I. last Saturday, when they held this strong Virginia team scoreless and outplayed them, winning 3 to 0, gives them a great advantage over the Wildcats when a comparison of teams played is considered. Davidson outplayed the heavy Clemson team and won 7 to 0, but V. M. I. has the stronger eleven. Then, too, Carolina defeated State early in the season, 10 to 0, while the Wildcats were only able to tie the Techmen, 10 to 10. Comparative scores are interesting, but to predict the outcome of a game beforehand merely by this method is unwise. Many upsets have been made in the scores of football games, simply because by comparison this team and that team were expected to win. The Wildcats have the advantage of playing on their own field and they will have an advantage in the sentiment of the crowd. This fighting Wildcat eleven will merit the admiration of many of the spectators, besides the cheers of the students and alumni that will be continuous throughout the game. The two systems used by the mentors of Carolina and Davidson and the clashing of these (Continued on page 8)

Richardson, ’14, First to Score on Tar Heels
Donor of Davidson Field Scored First Wildcat Victory Over Carolina

When Lunsford Richardson, Jr. in the fall of 1910 picked up a University of North Carolina fumble and raced 60 yards across the Blue and White goal line, he not only won the first Davidson victory over the Tar Heels but also scored the first point that a Wildcat eleven had ever made against that team. After over 10 years of defeats and one tie, the Davidson team met Carolina down on Wearn Field in Charlotte. It was in that game that Richardson won his place in the Davidson hall of fame. Unfortunate for the Wildcat eleven, that was the only year that Richardson was at Davidson. Richardson was a member of the class of 1914, and now, the year of the tenth anniversary of that class, Davidson has received the Richardson Athletic Field. This field is the first one at Davidson to receive a Carolina football crowd. The Richardson Athletic Field is one of the very best planned in the South, and when the concrete stands are erected this coming summer, it will rank well as a field for all outdoor sports at Davidson.