THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

BOOST BASKETBALL FIVE GRAPPLERS LAND HAND

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for fifty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere
as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an
amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

DAVIDSON WRESTLERS TO OPEN NEW SEASON FRIDAY
Concord “Y” Squad Coming Over to Furnish Real Opposition to Capt. Weem’s Men

The wrestling match with Concord Y. M. C. A. Friday night, December 12th, holds the center of the athletic stage
at Davidson this week. From all indications, this should be a fast, scrappy event, as Concord promises to bring a
fast, experienced team to grapple with Captain Weems’ huskies. For some weeks past the squad has been practicing daily, going
through the usual holds and blocks and getting used to being on the mat. Elimination trials are now going on
and the winners of each class will be picked to meet Concord. These will probably come from the following men:

Light Weight—119 class, J. Frierson or McCloud; 129 class, Piggy Martin, R. S. Wilson, and Barrington; 139 class, Hansel, P.
M. Patterson, Bill Cox, Jeff Garrison, and Davis.

Middle Weights—149 class, Phil Cox and Estridge; 158 class, N. Patterson, Sutton; 175 class, Lucian Wells. Vance will be out
on account of his recent football injury. This leaves a gap that will be hard to fill because there are
practically no experienced men in this class.

Heavy Weight—Laws Brothers.

Tomorrow's match will be the only one on the Hill until after Christmas. Another match with the same team is
scheduled for January 10th, and following that all energy will be used for getting into shape for the eastern trip
when Navy will be encountered. Manager Patterson is trying to arrange a match with State on the way back from
the Navy trip. A captain will be elected sometime during the week to take the place of Selser, who failed
to return this year.

The Charlotte News published Saturday an All-State Freshman team, picked by Ikey Tailor, first-year coach at Trinity. Two men were
from each of the five “big five” teams of the state save the Methodist school, which rated a trio. We're
not worrying over center nor the backfield.

STATISTICS FOR 1924 DAVIDSON FOOTBALL SEASON

Davidson. Opponents.
First downs 92 70
Passes attempted 63 60
Passes completed 26 18
Passes intercepted 8 10
Ground gained pass 420 246
Per attempted pass 6.7 4.1
Per completed pass 16.2 13.5
Ground gained ends 903 482
Ground gained tackles 558 497
Ground gained center 628 243
Total ground gained, scrimmage 2,509 1,468
Ground loss scrimmage 122 232
Net gain scrimmage 2,387 1,236
Total distance punts 3,548 3,116
Number punts 96 93
Average distance punt 37 33
Total distance kick-off 979 880
Return punts 434 273
Average return punts 4.8 2.8
Return kick-offs 279 193
Penalties 290 230
Grand total ground gained 3,222 1,701
Touchdowns 17 3
Field goals 2 6
Try for points 14 2
Safeties 2 0
Total scoring 126 38

Spalding, A. G. Spalding & Bros.
Reach, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith Goods
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade Street

Last Whistle
By Don Wharton

Statistics that are printed below show that the Davidson team outplayed the opponents in every department of the game—punting, passing,
end runs, tackle plays, center thrusts, and even on intercepting passes. In the latter phase of the game, probably Popsy
Hunt led the entire team. Several times he grabbed the pigskin from the air with one hand and sailed out.
One of the most outstanding features of the season was the 14 consecutive try-for-points that ended with the final one
at Trinity. After failing in the first three attempts, the team started in Asheville on the second touchdown and thereafter
never failed to kick the goal.

"Sook" Boggs 1925 Football Captain

Black, Hunt, and Laird did all the kicking from then on. Several times this one point meant either victory or
defeat to the Davidson team. Especially dramatic was the final point at Pinehurst when with the score 10-9 in favor
of State, Laird sent the ball sailing through the uprights for the tying point. At Trinity, with the score 13-13
in the fourth quarter, Laird’s field goal brought victory. The final touchdown would probably never have come had not Flake
kicked this field goal, for the Methodists would have most likely played for a tie from then on. However, equally
essential.to this machine-like work was the passing of McConnel at center. Without a doubt, he is the best passing pivot
man in the state. Nor should Sappenfield’s placing the ball be overlooked. It is about as hard a job as
the kicking.

In rating Stephens, of Trinity, tackle over Richie, Taylor no doubt received a great amount of criticism from those that
saw the Trinity-Davidson game and who have followed Richie through the 1924 season.

Wildcat Five To Try Out Power In The Concord Fray

The Wildcat Five will ring up the curtain on the basketball season when Captain Sook Boggs leads his warriors against
the Concord “Y” quintet at the Alumni gymnasium here next Monday night. This will be the only game played until
the opening of the collegiate season after exams and the only chance to get a line on the Red and
Black goal-tossers before that time.

Coach Monk has begun work on the machine with five letter men and a large number of class stars to
build upon. Besides Boggs, letter men Tom Staley, Red Laird, Mac Beall, and Speck McConnell are back on the court
and are showing the best of pre-season form. The entire team that won honors in the Freshman state race last
year is also out and is looming strong as reserve material if not better. Class basketball has brought a number
of good men forward and the majority of these are of varsity calibre.

In the Concord game, Red Laird, Staley, and Boggs are as sure of starting as anyone; while Litch Huie looks
good to fill Nappy Davis’ place at center. Tom Anderson, Hewlett, McConnell, and Cook have a chance at the fifth
place, with Hewlett possibly having the edge.

The Concord “Y” boys are well into their season, having played some four games, and are ready to take on
the Davidson aggregation Monday. They will no doubt run Dick and Morrison at forwards; Bell at center; and Moore and
Hance at guards. Ed Morrison is a former Wildcat and was a member of last year’s squad.

The basketball schedule as arranged thus far has been announced by Manager R. W. Oeland to include the following games:
- Concord at Davidson, December 15th.
- Charlotte “Y” at Davidson, January 7th.
- Trinity at Charlotte, January 9th.
- Trinity at Davidson, January 10th.
- Concord “Y” at Concord, January 13th.
- Carolina at Chapel Hill, January 17th.
- Elon at Davidson, January 20th.
- Durham Elks at Davidson, February 6th.
- Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte, February 10th.
- Georgia Tech at Charlotte, February 17th.

Virginia Trip:
- Guilford at Guilford, February 18th.
- V. P. I. at Blacksburg, February 19th.
- Washington and Lee at Fredericksburg, February 21st.
- Hampden-Sidney at Hampden-Sidney, February 23rd.
- Roanoke College at Roanoke, February 24th.
- Wake Forest at Charlotte, February 26th.
- Guilford at Davidson, February 27th.
- Wake Forest at Davidson, February 28th.

There is a game pending for February 2nd with Trinity at Trinity. If this is not obtained, Georgetown University will
come to Davidson from Georgetown, Ky., for a game on the 3rd.

DAVIDSON PLACES FIFTH AS CAROLINA WINS RACE
Fresh O’Neal Leads Wildcat Racers as Bailey Wins First Place

The University of North Carolina won the state cross-country race held at Wake Forest, December 6th, and Davidson placed fifth,
State, Trinity, and Wake Forest placing second, third, and fourth respectively. Bailey, of Wake Forest, finished first in 15:45, running
the three-mile course in good time. Williford, of Davidson, was leading the field up to the halfway mark, when he
fell and was taken with a severe cramp in the stomach. Stigler was also among the first few, but he
also became sick due to the food that they had for dinner.

O'Neal was the first to finish for Davidson, crossing the finish line in nineteenth place, his time being 16:15 for
the three and one-tenth miles. Webb, the next Davidson man to finish, came in twenty-second place, Williford and Stigler finishing
twenty-fourth and twenty-fifth respectively. The members of the Wildcat team did not show up nearly so well as was expected,
but none of the members dropped out. Considering the fact that 40 men started and that the Davidson men finished
about the middle of the crowd, the Wildcat supporters should feel proud of the way that Williford and the others
stuck in to the last of the race though under trying conditions.

Dick Grey at left halfback, and Hugh Arrowood at right end, were the Davidson men to make a place on
the mythical team.

INFLUENZA
As a preventive, melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply up nostrils before mingling with crowds. If feverish, call
a doctor at once.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description + “Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
