THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1924

Here and There

Mr. H. A. Query, the popular editor of “The Gastonia Gazette,” and “Doc” LaFarr, captain of the 1921 Wildcat football team, were on the Hill to see one of the recent basketball games.

Rev. J. C. Rowan and Mr. Archie Cannon motored over from Concord last week.

Mr. Joe P. Moore is now superintendent of the public schools at Mebane, N. C. He is reported to be making a big success of his work.

Rev. Q. N. Honeycutt, pastor of the Walkersville Church, Waxhaw, N. C., has recently been awarded the degree of Th.D.

Mr. T. Henry Wilson, of Gastonia, was a campus visitor Friday.

Rev. W. C. McLauchlin, a missionary to China, who is now on a furlough, was in Davidson Saturday. Rev. W. C. McLaughlin and Rev. J. Plummer Smith, a missionary to Africa, who was here a few weeks ago, both of the class of '07, are very anxious to have a reunion of their class this spring at commencement, as this year may be the last time they may have a furlough together.

Rev. J. W. Goodman, pastor of the Antioch Church, Red Springs, N. C., who had been in Charlotte attending the Billy Sunday meeting, died early Wednesday morning at the home of his sister-in-law, Mrs. W. E. Johns, 1009 South Tryon Street. Mr. Goodman was a well-known Presbyterian minister in North Carolina. He received his education at Davidson College. He was buried at Thyatira Church, in Rowan County.

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte, Winston-Salem, Asheville, and Greenville, S. C.

STATE Y. M. C. A. COUNCIL
(Continued from page 1)

There was a council like this some years ago, but it was allowed to die. In the “Y” work, which came at the same meeting, Davidson compared favorably with the other colleges of the state. The report showed that we have practically every activity here that is afforded by any college Y. M. C. A. in the state. At the last regular meeting of the session on Friday morning, the association voted in favor of a full-time student state secretary, to give his time exclusively to college “Y” work in the state. The matter will rest with the state committee as to whether or not he will be employed.

Davidson was represented on both days of the conference. Some of those present were: Doctor Arbuckle, Doctor Fleagle, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Williams, Ted Jones, J. L. McLean, Harry Price, C. E. Hodgin, E. M. Regen, E. K. Regen, A. M. Martin, A. M. Hillhouse, and M. B. Speir.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS SEND OUT DEPUTATIONS

Under the direction of Ed. O'Connor, who heads the Christian Endeavor deputation committee, a deputation will be sent to Fayetteville from Friday until Monday. A. H. Hillingsworth and W. E. Milton will compose the deputation, which is in response to an invitation from the Christian Endeavor Society in that city.

The program at the last Christian Endeavor Training class meeting took the form of a formal debate between A. Y. Bowie and J. A. McInnis, on the question, “Resolved, that the Prayer Meeting Committee is more important than the Lookout Committee.” No decision was rendered, but following the debate an open forum was conducted, with practically every one of the 15 members present expressing themselves on the issue.

Members of the Christian Endeavor Training class are looking forward to the return of their president, Wallace Purdy, who has been confined in the infirmary for several weeks, but who will meet with the society on Sunday.

TAILORED AT FASHION PARK

This progressive age constantly discovers a better way of doing things—always improves—develops processes that excel. There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things. Turole is pliant—has easy, comfortable lines—conforms to the wearer’s action or inaction—is thoroughly distinguished.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Plans have been completed for the evangelistic meetings to be held Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday nights, conducted by Dr. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro. Dr. Myers will be accompanied by Mrs. Myers and a mixed quartet, composed of two female and two male voices. The students can be assured of some excellent sermons and good music.

The football schedule for next fall is nearly complete and as announced contains six games to be played off the Hill and one on. So far P. C. is the only game scheduled to be played at Davidson, while Washington and Lee, University of South Carolina, V. M. I., Georgia Tech, A. & E. (now known as N. C. State), University of North Carolina, are to be played in their lairs. Games with Wofford, Furman, and Wake Forest are pending.

In the Fresh-Soph Declamation contest in the literary societies, A. L. Curry, of the Philanthropic, and H. White, of the Eumenean, won the medals.

“Dutch” Hengeveld, star player for the last three years on Coach Fetzer's baseball team, has been signed by the Little Rock (Ark.) club of the Southern Association, for the summer. From his excellent record at Davidson, we predict that he will make a big success.This summer with the “pill and stick.” It is reported that this is only one of several big offers made to him by big clubs in the last two years. The S.A.T.C. has been replaced by the R.O.T.C., and Dr. Martin has been notified by government authorities that Lieutenant-Colonel Mueller, of Camp Beauregard, has been transferred here. While the R.O.T.C. will not be as bad as the S.A.T.C., rifles will have to be cleared just as before, but they will be United States rifles, and perhaps we will not get “stuck” as often as before.

FRESH-SOPH PRELIMINARIES SCHEDULED FOR MARCH

The subject for the Fresh-Soph debate this spring is: Resolved, that the United States should adopt the Bok Peace Plan. The preliminaries for selecting the society teams will be held the first week of March. The preliminary debate in the Pandeinic and the Metrophilian Societies will be held March 8th. The preliminary debate in the Eumenean and Philanthropic Societies will be held March 6th. These are only for the purpose of selecting society teams. The inter-society semi-finals will come off the following week; between the Pandeinic and the Metrophilian, on March 11th; between the Eumenean and the Philanthropic, on March 13th. The finals between the two winning societies will be held on March 21st. It is hoped that a great deal of enthusiasm will be shown by the societies.

SOPHS TO HOLD ANNUAL BANQUET IN NEAR FUTURE

At a meeting of the Soph class last Saturday night after the show, the question of a Soph banquet was discussed. The idea received the hearty support of all the class and from all indications, the Sophs are going to pull a big ‘un some time in the near future. A committee, consisting of Hudson, Shaw, Minter, Bouvier, and Regen, is now working on plans to bring this idea into a reality. All that the committee can report now is that the banquet will be held in Charlotte, at one of the hotels or at the Chamber of Commerce. The exact date has not yet been decided on but will probably be within the next two or three weeks.

TWELVE MEN DECIDE TO MAKE JUNIOR SPEECHES

When the call was made for men who were interested in making Junior Speeches, about 12 responded. Of this, four will be selected, regardless of which literary society they are members of. The preliminaries will be held about the 1st of April. The finals will be held Thursday night, April 17th, the winner receiving the society medal. This year Junior Speaking will be in no way connected with commencement, the faculty not requiring each Junior to make a speech as it did in former times. The faculty has agreed to let Junior Speaking be optional with the students. Some believe that it should be done away with, while others see the benefit and good derived from it.

The only kind of rabbit's foot that's any good is the left hind foot of a cross-eyed rabbit caught by a red-headed nigger on a Catholic’s grave in a graveyard in the light of a full moon at midnight of Friday the thirteenth. But “The luck of the Irish” was not caused by rabbit's feet or by snake's hips, since old Saint Patrick ran the snakes out of Ireland.—Lune A. Tick.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man, there arises a question—"What am I going to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly — VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchanging, in good faith, merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490

Our tailors at Fashion Park, for instance, have developed the Turole tailoring treatment—a method of making “soft” clothing possessing all the fine lines that well-groomed men demand. The Turole tailoring treatment is available in a series of interesting style developments—we’re making a special exhibit of them now.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT —
Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants. Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.