THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

CONSISTENT PLAYING

7-0 victory over the Clemson Tigers.

(Continued from page 1)

victory for Davidson. In this game, he and Vance alone featured for the Wildcats, both tearing the visiting line into shreds with their vicious charges. Hendrix almost alone rushed the ball down the field and crossed the goal line on a perfect pass from Sappenfield. Four times Davidson strengthened within the shadows of its own goal to hurl back the powerful attack of the University team, only to go down to a 6-0 defeat as Hackney kicked two field goals in the final two minutes of play. Playing before 7,000 fans, the largest crowd that ever saw the Red and Black team, Davidson won the fifth straight game of the season on October 18th when the Lenoir team—heavier by 15 pounds to the man—were given a 45-0 rout on Richardson Field. Coming to Davidson with half the state predicting Davidson's home record to be marred, the Lenoir squad found themselves outplayed from the first few minutes of the game. Coach Younger used a multitude of substitutes, all showing up on par with the varsity.

The first defeat of the season came when, in the first moments of play, Tilghman, of Furman University, picked up a blocked punt and raced across the Davidson goal line, scoring the first touchdown against the Red and Black team. The Wildcat team outplayed the Purple Hurricane for the remainder of the contest but were never able to score, losing 6-0. With State leading 10-3 and less than four minutes to play, the Davidson team uncorked a perfect aerial attack that swept down Pinehurst field yards and tied the score in one of the most thrilling comebacks of North Carolina collegiate sports history. Outweighed 22 pounds to the man on the line, the Wildcat eleven fought gamely for three and a half quarters to hold the Wolfpack, Sappenfield shifting his attack in the final moments to the air as Hendrix and Black did the receiving. Again Baker played great ball, his work going down under punts alone saving Davidson from defeat. Laird's field goal and try-for-point were the clinching plays of the game. With Vance and Baker playing their greatest defensive games and Hendrix leading the attack, the Red and Black machine marched down Wearn Field the following week for a winning touchdown. The touchdown came in the second quarter as Hendrix almost alone rushed the ball down the field and crossed the goal line on a perfect pass from Sappenfield.

The 1924 season came to a close as Hendrix broke loose time after time in the most thrilling game of the season to defeat Trinity 21-13 on Hanes Field, in Durham. Vance's work at guard was one of the beauties of the game as he came crashing through to smear the Methodist backs behind the line of scrimmage. Davidson scored 126 points to opponents’ 38, the Red and Black goal line being crossed only three times during the season, while five field goals were sent over the Wildcats’ heads. N. C. State and Trinity were the only teams able to score touchdowns from scrimmage, each getting one. Davidson scored 17 touchdowns, two field goals, 14 try-for-points, while making four points on opponents’ safeties.

Averaging only 156 pounds for the eleven men and with a line of only 160 pounds, the Davidson team fought throughout the season against odds of between 15 and 20 pounds to the man on the line. With a low, vicious charge, hard and fast, the little Wildcat forwards repeatedly took their opponents off their feet. Vance and Baker, both prominently mentioned for all-state honors, led the Red and Black line, while Captain Davis and Boggs played steady games throughout the season. At times, others of the linemen broke into the limelight.

In the backfield, Hendrix, playing his last year for Davidson, showed greatest form, his superb side-stepping and dodging placing him in the forefront of North Carolina as an offensive back. Sappenfield was unanimously selected as quarter on the second all-state team, as he directed the attack with a cool head. Black was the most reliable man on the team, playing a perfect defensive game and at all times showing wonderful drive.

This is a continuation of the list of books compiled by Miss Shaw for special reading on college life.

College Publications, Work On
808.01 Bleyer, Willard G., 1913 B64 Newspaper Writing and Editing.
808.01 Given, John L., G53 Making a Newspaper. 1914
808.01 Ralph, Julian, R16 Making of a Journalist. 1903
808.01 Ross, Charles G., R82 Writing of News. 1911
808.01 Shuman, Edwin D., S56 Practical Journalism.
808.01 Stevenson, Robert Louis, St. 94 Learning to Write.

Debating and Public Speaking
808.5 Baker, George P., B165 Forms of Public Address.
808.5 Beveridge, Albert J., B571 Art of Public Speaking.
808.5 Brink, Charles Mills, G75 Making an Oration.
808.01 Denney, Joseph V., D41 Argumentation and Debate.
808.5 Hollister, R. D. T., H744 Speechmaking.
808.5 Mosher, Joseph A., M91 Essentials of Effective Gesture.
808.5 Mosher, Joseph A., Me Essentials of Extempore Speaking.
808.5 Phillips, Arthur Edward, P558 Effective Speaking.
808.5 Winans, James, A., W75 Public Speaking 1922
808.5 Winter, Irvah Lester, W278 Public Speaking. 1923

Q. C. Rice offers as his latest song hit: “Typewriting Mamma, Don’t Try to Tabulate Me.”

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

COACH CLARENCE RAWSON

Rawson Great Athlete at Georgia University
Davidson Fresh Coach Once All-Southern Basketball Man—Won Stars in Three Sports

Davidson supporters would probably step into a hornets’ nest if they claimed an undisputed title to state Freshman grid honors, but few would dare contradict them if they boasted the All-State Freshman mentor. For Coach Clarence Rawson has made a record in his two years’ stay at Davidson that indisputably proclaims him of championship caliber. He has proved himself a master artist not only in the football realm but on the diamond and basketball court as well.

Rawson joined the Wildcat coaching staff in the fall of 1923, coming from Thomasville (Georgia) High. He had behind him a brilliant record as a college athlete and as a prep school mentor. While a student at the University of Georgia, he had been varsity catcher on the Georgia nine for three years. He won the monogram in basketball four years straight, in which sport his stellar playing gained him the position of guard on the All-Southern quint. As a diamond artist, his record is fully as enviable. After being varsity catcher on the Georgia nine for three years, he became first string catcher for the Atlanta Crackers in the Southern League. He soon left the Crackers, however, to become head coach at the famous Georgia Military College—one of the leading prep schools of the South. There he turned out state champion football and basketball aggregations in six months. Before his first year at G. M. C. expired, Rawson answered the call to colors. While in the service, he was a member of the Hancock all-star football machine. Among the other members of this team were two All-American backfield men along with other famous ex-university prodigies. Just before coming to the Wildcat lair, Rawson won distinction as head coach at Thomasville High.

Rawson has won recognition throughout the Carolinas as a premier coach in the three major sports—football, basketball, and baseball. Since becoming Davidson's Freshman mentor, the Freshman football team has lost only one game to a Tar Heel eleven and that by the margin of one lone touchdown. In addition to its Tar Heel victims, the Wildkitten squad has repeatedly crushed some of the strongest of the South Carolina Freshman aggregations. In his one season with the basketteers, Rawson developed a quint which laid claim to state honors and was not disputed. This same aggregation has contributed five men to the Wildcat basketball varsity squad for 1925, two of whom have already gained recognition as the equals of any man on the varsity. Rawson’s proteges were handicapped in their baseball aspirations by a much-curtailed schedule. However, their showing in their three college games was highly creditable. His two-year record as Freshman mentor in the Wildcat lair fully justifies the statement that there is no more versatile and able Freshman coach in the Carolinas than Clarence Rawson.

Try this hot one on your radiator: “You may be somebody’s darling, but you’re a dumb looking scoundrel to me.”

FIGHTING WILDCATS COME BACK

(Continued from page 1)

but he shot a long pass to Covington, who ran to the two-yard line before being downed. Jim Hendrix then carried the ball in for a touchdown.the ball over 7 yards to the 20-yard line for his second touchdown of the day. The score was tied 13-13 when the teams lined up for the try for point. Pandemonium broke loose as Laird sent the Wildcats into the lead with a goal from placement.

The final touchdown followed in quick order. On the second play after the kick-off, Trinity fumbled and Laird recovered on the 22-yard line. The Trinity line crumbled, and in five plays the little Red machine carried the ball across for the third time. Jim Hendrix and Wick Black carried the ball alternately, and on the final plunge Wick crossed the goal line with yards to spare. Laird again kicked goal and the score stood 21-13.

The Blue Devils opened up a feverish forward passing attack, but Hendrix intercepted a pass and the Wildcats started another drive into Trinity territory which was halted when Trinity recovered a fumble. Again the Blue Devils opened up, but Lagerstadt, who during the first periods had been a human battering ram, had shot his bolt, and the Jones machine was doomed. Popsy Hunt intercepted a pass on the five-yard line and ran 20 yards before being downed. Hendrix carried the ball to midfield on three rushes as the game closed.

With seven games won and one fought to a draw out of 10 starts, the Wildcats who left Hanes Field had stamped themselves as the greatest Wildcat eleven since the wonder team of '17 which scored on Tech and beat Auburn, winning six out of 10 games on the hardest schedule a Davidson team has ever undertaken. Eight fighting Wildcats played their last game under the Red and Black: Captain Nappy Davis, Jim Hendrix, Popsy Hunt, Sook Boggs, Sam Summers, Bill McAulay, Red McComb, and Phil Cox.

Wildcats and Blue Devils took the field at 2:30 for the game which would make or break the season for each of them. A loyal band of 100 Davidson students, backed by more than half the crowd of four thousand spectators, sang O! Davidson as Black kicked to the 30-yard line. Lagerstadt made first down, after which Trinity was forced to kick. The wind was against Leggette and Trinity received his punt on Davidson's 43-yard line. After a first down, Lagerstadt’s place-kick failed and it was Davidson's ball on the 10-yard line. Lagerstadt returned Leggette’s punt to Davidson's 45-yard line. After an interchange of punts, Trinity started an advance from the 43-yard line, with Lagerstadt leading the attack, which netted three first downs, and placed the ball on the 10-yard line as the quarter closed.

Johnston and Lagerstadt made six yards on three downs, and Johnson bucked the ball over on the fourth down. Caldwell kicked goal, and the score stood, Trinity 7, Davidson 0. Caldwell kicked over the goal line and the ball was put in play on the 20-yard mark. Jim Hendrix made first down on two plays. Laird punted 50 yards to Lagerstadt, who returned 20 yards to his own 40-yard line. Davidson recovered a fumble in midfield, and Black and Hendrix made first down on the 37-yard line. On the second play, Jim Hendrix broke away for 36 yards and a touchdown. It was a wonderful run. The flashy Wildcat half started around right end behind perfect interference. Cutting in, he dashed down the sidelines for 10 yards, only to be confronted by two Methodist tacklers. As they lunged for him, he stopped dead, and pivoting to the left, raced for a touchdown. Laird’s toe tied the score, 7-7. It was the prettiest broken-field run of the year in Carolina football circles, and one of the best ever made. The stands gave an ovation as he kicked off. Caldwell kicked to Hendrix on the 15-yard line. Laird punted 50 yards, and Pinckney tackled Lagerstadt in his tracks. Trinity drove the ball to Davidson's 27-yard line. Caldwell dropped back to the 35-yard mark and kicked a placement from a difficult angle, the ball going over with yards to spare. It was still rising when it crossed the bar. Score: Trinity 10, Davidson 7.

Wells received the kick-off on the 10-yard line, and on a criss-cross, Hendrix raced to the 45-yard line, being downed by the last Trinity man. The half was up before a play could be run. Score: Trinity 10, Davidson 7.

Black kicked off to the five-yard line to Lagerstadt, who fumbled on the 17-yard line, McConnell recovering for Davidson. Three plays gained seven yards, and Laird missed a place-kick by a narrow margin. On the second play, Lagerstadt raced 45 yards to Davidson’s 35-yard line. Lagerstadt made it first down on the 25-yard mark. Lagerstadt drove to the nine-yard line on two plays. Lagerstadt made four on two bucks and then...