4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE - Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN - Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH - Managing Editor
W. H. MILTON - Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK - Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON - Peanut Parcher Editor
J. A. LAKE - Associate Editor
J. B. PRICE - Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW - Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS - Alumni Editor
L. D. WHARTON - Athletic Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON - Circulation Manager
R. C. SWAIN - Subscription Manager
G. A. SMITH - Bookkeeper
N. A. SERVICE - Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
J. M. APPLEBY
H. M. AUSTIN
W. H. BRANCH
W. T. COVINGTON
J. M. GARRISON
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
P. F. JONES
W. H. LYNCH
R. H. McILWAINE
G. McMILLAN
J. E. MOORE
E. P. O'CONNOR
R. B. PARKER
B. Y. PITTS
R. U. RATCHFORD
E. K. REGEN
J. B. THOMPSON
J. D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

WILDCAT SPIRIT

The Wildcat spirit has come to the front once more, and in last Saturday's game with the Wolfpack has gained
recognition from the sporting world of the Carolinas. Any team which with six minutes to play can overcome a seven-point
lead to tie a twenty pounds heavier team must be endowed with an indomitable fighting spirit. The fighting spirit has
not been lacking in past years, but this season Davidson has developed the needed punch in addition.

The Raleigh News and Observer in commenting on the battle says:
Davidson's performance Friday in stopping N. C. State 10-10 at Pinehurst would be considered much of an upset coming from
any other team than the Wildcats. But that is just the Presbyterians’ style. They want to win football games and
they play with that end in view with the result that they usually do win and are seldom beaten. Larger
colleges in the State would do well to emulate the Wildcat spirit in this respect.

The Wildcat spirit is everywhere regarded as the outstanding factor in the plucky exhibitions which Davidson teams have always made.
Never has a Davidson team considered the game over until the final whistle, and it is this fact which has
kept the fight Davidson teams in the running. To no one belongs more credit for this season’s success than to
Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson. Out of light, inexperienced material, they have molded a Red and Black machine which
is the best which has represented the college in several years. The fight and enthusiasm which is manifest on the
campus is a direct tribute to the good work of the football mentors, and a proof that the Wildcat spirit
is not an intangible thing, but a spirit which finds expression in all of the varied activities of college life.

The Wildcat spirit is in evidence on the campus in other ways than athletics. The football team is the medium
by which the spirit is shown to the outside world. It is a reflection of the spirit evidenced in campus
life—not only a fighting spirit, but a spirit of harmony and co-operation, that friendly spirit which unifies campus life and
makes Davidson what it is. The spirit of perfect co-ordination has as much to do with making a football team
as the fighting spirit which holds back the enemy, for without the former a smashing offense would be impossible and
the latter is necessary in the formation of an airtight defense. The Wildcats this year have both, and it is
this combination which makes the Wildcat spirit.

The unity of the student body, and friendliness between everyone has always marked Davidson life. The close connection between all
the members of the student body is what has kept the Davidson spirit alive. This is the true basis of
the Davidson spirit.

Whatever the activity may be, whether athletics, debating, writing for the college publications, or the daily grind of class work,
he who puts all he has into the matter in hand is the man who is living up to the
ideals of the Wildcat spirit, and the man who will succeed in the game of life.

We students of Davidson are proud of our football team; we are proud of the coaches who make it possible;
we are proud of the Davidson ideals which rule in our hearts and make the school what it is. Whatever
the line of activity or whatever the line of work in which we are engaged let us remember that:

When the one great Scorer comes to write against your name,
He writes not how you won or lost, but how you played the game.

It is the spirit and not the result that counts.

ARMISTICE DAY

Next Tuesday the whole civilized world unites in celebrating the end of the most terrible conflict ever waged in the
history of man. Six years ago the guns were still booming and Allies and Hun were still engaged in the
fight to determine whether freedom or tyranny should prevail. Then came the eleventh of November, a day which the world
can never forget, when after more than fifty months of continuous fighting the white flag was hoisted and the carnage
ceased,—the eleventh of November, 1918, the greatest day in the progress of freedom and democracy since that July day one
hundred and forty-two years before, when a band of patriots signed the Jeffersonian document which gave our country its independence,
and the world a statement of democratic freedom.

One sunny July day ten years ago, an Austrian prince was assassinated, and with this as a pretext, the world
was plunged into the bloodiest and most cruel war ever known. With an efficiency which proclaimed carefully laid preparations, Germany
and Austria flung their armies into Belgium and France, Russia and Serbia, intending and expecting to sweep all before them
in their victorious march—and they almost succeeded.

Belgium, England, France, Japan, Serbia, and Russia were arrayed against the forces of the Kaiser Wilhelm and the Emperor Franz-Joseph
in a desperate fight for the preservation of the autonomy of themselves and other nations. The five European nations had
warded off the first rush of the Hun, but their lands were still overrun and their homes menaced by the
Austrian, the German, the Turk, and the Bulgar. Italy, who had remained neutral, cast in her lot with the Allies.
Still the conflict raged and the Central Powers kept the offensive. They turned their attentions toward neutrals and non-combatants and
with their nefarious submarine warfare killed thousands of innocent women and children.

For a time the United States hesitated. There was a division of sentiment which could not be overlooked. But there
was a limit beyond which the Germans could not pass with impunity. They passed it; and on the sixth of
April, 1917, America declared war. Smaller powers followed and twenty-three nations and states were arrayed, if not actively at least
in name, against the “mailed fist” of the Kaiser.

The conflict seemed never-ending. Millions of lives were sacrificed on both sides but peace seemed impossible. Fighting side-by-side with their
allies who had held out for three years against the attacks of the enemy, the doughboys relentlessly thrust back the
Hun in the Argonne, at Chateau-Thierry, at Belleau Wood, and along the whole front. The Germans were weakening. Weapons which
had made the war the most cruel in history were being used against them with telling effect. They were being
pushed steadily back toward their own border, and they were ready for peace. They signed the Armistice, and a world
which for four long years had been plunged into the depths of sorrow and hatred became suddenly gay—hysterical with joy.
A step toward making the world “safe for democracy” had been taken. Mothers and sweethearts would see their loved ones
once more—all who had not already gone into the great beyond. The men who had fought in all the mud
and muck of the trenches

With the College Editors

Chaff

PUTTING A KICK IN AMUSEMENTS

When men are rightly occupied, their amusement grows out of their work, as the color petals out of a fruitful
flower; when they are faithfully helpful and compassionate, all their emotions are steady, deep, perpetual and vivifying to the soul
as is the natural pulse to the body. In the above we have a very brief summary of Ruskin’s attitude
toward amusement and work which is quite as true of today as then. What the writer has to say in
this regard may seem perhaps a bit rambling and disconnected but it is a little known fact that there are
a lot of people in this age who by the time they have reached middle age have so mistreated their
stomachs that all of the food they can enjoy is food that is highly spiced. In other words, they have
eaten so carelessly that it takes a dash of cayenne pepper to spur their sense of taste to appreciation. Many
of us are the same way about amusements. Bridge is an excellent game that requires skill and concentration and offers
an opportunity for sociability.had the assurance that they would see home again—all but those whose homes and loved ones had
been wiped out by some German bomb or shell. It was a day of joy, tinged with the greatest sorrow
the world has ever known. The Hun was beaten, but at what a cost. There are some who say that
the war should have gone on until the Allies should have marched triumphant through the gates of Berlin. But these
fail to take into consideration that human life is the most valuable thing in the world. The fact that even
one son was saved to his mother, more than overbalances the prestige which an entrance into Berlin would have given
the Allies, or the humiliation of the Germans which the world longed to see. Although it is a day of
happiness, sorrow claims a large share in the remembrance of Armistice Day. The memory of the dead who fought for
our freedom is ever with us. To us at Davidson, there comes a closer bond for twenty of Davidson’s sons
made the supreme sacrifice during the great struggle.

But there are people who play so much that these two factors lose their edge, and in order to keep
up a jaded interest in the game a little money is placed on the outcome. It is only an admission
that the mind is losing some of its keenness. Humor gets up against the same proposition. The time of good,
wholesome jokes is getting dimmer with the passing days. We do not get enough kick out of the kind of
thing that Mark Twain immortalized. We want the dash of the risque before we can appreciate humor. It is much
easier to add the spices than to spend time in adding the cleverness. Just another indication that the speeding up
process is getting the best of our better selves. Perhaps the worst thing about the social gambling is that it
is an admission that we are getting fagged in the game of life before the whistle is blown for the
first quarter to end.—The Emory Wheel.

THE DEBATING TEAMS — For several years the debating teams of Vanderbilt have occupied an unenviable position, which their successes
have done little to change. They are tolerated, but not supported by the student body. A handful of students has
only slightly augmented the extra-campus audiences when the debates, both local and intercollegiate, were held on the campus itself. Not
infrequently the judges have seemed a considerable minority of those in attendance. It would be little wonder if both literary
societies and the debating council withered in such an atmosphere. It is much to their credit that they have continued
at all, and an unusual distinction that they have made appreciable progress during the interval. Last year, indeed, Vanderbilt conducted
the largest program of debates in her history. Upwards of 75 men participated in the preliminary try-outs (there are over
1,400 enrolled in the University). Debates were held with Tulane and Texas in the Triangular League, and with Kentucky, Tennessee,
Sewanee, and Alabama in the Pentangular League. More significant of this progress, however, was the inauguration of debates with Sewanee,
Cumberland, and Union in 33 of the best high and prep schools in the state. Quoting Mr. A. W. Taylor,
debate manager of last year, we find that “in all more than 5,000 high school boys and girls heard Vanderbilt
debaters.” These debates proved a decidedly effective method of introducing Vanderbilt to the high school students of Tennessee. While the
program for the present year has not been completed, notice has been given that the extension debates will be extended
to include twice the number of last year. This will be in addition to the regular debate program with Southern
colleges, and the value to Vanderbilt will be increased proportionately. It is hoped that by calling attention to the significant
work being done by the debating societies, some measure of recognition by the students will be granted them. They are
certainly deserving of the courtesy of having at least a fair student representation at the local debates—The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Over seven hundred fought under the flag—half of them officers, and half enlisted men, all soldiers of their country. As
a result of the war, but to it may be traced College Day. Reaction from evil and cruelty is not
an instantaneous thing. Since the Armistice there have been international troubles, and the world has been in a state of
unrest as the beginnings of peace and prosperity, and for that reason we remember it as one of the truly
great days of history. To those connected with Davidson there is a more local meaning connected with the eleventh of
November. It is Davidson College Day. For eighty-seven years Davidson has existed and prospered. There may have been periods of
retardation, but they are past. Today Davidson stands where she has never stood before. Her halls are crowded with students,
her upright spirit and traditions still live in the heart of her every son. At Davidson, Armistice and Davidson College
Day will always mean: first, a tribute to those who fought to maintain our freedom, and next, a memorial to
the glorious record which lies behind the College, and a pledge to her future greatness.

There once was a funny old geezer
Whose name was Tiglath-pileser.
He was so full of bull
That his friends called him Put.
Of the Hebrews he was the squeezer.

There was an old man from Tarentum,
He had some false teeth but he bent ’em.
When asked what the cost
Of what he had lost
He said he didn’t know for he’d rent ’em.

There once was a famous Amoeba
Who desired to get him a Sheba.
She took all his gold
And turned him down cold.
But you ain’t alone, ole Amoeba.

Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.
Nov. 12, 1.

Mr. Chester Gump,
Australia,
Care Uncle Bim.

Dear Chester:
It seems a very long time since I have seen you and it has been quite a while indeed. You
know how much I enjoy reading your letters Sunday and just think, Chester, you are going to come back soon
and bring to all the little boys in this country anything they want. But I must tell you something about
myself since you have been gone. You know when you left we were both going to the Toonerville School. I
have finished there now and Papa sent me to this place. Some of the boys call it bird’sville but they
ought not to do that because Woodrow Washington and George Wilson went here. There is a Wilson boy here now
but I don't believe he is any kin to George because George never told a lie and the other night
some mean boys turned me and my bed over. It didn’t hurt the bed but it did hurt my knee.
Then when I got back in bed they came and poured cold water all over me. Chester when you come
back through London don’t forget to stop at Mr. W. G. Shields on Main Street and get a tissue paper
raincoat. I don’t want it for myself but a McMillan boy told me if I didn’t write you and tell
you to get me one he would turn me up. I don’t know what he means by turning me up
but he had a mean look and I am afraid of him. And, Chester, please bring some of the national
food of Australia so I can show those cooks down at the Trough that there is something else that will
do to eat besides grits. Whatever you do, don't forget to bring William B. (Billy) Rice the boy who writes
on the typewriter, a new face. He needs one awfully bad but don’t tell him I said so because he
is an upperclassman. Chester, please don’t forget these things.

Your friend,
PEE WEE McCRAV

BOARDING HOUSE BLUES
(Apologies to Nappy Davis)

1
When I sit down to the table
And I'm as hungry as can be,
And try to eat what I ain't able to,
I say—sez I to me:
If I ever get to heaven
In the sweet old bye and bye;
In ten years or maybe seven,
I will laugh so much I'll cry.

Chorus
I've got those dog-goned boarding-house blues.
I eat red catsup, white beans, brown bread, and gravy,
But I have the blues so bad that I most go crazy.
Oh, those Saturday night, Sunday morning, all the time blues.

2
For I will never have to chew
On tough mule or eat ham
Until my jaws ache through and through—
What I crave now is fresh cooked lamb.
I won’t have to eat those prunes
Nor try to swallow gobs of rice
Mornings, nights, and also noons,
Nor keep from going to paradise.

3
When I see that bowl of grits
As I flop down to my seat—
There in front of me it sits—
I swear no more of them I'll eat.
For it seems that I must eat
Whate’er I find before my plate;
Just eat, and eat, and eat, and eat,
Until I get the tummyache.

4
They call bread the staff of life
Which we poor birds must lean upon,
But I call it the cause of strife
At our joint—it is so bum.
If I can live on through this year
And still come in out of the rain,
The first of June I'll give a cheer
And fifteen rahs for “home again!”

Now friend, I’m not a pessimist,
I like the place where I eat fine.
The only trouble with me is this—
I have those blues most all the time.
