THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

Earliest Days of Davidson’s Baseball History Are Pictured By Former Player

Away back in the dim ages of baseball, Davidson had a team that played just as fast ball as any
team in the state at the present time. In those days the great national game was undergoing a transition from
the popular game of townball, and the game today is laid along the lines that were followed when each side
had as many players as it chose and everyone participated. Such was the information of Dr. E. M. Summerell, who
graduated from Davidson back in '76, and who now lives near Salisbury.

At a recent ball game played on the local diamond, a member of the Davidsonian staff noticed an elderly gentleman
sitting on the top row of the bleachers who seemed to be keenly interested in the game that was being
played by the two contending teams. Seeing a close decision made at the home plate, he leaned over and asked
the younger man about the ruling of the play. The member of the Davidsonian staff, wishing to be polite, drifted
into a discussion of rules that everyone that has ever seen a ball game knows well. He even went so
far as to say that the ball had to go between the first and third bases before it was a
hit. The old gentleman looked at him and laughed, “Why, bless you, son, I played baseball back here 50 years
ago, and haven’t forgotten all about the game.” Both of them laughed at this remark, and Dr. Summerell, for such
it proved to be, launched into an interesting discussion of the grand old game as he knew it.

He came to Davidson in 1872, when the college, just recovering from the ravages of the war, had only a
few students and a small corps of instructors. Where Richardson field is today was only a pine grove at that
time and the athletic activities were conducted on a small lot north of the campus. Dr. Summerell said that he
had a fondness for town ball and that when a baseball club was organized here the spring after he came,
he joined and made the team. He played every position on the field, including pitcher, catcher, and infielder. A pitcher
was rightly named in those times, as a rule was in effect that the ball had to be “pitched” and
not thrown. The catcher stood some distance behind the batter and caught the ball on the first bounce. It is
doubtful today whether some of the best players would care to stop the balls that they threw in that time,
at least with the same kind of receiving apparatus. Nothing but the bare hands was used, and it is said
that very few errors were made by the fielders although the balls were hurled around the lot with a bullet-like
speed and a deadly accuracy. Home-made bats of the good hickory variety were the instruments used and the balls were
made the same as those used today. No established rules had been formulated and a new brand of rules were
made at every contest, each contending team trying to fashion the regulations to suit themselves.

A game was fixed up between the local team of young sports and a club at Concord for a nice
spring day. The other team came, saw, and conquered, leaving with something like a 39 to 2 victory in their
possession. According to Dr. Summerell, no intercollegiate games were played until a later date, the sport being entirely novel, and
had not even gained a foothold at most of the state institutions.

Dr. Summerell, in spite of his age of over 70 years, is an active practitioner of medicine and a successful
farmer. He told of a reunion of the members of his class in 1916, in which only about a dozen
attended. He knows of only one more member of the same class who is living today, but he hopes to
have a little private reunion of the class members on the fiftieth anniversary of the class. Dr. Summerell is still
a loyal alumnus and is for everything pertaining to the advancement of the college.

COMMENCEMENT ISSUE OF MAGAZINE OFF PRESS SOON

The commencement issue of the Davidson College Magazine according to W. F. Galloway, retiring Editor-in-Chief, will be slightly shorter than
usual on account of lack of financial support. This is the last issue that will be put out by the
1924 staff. Among the articles featuring the final number will be an impressionistic Essay on Thought, by John B. Gallant,
another short story by Warren C. Ogden and several poems by James Henry Caligan. The magazine will be off the
press within a week or more.

Mr. E. L. Buie, of Red Springs, spent several days last week with Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas.

Ramble | Bushes

Dear Bill:

It shore is a tarnation rush up here at this place. I’ve been thinking I'd get to tell you the
news fer the last two months, but it’s worse’n a yaller jacket fight in road workin’ time, an’ you don’t
git no further than a dog chasin’ his tail. Why just this very mornin’ I here’d the last tap of
that bell they ring for breakfast, an’ I jumped plum off the top-decker an’ landed right in my breeches whut
I allers hang on a chair all set so I can hit ‘em first thing, an’ just as I jumped
the second time I hit one shoe an’ missed the othern, then I remembered I'd flung it out the winder
at one of them “Smart Elick” guys whuts forever pokin’ planks in the winder about the time I go to
sleep tryin’ to figger out whut them Greeks meant by all them funny marks they used to make, letters some
call ‘em, but I don’t believe them fellers knowed much cause I can't make out a single thing that looks
like sense to me.

Well I got that shoe and pulled it on as I hopped down tore’d whur I git my meals, cause
I knowed I had to git thar early or all the ege’s be gone, turned out I snatched half o’
one as a Franklin boy raked out the last two of ‘em. Then I spilt nearly all my coffee down
the front o’ my coat an’ thar I wuz, hungry as a old sow an’ no time to do a
thing ‘cept grab a piece of bread as I made a dive for the door, cause I here’d that bell
ringin’ again and I run all the way to the campus.

Well, Jim, I gotta begin gittin’ ready for what they call exams, they allers make take one ‘fore you can
say you aint a Fresh or some such, they put you off in a room an’ tell you to write
a book about whut you've studied for the last four months, an’ you oughter see some of these here teachers
cut up over the stuff they read to us, they says it’s real good but sounds to me like foolishness.
But I aint got time to tell you hardly a bit more cause when these here exams come never got
used to “shootin’ the profs” as the boys call it, I aint forgot that time I here’d the Brown boy,
the one we used to call Vickie, say, “Boys that prof shore shot me cold!” And he said it so
pained like that I got so mad I most cussed an’ started to cut down on one o’ the teachers
when a feller said, “You fool, he just asked Vickie a question he couldn't answer, he aint hurt.” I thought
he wuz shore enough shot, an’ Jim, that Brown boy must be makin’ good cause he allers looks smart and
peart as Aunt Fan’s youngun did when he got that speakin’ meddle, they tell me the gals like him too,
and he nearly always sells tickets to these actin’ club shows we have up here.

Jim, you'll just have to wait till I git home so I can tell you the news, taint long now
cause I here’d ’em say somethin’ about exams startin’ the 22nd. And I'm goin’ to slip off before they start
again, I guess they’re just goin’ to go right on thru the summer with school cause I here’d some say
somethin’ about a “commencin” that will start about the 4th day o’ June, I don’t know for you remember I
slipped off on ’em last year and it sounds like the same talk to me. Be shore an’ bring the
waggin sheet when you meet me at the station, so if it rains we can cover up my suitcase.

Yours as ever,
Sam.

THREE ORIGINAL ONE-ACT PLAYS (Continued from page 1)

taken by James Milhous, Tom Jones, Misses Dorothy Powell and Cornelia Wearn, of Charlotte.

The second of the three plays that will be offered was written by W. F. Galloway, and goes under the
title The Only Way. Warren Cox will take the leading role, and will be seen as Mr. Graham. Other characters
will be represented by Francis Galloway, Hayden Hollingsworth, Benton Wharton, Joe Walker, and Miss Mabel Groff, of Savannah.

The play, by Professor Erwin, will be a highly amusing comedy, with the title Ice Cream Soda or the Converted
Missionary. Arthur (Piggy) Martin, who has made a name for himself in humorous characterizations, plays the part of the chief
character, Murray Thomas, an ambitious lawyer of Morganton, N. C. The supporting cast includes such stars as Simril Bryant, Linton
Deck, and Miss Katherine Carr, of Mooresville.

Sophs Flare Forth In Revelry Again

Tonight Marks Second Event of Eating, Drinking and Merry-Making

Tonight at 8:00 o'clock the Sophomores are going to have a second banquet. The committee in charge of preparations consists
of Lindamood and Minter, with Franklin as chairman. The banquet is to be held at the Misses Shewmake’s, and promises
to be a wide-awake, “eat, drink, and be merry” time. The purpose of this second banquet is as an aftermath
to the more elaborate one held in Charlotte on March 13. It is to increase class spirit and to bring
a closer feeling and co-operation among the members. C. E. Houston, popular member of theClass, will act as toastmaster, and
promises a peppy, interesting program. “Nick” Sappenfield will make a brief talk on the future of the class. Tom Baker,
retiring president, will entertain with a survey of the present, and “Buck” Shaw, rising mentor of the class, will discuss
the future and plans for it. Besides these, there will be other interesting short talks. Dr. J. W. MacConnell will
make a speech characterized by his usual punch and good advice. The principal talk of the evening will be given
by the Sophomore faculty adviser, Dr. Fleagle. Besides the two members of the faculty and members of the classes, several
prominent members of other classes will be present. Covington, Hillhouse, Briggs, Jones, and possibly several others, will attend and be
called on for talks.

BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE

(Continued from page 4)

Groups, in conferences and in athletics. The athletic side of the program is complete in every detail, carrying with it
such sports as baseball, tennis, basketball, swimming, boating, and hiking. The morning is always opened with a cold plunge in
the lake, or a short vigorous hike to some nearby mountain peak, after which come the other duties of the
day.

The list of speakers and directors will carry such names as Dr. A. M. Trawick, of Wofford College; Mr. Sherwood
Eddy, Dr. W. D. Weatherford, Mr. Kirby Page, and other outstanding characters in college and Y. M. C. A. work.

Students from 10 states, representing over 150 colleges, and numbering some 500 men, were in attendance at the last Blue
Ridge Conference. And the conference of this year promises to be even larger and better. Three colleges in three different
states promise quotas of at least 50, and others are coming in only a slightly less force. Davidson men realize
the value of these days at Blue Ridge, and the number of her delegates is swelling daily. But the goal
of Davidson is to have the largest delegation present this year. To do this, every man must seriously consider his
ability and possibility of attendance there. Expenses, exclusive of railroad fare, will be: Program fee, $7.00; plus board, room, etc.,
for 10 days, $25.00; totaling $32.00. But this expense cannot and must never be interpreted in terms of what the
return from it will be. That is incalculable. The opportunity being offered, an able man declining it does so at
an infinite loss to himself.

The lure of the entire conference is irresistible. With its sports, its lectures, its associations, its friends, its wonderful surroundings
are its own advertisements. Solicitation is never practiced, only opportunity is offered. And so great is its lure, its attraction,
and its benefits, that June 17 will find almost a thousand boys sporting and living together in this haven of
pleasure and delight for the Southern Y. M. C. A. man. Davidson men are going, and he who delays his
decision is going to be left off the bandwagon when it pulls out. The consensus of opinion among all Davidson
boys who have attended these conferences is that they are of immeasurable value.

Mother’s Love and Prayers Are Continuous Factors Asserts Mrs. Lingle Who Speaks Before Ministerial Band Sunday

At the Mother’s Day service of the Ministerial Band last Sunday, the Band was exceptionally favored by a talk from
Mrs. T. W. Lingle. Mother of love and encouragement from Mothers. In beginning, she told something of the attitude of
women toward the attention of men. Women resent cold chivalry, politeness not prompted by love, and they resent the condescending
gratitude of protection on the part of some men for the weaker sex, because women have been recognized more or
less as the equal of men. She cautioned the members of the Ministerial Band that they study their mothers and
other women that they might have a better understanding of womankind before they go into the ministry on account of
the majority of women in the church. As matron of Davidson, she asked the men to help the mothers of
the community in maintaining the standards of Davidson both by being careful in the selection of girls invited to events
on the Hill, and by improving the humorous material in our college publications.

In speaking of the relations between mother and son, Mrs. Lingle told of the little attention and expressions of love
that a mother wanted from a son and things which would make mother’s life happier. The relations between a mother
and daughter are entirely different from those of mother and son. A mother lives her life over again in that
of her daughter, but a son is just another suitor. She expects of him little attentions of love which gladden
her heart and brighten her life. He can practice the courtship of his girl on his mother by taking her
to a show occasionally, by giving her little things that he knows she likes, and by spending some time with
her. A son should have his mother meet his friends, both girls and boys. Mrs. Lingle stated that if some
of the boys’ mothers really knew the “flapper girls,” they would find out what fine girls they are and find
that their opinions were perhaps erroneous concerning the so-called flapper. In closing, Mrs. Lingle left the thought with her audience
that a mother’s children always stand uppermost in her mind, that when they are far from home, she is continually
thinking of them, anxious for their safety and eager to hear good news from them. It was suggested that the
boys tell their mothers of the good times they have, because they enjoy them as much as their sons.

A. N. Moffett led the meeting and introduced Mrs. Lingle. Piggy Martin’s quartet sang "My Mother's Prayers Have Followed Me"
during the first of the meeting.

DR. W. D. WEATHERFORD
President Southern College Y. M. C. A.’s, Who Will Be One of the Many Speakers at the Southern Student Conference,
June 17-26, 1924

Captain Ellis Ends Four Years Service at Davidson
Performs Efficient Service With Unit and as Track Coach

When this year comes to a close it will mark the end of service here for a man who has
been, during his stay at Davidson, a true Davidson man. Capt. M. H. Ellis came to Davidson on January 21,
1921. Before coming here he had seen service on the Mexican border with the cavalry. Previous to going into the
army, Captain Ellis was a student at Allegheny College, Penn. Upon graduating there in 1917, he joined the army and
was commissioned a second lieutenant on August 5, 1917. He was sent to the Mexican border where his entire time
was spent prior to his transfer here. His efficiency was of the highest, and for proof of this one need
only note his rapid promotion. When the time came for him to leave his post on the border, the company
of which he was a member presented him with a gold watch in token of the love and esteem which
they felt for him. As head of the Sophomore department for four years and as assistant in the Senior department
for two, he has carried on this reputation. Captain Ellis’ efficiency deserves double praise, for he came here as a
cavalry officer and has creditably performed the duties of the infantry. For the past two years, he has been track
coach, giving of his time that Davidson’s athletic name might be advanced. He has been a constant advocate of clean
athletics and to him goes the credit for the development of such track stars as Davidson claims. While here, Captain
Ellis has been loyal to both school and government and has been a marked credit to both. He has in
every way entered into the true spirit of Davidson’s customs and traditions and he may leave, knowing that he has
the heartiest good wishes of the entire student body as he takes up his new duties at the Cavalry School,
Fort Riley, Kansas, after spending three well-earned months of rest at his home in Meadville, Penn.

Approximately 175 New Men Already Registered
Entire Freshmen Class Roll Will be Completed Before June

During no period in Davidson's history have applications for entrance been so numerous as they have been this year. By
May 5, Mr. Hengeveld’s books recorded 157 already signed up and with fees paid. In the following week, about 25
more applications and fees came in, making a total of approximately 175. If the registration of incoming Freshmen continues at
this rate, all possible places will be filled by commencement. The 225 that the faculty set as a maximum is
going to prove much too small to take care of all applications. If these first 225 register before the summer
begins, there will be no further opportunity for admittance except by the withdrawal of some name on the list. With
such a demand for entrance, Davidson should get a better prepared incoming Freshman class. This is hoped for both by
the faculty and by the student body.
