THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

Charlotte to Davidson
Look For Our Private Phone
Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co. in Brown’s

VICTORY CAFE
A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service
West Trade and Poplar Streets
Charlotte

We Invite Your Business
LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

Town News

Miss Sally Lafferty has returned from Rome, Ga., where she visited her brother, who is a pastor in that city.

Mrs. C. M. Richards entertained at tea on Monday afternoon. Visiting her was her daughter, Sophie, who is a Junior
at Converse.

Several of the men of the church, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Dr. C. R. Harding, Prof. A. Currie, Prof. W.
W. Wood, and Mr. Ir. Le Jackson, attended a men’s meeting in Mooresville on Sunday afternoon.

Mr. Spencer Cranford and Mrs. Wilson Cranford visited their parents last week.

Mrs. A. F. Glenn, mother of Bill Glenn, of Spartanburg, S. C., spent a few days last week with Miss
Margaret Adams.

Misses Sara and Martha Hamilton were at home over Sunday. They are teaching at Gastonia.

Miss Leira Hobbs, a teacher at Matthews, was at home during Saturday and Sunday.

The Young Matrons’ Club met for the first time during the fall, with Mrs. F. L. Dendy. Mrs. Mebane, President-elect,
took office. A definite program for the year was fixed. There will be two meetings each month, one devoted to
social pleasures, the other to literary pursuits. Two new members were received, Mrs. H. G. Elliott, and Mrs. D. B.
VanSant. Miss Mamie Withers was the invited guest. When business had been concluded the ladies played rook and enjoyed the
delightful refreshments served by the hostess.

Miss Ellen Gregory, of Concord, spent the week-end with Miss Dorothy Finlayson.

Mrs. Henderson, of Greenwood, S. C., who is visiting her son, Mr. W. H. Henderson, of Davidson, celebrated her 82nd
birthday last Saturday. During the afternoon a number of her friends called to pay respects.

Miss Sallie Schenck, of Queens College, visited her mother during the week-end.

Mrs. J. R. Withers leaves in a few days to visit her niece, Miss Mary Blyth, who is in training
in one of the hospitals in Richmond.

Dr. and Mrs. T. W. Lingle spent the last week-end in Statesville.

Dr. and Mrs. D. P. McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga., were on the Hill Friday afternoon to witness the Freshman game.

Mr. and Mrs. P. J. Garrison, of Covington, Ga., were week-end guests at the home of Mrs. Olin White while
visiting their sons, Joseph M. and P. J., at Davidson College.

Miss White and Miss Robinson, of Winthrop, and Miss Wilson, of Charlotte, were week-end guests of Miss Kate Douglas.

WINGATE COLLEGE ELEVEN (Continued from page 2)

but missed the extra point. Score, 19-0. In the third quarter Harrison intercepted a pass and went 40 yards for
another marker and Overton added one point from placement. Wingate made their only earned first down in the fourth quarter
after an exchange of punts, but they soon lost their advantage when they fumbled and the Kittens recovered. Overton then
went 25 yards for the final score of the game. He failed to kick the extra point.

Davidson kicked off but the game ended when Wingate made a slight gain. Davidson made 16 first downs to Wingate’s
three, of which two were from penalties. Long gains were in style and the leaders were Grey with a 70
and a 20 to his credit, Overton with a 25, and a 56 yards, Harrison with his 40-yard run. Dick
Grey played sterling football. He went in and put the fight in the Wildkittens that followed them all through the
game. Overton was also in the limelight, while the entire Davidson line proved invincible.

The line-up and summary:
Wingate (0) Position Davidson (38)
McIntyre (C) Left end Melton
Ritchie Left tackle
Left guard
Center
Right guard
Right tackle
Right end
Quarter
Left half
Right Half
Fullback

Score by quarters:
Davidson 6 13 6 13—38
Wingate 0 0 0 0—0

Substitutions—Davidson: W. Grey, Harrison, McMillan, Mauldin, Chatham, Arbuckle, Bakersville, I. Thompson, Cathey, Upton, R. Thompson. Wingate: Finch, Byers, Whitley, Coats,
Byers.

Among the books which have recently been added to the Library are the following:

Seven Ages—By A Gentleman With a Duster. In his new book, the author of The Mirrors of Downing Street traces
the main current of human thought from the age of Socrates down to the present time. The book is written
with great simplicity. The author's purpose is to help the plain man to understand how it is he holds his
opinions, to trace, as it were, the pedigree of his ideas, to dig down to the roots of his thoughts.

Heirs Apparent—By Philip Gibbs. The story all begins over the innocent mishap of pulling a crystal chandelier from its moorings.
Whereupon the two guilty ones were expelled from Oxford, and set out to walk to London with no thought of
the consequences. Here is a story of youngsters born just too late for active participation in the Great War but
profoundly affected by its aftermath, conscious and critical of themselves and the world they live in, in spite of their
surface indifference.

Croatan—By Mary Johnston. In Croatan Miss Johnston has woven her story about that band of English settlers sent by Sir
Walter Raleigh fromPlymouth, in 1587, to settle in Virginia, under the governorship of John White. Virginia Dare, the first child
born in the colony, is the central figure of the romance, the historical facts of which are depicted with all
the vividness and glamour that have become the outstanding qualities of the author’s style. Sir Christopher Guest, Cecily Darling and
Miles Darling, Ruy Valdez, the Spanish boy, Eagle Feather, the Indian, all that company of brave and resourceful men and
women, become of vital interest because of the author’s ability to make them move as living, breathing people of today.

Literary Societies

Philanthropic

Due to a conflicting meeting of the International Relations Club, the regular program of the Philanthropic Society last Thursday night
was postponed, and instead, a short extemporaneous debate was engaged in. The query proposed was, Resolved, That a pound of
gold weighs more than a pound of feathers. Many ludicrous arguments were advanced by Crinkley, on the negative, and Barrington,
on the affirmative, but the judges finally decided that a pound of gold does outweigh a pound of feathers. Just
how much they were influenced by the arguments is a matter of conjecture. H. G. Wells gave an oration on
the subject of Adaptation and Corporation, and after a short business session the meeting adjourned. Although the program was short,
it was exceptionally good, and was enjoyed by everyone.

Pandemic

The program at the last meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society consisted of a debate and a declamation. The query
for debate was, Resolved, That all American cities should take control of the franchises granted by them. On the affirmative
were M. M. Lockhart, Jr. and J. R. Falls, who won over J. S. Foster and M. A. Steele, of
the negative. The declamation was then given by R. S. Wilson. The following new men were taken into the society:
B. K. Cooper, R. S. Link, and J. W. Farnum.

Metrophilian

The program at the meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society last Tuesday night was cut short on account of conflicting
activities. Most of the meeting was taken up with a debate, the question for which was, Resolved, That all American
cities should own and operate all franchises granted by them. The bill was opposed by L. D. Wharton and N.
C. McLeod, who lost the decision to J. Hand and J. E. Singletary, of the affirmative. After a short business
session the following new members were formally received into the society: C. E. Edgar, H. L. Campbell, H. T. Powell,
W. G. Smith, R. H. McPhaul, J. M. Andrew, Roderick McRae, I. H. Williams, W. L. Albright, W. B. Bradford,
H. C. Bridgers, C. F. McRae, J. Wharton, D. H. Currie, W. W. Smith, B. F. Martin.

Junior Eumenean

The Junior Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday night at 9:00 o'clock with almost 100 percent attendance.
An interesting reading was given by F. D. Daniel, his selection from the works of Poe. A debate followed, the
query for which was, Resolved, That the municipalities should own and control all franchises now conferred upon the corporations. The
speakers for the affirmative were J. R. McCravey and Alfred Burgess, while D. H. Howard and W. C. Anderson upheld
the negative. The decision of the judges went to the affirmative. Before adjournment, A. M. Moffett, the senior critic, gave
his report.

J. P. WILLIAMS DISCUSSES VALUES OF AN EDUCATION TO THE MINISTERIAL BAND

In addressing the Ministerial Band at its regular meeting last Sunday afternoon, Mr. J. P. Williams, general secretary of the
Y. M. C. A., spoke on the True Values of an Education. Mr. Williams said that it would be foolish
to try to realize what the true values really are because they are so numerous and so varied, but by
putting first things first and using Christ as an example one could approach nearer to finding what they are than
in any other way. Much stress was laid upon the physical, as well as the mental and moral side of
an education. He said that a good physique is as much of a true education as the grades that one
earns. Men don't realize the effect on society they have by going out in its midst with a strong body
as well as a well-developed mind.

In discussing the true values in contact with fellowmen, three relationships were brought out. First, the personal; second, the people
around; and lastly, those outside of personal relationship. “Friendship,” Mr. Williams said, “can be easily scarred by some hasty word
or deed. College friends are worth while and are one of the very biggest parts of education. Cultivate them; they
will stay with you through life.” The last part of the talk was an appeal to get aside and think
things through for oneself. Most men do very little original thinking, preferring to let the other fellow do it for
them. The test of an education lies in looking at things with an inquiring mind, for an inquiring mind certainly
is thinking. The final point was the value of putting first things first.

One Garage For Rent
See Dr. Hood

“Working Your Way” Made Feasible

Writing life insurance has enabled many a man to pay his way through college. It is a dignified calling and
a true social service. To induce your fellows to form habits of thrift—to obligate them to put by a little
of their income—to safeguard them against future loss of earning power—is a form of effort that brings keen satisfaction as
well as profit. These are only a few of the reasons why the insurance business today is attracting the very
best brains of America.

Write for the full particulars of a plan whereby you can assist yourself through college, and, at the same time,
prepare for a profitable and satisfactory business career.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. Gunter, Vice-Pres. & Agency Manager

New York Cafe
Davidson, N. C.

RAIN
When Hungry Call On Us

CENTRAL
Dyeing and
Dry Cleaning
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest and Oldest
HAT SHOP
Pressing Best
