4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.................Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH................Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
J. M. SELSER........Athletic Editor
A. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher Editor
J. A. LANE........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS........Alumni Editor

Business Staff
J. H. THOMESON........Circulation Manager
T. C. McEWAIN........Subscription Manager
J. G. GILCHRIST........Service Manager
W. E. WINGATE........Advertising Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
I. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON
G. McMILLAN
J. E. MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY
E. P. O'CONNOR
H. S. STINSON
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. L. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. B. THOMPSON
P. E. JONES
I. D. WHARTON
W. T. LYNCH
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

When there's fire on the Hill, there's always plenty of water to quench it.

April Fool’s Day passed without the usual midnight revels. The students fool the professors enough every day without having a
special celebration.

If the Juniors don’t want Junior Week rained out, they had better try a little April Fool stuff and get
the jump on Jupiter Pluvius by announcing that Speaking will not start until the 22nd, when it’s all over.

That won’t do any good, though, because there are baseball games on the Hill on the 19th and 20th.

The fraternities, acting as hosts to the upperclassmen, made the past weekend a long-to-be-remembered occasion. In sponsoring the non-fraternity weekend,
the Pan-Hellenic Council has strengthened the feeling of unity which exists between all Davidson men. Rain deluged the campus and
muddied both the twos and threes of the visitors and the tens and elevens of the students, but it failed
to dampen the holiday spirit of the occasion. The Saturday night reception at the gymnasium was a success from every
standpoint. The tables were loaded with good things from the homes of the hosts in all parts of the South,
and Tennessee ham, North Carolina sandwiches, South Carolina chicken, Georgia pie, and Virginia cake all shared the same fate. Everything
about the party was fine except the mud, and all agreed that it has never been beaten.

The work of the retiring staff is over, but it is their work which will count in the management of
the Davidsonian during the coming year. For a year the new staff has worked under and with those who have
finished their work. They have learned the spirit which makes the whole organization work for the betterment of the publication,
and through it, for Davidson. What measure of success the Davidsonian may attain during the next term will be the
result of the untiring efforts and limitless patience of the men who have completed their active work, but who have
left an indelible imprint on the minds of those who follow them.

Spanish is asserting its force more and more, but German, like Banquo’s ghost, refuses to down. The Spanish Club of
Queens College is not permitted to come to Davidson to co-operate with the local Spanish Club in the presentation of
a Spanish program on Spanish night because of a slight epidemic of German measles.

JUNIOR WEEK

One more week remains before the Easter holidays and Junior Week. The Class of ’25 has completed plans for the
occasion and asks the full co-operation of the entire student body in making the week a success. Last year the
Junior Class set a standard which is a hard one to maintain. Never were there as many girls, or as
many features for their entertainment. This year the holidays have been lengthened to five days and plans have been laid
for the best Speaking ever. To all the students, the Class of ’25 extends a cordial invitation to remain and
help make the holidays the best ever.

SPORTSMANSHIP

The essence of true sportsmanship lies in fairness to the opposing teams. The Wildcat spirit has always stood for the
highest ideals of sportsmanship. Davidson has always believed in giving her opponents a fair chance in all contests. The Davidson
spirit has come to be recognized as synonymous with sportsmanship wherever the Davidson team plays.

Sometimes, however, it is hard to draw the line between good and poor sportsmanship. There is a tendency to indulge
in ragging and personal rooting, which, though commonly practiced at professional contests, does not fit in with the best college
sportsmanship. Such rooting detracts from the efficiency of the opposing team and gives the home team an unfair advantage which
it does not want. Cheering for the team is a necessary thing, and we should yell our lungs out for
Coach Younger and his men; but we, as sportsmen, should refrain from booing misplays of our guests, from hooting the
players, or from doing anything to detract from the efficiency of our opponents. The visitors are at a disadvantage as
it is, and this inequality should be reduced to a minimum.

During the coming week, the Red and Black nine meets Wake Forest, N. C. State, and Guilford in three games
on the home diamond. The team has been in a hitting slump and will need the support of every one
of us to hit its stride in the home games. Only one home game remains on the schedule after this
week and organized cheering at these games, with omission of anything which will tend to put the visitors at a
disadvantage, will do much to keep Davidson sportsmanship on the high level which it has always occupied.

THE HOME STRETCH

Although the sport of kings has come into disrepute in many circles, there still runs in the veins of every
man the love of the race, whatever it may be. There can be few greater thrills than to see a
field of thoroughbreds turn into the home stretch, driving for the wire with every ounce of energy that is in
them, and to watch them as they flash over the line, fighting every inch of the way, the victory in
doubt to the last.

In the blue-blooded horse flesh of Ken-and it was during his regime that the paper was enlarged to its present
size. The first five-column Davidsonian was the 1919 Commencement issue. It contained ten pages and cuts added greatly to the
makeup. Roberts had to leave school on account of his health, and S. H. Askew was elected in his place.
During the years 1919-21, C. J. Matthews was business manager, and the paper entered a period of great prosperity. Ten
and twelve-page papers were run and an eight-page copy was the exception rather than the rule.

In Kentucky, there lives a spirit, handed down from generation to generation, a spirit which cannot be broken; and the
knights of the turf who back these equine racers with their cold cash know that when the barrier is raised,
that spirit, the inbred love of victory, will make the race a grueling fight from start to finish. There will
be no loafing, and horse and jockey both will fight for the wire and the winner’s circle. It is the
same in human life. The folks back home are backing us in the race of life. They placed their money
on us, and what is more, their time, energy, love, and everything that they have. The race is on and
they are banking on us to put everything we have into it, and to end up as winners before the
judge’s stand. But whether we win or not, the main thing is to put everything we have into the race.

The followers of the race track have the assurance that their entry is hammering its way toward the goal, putting
everything into each step. Are we fighting all the time to deserve the backing we get from home? We each
have the ability to make good if we try. The spirit of the thoroughbred is in our veins, and it
only remains for us to bring it to the surface. The barrier is up and we are on the course,
some of us far behind, but all of us possible and probable winners. The session of 1923-24 is almost over.
A little over a month remains till examinations force themselves on our minds once more. Some of us are behind
in our work, seemingly hopelessly so—but the race is never over until the entries flash past the wire. We have
passed the three-quarter mark and are turning into the final stretch. There is still time enough left for those of
us who are lagging behind to catch up with the leaders and enter the home stretch with a chance against
the favorites; there is still a chance to finish in the money.

J. E. Cassell was editor during 1920-21 and had a large part in the founding of the North Carolina Collegiate
Press Association. The organization of the paper reached a high plane of efficiency and carried more news than before. J.
M. Richards edited the paper during 1921-22 and a period of retrenchment was necessary after the mushroom growth of the
two previous years. The previous business department had left the Davidsonian a debt of eighteen hundred dollars. The paper was
cut down to six pages, but the subject matter and makeup of the paper benefited by the work of the
seven previous years, and the Davidsonian, though smaller, was an improved paper. The paper, through unwise management, had grown beyond
itself, and the staff was wise enough to sacrifice the present for the future good of the publication. The next
year, with R. F. Davidson at the helm, the paper resumed its eight-page form. The paper was cleared of the
eighteen hundred dollar debt which hung over it, by W. T. Cooper, business manager, part of the amount being canceled,
part paid through the college by an unknown donor, and the remainder subscribed by the student body out of the
damage fee. The paying off of this debt placed the Davidsonian on its feet once more, and it ranked once
more among the leading weeklies of Southern colleges.

Liston D. Elkins, who edited the paper during the past term, is the tenth editor. Under his leadership, the paper
is better than ever before. This has been accomplished both because of the good business management, which has kept the
paper clear of overhanging debt, and because of the efficiency which has been attained in gathering news. Elkins, in addition
to putting over the best Davidsonian, has worked with editors of other college papers in the capacity of president of
the N. C. C. P. A. The Davidsonian during the past year has become the liveliest college weekly in the
South. It contains a larger number of news articles each week than any Southern college weekly. Besides the departments, such
as The Dope Fiend, The Reel Stuff, Who Knows? The Peanut Parcher, Chaff, Davidson Five Years Ago, Niches in the
Wildcat Hall of Fame, Alumni News, and Town News, the Davidsonian runs between thirty and forty-five news articles each week;
this is a larger number than is run by any other college weekly in the South. With such a record
of continuous progress behind them, the members of the eleventh staff start their work. They have ten years’ experience behind
them to aid them in their efforts. In starting on the second decade of the Davidsonian, the new staff still
has as its slogan, “For a Better Davidson.”

Chaff

THE GLOVE
(Adapted from Browning et al)

Clara had never been able to decide between George and John. George was rich and a member of the four
hundred, while John rode around in a flivver, but then John’s kisses were so sweet. Of course, George had told
her that he would die for her, and that he would give his life rather than see one of her
bobbed tresses injured. John’s love versus George’s Cadillac and professed devotion. It was a hard question to decide, and why
should she worry when she had both. Clara was a member of the four hundred herself, and that complicated matters
and gave George the advantage. Her friends knew nothing of John, and she didn’t see any reason for advertising him
just at present. It was nice to belong at the best clubs, and then sometimes to attend the firemen’s ball
incognito, or to listen to John enjoying his corned beef and cabbage. Although John liked corned beef and cabbage, he
didn’t look like Jiggs, and Clara looked much more like Maggie’s daughter than like Maggie. But Maggie’s daughter didn’t wear
bobbed hair. George was different. She called him her knight and he treated her with the greatest chivalry which was
an uncommon procedure even among the four hundred. While he carried a flask to accommodate her, he never indulged, and
smoked exactly five cigarettes per diem. But George had the redeeming features of an Arrow collar ad, danced divinely, and
was a wo-o-nderful conversationalist. And so things went on delightfully with both George and John getting a kick out of
life (in George’s case it was purely a figurative kick) until Clara began to wonder if George really would be
willing to die for her. Then came her great chance. George owned a hacienda near the Mexican border and invited
a houseful of the right people down for a month of hilarity during the co-old winter months. Clara accepted the
invitation and hating to leave dear John for so long a period, advised him to qualify as a bootlegger and
hotfoot it down to the border in his well-worn flivver. John was in search of more lucrative employment and acquiesced
to her wishes. By the time Clara arrived, John was the confidential agent of each and every one of the
merrymakers. Clara acted circumspectly, and George daily professed his undying devotion and his readiness to die for her sake. When
an excursion was proposed to an arena across the border, Clara felt that her chance had come. The fateful morning
arrived at last and high-powered cars whisked the party across the Rio Grande into Mexico. The glamor of the occasion
struck Clara forcibly; she was in the land of the Spanish athlete; she could see the bull shot, knifed, and
butchered. They arrived on the scene of the fight, and procured front row seats. Deftly Clara turned the conversation to
knightly deeds while the maddened bovines were loosed in the pit below. Most of the males averred that the risking
of life for a lady’s favor was mere foolishness, but George stoutly maintained that where Clara was concerned nothing was
foolishness. Clara tossed her glove into the arena. Spurred on by the laughter which rose, George deftly cleared the rail
and dropped into the arena. He corralled the glove, climbed back close in front of the bull’s horns, and flung
the glove in Clara’s face. The guests showed their approval of George’s act, so Clara calmly walked out. Before crossing
the river, she left a note for John telling him to call for her that night in his flivver. Then
she went back to the hacienda and waited. That night John came for Clara, but it was a Cadillac which
carried them away, for he had prospered in his bootlegging trade. When they rolled into Los Angeles several days later,
Clara found a letter awaiting her. She tore it open hurriedly for it was from the discarded George. It contained
a bill for $10.00 for one glove rescued. Gladly, she wrote him a check, for now she had both John’s
love and a Cadillac.
