6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924

Literary Societies

Pandemic

In accordance with the plan proposed by Professor Dendy and accepted by the literary societies for the spring term, E.
K. Regen called for the order of the day and the resolution, that the body concur in the action of
France in the occupying of the Ruhr district, was read. P. M. Dulin, the first speaker of the evening, favored
the bill. J. M. Garrison, the second speaker, opposed the bill. S. W. Moore then spoke in favor of the
bill. D. B. Walthall made the last speech of the evening, speaking for the bill.

G. M. Ford moved that the resolution be adopted by the house. A vote was taken and the motion was
carried by an 18-2 decision. The bill for the next meeting was proposed by Slaymaker and seconded by Regen. The
meeting was then adjourned.

Philanthropic

At the last meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society, the regular program was dispensed with in order that the members
might be able to attend the evening sermon of Dr. Bob King, at Shearer Hall. However, R. H. Brown delivered
an oration on Denby’s Resignation and R. H. Smith gave one on Honor. These required only a few minutes and
the society then adjourned. The Open Forum Plan as adopted by the societies has not yet gone into effect in
the Philanthropic. They will try it for the first time at the beginning of the next society term.

Metrophilian

On account of the revival meeting by Doctor King, the Metrophilian Literary Society held a very brief session. The devotional
was led by A. M. McBryde. The query for debate was Resolved, That Secretary Denby should resign his position as
Secretary of the Navy as proposed by the Senate. The affirmative was upheld by J. H. Caligan, and the negative
was represented by Fraley. The decision was in favor of the negative. M. W. Trawick gave an oration on the
recent article To the Student Body.

HENRY OLDYS TELLS OF FRANCE

(Continued from page 1)

Les Miserables has its setting amid the confused conditions which existed following the French Revolution and the Napoleonic War. Jean
Valjean, the principal character, is convicted of the theft of a loaf of bread and sentenced to serve a term
of 19 years in the prison of Paris. The bread had been taken to ward off starvation. Embittered by his
long period of unjust imprisonment, Jean becomes a confirmed criminal upon his release. His life is changed, however, through the
kind treatment of an old bishop. The ex-convict discovers the secret of making a kind of imitation jewelry and reaps
a fortune from it. He is later elected mayor of his town.

SERIES OF SERVICES

(Continued from page 1)

to be lost, but the way in which he spends it. His closing thought was that God calls men to
every walk of life and that the service man renders is his only true wealth.

Tuesday Night

“Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him,” was the subject of Doctor King’s Tuesday evening sermon. Jesus, who knew all, and
could not make a mistake, must have selected Judas in order that he might serve as a warning to all
the world of what sin can do to a man. For three years Judas lived in intimate companionship with the
Son of God. It was this same companionship that made the “Beloved Disciple” of one of the “Sons of Thunder;”
it was this same companionship that made out of Simon, the rough Galilean fisherman, Peter, the foundation on which God
built His church. But it was in this same companionship that Judas worked his eternal damnation. Dr. King closed by
asking, “What is the pet sin to which you are holding? Christ died to remove your sins; by clinging to
one sin you make His death of no avail and sell Him again as surely as did Judas. There are
but two ways; the way of Jesus which leads to salvation and the way of Judas which leads to suicide,
to self-damnation, which will you take?”

Wednesday Morning

In the chapel service Wednesday morning, Doctor King spoke on the Universal Brotherhood of Christians in Christ, taking as his
scripture reading the 9th to 14th verses of Matthew, the Lord’s prayer. He opened his talk by saying that a
Christian has the most wonderful privileges in the world. The greatest is that of having the right to call God,
“Father.” By simple acceptance of Christ, the son, as our Elder Brother, we are at once adopted into the family
of God and have a right to his fatherly love and protection. He then gave an illustration of a young
immigrant seeking admission to this country. He was an ideal immigrant but there was one thing lacking. He did not
have the amount of money that the immigration laws require that an immigrant have before he be admitted to this
country. He turned around to go back to his ship when a man, his brother, who had been living in
America some years, ran up to the immigration officer and said “I’ll give him the money necessary.” All the requirements
were met and the young man was admitted to his chosen land. But he was admitted by that which was
given him by his brother. Dr. King then pointed out that it is just so with man. No sinner can
enter Heaven, but Christ, our Elder Brother, if we accept Him, has, by His death, removed our sins and made
us fit to enter.

Christ’s greatest enemy, were called in, the speaker brought home to his hearers the fact that all out of Christ
are lost, and that none of their morality is able to save them. “God can see things in you that
neither you nor any other man can discern. I cannot tell you what is in you, but He can. I
cannot commission you to go out and preach the Gospel for Him; but God who sees you can. What does
He see in you? Does He see a doctor, a lawyer, a minister of the Gospel? God sees the truth.
‘He saw a man.”

Thursday Morning

What think ye of Christ? was the text used by Doctor King Thursday morning. The sermon was in the form
of a trial in which witnesses, both from the numbers of Christ's enemies and His friends were called to the
stand. Christ, as the accused, occupied the prisoner’s box, and the witnesses were summoned into court. First the enemies of
Christ were called in to give their testimony. But not one of them said they found any guilt in Him.
Caiaphas, who proposed the death of Christ, said, “It is expedient for us that one man should die for the
whole people, that the whole nation perish not,” thus showing that Christ must die, the innocent for the sins of
the world. The men who arrested Jesus, the Centurion whose soldiers pierced Jesus’ side as He hung on the cross,
Pontius Pilate, before whom Jesus was tried, Judas Iscariot who betrayed Christ, and the Devil himself, but none could give
any reason why Christ was worthy of death on His own behalf. Then the friends of Christ, Peter, James, John
the beloved disciple, and Paul were called in. They gave testimony for Christ, not only with words but by lives
in His service. By every witness, either among friend or foe, Jesus was vindicated of any wrongdoing under the law.
“Will you accept Him, will you take that Great and Innocent One from the Cross where He died for you,
or will you leave Him there, where He may be the subject of reproach by men? What think ye of
Christ?”

Thursday Evening

Using as his Scripture for the evening the words of Christ, There is no difference the fact that all out
of Christ are lost, and that none of their morality is able to save them. “God can see things in
you that neither you nor any other man can discern. I cannot tell you what is in you, but He
can. I cannot commission you to go out and preach the Gospel for Him; but God who sees you can.
What does He see in you? Does He see a doctor, a lawyer, a minister of the Gospel? God sees
the truth. ‘He saw a man.”

Friday Evening

The final service ofThe Life Work Campaign was held Friday evening, when approximately four hundred students heard Doctor King in
Shearer Hall. His theme for the evening was Fitting Into God’s Plan. “God has a great structure in the world,
and He has a place in it for every brick, for every piece of clay. He looked down into the
twentieth century and said, ‘I will need some lawyers to uphold justice in the land, I will need some doctors
to minister to the bodies of men, I will need some farmers to till the soil, and I will need
ministers to carry My word to those in darkness.’” The speaker reiterated his statement that he could not tell a
man what his life-work was to be, but urged that God be allowed to direct the destinies, “Let God tell
you what He has for you in His plan, and then have the determination to carry out God’s will. Success
in life is finding God’s will for your life, and carrying out His will.”

Doctor King called on the members of the Columbia quartette, Messrs. McInnis, Piehopff, Dendy, and Ellis, and Mr. Buhler, the
leader of the song service, to tell of the pay they had received in determining their life’s work along the
lines Christ had revealed to them as His plan. Following this, Doctor King asked for those who would give their
lives to His direction and accept His plan for them. The entire audience came forward, presenting a fitting climax to
the series of meetings.

“Y” SECURES NOTED MEN (Continued from page 1)

upper classes. He visited Davidson both the year before last and last year. He delivered the baccalaureate sermon at Commencement
last spring. Dr. Vander Meulen is always welcomed to Davidson. Rev. Franklin McCoy is from Crossnore, N. C. He has
been offered a large sum for lecturing and impersonation work, but he refused it to stay at Crossnore. He is
just now returning from a northern trip and the “Y” is fortunate in securing him as he is passing through
Davidson. Among the other speakers who have been invited are Bascomb Sorrels, president of the class of 1923, and Rev.
W. C. McLaughlin, missionary to China, who visited here a few weeks ago. A special service for Easter Sunday is
being planned.

SHOWING AT DAVIDSON MONDAY, MARCH 17th

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT DEBONAIR, comfortable, tailored with care that in- DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50 and sold only
by NAT LUXENBERG & Bros. New address N. W. Cor. 13th St. New York City Manufs 841 Broadway Stuyvesant 9898
Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N. J. Our style-memo.
book will be sent free on request.

CENTRAL and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing Shoe Shine In Connection Largest Oldest Best 8 E. Trade St.

CHARLOTTE HAT SHOP

“One sin, persisted in, can keep you out of Heaven as well as the commission of all the sins of
the world. This does not mean that man must live a sinless life. No man but One ever did that.
But it does mean that man must renounce all his sins, and not all but one, and must accept Christ.
Rejection of Christ is the greatest sin. Every day you hold back from Him you are committing a crime worse
than theft, for you are holding back what Christ has bought with His blood. You are committing a crime worse
than murder, for your rejection, your life without Christ, is daily influencing others. You may come to Him later, but
what about the others who may be lost forever through your influence on their lives? Their blood will be on
your hands. Will you longer reject Him?”

Friday Morning

Matthew 9:9 He Saw a Man, was the subject treated in the Friday morning exercises. These words were from the
call of Matthew to be one of Christ’s immediate followers, and were taken to bring to the minds of the
hearers what Christ might see in each of them. “Matthew was a Publican, a cheater, swindler, and hardened sinner. Man,
looking upon him, saw nothing good, but God looked into him and saw a man, and called him who called
many to repentance. A Jew killed an Egyptian and buried him in the sand. He was a fugitive from justice.
But God found Moses and made him the deliverer of His people from bondage.” Similar cases in which God called
David and Saul from lives of sin and made them the man after God’s own heart and the great missionary
to the Gentiles, were cited.

You won’t fumble this cap! Professional jugglers could handle the old-style shaving cream caps and never once drop one down
the drain or under the bathtub. But for most of us, this new Williams Hinge-Cap puts an end to an
ancient nuisance. Williams Shaving Cream is just as much pleasanter to use as is the Hinge-Cap. It softens the beard
with uncanny speed. The thicker lather holds the moisture in against the skin where it is needed. This lather lubricates
the skin, too, so that painful razor friction is eliminated. And when your shave is done, that famous ingredient in
Williams which helps the skin, leaves your face cool, soothed, and refreshed. No coloring matter is used in Williams—it is
a pure, natural-white shaving cream. Williams Shaving Cream
