TuEDAVI ONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 20, 1924 No. 22

JIM HENDRIX ELECTED PRESIDENT OF THE STUDENT BODY

Harry B. Price Elected President of Y.M.C.A.

Student Body Chooses Price for Position on First Ballot

WINS BY GOOD MAJORITY

Y.M.C.A. Expected to Have Splendid Year Under President-Elect

Harry Price, well-known and popular member of the present Junior Class, was elected president of the Y.M.C.A. for 1924-25 in the first of the spring elections, held in the student body last Thursday. The election lacked the excitement usually typical of a campaign for the presidency of the “Y,” and Price was elected on the first ballot. Harry has served as secretary of the “Y” this year, and his work has been characterized by ability and loyalty. He has taken an unusual interest in religious work during his three years at Davidson, and his election to the “Y” honor he well deserves. No nominations were made from the floor in the election, and the ballot prepared by the Student Council was followed without alteration or addition. Other nominees for the presidency were R.W. Martin. Having received the second highest vote for the presidency, Oeland was declared vice-president. The election of a “Y” secretary resulted in a victory for Hayden Hollingsworth, after two ballots had been run. None of the five candidates for the secretaryship received the necessary majority of votes on the first ballot, and the three highest candidates were nominated on the following day. Besides Hollingsworth, the Student Council nominated E.K. Regen, H.L. Shaw, C.E. Houston, and E.D. Witherspoon for the position of secretary.

Sigma Upsilon Elects Six Men to Membership

Sigma Upsilon, Blue Pencil Chapter of the national literary fraternity, has issued bids to the following men: W.H. Sharpe, W.M. Cox, J.A. Lake, D.B. Wharton, A.F. Simpson, and A.M. Martin. Sharpe is a candidate for a Master’s degree, Cox is a member of the Senior class, and Lake, Wharton, Simpson, and Martin are members of the Junior Class. These men were accepted into Blue Pencil Chapter at a meeting held in Pi Kappa Alpha hall last Monday night. They will be initiated at an early date. A short literary program was held in connection with the election at the Monday night meeting. Upon special invitation, W.M. Cox read the first two acts of a four-act play La Esmeralda. The play, as yet unfinished, is written in blank verse. Liston Elkins read an original paper on The Spark of Life in Mencken's Fireworks, defending Mencken as a cauterant of American manners and customs on the grounds that Mencken's criticism is in the form of a catalytic agent, serving to bring about a favorable reaction between the creative artist and the spectator or reader. The local chapter of Sigma Upsilon is composed of the following men: Prof. E.J. Erwin, Prof. F.K. Fleagle, Dr. E.F. Shewmake, J.M. McConnell, Dr. Frazer Hood, J.P. Williams, W.F. Gallaway, R.R. Jones, W.M. Heston, H.M. White, D.B. Walthall, J.R. Walker, Ed Fewell, J.H. Davis, L.D. Elkins. It is the purpose of the fraternity to foster (Continued on page 5)

Midnight Revels Promote Spirit Of Co-operation

Problems relating to the graduating class and worthy contributions that might be made to the student government and campus life were subjects for discussion and exploitation at the Senior class banquet Wednesday night. The “iced” class was spread in the dining hall of Mrs. Shumaker’s boarding house, at 9:30. This gathering of members of the class was one of a series of class suppers scheduled last fall for the promotion of spirit, operations as a class, and for the consideration of campus problems and their relation to the members of the class of 1924. Accepting the gustatory side issue of minor importance, the limelight was claimed by Dr. MacConnell, Professor Davis, and Doctor Hood. Doctor Hood addressed the class on the subject, Beginning a Career After College. Doctor McConnell spoke effectively on Senior Legacy. Professor Dendy entertained the group with a series of anecdotes and readings, centering his renditions around the theme The Psychology of Don't. Bevo Davis directed his well-measured, pointed remarks at Senior attitude, advocating a strenuous constructive policy of co-operation (Continued on page 5)

JAMES PAISLEY HENDRIX Greensboro, N.C. PRESIDENT-ELECT STUDENT BODY

Jim has a shining future ahead of him. The highest honor in the student body is awarded to Jim in recognition of three years of leadership in the lower classes. He played an important role in Davidson athletics and has taken an active part in campus activities. As grand mogul of the student body, Jim has a success in every way.

Junior Week To Enliven Campus At Easter Time

Only a month until Junior Week! The time draws nearer and nearer. The Junior committee in charge of the program and general plans for the occasion is working hard and planning day and night to make this the best ever held on the Davidson campus. The annual eruption of joy will commence in the gymnasium Wednesday night, April 16th, with a fine picture show. What this picture will be has not yet been decided, but the management promises that it will be a feature picture well worth seeing. Thursday such fire as is not already present will arrive. That night the Dramatic Club will present two excellent plays. The previous record of the Dramatic Club in entertaining guarantees that this night will be a success in every way. A baseball game has been arranged to take place Friday afternoon between the Charlotte High School and the Wildkittens. Friday night will prove a success in every way with the Junior speeches. The first part of the program will be taken up with the “double-header.” After (Continued on page 5)

Pan Hellenic Sponsors House Parties and Reception For the Promotion of Campus Wide Spirit of Harmony

Have you written your girl for the weekend of April 5th? If not, sit down now and grab the opportunity. Preparations are being completed and from the spirit exhibited thus far the occasion will be a splendid success. The main item for consideration will be the attendance of the opposite sex, and at present every sign points to a large number being present. Join the crowd; the results will be surprising. Harmony is the only word that will fit the feeling that has been shown so far. Every facility at the command of the fraternities is being placed at the disposal of their guests and a wonderful response has been shown. It can only be hoped that every unconnected non-fraternity man in the three upper classes, without exception, will take advantage of the opportunity and make this weekend the first of many enjoyable parties which will follow in the years to come. Some question has been raised regarding the reason the Pan-Hellenic has seen fit to organize the occasion at such a time as this. A statement from a member of that council can convey the purpose of that body in taking it at length. “The trustees and faculty,”The council granted the different chapters permission to build chapter houses. These will probably be located a short distance from the campus proper and will no doubt draw a small percentage of the fraternity men from the dormitories. Of course, the large majority of the men in the chapters will room in the dormitories even with the houses built.

"But the fraternities feel that it is their duty to take the initiative in taking steps to keep the feeling between the fraternity and non-fraternity men on the same high plane it has occupied. This non-fraternity weekend party is just one of the plans in that direction. The Pan-Hellenic Council hopes to institute this as a custom, and in future years this weekend can be looked forward to as a regular occasion. The entire council feels that every possible means should be used to promote the feeling of unity between the men on the campus and is willing to take any action that helps results in that direction."

(Continued on page 5)

Youthful Jollity Pervades Atmosphere of Queen City As Sophs Celebrate With Jovial Banquet

Much joy was spread by the joyous Sophs in their annual banquet given at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce hall last Thursday night. A program of mirth and jollity arranged by the committee appointed by the class was carried out to the letter, and with the addition of several impromptu speeches of diverse nature, not to mention the delicious menu, the evening was spent in one of the most enjoyable social gatherings of the year.

Nearly a hundred men journeyed to Charlotte late Thursday afternoon, and by 7:00 o'clock the entire body had congregated at the spacious dining hall of the Chamber of Commerce building where a festive spirit was evident in the air, as well as in the decorations of spring blossoms, and purple and gold, the class colors, on the banquet tables. A fraternal spirit manifested itself during the course of the banquet, interspersed with much youthful hilarity and goodwill from everyone. Class friendship, loyalty to '26, and retrospect and introspect of their college life were the predominant themes of the evening.

Mr. F. L. Jackson, president of the Freshman class, was along, and he voiced his sentiments of the good time he was having, in no uncertain tones. W. E. Milton, the class historian, gave a resume of the history of the class since its first advent onto the campus of Davidson. Following these speeches, toasts were given by several members of the class. “To Davidson” was given by Hayden Hollingsworth, in which he gave an inspirational thought to all loyal sons of this college. “To the Faculty,” by C. E. Houston, brought forth in a humorous manner new ideas regarding this body who direct the affairs of Davidson men. H. L. “Buck” Shaw made every one of the class members present thrill with pride with his toast to “'26.” “Looking Forward,” by Hampden Lawson, and “Looking Backward,” by E. P. O'Connor, gave opposite views as to the progress of the class, and both were well to the point. Forrest Franklin entertained the diners with his “Qui Vive,” which brought forth more guffaws. At this time the last vestiges of the dessert were consumed.

(Continued on page 8)

Highest Student Honor Won By Greensboro Boy

Tom Baker and Sappenfield Elected Vice-Presidents on First Ballot

SECOND BALLOT DECIDES

Pinkney Wins Over Bohanon in Race for Secretary-Treasurer

Jimmy Hendrix, of Greensboro, football star and popular member of the present Junior Class, was elected president of the student body for 1924-25 in the run-off election held Tuesday morning. The first ballot was unsuccessful for the presidency among the four nominees, and a second ballot was necessary to ascertain the winning candidate. In the second election, only two nominees were considered, these being Hendrix and Beall. Both of the candidates have served as vice-presidents of the student body in the past term, and the presidential election was exceedingly close. It is believed that more votes were cast in this election than have been cast in a similar election in many years, with practically every member of the student body casting a vote for his favorite of the two candidates.

The vice-presidents of the student body were chosen on the first ballot. From a list of four nominees, Baker and Sappenfield received the majority of votes and were declared elected. Both of the winning candidates have distinguished themselves in athletics, and each has many honors to his credit. For secretary and treasurer, a second ballot was also necessary. Three men were nominated by the student council, and of these, Bohanon and Pinkney received the largest number of votes.

(Continued on page 5)

Bruce Curry Conducts Institute For Leaders

Noted Alumnus Holds Series of Lectures on Methods of Leadership

Fifty students had the privilege of attending, on March 11th and 12th, a Leaders’ Institute, conducted by Rev. A. B. Curry, Jr., an alumnus of Davidson. Mr. Curry, one of the teachers of White's Bible School, of New York City, is making a tour of some of the colleges of the United States under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., giving instruction in methods of leading groups. The institute held at Davidson was the only one in North Carolina.

Is it true that we have given to the heathen nations an “encrusted Christ,” as was charged by one foreign woman? Have we not allowed the footnotes of the Bible text to take the place of the text itself? Should a Christian belong to a fraternity, since that system gives more privileges to a class already privileged? Is it right that a Christian should be a member of the R. O. T. C.? Is the Christian ideal one which is unattainable, or are we expected to fully come up to it in this life? These are some of the questions mentioned during the course, which served to set some of the students to thinking along these lines. Since Mr. Curry has traveled among the different colleges of our country, and has discussed student problems with the students themselves, he is unusually well fitted to lead an institute of this kind. He not only knows the facts but he has the ability to put things across. As different passages of Scripture were considered, the students were asked to apply to them the following questions: What is here? What does it mean? What problem of ours does it bear upon? What suggested solution does it give? Will this principle serve as our guide to living?

(Continued on page 2)