THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

BACK 1924 FOOTBALL

CRUSH CAROLINA SATURDAY

Price Again Defeats Singles and Team Wildcats Lay Claim to State Title by Defeating State Teams—Play Carolina Here Saturday

The Davidson tennis team tied all three of the scheduled matches on their spring trip. The racketeers demonstrated marked superiority
in singles but a sustained slump in doubles play kept them from winning outright. Carolina, Trinity, and the Winston-Salem Country
Club each drew a 3-3 tie from the Wildcats.

Harry Price continued the brilliant play which had won him the North Carolina Collegiate Championship the week before. He made
a clean sweep of his singles matches and played well in the doubles. Harry has gone through the season undefeated
by a Tar-Heel. The Wildcat four virtually holds the state title. These two ties with Carolina and Trinity on foreign
courts and the crushing defeat of Wake Forest at home give the Davidson court men the first claim on the
North Carolina championship. The Carolina racketeers come to Davidson this Saturday, and the result will determine the premier team.

FURNITURE and UNDERTAKING
Everything For The Home
WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

THE CAMBRIDGE
For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of
the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button.
A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

All Comers In Draws Even on Trip

The Red and Black, after finishing the Greensboro tournament with Price's win, swung into the three-match tour through North Carolina.
Carolina, Trinity, and the Winston-Salem Country Club were played on successive days.

Carolina Match

Davidson met Carolina at Chapel Hill on April 28, won three of the singles matches and lost both of the
doubles. Price featured for the Red and Black when he repeated his victory over Solomon who had gone down before
him in the finals of the state tournament. This time Price had less trouble with the Tar-Heel, winning 2-6, 6-2,
6-3. Smith, of Carolina, repeated his win over Trotter, of Davidson, defeating him 7-5, 6-1. Davidson took the other singles
matches, Staley defeating Fuller 6-2, 6-4, and Beall winning from Whitaker 3-6, 9-7, 6-2. Carolina won both matches in the
doubles. Solomon and Smith, of Carolina, won from Price and Staley, 4-6, 6-0, 6-4. Trotter and Beall, of Davidson, lost
to Fuller and Whitaker, 2-6, 4-6.

Trinity Match

Against Trinity on April 29 the Wildcats drew another tie out of six matches, winning two of the four singles
and the lead doubles encounter. Price and Staley registered the victories for the Red and Black. Price won from Johnson,
of Trinity, in straight sets, 6-2, 7-5. Staley also defeated his opponent without dropping a set, taking his match 6-1,
7-5 from Whisnant, of Trinity. Staley teamed well with Price in the No. 1 doubles. They swept Johnson and Burns
aside quickly and ran out the match at 6-2, 6-3. This was the only time in the three meets that
a Wildcat pair played to a win. Trinity got her three matches in the same manner as the Wildcats. Burns
defeated Trotter, of Davidson, in two sets, 6-4, 7-9. Beall, of Davidson, lost to James, 6-2, 6-3. Beall and Trotter
in their doubles against Whisnant and James captured the second set through pure fight, but they could not hold the
pace and lost 6-3, 3-6, 7-6.

Winston-Salem Country Club

The Red and Black net stars finished the trip with another tie resulting in the play with the Winston-Salem Country
Club, on April 30. Price, Staley, and Beall won their singles, while the Winston men defeated Trotter and both Davidson
doubles pairs. Harry Price found a real antagonist in Vance, of Winston, but after dropping the second set to the
clubman, he tightened and carried off the match at 9-7, 4-6, 6-4. Staley also staged a comeback against Montague and
won the deciding set of his match quite handily; score, 2-6, 6-3, 7-5. Staley, in this as well as in
all the play throughout the trip, had trouble with his back, but played well in spite of it. Mac Beall
rushed Brown, of Winston, through to a straight-sets defeat, 6-4, 6-1. The Country Club's lead doubles team, Vance and Montague,
defeated Price and Staley in a lengthy set-to, out of which the Wildcats got the second set, 6-4, 8-10, 7-5.
Brown and Coan defeated Trotter and Beall, 6-4, 6-4; Trotter lost his singles encounter to Coan.

Archie Reeves Shatters Course Record With 32

John Bachman’s Score—Exact Putting Accounts for Low Score

Tuesday afternoon, May 6, Archie Reeves, '27, drove, approached, and putted his way into the Davidson golf Hall-of-Fame when he
lowered the college course record for nine holes by cutting one stroke off Johnny Bachman’s 33, made last December. From
the first tee to the last cup Archie’s play was featured by strength and steadiness throughout; not for once did
he take more than a four for any hole, making four threes and five fours for a total score of
32. His drives were ever strong and far, his approaches well controlled and his putts notably accurate. At the fifth
hole Archie made his two most brilliant plays, yet it was here that he came nearer breaking than elsewhere.

Steady Play Here Tuesday Beats

Five Gridiron Battlers at Davidson Next Year

Elon, Wofford, Lenoir, Clemson, and Carolina Play Here

With the clinching of the N. C. State contract for a game the 1st of November, at Raleigh, Manager A.
W. “Zan” McAllister has completed a schedule for the 1924 season well worthy of the Wildcat mettle. There are only
two deviations from the former schedule. The University of Richmond has taken Wake Forest’s place on the schedule and Lenoir
has been added for the week-end game before the Furman game on November 22. The location of the P. C.
game is still pending, but will be either Rock Hill or Asheville. Clemson, who took Georgia Tech's place last year,
will again be on the schedule for the second time in many years. The North Carolina game will be played
on the new field at Davidson and will constitute the last of the five home games. Davidson and Trinity will
again struggle for the honors of the Turkey Day contest. The Wildcats will journey to Durham for the game.the Blue
Devils in their own lair. There will be 15 lettermen back to form the nucleus of Coach Younger’s veteran team,
the team which must face one of the hardest seasons Davidson ever experienced. Captain Davis will guard one of the
flanks for his fourth season, Baker and Mallery will be on hand for the other end position. The other linemen
back will be: Laird and Lindamood, tackles; Vance, Long, and Boggs, guards, and Briggs, center. The lettermen in the backfield
will be: Hendrix, quarterback; Hunt, Covington, Wells, and DeArmon. Other men who showed up well last season are: Buck and
Anderson, of the Varsity squad, and Sapp, Goodykoontz, Hewlette, and Christian, of the Freshman team. The completed schedule is as
follows:

Sept. 20—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 27—Presbyterian College at Rock Hill or Asheville.
Oct. 4—University of Richmond at Winston-Salem.
Oct. 11—Wofford at Davidson.
Oct. 18—Lenoir at Davidson.
Oct. 22—Furman at Columbia.
Nov. 1—N. C. State at Raleigh.
Nov. 8—Clemson at Davidson.
Nov. 15—University of N. C. at Davidson.
Thanksgiving Day—Trinity at Durham.

DAVIDSON WILL BE HOST
(Continued from page 1)

this conference. They are apportioned as follows: Two delegates from churches of 200 or under, and one additional delegate for
each additional 100 members up to 500. No church will be allowed to send more than five delegates, either young
men or young women, 15 to 24 years of age. A great many highly instructive courses constitute the curriculum, which
includes Bible Classes, Home and Foreign Mission Classes, Stewardship Classes, Sunday School Work, the Study of the Church, Methods for
Young People’s Societies, Vesper Services, Inspirational Addresses. Among those who have been secured to deliver addresses are Rev. Ernest T.
Thompson, Rev. Flournoy Shepperson, Rev. J. T. Murray, Rev. J. Harper Brady, Kochi, Japan; Samuel M. Glasgow, Rev. C. M.
Richards, D.D., Rev. Roswell C. Long. Besides this esteemed group of speakers, a splendid force of leaders and counselors has
been secured who will add greatly to the fruitful results of this conference.

Rats Win Inter-Class Championship By Defeating Juniors With Score 5-4
Game Played Saturday Goes Into Extra Inning After Hitting by Both Teams—Kiser Pitches Well

After walking and stealing second in the tenth inning, Kelly Woodham, captain of the Freshman team, dashed home on an
error of Allen’s crashing drive through second for the winning run of a 5-4 contest here Saturday with the Junior
class to decide the 1924 class baseball championship. The game was played on Richardson Field during an afternoon of intermittent
drizzles of rain. The Freshman team, after scoring four runs and allowing only three extra upperclassmen to face the pitcher
in the first five innings, weakened in the sixth, yielding three runs to as many hits and one error and
letting the Juniors tie the score at four-all. Jammed-up ball on both sides during the next three frames sent the
game into extra innings. The yearlings opened the scoring in the second when Joe McConnell went to first on errors,
to second on Sparrow’s sacrifice, and home on '25’s first sacker’s muffle of a high fly in close-right. Ben Hasty
came home on Morrison's hit-and-run play, after he had lined out a three-bagger into center. Allen drove into right-center in
the fourth and came to third on McConnell’s Texas leaguer in the same direction. Sparrow sent him home on a
grounder. In the fifth Kiser and Davis hit safely into left and center; the Juniors tightened for two outs, but
Allen sent Kiser across the plate on his Babe Ruth crashing grounder, and Davis trotted home when Joe Mc lifted
a neat one over the first baseman’s head. Then came the nearly fatal sixth, when Red Holshouser again started a
rally. Brice sent the ball into left, filling second and third, and Ben Hasty drove both in on his right
field fly and was given a run when Woodham threw wild to home. Woodham walked in the tenth and pilfered
second. Allen sent him dashing home on his errored grounder. McConnell, hitting safely for the third time, sent Allen to
third. But here Gracey showed more than track form, sprinting into short left and diving for a liner and rolling
over and sending the ball to second, where it was relayed to Morrison in time to cut off a run
at the plate. With one out and one run behind in the tenth, Hendrix was called from the bleachers and
pinch hitting for Gray, singled into center. Bobbie Glenn caught Jim at second with a peg from Templeton and the
Juniors went out after Thompson had walked and died on base. The Fresh team showed especial strength in the outfield
and Kiser was in good form, allowing only six hits. The upperclassmen were handicapped by the absence of several first-string
men.

Score by innings: R H E
Juniors 010 003 000 0— 4 6 5
Fresh 010 120 000 1— 5 10 3

Summary—Three-base hit: Hasty; sacrifices: Morrison, Sparrow (2); left on bases: Juniors 3, Fresh 7; bases on balls: off Holshouser 1,
off Kiser 1; umpire: Alford; time: 2:00.

CORRECTION
Due to an error the names of J. W. Anderson and C. C. McMillan were omitted from the report of
the State track meet. These men placed third in the javelin and broad jump, respectively, winning three points each.

(Continued on page 8)

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

HANGCHOW COLLEGE
(Continued from page 1)

start next fall. Warren leaves for China, August 12. This is the first time in several years that a Davidson
man has been called to take a place on the faculty of Hangchow Christian College, “the Davidson of China.” A
number of Davidson alumni have been connected with the college in the past as instructors. Davidson men are being asked
to pledge their money to the support of the college so that the scope of the school may be widened.
Many students have been turned away at the beginning of each term on account of inadequate equipment the past several
years. The canvass will be conducted on every floor of each dormitory Thursday evening, and each student is expected to
do his bit towards helping out with the great work.

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub.
Co. Quality Printers

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building
