THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

The Reel Stuff ©

SHE SACRIFICED ALL A WOMAN HOLDS DEAR

The Social Code
By RITA WEIMAN
Directed by OSCAR APFEL

THE CALL OF THE WILD, GAY WORLD OF BRIGHT LIGHTS, MOONSHINE AND MADNESS

It is always refreshing to see Viola Dana’s pictures, and this is especially true of her latest, “The Social Code,” which will be shown at the Gym, Saturday night, March 22nd. “The Social Code” is an adaptation of Rita Weiman’s “To Whom It May Concern,” which enjoyed wide popularity in print, but seems destined to find even greater success as a motion picture. It was adapted for the screen by Rex Taylor. The direction of Oscar Apfel adds more fame to this capable producer, who has brought out forcibly the highlights of the drama.

The story is built around the mystery of the murder of a notorious clubman and it holds spectators breathless with suspense. As a member of the Long Island society colony, Miss Dana enacts the role of a young girl who faces disgrace to protect her married sister. The role calls for a number of highly dramatic and emotional scenes, in each of which the charming little star acquits herself superbly. “The Social Code” is another genuine triumph for Miss Dana and will be hailed with delight by her many admirers.

LINGLE, FLEAGLE, GOLDIERE, BLYTHE REPRESENT COLLEGE

Davidson College was represented at the fortieth annual meeting of the North Carolina Educational Association at Raleigh, March 12-14, by Doctor Lingle, Professors Fleagle, Blythe, and Goldiere. Doctor Lingle, former president of the modern language section of the association, read a paper on French Composition before this section of the conference. Professor Fleagle read two papers, one before the Spanish section, which was entitled Conversational Spanish, and the other before the higher education section, entitled Should Methods of Instruction be More and More Applied to College Education? Professors Goldiere and Blythe attended the modern language section. There were a number of Davidson alumni at the meeting, among which were F. S. John, R. U. Woods, Z. A. Morris, and Bascomb Sorrells, all of the class of '23.

SIGMA UPSILON ELECTS SIX MEN

(Continued from page 1)

...literary effort and creation at Davidson and to reward those men who have contributed conspicuous service to the literary life of the campus. This includes work on the three publications, in the literary societies, on the debating platform, in dramatics, in the library, and in the classroom. It is customary that a certain percentage of the literary leaders of the rising Senior class be accepted in the Spring term, and that other men be received in a Fall election.

Dramatist Stage Trio Of Plays Junior Week

“The Ghost Story,” “The Real Mr. ‘Q,’” and “The Traitor,” Make up Trio

The Davidson College Dramatic Club, under the leadership of Ted Jones, and with the supervision of Prof. E. J. Erwin, has outlined plans for the spring that eclipse any previous effort of the organization. Arrangements have been made to bring the club before the student body during Junior Speaking in three one-act plays. The first of these, given by the Seniors of the club, will be The Ghost Story, one of Booth Tarkington’s best-known works. The Sophomores with The Real Mr. ‘Q,’ which recently appeared in Smart Set, will offer a play quite unusual and distinctive. The triad is rounded out by the Freshmen in Percival Wilde’s The Traitor. Speaking will find each group striving to pay the Juniors the highest honors.

The Dramatic Club, in a spring study course, will follow a plan devised by President Ted Jones. This course is to consist of two series of lectures and classes: the one, Stage Make-up, conducted by Prof. B. L. Dendy, to be undertaken first; the other, Stage Direction and Management, by Prof. E. J. Erwin, to follow in the period between Junior Speaking and Commencement. In Mr. Dendy’s classes in make-up, the detailed study of the building of various types and characters will be considered. In addition, practical experience will be obtained as it is planned to have the students practice on one another. The material for this has arrived and at a meeting Tuesday night the members of the club began work. The classes are held in Dr. Sentelle’s classroom at 8:30 on Tuesday and Friday nights. The number to take this course had to be limited to members and a few prospective members.

Prof. Erwin’s series of lectures will teach the management of amateur plays, the how and why of scenery and lighting, and the training of individual actors. The men will be taught the fundamentals of dramatic art in a way that will enable them to use this knowledge in training others. This, following the plans devised by Ted Jones, will not only serve to raise the...Standard of dramatics here at Davidson but will have a more enduring effect—that of preparing the student members to conduct amateur dramatics after leaving college. Numerous entertainments and pageants staged by civic organizations in every town. From the training received in the Davidson Dramatic Club, the members will be able to use these capacities to their own advantage and to the good of each community. Davidson College will prove herself a trainer of competent directors. Thus, in another way, Professor discussions of actors, of course, in need of leaders.

JUNIOR WEEK
(Continued from page 1)

The Glee Club will render much beautiful harmony. Saturday is a full day—every moment packed full of fun. In the morning will come the Inter-class Track Meet. The afternoon will be filled with the Promenade, Outdoor Festival, and the annual reception. Saturday night—!! This much can be said though: one will be transported (in transports of joy, of course) back to ancient Roman times. What one will hear, see, and feel will give him a new conception of Roman life in the days when Nero and Cicero and all those other toga-toters ran around loose. It has not yet been decided who will be the speaker at the “Y” Sunday evening, but every effort is being made to secure a fine one. Monday is uneventful except that at night there will be movies—and so forth. All in all, this Junior Speaking promises to be a record-breaker in every way. The committee in charge is expending every ounce of their collective energies to make it a stellar success, and the Junior class, to a man, is backing them in their efforts. But, as has often been observed, the measure of the success of a Speaking occasion lies in the number of girls on the Hill. So get busy and ask that girl; she’s the necessary ingredient for a big time. “When writing, mention Speaking!”

PAN HELLENIC SPONSORS HOUSE PARTIES
(Continued from page 1)

Two weeks remain in which to complete all preparations for the weekend. Every nook and corner in the halls will be in condition to receive the visiting girls and their hosts. Don’t let the opportunity slip. Grab it and get your line in shape for April 5th.

MIDNIGHT REVELS
(Continued from page 1)

Operation and teamwork for the next three months. A resolution was unanimously adopted pledging support as individuals, and as a class, to the class of 1925 in staging an unprecedented Junior Week. A report from the business manager of Quips and Cranks was followed by a vote of appreciation to D. J. Chipman, editor of the college yearbook, for his diligence and success in liquidating the debts left by preceding staffs, and for his efficient editorial policies this year. The special committee on suggestions for a Senior class gift reported, offering a number of appropriate suggestions. The banquet was a glowing success from the standpoint of practical discussions, business accomplishments, entertainment, enthusiasm, and spirit. The Davidson College Quartet, composed of four members of the Senior class: Watt McCain, George Dupuy, Ted Jones, and Liston Elkins, contributed materially to the entertainment. Watt McCain functioned as toastmaster in a manner which proclaims him as a past master of a ticklish art. He held the attendance of his banqueters till the midnight hour.

JIM HENDRIX ELECTED
(Continued from page 1)

Neither received the requisite majority, however, and a second ballot was necessary. On the run-over election, Pinkney won with quite a majority of the votes cast. Other nominees for the various student body offices were: Boggs, Briggs, and Beall, for president; Laird and Crayton, for vice-president; and Bohan-non and Murchison for secretary. McAllister, nominated by the council for the presidency, requested unanimous consent to withdraw his name from the ballot, and this permission was granted.

“What a whale of a difference it makes!”—all the difference between just an ordinary cigarette and—FATIMA, the most skillful blend in cigarette history.

An All-Purpose Truck At A Remarkable Price

The new Ford all-steel body and cab mounted on the famous Ford One-Ton Truck chassis provide a complete all-purpose haulage unit at the remarkably low price of $490. Built of heavy sheet steel, strongly reinforced, this staunch truck is designed to withstand severe usage in a wide range of industries. Generous loading space, four feet by seven feet two inches, permits easy handling of capacity loads and provision is also made for mounting of canopy top or screen sides. Experienced drivers appreciate the weather-proof features of the steel cab, which is fitted with removable door-opening curtains.

FORD
Detroit, Michigan
See the Nearest Authorized Ford Dealer