6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924

FIRST SPANISH DEBATE TO BE HELD AT DAVIDSON

On Friday evening, April 4th, Davidson College meets the University of North Carolina in a Spanish debate. This debate will
be held at Davidson, in Shearer Hall, and will be, according to Professor Fleagle, the only intercollegiate Spanish debate ever
held in the United States. In the preliminary debates held last Friday, R. F. Causey, J. B. Gallant, and A.
T. Rowe won over F. T. Franklin, J. A. Bouvier, W. F. Gallaway, and J. A. Thompson. The judges were
Professors Fleagle, Goldiere, and Blythe. The first three men will compose the team and will speak in the order named.
Each speaker will have 10 minutes for his debate and each team will have but one rebuttal of three minutes.
R. F. Causey, being the first speaker, will do the refuting for the home team. Three excellent judges have been
secured from Charlotte, Miss Anna McGeachy, Miss Helen Lauchlin, and Mr. Varola, of the Central High School. The debaters have
been working hard, and the work on the Davidsonian has been established.

Password and Watchword Keynote of “Y” Service

The vesper service of the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday was in charge of a group of seven men
from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond. These men were Messrs. Dwight Chalmers, ’21, also secretary of the local “Y” for one
year; D. P. McGeachy, ’22; John Luke, of Hampden-Sidney; A. J. McKelway, of Hampden-Sidney; Percy Buchanan, of Maryville; A. V.
Gibson, ’23, and Claude Pritchard, of V. P. I., and also president of the Virginia Volunteer Union. They displayed splendid
ability and their four selections added a great deal to the spirit of the service. Mr. Buchanan also sang an
inspiring solo, the words of which were taken from the twenty-seventh Psalm. Mr. Williams, “Y” secretary, in introducing the speakers,
told of the fine work they were doing in Union and that it was a privilege to have them come
to Davidson. He especially welcomed the old Davidson students who had come back home again.

Mr. Chalmers, better known to all the students as Dwight, was the first speaker. His topic was The Password of
the Kingdom. He based his remarks on Matthew 21:28-31, the parable of the two sons bidden of their father to
go into the vineyard and work. The first said he would not go, but later repented and went, while the
second said, “I go, sir,” and went not. “Several years ago,” said the speaker, “I was on guard duty at
Plattsburg, and orders were given to let no one pass without the proper password. If a spy had learned the
password he could easily have slipped in. So it is that God did not make the password of the kingdom
a mere word; He made it a life, a character, one’s works. ‘Not every one that saith unto me, Lord,
Lord, but he that doeth my will.’” Mr. Chalmers said that while everyone is willing to talk about religion and
the theory of it, there are far too few who are willing to put the theory into practice. “It is
the everyday life that counts, and we must keep step with Christ on the King’s highway.” “We know the will
of God,” said the speaker, “for we know Christ's principles on the questions of honesty, morality, and dealing with our
fellow men. If I were to give you a Hoffman’s head of Christ, could you hang it in your room
now or would some change have to be made? ‘If any man will to do His will, he shall know;
we know the will of God and it falls on us to practice it.” He ended his address with a
touching appeal to let God have full sway in the life and to be willing to do what God calls
on one to do.

After a selection by the quartet, Mr. Pritchard spoke, basing his talk on the passage where Paul says, “This one
thing I do—I press on.” “Since you have heard about the password of the kingdom,” said Mr. Pritchard, “I want
to talk about the watchword of the Christian. The watchword is ‘This one thing I do—I press on.’ There are
many of us who think we are pressing on when we are on the side-track instead of on the main-line.”
He said that we should press on, first of all, in our own lives, giving them over to the will
of God, and letting Him have His way. “If He wants us to be a Christian lawyer, doctor, business man,
preacher, and we do something else, we are not pressing on.” Mr. Pritchard went on to show how one should
also press on in his college life because there are so many things which need to be done that are
not done. There are always men who need help and men are often blind to their needs or else have
not the courage to try to help them. “Some of us,” he said, “because we think we will have to
give up something, are not willing to press on. We love to play with the things of the world and
yet call ourselves Christians, but there never was a worldly Christian, because a man must let either one or the
other go. We must get off the fence and be on one side or the other.” In closing, he said,
“We must ever remember to press on, forgetting the things that are behind and looking to the goal before us.”
The quartet then gave a final number and Dwight Chalmers closed the service with prayer.

Six Golden Quills Will Be Awarded to Reporters

At the last meeting of the Reporters’ Club, announcement was made that Golden Quills would be awarded to A. M.
Hurd, G. D. Rogers, C. F. Smith, W. E. Milton, A. Y. Bowie, and C. F. Monk. This is in
recognition of meritorious service in reporting for the Davidsonian. The fact that the number of wearers of the Golden Quill
is limited to seven students a year, excluding graduating Seniors during the second semester, points to the fact that it
is an honor worth striving for. The awarding of the quills will be made at Junior Speaking. The custom of
awarding Golden Quills to those reporters who are most outstanding in the work on the Davidsonian has been established at
Davidson for many years. To be eligible for election as a wearer of the Golden Quill, the reporter must be
a member of the football squad, 1.19. These averages were compiled from those of 36 men on the football squad,
16 on the wrestling, and 14 on the basketball.

WEEK-END PARTY PLANS

Only Seven Students Allowed to be Wearers During the Scholastic Year

(Continued from page 1)

The reception and midnight dinner will merge into each other after the show. All of the upper-classmen are looking forward
to seeing the members of the faculty and their wives at the reception and it is hoped that it will
be as generally attended as they have been in the past. Only ten days are left. If you haven't written
that girl this is the last opportunity to do so. And this is a time to enjoy yourself enough to
note it in that blank diary in so many memory books. The halls are yours for the week-end and ye
chapters are looking forward to making it an occasion to be remembered by everyone.

DR. RICHARDS SAYS TITHE IS MINIMUM IN GIVING

“If you give less than one-tenth you are making a failure in giving. Faith that God will do His part
is essential in tithing. If a man with his money will seek first the kingdom of God, then all these
things will be added unto him.”

LUXENBERG CLOTHES Talk No. 1

CLEAR REASONING

IF we had begun these talks when we started business in September of 1922, you would very naturally have said,
“Let them try them out first.” FROM the number of men we have clothed since then, you may be assured
that the “trying out” days are over. THE worth of LUXEN-Promises to be the scene of a real battle on
the night of April 4th. The Golden Quill is bestowed by this club to those selected as having proven themselves
most capable in writing and faithful in service. Service enters into consideration for this honor.

Matthew 6:33 was the text which Doctor Richards treated briefly but forcefully in his sermon: “Seek ye first the Kingdom
of God and these things shall be added unto you,” from H. L. Currie and D. B. Walthall of Professor
Fleagle.

ELEVEN STUDENTS (Continued from page 1)

The averages of the classes this year are:
- Senior: 87.82
- Junior: 85.40
- Sophomore: 79.82
- Freshmen: 75.05

It is interesting to note that the average made by the present senior class is the highest of the records
obtainable, with the class of '23 a close runner-up with 87.32. In 1885, a Junior Class made an average of
86.30, the highest known, and in 1884 the highest averages ever made by the Sophomore and Freshmen classes were made
in the same year, the average being 86.54 and 82.39, respectively. It will be noted that this was the year
when the highest student body average was made.

The students who made the Honor Roll consist of one M.A. student, five seniors, three juniors, one sophomore, and one
freshman. They are given as follows, according to averages:
- W. H. Sharpe: 98.20
- L. D. Elkins: 97.33
- W. F. Gallaway: 96.83
- D. B. Walthall: 96.66
- C. M. S. McIlwaine: 96.58
- H. B. Price: 95.50
- W. M. Heston: 95.33
- A. H. Hollingsworth: 95.20
- W. S. Woods: 95.14

In addition to these Honor Roll men, the averages of the ten highest men for the first term in each
class are given, along with the M.A. students’ averages:
- M.A.: W. H. Sharpe: 95.50, B. C. James: 94.63, W. S. Elkins: 92.20, J. R. Walker: 90.85, J. I.
Smith: 97.33, W. F. Gallaway: 96.66, A. M. Hillhouse: 95.33, D. B. Walthall: 95.14, P. D. Priest: 93.30, B. D.
Brown: 93.05, W. M. Cox, Jr.: 92.79, A. M. McBryde: 92.68
- Juniors: M. W. Trawick: 98.20, R. H. Littlejohn: 93.00, W. C. Ramsey: 92.68, L. C. Little: 92.57, A. S.
Crow: 92.36, H. B. Price: 92.30, T. C. McSwain: 91.40
- Sophomores: A. H. Hollingsworth: 94.95, B. U. Ratchford: 94.05, H. C. Lawson: 94.00, J. M. Appleby: 93.95, D. B.
Walthall: 93.57, E. P. O’Connor: 93.31, J. S. McNair: 92.50, J. S. Shaw: 92.42
- Freshmen: W. S. Woods: 92.00, W. A. Christian, Jr.: 91.40, D. H. G. Stewart: 91.36

The awarding of the Golden Quills was established by the Davidsonian in conjunction with the Reporters’ Club as a purely
local institution. It is singular in nature, there being no other similar award in any Southern college insofar as the
Davidsonian has been able to learn. Its purpose is primarily to further the standard of journalistic writing for the weekly
periodical. It is a step higher than the Reporters’ Club, being an additional honor to selection into this group. The
wearers of the Golden Quill at Davidson this year are W. H. Sharpe, Listan D. Elkins, W. F. Gallaway, D.
B. Walthall, Jr., C. M. S. McIlwaine, H. B. Price, and W. M. Heston.

In connection with raising the budget last Sunday, Doctor Richards showed how the call comes to professing Christians just as
those out of the kingdom. The call comes to the youth to devote his life to the kingdom and also
to the other people. “Seek ye first the kingdom of God with your money” was the emphatic application of his
sermon. Through prayer and study, Doctor Richards concluded that the tithe is the minimum in giving.

BERG CLOTHES has been proved by the thousands of repeat orders that pour in day by day. (No. 1 of
a series of talks with tips for men who dress well.) To take care of our growing trade, we have
been led to open branches at 177 Broadway, New York City, and 863 Broad Street, Newark, N.J. Home store, as
always, 841 Broadway, New York City. NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.

Merchandising | Advertising | Personnel

The recently elected men are representatives of the three upper classes. A. M. Hurd, a Senior, has served faithfully and
well while at Davidson. He has taken a great interest in the Davidson publications and is a member of Delta
Pi Kappa honorary fraternity and business manager of the Davidson College Magazine. Proof of his ability in work for the
Davidsonian is shown in his election to lead the Reporters’ Club through a successful year following the resignation of the
former president, D. B. Walthall, Jr.

G. D. Rogers, a Junior, came to Davidson last year from Johns-Hopkins University. Since coming to Davidson, he has been
deeply interested in Davidsonian work. C. F. Smith, W. E. Milton, A. Y. Bowie, and C. F. Monk are all
members of the class of ’26 who started reporting for the Davidsonian the first of their Freshman year. They, with
Rogers, were elected into membership in the Reporters’ Club last spring.

Fraternity averages were compiled. The enrollment of fraternities now is 112, which is almost 40 percent of the present student
body. Of these organizations, Pi Kappa Alpha led, with an average of 84.81. The averages follow:
- Pi Kappa Alpha: 84.81
- Kappa Phi: 84.32
- Sigma Alpha Epsilon: 84.03
- Pyramid Club: 83.47
- Phi Alpha Pi: 82.32
- Delta Theta Chi: 81.90
- Phi Gamma Delta: 81.61
- Beta Theta Pi: 80.53
- Kappa Alpha: 80.00
- Sigma Nu: 76.48

The general average of all social fraternities is 82.00. The average of the football, basketball, and wrestling squads follows:
- Wrestling: 81.11
- Football: 81.07
- Basketball: 79.81

The average of the basketball squad, which had but two games before examinations, is less than that of the other
two. The average of the wrestling team is 1.15 less than the general average of the student body, and that
of the football team is less than that of the other two.

The School of Retailing trains for executive positions in finance and control. Merchants are eager to secure trained men and
women in these fields. Classrooms and stores are linked closely together. Illustrated booklet on application. For further information, write to
Dr. Norris A. Briscoe, Director of New York University School of Retailing, 100 Washington Place, New York City.

CENTRAL Dyeing and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Largest and Oldest HAT SHOP in Charlotte
8 E. Trade St.

Williams keeps the skin in good condition. The way to get the finest shave is to use Williams Shaving Cream.
The Hinge-Cap is a sure way of identifying Williams Shaving Cream. Besides giving you the convenient Hinge-Cap, Williams will improve
your shave in three ways: First, the lather is heavier and holds the moisture in against the beard, resulting in
quicker and more thorough softening of the beard. Second, the razor glides more easily through the Williams-softened beard because Williams
lather lubricates the skin. Lastly, an ingredient in Williams keeps the skin in good condition, no matter how heavy your
beard nor how frequently you shave. In addition, you'll enjoy Williams because it is a pure, natural white cream without
coloring matter of any kind.

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
