THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

Reporter Renders Completed Returns of Carolina Game

Eleven ripping, snarling, charging Wildcats fought with their backs to the wall last Saturday, valiantly defending their goal-line from the attacks of a veritable onslaught of weight. It was a great game, and an event long to be remembered. The two field goals booted through the goal-posts by Hackney, Carolina’s superkicker, in the last few minutes of the hitherto scoreless battle, won for Carolina a game that brought glory to both teams. Carolina fought hard, and won! But, the battle was not a one-sided affair in any way. It was a wonderful exhibition of football, and Davidson was defeated, but the Wildcats died game, literally “going down with their boots on,” fighting desperately to the last. Carolina has a great team, and there are few in the South that will find themselves able to beat the Blue and White eleven at straight football. With a sufficiently heavy line, and a speedy backfield, Carolina has a team that is bringing glory to the University it represents. The Carolina players were in there all the time, fighting just as hard as the Wildcats, and their fine playing was rewarded in the last few minutes of the fatal last quarter.

It was a colorful crowd that witnessed the encounter, and they found the game fully as good as they could have expected. The 5,500 seats in the stands were filled to overflowing, and the sidelines were crowded with supporters of both elevens. Every available nook and corner was occupied. R. O. T. C. guards, ushers, and the Charlotte policemen who were on hand for the fray were kept busy guarding the sidelines, and keeping the surging mass of people from crowding onto the field. The spectators were unusually orderly, and only once did the game have to be delayed until the crowds were forced back into the stands. That came in the fourth quarter when Carolina was making the remarkable charge into Davidson's territory, that brought her victory. The supporters of the Carolina team, as well as those of the Davidson squad, had watched the game with breathless attention for three long quarters, and the strain was just too great. It was a nerve-racking affair. There, the Blue and White gridiron stars were gaining ground, and the Davidson line and secondary defense were fighting with extraordinary fury. It was too much! The fans could hold themselves no longer, and in a frenzy of excitement they rushed onto the far end of the field, in an effort to see more of the thrilling rally. Only a few seconds were lost, however, since the crowds readily resumed their seats.

The new scoreboard, designed by Kuykendall, was a welcomed addition to Richardson Field. Offering to the fans the opportunity of taking in all the details of the game at a glance, was a big asset. The board will probably be a permanent affair from now on, and it certainly should be. It is one of the most complete of its kind in the South, and gives the exact details during every second of the game. The spectators found it a great aid in following the intricate plays and positions during the game.

Davidson alumni back for Homecoming Day, found the campus full of welcome. The old grads were here in large numbers, renewing their acquaintances, and making new friends. They had hoped to see Davidson add another victory to her long list of successful battles, but they couldn’t have been disappointed in the showing the Wildcats made. The band, under the able leadership of Band-director Lacock, of Fort Bragg, made an excellent showing. Their playing before and during the game was greatly appreciated by the crowds, and added zest to the occasion. Their drills during the intermission of the game were vigorously applauded by both Carolina and Davidson followers. And the Wildcat was there with his colors on! In a wire-cage, decorated profusely in Davidson colors, he occupied a place of prominence on the Davidson side of the field, and his presence attracted no little attention. “Simp” Bryant and his assistants, leading the students in numerous yells, were full of pep; and the impression made by the Davidson rooters was remarkable. Numerous commendations were made in the newspapers of the state for the fine sportsmanship shown by the Davidson stands. Bailey Groome, of the Charlotte Observer, carried in his special column in the Sunday Observer a letter from D. B. Smith, a former student at Carolina; and the letter was full of praise for Davidson’s sportsmanship. He commended the courteous, cordial, and sportsmanlike treatment of the Carolina team by the Davidson rooters.

Threatening clouds, that had loomed on the horizon for several days, were caught in a stiff breeze just a few hours before the great conflict; and for an hour or more it seemed certain that old Jupiter Pluvius was ready to step in and interfere with the plans for the afternoon. But, the thousands of fans who had gathered from all sections of the state to witness the game didn't allow the dismal skies to dampen their ardor, and they poured through the turnstiles and into the stands by hundreds. A few minutes before the game Old Sol blinked once or twice from behind the heavy clouds, and with a flurry of rays drove the clouds away, scattering them in all directions. With the disappearance of the rain-laden clouds, the afternoon turned out to be a fine one for football. A cool, brisk wind, singing through the pines on the eastern border of the field, came whistling down across the stands, sending the blood tingling to the cheeks of the spectators. It was just cool enough to make the players move about with pep and vigor, and not too hot for the followers of the two teams to yell and spring about to their hearts’ content.

Carolina's coaches, Bob and Bill Fetzer, both of them Davidson graduates and former Wildcat athletes, were accorded a signal recognition by the Davidson students, when they offered a clear, penetrating yell for the two famous sons of Davidson.

Bee Reese

“Fire,” in abundance, was present in both the Carolina and Davidson stands, and during the time between halves, the students took advantage of the opportunity to feast their eyes on the smiling countenances of the damsels in our fair Southland.

Fraternity Guests

The weekend of November 15th found one of the largest and most enjoyable crowds ever known to have been on our campus at any one time. All the fraternities excepting one or two had house parties. Many girls from far and wide came and joined in to make this a lively spot, overbubbling with enthusiasm and pep. The guests were as follows:

Beta Theta Pi

Misses Mary Johnson, Elizabeth Anderson, Elizabeth Simpson, Isabel DePasse, L. Jesse James, and Susie Simpson, Converse; Alice Barbee and Mary Myatt, High Point; Lillian Thompson, Trinity; Margaret Elliott, Columbia, S. C.; Sarah Walla, Trinity; Mary Ocland, Spartanburg, S. C.; Alice Isabel Millings and Mary Poe, Rock Hill, S. C.; and Lou Anderson, Gastonia.

Kappa Alpha

Misses Wearn, Charlotte; Nancy Hill and Mrs. Greenville, S. C.

Kappa Sigma

Misses Hannah Gily, Fayetteville; Laura Underwood, Saxapaw Hall, Neb.; “Pud” Bay, Monroe;Martha Mesaline, Winston-Salem; Alice Dunklee, Winston-Salem; Lila Hinkle, Statesville; Mildred Little, Susie Brand, and Elizabeth Battle, Greensboro; Mary Wilkens, Dallas; Mary Evans, Fayetteville; Milicent Blanton, Shelby; Mary Nelson, Lenore; Laura Tillet, Charlotte; Elizabeth Jones, Hickory; Mary Andrews, Bainbridge, Ga.; Margaret Copeland, Kinston; and Adelaide Douglas, Washington, D.C.

Pi Kappa Phi
Misses Lillian Gohlson, N.C.C.W.; Fannie Anderson, Marian Rankin, Con- most beautiful young Buchanan, Charlotte; Catherine Gregory, G.C.W.; Misses Lois Rogers, U.N.C.; “Nig” Homer Obvig, New York, N.Y.; Margaret Babb, Isabel Pharr, Elizabeth Mather, Nell Mash, Sara Carson and May Orr, Charlotte; and Mamie Merton, Ruth Califf, Winthrop; Irma Jeffries, Gaffney, S.C.; Rose Williams and Frances Williams, Lancaster, S.C.; Margaret Pennington, Mildred Southerland, Statesville; Louise Stevens and “Scotty” Johnson, Charlotte; “Pinky” Boyd, U.N.C.; and Ellee Hardeman, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Miss Virginia Dunklee and Elizabeth Wilkinson, Winston-Salem; and Mildred Henderson, Charlotte.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Dorothy Besine, Nina Shaddack, Ann Willingham, Mary Laura Hart, Marian Clark, and Lou Estemay- uard, Converse; Emmileve Gimlan, Shelby; Kathleen Clark, Hendersonville; Roberta Fowler, Winthrop; Katy Norwood, Salisbury; Christine McCrary, Salem College; Adelaide McAlister and Blitz Dillard, Winston-Salem.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Misses Rebecca Fitzhugh, Rome, Ga.; Evelyn Martin, Florence, Ala.; Katie Bess Anderson, Charlotte; Noel Walker, Charlotte; Elizabeth Causey, Greensboro; Kathleen Brown, Florence, Ala.; Mary Anderson, Charlotte; Mildred Biggers, Charlotte; and Mrs. Allison, Winston-Salem.

Delta Theta Chi
Misses Annie McCorkle and Constance Gwartery, N.C.C.W.; Winifred Pegram, Nonie Withers and Craigy Pegram, Charlotte; Sara Wilson, Marion; Melba Johnson, Greenville, S.C.; Eleanor Miller, Mallie Code, and Mary Miller, Winthrop; and Catherine Cooper, Taylorsville.

Druid Club
Misses Nancy Munroe, Annie Hammiter, Laura Frances Steele, Annie Moore, Ora Quaid Watts, Queens College; Elizabeth Laird, Davidson; Katherine Rogers, Mooresville; and Frances Brandis, N.C.C.W.; and Leila Hubbard.

Pyramids
Misses Anita Wharton, Byrd Ducksworth, Pete Reid and Lillian Rogers, Queens; Irene Bostick, Atlanta, Ga.; Ann Fraley, Taylorsville; Marie Fletcher, Marguerite McDonald, and Louise Garibaldi, Charlotte; and Rachel West, Greensboro.

Through the Keyhole
The author of the following play bribed us to publish this child of his intellect. For obvious reasons his name is omitted. To best appreciate this radical play, one should read it through red spectacles.

TESSIE TRIUMPHANT or WHY THE COFFEE BOILED OVER
(A tragi-comedy in several acts). Apologies to Ring Lardner and P.T. Barnum.

DRAMATIS PERSONAE
Eppie Leptic—Fitting name of the fighting heroine.
Count DeMeritz—Who was killed in the war.
Le—Comptess Lu de Kruss—Lover and later wife of Captain John Smith.
Belinda of Uruguay—The mystery woman.
Baron De Bauche—The cat’s ankle from Tayngoraneno, Mo.
Abraham Levi Cohen—A Jew.
Two bells, a whistle, and six hands.

ACT V
(I, II, III, and IV took place in 1908).

Scene I
(Eppie and DeMeritz enter from right-hand window.)
DeMeritz—"Sh! Sh!"
Eppie—"No, no, not that!"
(Enter a flock of fairies, singing).
No, no, no not that;
No, no, no not that;
Look at the man
In the high silk hat;
Laugh, laugh all you can,
’Cause it ain't my fault.
Et cetera! Et cetera!
(Bell sounds).
Eppie—"Hark, the telephone!"
(Exit all).

Scene II
(The rear room of the barber shop).
Count DeMeritz (addressing the bootleggers’ convention)—"Friends and fellow radicals, I come before you today—"
1st Red (interrupting)—“Gentlemen, he's a liar!”
2nd to 13th Red (inclusive)—“What! Liar!”
Count DeMeritz (spitting on the floor)—“If this be treason, sick distemper tarantula!”
(Enter Lu de Kruss, attired in a yellow slicker and holding a dill pickle in each hand).
Lu de Kruss—“There’s something in the air!”

ACT VI
(Censored)

INTERMISSION
Aesthetic dance by Fatima Cheroot.

ACT VII

Scene I
(A muddy path in Davidson; enter six jolly college boys).
Slush, slush, slush!
(Exit six disgruntled college boys),
Slush, slush, slush!
(Their curses resound in the distance).

Scene II
(Reading room of the library).
El Capitan Gauche—"May I dance?"
The Sicilian Woman—"No!"
(Exit.)
(Pistol shot heard from bushes).

Scene III
(See Act VI).

Scene IV
(Enter Lu de Kruss, followed by Ludwig driving a wheelbarrow).
Lu de Kruss—“The woman pays! The man goes free, but the woman pays! Oh, for a mother’s sympathetic ear in which to pour my grief! Would that Neptune had me gathered in his arms! (Sees Ludwig meditating softly). You! You! You!”
Ludwig (taking a swig from his jug and calmly crossing his eyes)—“Well? What of it?”
(Lu de Kruss faints and flops; Ludwig puts her in the wheelbarrow and drives off stage singing “That Good Old Ship of Zion.”)

TEMPUS FUGITS

ACT VIII
(Frat hall of Beta Upsilon Lambda Lambda; fire in the fireplace, fire on the divan).
(Enter man with a haircut).
Fire—“Luther!”
Man—“Luella!”
(He leads with a half-Nelson; she reciprocates with a right to the mouth).
(Enter gang.)
Gang (singing):
“College ties can ne’er be broken
Formed by you and she,
Far surpassing foolish flappers,
The joke’s on you, you see.”

ACT IX
(Ensemble of all characters, stage hands, and several others).
All (singing):
“Happy Yuletide to you,
Happy Yuletide to you,
Happy Yuletide, dear people,
Happy Yuletide to you!”

Rideau (sheet-iron).

Local Body Represented By Active Deputations
Last Sunday four deputations were sent out by the Ministerial Band. The men on these deputations spoke at seven meetings, and at five different churches. Hayden Hollingsworth, Yancey Bowie, Glenn Eddington, and Joe Garrison supplied the pulpit of the Presbyterian Church at Kannapolis for Rev. Mr. Jamison. At the morning service Bowie and Hollingsworth spoke, while Garrison and Hollingsworth took charge of the evening service. All four spoke at the meeting of the young people in the afternoon. The meeting of the Christian Endeavor Society was combined with the evening service.

W. G. Thomas, who preached at Barium Springs, reports a splendid deputation. He states that the new pastor of the church at Barium is expected on the last Sunday in November. Fred Hopkins and J. M. Murchison preached at the morning and evening services at Concord Tredell Church, at Loray, N.C., and in the afternoon went out to Fifth Creek where they again spoke. The service at Shearer Chapel was held by Burns Gibbs. The Ministerial Band is supplying this pulpit twice a month in the absence of the pastor, who divides his time between two churches. Joe Garrison, chairman of the deputations, reports good success with deputations so far this year, and states that he expects this to be a banner year in this branch of the work.

A not impossible development is that the Carolina team will be the champions of the state. Should State win out over Wake Forest, and though doped not to do this they will if they play as in the third quarter in Pinehurst, Carolina will automatically become State champs. With victories over three of the “big five” and a one-point defeat by Wake Forest, Coach Feezer’s men would then rank ahead of the Baptists with their two victories and one defeat.