2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

ONA ALL-STATE FIGHTING BAKER ELEVEN AND VANCE

This is the first time in several weeks that Central Cafeteria:

“On the Square” Best Place to Eat Good Orchestra Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry | Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits In the better fabrics $40

It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.

The TATE-BROWN CO.

Wildcat Trackmen Start for Cross-Country Run

“Big Five” Colleges of North Carolina Meet at Wake Forest Saturday

For the first time in the history of North Carolina the “Big Five” will meet Saturday, December 6th, in a cross-country meet. After many years of work in this direction, interest has arisen to the point where each of the colleges has agreed to send five of its best men to Wake Forest to represent it in a long-distance race on nature’s own track. The time trials to decide which five men should represent Davidson were held Tuesday, December 2nd, and at that time forthcoming results were entirely satisfactory to all interested.

Davidson’s cross-country track has been the stretch of road lying toward Dr. Grey's farm, and it is here that through the long fall months the little squad of aspirants have faithfully worked. With practically nothing as a reward for their labor, the squad has trained and worked and now the time draws near when it is hoped that they will reap the harvest of their long labors. The only team which should offer any serious opposition is Carolina. If results are to be judged from reports coming from enemy camps, Davidson should, at the very least, be perched in second place since no runner representing Trinity, Wake Forest, or State seems in the habit of performing the three miles in 16:40, as are the Davidson runners. Williford seems, at present, to be the mainstay of the Red and Black team, and in Gudger, Webb, and Stigler, he is ably backed, all in all, presenting a formidable array of runners. Should Davidson’s score not be as high as is hoped, still the time will not have been spent in vain, for when spring rolls around and our track season begins in earnest, there will be men already fitted for the distance races. It is by fall practice that such colleges as Washington and Lee, and Mississippi A. & M. boast of such track teams as they have had in years past. The squad deserves credit for its work and it is going after that credit full force Saturday, December 6th, at Wake Forest.

Bo McMillan is responsible for this: He said he went to work one day this past summer, and things in the office were acting mighty queer. He said that the pencils were making pointed remarks about the sponge being soaked all day and the wastebasket being full. At the same time the scissors were cutting up, although the paperweight was trying to hold them down. The pen scratched the face of the paper and was hung on the pen rack. The ink was well, thought it appeared to be blue. Bill was stuck on the file, and the calendar was looking fresh after having a month off. The blotter was lying around taking it all in, but the safe had closed and was not letting anything out.

HOW DAVIDSON BACKS GAINED IN 1924

Hendrix: 484
Sappenfield: 397
Sapp: 395
Black: 346
Wiel: 213
Meg: 182
Covington: 20
McComb: 11
Hewlett: 8

Spalding: Reach “Equipment for Every Sport” Wright & Ditson Goldsmith Goods Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. East Trade

The Last Whistle By Don Wharton

Few if any of the Davidson supporters who went wild in the fourth quarter as Hendrix scored the winning touchdown realized the significance of that play. Not only did it, with Laird’s field goals, bring to Davidson the first victory over the Methodist eleven, but it also placed the Wildcat squad in third place among the North Carolina football teams.

However, this is even more record-breaking in that for the first time in the entire athletic history of Davidson, a Red and Black team has won as many as seven football games in one season. Back in those oft-remembered days of 1917, a Davidson team won six straight grid clashes, but never before had seven games been chalked up as wins for Davidson. Also, it marks the first Thanksgiving victory for a Davidson team since that same memorable year when Davidson scored three touchdowns to win 21-9 over Clemson.

Much time has been spent around Davidson looking over the various all-state selections of the North Carolina dailies. Tom Baker was placed on the first all-state team of each of the four morning dailies of the four largest cities of North Carolina, while Vance was prominently mentioned for guard. The News and Observer, of Raleigh, the largest paper in the state, placed Baker and Hendrix on the first team, with Sappenfield and Bohannon on the second team. The sporting editor of the Greensboro News, in placing Baker and Vance on the first team and Hendrix as a reserve back of the same team, said Thursday night: “Hendrix is weak on defense, but undoubtedly the greatest offensive back in the state. I would like to place him on the first team.” Sappenfield and Black were on his second team. The Winston-Salem Journal placed Baker and Davis on the first team with Laird, Sappenfield...and Hendrix on the second. Bohannon, Boggs, Vance, and Black were all given honorable mention by this paper. The Charlotte Observer pick had Baker on the first eleven, with Sappenfield, Davis, and McConnell on the second. The Charlotte News picked only one team, Vance getting left guard on this eleven. The work of Coaches Younger and Tilson is plainly seen when it is remembered that last year Captain Faison was the only man on the Davidson team to rank as all-state. The News and Observer, in picking Hendrix on the first-string backfield, said: “It is an easy matter as far as the backfield is concerned,” and later said that Matthews and Baker were a “pair of tackles that made life miserable for the opposing backs.” Football is soon to fade into the past only to simmer for a while as spring practice comes and then to blaze forth again next fall. All in all, the 1924 season has been a great success and, with almost the entire team returning, the 1925 season promises even more. Ernest Sampson, who has officiated for over 15 years for Davidson, and who worked several times this year, the Trinity game being the last, said Thanksgiving night: “Of all the men on your team, I admire one man the most. He is always in the game, fighting hard and not doing much talking. That man is Davis.”

With the approach of the basketball season, the loss of Nappy is more and more apparent. His place on the quint will be as hard to fill as left end will be next fall. With three of last year’s regulars besides several other lettermen and Hewlette and Anderson from last year’s Fresh squad, a formidable basketball five will be seen fighting for Davidson this coming month.

Fresh Basketball Starts As Great Squad Reports
Coach Rawson Begins Intensive Training—Monogan Working on Good Trip

Football was ushered out on Turkey Day and the minds of sport enthusiasts turn to basketball. Although football will be talked about all year, basketball is the next sport in line. Coach Rawson has turned his football Yearlings loose and he is now beginning the task of building up a basketball team out of the Freshman candidates. He has issued his call and around 40 men have responded. Judging from the impression the Freshmen made in the class series, there is no promising material for a team, but when they are systematically handled, they will most likely look like a different bunch of boys. The men are quite a bit enthused over basketball and are coming out every day and working hard. However, there is quite a bunch of good basketball men in the Fresh football squad. They will be put through preliminary training for a while before hard work is begun and then they will be thinned out until the squad is small enough to be handled. The men will go through more strenuous training when the size of the squad permits. The men who are out show some ability in basketball but it will take much coaching to get them together. There are several men here who were on teams that were out for State High School honors, one from the Reidsville championship team. There are others from various high schools in the state. The Freshmen have a heavy schedule for this season. They will probably take a four-day trip, taking on Oak Ridge, Trinity Fresh, Carolina Fresh, and N. C. State Fresh. The home games will be with several high school teams, including Charlotte, Greensboro, and Mooresville. Other possible home games are with Mars Hill College, Carolina Fresh, and Trinity or State Fresh. Other games are on file and the full schedule has not been announced yet. The Wildkittens had one of the best Freshman teams in the state last year and are hoping to have as good this time. With the boys working hard and Coach Rawson putting them up to new tricks, the basketball team is likely to have as great a success as that of the football team.

TWO DEPUTATIONS SENT FROM DAVIDSON SUNDAY

Only two deputations were sent out from Davidson on last Sunday. One of these represented the Ministerial Band, and the other the Christian Endeavor Training Class.

HOW WILDCATS SCORED IN 1924

| Player | Touchdowns | Field Goals | Try Points | Total Points |
|--------|--------------|-------------|------------|--------------|
| Hendrix | 5 | 0 | 0 | 30 |
| Black | 4 | 0 | 6 | 30 |
| Covington | 2 | 0 | 0 | 12 |
| Wells | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Sappenfield | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Boggs | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Hewlett | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Bohannon | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Sand | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Intense | 0 | 1 | 4 | 7 |
| Evbiel | 0 | 1 | 4 | 7 |
| Total | 222 | 17 | 2 | 14 | 122 |

*Warner (P. C.) and Byrd (Elon) scored safety each, bringing Davidson’s total to 126.

The Ministerial Band has not sent out at least two deputations, but the chairman of the committee in charge of this work states that he expects to send out several more before the Christmas holidays begin. McRae was the representative of the Ministerial Band at Shearer Chapel, where he spoke. The Ministerial Band has been supplying the pulpit at Shearer twice a month for some time. The Christian Endeavor Training Class sent R. A. Duke and Walter Lynch to the Presbyterian Church at Cornelius, to speak at the meeting of the Senior Christian Endeavor Society. The topic for the meeting was Prayer. Both speakers gave talks on this topic. The society at Cornelius is small, but is doing a great deal for the young people of the community.

ASTHMA
There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated vapors of—

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description — “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga, Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.