THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

I can furnish you with complete Radio Sets and Parts. Radiola and other Reliable Sets. Complete outfits installed on short
notice. Work guaranteed. $29.50 to $500.00.
F. J. BENDER
E. CENTER AVE.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

“Nothing’s too good for my boy!” What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything
college men wear-- real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring,
English and American fabrics-- coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats -- rainproof. Soft hats,
caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate.
MELLON’S

S. & W. CAFETERIAS
Good Home Cooking and Courteous Service Is Our Specialty
Charlotte
Winston-Salem
Asheville and Greenville, S. C.

TUXEDOS - FULL DRESS SUITS — FOR RENT — Masquerade Costumes - Party Favors - Novelties - State your wants.
Mail orders given prompt attention.
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
9 E. Fifth St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

Town News

Mrs. Hillhouse, the mother of Albert Hillhouse, spent the weekend on the hill visiting her son. While on the hill
she was a guest of Dr. and Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle.

Mrs. J. M. Douglas, who has been visiting her uncle in Red Springs, who has been seriously ill, returned last
Wednesday.

Mrs. J. F. MacConnell was called to Baltimore by the death of her mother, Mrs. Doyle. Mrs. Doyle has been
a visitor in Davidson, and her many friends extend their deepest sympathy to Mrs. MacConnell in her bereavement.

Miss Mary Black is visiting her brother, Mr. Jack Black, and his wife, in Greenville.

Dr. and Mrs. Sloop and children were guests at the homes of Dr. Martin and Prof. A. Currie while in
Davidson.

Mrs. W. R. Grey, Miss Elizabeth, and Dick Grey motored to Hendersonville last weekend where they visited Mr. Chas. Grey
and family.

The Rummage Sale and Tag Day for the Civic Leagues proved to be a very good success. The Rummage Sale
will continue through this week.

Miss May Ellinwood leaves the first week in May for New York. She will be the guest of her sister
Mrs. Woolsey for a few weeks before going to her home in Cornwall, Conn.

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle attended the Pi Kappa Alpha Convention in St. Louis last week.

Mrs. Ellis entertained the Young Matrons Club last Friday afternoon. The guests of the occasion were their husbands. A salad
and ice course was served as refreshments.

The Woman’s Auxiliary will give a pageant this week. Huntersville, Troutman, Cooleemee, and Davidson troops were represented. On account of
the rain, the meeting was held in the Civic League Hall. The Court of Award and Troop Committee were present
at the meeting. Daisy Caldwell won the prize for the most points for the last two months’ work. Tenderfoot, Second
Class, Home Nurse, Laundress, Health Winner, Hostess, Child Nurse, Needle Woman, Dress Makers, Scribe, Athlete, Dancers, Musician, Bee Keepers’ badges
were awarded.

After the presentation of merit badges by Capt. Johnsie Shelton, stunts, games, and songs were enjoyed. “The Bluebirds” presented the
best stunt. Miss Kate Ranson, of Huntersville, gave a reception. After this, a picnic supper was enjoyed by all.

OLD DAVIDSON STAFF TO BE FED BY NEOPHYTES

At a meeting of the Davidsonian staff, held last Monday evening, the new staff voted to give the retiring staff
a feed sometime after May 5th. G. D. Rodgers was elected chairman of the committee in charge and G. F.
Monk and C. F. Smith were also put on the committee. The feed will take place sometime about the beginning
of next week and will be held in the Pi Kappa Alpha Hall. This will probably be the last meeting
of the old staff in any capacity.

SPANISH CLUB INITIATES SEVERAL NEW MEMBERS

The Spanish Club at its recent meeting, on Tuesday, April 22nd, initiated the following men into membership: W. E. Milton,
J. L. Hall, S. S. McNair, P. F. Causey, and T. T. Jones. As a part of the initiation, each
man had to give a short speech in Spanish. Professor Fleagle also read a paper as part of the program.
The club decided to meet the expenses of the recent Spanish debate by canvassing the different Spanish classes. The next
regular meeting will be held on

TOWN OF DAVIDSON WILL HAVE MANY IMPROVEMENTS

By September of this year, if all improvements planned for the town of Davidson are completed, it will no longer
be a place of mud, but a small, clean city. All of its streets will be hard-surfaced. Water and sewer
lines have been laid and as soon as wells can be dug they will be put into use.

A Girl Scout Rally was held at Davidson, Saturday, April 26th at four o’clock.

OPENS TONIGHT!
STEWART PARK SWIMMING POOL AND SKATING RINK
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
COME AND BRING YOUR FRIENDS
“DAVIDSON MEN WELCOME”The town having a separate system will insure the college an adequate supply at all times. The pavement
of Depot Street is now under construction and will be completed in the near future. When this street is finished,
the work of widening Main Street will be started. Main Street will be widened six feet on each side except
in the business district where it will be widened 12 feet on each side. This will make it 42 feet
in width. Curbing, gutters, and storm-sewers will be placed on each side.

ATTENDANCE UNUSUALLY GOOD AT SUNDAY SCHOOL

Last Sunday the attendance at all the rural Sunday Schools was exceptionally good. A large number of Davidson students preach
and teach somewhere in this section each Sunday. The reports for the Sunday Schools attended are as follows: Cornelius, 60;
Shearer, 30; Convict Camp, 60; Mill Chapel, 32. At Cornelius, the men attending were Eddington, Lyerly, and Wade Allison. The
attendance here was somewhat below the average. A very spirited contest has just closed and the winning class was given
a weiner roast by the losers. Last Sunday six Bibles were presented for reciting the Shorter Catechism, four of which
were given to members of Wade Allison’s class. Harry Price made the talk at the Convict Camp. Interest seems to
be increasing there. Others that were with Harry were Lee McClain, Woods, Houck, Fenton, and Moffett.

South Street, also known as Academy Street, will be hard surfaced. Depot Street is being paved with bithulithic and concrete.
The county has given assurance that it will improve Concord Street and also improve Concord Street extension, connecting it with
the new road that runs from Cornelius to Concord. The connecting of Concord Street with this road ought to be
of great value to Davidson merchants. Sidewalks will be laid on South Street to meet the demands of the people
who live on that street. When these improvements are completed Davidson will no longer be a town but a small
city.

Gibbs, Crinckly, Simms, McAlpine, Franklin, and Ray went to Shearer. The pulpit there is being filled by a member of
the Ministerial Band each Sunday. The regular pastor, Mr. Barnes, has been called to another field, and until another is
secured the pulpit will be filled by a Davidson man each Sunday. This summer the pulpit will be filled by
Wilson Moore, of the class of ’22, who is now at Union Seminary. The Christian Endeavor meeting was led by
Gibbs, Franklin, and Simms. The program was more varied than usual and a larger attendance was also noticed. Purdy and
Yeargin went to Mill Chapel.

Get one before you leave school: “The LIFE OF WOODROW WILSON” By Josephus Daniels See J. D. Laws, 204 Watts

“Since 1868 The Home of Good Shoes” For Men - Footwear that is Stylish, Serviceable, Comfortable Complete Stocks For Young
Men GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE

DOCTOR GREENE SPEAKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND

Success was the subject used by Dr. J. B. Greene, Professor of Theology at Columbia Seminary, in his address before
the Ministerial Band. In introducing his subject, the speaker brought out the fact that all men in all walks of
life desire success, and success of the right kind is a worthy goal for a man in his life career.

“The four fundamentals of success, qualities with the application of which any man may achieve success, are attention, continuation, concentration,
and consecration.

“A man to be successful must be attentive to his work. As students, your immediate work is preparation for your
great life-work, and to be successful you must give diligent attention to your preparation.”

The second characteristic of a successful man is continuation. Here the speaker cited instances in which the power of continuance
was portrayed, and that continuance accounted in a large measure for the success of the person involved.

“Concentration is absolutely essential for success. Concentrate on the job in hand if you would make a success of the
work. Determine your course in life and concentrate on it.

“The final element of success, and one which in a way sums up the other characteristics, is consecration. This progressive
age constantly discovers a better way of doing things—always improves—develops processes that excel. Our tailors at Fashion Park, for instance,
have developed the Turole tailoring treatment—a method of making ‘soft’ clothing possessing all the fine lines that well-groomed men demand.

EFIRD'S

There’s Always a Better Way of Doing Things

Turole is pliant—has easy, comfortable lines—conforms to the wearer’s action or inaction—is thoroughly distinguished. The Turole tailoring treatment is available
in a series of interesting style developments—we’re making a special exhibit of them now.
