THE DAVIDSONIAN. MAY 8, 1924 ALUMNI NEWS

Here and There

S. C. CLUB
The South Carolina Club plans to hold

NOTATIONS

At the Seminary
Among those graduating from the Union Theological Seminary this May are 18 former Davidson students. There are 34 men who are finishing this year and Davidson's representation among this number speaks well for the college. The man who was chosen to lead the class this year, W. C. Smith, is a Davidson alumnus of the class of 1920. Other of his classmates who graduate are: Roy Rochester Craig, Daniel Ralph Freeman, Hugh Cunningham Hamilton, Wade Hillman Harrel, Robert Todd Lapsley Liston, Kenneth Benson McCutchen, Charles Augustus McGirt, David Worth Roberts, William Clifford Smith, and Thomas Hugh Spence. Edward Owings Guerrant Lilly, winner of the Charles D. Larus Fellow scholarship, and Edgar Archibald Woods are the representatives of the class of 1919. Other representatives from Davidson are as follows: John Russell Woods, winner of the Moses D. Hodge Fellow scholarship, 1918, Flynn Vincent Long, Stafford Morrison Query, and Lewis Bevens Schenck come from the class of 1921 while Joseph Bingham Mack is the sole graduate hailing from the class of 1916. These 18 men are just another link in Davidson’s reputation as a producer of fine men devoting their life to Christ.

C. J. Matthews, class of ’19, is making an excellent record as a salesman in connection with the Addressograph Company of Orlando, Fla. In a recent nationwide contest of that company, he led his district in sales and won second place in the national race. During this contest, his record-breaking sales amounted to 47 machines in the five weeks which the contest lasted. He made a record of 470 percent during this period. A reward accompanies this service.

Dr. A. Bruce Curry, class of ’07, professor of English Bible in the Biblical Seminary at New York, recently delivered a series of lectures in Bible study to the upper-class students of Winthrop College. While at Winthrop he was also the chief speaker before the Y. W. C. A.

1906—J. W. Moore is at Louisville, Ky. Dr. Curry is remembered here at Davidson for the very interesting lectures which he has delivered here in the past.

We notice from a recent issue of a Miami paper the engagement of Mr. Russell Moore, class of ‘20, to Miss Thelma Donavan, of that city. Miss Donavan is a graduate of Notre Dame. Mr. Moore, after graduating from Davidson, accepted a position with the Miami branch of Armour and Company, where he holds an excellent position.

Dr. Taliaferro Thompson, ’05, in Korea
Dr. W. Taliaferro Thompson, professor of Religious Education in Union Seminary and editor-in-chief of the “Review,” is in Korea, where he is giving a series of addresses on Sunday School organization and methods, and Young People’s work before the missionaries and native Christians. Dr. Thompson is addressing missionaries and native Christians of the Northern and Southern Presbyterian Churches, the Northern and Southern Methodist Churches, the Canadian Presbyterian Church, and the Australian Presbyterian Church. He will spend a month at the Methodist Seminary of Korea and a month at the Presbyterian Seminary. He is to go from one end of Korea to the other, and, before returning, will attend the annual meeting of the missionaries. His work will be finished about July 1st, when he starts home by way of India, the Holy Land, and Egypt, arriving in Richmond in September in time for the opening of the seminary.—The Union Seminary Review.

MORE THAN FRIENDS
The church papers carry the item that Messrs. W. W. Morton, ‘00, and J. J. Murray, ‘00, of Wilmington, have accepted joint work with the First Presbyterian Church, of Lexington, Va., where they will serve the students and faculty of Washington and Lee University and Virginia Military Institute. The friendship of these two Alumni is among the romances of the college. They were assigned rooms together as freshmen and continued as roommates throughout their four years. Each taught for a year before entering Union Seminary where they roomed together for three years. After a year in the ministry, in which they were separated, they went to Scotland to study for 18 months, tramping together in the British Isles for two summers and studying in the intervening year at the University of Glasgow. Both were chaplains in the war, Mr. Morton being sent to France and Mr. Murray to California. Since their return to private life Mr. Morton has been director of Young People’s Work in the First Presbyterian Church.

Mrs. Wilson MacConnell returnedof Wilmington, and Mr. Murray has been evangelist from Baltimore, last week. She was called there by the death of her mother, Mrs. Doyle. They have lived together in the Y. M. C. A. building.

THE UNIVERSAL CAR

A Welcome Member of the Family

A MOTOR car is never more appreciated than in the springtime. Its convenience and enjoyment are shared by all the family—and by speeding up the day's work, it provides more time for recreation. A Ford Touring Car provides every motor car essential at the lowest price for which a five-passenger car has ever sold—a price only made possible by complete manufacture, in tremendous volume, in the largest and most economically operated plants in the automobile industry. Efficiency of manufacture is accurately reflected in the quality and price of the Ford Touring Car.

FORD MOTOR COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN

Runabout — $265
Coupe — $525
Tudor Sedan — $590
Fordor Sedan — $685

All prices f. o. b. Detroit

You can buy any model by making a small down payment and arranging easy terms for the balance. Or you can buy on our Weekly Purchase Plan. The Ford dealer in your neighborhood will gladly explain both plans in detail.

PRESSON MOTOR COMPANY

Detroit went out under the joint auspices of the R. O. T. C. News. They will have work among the young. Its regular spring feed before the Senior exams begin. President J. I. Smith has announced that the feed will probably be held within the next week. At the meeting, officers for the next year will be elected. Plans will also be made to endeavor to get a large number of men up here next year to represent Davidson from the Palmetto State.

LETTER TO CLASS OF '19

April 26, 1924.

Say Fellows:

Just think backward for a few minutes—think back five years and see us just as we were before we were due to get those sheep-skins that we had been working for four long years. You remember that first great re-union we planned, how we were all going to be back and celebrate—and talk about our wives and children, etc.? Well, that time is at hand. Commencement this year, the last of May or the first of June, will mark the five-year post in our highways since we branched off from the old college. What do you say to having everybody in the class of '19 back? Will you be back yourself and work to get any nearby classmate back too? I'll say so! Let's all go—let's be on hand this year 100 percent strong. Let's show them that '19 has made its mark in the world just like it did in college.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man, there arises a question—"What am I going to do after graduation?" This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Would you like to try it this Summer? Write to us for particulars.

Fellows, this letter may reach you only after much traveling and by circuitous routes. Take that post card enclosed that is addressed back to me and write your present address on it and fire it back to me right away, so the next one won't have to take such a long road but can go straight home. Don't think of this letter as a form letter because it is mimeographed—think of it as a personal letter, as I am thinking personally of each one of you fellows as I write, and I’m hoping to have the pleasure of seeing each one of you again at commencement. Be sure to come—bring the wife and babies. Brookes may be there too to welcome you all with daddy.

Yours in D.C.,

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

Note of Thanks: Mr. and Mrs. Alexander White wish to express their appreciation to the student body for the sympathy expressed by the floral offering in their recent bereavement.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts

ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant—Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?

We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at

INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490