THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924

Now that baseball season is close at hand, this picture may serve to bring back pleasant recollections to the alumni.

Nationals in Charlotte Saturday.

AS YOU WERE

This cut shows the baseball team of 1917. W. M. Fetzer, Coach, S. C. Harris, Manager, J. M. Black, Captain. The personnel of the team is as follows: Keesler, Hengeveld, Withers, Worth, Saunders, Johnson, Wood, Boswell, Flowers, Miller, McMillan, and Pharr. The record of the 1917 season is as follows:

Davidson vs. Carolina
Davidson vs. Elon
Davidson vs. Wake Forest
Davidson vs. Trinity
Davidson vs. N.C. S.
Davidson vs. Trinity
Davidson vs. Carolina
Davidson vs. Lenoir

Who Knows?

To be appointed candle snuffer was generally agreed in 1856 to be the highest honor that could be paid to a Freshman in the Commencement exercises. To do this he was compelled to cross the platform, and, should he snuff the light out, there was great applause.

In 1859 the Eumenean Literary Society "reluctantly" granted permission to four young ladies to "attend our next irregular debate, to gratify an earnest desire on their part." The following minutes state: "They remained about 17 minutes, which time was amply sufficient to satiate their awful anxiety, and then they made their exit."

In 1856 students were required to rise 15 minutes before sunrise.

In the middle ages of the college history, the college professors were chastised for tardy attendance to regular faculty meetings, the last to arrive being compelled to act as secretary.

In the scholastic year of 1856-57, of the 83 Davidson students, only 22 were members of any church.

The class of 1869 holds the college, if not the world, record for scholastic standing, its members making an average of 97.31 for the four years. The lowest average of any student for his entire college course was 91 percent.

In 1908 Davidson had its first intercollegiate debate, meeting Wake Forest in Greensboro. Student interest here was so great that a special train was chartered and the entire student body accompanied the team to the contest. Out of the 21 intercollegiate debates held, Davidson has won 15.

In October 1916, following Davidson's 16-0 victory over N. C. State (then A. & M.) in Charlotte, the Commissary offered a prize of a Gold Medal Tennis Racquet to the composer of a distinctive Davidson song. Was "O Davidson" the result?

NICHES IN THE WILDCAT (Continued from page 2)

opposing centers that year and won a coveted position on the all-state team. This alone is a record few have surpassed, to make all-state the first year on the varsity. He was also Davidson’s high-point man in this season, scoring an average of over 11 points per game for the 13 games, making a total of 154 points.

In the '23 season he was again Davidson’s mainstay and high-point man. He chalked up 146 of the 504 points scored during the season. He outjumped and outplayed every center he opposed the whole season. Mauze’s work in his two years on the team is a wonderful example of what hard work, a stick-to-it spirit, and good coaching can do for an inexperienced athlete.

Not satisfied with basketball alone, George donned the stripes and cleats for the '23 season and pulled down an outfield position on “Buck” Currie’s Wildcat nine. He was a dependable player both in the field and at the bat and made his “D” in this sport also.

Mauze stood high in other student activities as well. He wrote for the Davidsonian and belonged to the Reporters’ Club. He belonged to the Volunteer Band, was a member of the Student Council, and the Executive Committee of the Athletic Association.Association. He was a popular man among his fellows and was elected secretary and treasurer of his class for the senior year. George entered Union Theological Seminary last fall and is now studying for the ministry. His college mates will predict great things for him in his chosen profession. Bill Black, who is with the American Trust Company in Charlotte, spent the week-end here with his mother. Miss Lena Reese spent the week-end in Davidson visiting Miss Adele Shelton.

Dr. Martin is slowly recovering from an illness from which he has been suffering for some time. The student body received a letter from Mrs. Martin thanking the students for flowers sent to Dr. Martin.

J. B. Huntington, who is now secretary at Wilmington, N. C., was a visitor on the hill this past week. Mr. Huntington was formerly Physical Director at Davidson.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

At the election of the Davidsonian staff, for that date, the following men were elected: D. W. Roberts, editor-in-chief; C. J. Matthews, business manager; L. L. McAlister, head of circulation department.

Dr. T. W. Lingle has been spending some time lecturing on European themes throughout the state. During the war, he was sent to France with the 13th American Engineers. For 11 months, he worked under fire a few miles west of the Verdun front. During October 1918, he lectured around Belfort and in Alsace, and in camps on the Swiss border. Afterwards, he was with the French army again in the Vosges for about a month and a half.

Upon the recommendation of Capt. Harry T. Todd, commanding headquarters 24th aero squadron, first army observation group, a Distinguished Service Cross will be posthumously awarded to Lieut. Sam R. Keesler, 17, of Greenwood, Miss., who fell in a fierce air contest, mortally wounded, within the German lines, October 8, 1918.

A double-headed freight passed through Davidson on Friday.

'16—E. C. Carson and R. H. Bennett, the latter in the real estate business in Gastonia, visited the hill recently.

George Crouch was on the hill visiting friends during the past week.

Professor and Mrs. O. J. Thies announce the birth of a daughter, Colin Austin Thies, March 11, 1924.

'19—Rev. E. C. Murray, who is a missionary to Mexico, is spending a furlough at his home in St. Pauls, N.C.

Miss Clara Smith was hostess at a St. Patrick’s social Monday afternoon, honoring Misses Mary Richards and Mary Black. The occasion was in the form of a contest. Miss May Richards was announced as the winner, having answered the greatest number of questions correctly. Afterwards, a salad course was served and the guests were presented with St. Patrick favors. The invited guests were Misses Black, Johnston, Adams, Lingle, Thompson, Richards, Finlayson, Steele, Martin, Grey, and Price.

In the mind of every serious-thinking college man, there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant—
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at INSURANCE DEPARTMENT Independence Trust Co. Phone 3490.