THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

=-O- ATHLETICS ALL =-O-

COX, N. C. STATE TACKLE

CLEMSON TIGER FRESHMEN

(Continued from page 1)

Richie, on the line, and Arrowood, at end, 

Soph Quint Marches Toward Championship With Victory Over Fresh As Juniors Win Game

Juniors Overwhelm Senior Five by 47-17 Score as Sophs Get Fourth 42-21

By snowing under their Freshmen rivals last Friday night to the count of 42-21, the fighting Soph aggregation continued its triumphant stride towards inter-class basketball honors. During the early periods of the game, the plucky Freshmen held their opponents to a draw score, but in the final quarters, the Sophs simply ran wild. Anderson, brilliant '27 center, piled up the record-breaking total of 26 points, 21 of which came in the second half when he apparently shot at will. Anderson was ably supported by his teammates both in guarding and passing; he needed no assistance in scoring. This victory gives the Sophs a clean sweep of their first series, having successively vanquished the Juniors, Seniors, and Freshmen rivals. Apparently, the only Junior aggregation which ran away with the Seniors in their first fracas between these two. The Sophs and Juniors clash in their final struggle on Friday night in what will probably be the hottest contest of the season.

Summary:

Showing a complete reversal of form, the speedy Junior basketeers ran roughshod over the Senior quint last Tuesday night, smothering their rivals by the most decisive score of the season, 47-17. The Seniors grabbed an early lead which, however, they lost in five minutes never to regain it. Brilliant shooting and close guarding carried the boys of '26 steadily ahead.

Summary:

Juniors (47) Seniors (17)
Fresh (21) Sophomores (42)

Filies (16) Linley (2)
Milner (7) Godykoontz (2)
R. F. Pettee
Lawson (13) Mathews (7)
L. F. Faucett (5)
Cooke (6) Trotter (16)
C. Anderson (26)
Oden (4) Price
R. G. Wharton
McKachern
L. G. Holshouser (2)

Substitutes: Freshmen—Gray; Sophomores—Kaiser and Kaiser.

Junior-Senior Game

Parks (10) Simpson (9)
Right Guard
Gurrig (9) Keerans
Left Guard

HOW THEY LINE UP

North Carolina State

Player School Position Weight Years
Studdart—Washington LE 172 1
Chios—Guilford LT 178 3
S. W. Moore LG 173 2
Gaui Center 184 2
Mauldin RG 173 3
Harvey G. Logan—Shelby RT 162 3
Tuttle RE 142 5
Johnston—Rocky Mount QB 142 5
Dunlap RH 146 2
Shurord—Raleigh LH 182 2
Wilson FB 175 3

What the Wildcats’ prospects are for future games is not a question for the pessimist nor the optimist to roll unto his tongue as a sweet morsel. Clemson, Carolina, and Trinity mean fight and every bit of the Wildcat spirit that can be mustered for Captain Davis to bring back the pigskins.

With Clemson, it is not a toss of the coin as to who will win, for the Tigers have a heavy and well-coached team, with an almost impregnable line. This calls for some clever skirting of the ends by Coach Monk’s evasive half-backs. Clemson's 3-0 defeat by South Carolina was by no means a sign of weakness and thoseMelton, Harrison, McGeachy, Overton, Austell—Shelby) who saw the game will attest that it will be no picnic when the Wildcats and Tigers get to mingling claws on November 8th in Charlotte. Carolina has a good team. Last year Davidson suffered a 14-3 defeat at Chapel Hill but this year’s gridiron aggregation for Davidson has proven itself far superior to the one of last year. They have been seasoned as it were. Comparative scores point to an even chance for the Red and Black warriors. But what's in comparative scores? Teams do take spurts to win by a big victory and which shall it be—Davidson or Carolina on November 15 when the two teams meet on Richardson field.

November 15 also marks the date of Home Coming Day. Speaking of comparative scores—it seems that Trinity has lost its hold in the prospects of repeating last year’s 18 to 6 victory. If anything, the scores give Davidson the edge in this matter but this is no reason to believe that victory will be a matter of course for Coach Jones is building a credible, aggressive team at Trinity. This annual Thanksgiving game will be played at Durham.

Y. M. C. A. Bible classes under Bill Ramsey, will start next Wednesday night. These classes have been postponed on account of the meetings now being conducted by Dr. Hend. The plan as worked out for these classes is a fine one. The whole scheme will be divided into twenty groups, each with a permanent leader. Each leader will meet with Professor and discuss with them the subjects to be taken up in the group meetings. On Wednesday, the leaders will meet their groups at seven o'clock. The course will last for six weeks with one meeting each week. The theme or general subject for the entire series will be living campus problems. Each group will take up these problems and endeavor to find the Biblical solution of each. The book to be used as a guide in this will be Bruce Currie’s Problem Approach. These classes will be of benefit to all who attend them, showing them what the Bible says concerning several important problems.

You have to know college men and what they want before you can build shoes to suit them. The new John Ward Fall Styles fit their needs with the same snug satisfaction that the shoes will fit their feet. On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store Nov. 3rd.

INCORPORATED REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Boston. Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City.

New York Cafe
29 West Trade St.
The Decent Place to Eat
Davidson Men Always Welcome

Hart Schaffner & Marx
Young Men Tell Us We've Scored A Bullseye
There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s vigor, life, ZIP in them.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men