4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 20, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
LISTON D. ELKINS

Business Manager
REGINALD L. PRICE

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE - Managing Editor
J. A. LAKE - Assistant Managing Editor
H. B. PRICE - Assistant Managing Editor
W. M. GALLOWAY - Athletic Editor
V. Z. BRADFORD - Peanut Parcher Editor
A. C. WATKINS - Associate Editor
W. M. STORY - Associate Editor
O. W. McALPIN - Alumni Editor

Business Staff
WATT McCAIN - Subscription
X. A. THOMPSON - Circulation Manager
W. H. CROMWELL - Bookkeeper
W. R. HOUGH - Advertising Manager
M. GARRISON - Service Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres.
APPLEBY, J. M.
BOWIE, L. B.
GIBBS, J. L.
GREEN, G. D.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
MILHOUS, J. F.
MILTON, W. E.
MOORE, J. E.
MONK, C. F.
MORROW, G. M.
O'CONNOR, F. P.
ROGERS, J. M.
THOMPSON, J. M.
WILLIAMS, D. G.

EDITORIAL

Student body elections are like after-dinner speeches. Everything is all right so long as the cigars last.

And now the paragrapher of the Carolinian is at odds with the powers that be just because an extra day had to be slipped in at Leap Year. A downright reflection it is, we will have to admit, on the powder and paint artists. Maybe the young lady from N. C. C. W. is correct in her assertion that most girls can get the year’s work done in the normal 365.

“One killing merits another.” Look out! Some people are in for a hanging all because of the way they treat their time.

Balloon tires are coming in for a good share of criticism, but students of Davidson are urged to support them tooth and toenail. With balloon tires on all cars plying between Davidson and Charlotte it would be so much easier to get “picked up.”

Still the Student Store continues to prosper. Soon we will expect to see the operators of said place of business carrying a hefty bay window and a fifty cent cigar—the kind the cartoonists draw for the over-prosperous. And still the business managers of the publications are starving to death. Haven't you noticed it—“yon lean and hungry look.”

Many of the men who fall by the wayside are those who stopped to pat themselves on the back and were knocked off the road by the hustlers who couldn't stop.

HAIL TO THE CHIEF

Jim Hendrix is ascribed the highest honor conferred by the student body—that of student body executive. There is little fear he will underestimate the responsibility vested in him. All the strength of character, and all the moral stamina that is Jim’s will be called into action. His courage and conviction will be tried. His patience and physical strength will be taxed. He will have to relinquish all claims to personal desire and gratification, sacrificing himself for the student body he represents. He will be forced to disregard friendships and affiliations in the strict performance of his duty, and yet call every man on the campus friend. The staunch friendships of an entire student body will do much to assure the success of his administration.

Jim should swell with pride when he considers the signal honor bestowed upon him. There will be times, however, when he will feel a littleness and an incompetency to meet the problems that arise. Then will come the real test. This feeling of diminutiveness should stimulate a more exaggerated effort and a grim determination to measure up to the problems that constantly arise.

Jim must shoulder the responsibility. He will do it. He loves his Alma Mater, and as chief executive he will give his all. He has done it on the gridiron and on the cinder path. He will do it in this, the most stupendous task he has undertaken.

A FOURTH PRICE

Harry Price will wear the regalia that fits few men, and that is becoming to fewer. The official cloak of the Y. M. C. A. presidency, unlike many “hand-me-downs,” fits Harry like a model. From brother to brother the cloak has been handed down, Harry being the fourth of the Price brothers to serve as Y. M. C. A. president. Harry's qualifications for the leadership of religious activity on the Hill are pronounced. He will maintain the records of service set by his brothers before him and he will set new records for men who follow him in his executive capacity.

ANOTHER POINT SYSTEM

One of the most successful measures taken by the Davidson student body during the career of the present Senior Class has to do with the regulation of student activity. This measure is in the form of a point system, limiting the activities, or so-called honors, of members of the Senior class. The point system has worked admirably.

A new condition has arisen which necessitates some form of regulation. The number of honorary societies and fraternities has increased out of proportion with the growth of the student body, and as a result there is an over-organization that is menacing the success of student activities as well as the scholastic standing of the students.

How many honorary fraternities have been chartered at Davidson? You have never stopped to consider! Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, Alpha Phi Epsilon, Delta Pi Kappa, Sigma Pi Sigma, Gamma Sigma Epsilon, are all honorary societies. There is in addition the Polity Club, a Spanish Club, Le Circle Francais, etc., also honorary in their nature. They are all organized for the purpose of rewarding students for meritorious service in a particular activity. There is, however, an active program connected with every organization named above, excepting Phi Beta Kappa, and it is this training and study which makes the so-called honorary organization worthy of its existence.

Davidson is too small to support seven Greek letter honor societies. This number might well serve a University where several thousands of students are congregated, whose interests are diversified, and where there is a specialization of activity. For a college of five hundred students, however, where everyone's interests are practically identical, it is a tragedy to assume the support of so many organizations. The over-burdening of public-spirited men with honorary fraternities is no less serious than the centralization of student body power in the hands of one or two men. In each case it is an injustice to the individual men concerned, as well as an unfortunate circumstance for the student body at large. A man’s activity is hampered if he has to fit into the program of two or three working societies, in addition to keeping up the activities by which he won a place of honor; all of which is a side issue in college life. The campus at large is done an injustice because of the inefficiency occasioned by the overwork of campus leaders.

Can the blame be laid at the feet of the men who accept membership into these organizations? Theoretically it can, but theory is flung to the winds during the latter half of a man’s Junior year and the first half of his Senior year. It is not human for mortal man to run from praise, nor is it natural that he should decline to affiliate with an honorary fraternity, realizing that the invitation was extended in reward for services rendered to the college. It was not natural that a man should refuse to accept two or three of the most important student body offices, prior to the adoption of the point system. The point system was a remedy for the situation.

Would not a point system be practical in the regulation of membership in honorary fraternities? It is important that some step should be taken to relieve the situation. Should it be the dissolution of several organizations, or can some plan be worked out whereby one man’s membership can be limited to a certain number of organizations? Consider this proposal!

Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa shall be excluded from a point system to regulate honorary fraternity membership. Affiliation with these two organizations shall not be considered as coming under this regulation. All other Greek letter honor societies shall be placed upon a five-point basis, no man in the student body being allowed to hold more than five points. A common bid day shall be set by a commission composed of one representative from each fraternity concerned. In the event one man receives more than one bid, he must choose of his own free will which bid, if any, he will accept. Therewill be faults in the proposed system. Every year it will work a hardship upon a certain number of men. On the other hand, it will open the field to a greater number of men and will promote, ultimately, the minimum service to be derived from honorary societies. More men will become interested, and the standing of the fraternities will be raised to a higher level. Every man will be a worker because his interests are centered in one organization. Shall it be a point system, somewhat similar to the plan outlined above; shall it be the disorganization of certain societies which can be made useful to groups of men heretofore untouched by such activities; or shall the societies drift along in the same old channel, the same men interested (disinterested it has proven on many occasions) in every organization?

A RECORD HOLDER

In compiling the future “Who's Who" of Davidson College, there is certainly one man whose name will be written in brazen letters on one of the most conspicuous pages thereof. His smiling face, black as the ace of spades, is one of the most common sights on the campus, and his friends are numbered by his acquaintances. Especially will the occupants of West bear witness to the above statements. It is in this building that he spends his time, contributing his part toward the advancement of Davidson College. He visits every room, giving a cheery nod and a joyous greeting to everyone he meets. It is his purpose to make life worth living for. His is a wonderful contribution to the happiness of the students. Jethro Twitty has a smile that stretches from one ear on the east to the other on the west. It is perpetual as the sun, and beneath it is a happy disposition that he shares with everyone with whom he comes in contact. It will be no wonder if Jethro’s name gets into Davidson's “Who's Who.” He holds the all-time, all-Davidson cheer record.

I WILL TRY

Here is a good clipping. This is taken from the Kiwanis Magazine. It is worth pasting up where all can read it:

“I will try to be a lifter—not a leaner; to encourage, never discourage; lighten the sorrow of others; make the world a little sweeter place in which to live, keeping in mind the will of God; make sunshine in life's shady places; look on the bright side of everything; be clean in body and mind, working industriously and honestly for a living and a spotless character so I can look up—not dream down—and meet Death’s coming with a fearless smile; rejoice in life; have a hope and faith in everybody until they, themselves, destroy it; try to live without hate, jealousy or envy; avoid speaking critically and bitterly; repeat only the good I hear; be cheerful in disappointments; charitable toward the erring and the fallen; smile more—frown less; follow the Golden Rule.”

HERE’S A GOOD ONE WE HEARD RECENTLY

A young lady, who had tired of her lover's calls and fearing that he would never depart, gave him a little problem to solve. She handed him a pencil and paper and told him to “make a row of eleven ciphers; then to make a perpendicular line downward at the right of the first, fifth and tenth ciphers, and upward at the right of the fourth, seventh and eighth ciphers.” After he had completed the task, he surveyed it for a minute, and then without a word of explanation, suddenly departed. Work it out.

ISN’T IT FUNNY

Isn't it funny that the first thing a businessman will do when his wife catches him kissing the maid; and starts an awful muss; and drags him into court for the judge to look over; and tells the judge what a soft old fool he is; and of what her suspicions about him have always been; and everything—that his first thought will be to rush to the newspaper office and try to keep the story out of print? The next day he turns down advertising with the argument that advertising doesn’t advertise —Croswell Jeffersonian.

Special favors follow special duties. So long as you are discontented with yourself, there is hope. A good listener generally knows more than the fellow who does the talking. The world extends the glad hand to the successful man and hands it to the unfortunate. The boys don’t sing as much as they did in the pre-prohibition days, but neither do they break down and weep on the bartender's neck at closing time. The only sure method of eliminating war is to have laws requiring that the first to go shall be the government officials, legislative bodies, money kings, and politicians. That would settle it.

Chaff

SPRING FEVERS

A newborn note of Spring is here with buds and flowers fair. The plunk of balls and bats are heard on soft and balmy air. Our thoughts have turned from winter courts and to the vernal call, we spurn the lure of frosty sports and heed the Ump’s ‘Play Ball.” The swish of bats against the sphere will bring the fans to see a noble game. From everywhere we hear the good old plea to keep the national game; to keep it going high, and for it, I will sign my name and put me down as HA Gad Spring. The glorious Springtime ushers in its annual crop of budding and bursting poets crammed with ideas of moving the world with their verse and worse, along with the more truly natural products such as birds and bees. The call of the robin as he looks for bookworms among the trees near the library, and for fire bugs in the dormitories. Fishing worms make impudent faces at you because they know that you have a re-exam ahead, while the sweet aroma of gasoline of the highway sends a clarion call for knights of the road to venture forth. Everyone is restless, even the none-too-sprightly janitors that janitorize the sleeping quarters of the college boys. Even sleepy ‘Lias Faison has waked up from his lethargic sleep of the winter and is gadding about to beat the deuce (whoever that may be). All told, Springtime is a mighty satisfying time to young and old alike.

Makes

Many a fellow thinks his girl is treating him like a dog when she is really treating him like a lap dog.

One

Oh! could I sing of blithesome Spring, I'd rarify the air with sundry ditties sure to bring the polecat from his lair. I would not lisp of ’Lysian Fields nor roundelays so low, a wicked Parker would I yield with measured beat and slow. I'd write a page or two of verse that had no rhyme or sense; I'd call it “free verse,” short and terse, all rough stuff, I'd not wince. These ravings sell for jack and dough— I'd rake the greenbacks in, what if no poetry it could show? Nor verse had even been? My fame would spread in every clime 'Twould be for all to view. They'd call my scribblings divine, because ‘twas something new.

Lazy

And lest we forget, a dumbbell fresh thought that Elysian Fields was a sister of our own Mason.

We

Here’s where I have a little fun on my own hook, said the gay young Perch as he nibbled at the bait.

Wonder

Watt McCain, moved to an unusual degree of activity by the enlivening Spring zephyrs, has announced his intention of taking Greek. His reason is that he wants to be the proprietor of a banana stand.

No, Oswald, we would not advise you to read the “Skyscraper,” as it has too many flighty stories in it.

That’s

A Flapper Flipped on down the Street, Her Hose were Rolled just So, She gave Her Head a Toss so neat, And said, “Let March Winds Blow.”

What’s

Spring practice of all kinds had been the stuff around here lately, but P. C. (Pretty and Cute) Henderson has taken the lead in the shrieking business. At the Charlotte-Lenoir game at the gym last week, this gallant and handsome youth from the Queen City held the center position on the leather-covered seat at the gym with two girls on each side. He had them so engrossed that they didn’t know that there was a game until it was all over. Some say that he does it by the power of his eye, and others say that he does it by the power of his “I.”

The

A dumb boy is By Jobe Rogers, he thinks that skiing is hard on one’s feet.

Matter

A Professor's fame is spread by the line he knows— A Flapper’s fame is spread by the lines she shows.

With

A treatise on Springtime would not be complete without mentioning the young man’s fancy which makes a complete revolution on its orbit thinking of the amatory powers that be. A young girl’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love starting January 1, and ending at midnight December 31.

Us?

A certain young student around these parts was observed going to the “Y” services Sunday with a straw hat on his head. When questioned about it, he said that he was wearing it merely because Mr. “Sometime” was to speak that evening.