THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

Senior Class Statistics Show That Psychological Tests Are Reliable

By Dr. Thos. W. Lingle

A psychological test was first applied to all new men at Davidson in September, 1921, involving 184 men enrolled as
Freshmen. Since that date, these tests have been applied annually to all incoming men. In this study, no account is
taken of the dozen or more Seniors who dropped back from a preceding class, or who entered advanced standing from
other colleges. For some reason, 12 Freshmen did not take the test, or else their grades have been lost. Only
one of these 12 is now here to tell the tale.

The Terman tests were used, offering a maximum possible score of 220 points. There were 45 men whose score was
above 171. These constitute the highest quartile. Of their number, exactly 20 are at Davidson now in the Senior class.
The men of the second quartile graded from 170 down to 149 inclusive, involving 46 men, of whom just 20
are Seniors today. The men of the third quartile ranged in grades from 148 to 119. Of these 46 men,
23 are with us today. The 47 men of the lowest quartile scored somewhere between 118 and the vanishing point.
Only seven of them are here now.

Summing up, it appears that we must have about seven men in the lowest quartile of the Freshman class in
order to ensure the presence of just one man of their number three years later, and further, that the chances
of a man in this quartile to remain and graduate are about one-third as good as those of a man
in any one of the other three quartiles. Of the seven men still remaining from this quartile, one is an
exceptionally good student, and another seems exceptionally popular, judging from honors they have held in student organizations during these three
years.

A high-grade student works slowly. In the psychological test, one works against time, and the slow, painstaking student does not
score high. It is interesting to note that the 20 men from the highest quartile today hold more than twice
as many honors in student organizations as the men from all the three other quartiles combined, showing that students like
to choose these high-scorers to high office. These 20 furnish today the heads of the Student Body, of the Y.
M. C. A., of Omicron Delta Kappa (leadership fraternity), Sigma Upsilon (literary fraternity), Delta Pi Kappa (journalistic fraternity), Sigma Pi
Sigma (physics fraternity), the International Relations Club, the Debating Council, the Editors-in-chief of The Davidsonian, The Davidson College Magazine, Quips
and Cranks (College Annual), as well as the Major Battalion (Reserve Officers’ Training Corps). This is only a partial list
of honors held by some of these 20 men. Newly elected members of Phi Beta Kappa, with one exception, belong
to this group.

In concluding, it may not be amiss to call the attention of social groups on the campus to the fact
that men who score very low in mental tests are not likely to remain for graduation, and that if these
groups wish to have men among their numbers who shall receive honors at the hands of their fellow students, they
should look very favorably on that group of men who score high in psychological tests. Room should always be made,
however, for notable exceptions in either case. If a Freshman tried similar tests in high school, this experience will enable
him to score higher than his classmate of equal mentality who has not had this experience. In a group of
250 Freshmen, a few will not be feeling well the day of the test, and cannot do themselves justice. Again,
exceptions will occur. In all of the above observations, we are interested primarily in averages, at the same time insisting
on consideration of the exceptional case. These averages will have far greater meaning in a few years when we shall
have had the opportunity to make a study of several successive classes.PYRAMID CLUB INITIATES

The Pyramid Club has initiated the following new members within the past few weeks: Prof. Wm. L. Porter, Walter T.
Davis, and John T. Kimbrough. While president of Princeton University, Woodrow Wilson said: “You can’t educate a man; he must
educate himself, and the way he must do it is by reading. The most we can do is to direct
that reading.”

R. O. T. C. News

In a few weeks, the Freshman class will begin their rifle-firing course. This course is divided into three parts: first,
the preliminary instruction and practice; second, the indoor range practice in the basement of the gym; and third, the outdoor
rifle firing on the range beyond the golf course. The latter will not begin until spring. Several other institutions in
all parts of the country have sent challenges in rifle-firing to the Davidson headquarters, and Captain Weems hopes to get
up a winning team in the near future to accept these challenges.

GROUND GAINED DAVIDSON BACKS

Covington 222822 ee 95
NGGOMDRe eke res ae 89
Sapp. S222ees ce vo. so a R2
INITENG cee ee ae ot SAO)
WiGlISe2 eet be ser eo AG
BES Wiles e Seisa sce ss eas HCN
UhiNg ero oececuewasa eas FUN
tee ee ae 26
BIg GK eee vee so sea 19
appenield), gue eae 19

ADDED INTEREST SHOWN IN SUNDAY SCHOOL WORK

Reports from the various Sunday School deputations show a steady swelling of membership and an increase in interest shown. The
attendance Sunday at Shearer Chapel was forty-seven. A successful Rally Day program was carried out. Among the college men present
were: Ray Garrett, G. McMillan, I. Crinkly, L. McCutcheon, G. R. Sims, C. D. Patterson, P. F. Jones, T. J.
Voss, and L. B. Gibbs. After Sunday School, Pritchett spoke and Voss led in singing. Gibbs and Patterson remained for
Christian Endeavor in the evening.

The newly formed Oak Grove Sunday School ran something over twenty. M. G. Lyerly, C. R. McCarty, and Jeff Garrison
have this Sunday School in charge and report the interest is being taken by the members and an increasing attendance
is expected. The different classes were organized.

Much regret was displayed at the Cornelius Sunday School when Mr. Sossum, for 16 years superintendent of that Sunday School,
tendered his resignation. Ill health forced this upon him. Mr. Puckett will succeed him and progressive work is expected to
continue. The representatives from Davidson last Sunday were: Wade Allison, Tag Guiton, and Vom Barr. Vom Barr led the singing
while Allison played. The attendance was 72.

Mrs. Ida Clift Arbuckle will spend a few weeks with Natalie.

The Old-Fashioned College Sweaters Resign in Favor of these Smart Slip-Over Sweaters

You will “second the motion” when you see these swagger slip-over sweaters in smart color combinations. Smart college men everywhere
are wearing them. Solid colors with contrasting trimming, at $3. Effective plaid and stripe effects, at $7.50.

Solid color with colored trim, $3
Novelty plaids and stripes, $7.50

“Charlotte’s Quality Department Store”

The Greater Bon Marché

Coupe - $525
Tudor Sedan - $590
Fordor Sedan - $685
All prices f. o. b. Detroit

The Logical Choice of the Careful Buyer

The Ford car delivers more useful, care-free, economical service per dollar invested than any other car. Its sturdy, rigid construction
is striking evidence of enduring materials. Every minute operation is scientifically tested and accurately checked. Control of natural resources and
complete manufacture in large volume have made possible value that is the one standard by which every motor car must
necessarily be judged. The Ford car is the logical and necessary choice of the buyer who wants to get the
utmost from every motoring dollar.

Ford Motor Co.

SEE THE NEAREST AUTHORIZED FORD DEALER
