“THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

ALUMNI NOTES

’23—Frank Toney is in Greensboro in the automobile business.

’24—J. W. DeArmon is teaching and coaching football at Lowell High School, Lowell, N. C.

’24—Watt McCain is at Lexington, N. C., in the textile industries.

‘01—B. W. McClintock is cashier at Charlotte National Bank.

’09—J. James, of Laurinburg, S. C., is in the real estate business.

’08—Dr. Oren Moore is a prominent surgeon of Charlotte, N. C.

’09—H. A. Query is editor of the Gastonia Gazette.

’21—J. R. Walker is now a student at the Union Theological Seminary.

’99—S. A. Robinson is a prominent businessman of Gastonia, N. C.

’23—W. S. Shepherd, Jr., is in business in Winston-Salem, N. C.

’22—S. W. Stacy is teaching at Hemp, N. C.

’24—A. D. Cromartie is now professor in the schools of Loray, N. C.

’24—P. B. Price is schoolmaster in Sandy Hollow Schools, N. C.

’68—Capt. R. H. Morrison of the Officers’ Reserve Corps, has recently been promoted to the rank of major.

’81—Dr. H. Louis Smith, of Washington and Lee, returned to his home Thursday, and, while he is not expecting to
take up active work for some time owing to his recent illness, he will resume his work after Christmas.

’07—Dr. and Mrs. G. H. Croom are spending some time at Black Mountain and came down for the Carolina game.
While at Davidson he was the roommate of one of the members of the present faculty.

’12—Rev. I. S. McElroy, Jr., a missionary to Marugame, Japan, while home on a furlough, has been engaged by the
Kings Mountain Presbytery to visit its churches, speaking in the interest of foreign missions.

’20—Rev. W. C. Neel is now located at Charleston, W. Va.

’24—A. M. Hurd is a popular professor of Spanish, History, and Science in the Oakdale School, near Charlotte.

’24—J. P. Story is now teaching near Bessemer City, N. C.

’23—W. S. Buchanan is also inspiring young heads with his ability in language instruction in the high schools of Shelby,
N. C.

’23—Joe Baldwin, of Clarkton, professor in high schools and popular insurance agent at Pembroke, is now convalescent following an attack
of chicken-pox.

NEW ADDRESSES

’04—C. A. Cornelson is head of the Department of English at State College of Washington, at Pullman, Wash.

’18—T. M. Misenheimer is a Senior at the Medical College of Charleston, S. C.

’10—W. B. Thomas is district manager of Aetna Life Insurance Company, with offices at 902 Chamber of Commerce Building, Pittsburgh,
Penna.

’16—Rev. W. G. Somerville has recently moved from Hillsville to Steele’s Tavern, Va.

’22—W. B. Dunlap holds a responsible position with the National Union Bank of Rock Hill, S. C. He spent the
weekend on the Hill.

’20—Rev. J. L. Fowle is assistant pastor of Central Presbyterian Church, Delmar Boulevard and Clara Ave., St. Louis, Mo.

Ministerial Band Talks.

Harry Price, president of the “Y,” spoke to the Ministerial Band at the regular meeting Sunday afternoon. He used as
his subject, The Heart of the Christian Religion, which he said is in friendship.

“We should look facts in the face,” he said. “We look on Christ as the Perfect One when we should
also look up to Him as a man among men.

“When we see men doing wrong, we immediately condemn them; however, Christ did not immediately condemn men; He looked deep
into the heart to see what the man or woman really was, and He appreciated the good He found there.
Some man looked into Dwight L. Moody's heart and saw the possibilities of a great Christian leader. We now know
Dwight L. Moody, but what of the other man?

“We are often so wrapped up in ourselves that we do not look for anything in others. This is not
Christianity.”

Several alumni, now students at Union Seminary, were present and were asked to say a few words. Knight, McLaughlin, and
Summers each made a short talk, in which they gave some very helpful suggestions to the men in college now
preparing for the ministry.

DRAMATIC CLUB GIVES THREE ONE-ACT PLAYS

(Continued from page 1)

The Dramatic Club is endeavoring to secure more plays for production here. Later in the year, the club plans to
present the best of the plays in other towns of the state. In latter years, the Dramatic Club has been
adhering to the policy of enacting only the original dramas of Davidson students. Professor Erwin has contributed several himself which
have met with marked success.

The money taken in from the local presentation of the plays will be used to pay expenses on the proposed
trips. The manager reports that so far the club has done exceedingly well financially. This was especially true of the
performance the other evening.

By replenishing their funds by their Davidson appearances, the Dramatic Club believes that it can judge the merits of its
plays by noting what reception they meet with the student body and visitors. The club not only enacts original plays,
using only local talent, but it also paints all the scenery and arranges all the props necessary to the various
one-act plays. All of the stage work is done by students under the supervision of Professor Erwin. Any member of
the student body is eligible to membership in the Dramatic Club provided he has sufficient talent at acting.

THE SHAW CONCERT COMPANY

(Continued from page 1)

In that time with Redpath Chautauqua, Community Chautauqua, Ellison and White, and the Piedmont Lyceum.

Mr. Shaw, son of the directress, is an accomplished player of the saxophone and clarinet, showing himself to be a
master of either of these instruments. Mr. Ponder also plays a saxophone, as well as a violin, and rendered several
solos during the evening. Mr. Ponder and Mr. Shaw have been associated with each other in Redpath and Community Chautauquas,
and also with the Night Hawk Entertainers of Kansas City.

Mr. Shepard proved himself an excellent cornetist, winning the admiration of his audience by his execution of difficult and peculiar
pieces, which were quite audible.

Davidson Students To Hear Salem Professor

Moravian Professor of Bible to Address Vespers Here Sunday Afternoon

The Davidson students are fortunate in securing the services of Bishop Rondthaler, of Salem College, as speaker for the “Y”
vesper service next Sunday evening. He is not only a bishop and the pastor of the Moravian Church in Winston-Salem,
but he is also professor of Bible in Salem College. He has served in the capacity of pastor and teacher
of the Bible for nearly 50 years.

The Bishop is a man of wide experience both at home and in foreign fields. He has made many and
long voyages to the Holy Land and has spent much time in research work there. On several of these trips,
the Bishop has spent time with his native church in Germany, from whence he came to America.

Bishop Rondthaler’s son has been president of Salem College for three years and is also a prominent man in the
Moravian Church. He was one of the Y. M. C. A. speakers at Davidson last year.

Who Knows?

THAT, in November of the year 1804, Messrs Barringer and H. L. Wilson broke the cycle record to Charlotte, making
the run of twenty-two miles in eighty minutes. These men were members of the “Davidson Wheelers,” the college cycling club.

THAT, on the 6th of November in the same year, two featherweight elevens, known as the “Ugly Plugs” and the
“Plug Uglys,” met on the gridiron in bloody contest with the score resulting in the victory 4 to 0 of
the “Plug Uglys.”

THAT the Davidson Monthly carries the notice: “Davidson was entertained the evening of the 10th of last month, by a
phonograph. Mr. Trautman, the Manager of the instrument, had in his repertoire many of the latest popular songs. The intonations,
though a little peculiar, were quite audible. Messrs. McGeachy and Johnson sang a duet at the request of the audience
which the instrument reproduced.”

THAT during the Nineties the Y. M. C. A. building (now the Armory) had, among other facilities for diversion, a
bowling alley.”a large skating floor, which was often the scene of skating meets and carnivals. On Saturday the rink was
held open for the young ladies of the town and their escorts.

THAT in 1801 there were only 75 subscribers to the college publication The Davidson Monthly.

THAT, the minutes of the Philanthropic Society for a meeting called August the third, 1849, contained this note: “The object
of this meeting, as explained, was to appoint a committee to wait on the Band at Commencement and also a
committee to attend to the snuffing of candles on Wednesday evening of commencement.”

THAT, in the early days of the college, it was considered a disgrace for a “Phi” to associate with a
“Eu” and vice-versa.

THAT, political questions were at that time favorite topics for discussion and that the majority of the students were inclined
toward radical views.

The following are a few of the ten rules laid down for the freshman Co-eds at Auburn: Freshmen shall not
chew gum, hold hands, or swing on the arms of young men in public. Freshmen shall give full support to
all pep meetings. Freshmen shall not “joy” walk, lipstick or rouge conspicuously at any time. Freshmen shall not refuse to
lend to upper-classmen powder, hair-pins, needles, thread, etc. —The Plainsman.

Those girls who are “akin” to ducks are delighted that the swimming pool has been refilled. The pool is one
of the G. W. C. “drawing cards,” and it is hoped that it will be filled throughout the entire winter.
Many new girls who cannot swim are planning to be experts by commencement. Miss Dupuy will have two classes—one for
those who are advanced swimmers, and one for beginners. —Spokesman.

R. O. T. C. News

The local military department is in correspondence with officials of Fort Bragg, in an endeavor to secure the air service
of the camp to make aerial photographs of Davidson College and the surrounding country. From the photographs, a mosaic would
be made, if the proposed plan can be carried through. The mosaic will be a valuable supplement to this vicinity.

Warrant Officer Lacock, who has been directing the Davidson College Band, will soon leave for his home station at Fort
Bragg. The Wildcat Band, under his capable direction, has been making wonderful progress, and the Military Department speaks very highly
of the splendid work Mr. Lacock has done while on the Hill. Regular Army officers who are stationed in Charlotte
have been invited to witness the Wednesday drills at Davidson. Considerable competition has developed among the companies and platoons of
the battalion, to have the best line while passing in review at the parade ceremonies on the campus. The company
which makes the best appearance is rewarded by being dismissed five minutes early.

Captain Weems leaves on Thanksgiving Day for Annapolis, Md., to visit his brother, Lieutenant-Commander P. W. H. Weems. Captain Weems
expects to attend the Army-Navy game which is to be played the following week at Baltimore.

GREENSBORO COLLEGE AND CONVERSE GLEE CLUBS (Continued from page 1)

singing and string instruments. The mandolin club, which will accompany the glee club, consists of eight members, all recognized as
good performers, who will undoubtedly render a good program. The Converse club is under the direction of Miss Clora Bancroft,
a musician who is widely known for her ability to direct musical programs and concerts. Several short plays, written by
the young ladies of the college, will be given, varying the program just enough to make it highly entertaining. Among
the songs that will be included in the program are some that were composed, both words and music, by the
members of the club, which will be novel as well as entertaining. The program, from beginning to end, will be
full of good songs, solos, selections by the quartet, plays, and a short program given by the mandolin club, which
will assure the audience a delightful evening.

Interest Continues In Work of Sunday Schools

Students Carry Messages to Folk of Surrounding Community Each Week

The various reports from the Sunday Schools show increasing interest with one or two exceptions where a new effort is
being made to establish them. At Shearer Chapel last Sunday there were several new members who have not been accustomed
to coming. These are starting in with a renewed interest. A greater interest is being taken at Shearer Chapel as
a result of a series of revivals that were held there last week. The students who attended services there last
Sunday were L. B. Gibbs, Leighton McCutcheon, John Crinkley, Archie Ray, and C. D. Patterson. After the Sunday School, Irvin
Knight, who graduated from Davidson in the class of ‘22, preached an unusually good sermon. Gibbs and Patterson remained for
Christian Endeavor that night and the attendance there was larger than usual. Gibbs has organized a class in Christian Endeavor
training and personal work for Christian Endeavor leaders. This class is taught 30 minutes before the regular Christian Endeavor meeting.

The three men who went to Oak Grove Sunday were Jeff Garrison, Raymond McCarty, and M. C. Lyerly. They reported
nothing of new interest that took place last Sunday. The attendance at the Sunday School at the Mill was about
20 for last Sunday. Wallace Purdy, Prof. F. L. Jackson, M. C. Yeargan, and Forrest Franklin attended there. Franklin led
the singing, Mr. Jackson taught the adult class, while Fred Phillips taught the small boys’ class.

At the Convict Camp Dr. Harding lectured for 45 minutes. His subject was Conquest for Happiness. The students who attended
were C. I. Norwood, John Ricks, and A. D. Viernes. The last named rendered a cornet solo.

Police stopped the Freshman-Sophomore fight at the University of Rochester, as the greenhorns were threatening to remove their opponents from
the earth. One freshman was unconscious for half an hour. At Brown University the Sophs waited till two o'clock in
the morning before attacking. Half the Freshmen had gone to bed. The others got a trimming, and then the weary
ones were singly routed out, etc. —New Student.

Comparative scores mean little, if anything. Davidson tied State where State beat Trinity 14-0.

WARREN’S of Philadelphia TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

GET YOUR TUXEDO FOR THANKSGIVING DANCES

Special Top Coats $25.00 Made To Order Suits $35.00

SHOWING 103 WEST Monday, November 24th JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep. Formerly of Guilford’s

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in
your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department McAlister. Carson, Manager Charlotte, N. C. Phone 3940
