THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

SNOWED OUT THIS WEEK BUT STILL GOING STRONG

Belmont Legion Meets Defeat to Phi Gam Quint

After leading their opponents by five or six points until the last five minutes of play, the Phi Gam basketball
team was defeated by the Belmont Legion last Thursday night by the score of 33 to 26. The passing of
both teams was excellent and although the Davidson team had the better teamwork and were better marksmen, the Legion men
were on the job when it came to guarding and individual work. The half ended with the score standing 16
to 12 in favor of the Davidson team. Leeper, who had been closely guarded and was able to get only
one goal, broke loose and proved to be the downfall of the Phi Gam team. To all the spectators, it
appeared that the Davidson team had the game sewed up. Then things began to hum. Mallery was put out of
the game on personal fouls, and the passing fell to pieces. Leeper, with his cohorts, was quick to seize the
opportunity, and with his teammates feeding him, he made enough points to leave his opponents hopelessly behind; and when the
smoke cleared away, the Belmont team had the game tucked away with the score standing 33 to 26.

TAR HEEL ALL-STATE WRESTLING TEAM

First Team
Hardaway, Trinity—119 pound class.
Cromartie, Davidson—129 pound class.
Mathewson, Carolina—139 pound class.
Waters, Z., Carolina—149 pound class.
Midgette, Trinity—162 pound class.
Poindexter, Carolina—175 pound class.
Lindamood, Davidson—Unlimited class.

Second Team
Selser, Davidson—119 pound class.
Hagan, Carolina—129 pound class.
Daniels, Trinity—139 pound class.
Mays, Trinity—149 pound class.
Waters, Carolina—162 pound class.
Mathewson, Trinity—175 pound class.
Umberger, Trinity—Unlimited class.

Mrs. J. W. MacConnell gave a dinner in honor of Misses Richards and Black, recently returned from a winter abroad.

SPORTING GOODS

Wildcats Meet Colgate Team On Home Courts

Manager Staley Arranges Matches With Teams of State Colleges

Since the forces of winter are beginning to wane, much interest is being taken in the spring tennis tournament which
will be held as soon as the courts can be put in condition for play. The aspiring racqueteers of the
college have already been out limbering up and swinging the old racquet in preparation for putting up a game fight
for winner in the finals and the chance to challenge the low-ranking member of the present team for his position.
The fourth man of the present team will be decided by the elimination process. A large number of tennis players
are expected to enter the tournament. Dope points to a good team this year, although the work of Bradley, last
year’s captain and state champion, will be greatly missed. The personnel of the team that defeated Wake Forest in a
clear-cut victory last fall is the same as that of last spring, with the exception of Trotter, who stepped into
the vacancy caused by the graduation of Bradley. Captain Price, Manager Staley, Beall, and Trotter can be counted on to
deliver the goods on any fair day. Should any one of these men be ousted from his position, it is
clear that the strength of the team would be increased and that Davidson would have an exceedingly bright outlook on
the courts. With Bradley, the team last year lost only one match out of five entries before the State tournament.
The match was won by Carolina at Davidson. At the tournament, Bradley won the singles championship, and the doubles team
from Davidson reached the finals, where they were defeated by Carolina in three fast sets. The team this year has
already shown strength in its victory over Wake Forest, in which only one set out of nine sets of singles
and two of doubles, was lost. Manager Staley is offering Davidson students a treat in the match that has been
scheduled with the strong tennis aggregation from Colgate University. They will be met on the Davidson courts on April 14th,
in their annual tour of the South. Plans are trying to be arranged for a North Carolina trip for the
team in which games will be played with Wake Forest, Trinity, State, and Carolina, on their home courts. Manager Staley
is also trying to arrange a return match with State on the Davidson courts about the last of April. These
plans, however, are merely tentative and have not been definitely arranged yet. After this schedule, the team will enter the
State tournament which will be held at Raleigh during the first week in May. Though a Davidson man has emerged
victor

Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

in the singles for the past two years, it remains to be seen just how the Presbyterians will show up
in this meet. With the four entries she has to offer, though, it will take an exceptionally good tennis player
to wrest the laurels of victory from the Wildcat lair and send the Davidson net sharks home without at least
a taste of victory.

MONK YOUNGER’S TOSSERS (Continued from page 1)

fast-going inner gardener; Frank Alford, outfielder of a year’s experience and a deadly man with the big stick; Tom Marrow,
fleet-footed outfielder; Red McPherson, Varsity Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel
Building twirler from the 1922 season. There is a quantity of material from which Coach Monk will fill the vacant
places on the nine. From the Scrub team of last year, there is a wealth of promising players, and the
competition for the unclaimed positions will be spirited. The flaw in the fabric, according to present indications, is the position
behind the bat. Jim Hendrix, star of the gridiron and the cinder track, is a possible candidate for this position.
Hendrix was selected on the mythical all-state nine when he wore the uniform of Greensboro High School. Sam Summers, Hovis,
and Ed Morrison will also bid for the job. These men were prominently identified in class baseball circles last year.
Practice is too much in its infancy and the situation is so little developed that it is impractical to make
any predictions for the success of the team. The Wildcat mentor will spend a great deal of time in the
development of the sending and receiving sta-

Height 5’ 10” Weight 148
T. F. (TOM) STALEY
Bristol, Va.-Tenn.
Who Led the Wildcats in Scoring With 176 Points

The Dope Fiend
By W. F. Galloway

Congratulations, Captain Boggs. At a big banquet at the New Charlotte Hotel, Tuesday night, the 1924 quint closed another season.
Too bad we won't be back next year to see Coach Monk and Captain Sook round out the ’25 squad.
If we don't get a grandstand before 1972, at least they are hauling in the bleachers. Norman Shepard, former Wildcat
star and Carolina coach, is going into business in China. Coach Rawson took a jaunt down to the city of
Atlanta to see the C. I. G. tournament. Unfortunately, he saw Alabama lick Georgia. The sporting editor of the Durham
Sun must have had mahjong or Greek on his brain when he said that “Referee Bangle made a Bungle about
the Davidson-TrinityBingle.” Maybe, though, it was limericks or Mother Goose. Bangle never reversed a decision; he only made one: Davidson
8, Trinity 5. Congratulations, Trinity, on that Southern championship. We do wonder, though, what the V. M. I. wrestling team
thinks. There’s a chance of Carolina taking a shot at the National Basketball meet this year. It would be a
big thing for the State if the Tarheels could win. Carolina claims that Cobb has a national record on points
scored in a season. Something like 290, we hear. And then a Wake Forest alumnus up and says, says he,
that he scored well over 300 when he was a kid. Of course, it is only a question of time
before the first story will grow. We ought to be hearing from Trinity soon. If the Freshmen do as well
in baseball as in basketball, things ought to be humming in a year or two.

Why not intra-mural athletics? Inter-class, inter-dormitory, and the like. Inter-class basketball goes off O. K. Why not something else? Anybody
needs exercise. It’s a lull between the storms. Nothing much going on except the most important thing of all—training. Things
will open up in a week or two. The two most strategic points of attack on the diamond are the
pitcher and catcher positions. If these two positions are well filled, the Wildcats have every reason to expect a winning
outfit. The infield and outfield will be well covered.

CAPTAIN ELLIS ISSUES CALL (Continued from page 1)

Besides the letter men, Smith and Matthews are showing up well on the dashes, Smith and Mallery on the low
hurdles, and Parker on the 880. Williford, Selser, and Gudger, of last season’s squad, are promising material for the mile
and two-miles. Due to the fact that every meet is with a Conference team, no Freshmen will be allowed to
run in the meets. This excludes a great deal of splendid material which has just arrived at Davidson. A glance
at the following schedule will convince one that a hard program is facing Captain Streibich and his team, but under
the efficient coaching of Captain Ellis, a winning season is expected.

April 3—V. P. I., at home.
April 12—N. C. State, at home.
April 18—Clemson, at Clemson, S.C.
April 26—Washington & Lee, at Lexington, Va.
April 28—V. M. I., at Lexington, Va.

CONVENTION OF NORTH CAROLINA VOLUNTEERS (Continued from page 1)

In New York last month, they gave their reports, telling of the inspirational meetings which they attended there, where there
were outlined some of the problems of the Volunteers and some of the criticisms which have been brought against the
Volunteer movement. Sunday morning, the delegates attended the various churches of the city, where speakers of the convention addressed the
congregations. Two of the delegates at each of the churches also gave three-minute talks on Why I Am a Volunteer.
The subject of the Sunday afternoon address was Pressing Toward a Mark. Miss Webb led the open discussion which followed,
the sense of which was, Should our mission study stop with mere study of the fact that other countries are
heathen and need Christianity, or should it embrace political, industrial, and racial problems which arise. Sunday night, Mr. Wilder spoke
on Giving Yourself Completely to Christ. He told of one man in a theological seminary who, after he decided to
be a Volunteer, was asked to speak to some of his fellow students. Being something of an artist, he drew
a picture of a strong man in a boat, rowing but making no headway. The reason was shown to be
a rope by which the boat was securely fastened. Then the rope was cut and the speaker said, “Fellows, I’ve
cut the rope and now I’m ready to go.” The new president, Miss Alice Gibbon, was installed, after which the
meeting was thrown open. This proved to be the most inspirational part of the whole convention, as delegate after delegate
told what the convention had meant to him. The Davidson delegates to the convention were: Tom Barr, Mac Beall, Wiggs
Bradford, Jimmy Carr, J. M. Dew, E. C. Douglas, P. M. Dulin, Glenn Eddington, W. M. Gracey, J. Leighton Green,
Tag Guiton, Thomas Hamilton, George Hodgin, Fred Hopkins, Perrin Hudgins, Floyd Jones, Tom Jones, Herbert Love, J. D. McCluer, W.
A. McDonald, J. C. McJunkin, Malcolm McQueen, Dope Matheson, W. E. Milton, Guy Morrow, Angus McBryde, Charles Norwood, Bub Oeland,
Warren Ogden, Norman Patterson, Paul Patterson, J. R. Phipps, Harry Price, Campbell Ramsey, J. H. Register, R. D. Robertson, Paul
Story, Ben Sloan, Hugh Wells, Barclay Walthall, Henry White, Joe Walker, Ronald Wilson, M. C. Yeargan, Willard Keerans, Lawrence Beall,
and Lee McLean.

SIX NATIONAL FRATERNITIES (Continued from page 1)

A house party of this nature is not a new thing at Davidson, and, while members of the present student
body may not have participated in one, in former years some very successful parties have been held. The success depends,
of course, on the girls being present. Every courtesy within the power of the fraternities is at the disposal of
their guests. The chapters are looking forward to entertaining that particular member of the fair sex that is attached to
every non-fraternity member of the three upper classes. Sit down tonight and write her if you haven’t already done so.

There is no need here to speak of the good feeling that exists here between the non-fraternity and fraternity men.
Yet, perhaps a word should be said, too, because so little mention has been made of the situation in print.
An accurate estimate of the existing conditions can be had from the statement of a member of the Pan Hellenic
Council to the Davidsonian representative. “The reason for the many strong friendships between the fraternity and non-fraternity men that one
finds here,” he states, “can be summed up in a few words. Every man on the campus who is a
member of any chapter realizes that there are just about as many strong men in fraternities here as there are
out of them. Unfortunately, the small number of chapters on the hill and their necessarily limited personnel keep a man
out of a fraternity who, on any other campus, would be a fraternity man. Every year we see this when
men, failing to return to Davidson, enter other schools and are immediately initiated into some fraternity. The Pan Hellenic feels
that every Davidson man realizes this and that, with the program which will be worked out, the weekend can be
made a big success.”

Get your girl and be at home over at the halls on April 5th. Low lights and soft music will
be in order; also more substantial food. Don’t waste the setting.

For High Class PRINTING of every description + “‘Jam-Up’ SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard
Pub. Co. Quality Printers

THE CAMBRIDGE For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy
medium of the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button. A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT
WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT Tate-Brown Co. CHARLOTTE BROWN & McCLAIN Local Agents
