. THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924

Open Forum
(Continued from page 4)

sociology, social psychology, the world's needs and their remedies, and the temper of the times; men who can give Christianity its fullest, broadest appeal as a religion of love, and not of criticisms and dissensions. It's time to get out of the rut.

(4) And there is the majority—thoughtless and irresponsible, who prate wisely and at length about things they know nothing about; the majority that is wasting its money and its time and kicking about long French assignments and at having to go to church (of which they are members). These men are not narrow. They simply don't care. They never have their own opinions, because they don't think. Unless they change they will be the asses to bear the burdens of life in some little one-horse job. Are you in this group? No, of course, it’s the other fellow.

It is time for the Davidson student body to see where it stands. What have you got that the world will want? How many years are you going to waste before you begin to work? Get some system into your life. Do the things that will help you. Don't follow the crowd. That is the avocation of empty pates and fools. Do you think you will be able to settle down when you get out of the “terrible rut” of college life? The world is rushing, too, faster than you ever move here. Why not start working NOW? Your success in life is not going to depend on a little diploma, but on your ability—and ability means power to hold down a job—not a seat in a bull session. You must learn how to work—and very few of you know how now. The world wants men who know their subjects from the ground up. If you can get it in bull sessions and idleness—well and good. All association is educative, but a lot of education is worthless. What are you getting that is of practical value to you?

Someone has remarked lately, “If we could only see ourselves as others see us.” The magazines are full of how others see us, and they show little respect for the college man. One prominent alumnus, speaking directly of Davidson, says, “Both the student body and faculty are unpardonably lazy and they kid themselves on calling it conservative.” And then to quote Mr. Todd again: “Although a college man myself, I find I am continually wondering whether the college of today is doing what it should to enable the young man to meet the fierce competition of modern business life. Any reasonably bright boy can complete the academic course of practically any college in the country if he will study two hours a day for five days a week and loaf all summer. That is what I call it, rest cure.” And I'd like to say ditto to Mr. Todd.

Captain Morrison Has Long Record of Service
Conductor on Charlotte-Salisbury Line Has Made Host of Friends

Captain Morrison, who runs on the train from Charlotte to Salisbury, via Barber's Junction which passes through Davidson twice a day, has been in the employ of the railroad company for 44 years. He has been running on this division, known as the Atlantic, Tennessee and Ohio, during all of this time. It is no small accomplishment to follow a vocation as exacting as his and maintain the record that he has. The reason for his great popularity and his large number of friends is the kindly way he treats his passengers, especially the women and children.

Until recently Captain Morrison was in charge of one of the trains operating between Charlotte and Taylorsville. But on account of his health, he now makes the shorter run from Charlotte to Salisbury. Captain Morrison has been with the railroad since 1880, and in the 44 years that he has been going back and forth through this section he has made hundreds of friends. Many of the people living along this line he has known since they were children. He is not so young in body as he used to be but his genial and likable spirit remains unchanged. He always has a nod and a smile for the people who ride to and from their homes on the train. Almost any time you are on his train you will see Captain Morrison going through the train picking up the newspapers that have been left in the seats. He gathers up these papers and throws them off at his friends’ houses as he passes. The older students at Davidson have all come to know Captain Morrison and they remember the time when he used to run on the 9:18. When he came through the car collecting the tickets for Jaybirdsville, as he called Davidson, he would always have a good joke.

Picture Management Announces Bookings
Students Will See Best of Film Stories This Spring

Clarence Budington Kelland’s famous story, Brothers Under the Skin, has been made into a film masterpiece by Goldwyn Pictures, and the Davidson student body will be given the opportunity of seeing this movie next Saturday night. The picture follows closely the narrative as written by Mr. Kelland, whose ability as an author of entertaining short stories is well known. It promises to be in the class of the best pictures shown at Davidson this year.

One of the really big pictures of the year is The Eternal City, adapted from the story of that name by Sir Hall Caine. From all reports of this picture, it seems that it furnishes entertainment par excellence, and that’s what everyone likes in moving pictures these days. It is a First National production directed by George Fitzmaurice, and numbering among the cast of stars, Barbara La Marr, Bert Lytell, and Lionel Barrymore. It would be hard to find the sort of theatre-goer who would class it as anything but clean pictorial entertainment, presented with scenes of wondrous beauty, and with a wealth of detail which gives constant evidence of careful and conscientious study of scenes and customs of the country in which the locale of the story is laid. The picture was filmed in Rome, and the director has overlooked no opportunity to inject into it interesting episodes of the recent history-making events which have transpired in Italy. Mussolini and his Fascisti, and even the Italian king are called upon to do their parts in adding interest to the picture. It will be shown here at an early date in March.

Buster Keaton is coming soon with his second feature-length comedy, Our Hospitality, and if you don't believe it throws his Three Ages into the shade, you'll just have to come see it. The story concerns the troubles of the last of the McKays when he returns to his old home in Kentucky and makes the technical mistake of falling in love with the beautiful daughter of the house of Canfield, which family has wiped out the McKays in their long-standing feud. The many serious complications he gets into and the uproariously funny way he gets out of them...for the students. Captain Morrison was born in Statesville, in 1863 and has lived all of his life here. If visions do not amount to something here and now, they are all invalid. If they do, they will make your jawbones ache with laughter. Keaton is supported by his wife, Natalie Talmadge Keaton, in this picture, while Buster Keaton, II, one year old, also appears in the cast. Coming March 8.

Other coming attractions include: The Social Code and In Search of a Thrill, with Viola Dana. Little Old New York, starring Marion Davies, the beautiful little lady who played the leading part in When Knighthood Was in Flower. The Love Piker, with a story by Frank R. Adams. Why Worry, Harold Lloyd's latest. When a Man's a Man, taken from Harold Bell Wright's famous novel of that name. The Love Master, starring Strongheart, the most wonderful dog actor in pictures today. Anita Stewart. The picture this week: Brothers Under the Skin, with a two-reel comedy, The Green Cat, added. Time, 7:15. Admission, 15c for students; others, 25c. “Bring a chair.”

DR. RICHARDS SPEAKS (Continued from page 1)

never boned before. If there is not an increase in study, the vision is a failure.” Speaking for results of the visions of the meeting, he demanded a greater regularity in the lives of the student body. He challenged those who had seen the need to rid the campus of certain irregularities and the need of certain good features to begin work to bring about those changes for the good of the school. He added a challenge to keep the eyes to the present and not to look further, since each vision is an order to immediate service. In closing, Dr. Richards said, “If the visions do not help us now, they will not help us in the future. Visions fade. Even Paul, the apostle, could not carry his vision but he could carry the memory of it. We can all do that and in doing it, we can sit down before our vision to look over and enjoy it. Go to it in your life on Davidson campus, knowing that in you just now, the Spirit of God makes you the best student on the campus.”

WILDCAT QUINT LOSES (Continued from page 1)

The whole gang was running wild now and was beginning to score heavily until stopped by numerous fouls which gave the State team a lead. McGowan and Johnston, for State, caged three goals each from the floor while Dickens and Beatty also helped the cause along, by fouls and field goals. During the second half, Spec made most of his markers for the Wildcats, with Laird also assisting his running mate. Two field goals ended the game with the score tied exactly at 32 and 32. By mutual consent, the game was lengthened out five minutes. Davidson secured a goal, counting one tally but State came back and ran up a field goal, then another, a foul, and another field goal before the Presbyterians could stop them. The game ended with the score 30-33 in favor of the Statesmen.

Line-up and summary:
Davidson Staley (2) N.C. State -- Dickens (7)
Left Forward Wray (C) (6)
Right Forward Laird (9) Davis (C)
Center Correll (1) McConnell (12) Beatty
Right Guard SMHS (2) Wallis
Left Guard

Substitutions: Davidson, State, McGowan for Correll, Long and Wallis for Beatty, Johnson for Wallis. Field Goals: Davidson—Staley 1, Laird 3, Davis 3, McConnell 6; N. C. State—Dickens 3, Wray 2, McGowan 4, Long 4, Johnston 3. Foul Goals: Davidson—Laird 1, McConnell 2, Boggs 2; State—Dickens 1, Wray 1, Correll 1, McGowan 1, Long 1, Johnston 1. Referee: Doak (Guilford).

Guilford Game

J. G. Frazier, acclaimed by many to be the best basketball player in the state, proved to be the Jonah to Davidson's hope in the tussle with Guilford, in the last game of the week's trip. Frazier rang up a total of 26 points for his team, consisting of ten field goals, and foul goals; his markers being more than the entire Davidson score. He was the outstanding star of the game with Cummings as guard playing good ball with three long field goals and a tight game at guard. Laird led the field for Davidson, scoring four field and one free goal. Tom Staley also found the basket an easy mark with six caged shots, half of them being for two points each. Nappy Davis did good defensive work at center and scored five points for his side. Dan Mallory did good work in this game as a substitute. Davidson scored first with a field goal by Laird, then the tables were turned by J. G. Frazier who marked up two points. The score stood thus for several minutes, then the Quakers spurted ahead and remained there until the half was over, leading 15 to 13. The second half witnessed the performance of Frazier who caged seven field and two foul goals. The game ended with the score 37-25.

Line-up and summary:
Davidson Guilford
Staley (9) Forward J. W. Frazier (1)
Right Forward Laird (9) J. G. Frazier (20)
Left Forward Davis (6) Tew
Center McConnell Cummings (6)
Right Guard Boggs (2) Thomas
Left Guard Smith Mallory

Substitutions: Guilford—Rufus for J. W. Frazier; Davidson—Sapp for Davis, Sapp for McConnell. Field Goals: Guilford—J. G. Frazier 11, Cummings 3, Rufus 1, Smith 2. Davidson—Staley 3, Laird 4, Davis 2, Boggs 1. Foul Goals: J. W. Frazier 1, J. G. Frazier 5. Referee: Stuart.

Mrs. Frazer Hood returned Friday from a most pleasant visit to Porto Rico and other Southern points of interest.

DAVIDSONIAN OCCUPIES NEW WORKING QUARTERS

About two weeks ago the Davidsonian moved into their new quarters in the rear of the building occupied by the fire apparatus. A long-felt need has been filled and the Davidsonian has its own office. Formerly the work of the staff, especially that of the circulation department, had to be done anywhere the laborers could find a place, and the result was quite a little inconvenience. Up until the time that they moved into their office, the work was done in one of the laboratory rooms in the basement of the Physics building.

The room is nicely fitted for its purpose. It is steam-heated, electrically lighted, and has several large windows. The walls are beaver-boarded. A sufficient number of tables and shelves have been provided for the use of the circulation department. Although the room is comparatively small it is large enough for its purpose and much better work can be done. The Davidsonian now has its own office and is keeping up with other college papers in this respect.

CAROLINA’S LEADING CLEANERS and DYERS
“PARTICULAR WORK FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE”
AMERICAN DRY CLEANING CO.
1406-08 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
K. S. McALPIN College Representative

Have you ordered your Ford?

Last year 350,000 buyers waited for delivery. Insure yourself against delay this spring by placing your order for a Ford Car now. See the Nearest Authorized Ford Dealer.