THEDAV Vol. XI = ‘FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 14, 1924 No. 18

World’s Greatest. Eva Billy Sunday Pays Visit to Students of Davidson

Speaks to College Men and Village People in Presbyterian Church

EDUCATION IS HIS TOPIC

Advises That World Owes No Man a Living

The noted evangelist, Billy Sunday, addressed an enthusiastic audience in the Davidson Presbyterian Church, Friday morning, February 8th. Students, school
children, townspeople, and visitors crowded into the building to hear a speech brief and pointed and characteristic of Billy Sunday
in its every phase. It was shorter than his usual sermons but lacking in quality, and thoughts were hurled by
the speaker with his customary speed and directness.

Mr. Sunday gave the audience to understand at the beginning that he had come to speak to the students and
that the old folks might listen if they pleased. Education, its true meaning and the warped ideas concerning it, might
be called the theme of his address. It is not alone to put facts into our minds that we come
to college, he said, but to put in determination, “to take a nonentity and to make a man of power.”
The education that fails to make a better man is a failure. There are two kinds of educations: “The one
you give yourself, and the one you learn from others. There is much in books absolutely indispensable, and there is
much in books absolutely worthless.” It is for us to do our best where we are, not waiting for the
great occasion to arise before we bestir ourselves. Idleness is the curse of the majority and from it men become
derelicts, with no aim in life and no ability for life. “I am a part of all that I have
met. We are shown up by our acts, our conversations, and by our company. We find those men who ‘don’t
know Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence.’” He emphasized that “what contributes to our happiness and success is not
to be despised.” And it is that determination not (Continued on page 5)

Debate Preliminary Will R-.» Varsity Material

Trinity and Emory Will Be Spring Forensic Opponents

The preliminaries for the two debates this spring, the first with Emory and the second with Trinity, will be held
on Friday, February 29th. The query is the same for both debates: “Resolved; That France is Justified in her occupation
of the Ruhr?” The team to debate Trinity will be composed of three men, while the one to meet Emory
will have only two. In the preliminaries, the five best men will be chosen, and the two teams will be
arranged from these men.

The debate with Trinity will be held at that place on August 4th. The sides have not been chosen, but
it is hoped that Davidson will have the negative side. The meet with Emory will be on the 11th of
April. The place has not been named, but will probably be Agnes Scott College. Davidson will uphold the affirmative side
in this debate. The query for these debates is a live one, and one that admits of plenty of argument
on both sides. Emory and Trinity argue the same question at about the same time, so there will be a
triangular meet. The Wildcat forensic artists have twice defeated Trinity on the home floor within the past year, and it
is hoped that they will repeat in the enemy’s territory this spring. Davidson has not met Emory for several years.
Although neither of these debates will be staged here, there will be a freshman debate on the hill sometime during
the spring.

Seated, from left to right: R. ‘29. Standing: E. I. Houghton, '22; M. Cochran, ex-'24, Ex. Willis R, Booth, ex-'23;
R. ngelist Scorns Short Davidson Club—Louisville Seminary I. J. G. Tucker, ex-'23; J. L. McLeod, '23; D. A. Spragins, '23;
W. Groves, Taylor, Currie, Red. and Blackers Drop One to Blue Devils in Queen City But Turn Over Sheet and
Whip Guilford, Lenoir, and State

New Audit Board Reviews Books of All Publications

The Student Council, at a recent meeting, appointed an audit board to supervise the accounts of all student organizations, and
thus brought back into use a previously neglected statute of the Student Body Constitution. Warren Cox was chosen to head
the board and already effects of the existence of such a unit are being noticed. The board will have control
of all student organization books, will prescribe the rules of accounting and make regular audits of the separate systems. The
Davidsonian, Quips and Cranks, The Davidson College Magazine, and the Student Store are the present organizations under the supervision of
the board. Already the accounts of these organizations have been gone over and changes in the methods of accounting have
been recommended in several instances. The board's further duty is to audit the books of these organizations at regular intervals
to see that they are kept up to the mark and to keep either debits or credits from remaining on
the books too long. It is hoped that the audit board will have a salutary effect on the various organizations
and that the efficiency of same will be raised. The board will have the authority to recommend operating plans based
on the amount of business a correct audit of the books show and in this manner the whole working plan
of the organization will be benefited. The Student Council is to be commended for its action in bringing this board
into being.

FRESH-SOPH DEBATE WILL BE HELD EARLY IN MARCH

The subject for the Fresh-Soph debates this spring is: Resolved, That the United States should adopt the Bok Peace Plan.
The preliminaries for selecting the society teams will be held during the first week of March, and the inter-society preliminaries
will come off in the following week. The date has not been fixed for the finals, but will probably be
before the last of March. It is hoped that each society will select its team and get its preliminaries off
in time so that the debate will not drag along until late in the spring as it did last year.

Four Games in Six Days

Spanish Athletes is Menu for Younger Men

Tom Staley Leads Quint in Scoring and Shows Brilliant Floor Work

The scrapping Davidson Wildcats have a record to be proud of as the result of their three out of four
games taken during the last week. Falling under the attack of the Trinity Blue Devils by a score of 30-40,
they came back strong and trounced all contenders appearing on the home court. The Florida and the Wolf from State
all succumbed to the withering attack of the Coach Younger's basket tossers. High hopes are held for the rest of
the season with such a record.Behind. Trinity Game

The Davidson Wildcats failed to get their bearings on the Charlotte Auditorium floor last Tuesday night and suffered defeat at
the hands of Trinity's Blue Devils, 40 to 30. Campus tradition has it that Trinity is Davidson’s Jonah. At any
rate, the Red and Black quint got started on the wrong foot and allowed Trinity in the first half of
the game to pile up a one-sided score of 22 to 11. Spikes and Crute, for the Blue Devils, were
in large measure responsible, for they shot the sphere from every conceivable position which brought rounds of applause even from
the Davidson supporters. Teamwork was poor in this period on the part of the Wildcats, and bad passing let slip
many an opportunity to score.

In the second frame, the fighting spirit of the Wildcats was up, however. Trinity could not protect her goal from
the offensive drive of Coach Younger’s proteges, and the scoring for Davidson in this period was one point more than
Trinity’s mark-up. Staley led the scoring, playing a beautiful game at forward, and four snarling Wildcats worked with him in
excellent cooperation to feed the basket. It was impossible to overcome the lead gained by Trinity in the first half,
and the Blue Devils nosed out 10 points ahead. The work of Sapp at running guard and Boggs at the
stationary defensive position featured for Davidson, with Staley performing in a stellar manner at forward.

The line-up:
Davidson (30) Staley (12) Position Trinity (40)
Simpson (2) Right forward
(Continued on page 8)

Defend Catalonia

An item of interest to the entire student body, and of special interest to the students of Spanish, is the
Spanish debate to be waged between Davidson and the University of North Carolina, in Shearer Hall. The date for the
debate had not been definitely decided when the Davidsonian went to press, but it will be held near April 15th,
the date to be decided within a few days. Preliminaries for the debate will be held during the latter part
of March. A number of Spanish students will enter the preliminaries.

This debate, the plans for which were formulated by Professor Fleagle, is the first of its kind in the United
States as far as is known. The entire exercises of the evening, according to a prominent member of El Club
Español, will be conducted in Spanish. The query, which has been selected by the contestants, is, Resolved, That Catalonia Should
Be Given Home Rule. Catalonia, it will be interesting to note, is the mining district of Spain, similar to the
Ruhr district of Germany. Barcelona, the principal city of Catalonia, is the breeding place of Bolshevism in Spain. The district
is in revolution at present and is proving to be the source of no little trouble to Spain. Catalonia is
at present under the military dictatorship of Primo de Rivera, which office he has held for the past several months.
The question is a live one, and heated arguments will doubtless be produced by both sides. The debate is being
fostered at Davidson by El Club Español, which has for its officers J. A. Thompson, president; A. T. Rowe, vice-president;
and Al Simpson, secretary. Davidson will uphold the affirmative of the question.

Davidson has been assisting several nearby towns in launching their mission study classes. Dr. and Mrs. Lingle, Mrs. A. Currie,
and Dr. Arbuckle have spoken in Statesville, Mooresville, Concord, and Barium Springs.

The Book Lovers’ Club will meet with Miss Cornelia Shaw Friday afternoon. Mrs. Withers will have charge of the program.

Carolina Grapplers Scrap Hard for Two-Point Win

New Rules Account for Lowest Score in Davidson Mat History

CROMARTIE WINS ON TIME

Captain Lindamood Enters Heavyweight Class

Five hundred students along with many of the townspeople and girls who were spending the weekend at Davidson, witnessed Davidson's
intercollegiate wrestling meet against Carolina, last Saturday night. The teams were well matched and the match went fast, Carolina winning
over Davidson by the margin of a fall over a time decision. The final score was five to three. Ex-Captain
Cromartie won his match on time over Hagan, of Carolina, for Davidson's only score of the meet. In the next
match, Matheson, of Carolina, secured a fall over P. N. Patterson, which gave Carolina a lead of two points. They
maintained this lead throughout the meet.

Cromartie, representing Davidson for his third year, was the hero of the night. Wrestling under the handicap of a wrenched
shoulder that had kept him off the mat for 11 days, he nevertheless showed the true Wildcat never-quit spirit and
held his man on the mat for the three minutes required to win the match. The meet was conducted under
the new collegiate wrestling rules, allowing 10 minutes to the match with no extra periods. A three-minute consecutive time advantage
was required for a win with a one-minute excess over the opponent.

The meet opened with a match in the 115-pound class between Schwartz, of Carolina, and Selser, of Davidson. Neither man
was able to get his man to the mat within the first seven minutes and the match was called a
draw. In the 125-pound class, Cromartie, of Davidson, forced Hagan, Carolina star, to the mat in the first few minutes
of the match.

(Continued on page 8)

European Traveler Speaks of Personal Experiences

James Somerville Pictures Chaos Existing in European States

Mr. James Somerville, representing the World's Student Federation, spoke at the vesper service of the “Y,” Sunday, February 10th. Lee
McLean, vice-president of the “Y,” introduced the speaker, stating that from experience of several years in European relief work Mr.
Somerville was well acquainted with conditions in European countries. His message concerned the present educational conditions in Europe, especially Russia.

“The fight is on,” said Mr. Somerville in opening his address, referring to the song which had been sung, “but
the fight isn't always on with Christian soldiers in Europe. The colors are not always streaming. It is a hard
fight.” He continued by giving a vivid picture of the living conditions among the people of Europe, stating that there
is not much joy for them and that life is mostly a struggle to make ends meet. He said that
the present condition in Europe is one of extreme poverty, and gave some striking illustrations bearing out his statements. There
were two fundamental reasons pointed out as responsible for the present condition, the first being the depreciation of currency, and
the second the chaos existing in industry resulting in unemployment. In Russia particularly there is all the chaos of revolution
in addition to these other things. He pictured the Russian famine of 1921.

(Continued on page 5)
