THE DAVIDSONIAN

GOODBYE WRESTLING BASKETBALL, HELLO TRACK BASEBALL

Red and Black Freshmen Finish Successful Year
Hewlett and Anderson Lead Team in Scoring

The Davidson Freshmen finished their 1924 season successfully, having won nine and lost two games. This being the first Freshman
basketball team that the college has had, its progress was watched with interest and everyone feels satisfied with this year’s
showing. Although there was some doubt in a few minds as to whether a Freshman team would be a liability
or not, the receipts of this season have comfortably covered all the expenses incurred. The scores of the games are
as follows:

Davidson 62 Greensboro High 18
Davidson 28 Trinity 14
Davidson 21 Mooresville High 20
Davidson 35 Oak Ridge 23
Davidson 15 Trinity 28
Davidson 21 Carolina 30
Davidson 34 State 16
Davidson 41 Wofford 18
Davidson 47 Mooresville High 30

Total Davidson 304 197

Captain Hewlett leads in points scored with 91. Anderson comes a close second with 90. The other men scored as
follows: Sapp, 57; Hudgins, 27; Faucette, 16; Simpson, 13; Goodykoontz, 5; Beall, 3; and Winn, 2.

Red and Black Cagers End Season With Wins
Belmont and Statesville Go Down Before Wildcats

Coach Younger’s Red and Black quint wound up its 1923 season by defeating Belmont and Statesville.

Belmont Game

The Davidson Wildcats, playing their next to the last game of the basketball season Monday night, February 25th, in Belmont,
defeated the snappy aggregation from that city, the score being 33 to 28. The Belmont defenders got off to a
good start, outplaying the Davidson boys in the first half, which ended 14-10 in their favor. This half was slow
and void of interest, but Coach Monk sent the Wildcats back fighting mad, and business began to pick up for
the Davidson contenders in the second half. Davidson made 23 points during this period, while Belmont was chalking up 14,
the final score ending 33-28 in the Wildcats’ favor. Staley played a better game in this contest than he had
for several games past, making 16 points, while Laird was a runner-up with eight. The Belmont players divided honors, T.
Leper making eight points, while Abernathy made six and P. Leper made seven.

Belmont (28) Davidson (33)
T. Leper (8) Staley (16) Position: Right forward
Abernathy (6) Laird (8) Position: Left forward
P. Leper (7) Davis Position: Center
West (2) McConnell (4) Position: Right guard
Hall (3) Boggs (3) Position: Left guard

Substitutes—Davidson, Sapp (2) for McConnell. Referee: Hengeveld.

Statesville Game

Davidson’s cage season ended last Thursday night with a decisive victory over the Statesville Athletic Association, 44 to 13. Playing
on their home floor, the Wildcats dazzled Statesville with a brilliant display of teamwork, and hit the basket with unerring
accuracy. Led by Staley, who piled up 16 points to his credit, the Red and Black machine gained an early
lead, and the outcome was never in doubt after a few minutes of play. The first half ended with the
scoreboard reading 22 to 10. For the Association quint, the work of Hartness and Sipley was outstanding. Hartness scored six
markers and Sipley four, and both played an excellent game on defense. Statesville fought stubbornly, and at times showed flashes
of splendid teamwork, but failed to hit the basket when opportunity was presented.

The line-up:
Davidson (44) Statesville (13)
Staley (16) Position: Right forward Hartness (6)
Laird (10) Position: Left forward Sipley (4)
Davis (6) Position: Center Wall (2)
McConnell (8) Position: Right guard Morrison
Boggs (3) Position: Left guard Wallace (1)

Substitutes—Davidson: Beall (2) for Laird; Mallery (4) for Davis; Sapp (5) for McConnell. Statesville: Peeler for Morrison; Abernathy for Peeler.
Referee: Rawson.

COACH MONK’S PICK
Forwards: Cobb, of Carolina; J. G. Frazier, of Guilford.
Center: Carmichael, of Carolina.
Guards: McDonald, of Carolina; Boggs, of Davidson.

The Dope Fiend
By W. F. Galloway

The Freshmen romp off with the state championship. Sounds good for the years to come. The Court of Control isn’t
functioning much if they can’t hold the Freshmen down. The Freshmen ran up 304 points—not bad for the games they
played. V. M. I., 21; Davidson, 0, sounds enough, but the V. M. I. beat Army. It was the defeat
at Carolina that hurt bad. Carolina looks like they are going good in Atlanta. By the time the old paper
rolls off the press they will have either won or lost. Cobb, of Carolina, is the big gun. How does
292 this year to date sound—72 were fouls and 110 field goals. Sounds good. Wake Forest has 110 men out
for baseball. The Wildcats don’t usually need but nine. “T. F.” Staley leads off the team in scoring—176 points. Time
to pull out the tennis rackets, too. Reports are that a meet with Colgate is on tap for the hill.
“Jethro” Koenig is back on the hill inTime to limber up for track. Koenig has been home for a rest
cure. Too bad the State basketball meet fell through. D. Benton Wharton asked us to announce that Smithfield beat New
Bern 24-12. It is rather unusual. It's good-bye basketball, so long wrestling, how-de-do baseball, hello track, good morning tennis.

After the game Friday night between the Concord and Davidson girls, a banquet was served at Mrs. Shelton’s for the
two teams. The members of the Davidson freshman team were also the guests of Mrs. Shelton.

Freshmen Win Final Games By Wide Margins
Wofford and Mooresville Fall Before Yearling Onslaught

Coach Rawson’s Wildkittens wound up their schedule last week, winning the final contests from the Wofford Fresh and Mooresville High
by top-heavy scores.

Wofford Game
Last Friday night the Davidson Freshman team snowed the Wofford Freshmen under to the tune of 41-18, in a somewhat
slow and listless game. During the first half everything was Davidson, but during the last part of the second half
the visitors picked up as they became better accustomed to the floor and Lady Luck smiled for a time on
their efforts to cage the ball. The result of the game was never in doubt, Davidson seeming to score almost
at will. Davidson’s offense was working to perfection and their capable pair of guards held the scoring of the opposing
team down very well. Anderson was the best player for Davidson, as high-score man contributing 21 points to the victory,
and playing a fine floor game. Also, Simpson did some stellar work at guard for the home team. For Wofford,
the honors go to Habel, captain, playing at forward.

Mooresville Game
Monday night the Davidson Freshman team won over Mooresville High School, 47 to 30. The game was played at Mooresville
and was characterized throughout by fast, speedy playing. The Davidson team led by a small score in the first half,
but gained a decided advantage in the last period. Sapp was high-point man for Davidson, but both Simpson and Anderson
showed good work. Hudgins at center played a reliable game, although not scoring but twice. For Mooresville, Captain Hartness showed
good form as well as Evans and Mills.

INFIRMARY INMATES
The following men were in the infirmary last week: Coach Tilson, W. M. Lemly, R. A. Mitchell, E. T. Buck,
A. T. Slaymaker, W. B. Kiser, B. Y. Pitts, L. D. Elkins, G. W. Smith, J. G. Gallant, H. M.
Wells, F. R. Montgomery, A. S. Farnsworth, E. A. West, J. B. Webb, J. A. King, H. H. Kornegay, W.
S. Hodgin, T. M. Neel, A. W. Bachman, W. H. Branch, D. P. Clifford, and J. T. DeArmon.

What is your verdict? When you have tried Williams Shaving Cream with your new Hinge-Cap, the heavier, faster-working Williams lather,
the fact that Williams lubricates the skin, the fine condition of your face after the shave, these qualities will make
men stick to Williams as faithfully as the Hinge-Cap sticks to the tube. As regards the Hinge-Cap, here is an
offer we make: $250 in Prizes

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following
prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes,
$5 each. Any identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each.
Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of
slogans but write on one side of paper only, putting name, address, and class at top of each sheet. Address
letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

WILDCAT QUINT WINS
(Continued from page 1)

the team well. He was ever fighting and accounted for 65 of the Davidson points. Boggs, one of the best
guards in the state, only shot 30 points, but his guarding cut off many sure shots by opposing forwards and
prevented several victories being turned into defeats. McConnell and Sapp divided honors for the position of running guard; the former
showing up exceptionally well in his second year of basketball at Davidson, and caged 55 points; the latter found the
ring for 56 tallies. Beall, Mallory, and Hewlett divided the remaining 23 points.

The scores for the year, as the games were played, are:
Davidson Concord Y 6
Davidson Charlotte Y 26
Davidson Statesville A. C. 14
Davidson North Carolina 37
Davidson Belmont Am. Leg. 28
Davidson 33
Guilford 23
Davidson 30
Trinity 40
Davidson 34
U. of Florida 22
Davidson 37
Lenoir 21
Davidson 33
Catawba 13
Davidson South Carolina 29
Davidson Wake Forest 32
Davidson Charlotte Y 37
Davidson Wake Forest 35
Davidson N. C. State 39
Davidson Guilford 37
Belmont Am. Leg. 28
Statesville A. C. 13
Davidson

Miss Sophie Richards, who is a student at Converse College, spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C.
M. Richards.

ANNOUNCEMENT
The Old Stand Open Once Again
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N.C.

Central Cafeteria
"On the Square"
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building
