THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

More Truth Than Bull!
When a “rat” we take it all,
When a “soph” we give it all.
When a junior we watch it all,
And when a senior we say, “What a fool I’ve been.”—Ex.

VAUDEVILLE - MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

INFLUENZA
As a preventive melt and inhale Vicks night and morning. Apply up nostrils before mingling with crowds. If feverish, call
a doctor at once.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
College Barbers—Let Us Prove It

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Mr. Van Sant has seen fit to enliven the campus by means of high board fences that present all appearances
of a well-groomed stockyard. We didn’t know before that our bull was in danger of becoming unloosed.

News Item—Stou Montgomery is writing a book on “Girth Control.”

Fresh Jones (7:30 a.m.)—“Get up Popsy. You know it's the early bird that catches the worm.”
Popsy Hunt (sleepily)—“Let ‘em catch ‘em. I'm not hungry.”

D. B. Walthall is out for track. He retrieves the shot. “Duke” has nothing on “Chick” McCrary when it comes
to track. “Chick” went out for “exercise” and didn't even place.

Ted Jones—“What would you do for falling hair?”
Kid Lyerly—“Jump out of the way.”

Twenty years from now we may expect to see the following:
“Professor ‘Speedy’ Carr, D.D., P.D.Q., B.V.D., who has charge of the collection of cab horses’ skulls in the Mooresville Museum,
addressed the Davidson student body on ‘Looking backward 20,000,000 years, or, why the Walrus never shaves.’ It is a startling
fact, says Professor Carr, that a Polar Bear doesn’t know the difference between a whisk broom and a billiard ball.
‘Furthermore,’ said he, ‘the great explorer, Eric Meathall, of New Zealand, discovered that it is next to impossible to boil
an onion on an iceberg. We must not overload the tremendous weight this scientific fact has on our daily lives.’
In conclusion, Professor Carr gave a short talk on the life and habits of the grub worm.

On next Monday our distinguished visitor will address the students of the University for the mentally mildewed, taking for his
subject, ‘The wonders of the wheelbarrow speedometer.’ It is rumored that Professor Carr will also relate some of his famous
duels with McAlpine, the boy ten darkest Africa.”

“Seen Alky?”
“Alky Jes? Nox Alshol.”
“Have you seen him, Lena?”
“Lena who?”
“Lena Genster.”

She—“I don’t know you from Adam.”
He—“You oughta—I’m dressed different.”

Who Was Shot and Who Was Not?
“A duel was lately fought by Alexander Shott and John S. Nott. Nott was shot and Shott was not. In
this case it was better to be Shott than Nott. There was a rumor that Nott was not shot, but
Shott avows that he was not, which proves either that the shot Shott shot at Nott was not shot, or
that Nott was shot notwithstanding. It may be made to appear on trial that the shot Shott shot shot Nott,
or, as accidents with firearms are frequent, it may be possible that the shot Shott shot shot Shott himself when
the whole affair would resolve itself into its original element, and Shott would be shot and Nott would be not.
Some folks think, however, that the shot Shott shot, shot, not Shott, but Nott. Can you tell who was shot?”

“There’s something in that,” said the detective as he stuck his head in the cuspidor.

At the next Glee Club Concert Ted Jones will sing that pathetic old ballad entitled, “Will Spearmint keep its flavor
on the bedpost over night.” Bill McClean will accompany him on the Jews Harp and later on in the performance
will gargle the latest ditty, “Since father bought some scissors the bed sheets last longer.”

Warren Cox—“Why do they call Arbuthnot ‘necessity’ on Law class?”
Jim Patton—“Because ‘necessity knows no law.’”

One of the best ways we know of to keep from falling in love is to fall in a river.

The other day Sook Boggs saw a sign in front of a cafe which read, “Everything on the menu for
25 cents.” He went in and received—hash.

If I might hold that hand again,
Clasped lovingly in mine
I'd little care what others thought
That hand I held Lang Syne.
Ah ’twas so warm and soft,
Soft—never was a softer thing,
I'd give the world to hold it now—
Ace, ten, Jack, Queen and King.

Sot—“Let’s go see the covered wagon.”
Soak—“Can’t, we're broke.”
Sot—“Oh that’s all right, I know the driver.”

Vic Brown—“Here waiter! I ordered an egg sandwich and you brought me a chicken sandwich.”
Waiter—“Yes sir, I'm sorry, but I was a bit late in calling your order.”

Prof. (on Fresh Bible)—“Give me a Bible quotation.”
Fresh Kuykendall—“Judas went and hanged himself.”
Prof—“Now give me another.”
Kuykendall—“Go thou and do likewise.”things the old maids think are) what the flappers do.

went out,

GLEE CLUB MAKES HIT AT LENOIR WITH JAZZ BAND

The Davidson College Glee Club, which has been giving splendid performances during the past year, went to Lenoir last Saturday
night. This performance is reported the best performance of the year. They made the trip in cars, returning the same
night. This was the last performance of the year that was scheduled, except for Junior Speaking. Lenoir entertained the members
of the club highly. A good many of the boys were entertained in the homes of some of the town
people. The program was somewhat crippled by two of the most important members of the Symphony Orchestra being absent. However,
the Dixie Novelty Seven came to the rescue and lived up to their reputation of always delighting the audience. This
was used in several cases to fill in place of the Symphony Orchestra. Liston Elkins sang several songs, playing his
own accompaniment on the guitar. The audience received him well. In spite of the bad weather, the house was full.
Davenport College was well represented and also the town people turned out well. Davidson men always enjoy going to Lenoir
because they are so well received.

(Continued from page 2)

Summary: Two-base hits: Johnson, Marrow, Whisonhunt. Sacrifice hits: Covington, Clemmer, H., Deaton, Jones (2). Stolen bases: Boggs, Deaton, Gresham. Left
on bases: Davidson 6; Lenoir 13. Double plays: Potts to Johnson to Smith; Hawn to Deaton. Base on balls: Laird
3, Phillips 1. Struck out by Laird 4, by Phillips 7. Hit by pitched ball: Clemmer, R., by Potts. Hits
apportioned: Off Laird 8 in 8 innings; off Potts 2 in 1 inning. Time of game: Two hours. Umpire: Hengeveld.

LENOIR WHIPS WILDCATS

Kappa Alpha announces the pledging of T. T. Jones, J. S. McRae, and W. F. Taylor of the Freshman class.

The Question Box

Dear Uncle Bud,
I am afraid that I don’t drink enough water, as I drink only a quart a day. What can I
do so that I will be able to hold a lot?
Buffalo McKinnon.

Dear Mr. McKinnon,
I would suggest that you eat two or three sponge cakes as I am told that they have a remarkable
affinity for the fluid of life.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Question Box,
As I am deeply interested in the study of bugology, biology, and such, I would like to know your views
on this question. How can black cows eat green grass and give white milk? Isn’t that strange?
Bevo Davis.

Dear Bevo,
It is strange that black cows give white milk, but so do udder cows.
Your scientific Unk.

Dear Uncle Buddie,
Old chappie, my Mirthful Melody Men are craving a new song hit and since Wattie McCain has gone out of
the business we haven't a thing new to warble. What would you suggest?
Teddie Jones.

Dear Ted,
Have you heard that new song hit called “Umpha?” It's a bubbling good song. The first line goes, “Umpha ever
blowing bubbles.” Your men ought to be able to spurt this out pretty fine.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Question B.,
I should like to know how long girls should be courted?
Crown Prince.

Dear Crown Prince,
Just the same as short ones.
The Old Man.

Dear Unk,
What is the most bloodthirsty tale you ever heard?
Hardboiled Lee McLean.

Dear Lee,
The worst I ever heard is about Jerry Fenton. He went to a restaurant the other night with his girl,
and because he had to wait for service a minute, said, “I could get that waiter’s ear.” Evidently, he was
terribly bloodthirsty or hungry. But that is not all. When they walked out of the place, they ran across a
Salvation Army lass (of about fifty winters). Jerry’s girl asked her what her business was. She replied, “My mission is
saving men.” Whereupon Jerry's fair companion said, “Well, save one for me then.”
The Q. B.

Dear Uncle,
What is your definition of puppy love?
Sister Sloan.

Dear Sister,
Dogging a girl's footsteps.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Question Box,
What is your idea of perpetual motion?
Johnny Parish.

Dear John,
Dick McMillan’s swelling breast as he stands before a mirror.
Your Uncle Bud.

Dear Mr. Question Box,
I am studying to be an accounting expert. I should like to know when the first loose-leaf system was used.
Jim Carr.

Dear Jimmie,
The first loose-leaf system was used many years ago by Eve in the Garden of Eden.
The Question Box.

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal

A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a l-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well. Good for teeth, breath, and digestion. Makes the next
cigar taste better.

Purity Package

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON
DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
