2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1924

WELCOME SUPPORT THE MONK FETZERS AND TEX

Seniors Quint Smothered

The Kick-Off

STANDING CLASS BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT

Under Powerful Attack Sophomore Five Continues March to Victory Over Other Quints, Winning 46-10

Today a son of Davidson returns to his alma mater. Great as have been the athletic heroes of Davidson, the name of William McK. Fetzer stands among the foremost. As a good player, as a successful coach, but ever as a son of Davidson he brings his North Carolina University team back to play the best Davidson team of years. Bob Fetzer, his brother, and a Davidson athlete, is associated with him.

Their return is unique, history-making.

With Captain Anderson on the warpath again the Soph steam-roller buried the Senior basketball quint under an avalanche of brilliant basketing last Tuesday night, to the count of 46-10—the most crushing defeat of the present season. By this victory the Sophs ran their total to five straight wins and no losses.

Before the Seniors could organize their defense their opponents had gained a safe lead which was never threatened. In the second half the '27 boys launched the most dazzling offensive of the year and literally swept all opposition. Every man on the Soph aggregation played a fast game; Anderson, Faucette, and Goodykoontz all basketed brilliantly.

Seniors (10) Position Sophs (46)
Lindley (2) Right forward Faucette (14)
Mathews (0) Left forward Simpson (4)
Trotter (2) Center Anderson (16)
Price (6) Right guard Wearn (0)
Wharton (0) Left guard Goodykoontz (12)

Substitutions—Seniors: Holshouser, Joe Matthews. Sophs: Kaiser, W. W., and Kaiser, G. Referee: Hewlett; timekeeper: J. McConnell.

That year the Davidson team, although losing, opened up an offensive that carried the ball down the field from the Wildcat 29-yard line, a pass Hendrix-to-Davis carrying the ball over.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Good Orchestra Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

Spalding Reach Goldsmith Goods Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street

For the first time a Carolina football team plays on Davidson soil. In the near 30 years of football contests Charlotte has seen this game 10 times, Winston-Salem seven, Wilmington and Greensboro once. Last year the Davidson team went down to Chapel Hill and though doped to lose by a great score, outplayed the Tar Heels but lost 14-3.

HARRY VANCE

Saturday Coach Younger’s machine rang up the first Davidson victory over the Clemson Tigers since 1917. Not strange to say, that year was one of Fetzers at Davidson.

Veteran Guard whose work in Clemson game attracted State-wide attention

Wrestlers Answer Call Issued by Capt. Weems

Pupil and teacher meet also today on Richardson, for it was under the Fetzers that Monk Younger got his first collegiate coaching, winning four letters his Freshman year at Davidson.

About Thirty Matmen Began First Practice in Gym Monday—More Fresh Needed

The wrestling season has opened up in full sway, the first practice being held last Monday afternoon at the gym. About 25 or 30 men have reported for the practice and have already begun working hard for a berth on this year’s team. Captain Weems, the Wildcat wrestling coach, is busily getting the men in good physical shape for the fast approaching season, which will begin in only a month’s time, with the first match being held with the team at Concord “Y,” December 12th. The wrestlers are working very earnestly, realizing that it will require a lot of hard and intensive training to prepare them for the coming season, which has several big matches on the schedule. Quite a number of the best wrestlers are now practicing with the football squad, and so will not be able to report for mat practice until the football season is over. But with the daily grind of football practice theywill be in fine physical shape for the wrestling peers. The Clemson contest saw not only four Wildcat warriors rise to great heights—Hendrix and Vance, Sappenfield and Baker—but it saw that a Davidson machine, in spite of the absence of several regulars, could "carry on." Captain Weems seems fairly optimistic over the prospects for this year’s team and is very pleased with the first practice, with the one exception regarding the small number of Freshmen that have turned out for wrestling. Only a very few Freshmen have gone down to the gym and reported for practice, and Captain Weems says that he is very disappointed at the present little interest that the Freshmen are taking in wrestling. He asserts that there should be at least 15 Freshmen, if not more, out for wrestling. It is the only sport which the Freshmen can make their Varsity letter, and with many berths on the team left vacant by last year's graduates and a few who have withdrawn from college, there is an excellent chance for Freshmen to make the team. Many are needed in each weight class, but especially in the heavyweight one, which requires 180 pounds, or preferably an even heavier man. Any man with this weight will have an excellent chance to make the team and is urged to report immediately to Captain Weems.

Wrestling is a comparatively new sport here at Davidson, but for the past few years, the future of wrestling depends to a great extent on this year’s Freshman class.

TOM BAKER
Entire Charlotte crowd rose to cheer his wonderful playing at tackle Saturday.

Tennis Match Here Won by Charlotte All-Stars
Former Davidson Men Win Three Matches to Davidson’s Two—Price Goes Good

The Davidson tennis team went down before the superior play of the invading racketeers from the Charlotte Country Club, here on the Hill, November 7th. The Wildcats won three matches to the Queen City’s four. Two matches were unfinished on account of darkness. Harry Price, Davidson’s lead man and holder of the Carolina intercollegiate title, easily defeated Tom Hawkins, the Charlotte champion, 6-2, 6-1, in the feature match of the meet. Price, combined with Beall, also won the lead doubles, playing Hawkins and Henderson to a 6-3, 6-3 loss. MacPherson Beall, in the hardest-fought match of the afternoon, defeated Bob Cunningham, 6-4, 4-6, 6-4. The Charlotte team won the rest of the matches completed. The Davidson reserve players lacked the punch to win after getting a lead. Tom Staley was absent from the Varsity four and this threw more than the usual amount of play on the reserve men. Bill Yates, of Charlotte, defeated Jim Trotter, of Davidson, 5-7, 6-1, 6-1. A. J. Henderson defeated Bob Crosland (D), 6-4, 6-3. McClintock (C) defeated McCutchen (D), 6-4, 5-7, 6-2; and McClintock and Gilchrist (C) defeated McCutchen and Brown (D), 4-6, 6-3, 7-5. Parker (D) and Gilchrist (C) had each won a set when stopped by darkness. Trotter and Crosland (D), playing Cunningham and Yates (C), also were unable to finish. This was a return match, the one the week before having resulted in an uncompleted tie. All the members of the Charlotte team are former Davidson men with the exception of Yates, so that the victory was in some ways a Wildcat win.

Of the Carolina team that plays this afternoon, there remain four men of the famous “wonder team” of 1922 which went through a hard Southern schedule undefeated and played Yale off her feet in the Bowl. Those are Captain Matthews, McIver, Merritt, and Sparrow.

Melt a little in a spoon or a tin cup and inhale the vapors arising.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High-Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga, Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
“U-DRIVE’MS”
Wholesale.

When You Need Candy See Us
26 28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.