BEAT TRINITY MAT MEN
WATCH SPRING FOOTBALL

Wildcat Grapplers Beat V. P.I. In Close Fight
Lindamood’s Men Win Over Tech Men 16-11 in Hard-Fought Match

Captain Poots Lindamood’s mat men won a decisive victory over V. P. I. on last Saturday night. They defeated the
Gobblers 16-11 in their own backyard, the meet being staged in Blacksburg. The Gobblers fought hard and when the last
match began the score was tied at 11-11. Former Captain Cromartie was the star of the meet. Wrestling in two
matches, the 125-pound class and the 135-pound class, he won both matches, defeating Elsea by the referee's decision and winning
from Rouzie, in the last match of the meet, by forcing his shoulders to the mat.

V. P. I. scored their points in the following manner: Sanders was given a decision over Cox in the 145-pound
class; Flory, in the 158-pound class, threw Patterson in one of the fastest matches of the entire meet, and Miles
was given a decision over Harry Vance in the 175-pound class. The Wildcats won their points through Selser’s fall over
Andrews in the 115-pound class; Cromartie’s win from Elsea on time; Lindamood’s time decision over Lineber in the heavyweight class,
and Cromartie’s defeat of Rouzie in the 135-pound class. The last named match was won in the last two minutes
of time.

Archie Keels Announces Fifteen Game Schedule
Red and Black Diamond Artists to Play Teams of Two Carolinas

Davidson students will have the opportunity of seeing the Wildcat nine in action on her new field in seven games
during the approaching baseball season. The following schedule, as arranged by Manager Archie Keels, shows that Captain Boushee and his
Wildcats will have a difficult program on the diamond this spring:

March 28—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
March 29—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
April 2—Lenoir at Davidson.
April 5—Elon at Davidson.
April 8—Trinity at Greensboro.
April 11—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 12—Guilford at Davidson.
April 14—N. C. State at Davidson.
April 17—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 18—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 21—Carolina at Gastonia.
April 29—Wofford at Rock Hill.
April 30—U. of S. C. at Columbia, S. C.
May 1—Furman at Greenville, S. C.
May 3—Trinity at Gastonia.

Out of a total of 15 games, 7 will be played on the Hill, and no doubt a large part
of the student body will see the two games at Gastonia and the one at Rock Hill. Already the pitchers
are oiling up their gloves and limbering up their arms in preparation for the workout which will begin in a
few weeks. Prospects are fine for a successful season.

RAWSON’S YEARLING QUINT
(Continued from page 1)

They defeated the N. C. State Fresh by a 34 to 16 score. The Farmers were completely outclassed in all
departments of the game and were forced to bow to the scrapping Kittens. At the end of the first half,
they were trailing 18 to 5. No stars could be pointed out for A. & E., though Waters and Gusham
played good games. Sapp and Anderson were the Davidson stars. Sapp found the basket for 14 markers while Anderson was
credited with 10 points. The Freshmen put up the best game of the trip against State. Coach Harry Hartsell, in
speaking for the team, said that it was, in his opinion, the best Fresh team he had seen on that
court this year.

Those making the trip were Hewlitt, captain, Anderson, Beall, forwards; Hudgins and Fawcett, centers; Sapp, Simpson, Goodykoontz, and Wynn, guards.
The season closes when the Wildcat “Rats” play the Mooresville High team on the Mooresville court. The M. H. S.
boys are bloodthirsty after their 21 to 20 defeat and the game should be well contested. The date has not
been definitely set.

Student Body Votes To Increase Athletic Fee
Vote to Increase Fee From Two and a Half to Five Dollars Each Term

Thursday morning at a meeting of the Athletic Association, on motion of L. D. Eldent, the student body voted unanimously
to increase the athletic fee for the coming year from two dollars and a half to five dollars. President Faison
said in presenting the matter, “The catalogue has been saying one thing and we have been doing another.” He explained
how the catalogue had said that the athletic fee covered admission to all the games on the Hill and how
the Athletic Association had been compelled to charge the students for many of the special games. By increasing the fee
to five dollars, less than at many colleges, the students will be relieved of having to pay at each attraction
and the Athletic Association will be put on a firmer foundation. Before the motion can go into effect it will
have to be passed on by the faculty.

ANNUAL GOES TO PRESS FULL OF GOOD MATERIAL

The faculty has recently passed favorably on the Senior class petition for the collection of three dollars additional annual fee
along with the regular dues. This will, in the future, assure the securing of the money necessary for the annual
and will guard against the incurring of another debt such as was left over by last year's Senior class. This
debt has finally been paid largely through the faithful and untiring efforts of Editor D. J. Chipman and Business Manager
O. K. Allison.

All of the material for this year’s annual was sent to the press Monday with the exception of the basketball
writeup, which will follow in a few days. Aggregate advertising contracted to date is already more than was in last
year’s annual. This at least points to the fact that this year’s Senior class will not leave a trail like
the class of last year. A good annual, completely paid for, will be something of an innovation at Davidson College.

THREE RURAL SERVICES CONDUCTED BY STUDENTS

On account of bad weather last SundayOnly three of the six rural Sunday Schools were attended by students. These were
Shearer, Mill Chapel, and the Convict Camp. At Shearer, there were 24 present. Those present were divided into three classes.
After Sunday School, Rev. F. A. Barnes preached on the subject, "Jesus Saw the Multitudes." He showed the need of
the world for Christian men and women who are willing to give their money and themselves so that the Gospel
might be preached to the heathen. At the Mill Chapel, there were 30 present. Mr. Jackson conducted the service. Classes
were taught by Mr. Jackson, Marion Murray, and Hodgkin. At the Convict Camp, the Preachers’ Quartet conducted the service. They
gave several selections and then had a testimony meeting.

HOW THEY RING UP POINTS

PLAYER 16:4 10 8 7 14 12 14 19 14 13 2 133 8 8 9 13 8 15 5
8 8 1 10 9 102 7-44 Be Dee 5 ig 8 4 42 6 4 4 132 8 2
39 2 Oneal 3° 1 20 510 6 4 3 2B 4 4 ; 3 1.4 6 i 6 49°20
36 27 31 33 30 34 37 24 35 22 378

Trinity. Elkins, seconded by W. F. Galloway, the student of unmet obligations in their wake as did.

The Dope Fiend

THE DOPE FIEND

The Fresh broke even, winning from Oak Ridge and State and losing to Carolina and And in the meantime, or
between time, the wrestling team licked V. P. I. South Carolina says that they might as well try to push
a tank over as get the best of “Sook” Boggs. Also, McConnell breaks into the limelight, with 10 points against
Lenoir and 6 against S. Carolina. Capt. Low Pockets hasn’t decided when to trot out the tank stallions. Well, no
use getting stale. We notice that “Buck” Shaw is going to coach N. C. State on football. We didn't know
Buck was such a stud. Trinity's Southern excursion resulted in four wins and four losses. They lost to South Carolina,
Alabama, Birmingham A. C., and Mercer, and won from Statesville A. C., Davidson, Howard, and one other we don't remember.

“The birds that sing in the spring tra-la.” Which reminds us it is getting on to March, and tennis and
baseball and track. Trinity here on the mats Saturday. It's another chance to beat the Methodists in something. No, Oswald,
the prince that swallowed Jonah wasn’t the Prince of Wales. As it is, we don’t know anything about ducks, that
is except white ducks. Oh, Shakespeare, Shakespeare, whyfore punneth thou me.

A state basketball tourney is a new wrinkle in these parts. That gives the Wildcats a chance to come back
at Wake and Trinity and U. N. C. Carolina has notched up 17 straight in the cage game. By next
week it will be 20 or so. “Money scores a touchdown and old man Dollar kicks a goal,” remarks a
Raleigh paper, in referring to a man named Jones, and a co-ed school in Durham. It's no doubt about money
scoring touchdowns. You either buy men, or you buy high-paid coaches, or you arrange to have the team play all
their games at home. Which is three of a kind. No money, no victories.

Lindamood’s limp doesn’t seem to bother him on the mat. The big boy handled himself in fine shape at Blacksburg.
How about a trolley line out to “Spring” Practice. Last year they worked out in front of Georgia, but now
we have to go on a hike to arrive. “Biddle” Field is lending valuable assistance in spring practice. Biddle says
he is helping with the interference. We'd call it getting in the way.

DAVIDSON BOY WINS HONORS AT UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA

George M. Robson, class of 1919, who is a Senior at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School, made the highest
average in his class last year. This year he was one of the ten men selected from the honor roll
of the Senior class and admitted to the Alpha Omega Alpha Fraternity. This is the highest honor afforded by any
organization in the university, and only ten men could be selected from a large class of honor men. He was
recently presented the key of this organization, which is the highest scholarship honorary medical fraternity in the University of Pennsylvania.

Basketball Tournament Schedule

In Raleigh Tourney to Decide Ranking of Teams in North Carolina

Plans have been laid and executed for a state basketball tournament to be held in Raleigh, N. C., on March
7th and 8th. Teams representing the various universities and colleges have been invited to participate in the tournament. The dates
have been set so far ahead to allow teams entering the S. I. C. tournament in Atlanta to take part
in the contest. Coach Monk Younger has entered his fighting Red and Black machine, and he expects them to show
up well. The dates set work a hardship on the Wildcats, for there is an interval of almost two weeks
between the last game of their regular schedule and the first game of the tournament. It is understood that Mr.
Knight, of the Durham “Y,” will referee the games. Teams that have already been asked and have already accepted the
invitation to take part are: Carolina, Davidson, N. C. State, Trinity, and Wake Forest.

SEVERAL ADDITIONAL MEN PLEDGED BY FRATERNITIES

Several additional fraternity pledges have been announced during the last week. Kappa Alpha, in addition to her other pledges, will
initiate W. K. Johnson and K. N. Jones; Kappa Sigma has initiated R. A. Mitchell; M. L. Carrol has been
pledged by Pi Kappa Alpha.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The Old Stand Open Once Again Appreciative Service W. G. SHIELDS Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

SPORTING GOODS

Our Representative on the Campus The Commissary Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. 18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building
