THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00
5th and College Streets
Charlotte
H. M. JOHNSTON

FANCY GROCERIES
See Me for Feeds
Phone 20

After every meal
Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that over-eaten feeling and acid mouth. Its l-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving for sweets. Wrigley’s is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides. Sealed in its Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the
SGW Cafeteria
SERVICE SATISFACTION

That’s what we give
Cleaning and Pressing
Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Scofield Tea Room
Home Cooking
Good Eats All the Time

He—"What did you say your age was?”
She—“I didn’t say, but I’ve just reached 20.”
He—"What detained you?”

Young Lady (in distress)—“My car is stalled. Have you a spare plug?”
Farmer—“Sorry, lady, I don't chaw, but I've got an old cigar I can lend you.”

He (over the phone)—"Alice, you peach, why don’t you give me a date?”
She—"Because I don't care a fig for you, you poor prune.”

Pat—“Say, Mike, we can’t go down that path.”
Mike—“And why not, begorra?”
Pat—"Sure, that sign says, ‘For Pedestrians Only,’ and we both be Irishmen.”

Ivory—"Here's our chance to make a clean-up. What do you say?”
Palmolive—“Nothing doing; Lux is against us again.”

'27—"When dating with a stage star you meet her at the stage door.”
'26—"And what do you do when dating a movie star?”
'27—"You meet her at the screen door, of course.”

English Negro—“Well, I'll wager a pound on this.”

“Papa, vot iss a cynic?”
“A cynic, mine son, is vot your mama vashes the dishes in.”

“We have christened our latest arrival ‘Helen Maria’ in honor of General Dawes,” said the farmer.

“Breath, where is thy sting?”

“Did you hear about the dance in Davidson last week?”
“I bought this coat from Ward.”
“Oh, yes, a coat of mail, so to speak.”

Montgomery Prof.—"How would you define premillennialism?”
K. Bell—"Very poorly, sir.”

“Say, you know Bill Jones’ ears?”
“Yeh, what of it?”
“Well, he fell in the river up to them.”

Would it be appropriate to call a negro cemetery a blackberry patch?

Our Weakly Song Hit—"To prolong the life of your bathing suit, take it off when entering the water.”

Hollywood Robertson.

American Darkey (holding four aces)—“Ah don't know nothin’ about your English money, but I'll bump you a couple of tons.”

“What a splendid fit,” said the tailor as he carried the epileptic out of his shop.

“Your honor,” said the attorney, “Your bull pup has chawed up the court Bible.”
“Well,” grumbled the Judge, “we can't adjourn to get a new Bible. Make the witness kiss the pup.”

“Cuba” McCallum will now sing his National Anthem, entitled: “I'm Headed South.”

“They say the first man was found in India.”
“Who found him?”

Queens—"I want to give Harold a surprise for his birthday. Can you suggest anything?”
Salem—"Tell him your age, darling.”

“Is this hair tonic in this bottle, mamma?”
“No, that's glue.”
“Perhaps that’s why my hat won't come off.”

You can always tell when you are on the wrong road in Virginia. There are no detour signs.

Prof.—"Mr. Bost, use Idaho in a sentence.”
Peter Boger—“Idaho lot rather answer some other question.”

Crook—"What am I supposed to have stolen?”
Police—"A horse and wagon.”
Crook—"Alright, search me.”

Jew (at ball game)—"Oh, Isaac, I forgot to lock the safe.”
Isaac—“Oh, that's alright, ve’re both here, ain’t ve?”

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Say a kind word for Patrick O'Toole;
He borrowed a feather to tickle a mule.

Take off your hat to Freshman Frantz;
He wears a board tucked in his pants.

Our latest song-hit as rendered by John D. Laws for this week is entitled: “Load your gun the night before so you can shoot him in the class.”

Tonight at seven o'clock Pig-Iron (R. L. Johnston) and Stoutboy Montgomery will have a game of mumble-peg in the lobby of the post office. Admission, 13 cents. All above expenses will go for the benefit fund, which is trying to raise money to get Vardell Williamson and Rough Boy McConnell a total shave, so that they will not look so barbarous.

All candidates for the prune-eating contest will hand their name in to Hebe McIlwaine at once. Failure to do so will be punishable by three taps on the sixth finger of the left hand.

Shorty Howell is so dumb that he thinks a loving cup is a reward given to the fellow who is the best neck-artist.wins the left-handed pick-axe. (Guiton and Regen Speak Before Volunteer Band)

Guiton Urges Members to Associate With and Aid Other Students

Last Sunday an interesting meeting was held by the Volunteer Band. E. K. Regen and T. A. Guiton addressed the assembly and both delivered fine talks. Tag Guiton spoke on the meaning of the Volunteer Band to Davidson. He gave as the purpose of the band: "To unite those interested in foreign mission work.” He told a parable of a student who was very religious, who attended church and chapel regularly, who never used profanity, who read his Bible prayerfully and in every way, tried to lead a religious life. But the other students seemed to regard him with suspicion. Understanding this, he asked his roommate what was the matter. His roommate told him that he had been leading the life of a Pharisee. He began to mix with the other students more, to be one of them and he found that his roommate was right. He found that he had been doing as the Pharisees had done, thanking God that he was not as other men were when these men were in reality better men than he was.

Third, change the time of meeting. Fifth, mix with the students more.

PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

Two of Regen’s points were acted upon and a committee composed of E. K. Regen, Harry Price and Tag Guiton, was appointed to formulate a plan for the work of the Volunteer Band this year. The meeting time was changed to after the “Y” meeting on Sunday evening.

“Tollie” Thompson to Conduct “Y” Revival

Former Davidson Student and Athlete Secured to Direct Annual Revival Services

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People

Beginning Sunday, William Taliaferro Thompson will conduct the series of meetings held annually by the Y. M. C. A. Tollie, as he is commonly known, is noted as a speaker to young men, and the Y. M. C. A. is fortunate in having secured his services for this four-day series. As is customary, during this series, he will speak at chapel each morning, in the afternoon, and on each evening. He has held pastorates at Knoxville, Tenn., and Mobile, Ala. At one time he was called as student pastor at Chapel Hill, and he has been in religious work at Camps Jackson and Green. He is now Professor of Sunday School Work and Work for Young People at Union Seminary. He has been wonderfully blessed and successful in his work.

221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town

He has been granted a leave of absence from the Seminary for the past year, which time he has spent abroad. His tour extended through Europe and Asia, covering both far and near East. He spent several months in Korea, and has first-hand information on all the mission stations in that field, being especially interested in mission work as he applied for foreign service at one time.

A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

His college career is marked with outstanding prominence. He engaged in baseball, basketball, and tennis; he was a Junior orator, vice-president of the student body, and president of the Senior class of 1905. Many of the townspeople will remember him as a boarder in Davidson, while he attended Davidson High School before entering Davidson College.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE

THE BETA KAPPAS EXTEND BIDS TO THREE MEMBERS

(Continued from page 1)

He was one of the leaders in the unique Spanish debate staged between teams representing Davidson and Carolina. He has served as assistant in both Spanish and French, and his excellence in languages has made his work in these positions unusually good.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In
Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Come to see us for your needs in Dress and Army Shoes

Just received a new shipment of Manhattan Shirts in Broadcloth, Stripe and Flannels

Come in and look them over

The Globe Clothing Co.