THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

DAVIDSON STUDENT WINS WEST POINT APPOINTMENT
(Continued from page 1)

superintendent of schools. The examination consisted of a strenuous test on six subjects: analysis and composition, literature, modern history, algebra,
geometry, and United States history. Robert Chewning, of Wofford College, came second; and Tom Dillon, of Dillon, James P. Howle,
of Hartsville, and George McDuffie, of Dillon, won third, fourth, and fifth places, respectively. The examination was held in the
South Carolina hall of the House of Representatives, and the examination, compiled by A. O. V. Hoffman, of the state
board of education, was a thorough test for the examined students.

H. M. JOHNSTON
FANCY GROCERIES
See Me for Feeds
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a l-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well. Makes the next cigar taste better. Sealed in its
Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
$$$
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Fresh—"Professor, how long could I live without brains?"
Prof.—"That remains to be seen."
Prof.—"What are the two genders?"
Stude—"Masculine and feminine. The masculines are temperate and intemperate, and the feminines are frigid and torrid."

Scientists say there is no life on the moon. Perhaps the moonshine killed them all.

Fortune Teller—"You wish to know about your future husband?"
Young Bride—"No, I wish to know about the past of my present husband for future use."

They call her R. N. W. M. P. because she always gets her man.

She (at movies)—"Oh, Buster, I wish you could make love like that."
Lawson—"I could if I had someone like her to make it to."

Salesman (teaching lady to drive)—"In case of emergency the first thing to do is to put on the brake."
Lady—"Why, I thought it came with the car."

Little Willie—"Mother, may I talk like a college boy?"
Mother—"Yes, dear, if you like."
Willie—"Then shoot the zip over here and make it snappy."

Prof.—"I have just went. Is it not?"
Bob Walker—"Yessir."
Prof.—"Why is it wrong?"
Bob—"Because you ain't went yet."

Soph—"Did you ever take chloroform?"
Fresh—"No, who teaches it?"

"Do you use Williams’ shaving cream?"
"No, I'm not rooming with him this year."

Gallant wears his socks wrong side out because there is a hole in the other side.

Wharton—"Something is preying on Gladney’s mind."
Purdy—"Don't worry, it will die of starvation."

Passenger—"What makes the train so slow?"
Peeved Conductor—"If you don't like it, get off and walk."
Passenger—"I would, only I’m not expected until the train gets there."

It is better to have loved a short man than never to have loved a tall.

We know a man who has such a pug nose that every time he sneezes he blows his hat off.

Circus man—"The leopard has escaped. Shoot him on the spot."
Guard—"Which spot?"

Moore’s Bicycle Shop is the place to buy your Guns, Shells, Puttees, Basket Ball Goods.

You're wrong again, Algernon. A man who is a miser is not one who eats mice.

Shick—"I met a girl last night."
Shriek—"Was she good looking?"
Cohen—"Abie speaks four languages."
Goldstein—"Vell, always he vas quick mit his hands."

Famous Gins
Gordon as Oxy————, Hydro——— sid INN thos Cotton ————. ————sing. ——-3zer. Come a———$_——

"The spring is here!" cried the poet as he took the back off his Ingersoll.

"Rastus, whar you keep yo' money?"
"In mah strong box."
"What dat, niggah?"
"In mah shoe."

The height of extravagance is buying an all-day sucker at 6:00 o'clock in the afternoon.

Nappy—"If a man had two children, what would he get?"
Flake—"A second-hand runabout."

"How’s the chicken today?"
Waitress—"Fine, how are you?"

Prof.—"Mr. Westbrook, after Moses had cast the rod on the ground and it became a serpent, how was he commanded
to pick it up?"
Fresh Westbrook—"He was commanded to stretch forth his hand and pick him up by the handle."

Judge—"What is your name?"
Prisoner—"Westinghouse. I'm an electrician, charged with battery."
Judge—"Put him in a dry cell."

Since Frank Hudgins has been studying about 14th-century ballads in English, he has begun to sing "Bloody War," his favorite.

Fresh—"I know what they give you a yellow cap for, but what do they give you a paper cap for?"

"What we call an optimist is a man who helps himself to boarding-house steak the second time."

Capt. Ramsay—"Stand at ease."

Lady—"Whose company are you in?"
Fresh Steele—"In Professor Gibbs."

Claude Allen sprang a new one the other day when he announced in chapel that he had lost a fountain
pen with Mr. Duofold’s name on it.

SENIOR COMMITTEES
(Continued from page 1)Periodicals will be functioning properly and the managers and editors will understand how their publications should be
run. For a long time, the need for a committee similar to this one has been keenly felt, and with
these three men, all of whom are well known for their ability to handle such matters, together with the two
members that the faculty will appoint, much responsibility will be lifted from the shoulders of the various business managers. This
will make the student body, as a whole, know that their periodicals are in safe hands.

Bill Ramsey Tells How To Live Closer to Christ Before Ministerial Band

He Develops Four Ways in Which This Can be Done

Bill Ramsey was the speaker before the Ministerial Band at their regular meeting. He developed the main idea of getting
closer to Jesus Christ from four points of view. First, he pointed out the necessity of prayer and how it
will help one to overcome the obstacles that confront him during the course of the day. He put across the
idea that humility is a vital factor in the life of a real Christian. Christ was humble in His dealings
with the people, therefore it is necessary for one who would be Christlike to also bear himself humbly. Third, he
showed that faith is the first essential in the life of a Christlike man. His last point, and really his
main one, was the idea of getting closer to Christ through nature. He emphasized this graphically, showing how much easier
it was for one to really feel the presence of his Master in some quiet secluded spot where he could
be alone and have the advantage of communing with God than it is in the everyday rush where everything is
artificial and where there is constant strife in daily life.

After Ramsey’s talk, a short business meeting was held in which it was decided best to retain the usual hour
of meeting. It was announced that the officers for the coming term would be elected next Sunday.

A novel but serviceable innovation at N.C. State is the installation of electric lights on the practice field. The Techmen
do not get off class until 4:14, so as the nights became shorter, the artificial light system was tried. It
is working great and the Wolfpack have been able to practice as late as eight o'clock.

R. O. T. C. News

This week the Freshmen have been engaged in the citing exercises, preparatory to range firing which will take place sometime
in the near future at the gymnasium. They first go through the steps in skeleton form and then use their
rifles, the idea being to cite three dots as close together as possible. For the last four years, Lieutenant George
has offered a trip to the Thanksgiving game to the man who could put three dots one upon the other.
All students who have tried this know very well how seemingly impossible it appears. Many have gotten as close as
one-eighth or one-sixteenth of an inch apart, or probably one dot on another, but the Freshmen this year have done
much better. It is said that Peewee McCravey had three dots touching one another, but Lieutenant George must have three
dots in one, so R. E. Wilson, with a keen eye and steady arm, fulfills all requirements, thus gaining a
trip to Durham. It has taken Lieutenant George four years to find just one man who has an absolutely accurate
eye and steadfast arm. Now he and his man, Fresh Wilson, can watch together with eagle eyes the fighting Wildcats’
scrap with the Blue Devils Thursday.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street, Charlotte

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Athletic Equipment
Player Piano Rolls

Complete Line Columbia Bicycles
Parker-Gardner Company
D & M Sweaters (best made)
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
