THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

BEAT TRINITY AT GASTONIA NAVY NEXT YEAR

DAVIDSON TENNIS TEAM IN MEET AT GREENSBORO

The Tennis Team, composed of Staley, Price, Beall, and Trotter left Tuesday for Greensboro, where they will engage in the State tournament. In the tournament there last year, the Wildcats came off with flying colors. Bradley, last year’s captain, won the singles championship. The doubles team reached the finals but was defeated by Carolina. The prospects for repeating that performance are not so bright but the members of the team are determined to win. The team will be away for the next week, meeting Trinity and Carolina during their trip.

FURNITURE and UNDERTAKING
Everything For The Home
WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

THE CAMBRIDGE

For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button.
A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents

Collegians From Wilson Defeat Wildcats Here
Covington Pulls Two Double Plays as Laird Loses to Wheelerton Friday

After having beaten the strong Tar Heel team Easter Monday at Gastonia, the Wildcats were taken from their pedestal by the Atlantic Christian College nine in a slow game played here Friday afternoon. The Davidson men were unable to connect with the pill when hits were most needed. As a result, 11 men were left on bases. Two chances for victory were lost by the Wildcats. In each case, the bases were loaded. But Wheelerton, A. C. C. twirler, held Davidson scoreless both times, taking the measure of the man up for the third out. Only once did the Wildcats get the score evened with the Christians—in the fourth, A. C. C. again took the lead in the fifth and kept it throughout the remainder of the game. Ted Covington made two double plays unassisted in one of which he doubled the runner off first. Reel, for the visitors, got three hits out of four times up. One of Davidson's tallies was brought in by Sion Alford’s three-bagger. Only two games will remain on the Freshman schedule, the first with Statesville High School on May 5th, and the second with M. P. C. I. on May 6th. Both of these games will be played on the home diamond. The game with the M. P. C. I. boys, who made such a favorable impression in their appearance against the varsity at the beginning of the present season, will be a fitting close to the Wildkitten season.

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

ROBERT MARION BRICE “Marion”
D* Football
D* Baseball

Came from Alabama and contributed his bit toward holding up his part of Alabama’s reputation. Marion came here with a two-fold ambition and as his record will show, he attained great success in both of his aspirations. In athletics alone Brice made a record that would cause him to stand out. On his arrival here, he immediately took an interest in football, making the company team and thereby showing the ability that is his. Plugging at it he went to the varsity scrubs his next year and the following year he took his place as varsity center. Not being satisfied with a football letter and star, he turned his attention to baseball and here he also starred, holding for two years any pitcher that the coach would send to the mound. By way of rounding out these honors, Brice played with the college golf team and was one of the stars of his class track team. Marion’s second ambition led him in the paths of study. His success in this line can be judged from the fact that his name is found on that privileged list known as the honor roll. Considering everything, Brice is a combination of athletics and mental ability that is rarely found. His influence in athletics and on the campus is greatly missed and will continue to be greatly missed during the coming years.a| SOPHS DEFEAT JUNIORS IN MONDAY GAME 12-3

*Batted for Simpson in eighth.

Summary: Three base hits, S. Alford, Marrow, Barnhill; sacrifice hits, Boushee, Simpson, Creech; double plays, Covington (2) unassisted; bases on balls off, Laird 1, Wheelerton 3; struck out by, Laird 6, Wheelerton 8; left on bases, Davidson 11, A. C. C. 4. Time of game, 1:30. Umpire, Hengeveld.

THREE MORE HOME GAMES BEFORE RAWSON’S FRESH

Coach Rawson's Wildkitten tossers begin the last lap of their race for state baseball honors, when they meet the Wake Forest Freshman on Richardson Field, Saturday afternoon. This will be the second encounter between the two teams, the first game played at Wake Forest last Saturday, ending in a defeat for the Wildkittens, 6 to 1. The Davidson Freshmen will be primed for revenge, and will make an earnest endeavor to even the count with the Wake Forest lads in Saturday’s game. Coach Rawson, just back from a three-game trip with his charges, has not announced his line-up for the game; but it is probable that the Fresh team will enter the fracas with few changes in the usual line-up. Following the game with Wake Forest, 

In a practice game on Richardson field last Monday afternoon the Sophomores beat the Juniors 12 to 3. This was a preliminary to the class series that will begin in a few days. One of the features of the game was the pitching of Sappenfield, who struck out ten men in the eight innings.

Summary: Home runs, Brice, Hendrix; three-base hits, Mallory; two-base hits, Long, Wells; stolen bases, Bachman (2), Long, Hendrix, Mallory; left on bases, Juniors 4; Sophs 5; base on balls off, Sappenfield 1; McSwain struck out by, Sappenfield 10; Holshouser 5; losing pitcher, Holshouser; winning pitcher, Sappenfield; umpire, Parrish; time, 2 hours; attendance, 15.

Dashes and Races

Davidson’s track team dropped the first meet of their Virginia invasion when they lost to the Virginia Military Institute last Saturday, by the score of 90-36. Foster, V. M. I’s star dash-man and one of the fastest men in the Old Dominion state, won the century and the 220 in excellent time. “Windy” White, star football man of the institute won the discus with a remarkable heave of over 118 feet. Gracey for the Wildcats was the shining light with two firsts, a second, and a third, for a total of 14 points. Captain Streibich tied for first place at 10 feet 6 inches. “Speck” McConnell walked away with the mile in handy style, leading Duigid, V. M. I’s best distance man for the route, finishing in 4 minutes, 52 seconds.

Summaries:
100 yard dash—Foster V. M. I. first, Willis V. M. I. second, Watkins V. M. I. third; time 10 flat.
880 yard run—Briggs V. M. I. first, McBryde Davidson second, Baird V. M. I. third; time 2 minutes, 5 seconds.
120 yard high hurdles—Gracey Davidson first, Doty V. M. I. second, Kellog V. M. I. third; time 17 1-5 seconds.
Two mile run—Lewis V. M. I. first, Williford Davidson second, Marshall V. M. I. third; time 10 minutes, 52 seconds.
220 yard dash—Foster V. M. I. first, Watkins V. M. I. second, Koenig Davidson third; time 22 4-5 seconds.
220 yard low hurdles—Kellog V. M. I. first, Doty V. M. I. second, Gracey Davidson third; time 27 seconds.
One mile run—McConnell Davidson first, Diuguid V. M. I. second, Chaudo V. M. I. third; time, 4 minutes, 52 seconds.
440 yard dash—Burgess V. M. I. first, Baird V. M. I. second, Parker Davidson third; time 52 4-5 seconds.
Shot put—Letcher V. M. I. first, White V. M. I. second, Gracey Davidson third; distance, 41 feet 3 3-4 inches.
High Jump—Sims V. M. I. first, Gracey Davidson and Bryan V. M. I. tied for second; height 5 feet 8 inches.
Discus—White V. M. I. first, Letcher V. M. I. second, Cox Davidson third; distance 118 feet, 11 inches.
Pole vault—Streibich, Davidson and Nolan, V. M. I. tied for first; Sims, V. M. I., third; height, 10 feet, 6 inches.
Javelin throw—Gracey Davidson first, Anderson Davidson second, Kellogg, V. M. I. third; distance 157 feet.
Broad jump—Watkins V. M. I. first, Denton V. M. I. second, McMillan Davidson third; distance 20 feet, 10 1-4 inches.

Some girls are like cigarettes—not much good until they are lit.

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

SPORTING GOODS Our Representative on the Campus

Wholesale When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.

The Commissary Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. 18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

Carolina Concert Club SHEARER HALL Monday, May 5th, 7:30 P. M. Under Direction of Mrs. Coral Baker Tickets on Sale at White Drug Co. 2:00 P. M., Friday and Monday ADMISSION 50 and 75 Cents