8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

’24—R. L. Price is in the real estate business at Charlotte, N. C.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE” CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Town News

Friends of Tommy Lothery, of the Freshman class, will be pleased to hear that he is improving rapidly in Sloan’s
Sanatorium in Charlotte, where one of his eyes, badly injured, has been undergoing treatment.

Dr. and Mrs. W. J. Martin have returned from a visit to Fayetteville.

Miss Mary Black has returned from a visit in Greenville, S. C., at the home of her brother and sister,
Mr. and Mrs. Jack Black.

The Young Matrons’ Club entertained delightfully at Mrs. Foreman’s home in honor of Mrs. F. L. Dendy, who was leaving
for New York.

Mrs. Marcus L. Brown, of Decatur, Ga., was the guest of Mrs. Arbuckle for several days last week.

The Thelemite Club met last Friday night with Prof. J. L. Douglas. The guest of honor was Miss Marguerite Douglas,
of Brazil.

Judge Frazer, of Sumter, S. C., who spoke at the Y. service on the night of Sunday, November 17, was
the guest of Dr. T. W. Lingle.

Last Thursday afternoon, four of the ladies’ circles met. Number five met that evening with Mrs. Wooten. At that time
several guests in addition to the members, were present.

Dr. W. L. Lingle was the guest of his brother for a day or so last week.

Mrs. Martin and Miss Eloise attended the McKay-Mountcastle wedding in Lexington on Thursday of last week.

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young have temporarily closed their house on North Main Street and are visiting their aunt, Mrs.
Allison, in Concord.

Mrs. James Matthews, of Washington, D. C., will spend Thanksgiving with his sister, Mrs. Katherine Matthews, at the home of
Mrs. Olin White.

Brick Carelessly Thrown Inflicts Serious Injury
Thos. E. Lothery of Davidson Student Body May Recover Sight After Serious Injury

Thomas E. Lothery, of the Freshman class, was hit in the right eye with a brick on Monday, November 17th.
He was taken to a hospital in Charlotte, but is now at home. It is thought that useful sight will
be regained. Lothery was putting his car in the garage, when a friend playfully threw a piece of brick at
the building in an effort to frighten him. The brick missed the garage and struck Lothery cornerwise in the eye
just as he came through the doorway. The right eye was seriously injured. It was doubtful at the time of
the accident whether sight would be retained, but Dr. MacConnell expressed himself as being reasonably hopeful that Lothery will regain
at least useful control of the injured organ. Freshman Lothery is a son of T. E. Lothery, of the M.
H. Goodrum Company firm, and is well-known about town as well as in the college. He was a member of
last year’s graduating class at the local high school. Since his return from Charlotte on November 23, he has been
under the care of Dr. J. M. MacConnell. It is hoped that complete recovery will soon permit Lothery to return
to his college duties.

WILDKITTENS MEET FIRST DEFEAT
(Continued from page 1)

The affair for the remainder of the quarter was a see-saw. The second period saw two touchdowns made by Furman,
both coming in quick succession. With the ball on Davidson's 36-yard line, Laney made 15 yards around end and with
several other plays Rawle went 11 yards for a touchdown. Several exchanges followed on the next kick-off and a fumble
by Davidson was recovered by Furman on the 20-yard line. Laney then made 16 yards and on the third play
Laney carried the ball over for the second touchdown of that period. The third quarter was scoreless. After a Davidson
pass had been intercepted, an attempt for a field goal failed.

SLOAN’S Cleaners and Dyers

We wish to announce to our friends and public at large, the opening of our New Dry Cleaning and Dyeing
Plant. RICKERT BUILDING on Front Street, opposite the Vance Hotel. We have all new equipment---the best money can buy, assuring
our customers of the best cleaning and dyeing service obtainable. A visit to our plant will be interesting as well
as instructive to you, and we invite you to come at your convenience. We will gladly show you through and
explain all the processes. This plant is something new for Statesville and vicinity and is made possible only through the
splendid co-operation and patronage of the good people of this section. We appreciate this loyalty shown us, and it will
at all times be our aim to give a service that will be worthy of this trust. We are members
of the National Association of Dyers and Cleaners. This membership alone is a guarantee of master service to every individual
whom we serve; as this association bonds each member to conduct his business on the highest plane of honesty and
service. Remember our new phone number: 147.Location and that an inspection of our plant by you will be “NOT HOW
CHEAP BUT HOW GOOD!” STATESVILLE, N. C. We are located in the new FRONT STREET. Garments of Davidson Students Receive
Special Attention. Student Representative Wanted. Liberal Commission. Write At Once.

The period ended with the ball in midfield. With the opening of the fourth quarter, Furman started down the field
and after a 25-yard gain, a lateral pass, Pipkins to Rawle, netted 16 yards and a touchdown. As the game
was nearing a close, Pipkins intercepted a pass and went 25 yards. An attempted field goal failed. Davidson kicked and
when Furman fumbled, recovered the ball in midfield. Then two passes, both from Dick Grey to Arrowood, netted 34 yards,
but after two more attempted passes, the ball changed hands and the game soon ended. Pipkins, Rawle, and Laney, all
backfield men, were stars for Furman, while the playing of Ritchie in the line for the Wildkittens was the only
feature of the Davidson team. Line-ups follow:

Davidson (0) Position Furman (25)
McGolgans Left end Wilde
Ritchie Left tackle Hutchinson
Ingram Left guard Vanderbunk
Chatham Center Sewell
Maupin Right guard Donny
Grey Right tackle Ulio
Arrowood Right end Byrne
Wilson Quarterback Rawle
Grey Right half Laney
McMillan Left half Carson
Overton Fullback Pipkins

Summary—Scoring touchdowns: Pipkin, Rawle (2), Laney. Scoring points after touchdown: Byrne, Rawle. Substitutions—Davidson: Sutton, Melton. Furman: Grady, Moss, Clifford, Hurt,
Hamett, Gibson. Officials—Referee: Black (Davidson); umpire: Gettys (Clemson); headlinesman: Speer (Furman).

BISHOP RONDTHALER (Continued from page 1)

Speaking of the materialistic feeling which for a time made rapid progress and caused fear to arise, Bishop Rondthaler said,
“But now the road has turned. Now we can triumphantly return, with confidence backed up by scientific research, to the
old beliefs that there is mind, and that there is soul. Straight shooting is needed to show that mind is
really mind—and soul is soul. Straight and vigorous thinking must be done.”

The speaker made reference to the beliefs adopted by those who still hold to the Wundt mechanistic theory. Statements from
the pens of prominent psychologists who hold the Wundt theory were read.

In concluding his address, the Bishop cited great and harmful results that would follow should the Wundt theory be accepted.
One result, for example, would be the breaking up of many homes. No hope of change could be held out
to one into whose life there had come a defect, if it was only “gray matter” that was responsible. The
processes of law would be broken down. Murderers could not be responsible for their acts—they would not be morally responsible.
Criminals could lay the blame for their crimes on defective gray matter, and the laws would be helpless. Then there
would follow the denial of the soul as an entity. There would be no moral responsibility—no hope for the outcast—no
grace to sinners. There would be no salvation—no hope, because of the “gray matter.”

The convincing example of a man whose life was changed from that of a habitual drunkard to that of a
respectable Christian gentleman, a man who later became a leader in church work, was given. “What can the mechanists say
to such cases?” “Stand fast in the liberty by which Christ has set you free. Put the same value on
mind and soul as Jesus put. ‘What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose
his own soul?’”

Hayden Hollingsworth presided, reading the scripture from the sixth chapter of Ephesians. S. F. Bryant led the singing, Wallace Purdy
was pianist, and McCravy and Count Davis rendered a cornet duet. Armistead Christian and Joe Garrison led in prayer during
the opening exercises, and Dr. H. B. Arbuckle dismissed the house with prayer.

Among the men of national note who have been visitors at Emory University this fall are: Josephus Daniels, a statesman
of international fame, and Dr. Charles F. Thwing, president of the United Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity.

The height of efficiency is going without a cap so as to cut down overhead expenses.

A few drops before school keeps the hair combed all day. Refreshing, pleasing. At drug counters and barber shops everywhere.

Gloss-Comb THE ORIGINAL LIQUID HAIR DRESS FOR Real Men and Boys

Send for Sample Bottle. Mail coupon and 10c for generous trial bottle. Normany Products Co., 6511 McKinley Ave., Los Angeles,
Cal.

Name

Need Money? WE have a plan whereby college men can realize an income while going to school and at the
same time secure professional training which may be used later in establishing a professionally-owned and profitable business. A University of
North Carolina man qualified for our $100,000 club last year. You, too, can make money as our representative while in
college.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.
