THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00
5th and College Streets
Charlotte

H. M. JOHNSTON
FANCY GROCERIES
See Me for Feeds
Phone 20

After Every Meal
It’s the longest-lasting confection you can buy — and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser for the mouth
and teeth. Wrigley’s means benefit as well as pleasure.
Sealed in its Purity Package

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S & W Cafeteria

SERVICE SATISFACTION
That’s what we give
Cleaning and Pressing
Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Scofield Tea Room!
Home Cooking

Visitor (in West): “Does Walter Davis, a student, live here?"
Fresh Hall: “Well, Davis lives here, but I thought he was a night watchman.”

Tragedy on second floor of Georgia:
Little drops of water,
Little grains of sand
Make a great big puddle
And a mighty dirty man.

Down in Georgia they say that a negro is naturally Republican, but two dollars is a lot of money, and
B. V. means, “Better Vote Democrat.”

Fresh Ebey: “I’ve got a compliment for you, Tommy.”
McSwain: “How’s that, Fresh?”
Fresh: “I heard a girl say that you had a cute indigestion.”

We've heard of dumb Freshmen, but the one that takes the seagoing battleship is the bird that tacked his blotter
up on the wall just because it had a football schedule on it.

Johnnie Walker and the Haig Brothers will give a concert in Columbia, S. C., at the State Fair, October 22nd.
The public is cordially invited.

The biggest dumb I’ve ever seen,
Is a man named Hollywood Rk.
He said, “Much obliged” to the motorman
As he swung off the trolley car.

“Cuba” McCallum was greatly embarrassed at the zoo before a large crowd of people when a cage full of his
relatives began bombarding each other with coconuts.

Prof.: "Mr. Ray, your answers remind me of Quebec.”
Archibald: “Why, doctor?”
Prof.: “Because they're built on a bluff.”

This McCallum is somewhat the cheese,
He has all the girls on his knees.
He plays with them all,
And each seems to fall.
Say! ain't they easy to please?

Poetic '28: “What is so rare as a day in June?”
Unpoetic '27: “A Freshman after a Sophomore banquet.”

Where is She
What has become of the old-fashioned girl who sent a box of candy every once in a while?

The bath-taking contest for the week has remained the same. The score is still 1 to 4 in favor of
Shelby, Webb is leading a close second.

On the farm: More rain, more rest.
At Davidson: More rain, more mess.

Advertisement on a blotter: "We clean and dye.”

Steve Wall to Rob. Johnston: "If anybody ever cleaned your clothes they would die.”

SORE MUSCLES
“Here's where I prove an artist without a brush,” he cried. And drew a lovely maiden up closer to his
side.

Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.

Prof.: “Have you an excuse for your absence?”
Lovelace: “No, but if you will tell me when it was I’ll get you one.”

Overheard at the boarding house: “Wait butter.”

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

'28: “Which is the butt end of a cigarette?”
'20: “The other end.”

WALK-OVER
Shoes for College Men:
SULLIVAN BROS.
310 West Trade Street
SAMPLES NOW SHOWING

Hashes to hashes,
And prune to prune.
There's a fly in my coffee.
Lend me your spoon.

First Dumb: “The furnace is out.”
Ditto: “Impossible, the cellar door is locked.”

She: “Would you like to help the Old Ladies’ Home?”
He: “Seems to me like they ought to be able to help themselves.”

FOR DRESS
NEW LASTS—SHORT WIDE TOES
I never kiss a slender miss—
I cannot make connections.
I want ’em large
And plump like Marge
The kind you love in sections.

NEW PATTERNS—NEW LEATHERS—NEW HEELS
$7—$9
GOLF SHOES—$7.50—$10
DANCING PUMPS—$8—$8.50

P. F. Jones, seeing about five cake-eaters hanging onto one poor little frail last Saturday: “Believe uncle, when my girl
comes up here I'm going to be my own.”Fire-Chief. I won't need any assistants.”

Before Buying
“WALK OVER to 310 West— and see the WALK-OVER LINE”
REMEMBER “IT TAKES WALK-OVERS TO ADD THAT FINAL TOUCH” (As quoted from a State Paper).

Separating the playing field from the gymnasium; and the Davidson band played tunes familiar to almost everyone present.

On the Hill this year.
Soph—"Who are they?”
Good Eats All the Time
Dormitory Row, and Jethro.
Frosh—“Alvin Rowe, Carter Rowe, Dor- aus well as quality.
“Some 350 Freshmen lined the fence,
Frosh—"I understand we've got four TOW

R. O. T.C. Band to Have An Expert Music Master
E. J. Lacock of Fort Bragg Fame to Instruct Local Organization

Through special courtesy and arrangement with Gen. A. J. Bowley, commandant at Fort Bragg, Warrant Officer E. J. Lacock, band
leader of the famous Fort Bragg band, has been secured to train the Davidson College band for a period of
30 days, and will make his headquarters at the college during that time. Officer Lacock is on leave status from
Fort Bragg, where he has trained and led one of the famous army bands in the South. He will be
at Davidson for one week in October and for three weeks in November, during which time the number of band
practices will be doubled, in order to secure the fullest benefit from his instruction. The Davidson band this year is
larger and far better than those of former years, and with the valuable instruction from Officer Lacock, the organization is
destined to become one of the largest and most developed college musical organizations in the South.

EVE OF LENOIR GAME (Continued from page 1)
Have the best stunt of them all. It remains for the audience alone to decide between the three. The Dramatic
Club will entertain with one of their ever-splendid one-act plays, The Little Milliner, written by Prof. Bo J. Irwin. This
one promises to be up to the standard of those they have given in the past, which being the case
is enough said. The Glee Club Quartet will perform, followed by the Jazz Orchestra, which will make its debut under
Footie Crayton. But the Symphony also insists on not letting the audience miss further musical enjoyment. The Joe Karnest Jazz
Wing Orchestra is directed by Joe, who is not through when his Orchestra ceases activities, for he has still to
give an entirely original and real musical stunt, “satisfaction or money back.” Beside all these collective stunts there are to
be several stunts by just a few men. Though small in numbers, yet big in quality. For instance, Colonel Mellwaine
promises his opponent will last only eight seconds. Jim Carr, the college sign painter, will stage a boxing match. However,
Frank Bey and O. Bey will be on hand to give a chalk talk. He says it's a small accomplishment
to make chalk perform, and the larger the audience the better. G. W. Taylor is to give a monologue, and
the Kiser Brothers are to sing their negro songs. They are already familiar to a Davidson audience and need no
recommendation. J. S. Grey is to render a solo, and McClain, Pad Wilson, and Russell are to put on a
medley music stunt. Besides all these many and varied stunts, there may be some others, equally as good. All the
Stunt Night needs to make it a real success is the crowd. And the stunt everybody can do, is to
come out.

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
