HEAR BIDDLE BOYS FRIDAY NIGHT ATTEND BLUE RIDGE THIS JUNE

Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 15, 1924

Blue Ridge Conference to Attract Many Collegians

Ten-Day Convention in June Promises Inspirational Program—Speakers of Note to be There

GOOD ATHLETIC PROGRAM

Y. M. C. A. Gathering Draws Larger Number of Men Each Year

June 17, through June 26, marks the time when the footsteps of many Southern college men will lead toward Blue
Ridge, the shrine to which come yearly hundreds of student Y. M. C. A. members. This year’s conference will encompass
a period of 10 days, during which time, men from colleges over the entire South will meet in an association
which will be of infinite help to each of them in the making of lifelong friends.

The name of Blue Ridge and Blue Ridge Conferences brings ideas of only clean intellectual, social, spiritual, and physical development
of men who there associate themselves for a broadening of their lives. Located in the lofty mountains of North Carolina,
synonymous with perfect health and happiness, it has for 22 years been the scene of gatherings for large numbers of
men of intense college and Christian spirit. It is both a recreation and a re-creation for men who have just
finished the hard grind of nine months in school, and coming just at the close of the college year, has
come to be looked upon by many as essential to the rounding out of a vacation.

The program is one of intense application, of audience to the best of speakers, of discussion of vital questions of
the day, of conferences on association and college work, and, most of all, of association with other students in every
phase of life, in discussion (Continued on page 5)

Epsilon Chapter of Pi Kappa Phi Reinstated

Kappa Phi Local to Receive National Charter Tuesday at Charlotte

Announcement has been made by the Pi Kappa Phi national officers that the petition of Kappa Phi (local) for the
re-installation of Epsilon Chapter in Davidson College has been granted and that the initiation ceremonies and the installation banquet will
be held in Charlotte on Tuesday, May 20.

Kappa Phi was organized during the past session for the purpose of obtaining a re-installation of Epsilon Chapter of Pi
Kappa Phi which was withdrawn from the college in 1918 on account of the depletion of its membership during the
period of the war. At the national convention of Pi Kappa Phi, held in Atlanta during the past Christmas holidays,
it was voted to dispense with the “one-year rule” for locals then in effect, due to the fact that the
Davidson group was petitioning for a re-installation, and to consider immediately the petition of Kappa Phi. The action was favorable
and preparations are being made for the initiation of the local group at Charlotte on the 20th.

The advent of Pi Kappa Phi brings the total number of national fraternities to eight. A majority of the credit
for the bringing of Pi Kappa Phi back upon the campus is due to the Alumni Chapter in Charlotte and
to the persistent work of M. C. Stith, ex-’26, a member of Chi Chapter, of Stetson University.

The present roll of Kappa Phi is as follows: C. M. Brown, E. T. Buck, J. W. Curdts, J. C.
Fowler, W. M. Gracy, J. H. Hall, Jr., W. M. Heston, C. P. Johnston, F. C. Kugler, Kenneth Lewis, R.
L. Price, E. T. Pullen, Jr., J. M. Selser, H. L. Shaw, Jr., C. M. Streibich, and B. W. Williams.

PATTON AND BRIGGS WILL MANAGE TEAMS

At the last meeting of the Athletic Council, J. H. Patton was selected to manage the track team for next
year. At the same meeting Julian Briggs was elected to manage the baseball team. These two men were the first
to be elected by the new method which was passed by the student body a few weeks ago. Both men
are prominent leaders on the campus, Patton being president of the Glee Club for next year. Briggs is president-elect of
the rising Senior class. These men, both by their ability as managers, and on account of popularity on the Hill,
are expected to make the business end of their respective seasons a success.

Three Original One-Act Plays Star Davidsonians

Playlets Written by Local Playwrights Will Enliven Commencement Week With Acting

Announcement has been made by Prof. J. M. Erwin, director of the Dramatic Club, that the club will present for
Commencement visitors on Monday night, June 3, three original one-act plays, introducing a number of students in novel characterizations. The
plays, written by Davidson students with the exception of one by Professor Erwin, deal with a wide variety of subjects,
and should afford extensive amusement and entertainment for the large number of visitors expected on the hill during the commencement
exercises. The plays will be offered instead of the usual Senior class play, and the performance will start at 8:00
o'clock in the evening, following the annual class day exercises.

The first of the plays, Feelings, by Henry Martyn White, is an ante-bellum drama, with the action centered about the
home of Peter Calloway, near the Virginia Capes, about the year 1815. White, the author, takes the leading part, and
will portray the old planter, Peter Calloway. Other parts will (Continued from page 5)

Rev. Wade C. Smith Says ‘Most Powerful Law of World Is Mother Love

In Address Before Y. M. C. A. Last Sunday — Beautiful Service in Memory of Mother Conducted

NOTED SPEAKER

Rev. Mr. Smith is Well-Known as Religious Writer and Author

Rev. Wade C. Smith, pastor of the Church by the Side of the Road, and author of religious books and
treatises, was the speaker at the Mother's Day service of the Y. M. C. A. Sunday evening. The text treated
is found in Proverbs 1:8, and also Proverbs 6:20: “My son, forsake not the law of thy mother.” A. N.
Moffett, of the “Y” cabinet, read the Scripture.

The speaker in his opening remarks called attention to God's blessing on Davidson, and urged his hearers to be witnesses
to His power, and so to make their mothers proud of them.

“The law of mother is love, the greatest, most powerful of all laws. We love our mothers for the same
reason that we love Jesus, because our mothers first loved us. The greatest word is God: the deepest word is
soul: the longest word is eternity: the dearest word is mother. The most precious thought is the thought of a
mother.”

Here Doctor Smith quoted, as elsewhere in his address, poems of tribute to mother. He called attention to the song
which had been sung by the Ministerial Band Quartet, “Mother, as I think of thee, 'tis but a step to
Calvary.”

Great mothers of the Bible, including Sarah, the mother of Isaac; the mother of Moses, who concealed him for three
months and later nursed him; Naomi, who was so motherly to Ruth that Ruth went with her into another land,
her home; Hannah, who dedicated her son to the Lord; Samson's mother, who by temperance made it possible for Samson
to take the Nazarite vow; the Shunamite woman, who sought out the prophet to restore her dead son to life;
and Mary, the mother of Jesus; were paid homage by the speaker.

The mothers of great men, Cromwell, (Continued on page 3)

TED COVINGTON IS 1925 BASEBALL CAPTAIN

J. M. C. (Ted) Covington will lead the Wildcat baseball team of 1925. Ted held down the hot third corner
on the varsity squad for the past two seasons, and next year will see him in his same place, stealing
many a hit from some hard-hitting opponent. Last year Ted was among the leading hitters on the squad, but this
last season he was not at his best, but next year he is expected toBe back among the leading swatters.
Covington is a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity. He is also a member of the Pi Kappa
Alpha, besides being halfback on the varsity football team and president of the Athletic Association for the coming year.

Davidson Will Be Host To Young People June 10-17

Baseball and Track Men Receive Athletic Letters

Baseball Players and Seven Cinder Path Men Receive Their Hard-worked-for D’s

JOHNSON ONLY FRESHMAN

Anderson, Williford, and Five Baseball Men Get First Letter

At a regular meeting of the Executive Committee of the Athletic Council last Tuesday night, May 6, varsity letters were
awarded to those who had earned them in baseball and track this year. Twelve baseball artists and seven cinder path
men received the coveted monogram.

First among the baseball men was Captain Boushee, who, as a Wildcat pitching ace, has covered himself with glory during
his last two years, although he has been seriously handicapped by a bad arm during the last season. He received
a D and two stars. Red McPherson was the second moundsman to get the D. He made the Varsity his
first year. He received a D and one star. “Red” Laird, the Red and Black diamond captain-elect, and stellar fielder
for the past two years, was awarded the monogram. Ted Covington, guardian of the hot corner, received the D and
a star. Sion, star shortstop, also received the D and one star. Sion’s superb fielding record at short has only
been surpassed by his prowess with the willow. Johnny Smith and Peewee Simpson, hefty protectors of first and second bases,
respectively, received the monogram. Both of these sackers are among the most dependable cogs in the Wildcat machine. Frank Alford,
star catcher and fielder, also received the D and one star.

Four Hundred Young Folks From All Over State to Attend Synod Convention

Over 400 young people from all over the state are expected to attend the annual seven-day conference of the Young
People of the Synod of North Carolina, to be held on this campus, beginning June 10. This is the sixth
annual conference of the Young People’s League of this state and will mark the third successive year that it has
been held at Davidson College. Dr. C. Richards has been placed in charge locally, with Lee McLean as local secretary.
Others who have volunteered to remain and lend their assistance are McBryde, Shaw, Woods, and J. M. Carr.

The League's motto is “Saved to Serve” while it has a three-fold aim, stated as follows: “By our combined efforts
to extend Christ's Kingdom at home and abroad. To enlist all the Young People of the Synod in the whole
program of our Church. The development of Christian life and character.” About 350 delegates are expected to attend.

(Continued on page 2)

Commencement Week Will Be Gala Time Of Year According To Plans Made By Seniors

From all present indications, commencement week will be the gala event of the college year. The Seniors have made all
arrangements and invitations have been extended to the other classes and to a host of friends to be present on
this occasion. It is expected that a larger crowd than usual will attend this year.

The commencement proper will start at 11 a.m. Sunday, June 1, at which time the Baccalaureate Sermon will be delivered
by the Rev. Dr. Edward Mack, D.D., of Union Theological Seminary. The annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A.
will be preached Sunday evening at 8:00 o'clock, by Rev. J. H. Henderlite, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Gastonia. The Seniors will attend both sermons in a body, clothed in their graduating caps and gowns.

Class day exercises will be held Monday afternoon, June 2, at which time the class poem will be read by
W. F. Galloway, and the class oration given by D. B. Walthall. R. R. Jones, president of the class, will
then present the college with the class gift. This is an ornamental gateway which is to be erected at the
southern entrance to the campus. It is to be of brick and limestone construction, with electric standards on either side,
and will be a lasting memory to the class of '24.

The fraternity halls on the Hill will be thrown open to the guests throughout commencement week and welcomed. General fraternity
receptions will be given Monday evening following the Club presentation at Shearer Hall.

The Board of Trustees will hold its regular meeting Tuesday morning and will be followed by the annual literary address.
Dr. W. D. Melton, LL.D., president of the University of South Carolina, has been secured to deliver this address. Dr.
Melton is a strong speaker and for many years was a prominent attorney at Columbia until chosen by the trustees
to become head of the university. Although he has been in office only three years, the university has shown marked
improvement in both attendance and work, due to his efforts.

The annual Alumni luncheon comes on Tuesday, at which time the Seniors will be guests and welcomed by the president
of the association. W. Z. Bradford has been chosen to express the appreciation of the Seniors. The Alumni for the
coming year are to be elected at this time. The faculty will give a reception at 5:00 o'clock. Exercises of
the literary societies, together with the Senior Oratorical contest, will take place Tuesday night. Warren Cox will preside and the
award of diplomas, trophies, and medals will be made by Dr. Thornton Whaling, Louisville Theological Seminary, and Dr. H. B.
Arbuckle. The crowning event of the evening is the Senior class feature at 10:30. No hint of the nature of
this could be learned, except that it is to be a rare treat.

J. I. Smith is valedictorian of the Senior class, having made the highest average during the entire four years that
he has been there. W. M. Cox has been elected as class valedictorian and will deliver the valedictory address Wednesday
morning. Following the address, the class flag will be lowered.

Hangchow College Will Receive Aid From Boys

Davidson Students to Donate to Chinese Institution—Warren Cox Will be on Faculty

Members of the local Y. M. C. A. cabinet are to conduct a room-to-room canvass Thursday evening, May 15, for
the purpose of collecting funds which will be forwarded to Hangchow Christian College, China. Every man will be asked to
sign a pledge for some certain amount. If he is unable to pay the pledge at once he may wait
and send it to Joe Garrison, who will have charge of the fund during the summer. Garrison plans to remain
in Davidson.

Hangchow Christian College is located in Chekiang province, 100 miles southwest of Shanghai. It occupies an important position in its
own vicinity for several reasons. In the first place, it is the only institution of higher learning in the entire
province of Chekiang. Besides, it is the only college in China in which the Southern Presbyterian Church has any share.
Hangchow is managed jointly by the Northern and Southern branches of the Presbyterian Church. At present, there are 200 students
and 22 instructors. The college owns 80 acres of land on which are two dormitories, a main hall, a chapel,
an observatory, an athletic field, and a boathouse. Of the 136 graduates, 47 have entered some line of definite Christian
service, either as ministers or “Y” secretaries. In addition, the college has supplied 52 teachers for the native Christian schools
and 37 Christian business men. Every graduate has been a professing Christian. Warren Cox has accepted the chair of chemistry
in the college, and his service will begin soon.

(Continued on page 2)

Subscribe to Hangchow Christian College Fund
