4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKINS................. Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE............... Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAIN............... Managing Editor
A. LAKE.......................... Managing Editor
B. ICE............................ Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY................. Editor
V. SELSER....................... Editor
M. BRADFORD.................... Associate Editor
C. WILDMAN..................... Associate Editor
COX.............................. Associate Editor
-----Alumni Editor
Subscription Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
O'CONNOR, E. P.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres.
PARKER, R. B.
APPLEBY, J. M.
PATTON, J. H.
BOWIE, A. V.
PIETS, W.
GARRISON, J. M.
RATCHFORD, B. U.
GIBBS, L. B.
REGEN, F. K.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
THOMPSON, P. L.
MILHOUS, J. F.
SHAW, F. L.
MILTON, W. E.
SMITH, C. F.
MOORE, J. E.
STORY, P. J.
MONK, C. F.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
MORROW, G. M.
WILSON, D. G.

EDITORIAL

LABOR UNDER DIFFICULTY

There is a certain feeling of pride and confidence which comes when a task is accomplished in the face of repeated handicaps. The Quips and Cranks staff should be the rightful possessor of just such a feeling. Their trials and troubles have been numberless, but they fought the thing through to the end, soliciting the aid of the Senior class and the student body, and now they stand upon the brink of success.

A financial debt of $800 and an income barely half large enough to cover the cost of this year’s annual was the ghost which stared them in the face when college opened. The old debt, left by last year’s graduating class, was paid first, in view of the fact that a special ruling of the faculty required that all old debts be cancelled before a publication should commence activity for the year. Then plans were laid, and quickly executed, to raise sufficient funds for this year’s Quips and Cranks. The staff bore the worry and labor, the student body the financial brunt. These distresses merely added to an already heavy burden. The compilation of material and the business duties necessarily attached, were copious enough. But, with all the delay of inadvertent circumstances, and the worry entailed, material for the 1924 Quips and Cranks is in the hands of the printer, and copies of the yearbook will be in the possession of students earlier this year than in many previous years.

The hats of the student body are off to the editor, the business manager, and all co-workers who have contributed to the early publication of Quips and Cranks. May the quality of the work equal the efficiency with which it was done.

A SERIOUS ACCUSATION

Administrations have come and gone, athletic policies have changed, standards of education have been accepted and new methods have later taken their place; every year a baby class is initiated and a Senior class is graduated. The alumnus of 10 years is a stranger when he comes upon the old campus. He sees a new Davidson—“Bigger and Better.”

There is one thing of permanence in the traditions and ideals of the old college, however. It is character—high ideals and standards of life, the fostering of worthy principles, the encouraging of noble aspirations. Upon this bedrock was the college founded to train Christian leaders for service in the world. Davidson was christened with these ideals, and she has been nurtured in the same spirit. With all the change of months and years she will retain these standards of manhood; with all the evolution of society, politics, religion, and what not, she will fly her banner high, and the emblazoned words Alenda Lux will never change their meaning.

When the college we are attending fails to build character, Davidson will be dead! Onto its name will be tacked, probably, an “ism” of some description to signify its connection with some modern movement for correcting the evils of the American youth.

There is a persistent movement afoot in America, in imitation of subsequent movements in Russia, Germany, Italy and other European countries, to open the minds of the college men and women of America to the problems of the world. These modernists would start a universal awakening that will lead college students to think for themselves. In a blind frenzy of enthusiasm, they are hitting here and there, spreading their propaganda right and left, fearful that the grand old ship of American youth will smash into a miserable wreck of bones and boards, ere their divine mission can be accomplished.

The movement has reached Davidson. There have been no organizers on the campus, it is true. There is no organization to preach the new doctrine of modernism. But, the spirit of the movement is here. There is a certain restlessness that has manifested itself in a number of ways, more noticeably in the Open Forum column of the Davidsonian. Serious charges have been made upon the student body of Davidson; charges that are for the most part false and unfounded. The accuser, with a hope of revolutionizing life on the campus, has looked at the situation through a powerful field glass—studying the situation (if we may assume that a student of Davidson is capable of studying). He has not paused long enough, however, to see that his piece is out of focus. He is too intent on the relief of what he supposes to be a serious situation to examine his instruments, or to question his methods of investigation. His view through an unfocused lens is a sad one. College life is distorted. Ideals and praiseworthy standards are blurred and indistinct. Ambition is ill-defined. Culture and learning are overshadowed by crip courses and laziness. Zeal and hard work are but filmy mists that float here and there hounded by a ghoul-like spirit, play. School spirit is lost, lost to sight forever! What a miserable, frightful situation for a college to find itself in! And Davidson is just one of the colleges of America upon which this pallor of death has fallen. College education is doomed. It is time for the laying on of hands. Shovel in the dirt. The body of college education is committed to the parasites and the worms of the soil! Selah.

A beautiful picture do the modernists paint. A number of accusations flung at the college man and woman cannot be discounted. They are true. Like every mortal being, the college student has his faults. Just as prone is he to sin and failure as are men and women of the world. He is normal. But, this conformity to the laws of nature is no just cause for the rubbish heap of criticism that has been laid at his door. The impression has been left that Davidson is going to the dogs, and the reasons assigned for this degeneration reflect on the character of the men who attend Davidson. Has there been any modification of Davidson standards? Is it possible that the character of the men who attend Davidson cannot measure up to that of the men who have gone out in the years past? Is there any indication that Davidson ideals have fallen, or that her traditions are trailing in the dust? The answer is easily given. Never, since the founding of the college 87 years ago, has the type of Davidson manhood been on a higher plane. Never have ideals been more lofty. The men who are entering the fields of service are ably filling the places of Davidson men who have gone before.

The athletic prowess of Davidson teams has not kept pace with the rapid growth of the college, and the teams have done well to break even during the past two or three seasons, but the far-famed Wildcat Spirit has never lagged. It is a grand old spirit that will never die, until Davidson is dead, despite the pessimistic warning from the modernists that “we have no spirit.” Strike, modernist, strike! There is need for reform at Davidson, and there is such a need in every college in America. But, strike with an aim and strike where there is a need. See things through a well-focused lens. The world has not all gone wrong. And, while you are reforming from your pessimistic belief of universal failure and evil in the American colleges, consider a new attitude toward the character of Davidson men! You believe in Davidson men; if you did not you would be in some other institution. Give them their just deserts—play fair with yourself and with Davidson.

Have you asked that girl up for Junior Week? Well, you certainly are a procrastinator. First thing you know someone else will have asked her, or she will be planning a trip to the country. Get in the swim—there is a stream of invitations going out on every mail.thing you know the males will be crowded to death.

Open Forum Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

ATTENTION!

As a whole, the Davidson student body thinks a lot of its three publications—the Annual, the Magazine, and “The Livest Wire on the Hill,” which is none other than The Davidsonian. Still, there is a number of men here by whom the publication of these literary works is taken as a matter of course, and is regarded as rather an experiment in journalistic endeavor or something of the kind. These are the ones who get their Davidsonians from the post office, merely glance at them, and discard them into the oblivion of the waste basket or the gutter. If there is a real mark of literary or journalistic work in it they never commend it, but if there is some unavoidable error or something printed not to their taste, they harp on it and dress the paper down good and strong. If there is a departure from the usual trend of thought in the college sheet, no one is quicker to blame or criticize. Perhaps these men do not appreciate the honest labor of those who are more interested in the college and who try to promote its development by publications that will attract attention outside of the college's scene of immediate operations. Many hours of toil are needed to produce any sort of college newspaper and unless one knows that his work is appreciated, he does not feel the compelling spirit which inspires him to produce real newspaper material. The Davidsonian represents in a small way a metropolitan newspaper, and the same amount of care is used in the selection of its material and in its composition. It has mistakes, but they are few as compared with many college newspapers. As a whole it is one of the best college papers published in the South, and every Davidson student should be justly proud of it. If you think that the Peanut Parcher gets off some rather sickly jokes, pitch in and write up a few that will do to print. Give them to the editor and he will appreciate anything that will go to help his part of the paper. If something printed in the paper does not suit your fancy, go to the editor about it and don’t say things in a half-disparaging way that accomplishes no good at all. And last, if you don’t care enough about the paper to read it, don’t throw it down in the middle of the street, thereby showing a contempt for it.

An Observer.

LOOKING TO THE FUTURE

It is the general opinion among members of the three upper classes that Freshmen have not entered into the activities of the campus, as have Freshmen of previous years, and that the affairs of the student body are regarded in a spirit of indifference by the new men. This criticism has been made on numerous occasions. Observation of Freshman activity and an investigation of the daily doings of the new men supports the criticism. Every member of the new class, and members of the upper classes, too, should give thought to student activities. How many branches of student endeavor are you interested in? How many minutes do you spend every week in the interest of the student body? Are you doing anything for your college, or are you leading a narrow, selfish existence, with a thought for no one but yourself? The standard of Davidson College is just as truly set by our athletic teams, our debating teams, our publications, Y. M. C. A. deputations, the Glee Club, orchestras, and other student organizations, as by scholarship records and Phi Beta Kappa keys. All these things combine to make a name for the college. There is a danger that one man may overload himself with too many outside duties, to the neglect of his class work. There are few men, however, who do this, and there is little fear that such a thing will happen. The cause for concern is that too many men totally neglect college activities—rarely for studies, but for afternoon sleeping, the Saturday Evening Post and fruitless bull sessions. If a football team is good one year it is often traced to the fact that the Freshman class four years ago took an interest in football. If the Davidsonian is a good college weekly this year it is because the yearlings of four years ago put their shoulders to the wheel. Freshman participation in campus activities is essential to the success of those campus activities in the years to come. Freshmen, if you would have athletic teams of which you are proud, when you become Seniors; if you would have the Y. M. C. A. that will accomplish the maximum good; if you would have worthy publications, now is the time to start the good work. Identify yourself with some activity, that in which you are most interested, and work with a zealous effort.

Just any old time you think the publications need a little more working capital, start speculating on how much good could be accomplished with an income from the student body.

SAXOPHONES AND SUCH

The funniest thing I can imagine besides the furrowed brow of an aged prune, and playing lawn tennis with bass fiddles, would be a saxophone player with the heebie-jeebies. Hot durn, every time he’d start playin’ he’d start heebie-jeebying and that would be just too maculiar for anything. I started to write this poem in rhyme so’s it wouldn’t seem so much like Jack Frost ’n Vachel Lindsay ’n Cole Philips ’n the rest of these imagist fellers, but when I got to studyin’, I couldn’t recollect but one fit word to rhyme with sax, ’n that was moan. I also thought of tone, but right off I recognized the preposterousness of such a cacophonous combination, realizing the extraneousness of such a term to such an implement. I finally managed to get together three good words which sounded all right and highly harmonious together, they being sax, moan and loan. I agreed right off that all three of ’em was inseparable and would make a right decent poem, but right then my inspiration trundled off to parts unknown. I couldn't think of any more rhyme words so the rest of this eulogy will be free, blank, polyphonic prose, unrhymed and unwarranted.

As I started off in the preliminaries to explain, saxophoning would be funnier than a walking stick if said saxophoning was accompanied by a violent stroke of heebie-jeebies. Sax blowers seem to have a right serious time keeping up with the trumpets ’n things, anyway. They always sound to be about a few notes tardier than the rest. Maybe that’s ‘cause the saxers have a longer space to hunt up and down to find the right note. ’N anyway, they have to blow harder than anyone else ‘cause look at the holes where all the air gets out before it gets to the bottom. Them holes is for ventilation, they say, so the reeds won't rust. I heard a little poem once what said:

Some saxes are straight,
And some ain't, they say;
The moral is easy—
While there's sun make hay.
When saxes are crooked,
The better they play:
Moral—most players
Are built the same way.

I know a rube what wanted to buy a sax one time and when the saleslady asked him what kind he wanted he was stunned. He didn’t know there was but one kind. “Do you want a C Soprano or a Bass?” she asked. “Nome. Gimme a whiskey tenor,” the hayseed replied. The saleslady explained that she did not have a tenor saxophone but that she had a clarinet. Right off the rube kicked on that proposition ‘cause he knew a girl named Clara and he didn’t want anything named after that woman. Rube finally decided he didn’t want any sax anyway so long’s he had a good job in the barrel factory and didn’t need to make a livin’ by the sweat of his breath. He went off reciting:

I'd rather be a hired man,
Yes, by heck!
Than a saxophone tooter
With a string around my neck.
I'd work day and night,
Yes, by darn!
But I couldn't blow a living
Through a perforated horn.

The having of heebie-jeebies is accompanied by a right smart of pain, I’ve been told. Getting back to the text announced before the main bout began, I would reiterate that a sax blower with the Spark Pluggian plague would be one of the most mirthful sights since grandpa’s wooden leg was mistook for his other leg and I drove a nail into the wrong one whilst he was asleep. Gosh! I like to laughed my fool self to death.

TED I. BEAR.