THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

Athletic Field in Fair Condition for Football; Modern American Town

‘Silegthans Will Hold Crowd of One Thousand—More for Three Thousand Soon to Arrive

With five Varsity games scheduled for Richardson Field this season, the authorities have been working all summer to get it
in shape for the coming encounters. The sod laid down last spring was found to be thickly populated with weeds
and during the summer was ploughed up. Fourteen bushels of Bermuda grass seed were sown, with 500 pounds of limestone
fertilizer. The lack of rain has kept the grass back and Coach Younger has asked everyone as far as possible
to keep off the playing field so that it may be in top condition for the first game.

The athletic department is also well prepared to meet the crowds expected on Richardson Field this season. At present, there
are bleachers on hand with a capacity of 1,000 that will be up before the Elon game. Three thousand more
seats have been ordered by Graduate Manager Douglas. These may be in before the season opens, but they are not
expected until the second home game. With a seating capacity of 4,000, the large crowds can be easily handled.

The baseball infield is in perfect condition. A smooth carpet of sod covers its surface. With such a plant to
start out with, Davidson may hope to have more and more games played on the Hill.

Officers Address Band in Year’s First Meeting

The Ministerial Band held its first meeting in Shearer Hall, Sunday afternoon, with a large number in attendance. After the
devotional exercises, the old and new men proceeded to get acquainted with each other. Alfred Moffett, the president, then outlined
the work of the Band for the coming year. He emphasized the necessity for consecration, for prayer, and for brotherly
love on the campus. Each of the following men made short talks to the Band: A. H. Hollingsworth, vice-president; P.
B. Freeland, treasurer; Don Stewart, chairman of the devotional committee; J. P. Gladney, secretary; L. L. Deck, chairman of the
social committee. Deck announced a feed to take place next Saturday night.

New York Cafe
Davidson, N. C.
When Hungry Call On Us

VICTORY CAFE
A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service
West Trade and Poplar Streets
Charlotte
We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

Davidson Converted Into Modern American Town

By expending the sum of approximately $250,000 on various municipal and private enterprises, the little village of Davidson has in
three short summer months transformed itself into a modern American town. Conspicuous among these improvements are the beautifully asphalted or
finely graded streets which represent an outlay of over $50,000. An even more extensive paving program is planned for the
immediate future. None of the other up-to-date conveniences have been more enthusiastically welcomed than the new lighting and water plants
which represent a value of $80,000. Also, a splendid new sewer system was secured for $30,000. But the progressive Davidsonians
refuse to content themselves with even this lavish outlay and expect, at an early date, to float a bond issue
of approximately $80,000 for the purpose of constructing a huge pipeline to Cathey’s Creek. A greatly increased water supply is
necessitated since the town has contracted to supply the college with water.

The citizens of Davidson reserve as their especial object of pride the handsome new school building which has just been
completed. It is modern in every respect and has more than doubled the capacity as well as the convenience of
the school. The building was erected at a cost of $40,000, more than twice the value of the old plant.
This additional new building makes Davidson High one of the model A-grade schools in the state.

Private individuals have been keeping up with the rapid pace set by the municipal authorities. A new hotel, spacious and
modern, has just been finished and supplies a long-standing need of the town. Three attractive residences have been constructed on
Concord Street by Messrs. Sloan, Thies, and Sample, each representing a heavy expenditure. Mr. Plummer Stewart, who is chairman of
the County Board of Education from Charlotte; Mr. J. M. Mathews, who is county superintendent of education, and Supt. J.
C. Bailey, of the high school, were present at the dedication exercises.

On Friday night, September 12, at 8:00 o'clock, the building was formally dedicated. The auditorium was filled to capacity. The
program began sharply at 8:00 o'clock.

Program:
1. “The Star-Spangled Banner.”
2. Invocation—Rev. J. W. Bennett, pastor of the local Methodist Church.
3. Presentation of Building—Dr. J. M. McConnell.
4. Response and Acceptance—Mayor H. Hamilton.
5. Short Talk—Supt. J. C. Bailey, Jr.
6. Song—HENDRIX, COVINGTON AND PRICE
7. Short Talk—Mr. D. G. Wilson led the singing. Piggy Martin, Wilson, Don Stewart, and Tom Barr rendered a quartet
during the service, Wallace Purdy accompanying. Martin and Mr. Williams led in prayer.J. M. Mathews. to uphold the high standards,
the honor sys- tem of Davidson, and to help make our campus a cleaner campus on which to live.

8. Song—"Old North State."

9. Short Talk—Mr. M. A. Abernathy, counsellor of local “Junior Order.” “Christ is willing to be the friend of every-
one. What are you going to do? Will you be of the true type of man of whom Davidson can
be proud? What are you going to do for Davidson? What will Davidson mean to you, and what will you
mean to Davidson? Will you leave here a better man for having attended Davidson, and will Davidson be a better
place for your having been here? We must realize that Davidson is a Christian college, and that Christ's ideals must
be upheld. Without the high moral standards and Christian fellowship Davidson would no longer be Davidson. Help Davidson to turn
out great men, that the school we love may be a greater school.”

10. Presentation of Bible from “Junior Order”—Rev. J. W. Bennett.

11. Presentation of flag from “Junior Order”—Mayor C. H. Hamilton.

12. Acceptance and Concluding Remarks—Prof. A. Currie, secretary school board, and who was the presiding officer of the occasion.

13. Song—"America.”

LIBRARY NEWS

A good number of new books have been added to the Library during the past summer. These books cover a
wide range of topics and are all well worth investigating. Among them are a goodly number of Spanish books. Probably
one of the most interesting, especially to students of economics, is Money, by William Trufant Foster and Waddill Catchings. Money
is the subject that touches the interests of many people more frequently than any other. In this book Mr. Foster
and Mr. Catchings deal with the subject in a new way, and strictly in accord with what is going on
in banking and business.

H. G. Wells makes a contribution by the name of The Story of a Great Schoolmaster. In this book Mr.
Wells tells the story of his friend, F. W. Sanderson, headmaster of Oundle School, and of his new ideas in
education. A few of the other books of interest are: Woodrow Wilson; The Dreamer and The Dream, by Julian Lamar
Knight; Source Book in Philosophy of Education, by William Heard Kilpatrick; Twenty-Five Years of American Education, by S. L. Kandel.

Ted Covington took for his theme “The Spirit of Athletics.” “The Davidson spirit, of which we are justly proud, came
from the spirit of athletics. We must support our athletics to uphold our true Davidson spirit. This spirit is that
of fair play, of gentlemanly conduct to our opponents on the field. We must develop that spirit to make friends
for our college. We hear fellows saying that the old Davidson spirit is dying. Let us ask ourselves why this
should be so. What am I doing to make it die? What am I leaving undone that would help it
live? Get behind the old Davidson spirit and make it grow.”

Harry Price was the last speaker of the evening. His thoughts were directed along the line of making Christ our
friend, and making ourselves His friends. “I am glad to say a word for Christ,” he began, “because He is
the most misunderstood man in history. We so often think of Him as being far off, a sort of negative
character that lived above the world, a sort of effeminate man. But He is very positive, very real, and near
at hand.”

Who’s Who '24-'25

Student Body President—J. P. Hendrix.
Vice-President—T. S. Baker.
Vice-President—N. E. Sappenfield.
Secretary—J. F. Pinkney.
Y. M. C. A. President—H. B. Price.
Vice-President—R. W. Oeland.
Secretary—A. H. Hollingsworth.
Senior Class President—J. R. Briggs.
Vice-President—A. M. Martin.
Secretary—W. M. Gracey.
Junior Class President—H. L. Shaw.
Vice-President—B. T. Crayton.
Secretary—T. S. Lawson.
Sophomore Class President—W. T. Covington.
Vice-President—J. W. Keerans.
Secretary—W. S. Woods.
Davidsonian Editor—C. M. S. McIlwaine.
Business Manager—K. S. McAlpine.
Magazine Editor—A. M. Martin.
Business Manager—L. L. Brown.
Annual Editor—J. A. Lake.
Business Manager—T. B. Brown.

STUDENT COUNCIL

Seniors
J. P. Hendrix.
J. R. Briggs.
S. Beall.
T. F. Milhous.
R. W. Oeland.
J. H. Patton.

Juniors
H. L. Shaw.
A. H. Hollingsworth.
T. S. Baker.
N. W. Sappenfield.

Sophomores
T. Covington.
C. Murchison.

COURT OF CONTROL

Senior Class
C. Ramsey, Judge.
T. F. Staley.
G. Patterson.
W. Lewis.

Junior Class
R. Hudson.
F. Monk.

Sophomore Class
H. McConnell.
C. Murchison.

Athletic Association
President—J. M. Covington.
Vice-President—T. S. Baker.
Secretary-Treasurer—W. A. Christian.
Football Captain—C. M. Davis.
Manager—A. W. McAlister.
Basketball Captain—R. E. Boggs.
Manager—R. W. Oeland.
Wrestling Captain—N. Patterson.
Manager—N. Patterson.

Dramatic Club
President—A. M. Martin.

Glee Club
President—J. H. Patton.

THREE PROFESSORS ADDED (Continued from page 1)

Doctor Clark will have complete charge of the German department, filling the vacancy left by Professor Foreman, who will teach
Bible exclusively this year. Professor Zeliff was last year assistant professor of botany at Alabama Polytechnical Institute, Auburn, Ala. This
year he will assist Doctor Porter in the teaching of biology, zoology, and botany. He attended Lafayette College and the
University of Pennsylvania, where he received the A.B. and M.S. degrees respectively. His home is in Washingtonville, Pa.

Captain Daugherty comes to Davidson to take over the work of Captain Ellis, whose four years expired last spring. He
will be property officer and have charge of the Senior classes in military science. Formerly Captain Daugherty was attached to
the Officers’ Infantry School at Fort Benning, Ga. He joined the army in 1915, going overseas with the Eighth Infantry,
and remaining in Germany two years after the signing of the armistice. He is a native of New Mexico and
attended the New Mexico Military Academy.

Sergeant J. L. Kirby now holds the position in the R. O. T. C. department formerly held by Sergeant Ryan,
who has been transferred to Fort Benning, Ga. Sergeant Kirby comes from the Motor Repair section, No. 86, and is
stationed here indefinitely.
