THEDAVISONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 20, 1924 No. 10

Wildcats Hold Carolina to Two Field Goals

Greensboro College and Converse Glee Clubs Will Give Concerts in Shearer

Annual to Benefit by the Two Performances Given by Girls

REPRESENT TWO STATES - Both Organizations Are Well Trained and Will Give Worthwhile Programs

The Glee Club of the Greensboro College for Women will appear before a Davidson audience this evening for the first
time. Under the auspices of the annual, Quips and Cranks, this talented musical organization of young ladies from the Greensboro
College is to give a varied program of instrumental and vocal numbers in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. Coming here
from Charlotte, where they staged an entertainment last evening, they expect to arrive in Davidson this afternoon at 3:00 o'clock.
The party, composed of 30 members, is going to be entertained by the ladies of Davidson and will spend the
night here. Advance sale of the tickets is reported good. All proceeds from the concert will be turned over to
the Quips and Cranks. Tickets, at $1.00, 75c, and 50c, have been on sale in the White Drug Store during
the past week. Those who have failed to get tickets may do so at Shearer Hall this evening.

This is the first of a series of trips through North Carolina that the Greensboro College Glee Club will make
during the present year. They have planned a well-balanced and peppy program. In addition to the usual choruses, solos, and
string and jazz orchestra selections, the Greensboro girls will introduce several new and original features.

On Tuesday evening, November 25th, the Converse College Glee Club will give a program in Shearer Hall. The club consists
of 40 members who come highly recommended as to their ability to sing and entertain audiences that care for music
in the forms of (Continued on page 6)

Fall Golf Tournaments Attract Much Attention

Dozens of Pill Chasers Flock on the Greens Every Pretty Afternoon

Davidson's Fall Golf Tournament is now under way, several matches having been already played. This year the entrants were divided
into two flights according to the qualifying scores turned in previous to the start of the tournament. Those turning in
a score better than 45 were placed in the first flight, while those having scores above 45 are in the
second flight. Eight men qualified for the first flight and 22 for the second. No scores are yet available from
men in the second flight but in the first three matches have been completed. Trotter and Earnhardt were among the
first to play, Trotter winning. Sid Jones won from Boyce Martin, and Milhous was victor in the game with Walker.
Milhous then played Sid Jones and won, which places him in position as one of the players for the semi-finals.
Malloy and Reeves are yet to play, but the winner will play Trotter for a place in the semi-finals.

Men to compose the regular golf team are to be picked in a slightly different fashion this year, the details
of which have not been completely worked out. Much more interest is being taken in golf this fall than before
and more men are entered in the tournament than were last year. Due to work on the course it is
in better condition than formerly and thus attracts men to play.

Interest Arouses In the Societies As Contest Nears

Interest in the four literary societies has been continually rising within the last few weeks. With the election of new
officers and the beginning of new terms, enthusiasm and “pep” in the work has increased. During the fall only one
contest was held, the tryouts for the intercollegiate debating team, in which the four societies divided honors, each furnishing one
man—Wharton (Metro.), Williams (Eu.), Hollingsworth (Pan.), and Ratchford, alternate (Phi.). Before the societies now lie numerous contests. The first will
be the Junior-Senior debate, the preliminaries of which will be held during the last of this month, and the finals
on December 10th. Next will come the Senior oratorical contest. The preliminaries for this will be held on December 12th
and the finals at commencement. After exams there will be a triangular Freshman debate between Davidson, Carolina and Wake Forest.
There will be two three-man teams from here. The exact dates for the preliminaries will be announced later. Much interest
was taken in this debate last year and our team won over Carolina by a unanimous decision. The Fresh-Soph debates
will not be until next spring. The Juniors have not yet decided on the date for their speeches. Last (Continued
on page 8)

However, before the societies now lie numerous contests.

College Loses Beloved Trustee Through Death

Has Always Been Interested in Davidson Students—Member of Executive Committee

In the death of Mr. John Phifer Allison, of Concord, N. C., on Tuesday, November 11th, Davidson has lost a
true and faithful friend. Mr. Allison was born in Concord, August 22, 1848. He came of a family that took
a prominent part in the Revolutionary assemblies of the state and United States Congress. While considerably hampered in his youth
by a delicate physique, he later gained strength and lived a busy and useful life. Finishing the Concord schools, he
attended Bingham’s Military School, and afterwards entered the Mercantile College, in Baltimore, Md., where he graduated in 1867. Returning home
he began merchandising in 1869 with his father. He made a signal success at this work, and though 76 years
old at his death was still active in the business world and a booster of civic improvements.

He always had the interests of Davidson at heart. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1912 and
from that time until his death served on the Executive Committee. At the time of his death he was actively
assisting some of the boys in their work at Davidson, a conclusive proof of his faith in, and loyalty to,
the young men of Davidson College. The heartfelt sympathy of the student body, faculty and trustees goes out to the
bereaved family. The faculty sent floral offerings. Among those attending the funeral from Davidson were Dr. and Mrs. W. R.
Grey, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. McConnell, Dr. and Mrs. J. M. Douglas, Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr. C. R.
Harding, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards, Professor and Mrs. E. S. Erwin, and Professor and Mrs. A. Currie. Mr.
Allison was an uncle of the Misses Young, of Davidson, and a cousin of Professor and Mrs. Erwin. He has
a host of friends in Davidson and Concord.

Dramatic Club Gives Three One-Act Plays Written by Students

All Three Plays Were Cleverly Enacted—Full House Greets the Performers

The three one-act plays presented by the Davidson Dramatic Club on last Saturday in Shearer Hall was filled almost to
its capacity with visitors and students. On account of the regular Saturday night movie, the plays were postponed until a
late hour, but this apparently did not interfere with the attendance.

The first play, Understudying Launcelot, was written by Wood Brown. The scene was laid in a Southern Railway Pullman, between
Hickory and Statesville. It was just happened to be two Davidson boys returning from their vacation on the train. At
Hickory, a young lady, accompanied by her father, boarded the train. Al, the hero of the play, found himself accidentally
seated beside the young lady, who proves to be the one whom he holds dear to his heart. A period
of 30 minutes followed, during which the two engaged in confidential conversation, while the father and the other member of
the party were in the smoker arguing over the morals of the younger generation.

After this period the lights suddenly went out and the train was wrecked. In the excitement it was proven that
the young are those who maintain a level head, while the old are frightened out of their wits. The scene
ended in the dark with the acceptance of the hero by the heroine.

The second play, Ellen, by D. M. Currie and Prof. E. J. Erwin, took place in a mountain cottage. It
happened that Charlie Williams, the lover of Ellen, wanting her father out of thisway, attended a camp meeting and said
he had obtained religion. As a result of this, he reported several of his friends, including Ellen's father, to the
officers for bootlegging. Although left and without a bite to eat, Ellen refused to marry the man who was a
traitor to her father. The third play, Blue Blood, was written by C.F. Smith. The setting was in a newspaper
office in Elliston, Miss. Paul Courtney, manager of the newspaper, fell in love with his society editor, a pretty young
Northerner. His aunt, prejudiced against the North since the war, greatly objected to her nephew's affection for his employee. The
latter, though, by her presence of mind, saved Paul from a serious controversy with an enemy of his, thus winning
the good will of the aunt and also her consent to the wedding. Andy, the janitor, added humor to the
play. This year Professor Erwin, director of the (Continued on page 6)

ALL-CLASS BASKETBALL TEAM

The following all-class basketball team will of course not bring satisfaction to all who take notice, but undoubtedly represents the
best in the tournament. In some cases, men may be on one team where there is only a shadow of
difference between him and one on another.

First Team:
Faucette - Right forward
Huie - Left guard
Anderson - Center
Price (Capt.) - Right guard
Simpson - Left guard

Second Team:
Trotter - Right forward
Lawson (Capt.) - Left guard
Cooke - Center
Goodykoontz - Right guard
Keerans - Left guard

The Shaw Concert Company Delights Davidson Audience

The second number of the Piedmont Lyceum, sponsored by the Junior Class, was presented in Shearer Hall, Monday night, November
17th. The members of the Shaw Concert Company, by whom the performance was presented, were headed by Mrs. Frances I.
Shaw, pianist. Four versatile young men musicians assisted her. The Shaw Concert Company, regarded as one of the best numbers
on Lyceum circuits, presented a varied and interesting program, consisting of brass, piano, violin, and xylophone solos, brass duets and
trios, interspersed with vocal trios; making in all one of the most enjoyable and profitable entertainments ever presented here. Each
an artist on one or more instruments and showing the perfection of competent direction, this group of musicians played themselves
into the hearts of the hearers, who, with reluctance, bade them good-bye after the closing number. Mrs. Shaw is fully
competent to direct such a company. A talented musician, excellent soloist, and perfect accompanist, she deserves a large portion of
credit for such a splendid performance. She has been on circuits for the past six years, being associated (Continued on
page 6)

Identity of Christ Is Theme of Judge Frazer

Supreme Court Judge of South Carolina Discussed the Legal Aspect of Christ

Judge T. B. Fraser, of the Supreme Court of South Carolina, spoke to an attentive audience at the Y. M.
C. A. meeting last Sunday. Judge Fraser graduated from Davidson in 1881, and since then has been a loyal alumnus.
He has been signally honored in receiving the highest honor conferrable upon a member of the legal profession in South
Carolina, a seat on the Supreme Court bench of the state. Judge Fraser, in a unique approach from a strictly
legal viewpoint, proved conclusively to his hearers from circumstantial evidence alone that Christ was the promised Messiah. “Jesus Christ is
the Messiah and did rise from the dead,” began the speaker. That He is the Messiah must be proven by
circumstantial evidence. There is circumstantial evidence that proves much and there is circumstantial evidence that proves nothing. “Two small boys
were talking. One was describing a rabbit he had seen, as having large ears, large eyes, a brownish color, and
a little jump as he ran. ‘I saw that same rabbit last week,’ responded the other boy. Circumstantial evidence may
prove nothing. “On the other hand, if one were trying to find a man, knowing that he had red hair,
a mole on his left cheek, a scar under his right ear, and the little finger cut off of his
right hand, there would not be one chance in a million that there could be found two men answering this
description. Circumstantial evidence may prove very conclusively, if the circumstances are numerous and strong enough.” The speaker based his arguments
on the prophecies in the Old Testament, prophesied from one thousand to four hundred years before the birth of Christ.
No one ventures to deny that these were not written long before the time of Christ. (Continued on page 3)

Heavy and Experienced Tar Heel Team Fails to Cross the Davidson Goal Line

Thin Red Line Holds Stiff Defense All Through Game

HACKNEY DROP-KICKS

Largest Crowd Ever On Davidson Athletic Field Watches Team Uphold Reputation

Carolina won 6-0; but six thousand five hundred saw the thin red line hold off the smashing Tar Heel backs
for 57 minutes and keep their goal line inviolate, only to lose in the final moments when Bunn Hackney made
two drop-kicks good for the only counters of the game. It was Home-Coming Day on Richardson Field, and the crowd
which packed the stands saw the gamest defense ever staged on a Carolina gridiron. Undaunted by the six-point lead, the
Wildcats sent the stands into a frenzy with a perfect aerial attack which netted 55 yards as the final whistle
blew. It was a fitting climax to a great game. Outweighed 18 pounds in the line, the Wildcats were unable
to stop the march of the Carolina backs in midfield, but inside the danger zone the Tar Heels were thrown
for losses and forced to kick. Four drop-kicks failed, but the Carolina team was not to be denied, and with
Devin and Merritt leading the attack marched to the 10-yard line. The Wildcats stopped the onward march, but Hackney's toe
gave the Tar Heels a three-point lead. After Robinson intercepted a pass, the thin red line held Carolina a sixth
time and Hackney was called on again to add the final three points. With less than a minute to play,
the Wildcats made 55 yards only to be halted by the time-keeper. Davidson won the toss and kicked to Carolina.
After an interchange of punts, the Tar Heels marched down the field to a first down on Davidson's four-yard line.
The Red and Black forwards threw Merritt and Underwood for losses on the next plays, and on the third down
Captain Davis picked up (Continued on page 6)

Basketball Gets Early Impetus on Local Court

Nine Tried Men Start Early Practice For Coming Season—Three Letter Men

Nine men, tried and true, who had been chosen by Coach Monk to compose his tentative squad, were present at
the first varsity basketball practice of the year on last Thursday night. The squad at present is composed of T.
F. Staley, Beall, Spec McConnell, all of last year’s varsity; Litch Huie, of the varsity squad, and Cooke, Anderson, Faucette,
Keerans, Goodykoontz, all of whom are class stars. Regular practice began this week. Each of the above-named men is of
superlative calibre, having demonstrated his ability either in varsity struggles or in the class tournaments. Mac Beall is a three-year
letter man; Staley, who is a Senior, has won the monogram for two years; Spec McConnell has also played varsity
basketball for three years. Huie has been the individual star of the '26 team since his first year; Cooke won
distinction for stellar playing on the Junior team at the center position. Tom Anderson, captain and star of the Soph
team, is one of the most brilliant basketeers in the Wildcat lair. He rolled up a total number of points
this year far in excess of his nearest rival, scoring the record total of 26 points in one game. His
team- (Continued on page 8)
