THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00
5th and College Streets
Charlotte

Feeds! Feeds! Feeds!
Let Me Supply Your Feeds
H. M. Johnston
Phone 20

Porter—"This train goes to Syracuse and all points west.”
Old Lady—"Well, I want to go to Buffalo, and I don't care which way it points.”

Ike Sellars says that one day Goat Lewis stuck his fingers in the family horse's mouth to see how many teeth it had; then the horse closed its mouth to see how many fingers Goat had.

“I don't care much for a dark horse,” gargled Bill Glenn, “but I'm strong for the white mule.”

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a l-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well.
Makes the next cigar taste better.
Sealed in its Purity Package
WRIGLEY'S
SPEARMINT GUM

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

SERVICE SATISFACTION
That’s what we give
Cleaning and Pressing
Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit

Scofield Tea Room:
Home Cooking
Good Eats All the Time

Wanted to be Invited

A flapper went to a doctor where she said she wouldn't and he vaccinated her.

“Ever hear the story of the Golden Fleece?”
“No, do they bite?”

One of our well-known professors was playing his first game of golf. He mightily happened to drive the ball about half a mile. “Now where do I run?” he yelled excitedly.

Our Latest Song Hit
“The Hobo's Mother's Lament,”
“Where Is My Wandering Willie Tonight.”

Soph—“I heard Ben Franklin complaining the other day that he had lost his appetite. I yelled to him to come get on his rubbers, so Ben had to drop the key and run, for the wire swung up like a cloud.”

Ben Franklin
Benefactor of the Davidson Students
Efforts of Great Statesman and Inventor Combine to Illumine Study Halls

Some several hundred years ago Ben Franklin braved the elements on a dark and stormy night, put on his yellow slicker and C. T. C. cap and waded out into the pasture. His idea of a good time was to fly a kite, and it didn’t matter whether it was stormy or not; old Ben had to have a good time. Tying his Phi Beta key to the end of the string, he gradually let the kite go higher and higher until it stopped in the middle of the air. A bolt of lightning staged a Dempsey-Willard show, and Ben, on the other end, received a shock and the key lit up like a crown of glory.

“What'll I Do?” The sparks were playing when Ben's wife yelled to him to come get on his rubbers. While his feet were soaking in hot mustard water, Ben was thinking. Next morning he told Thomas Alva what he had discovered. Tom pulled all the air out of an empty bottle and put some of Ben's electricity in it, thus the first electric light was invented.

And now let us see what effect these inventions are to have on future generations. All institutions of higher learning were soon equipped with these powerful new lights, and thus in the early part of the 20th century, Davidson was completely outfitted with the new dark chasers. “A wonderful system, it will last for years,” was what was said at the time.

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high-tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

Manhattan Shirts
The Globe Clothing Co.

We are receiving daily shipments of FALL AND WINTER CLOTHES
Latest Styles
Selz Six $ Shoes

Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

It has been told around the campus that last Monday a certain professor had a royal battle in his classroom, and the score was 29 to 0 in favor of said professor. He did all the shooting.

A certain professor called upon Wick Black in class the other day, and then upon Norwood. “Sam, you must marry that Miss White,” he said.had received the commissary to turn on the lights. “They girl. Why, everybody in town misses her.” opinions of both members of the class, he will come on presently, Aha.” you say, and I BUNDEEE “Why should I kick? This said, “Now, we have the Black and White settle down to your Cosmopolitan, Just as town ain't so big.” Oft SE you arrive at the hottest part, the 50-watt Mazda throws a one-hoss shay stunt and I'm Tom Baker—" Did you know it there Believe It Or Not immediately a chorus of “Light,” “Go to are four rows on the Hill this year? thunder, West.” and other choice phrases fill Cy “Conductor” Briges—"I'll bite. Where are they?” Sellars, the air. In the olden days the boys were J O H N S O N S they? bol) ONKOL Get) Ce NUN one such jokers. “They merely laughed and yelled Tomeat—" Alvin Rowe, Carter Rowe, Dormitory Row, and Jethro.” : ie SARS tad: ; 6 went out?” then lit a candle and resumed Two Doors Below Book Store aca Charlie’s Battle Cry "Go get 'em, Wild iit studies. Charlie says: “It's tough to pay 50 cents Sats. The direct system can't hold a candle to for steak, but when you don't it's even Lee the indirect. This system gets the snake's tougher,” ear muffs for being complex. Anything may Tennis Tournament for happen and so the stude is kept in suspense Charlotte Someone said he wouldn't be a widow's continually. The first indication of trouble second husband. Personally, we'd rather he Students Starts Tuesday is a gradual fading of the beauty of the her second husband than her first. light. Slowly it loses its brilliance and takes Transfer Company a on the color of an old brick. Then it stays Geo. Ragan (struggling across the campus Contenders for Varsity Will Seek at red heat for a few minutes, gives a last with a law book)—"Gee, but I've got a heavy Places in Court Play Next flutter and goes out. It may come on again course this year. within half an hour if all conditions are favorable. Personally I think this is all done Ikey’s short story: “A BC D goldfish.” A tennis tournament, open to all students with the exception of the four members of last year’s varsity team, began Tuesday and will continue two or three weeks until a winner is chosen and the four high men selected. This tournament was planned by Mac Beall, manager of the varsity team. Since the weather has been bad and little if any interest has been shown in tennis thus far, only 30 men are entered. However, at least 30 more are expected. Quite a number of the men entered have been playing tennis regularly since school started and many fast matches will be played. Among the old men who are showing good form are Hugh Wells, McCutcheon, Wood, Brown and Parker. There are also a few Freshmen who play exceptionally well. When the tournament is over the four high men will challenge the four letter men in tennis for places on this year’s varsity team. Eleven tennis courts are now in good condition. Most of the credit for this goes to Mac Beall, who with a few others has done much for the tennis situation at Davidson.

For some good purpose and is really beneficial because: 1st, It gives the victim a chance to get to the window and exercise his lungs. This is very good for one after a hard ten minutes of study. 2nd, It enriches the vocabulary. Statistics show if the lights go off four times in the course of an evening an intelligent Freshman, (Continued on page 6)

“What's the excitement on the campus?” asked Skit. “Is it a Fresh parade, or has Fresh Frantz stopped talking?” Flagman Briggs—"Neither one, Skit, Yeargen is twenty-one today, and they are trying to put shoes on him.”

Three Davidson boys were eating in an Asheville restaurant. They ordered ham sandwiches. Just as they started to eat a mouse beneath the counter squeaked. One of the boys opened his sandwich quickly. “Ain't in mine.” he announced, cheerfully.

Abie Schniggiefritz (in butcher shop) “Gimme a pound of dot salmon.” Butcher—"That’s not salmon, that’s ham.” Abie—"Who asked you vot it vas?

“Didja hear about the cruel New York police?” “No, What did they do?” “Cut off a burglar’s retreat.”

WHITE DRUG COMPANY Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Victrolas! Furniture, Rugs Draperies and Interior Decorations We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms Society Halls, Etc.