THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924

Mr. Brown and Mr. Robinson, trustees of Davidson College, were guests of Dr. and Mrs. Erwin for dinner Wednesday.

SPARE TIME POSITIONS FOR STUDENTS
Greatest opportunity, “Life of Woodrow Wilson,” by Josephus Daniels, Secretary Navy, associate of former President. Big book, handsomely illustrated. Low price. Best terms to representatives. Credit given. Send for free outfit at once. Make money fast. Authorship is guarantee of authenticity. Universal House, College Department, 540 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

BRUISES
Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with light cloth. Repeat every few hours.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows.
221 West Trade St.

Speaker (in chapel)—“Before I close, allow me to repeat the words of Webster.”
Dope—“Great, going to start on the dictionary.”

Scott, let’s go!
Speir—“What's the difference between a fool and a fish?”
Billy Story—“I'll bite, what is it?”
Speir—“If YOU bite, there isn’t any.”

Love is something like a lizard,
Wraps its tail around your heart,
And nibbles at your gizzard.

Jethro is so dumb he’s wondering what forest preserves taste like.

Dick is musical. At the age of three he played on a linoleum.

Lias Faison—“Where are you taking that cow?”
Fresh Brand—“To the bank.”
L. F.—“What for?”
F. B.—“Have her milk certified.”

Flake—“Waiter, milk and two shredded wheat.”
Waiter—“Cow juice and two straw pillows.”

English conjugation at “prohibition” in 1935:
Bevo.
Beverage.
Budweiser.
Beer.
Milk Shake.
Belly ache.
Soda.
Pop.

Sporting Youth (In Three Acts)
1st Act—A. D. Malloy.
2nd Act—A. D. Malloy.
3rd Act—A. D. Malloy.

Ben Ratchford—“Whatcha know—my girl had smallpox recently, and it didn’t leave a single scar on her face.”
Hiram Sharp—“’S nothing, while I was home last summer my girl had the same stuff, and it didn’t leave a scar on her anywhere.”

An interesting development in the social life at Davidson is the installation of asbestos divans in most of the fraternity halls as a precautionary move toward successfully handling the abundant “fire” that is expected at Junior speaking.

“Buggy” Lab
When gametes fuse zygote,
Then Antheridia and Archegonia begin to pale.
And as a paramecium kisses its mate’s throat,
I’ll grab a pseudopodia amoeba by the tail.

Sad was the fate
Of Sam Malone—
For playing poker
They sent him home.

Inside Dope
Young Harry Vance from Huntersville
In an auto wreck got an awful spill
Forsooth, perchance
He tore his pants
He’s sick with a cold, from the sudden chill.

D’jevver ’ear This One
Erysipelas
Engine —— or Buchan —— we meet again
F rings Cauliflower.

More Truth Than Poetry
Simp Bryan recently confessed that all of the “hot air” in Davidson came from Newnan, Ga. Note—As yet he has not succeeded in convincing anyone that the boilers which supply our heating system (sometimes) came from his own home town.

A Toast
To better luck
For P. M. Dulin.
Last time he tried,
She was only fooling.

Fresh Johnston's girl wrote him last week and wanted to know if he had been pledged to the cute Phi Beta Kappa fraternity yet.

A fond mother, hearing with alarm that her darling Fresh up here had received three cuts all in one day, sent him a roll of gauze and some iodine with the admonition to be careful and not hurt himself.

The naughty Davidson boys have been called bad names by the nasty old Open Forum. According to it, they are “cattle, infants, children, blockheads, and dumbbells.” Oswald, that’s not a bit nice.

OPEN LETTER TO DUMBELLS
By Studious Spark Plug
Deep Student of Human Nature Fling Scorn at the Lewd and Unlearned Rubes

What are your ideas about a college education? Do you know? If so, why? Is college a home for mutes? This is evidenced by the dumb ones around here. Are you going to jig through life seeing only the road to Charlotte or Concord? Be broad-minded. Use your heads a little. They are not really so hard. Learn to bull expertly. There are some who condemn this noble practice of slinging the male cow, but it is an institution that will never pass out. Bull is slung, bull is shot, but bull will never die. Dispute this statement if you will, but remember those masters of this art and science: Cicero, Plato, Doyle, and the matadores.

Do you come to college to learn, or to chase golf balls in yonder pasture?Are you interested in learning, or are you interested only in that event that takes place three times a day? Wake up! Turn off the alarm clock, it disturbs others. Why be a “cheapskate?” The old man has plenty of dough and is anxious to spend it all on you. Just ask him. Let's have leather-bound textbooks; let's put elevators in all the dormitories; let’s build us a Union Station! What money? ‘Tis but a dream, sometimes a nightmare. What do you know? Are you as ignorant as you look? Have you read “The Daughter of a Moonshiner,” or that noble poem, “The Rabbit’s Foot?” What do you know? Are you positive, or negative; do you know something, or nothing? Are you skilled in the art of xylopyrography? Figure out the meaning of K. K. K. What do you know about the Swiss navy? How many two-bit pieces placed side by side would reach from here to there? Was Randolph born on February 14th? How much water does a tank hold? Do you know when to kiss a girl? If A is dealing, and B holds five aces, what does C do? Are you afraid of words? Do you know these: moreen, jactitation, xanthocyanopy, cul-de-sac, misogyny, paas, digamma, diathermanous, imbroglio, domtiferous, choree, multungulate? Can you give the names of the following notables: first man to swim the Mississippi with one eye shut; the inventor of the mouse trap; inventor of chewing gum; the first one who quoted General Sherman; discoverer of limburger cheese; the first to assemble hash. You claim to be learned in statistics. How many cigarettes were inhaled by red-headed men last year? How many pennies were dropped in weighing machines? How many biscuits are consumed at the trough per diem? If you cannot successfully answer the above questions, do not be discouraged. All that it takes is application, concentration, stick-to-it-iveness, and very hard work. O, ye ignorants, ye deluded dumb-bells, drink deep, or as much as possible of the lyceum spring.

SPARK PLUG. (With apologies to Galloway.)

RED AND BLACK GRAPPLERS

(Continued from page 1)

Coach Bailey then refused to wrestle Umberger, the regular heavyweight, against Lindamood. Neither coach had a copy of the intercollegiate rules so the match was called off and the reserved under intercollegiate rules. Dr. J. M. Douglas, graduate manager of athletics, wired Mr. L. W. Simpson, secretary of the I. W. A., at Annapolis in regard to the matter. In the absence of Mr. Simpson, the matter was handled by Mr. E. W. Abill, manager of the U. S. Naval Academy Wrestling Team. He replied as follows:

Annapolis, Md. February 25, 19024.

J. M. Douglas, Davidson, N. C. Article fifteen, intercollegiate wrestling rules states that no man shall be allowed to wrestle in more than one class. Under the rules, Davidson wins the heavyweight match by default, giving them five points making the final score, 8-5. In the 115-pound class, Selser won a decision over Warlick for Davidson's other three points. Trinity chalked up a draw. The line-ups were as follows:

115-pound class: Selser, Davidson won from Warlick, Trinity on decision. Time advantage, 4 minutes 25 seconds.
125-pound class: Cromartie, Davidson wrestled Hardaway, Trinity to a draw.
135-pound class: W. D. Cox, Davidson wrestled Captain Daniels, Trinity to a draw.
145-pound class: I. P. Cox, Davidson wrestled Yearby, Trinity to a draw.
158-pound class: Midgette, Trinity threw N. G. Patterson, Davidson, in 7 minutes 50 seconds.
175-pound class: Vance, Davidson wrestled Matheson, Trinity to a draw. Matheson had 4 minutes 45 seconds time advantage but the referee refused to award a decision because of stalling.
Heavyweight class: Lindamood, Davidson won from Umberger, Trinity by default.

Miss Mary Monroe, of Charlotte, spent last weekend with her sister Mrs. J. Douglas.

CHARLOTTE TRANSFER COMPANY
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON
DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola
Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY