4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 17, 1924

THE DAVIDSONIAN

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

The Question Box
Uncle Bud, Editor

I have been getting fine grades up until here lately and I am real worried now. Last Saturday, I got a zero on my Math paper.
LeRoy McLaurin.

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

Mr. McLaurin:
That's nothing to worry about.
Uncle Bud, Editor.

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m, Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Dear Mr. Question Box:
When I passed a girl on the streets of Charlotte the other day, I threw a kiss at her. I knew the young lady. Did I do wrong?
Mason Field.

Dear Mason:
Nothing wrong, only we would call that the height of laziness.
The Q. B.

LISTON D. ELKINS........ Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE........ Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE........ Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD........ Associate Editor
I. B. PRICE........ Assistant Managing Editor
A. C. WILDMAN........ Associate Editor
W. F. GALLOWAY........ Athletic Editor
W. M. COX........ Associate Editor
J. M. SELSER........ Peanut Parcher
ORITPA L. DISON........ Alumni Editor
Subscription
J. M. GARRISON........ Assistant Circulation Manager
K. S. McALPIN........ Service Manager
W. H. CROMWELL........ Bookkeeper
W. R. HOUGH........ Advertising
B. J. Rodgers.

Dear Mr. Rodgers:
Yes, I’ve made a resolution never to make any more New Year resolutions, for I never keep ‘em, anyway.
The Old Man Himself.

CIRCULATION DEPARTMENT
WATT McCAIN, Manager
J. A. THOMPSON, Assistant Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
MARSHALL, C. K.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
RATCHFORD, B. U.
SMITH, C. F.
HURD, A. M., Pres.
MILLHOUSE, E. K.
THOMSON, J. B.
GARRISON, J. M.
O'CONNOR, E. P.
STOREY, P. J.
S. L. B.
J. H.
WOODS, M.

Student sentiment would indicate that Davidson will endorse the Bok Peace Plan unanimously. Campus discussion points to the fact that the members of the student body are taking a deep interest in Mr. Bok’s effort to bring the nations of the world into a harmony of thought and action. The great publisher will have performed a valuable mission to the world if he arouses the thought of the college men of America, and sets the brains of student life working on the problems of international peace.

Already interest is centering in Junior Speaking. This festive occasion will occupy the five days of Easter holidays, and will prove the real test of Davidson’s social life. Every member of the student body should feel a personal responsibility in helping make Junior Speaking a true success.

FRIENDSHIP

When dormitory days are memories, maybe faded and dim, and it is hard to recall the things that have gone by, there will be one tender memory that even months and years cannot deface. College days may be forgotten in the strife of newer things, and the incidents of the campus and class-room may have sunk from sight in a sea of forgetfulness, but one happy memory will remain—the friendships of our college days.

Ten years—or twenty years—into the future, let us project ourselves. Who cares what marks were made; of what concern, now, are petty honors and achievements, even though they were won by toil and effort; the glories of the field of sport have been forgotten; and forensic battles have slipped beyond the view of memory. Forgotten are they, all, save that one gleaming recollection which can never die—friendship.

Friends are made through service. Selfishness is flung to the winds and egotism is a stranger where fellowship dwells. An act of kindness toward a fellow being is a vital step toward the formation of a friendship. Through service one learns to appreciate the virtues of a neighbor; these goodnesses are encouraged and emulated; the neighbor recognizes the attitude of service, and if there is within him the makings of a true friend, this service is returned in the identical spirit which prompted the giving. Friendship must be mutual, and the spirit of service—the essence of real friendship—essentially must be mutual.

Friendship is a reward in itself and is “its own excuse for being.” It gives with an open heart, and receives, but never seeks, with the same spirit of loyalty and unselfishness. “A friend is one who knows all about us—and loves us anyway,” is a proverb written in modern phraseology. Every man is human, and every human is blessed with faults and misgivings. To understand a person is to recognize these failings, and in that recognition comes the test of friendship. Faults are sordid and real; friendship is romantic and aesthetic, thinks the casual observer, and hence the reality of faultiness is apt to discourage the romance of friendship. This is the point where friendships are made or lost. A true friend never frowns upon the defects, but lends himself to correct the blemish. Nothing is too real, nothing is too flighty for friendship.

When everyone else has forgotten you, and it seems that the entire world has frowned in contempt, there is always a friend whom you would pay any price to see. You feel that he could comfort you and set you straight in the pathway of life. You remember how he comforted you, and how much his words of cheer meant to you when you went to him in an hour of need. Your friend will stand by you under all circumstances, and remain loyal to you when all others fail. It is the way of friendship.

The friends cultivated at Davidson will be friends throughout the course of life. College life is peculiarly molded for the formation of friendships and for rendering service to fellow-man. On every hand there is an opportunity to do something for someone else. Learn to be a friend and to make friends. Friendship is priceless. It cannot be bought save through service and love. By our friends will we remember the days that were spent on the Davidson campus. When our hair is silvered, and our step begins to falter, the mission of a lifetime fulfilled, may we ever turn to friendships formed at Davidson, and thank God that made us and preserved us, for friends and friendship ties.

I got into a serious argument with Dick McMillan the other day about the origin of necking. He said that it started when the old prophets fell upon one another’s necks and wept, while I maintained that it began in more recent times. One Robert Burns said something or other, about “her neck being like the swan,” and I thought perhaps that he knew something about it. Red McCombs believes that this indoor sport originated with the lynching parties of more recent times. He’s kind of bloodthirsty anyhow, so I don't believe he’s right. Do you know where it all started?
Worried Willie Heston.

Dear Bill:
Certainly. Do you fail to recall the time when Apollo took Venus up on Mount Olympus, fed her some ambrosia and nectar?
Uncle Bud.

Dear Q. B.:
Do you believe that there’s anyone around here who is really superstitious?
J. Diddlums Laws.

Dear John:
I am not certain about it, but I am pretty well convinced that Jim Carr believes in signs.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle Bud:
If I should send you a beautiful and inspiring little poem of six or seven hundred lines, would you publish it? The name of it is “Milk, Beautiful Milk.”
B. Walthall.

Dear Boy:
Would be tickled clean down to our calves to print it, only we might have to condense it.
Uncle B.

Dear Uncle Bud:
I thought that I would take my pen in hand and tell you a little about the farming I did last summer. I crossed a pig-weed and an egg-plant and am now raising ham and eggs. I tried giving the hens hot water to drink so they would lay poached eggs, but it wouldn't work. Isn't that a shame?
Nick Dellinger.

Dear Son:
That was too bad. I had a little bad luck myself. I crossed a pepper plant with an Eskimo Pie, but the poor thing died with chills and fever.
The Question Box.

Mr. Bud:
Do you think that dancing will ever be one of the courses of study here?
Dick Littlejohn.

Mr. Littlejohn:
No. No more than I think that a blind man would go to a musical comedy or subscribe to the Police Gazette.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Mr. Bud:
At times I harken back to thePrimeval times and feel the impulse to scamper around the trees as Tarzan of the Apes does. Isn't that peculiar? Harry Lindamood.

Dear Mr. Lindamood: Yes, monkey glands work wonders. Uncle Bud.

Miss Eloise Martin entertained a few young people at Mah Jongg last Thursday night. Sandwiches and hot chocolate were served as refreshments. Those present were: Misses Sara Lingfe, Dorothy Finlayson, Orrie Steele, Ellen McGill, and George.

STRENGTH OF CONVICTIONS
(Continued from page 1)

Those who have convictions with the courage of their convictions. In the first class, he placed men unable to form any opinion at all. He classed them as drifters, ungodly men, and chaff. He said, “I would rather see a man with convictions that were wrong than a man with no convictions at all.” In the second class, he placed cowards and scared men who will not trust their convictions. In touching upon this type, he continued, “Men who amount to something in this world must have convictions and not be afraid to express them.” Of the third class, he said the man who goes contrary to his opinion is not only dishonest with himself but also with God. He added, “It is not hard to live up to our convictions when they run right, but when it is so very hard is when they run contrary to our desires.” He spoke highly of the man of the fourth class. “God speaks more often to man through his convictions than in any other way. Whenever man turns a deaf ear to his convictions, he turns a deaf ear to God. To the men who have convictions and follow them, the world owes a debt that it is unable to pay.” He stated further that convictions are in no way conclusive without knowledge. “It does my heart good to see how Billy Sunday is holding up the Old Book as the very basis of our relation with God. Simply reading the Bible, though, will not give knowledge necessary to give convictions. There must be a personal relation with Jesus Christ for that.” He concluded by saying, “What I want is that more men shall get hold of the living, resurrected Christ. The Cross has done its work and it is now time for our convictions to work, for it is through our convictions that God speaks to us and through Him shall be given salvation to the world.”

AFFILIATION OF PHI ALPHA PI
(Continued from page 1)

The fraternity, which will be held in the spring. At that time the permanent name of the organization will also be selected. “Phi Kappa Pi,” the temporary name, is the local name of one of the strongest chapters, that at the Stevens Institute of Technology. Most of the chapters have already had considerable experience in the fraternity world, their ages ranging as high as 26 years. Their average is 10 years, the total age of the chapters being 120 years. Phi Alpha Pi was founded two years ago. It was chosen as one of the charter members of the new national from among the 84 fraternities represented at the conference. In addition to its being a distinct honor for members of the Davidson chapter, it is an added distinction for the college. This new national will bring the total number of national organizations at Davidson to eight. It will be the third national installed at Davidson this year. In selecting the charter chapters of the organization, due consideration was given to their location. Geographically they cover a large territory, thus forming the nucleus for real national, rather than sectional expansion. The active membership of the organization is nearly three hundred. The alumni membership is approximately one thousand. To Dr. F. K. Fleagle, the popular head of the Davidson College department of Spanish, who is a member of Phi Alpha Pi, is due a great deal of credit for his efforts in the interest of the fraternity. Among other things, he has encouraged high scholarship among the members of the fraternity. Last year Phi Alpha Pi made the highest average in scholarship of any fraternity at Davidson. Phi Alpha Pi was represented at the conference by R. G. White, ex-’25. He was appointed as chairman of one of the important committees of the national organization.

ATHLETICS DISCUSSED BY COMMITTEE AT RALEIGH

During the last week, a meeting of the committee on the Co-operative Administration and Control of Intercollegiate Athletics was held in Raleigh, N. C. The main work of this committee was the discussion of recommendations to be submitted to the North Carolina Association of Colleges, and the duties of an administration committee were decided upon. The main body of the recommendations was concerning the eligibility of players. One of the suggestions made was that no player could represent a college after having attended some other college for one or more years. Representatives from all North Carolina colleges were present at this meeting. Dr. Black, and Messrs. Van Sant, Goldiere, J. M. Douglas, who for so long a time has promoted athletics, represented Davidson.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Football “D’s” Are Awarded

Saturday morning amid the clapping of hands, the stamping of feet, the cheering of the crowd, and other outward manifestations of the student body's pride in and honor for the varsity football team, the letters were presented to the successful contestants in football during the past season. “Railroad” Clark, president of the Athletic Association, was master of ceremonies. As each boy stepped up to receive the coveted “D” a storm of applause greeted him. Those receiving letters were: W. B. Crouch, G. M. Robson, C. B. Robson, F. L. White, L. L. McAlister, H. M. Spann, J. C. McMaster, S. R. Brady, H. H. Massey, L. M. Fischel, W. I. Johnson, and Pitts Douglas. These men were initiated into the Mystic “D” club on Saturday night. All Davidson men are proud of the record of the past season in football, and we wish to congratulate those who received “D's”, one and all, in winning the highest honor conferred by the Davidson Athletic Association. The winners of “D. C.” will be announced in a later issue.

At a meeting of the student body Monday, January 13th, the following officers were elected to fill the vacancies left by men not returning to college: J. H. Miller, president student body; L. L. McAlister and A. D. McArn, vice-presidents; A. L. Currie, secretary and treasurer. The Senior class postponed any election of officers until a later date. The Sophomore class reinstated the officers elected last spring. The Freshman class elected as president, J. P. Price; for vice-president, G. H. Cornelson, Jr.; for secretary and treasurer, J. McD. Richards.

Everybody knows Mr. Schofield’s old store on the corner opposite the White Drug Company. Juniors and Seniors in college now may even remember the place as “Skit’s” for nearly a quarter of a century, the most popular “joint” in town. Once again this store will be opened. Again it will bloom with prosperity. G. H. Beal, ’21, is the enterprising owner of this new business, and judging from his plans, the old store is due to have a big “comeback.” It opens today, if all works well, and so there will be something new in Davidson!—a place where you can get the very best of home-made candies and cakes.

It’s rather a relief to hear “student body” again instead of “battalion.”

WILDCATS SWAMP CONCORD
(Continued from page 3)

A field goal. Score: Davidson 8, Charlotte 7.

Second Half

Leeper made one of two free throws, Yates made one out of two shots, putting the Linkmen in the lead. Sapp tossed in a field goal, giving the Wildcats the edge. Yates made a foul shot, tying the score. Nieman got under the basket and dropped the ball through. Sapp tied the score again with a nice shot from the floor. Yates shot a long one, putting the Vani in the lead. Nieman and Leeper each added a basket, giving Charlotte a commanding lead. Staley cut the lead to 4 points with a backhand shot. Schenck contributed a field goal. Davis missed a foul shot. Nieman made a long shot. Laird missed a free throw. Nieman made two crip shots, giving the “Y” a 12-point lead. Schenck was put out on personals, McMillan taking his place. Hewlett missed the foul shot. Laird cut the lead when he shot a goal. Smith missed a foul shot. Laird made two free throws good and then tossed in a basket just before the final whistle. Score: Davidson 20, Charlotte “Y,” 26.

Davidson (20) Position Charlotte “Y” (26)
Staley (4) Nieman (12)
Left Forward
Davis (4) Leeper (7)
Center
Laird (6) Schenck (2)
Right Guard
Boggs (0) Smith (1)
Left Guard

Substitutions: Hewlett for Staley; Yates (4) for Marsh; McMillan for Schenck; Averett for Leeper. Foul shots: Staley 0 out of 2; Hewlett 0 out of 1; Laird 2 out of 4; Davis 0 out of 3; Marsh 0 out of 1; Yates 2 out of 3; Leeper 1 out of 2; Smith 1 out of 4. Referee: Faul; Umpire: Graham.