6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 6, 1924

Mrs. Frazer Hood Is Struck By Poverty of Natives In Island of West Indies

Seekers of Booze Crowd Ships Bound Away from These Arid States to Freer Climes

“Poverty and booze” sums up in two words the impressions which Mrs. Frazer Hood received in a month’s tour of the Caribbean Sea. The “poverty” refers to the living conditions of the island natives, and “booze” to the beverage always demanded by the thirsty crowd from the States which thronged the decks of the Empress of Britain.

On the trip, Mrs. Hood met the high diver who doubled for Pearl White in one of her sensational pictures, The Virgin's Paradise, filmed in the Bahamas. They started talking about prohibition and booze, the most popular topic of conversation on shipboard, and the diver said that she never drank until prohibition came in, but that now she enjoyed herself with the rest. Mrs. Hood also talked to a druggist from a Connecticut town, who was unable to drink at home because of appearances, but who took a trip once in a while to break loose. The great preponderance of men on the passenger list made her believe that liquor was the chief attraction the West Indies had for the majority.

The weather was ideal, and Mrs. Hood and her two sisters enjoyed themselves fully. Mrs. Hood, who is a good sailor, wished for a little rough weather to heighten the pleasure, but it failed to materialize. The plant and bird life greatly interested Mrs. Hood. The tropical flowers, the hibiscus and oleander hedges, and the brilliant coloring of the other flowers made a picture never to be forgotten. Mrs. Hood hunted on the islands for a weaver bird's nest. Just as she was returning to the ship she caught a glimpse of one through her field glasses, the only one she saw.

The party sampled all the tropical fruits—good, bad, and indifferent—which practically fill the menu of the poor natives. A good wage for men is 60 cents, and the women are paid 40 cents for their services in the sugar cane fields. At some of the islands where modern coaling facilities are lacking, the women coaled the ship, carrying the coal balanced on their heads in large baskets.

Like Doctor Hood, professor of psychology, Mrs. Hood takes a keen interest in people everywhere. She was especially struck by the differences in the speech, habits, and characteristics of the negroes in the French and British colonies. In the French colonies, the negroes speak French, imitate the French in every way, and have the same nervous and vivacious manner. In islands under British rule, the negroes speak perfect English, and resemble the British in their manners.

One afternoon the party stopped in their afternoon sight-seeing walk to drink some green coconut juice. The price of the drink was sixpence. Mrs. Hood found that she had only a dime. The vendor of coconut juice refused to accept it. The guide turned to her and said in perfect English: “That individual is so ignorant that he won't take an American dime.”

Trinidad is the great melting pot of the Caribbean. There Mrs. Hood saw every type of people—Asiatics, Africans, and Europeans. English influence was everywhere in evidence. At St. Pierre on the island of Martinique, Mrs. Hood collected some scraps from the ruins of the old earthquake which are still evident. The mountains on the islands came as a distinct surprise to Mrs. Hood. The hills were all covered with tropical verdure and even in February the summer-like heat was oppressive. Mrs. Hood enjoyed the Bahamas greatly.

Mrs. Hood also visited the crystal cave where Annette Kellerman’s famous picture, Neptune's Daughter, was made. Mrs. Hood missed a bull fight in Havana by one day, but saw a cock fight on the trip. The trip, which occupied 29 days from New York to New York, included stops at Havana, Kingston, the Canal Zone, ports in Columbia and Venezuela, Trinidad, Barbados, Martinique, the Virgin Islands, San Juan, Porto Rico, the Bahamas, and the Bermudas.

Stereopticon Lecture Shows Imperial Egypt

Rev. M. B. Lambdin Speaks on Remarkable Civilization of Ancient Egypt

Rev. M. B. Lambdin, who has done special work in Biblical Archeology, has returned from a tour of the Bible lands. In speaking of the remarkable civilization of ancient Egypt, Rev. Mr. Lambdin said that as he has discovered the history of Egypt, he has found a well-advanced civilization. No one has been able to trace the history of this great nation back to its beginning. At the earliest date that anyone has been able to fix in Egyptian history, we find Egypt to be already a great nation among the ancient peoples. She was great in the construction of magnificent buildings and huge monuments; in the governments and conquests of her Pharaohs, and in her works of art. Egypt was truly an imperial nation.

The illustrated lecture on “Imperial Egypt” was given by Rev. M. B. Lambdin, in Shearer Hall on Tuesday night, February 26th. The pictures which Rev. Mr. Lambdin used to illustrate and supplement his lecture were of unusual interest and value. They included views of the official opening of the tomb of King Tut, some of which Rev. Mr. Lambdin snapped with his own camera and which were shown for the first time in this lecture. He showed remarkable views of the Pyramids, the ruins at Luxor and Karnak, the Sphinx, the statues of Rameses II, the island of Philae, the tombs of Kings, and the mummified remains of the great Pharaohs.

Doctor Moore Speaks Of Call To Service

President of Union Theological Seminary Addresses Vesper Services

John 1:40-41, “One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter’s brother. He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, ‘We have found the Messiah.’” This was the text used by Dr. W. W. Moore, president of Union Theological Seminary, in his address at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday night. Doctor Moore, in his opening remarks, called attention to the distinct forms of crosses, and of Saint Andrew as the patron saint of Scotland. He pointed out thatWhile the traditions in regard to Andrew's burial in Scotland may be purely fictional, yet the fact that such traditions grew up concerning him furnishes evidence that he was a great man. Cross one ACTION PASSED BY TRUSTEES

Continued from page 1

But Andrew was no writer. Like his Master, all his teaching was by oral methods. He wrote his Gospel on the hearts of the people. He was no poet, no statesman, but he did a great deed. He did one thing that made him worthy of all the praise given him. He brought his brother to Christ.

Andrew was not only the first member of the Christian Church, but he was also the beginner of missionary work, of bringing others to Him. This is the reason he has such influence over the people of the earth.

We learn to value our own appreciation for deliverances from sin in the joy we receive in bringing others to the Deliverer. Just as if we were in a large company in a desert country and discovered a fountain or spring of water, we would call others to drink of the waters, so having received the gift of deliverance from sin, we must find great pleasure in leading others to the Fountain of Strength that saved us.

Doctor Moore gave five characteristics which are essentials of a successful minister: “Christian experience is necessary if you are to lead others to your belief. An average capacity or mentality is required of one who is to lead his people. This capacity may be cultivated. The minister, to reach his audience and have effect on them, must know something of speaking. The fourth requisite is sense. The fifth is energy, work, force of character, leadership.”

In conclusion, the speaker said that the Christian man who had the above qualifications should give serious thought to the Gospel ministry. O. J. Allison led the song service, Angus McBryde read the Scripture and introduced the speaker, and Wallace Purdy was pianist.

DEBATES FOR EMORY AND TRINITY CONTESTS SHOWING AT DAVIDSON MONDAY, MARCH 17th

Continued from page 1

Davidson shall enter these two debates and L. D. Elkins was unfortunately confined to the infirmary at the time of the debate, but upon his reputation and ability as a speaker, as voiced in his debate against Trinity last year, the preliminary debaters voted to award Elkins a place on the team. A vote by the contestants cut the time limit of the speakers from 12 to nine minutes. However, a special reservation was made to this in that Walthall was permitted the use of the whole of the 12 minutes.

The meeting held in Shearer was presided over by P. C. Henderson, and the judges of the debate were Dr. T. W. Lingle, Dr. J. H. McConnell, Dr. E. F. Shewmake, Prof. A. Currie, and Prof. C. K. Brown. They were to pick the seven successful debaters, and afterwards they are to be divided up into the respective teams. The debate with Trinity is to be held in Durham, N. C., on April 14th, and is the last year in which Davidson won a unanimous decision over Trinity. The Emory debate is to be held at Queens College, Charlotte, N. C., on April 11th. This is the first debate between Davidson and Emory in a number of years and the forensic ability of these men holding high the banner of Davidson which rarely knows defeat in this line.

DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50
Manufactured and sold exclusively by
NAT LUXENBERG & Bros.
New address
241 Broadway, New York City.
Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.
Our style-memo book will be sent free on request.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing, Dry Cleaning, Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest, Oldest, Best
8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

WHITE BUS LINE
Leaves Charlotte A. M. A. M. P.M. P.M.
Charlotte 7:30 10:30 1:00 5:30
Huntersville 8:10 11:10 1:40 6:10
Cornelius 8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Troutman 9:15 12:15 2:50 7:15
Statesville 9:30 12:30 3:05 7:30

Statesville A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
Statesville 8:00 10:00 2:00 4:30
Troutman 8:15 10:15 2:15 4:45
Mooresville 8:30 10:30 2:30 5:00
Davidson 8:45 10:45 2:45 5:15
Cornelius 8:50 10:50 2:50 5:20
Huntersville 9:20 11:20 3:20 5:45
Charlotte 10:00 12:00 4:00 6:30

For Further Information See Driver

Every spring the demand for Ford Cars is several hundred thousand greater than the available supply. Place your order immediately, to avoid delay in delivery. NOTE: A small payment down puts your name on the preferred delivery list. See the Nearest Authorized Ford Dealer.