6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

Dope Matheson Noted As Diviner of Rumple
Shiek of Houston Dormitory Forecasts Seasonal Box-Score of Men on Campus

“Don't crowd, gentlemen! ‘Dr. Matheson’ will see you all before he stops.” Yes, that’s what they are saying up at
the front door of Rumple, the entrance through which the distinguished “Doctor” goes each morning to hold his consultations with
people from all over the country. All you have to bring is a dollar and an honest face, and all
of your future will be put before you by the noted spiritualist, Dr. Matheson, Dopey Jones.

Dr. Dope has a Divining Cup which he uses to tell his customers their whole future. Last Tuesday he told
the eminent Mr. Buffalo McKinnon his whole future, and three of the prophecies have already come to pass. Ask Mr.
James Appleby for his testimony. Only one week ago this gentleman went to consult with Dr. Jones. During the consultation,
Dr. Dopey told Mr. Appleby that he would have to do only three small things and pay an extra fee
of 37 cents, and that he would be able to gain as much flesh as he pleased. The money was
paid, and Mr. Appleby himself will tell you that he has gained 11 pounds in seven days.

The redoubtable Hippo the Brown and Ed Houck, Esq., declare that there can none be found who can in any
way measure up to the noted character who has just discovered that he is able to tell anyone anything that
he wishes to know. Besides the testimony of these two men, many others, too numerous to mention, have been received
by Dr. Matheson’s secretary, Mr. Bevo Davis.

Mr. Count Davis, better known to all of his associates as Noah Count, made an appointment with the great spiritualist
one day last week. Mr. Davis has been suffering from the Heebie Jeebies lately, and has not been able to
sleep at all for the past ten days. Dr. Dopey told Mr. Count that if he would play nine holes
of golf on a Friday night, the 13th, in the dark of the moon, with a black cat under each
arm, leading a three-legged rooster, and lose only three balls, that he would be entirely cured of his malady. Other
cases are omitted for lack of space.

Please have the correct change ready, gentlemen. No crowding, please. Office hours from sunup to moondown. The profits are all
donated to the Eskimo Ice Fund. Contributions gladly received.

CHINESE POSSESS GREAT INTELLECTUAL FACULTIES

The morning service at the Presbyterian Church last Sunday was conducted by Dr. Robert F. Fitch, president of the Hangchow
Christian College, in China. The nature of the service was a sermon on missionary work in China, with special reference
to his own work at Hangchow.

Dr. Fitch related an interesting incident that occurred to him while on his way to America. He was conversing with
a man on board his steamer when he was somewhat startled by this remark from his newly-made friend: “I should
think that your work as a missionary would carry with it a certain feeling of condescension, and that the Chinese
would look upon you with a degree of resentment.” After inquiring of him his business, Dr. Fitch learned that he
was an oil man who had been to China, selling them kerosene, so that they might substitute for their crude
lighting methods, a real oil lamp. Then in a beautiful illustration, the speaker...

Exchanges

An article appearing in The Red and Black, the University of Georgia publication, seems to infer that there is great
dissatisfaction with the honor system in many schools. Quite a few universities are considering abandoning the idea as impractical. But
the article also states that there is no dissatisfaction among University of Georgia students, only occasional murmurings arising from among
the members of that student body, as would arise among any group of students.

A new scheme suggested would not put the freshmen on the honor system until toward the end of the year.
They would be under careful supervision of professors during exams and throughout the year would be constantly impressed with the
advantages of the honor system, with its moral code, and with its method of operation among the upper classes. This
may have a good and a bad result. Some students will see the advantages of this newly suggested plan and
will be favorably impressed with its operation, while others may feel that they are not to be trusted and will
not feel themselves a part of the honor system. The plan is a good one for a college to adopt
as an entrance into the honor system, then after some time it can grow into a full honor system, with
every man in the student body on his honor for everything the day he enters college.

An article in the Arizona Wildcat states that after several years of trial, the University of Missouri has ruled out
the honor system, this action being taken by the student council and their reason being the unwillingness on the part
of students to report cheating witnessed. If the honor system is to be a success in any school, it must
have every man behind it—Ex.

Ambition

There are two kinds of ambition. One personal, peevish, fretful, pessimistic; always pouring forth its tide of complaints—the other a
mountain of restless energy, a spur to help the weaker to success—the latter is denominated a noble ambition. The incarnation
of a helpful optimism, it constitutes one of the noblest attributes of man. It prompts him to rise into a
higher realm and to assert his claim to the noblest work of God. It is a spirit which no adversity
can daunt and which no misfortune can destroy, which is strengthened by reverses, and which rises from the mire, to
rebuild a brighter and stronger structure upon the ruins of every shattered hope.

Let us scorn a life of inglorious ease. We are called to do something better. Life is not a gift
to be spent in sleep or squandered in the mazes of the dance. It is a deed of trust; and
it calls us to battle and to toil. Nature herself proclaims the motto which should govern and control our lives.
The earth, as she pursues the trackless path of her orbit, joins her note to swell the chorus: “Onward, onward!”
—Red and Black.

The Sociology department of the University of Kansas sent out questionnaires to 30 co-eds upon the qualifications of an acceptable
husband. Twenty...compared the work of the missionary, the one who takes with him the spiritual light of the Living God,
to replace the terrible superstition that is prevalent throughout China, with the work of the man who takes with him
the oil for better lighting purposes. “There has always been a feeling in America,” continued the speaker, “that the Chinese
are a people of a marked degree of intellectual inferiority to the American people, but I was thoroughly convinced of
the fallibility of this belief ten years ago. The Chinese have had their great men and are capable of achieving
greatness through intellectual processes even as the Americans are.”

“Prof. and Mrs. Dendy have moved from Mrs. C. V. Hurd’s house to the apartment in the home of Miss
Withers.”

Two checked as a first requisite financial ability. Love brought up the rear.—The Tar Heel.

Carmichael’s Playing Praised by Tulane Team

The Tulane team, to a man, were by no means stingy in their praise for the excellent playing that Captain
Carmichael of the North Carolina team performed in the past Conference Tournament. One of the Tulane players, in an interview
on the team's return, stated: “Carmichael is by far the classiest basketball player that we've ever seen play. If there
ever was a perfect player, it's he.”—Tulane Hullabaloo.

Fear Not Ye Ladies That Do Wax Stout

Professor Jacques Werner, a French physiologist, has made what is classed as a startling discovery that within a period of
five hundred years the beauty standard will have completely changed, and the fat lady will come into her own.—McGill Daily.

Signs of leap year have appeared at the University of Nevada. A popular young man on the campus received a
telephone call from an unknown young lady offering her heart. He refused to commit himself unless she came around and
showed more definite signs of her love. He claims to have always had a secret desire to have some young
woman bay at the moon under his window. He has been patiently waiting for several days.—Arizona Wildcat.

To one who has come from a land where drinking clubs and nightly minuets down the city streets are the
chief extra-curriculum activities of university students, Yale football games—Yale spectacles—come as a dream in the night, but a pleasant dream.
Invasions of neighborhood cabarets and strolls with whirling cane and cap awry are replaced by more athletic if less contemplative
sports here in New Haven, according to Theodore Shillings, a Belgian student now studying in the Graduate School on a
scholarship from the Committee of Belgian Relief.—Yale News.

RACE RELATIONS OCCUPY DISCUSSION OF CLASSES

Realizing the need for a detailed and yet concise study of the subject, Race Relations, the Y. M. C. A.
has inaugurated a series of lessons with Race Relations the World Over as its theme. Particular emphasis will be placed
on the Negro problem in the South.

Classes will be led by men who have been taught by Professor Fleagle in a leaders’ class, which meets every
Tuesday night at 9:30. The discussion classes meet on Wednesday nights at 9:30. One is held on each floor of
every dormitory. The leaders of these discussion classes are: Witherspoon, E. K. Regen, Angus McBryde, Harry Price, Norman Patterson, Paul
Patterson, Tag Fenton, Vic Brown, Lee McLean, Marion Murray, Linton Deck, Jerry Fenton, Leighton Green, Dave Phlegar, Cromwell, Jim Hendrix,
Bub Oeland, Dope Matheson.

“Heinie” Zimmerman says, “Now I know I'm a little horse, for I’ve got a bad colt.”

Literary Societies

Pandemics

The meeting of the Pandemic Society last Tuesday night was decidedly the liveliest meeting since the institution of the parliamentary
plan. The subject of the night was the same one which is to be used in the Fresh-Soph debate: Resolved,
That the United States Government should adopt the Bok Peace Plan without changes. Members speaking were C. M. S. McIlwaine,
G. M. Ford, W. B. Price, and W. H. Bardeaux. The parliamentary plan was carried a step further when the
society was divided into two parties, the Whigs and the Tories. As a result of an election, W. E. Milton
and A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., were chosen to lead the two parties, which will be known as the Whigs and
Tories, respectively. Professor Dendy was present at this meeting and gave a short talk discussing further the parliamentary plan.

Philanthropic

Last Thursday the Philanthropic Society carried out its program for the first time in the new “parliamentary” style. The Bonus
Plan before Congress was discussed. Holshauser was the main speaker. The others discussing the question were E. D. Brown, R.
J. Smith, E. E. Lingle, and J. R. Gudger. The Fresh-Soph debate preliminaries were postponed to Thursday a week. The
Bok Peace Plan is the subject for discussion this coming week.

Metrophilian

A large part of the meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society last Tuesday night was taken up with the election
of officers. The new officers are as follows: A. M. McBryde, president; M. W. Trawick, vice-president; W. H. Matheson, first
critic; W. M. Gracey, second critic; E. T. Pullen, secretary; E. D. Witherspoon, first supervisor; H. C. Lawson, second supervisor;
C. E. Hodgin and D. B. Wharton, marshals. These officers will be installed Tuesday night, March 11th. Orations were given
by C. E. Hodgin and A. M. McBryde.

At the regular business meeting of the Woman’s Auxiliary, held Thursday afternoon in the church parlor, secretaries of the causes
and chairmen of the circles were elected. The chairmen for the coming year will be Mrs. E. V. Black, Mrs.
W. E. Potts, Mrs. Withers, Mrs. Wooten, Mrs. Whittaker, and Mrs. Harry Elliot. Mrs. J. M. Douglas entertained some of
the elderly ladies of the town for her mother, Mrs. C. A. Monroe, and Mrs. Killian.

CENTRAL Dyeing Largest 8 E. Trade St. and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection Oldest HAT SHOP
Pressing Best CHARLOTTE

AN EXHIBITION of CLOTHES and HABERDASHERY At School Monday - Tuesday March 17 and 18 Harry Goode, Representative

FINCHLEY HAS ESTABLISHED A FRESH AND TASTEFUL STANDARD OF ATTIRE, WHICH IS RECOGNIZED AND ACCEPTED BY COLLEGE MEN. JACKETS OF
NEW SUITS ARE FULL-BODIED AND THE TROUSERS OF CORRECT COLLEGIATE WIDTH. FABRICS ARE IMPRESSIVE IN THEIR DISTINCTION AND QUALITY. READY-TO-PUT-ON
AND TAILORED TO MEASURE Finchley Haberdashery, selected abroad, has uncommon character and value.

5 West 46th Street NEW YORK
