THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

Davidson Special Flashes > Astounding Journey Log

SIDELIGHTS ON THE SPECIAL

At last, the Davidsonian has been able to secure an accurate and authentic log of the journey to Asheville last Saturday, when a special train carried nearly 200 Davidson men to see the game with P. C.

7:30 P.M.: The special pulled into Davidson and parked at the Jaybirdsville station, awaiting its cargo for shipment to Asheville. The crew had tested all mechanical devices, realizing that the long journey through the “Land of the Sky” was to be a strenuous one; and the apparatus was reported in excellent condition.

8:00 P.M.: "Simp" Bryan and his two assistants reach the station loaded down with pep, megaphones, and cough drops.

8:10 P.M.: Dr. and Mrs. Hood, and Professor Forman arrive to accompany the fellows to Asheville, and their arrival is followed by the arrival of a crowd of men, who skipped breakfast fearing the train would pull out minus their presence.

8:15: Abernathy announces that the number of tickets necessary to secure the special have been sold, and that new applicants for excuses from classes are pouring in every minute.

8:20: “Hollywood” Rice boards the train with his horn, and immediately renders a solo, much to the discomfort of the other passengers.

8:25: Goat Lewis and Sellers reach the station, carrying the Student Store “in toto.” They install new headquarters in the smoker of the front car, and from this strategic point, they plan to rob the poor travelers of their pecuniary treasures.

8:30: With many a jerk and many a sigh, the special departs, creaking under its load of yelling Wildcat supporters.

8:45: Mooresville is passed without notice, and Mooresville Junction is reached. The train stops for a fresh supply of water and coal.

9:15: The train crew considers it expedient to swap engines, since the little “dink” which started out on the journey is fast weakening under its unusual load. At Statesville, a real locomotive is coupled up with the special and the train pulls out to continue its trip in speedy style.

10:30: The special side-tracks for the 55th freight train that has been met on the journey already. Conductor Briggs continually consults his watch, fearing that his train will reach Asheville on schedule time.

12:00: Hickory is reached just as Jim Patton learns to play “The Good Ole Ship of Zion” on his fifth new musical instrument, which happens to be a piccolo. (No, Ezra, this is not an instrument for use in dislodging food from your molars).

12:15: The special slips into Morganton, but the trainmen refuse to allow the students to leave the coaches, in view of the rumor that certain officials from the Morganton Asylum are expecting to kidnap Warren, Ogden, Gladney, and Joe Earnest. In spite of the protests of the train crew, a certain well-known gentleman of “color” from Davidson slips off the train and has not been heard from. Whether the asylum officials captured the young gentleman, thinking him to be one of the aforementioned students, has not yet been determined, but special detectives are on the trail.

12:45: “Goat” Lewis has just sold a large shipment of sandwiches, crackers, and “dopes”—and has retired to his improvised store to count his money, taken from the unsuspecting passengers.

1:00: The big artesian geyser, just out of Asheville, has been seen for about the fifth time, and “Shorty” Love is anxious to know why Davidson College doesn't secure a pump like the one attached to the geyser. He is sure that such an innovation would remedy all water troubles back at college.

1:35: The coaches are filled with smoke as the train makes its way through one of the long tunnels that are located all along the route. Fifteen or sixteen Freshmen are huddled together in one of the smokers, attempting to seem brave in spite of their faintheartedness.

1:50: Asheville at last, and a grand rush for McConnel’s Grocery, where tickets to the game are on sale at reduced rates. Four “gulley jumpers” transport the two hundred hoodlums to the square, where they immediately proceed to “take the town.” The Asheville citizenry, not accustomed to such vandalism, stand by, their countenances depicting sheer astonishment. Mounting one of the monuments in the center of the square, “Simp” and his assistants lead the boys through a number of yells, and after a brief respite of ten minutes, the crowd assembles again and marches to McCormick Field for the game. Of course, Davidson wins, and following the game, Asheville’s startled uptown district is given another treat in the form of a triumphant march through the main streets.

Return Trip

7:30 P.M.: With the members of the football squad added to the crowd of joyful passengers, the old train, much the worse for its trip to Asheville, pulls out of the Asheville station, with its nose pointed homeward. Jethro Twitty and his fellow-rooters seem well pleased over the 15 to 3 victory of the Wildcats, but all have hard luck tales to tell concerning their impecuniosity. A few “kind-hearted (?)” fellows heed the janitors’ tales of woe, and donate.

8:50: Fatigued but mighty happy, the passengers have quieted down, and are amusing themselves with current fiction or bridge. The chief topic of conversation is Hendrix's great run.

9:00: Goat Lewis is back on the job and is urging students to remember that Sunday is fast approaching, and that food is mighty scarce in Davidson on Sunday. Too happy to think, the students stock up on Nabiscos and Hershey's chocolate.

9:15: Another freight train passes while we stand on the sidetrack.

10:00: Charlie awakens amid the shouts of the passengers to find a flaming newspaper in his pocket and alarge chew of Sam’s jointners’ favorite morsel in his throat—but Charlie is “indisposed” and falls back to sleep.

10:25: By unanimous vote, Al Simpson is awarded a beautiful bundle of tissue paper, in recognition of his endurance record. He has remained seated in one place for over three hours, and from all appearances, is “good for the night.”

11:50: The conductor begins to collect tickets, and Warren Ogden asks to be locked on the outside of the coach in order that he may save his ticket as a memory. His friends gladly grant his wishes, but all agree that a big mistake was made when Ogden was not put off the train in Morganton.

12:00: Another freight train.

12:15: A steady downpour is proof enough that the train is fast nearing Davidson.

12:45: “Hollywood” Rice discovers that his horn has been filled with ice water, and forthwith delivers a beautiful lecture on the “Mistreatment of R.O.T.C. property.” His lecture is very forceful, in spite of vulgar remarks from his listeners.

12:50: Still another freight train.

1:00 A.M.: Davidson again, and plenty of rain!

Asheville Hard Hit by a Young Tornado

Joe Earnest’s Concert Band Leads Whooping Wildcats Through Sinuous Snake Dance

Asheville was given a jolt Saturday, when its traffic was blocked by an approaching band, followed by a long line of yelling and dancing Comanchee Indians, or more literally speaking—shrieking Wildcats. For more than five hours this wild crew completely took the town. But Asheville was agreeably surprised. She was glad the D.C. boys had come, and she was even more pleased that they had brought with them the band. For it was this organization that put so much enthusiasm into that ecstatic bunch of Wildcat followers. Davidson College has reason to be proud of its band. With the progress it has made so far this year, this organization bids fair to be, by far, the best of its kind in the state. At present, there are 35 pieces. It may be necessary later to eliminate one or two of these, but it is hoped that during the football season, at least, the band will remain as large as it is now. There are three practices held each week. At these, Joe Earnest and Tootie Crayton have been putting those trying for places through some stiff work, and it is due to their efforts that the band made such a hit at Asheville. The music at the same was fine, and to them is due also much credit for the spirit which helped to win that contest. The college has authorized the procurement of a band director, and it is understood that Director Miller, of Charlotte, has consented to give his services at two of the weekly practices for a period of six weeks. He began work last Friday. Plans are being made for the band to be present at all the games played on the Hill and as many of the others as the faculty will permit. A concert tour has also been planned. This trip will take place some time in the spring.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR CONVENES IN SHEARER

The Christian Endeavor Training Class held the best meeting of this year last Sunday afternoon in Shearer Hall, an unusually large number attending. The topic was one that vitally concerns every Davidson man, What can I do to Lift the Ideals of Davidson College? Roland Parker, leader of the meeting, in a few introductory words explained the subject, after the meeting had been opened by prayer. L. L. Deck was the first speaker and in a simple but forceful manner explained why Davidson was classed as a Christian college. The qualities I like best in a college man were discussed by Pritchard. Although making extemporaneous talks, Fred Smith, Eddington, and Ernest Milton described the three qualities they liked most in a college man. Then came one of the most enjoyed numbers, a piano solo by Billy Rice. In his own manner, Hayden Hollingsworth gave five reasons and ways to raise the campus ideals to a still higher plane. Calhoun described the man he most admired on the hill and why. Joe Garrison's talk was full of splendid ideas. Yancey Bowie was the last speaker of the program. He pleaded for living close to Christ. Prof. Douglass, Miss Douglass, and Miss Grace James were entertained at Mrs. K. J. Foreman’s one evening last week.

The SHOPS for MEN

New Slip-Over Sweaters $3.00

Listen fellows! Slip into this slip-over Sweater and slip out of doors, and let the rest of the world go by! Exactly like the illustration in solid colors of powder blue, tan, or gray, with contrasting colors. It is light enough to be worn under a coat or heavy enough to be worn as a sweater. Moderately priced.

The Greater Bon Marche The Shops For Men---Trade Street Entrance

Beacons of the sky

This achievement has been made possible by engineers of the Illuminating Engineering Laboratories of the General Electric Company, working with officials of the Post Office Department. A startling achievement now will be a commonplace of life in the new America which you will inherit. If you are interested to learn more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete set of these advertisements.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK

Between Cleveland and Rock Springs, Wyo., along the night route of the air mail service, tall beacons have been placed every twenty-five miles. Revolving on great steel towers, General Electric searchlights, totaling 1,992,000,000 candle-power, blaze a path of light for the airplane pilot. What the lighthouse is to the ocean navigator, these beacons are to the conquerors of the air.