THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

The Fighting Wildcats

CHARLES N. (NAPPY) DAVIS
D***Football
D***Basketball

“Cap'n Nappy” holds a unique position in the Davidson Hall of Fame, in that he has won four major letters
and has captained the squads of two major sports. Nappy made his letter in basketball his first year at Davidson
and continued to make it until he had played his full four years. He ended his brilliant basketball career last
season by leading the Davidson quintet through a series of victories. Nappy's position on the basketball team was center; although
when placed at guard, he shone as brilliantly as at center. The Davidson five of this year will feel keenly
the loss of such a man as Nappy.

End was the place on the football team so amply filled by the 155 pounds of Nappy. He led the
team most successfully through an extremely tough season this past fall. In all the games Nappy was in the midst;
not only leading the ferocious Wildcats but fighting fiercer than ever did the namesake of the eleven. Nappy was a
very consistent defensive player but he was more valuable on the offense. Many times during the past season Nappy brought
the crowds to their feet as he caught a seemingly impossible pass. His work in this respect was especially notable
in the P.C., Carolina, and State games.

Nappy has gained recognition and admiration not only on the athletic field but also on the campus. He is a
member of the Davidson Chapter of Kappa Sigma, and also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, an honorary fraternity. In
the selection of the best all-round athlete, to whom the Norris athletic trophy was to be presented, Nappy was among
the three highest. In the losing of Captain Davis, Davidson College loses not only one of its best athletes but
also one of its finest comrades, and one who was the friend of every man on the Hill.

RALPH E. (SOOKS) BOGGS
D*Football
D*Basketball

“Sook” was formerly a resident of Spartanburg, S.C., but now claims the city of Birmingham, Ala., as his home. He
succeeds Nappy Davis as captain of this year’s basketball team; and is possessed with the same old Wildcat fighting spirit
which Nappy always displayed. He holds down the position of guard to the “Queen's taste,” few men, indeed, being able
to penetrate his splendid defense. Last season he was the Wildcat's brightest star, and was mentioned for a berth on
the all-State team. Probably no man in the entire state can hold down his position more effectively than Boggs. As
captain, he will lead his men against some of the best teams of the South Atlantic; and under his excellent
leadership, the Wildcats hope to go forward to a successful season.

“Sook” is one of Davidson's most versatile athletes, having played the last two football seasons at varsity guard on the
football team. With a height of only five feet eight inches, and weighing only 160, he has always held his
own against his much heavier opponents. Last year “Sook” was one of the three highest contestants for the Norris trophy
cup which is presented every year to the most versatile athlete on the campus. Boggs is a Beta Theta Pi,
and, in addition, is a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, which is composed of the leaders of the
campus activities.

Golden Rule Presented By Frontis in “Y” Talk
Forcefully Urges Future Citizens to Consider Cause in Politics and Business

Doctor Frontis, a prominent dentist of Mooresville, spoke forcefully at the weekly Vesper Service of the Y.M.C.A. here Sunday evening
as he developed the theme of the Golden Rule. Coming at the close of a day featured by the observance
of the Golden Rule dinner by the entire student body of Davidson College, the address was doubly appropriate.

“Whatsoever ye would that men should do unto you, do ye even so to them,” was practically shown to be
a part of every man’s life, though he be in business, large or small, or politics, local, national or international.
An important part of the speech was devoted to the application of the Golden Rule to the international problems as
well as the big business interests of the United States. He showed how it would safeguard the world against war,
racial strife, dishonesty in business relations, harsh feeling between employer and employee and would foster a correct attitude between the
youth and aged of the world.

A.N. Moffett presided, reading the scripture and introducing the speaker of the evening, while Carr led the singing. An entertaining
violin solo was given by Lowrance. Chester Monk and Paul Patterson led in prayer.

TRAINING CLASS HEARS TALKS FROM FIVE BOYS

The Christian Endeavor Training Class held its regular meeting last Sunday in Shearer Chapel. After singing several songs, which were
led by R.B. Parker, W.E. Milton, president of the class, took charge of the business. W.H. Lynch reported a reputation
to Cornelius. Proposed visits were suggested to Mooresville, Cornelius, and Charlotte. Duke was the leader for the afternoon. The subject
was The Golden Rule. Several talks followed. Harmon Kirkland gave a short talk on Harvest Blessings. Pritchett spoke on The
Many Blessings Here in Davidson. Next Sunday the subject will be Golden Rule Sunday.will be Deputa- The various members will
prepare talks that they can give before their home societies while they are home for Christmas. Speeches spoke of the
class.

JUNIOR MANAGERS TO HELP — OELAND ELECTED MONDAY

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, the selections for the three men who are to assist Bub Oeland
in managing the 1924-25 basketball team were made. In accordance with the new custom of electing such men, the council
had to use its own judgment as to the relative ability of the eligible men in the Junior class. With
this aim in view, they selected for the positions Joe Garrison, H.H., C. Lawson, and Christenbury. All these men have
shown that to whichever one of them the nomination should fall next year, it will be in safe hands for
a successful season.

NEW LOW PRICES ON ALL FORD CARS

THE UNIVERSAL CAR PRICES REDUCED

Effective December 2, the Ford Motor Company announces a reduction of Twenty-Five Dollars on the Fordor Sedan and lower prices
on all other types, making Ford cars even greater values than ever before.

NEW RUNABOUT --------- $260.00
TOURING CAR ---------- $290.00
COUPE ----------------- $520.00
TUDOR SEDAN ---------- $580.00
FORDOR SEDAN --------- $660.00
CHASSIS --------------- $225.00
TRUCK CHASSIS -------- $365.00

ALL PRICES F.O.B. DETROIT

These are the lowest prices ever offered in the history of the Ford car. They create a new standard of
value for motor transportation.

Ford Motor Company, Detroit

SEE THE NEAREST AUTHORIZED FORD DEALER

Literary Societies

Eumenean

At the last regular meeting of the Eumenean Society, W. W. Purdy gave a very interesting oration on Simple Explanation
of Common Weather Proverbs. P. F. Jones recounted as current events some of the world’s latest events. The regular question
for debate was, Resolved, That a two-thirds vote of a jury constitute a verdict in criminal cases. On the affirmative,
Anderson and Smith were opposed by Hopkins and Rogers, of the negative. Ramsey, Hopkins, Jones, Moffet, and Rogers discussed the
question from the floor, and arising from this discussion was the following motion proposed: That ninety-nine guilty persons should go
free rather than one innocent person be punished. The motion failed to carry. On the merits of the question, the
house voted for the negative. The judges, Barr, Lynch, and Bragaw, cast their votes for the negative.

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society met at the accustomed hour on last Tuesday evening. At this meeting, the Junior Metrophilian Society,
which is composed of Freshmen, was taken into the Senior society. The new men will increase the society roll approximately
33 1-3 percent. The debate of the evening was between three representatives of the Senior society and a corresponding number
from the Junior Society. The affirmative team was composed of Pullen, Patterson, and Parker, of the older men; while arguing
for the negative were McRae, Martin, and Bradford. The query was, Resolved, That the twentieth amendment, as passed by Congress,
should be ratified by the States. The Seniors were awarded the decision by a vote of 4 to 1. Gracey,
the newly elected president of the society, occupied the chair for the first time. After clearing up old and new
business, a motion for adjournment was carried by the house.

Junior Eumenean

Because of repair work in progress in the Eumenean hall, the Junior Society met in the Phi Hall, December 2nd,
and enjoyed a fine program. President Freeland called the meeting to order, Secretary Christian read the minutes of the last
meeting, which were approved, and H. A. Hopkins conducted the devotional exercises. The query for debate was, Resolved, That a
three-fourths vote of a jury should constitute a verdict in a criminal case. The affirmative was upheld by J. M.
Murchison, Jr., and R. A. Duke, and the negative by B. C. Debele and W. K. Gwin. The judges, D.
H. Howard, Carl O'Shick, and J. D. Gwin, rendered a 2-1 decision in favor of the negative. The house also
voted in favor of the negative. Two fine declamations were given by C. G. Davidson and Tyree Dillard. R. M.
Engle presented to the society the current events of the past few days.

TWO DEPUTATIONS FROM HILL DURING LAST WEEK

There were only two deputations sent out during the past week. Franklin went to speak in the Cornelius Methodist Church
at Mount Zion Church last Sunday. He chose for his subject The Fruits of the Spirit. He reported a very
good attendance and said that a fairly good meeting was held. The Methodist Church at Huntersville had L. B. Gibbs
and Herman Patterson for their speakers. Patterson chose for his subject The Power of Prayer, while Gibbs spoke on Disciples
of Christ. The Methodist church is small, but the speakers reported a very good attendance.

DR. T. W. LINGLE LECTURES ON SWITZERLAND

This evening Dr. Thomas W. Lingle will give an illustrated lecture on Switzerland, at the high school auditorium. Fifty-five pictures
will be shown, and Doctor Lingle, because of his frequent visits to the “Playground of the World,” and his accurate
knowledge of its history, is peculiarly fitted to explain and interpret them. There will be a nominal charge for admission,
the proceeds of which will go to the Davidson Civic Club.

A joint meeting of the ladies' circles of the Woman's Auxiliary will be held in the basement of the church
on Thursday afternoon. At that time there will be a Christmas party.
