Vol. XI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON - - DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 17, 1924

Varsity and Fresh Quints Open Season With Victories

First Year Men Get Away To an Auspicious Start
Greenies Win Double Bill From Greensboro and Cornelius High Schools—Hewlett is High Scorer
Sapp, Hudgins, Anderson and Simpson Start Game for Coach Rawson

Playing a fast doubleheader with Greensboro and Cornelius Highs, Friday night, the Davidson Freshmen auspiciously opened the Wildcat basketball schedule for 1924. Presenting a bewildering combination of offensive and defensive team-work, Coach Rawson's men smothered the strong Greensboro five to the merry tune of 62-18, while the formidable Cornelius quintet bowed to the second team to the score of 29-27.

In the Greensboro game, the result was never in doubt. After the first few minutes Coach Rawson's Kittens began playing with clocklike precision. The passing was almost perfect; apparently, when Anderson, Hudgins and Hewlett secured possession of the ball the opposing guards were helpless, while the defensive work was fully as admirable. The whole team featured. Time and again Hewlett dribbled the whole length of the court with ease and made his basket. His speed dazzled the high school guards. Twenty-two points show his grand total for the game.

Anderson starred with seemingly impossible shots from directly under the basket, each of which brought a broadside of applause from the fans. Hudgins played a consistent game throughout. He accounted for 10 points in spite of his lanky rival; and more remarkable still, the Greensboro center was unable to score during the whole game. No one outplayed Sapp. His long shots thrilled the spectators while his guarding was almost impenetrable. As standing guard, Simpson played a superb game. The Greensboro forwards just could not get by, through, or over him. Repeatedly, after one of them had made a bad shot, he recovered the ball single-handed and passed it out of the danger zone.

Greensboro had no stars. The whole team played hard but it was hopelessly outclassed. They made only five field goals during the game. It is more than mere dope that says the Wildkittens have the strongest Freshman team in the State. Incidentally, as this star quintet represents West Virginia, Tennessee, (Continued on page 5)

Wildcat Glee Club Sings Before a 6,500 Audience In the Huge Sunday Tabernacle

Strength of Convictions Is A. A. Walker’s Theme
Says He Would Rather See Men With Wrong Convictions Than With None

A. A. Walker, financial agent for Queens College, was the speaker at the service last Sunday afternoon. His impressive address was exceptionally well delivered after an especially good song service. The singing was led by Ted Jones, with Albert Hillhouse leading in prayer.

Mr. Walker began his address by referring to the Billy Sunday services now being held in Charlotte and especially the college service of last Friday. He said that that was the most impressive service of the meetings thus far held. Then he went straight into his discussion by stating that men are not saved by the manipulation of man, by education or skill, by might or power of man, but by God's power.

“It doesn’t make any difference what power there is,” he said, “there is always needed some conveyor to carry it to the thing that will use it. Likewise, there must be some means whereby the power of God can go into the human heart. Some call this faith. Billy Sunday would call it love. I try to think of it from one standpoint—conviction, for the power of God comes to the human heart through its convictions.”

He stated that there is no distinction between the attitude of the human heart believing in God and reading the Bible. The function of the Holy Spirit is to persuade men, which is really a conviction. It is the avenue by which the Holy Spirit enters the human heart and transforms man. Conviction sets the standard of right and wrong and enables one to draw the line between them.

“The great function of the evangelist is not to tell us of theology,” he said. “The great function of the evangelist is to so present matters that men heretofore without convictions will be able to decide things for themselves.”

He divided men into four classes in regard to conviction. First, those who have no convictions at all. Second, those who have convictions and do not dare trust them. Third, those who have convictions and do not observe them. Fourth, (Continued on page 4)

Alpha Phi Epsilon Proposes Changes In Operation of Literary Societies

At a recent meeting of the Gamma Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon an open discussion of the work done in the four literary societies was led by Prof. F. L. Dendy. The purpose of this discussion was to get clearly before the minds of the members just what are the aims of literary society work; then to try to ascertain to what extent these aims are being accomplished, and to suggest some workable plan to make the work more efficient. Right along with improvement in the art of speaking, it was seen, should be the aim of securing a good working knowledge of parliamentary procedure.

A committee appointed by the president, composed of Prof. C. K. Brown, chairman, Prof. F. L. Dendy, and one man from each of the societies, has considered the matter carefully. The purposes of the plan, and the recommendations of the committee are as follows:

Purposes:
1. To increase interest in literary society work at Davidson College.
2. To provide better opportunity for practice in the rules of parliamentary procedure.
3. To give wider opportunity to the members of the societies to speak on the programs without making the programs unduly long.

Recommendations:
1. That for a period of one term beginning with the third society term of the present year, the four literary societies organize themselves (separately) along the line of a regularly constituted legislative body.
2. That as far as may prove admirable, the present rules and form of organization of the societies be left intact, except in so far as the program is concerned.
3. That a program for each meeting be adopted as follows: (Continued on page 5)

Queens Joins Davidsonians in Lusty Tribute to Renowned Preacher

Davidson was conspicuously represented at the Billy Sunday Tabernacle in Charlotte last Friday Night when the famous evangelist made an appeal designed for college students. It was College Night at the Tabernacle, and Davidson shared the glory of the occasion with Queens College, and with representatives from local Charlotte schools. It is estimated that half a thousand college students were in attendance at the meeting. The Davidson College Glee Club presented two choruses, singing from Mr. Sunday's specially designed stand. The first selection was the Winter Song, a number used on the Southern Club tour last fall. The second number was the Awakening Chorus. Davidson aided the choir in addition to the special choruses.

The entire delegation had a part in the spirit of the meeting. Cheer Leader Allison called forth a number of popular yells that set the huge building reverberating with the strains of O! Davidson, bringing the audience of sixty-five hundred people to their feet. Queens lent their voices and lungs to the spirit of the occasion, also, giving a series of yells and songs that were enthusiastically received by the Billy Sunday (Continued on page 7)

Plans Are Launched For Gala Speaking Occasion

Juniors Class Committee Announces Campaign for More and Sweeter Girls

More and Sweeter Girls is the holidays, April 17th through21st, is the time; and Junior Speaking the Junior Week, the biggest social event of the year on the campus. The slogan, Girls, More Girls, and Sweeter Girls, falls in line with the Nothing Over Twenty-Five policy of the Juniors, for success in corralling the fair sex would mean the best speaking ever held. The program committee made arrangements to present a varied line of entertainment for the visitors. Movies, athletic contests, orations, music, plays by the Dramatic Club, and special features for Saturday afternoon and night will mark the week's festivities. As has been the custom, the Dramatic Club will present a series of one-act plays written by members of the student body. Prof. J. Erwin is the director of the club and W. T. Jones is the president of the organization. The club gives three regular programs each year, during Pan-Hellenic Week, Junior Week, and at Commencement. Several games are included in the holiday schedule. While the Varsity will not be on the hill, class games and a track meet will probably fill the bill. A tennis match is also contemplated. A. M. Martin is the chairman of the program committee and has complete charge of the week's entertainments. The other members of the committee are: J. R. Earnest, J. A. Lake, C. M. S. McIlwaine, R. W. Ocland, H. B. Price, and D. B. Wharton. Announcement of the special features of the holidays will be made later. The members of the committee feel sure that the program as outlined for this year will compare favorably with the Black Cat Cabaret of last year, and the carnival of the previous spring.

Wildcats Swamp Concord In Season’s Opener, 49-6

Linkmen Defeat Wildcats for First Time in Three Years on Home Floor

WILDCATS BEATEN 26-20

Nieman Stars in Wildcat Defeat Shooting Five Baskets in Final Period

Coach Monk's fighting Wildcats opened their season with a 49-6 victory over Concord “Y" on Saturday night and then lost a 26-20 decision to the Charlotte “Y" in the Queen City, Monday evening. The opening game on the home floor was a walkaway for the Red and Black and the game with the Linkmen was an erratic game in which neither team found the basket consistently in the first period. In the final 20 minutes, the “Y” team hit its stride and scored 19 points to the Wildcats’ 12.

Against the Queen City team, Captain Davis played a pretty floor game, but Leeper had the advantage on the tip-off. Nieman starred for the “Y," making 12 points. A. A. and After a game with the Statesville in Statesville, Thursday, the Red and Black quint opens its collegiate season with the Carolina clash in Charlotte, Saturday, the 17th.

Concord “Y” Game

Coach Monk's proteges had little difficulty in defeating the Concord Y. M. C. A. team on the home floor Saturday night by a 49-6 count. It was the opening clash of the year for the Wildcat quint and nine men were given a chance to demonstrate their ability. The feature of the game was the excellent passing which led to the Wildcat scores. Tom Staley, at forward, and Sook Boggs, at guard, were the outstanding stars of the game. Staley was high point man with 16 points. Boggs’ work as stationary guard was responsible for the low score of the visitors. Sapp, at guard, and Laird and Hewlett, forwards, also showed up well. Captain Davis played the whole game at center, and rang up 7 points for the Wildcats. Beall went in during the final minutes and shot two pretty baskets. Dick, for the visitors, shot all 6 points, while Fageart, and Holshouser each shot a field goal coming in the first half. Inaccuracy in caging foul shots marked the play of both teams, the Red and Black quint making 3 out of 9, the visitors failed on 4 attempts.

Affiliation of Phi Alpha Pi Brings Total Davidson Nationals to Eight

The Phi Alpha Pi local fraternity has amalgamated with a newly organized national fraternity, to be tentatively known as Phi Kappa Pi. The formation of the new organization was the outcome of a meeting last month in New York City at the Pennsylvania Hotel of the Inter-Local Fraternity Conference, at which 84 local fraternities were represented. The conference was held in conjunction with and upon the invitation of the National Inter-Fraternity Conference, which strongly endorsed the organization of the new national. Its organization was sponsored by the National Inter-Fraternity Conference in an effort to help meet the imperative demand for more fraternities in American colleges. Twelve local fraternities were chosen on a selective basis as the charter members of the new national fraternity. They represent the following institutions: Pennsylvania State College, University of New Hampshire, Stevens Institute of Technology, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, University of Illinois, University of Chattanooga, Bucknell University, Temple University, Davidson College, Nebraska Wesleyan University, George Washington University, and Iowa State College. All of these but the last three named have already ratified their entrance into the organization.

One of the requirements for membership in the organization is that the chapter must have a house. Exceptions to this ruling were made to the Temple University and Davidson chapters because of the peculiar situation at these institutions. The other 10 chapters have houses. Petitions for charters have been received from local fraternities at the University of Vermont, University of New Mexico, Rollins College, University of Hanover, and Miami University. No decision will be made in regard to them before the convention of the new national fraternity.