THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 30, 1924

REPEAT NINETEEN SIXTEEN SCORE DOWN CLEMSON CAROLINA TRINITY

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Good Orchestra Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits In the better fabrics ($40) It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.

The TATE-BROWN CO. “Equipment for Every Sport” Spalding Reach Goldsmith Goods

Chance at State Honors Hangs in Balance Friday Wildcats Heavily Outweighed Face Crucial Test With Carolina Techmen at Pinehurst

Whether or not Davidson will remain in the race for state championship honors will be decided Friday at Pinehurst, in the game with N. C. State. The game will be called at 12 o'clock and is to be one of the features of the Sandhill Fair. Much interest in the game is being manifested on all sides and the showing of the light Davidson team against their heavier opponents will be watched closely.

Outweighed on the line 22 pounds to the man, the Davidson forward wall is being given special coaching by Coach Tex all this week. Each day hard scrimmage and signal practice is held until late evening smoothing out the rough spots and strengthening the weak ones discovered in the Furman game.

The Techmen enter the contest having lost four games and won one. Particular attention must be taken, however, of their severe schedule this year. The record shows losses to Penn State, N. Carolina University, S. Carolina University, and V. M. I., with a win from Trinity. State’s real strength cannot be told by a perusal of the results. Their true strength was displayed in the V. M. I. game last week. While V. ran up 17 points in the first two quarters, State woke up and, taking the ball on a grand march down the field, bucked it over for a touchdown. In the last half, the Techmen played V. M. I. to a standstill, the score for the final period being 0-0.

Davidson takes the field Friday with five victories and one loss to their credit. Having defeated Elon, P. C., Richmond University, Wofford, and Lenoir, and having lost to Furman by a small margin, the Wildcats have a fine chance of annexing State's scalp. The team is now unusually fit and trim. With an eight-day rest and plenty of practice and time for old injuries to heal, the Red and Black warriors should be able to play one of the best games of their season. Sappenfield, Covington, Hendrix, McComb, Hunt, and Black are clipping off long gains through the line and around end, and on the line Baker, Boggs, McConnell, and Laird seem to be able to take care of anything that comes their way. Captain Nappy Davis is back in the game looking like a million dollars, and he, Bohannon, Cox, and Pinkney may be counted on for the wing positions. Another mountain of strength to the team is the remarkable number of good reserves which may be counted on in any emergency.

Rev. J. A. G. Moore, who was the first Y. M. C. A. secretary that Davidson had, has just been appointed pastor of the Cornell Student Church. This church has 7,000 members and represents six different denominations.

The Davidson scrubs went to Bingham Military School seeking revenge this past week. They got it—13 to 0.

GROUND GAINED BY DAVIDSON BACKS IN FURMAN UNIV. GAME
Hewlett: 11
McComb: 2
Total: 234

Wright & Ditson Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street

The Kick-Off By Don Wharton

This afternoon the Davidson squad left to meet North Carolina State, a team that outweighs the Wildcats 22 pounds to the man on the line and 10 pounds in the backfield. Last Saturday the Techmen showed a great comeback after the Flying Squadron had them 17-0. Taking the ball in their own territory in the second quarter, Buck Shaw's men ploughed through the V. M. I. team for a touchdown, and played the Virginians off their feet in the second half. Their record this year shows four defeats and one victory—games lost to the best teams in the South Atlantic and also Penn State, and a 14-to-0 victory over Trinity.

Davidson, playing an entirely different schedule, has come out with five victories and one defeat. The game lost was to the only Southern Conference team the Wildcats have played. The game that Davidson played cannot be told by the score. Getting more first downs and gaining more ground, Coach Younger's outfit lost by a single blocked punt.

With Sappenfield back to direct the Davidson attack and with Flake Laird again in the line, the team will be considerably strengthened. All hope has not gone! The Furman game showed that Younger has some strong reserves. Holding the powerful backs of Furman for four downs within the three-yard line with several subs in the Davidson line shows that along with the offense and line interference, Coaches Tex and Monk have built a fighting line, a line that can be relied upon at the critical moments.

Although two records were blasted Wednesday when Davidson was defeated and scored upon, do not forget that no team has been able to run over or through or around the Davidson line for atouchdown. After months of obscurity, Popsy Hunt returned to his place among the galaxy of Davidson stars when he played the greatest defensive game of his life, and for three times slipped away from the Furman outfit for 25-yard gains. Not once did the officials have to penalize the Wildcats in Columbia. Not since October, 1916, has a Davidson eleven placed the Red and Black above the Red and White of N. C. State, and that was the only year that Monk Younger ever played for Davidson. Coach Rawson's Yearlings looked like they contained some great players last Friday. This afternoon's tilt with the little Blue Devils will bring some state publicity to the squad. Efforts are being made to arrange a game with the State College first-year men. We couldn't go to press without a word of praise for the greatest passing attack seen on Richardson Field—Jones, Clemson Fresh, running around left end and passing with his left arm and then around right with his right—perfectly timed; 75 yards in three plays.

LOMBARD ENTERTAINERS
(Continued from page 1)
The role of the boy is taken by Mr. Lombard and that of the girl by Miss Fairchild. The scene was full of jokes and witty sayings interspersed with songs and readings. The entire program was of the highest type and entertaining to the fullest extent. Judging from the way this program was received by the audience, the next performance will have a large attendance. The class of entertainments being brought here by the Junior class this year is of unusually high calibre. Mrs. J. R. Crayton had as weekend guests her mother from Charlotte, and a friend from Richmond.

Undefeated Fresh Again to Play on Richardson Field
Trinity Eleven to Invade Davidson Territory Here Friday Afternoon
Spurred on by their victory over the fast and hard-fighting Tiger Cubs and eager to keep their slate clean, the Wildkittens are hard at work in preparation for their battle with the Trinity Freshmen here this Friday. With a reputation of being fast and heavy, and led by Swift, former Greensboro star, the Trinity outfit presents a dangerous appearance and it will take fight to down them. Undiscouraged by their past record and anxious to break the jinx which appears to be hanging over them, the Trinity Fresh are determined to take the Davidson team into camp. Unusually hard luck seems to be the measure of the future Blue Devils this year. Their loss to Greensboro Hi was a victory so far as first downs and ground gained are concerned, but a recovered kick over Trinity’s goal gave Greensboro the game 7-0. Trinity also lost to the Wake Forest Fresh 13-6 and played Oak Ridge to a 0-0 tie. In the first game of the season, however, they beat Mars Hill 13-0. The Davidson Freshmen are very enthusiastic over their showing in the past games and are working hard to go through the season undefeated. At present their chances look unusually bright, but they have a hard grind ahead. Although the Clemson tilt was a hard-fought game and one that taxed the team to the utmost, there were few injuries and with the exception of the usual stiff joints and bruises the team is in very good shape. Coach Rawson will start practically the same team Friday that he used against Clemson last week. The probable line-up will be:

Davidson. Position. Trinity.
Melton or McEachern .......... Finley Left end
Ritchie ......................... Covington Left tackle
Simons .......................... Jones Left guard
Means ........................... Seay Center
Grey ............................ Weatherly Right guard
Gibson ......................... Stevens Right tackle
Arrowood ...................... Kelley Right end
Wilson .......................... Witts (G) Quarterback
Grey (G) ....................... Sellars Right half
Overton ......................... McClean Fullback
Nisbets .......................... Bolich Left half

PRAYER GROUPS RECEIVED IMPETUS DURING THE WEEK
The organized prayer groups among the students are meeting regularly every morning. Each dormitory has one or more groups composed of about five men each. A regular course of Bible study is being carried on in several of these meetings. There are about seventeen groups in all, meeting at about 7:40. On Saturday morning a union meeting is held in Dr. Shewmake’s classroom over the armory. There are about eighty men actually taking part in these meetings. When the membership of a group reaches about ten, they divide, forming two separate circles. The purpose of the groups is to promote the spirit of Christian life and fellowship on the campus. They furnish a bond between the members that is indeed valuable, and it is to be hoped that they will grow until they include every man on the campus.

Julius Hall bought some moth balls from Skit McConnell the other day but took them back as he said that he threw for over two hours and never hit a single moth.

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Old Stand
CIGARETTES CANDIES CIGARS SANDWICHES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
“U-DRIVE’MS”
Wholesale

When You Need Candies See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.