THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924

ALUMNI! REMEMBER HOME

Alumni News

’78—Dr. A. L. Blanding is a physician in Fountain Inn, S.C.
’78—Rev. D. I. Craig, pastor in Reidsville, N.C., was elected stated clerk of North Carolina Synod, at the last meeting
which convened in Washington, N.C.
’78—H. E. Fries is now president of Winston-Salem Southbound Railroad.
’78—C. J. Harris, Jr., is now a merchant and farmer in Concord, N.C.
’78—Dr. D. C. Mebane is living at 713 Sherman Avenue, Evanston, IL.
’78—Rev. G. F. Robertson is pastor in Bristol, Tenn.
’78—Rev. A. Glid; si G.
’79—J. W. Osbourne has his law offices at 115 Broadway, New York.
’13—R. C. Long is now assistant secretary to the Stewardship Committee of Chattanooga, Tenn. Mr. Long was not in college
but he has been very successful since leaving college, and he appears in the public press quite often. He has
written several books on Stewardship, and his articles appear weekly in the religious press.
’18—S. T. McCloy, a Rhodes Scholar, has spent the past year at Oxford adding a B.A. degree to his B.
Litt. in Theology. After taking part in the Olympics at Paris, Mack returned to the States for a visit before
leaving in August for Constantinople. He is to be Y.M.C.A. secretary at Robert College. He vigorously disclaims matrimonial intentions but
one has his suspicions.
’21—Mr. R. C. Clontz, pastor of Bethel Church, at Cornelius, has been elected Superintendent of Home Missions of Wilmington Presbytery
to succeed Rev. J. J. Murray, ’09, who has been called to Lexington, Va.

The following men were on the Hill the past weekend: Rev. S. W. Moore, ’03, of Bluefield, W. Va.; Rev.
J. K. Hobson, ’17; Rev. W. C. Kourk, ’16; C. H. Long, ’20; D. J. Chipman, ’24; A. C. Reels,
’24; J. M. Gaston, ’21; W. H. Moore, ’23; M. B. Foil, ’23; K. L. Morrison, ex-’17; Rev. R. S.
Burwell; Rev. J. A. McQueen, ’05, of Rockingham, N.C.; W. C. “Cicero” Gaither, ’21, of Nashville, Tenn.; W. S. Buchanan,
’23, of Shelby, N.C.

The following alumni were at the State-Davidson game in Pinehurst, N.C.: K. A. McDonald, ’16; Wm. Hollister, ’16; J. M.
McBryde, ’16; J. D. McLeod, ’16; DeWhitt Kluttz, ’11; H. Lawrence Wilkinson, ’13; E. G. Clary, ’16; Dr. E. M.
Summerell, ’76; Coach Robert Fetzer, of Carolina, ’17; Rev. J. A. McQueen, ’05; W. J. Martin, Jr., ’23; G. B.
Sorrells, ’23; Harold McKethin, ’22; E. T. McKethin, ’20; Alec Shaw, ’18; Duncan Shaw, ’16; Geo. Hodgin, ’24; W. B.
Sullivan, ’20; E. H. Graham, ’13; Oren Moore, ’08; J. M. Hendrix, ’14; H. C. McPherson, ’25. And Sam Story,
’22, led the cheering.

’14—Dr. W. H. Sprunt, Jr., M.D., formerly with Mayo Brothers in Minneapolis, has opened an office for his own practice
in Winston-Salem.
’15—J. E. “Enoch” Faw stopped at Davidson last week on his way to New York to take up his work
with the American Telegraph and Telephone Co.
’17—Kemp Hobson, who is a missionary to the Congo, stopped in Davidson for a few days on his way through
the country.
’20—D. R. Freeman, who was at Union Seminary last year, has taken a charge at Keesville, Tenn.
’21—J. H. Sample, who graduated from the law department of the University of North Carolina, has opened offices in the
Jackson Building, Asheville, N.C.

Weddings
’14—Invitations have been received to the wedding of R. F. Brownlee and Miss Eunice Provost Evans, of Anderson, S.C. The
wedding is to take place Wednesday, November 19, 1924.

ERROR
By mistake, last week, the names of T. M. Hill, Wm. Hollister, G. B. Hoyt, and R. D. Hughes were
in reversed order under their pictures.

GREENSBORO COLLEGE IS (Continued from page 1)
...ium, where an interesting and entertaining program was given by students of Greensboro College. Several musical numbers and a one-act
play were the features. This luncheon, given in the tea room, proved one of the most novel affairs of the
convention. Tables seating four were scattered through the room and on these tables were menus written in the most approved
newspaper style. Miss Bertie Craig acted as toastmistress and toasts were made by J. M. Saunders, Sam Davis, Ruth Hoyle,
Maude Goodwin, Tempie Williams, Mae Graham, and Lisbeth Parrott, of N.C.C.W. Music was furnished by several talented young ladies of
the college.

The banquet given by Greensboro College, Friday evening, was a success from every standpoint. Miss Hoyle acted as toastmistress and
with the help of a few funsters in the gathering, kept everyone in a joyous mood. The menu was an
excellent one and the music made by the college girls added greatly to the occasion. Several faculty members of Greensboro
College were present.

The entire delegation was the guest of the Greensboro Daily News after the banquet, and an interesting time was spent
in the new home of this paper which has lately been occupied. The entire time was gone over and the
various phases of newspaper work were pointed out by several members of the staff. The mailing room, composing room, press
room, and photography and engraving departments were inspected; each observer getting a much clearer idea of the inner workings of
a modern journal.

At the meeting held Saturday morning, Davidson was selected as the meeting place for the next semi-annual meeting which will
be held next April. A resolution was adopted in which appreciation was expressed towards G.C.W. and N.C.C.W. for their gracious
hospitality. The address by Mr. Johnston was well received by the delegates. He spoke of the differences between a newspaper
and a magazine. According to Mr. Johnston, the aspect of the writer and his personal viewpoint are the principal differences
in the two publications. The meeting adjourned at noon Saturday.

The names of the delegates and the names of their publications are given below:
The Davidsonian, C. F. Smith, W. E. Milton, W. H. Branch; Davidson College Magazine, H. D. Burke; Trinity Archive, J.
J. Farris, C. H. Pegram; Trinity Chronicle, G. W. Allen, F. H. Shinn; G.C.W. Message, Misses Ruth Hoyle and Dixie
Reaves; The Meredith Twig, Misses Blanche Stokes and Dorothy McBrayer; The Meredith Acorn, Misses Raeford Hatcher and Vera P. Milton;
Carolina Tar-Heel, J. H. Lineberger, J. M. Saunders; N.C.C.W. Carolinian, Misses Ruth Hoyle and Dixie Reaves; Salemite, Misses Maude Goodwin
and Tempie Williams.

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

PETE CRAYTON, ’15
The “old grads” of ’15 still talk of “Pete” Crayton’s spectacular catch of a Davidson pass in the Carolina game
that year; and always they sorrowfully add, “and he liked to have got away for a touchdown.” “Pete” didn't go
out for varsity football till his last two years, but then easily made his letter on end, and proved to
be a very valuable one. While he was indeed a good offensive end, yet his value lay in his splendid
work on the defensive. Weighing 172 pounds and being 6 feet tall, he was a terror to any attempted play
on his side of the line, often smearing it up before it was well started. In the write-up of the
Davidson-Citadel game of his junior year, The Charlotte News says, “The playing of Crayton on the defense was spectacular, as
time and time again he broke up the Citadel plays.” In his last year, “Pete” continued his great playing and
was a big factor in the record of the team. The editors of “Quips and Cranks” in the individual account
of the team has this about Crayton: “For the past two seasons ‘Pete’ has been an invaluable player on the
Red and Black. Cool-headed and able to keep his feet when...Interference he strength to Fet- In another section of the
machine, came, was a great zer’s defense.” Same annual, there is this sentence about his football ability: “In football, ‘Pete’
is somewhat a combination of a war-horse and a brick wall. “Pete” was also a varsity man in baseball and
won his letter in this sport for three years, holding down the position of second base. Just as in football,
he was a very valuable man, and always could be depended on. He was elected captain of the nine for
the season and under his able leadership, the team went forward for a very successful season. In addition to being
a great athlete, “Pete” held several important positions, being president of the “D” Club, and a member of the Executive
Committee of the Athletic Association.

Union, Misses: Eleanor Vanneman and Sam Davis; V.C.C. W. Corraddi, Misses Maude B. Goodwin and Lisbeth Parrott; N.C. State Technician,
W. M. Brenner, R. E. Raper; Misses Dorothy Miriam Brietz; Queens Blues, Misses Agnes Efird, Julia Boone and Helen Allison;
Wake Forest Old Gold and Black, A. J. Newton, L. R. Vann; Davenport Weekly Record, Misses Virginia Bellenger and Minnie
Leatherwood; Guilfordian, E. P. Brown, Lucile Purdie, Siewers and ATTENTION ALUMNI.

Arrangements have been made for the seating of all alumni in the special section reserved for the student body, where
you can join in with the cheering for your team. We are looking for you and counting on your support.
The Clemson alumni have made plans for organized rooting at the game Saturday. Don’t let them outdo you.

Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday

Court of Control
Pan Literary Societies 4:30 P.M.
Glee Club 7:30 P.M.
Phi Literary Societies 4:30 P.M.
Scabbard and Blade 7:15-8:30 P.M.
Y. Cabinet 6:30 P.M.
Movies 7:15-8:30 P.M.
Ministerial Classes 7:15-8:30 P.M.
Bible Classes 7:00 P.M.
Glee Club 9:00 P.M.
Senior Class 10:00 P.M.
Vesper Y. 6:15 P.M.

Second and Fourth Weeks

Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
Sunday

Pan Literary Societies 4:30 P.M.
Glee Club 7:30 P.M.
Phi Literary Societies 4:30 P.M.
Davidsonian 7:15-8:30 P.M.
Y. Cabinet 6:30 P.M.
Movies 7:15-8:30 P.M.
Ministerial Classes 7:15-8:30 P.M.
Student Council 7:00 P.M.
Glee Club 9:00 P.M.
Movies 9:00 P.M.
Vesper Y. 6:15 P.M.

One-Act Plays Will be Presented by Students

Three Students Have Written Play for Presentation on November 14

The Dramatic Club is planning to present, during the weekend of the Carolina game, three original one-act plays. The first,
Understudying Lancelot, is a realistic study of two Davidson College Seniors and the methods employed by them to beguile the
time while riding on trains. The scene is a Pullman car on the Southern Railroad between Hickory and Statesville. The
climax comes with the overturning of the train. The author of the play is S. W. Brown.

The second play, Ellen, was written by D. M. Currie, of last year’s Freshman class, and I. J. Erwin. The
scene is laid in a mountain cabin. The play portrays the miseries of a moonshiner’s daughter, whose lover has been
converted at a camp-meeting.

The third play, Blue Blood, has its setting in the editorial office of the Elliston Eagle. It is a study
of sectional prejudice. The play was written by C. F. Smith. The various casts will be announced later. Rehearsals are
now in progress.

“OH TIME IN THY FLIGHT”

Year Place Davidson Clemson
1900 Clemson 0 10
1901 Charlotte 7 0
1902 Clemson 10 6
1903 Columbia 13 0
1904 Charlotte 5 7
1905 Clemson 4 5
1906 Davidson 7 0
1907 Clemson 6 6
1908 Charlotte 33 0
1909 Charlotte 21 7
1910 Clemson 0 7
1911 Clemson 0 7
Total 144 44

TWO SIDEWALKS NOW LEAD TO JAYBIRDSVILLE STATION

Another step has been taken in the transformation of Davidson into a city. There is now a sidewalk on both
sides of Depot Street. There has been but one sidewalk in the past, on the north side of the street.
The new walk runs from Main Street to Railroad Avenue, and has a very pleasing effect, being more symmetrical. Formerly
the visitor to Davidson did not know whether to go to the east or west after disembarking from the train.
But now he looks and sees a paved street with sidewalks on both sides; in the place of two or
three unsightly structures he sees a modern brick structure housing the new hotel and two new grocery stores. The electric
sign above the hotel announces it as such in a very city-like fashion.

From The Blue Stocking, official publication of the Presbyterian College of South Carolina, it is learned that the Presbyterian College
has just completed a new dormitory for its students, which will be known as Smyth Hall. A large gymnasium is
also in course of construction, which, when completed, is expected to be one of the best gyms in the state
of South Carolina.—Exchange.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in
your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department.

COMING DAY, NOVEMBER 15

DR. FRAZER SPEAKS (Continued from page 1)

Duty laid upon them and then put all that they have into the work. Associate every ounce of consciousness of
your duty with your energy resource, and respond with every bit of your personality. “But there must accompany this recognition
of obligation, the spirit of faith in God, the feeling of humility before Him. The man who can recognize his
duty, and then give all that he possesses to the work, coupled with faith in God, has his future assured.
Elisha, not in his own strength, but in the power of God, achieved great success in his work. “Put your
best into it; make yourself as capable as possible, and then couple with this the power of God. Lay hold
on the power God has promised. Not by our own strength, but by our personalities empowered by association with Him,
let us go out into the world to assume our duties.”

D. G. Wilson led the singing, Purdy was pianist, Buck Shaw and Mae Beall led in prayer during the opening
exercises. Gray rendered a violin solo during the meeting.

Furman registers this claim: “The Hornet is perhaps the first college newspaper in the State, or even in the South,
to be put on sale and actually sold by newsboys.”—Exchange.

Young Men Tell Us We’ve Scored A Bullseye

There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s
vigor, life, ZIP in them.

Mellon’s
Charlotte, N.C.
Phone 8940
