THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

SPORTS

The hot water is conspicuous by its absence, the mud conspicuous by its presence, and the lights almost inconspicuous. The outcome is eagerly awaited by the student body.

His work with men has been notably successful. He is the type of speaker who gets under a man’s shirt. He is simple, plain, and direct in his talking, and will put the proposition directly to his audience.

HENDRIX AND SAPPENFIELD

(Continued from page 1)

Line-up and summary follow:

Davidson (15) Position Presbyterian (3)

Warner, who returns six. Ball on P. C. 21-yard line. P. C. recovers fumble for five-yard loss. Robinson barely makes one yard over center, Warner punts to Sappenfield on Davidson 39-yard line. No gain Davidson; Black goes through center for two on spread formation, Leggette punts to P. C. 23-yard line, no return, Bluestocking back fumbles, Davidson recovers on 39-yard line. Sapp loses two on left end run; Hendrix makes eight yards around right end. Hendrix wide end run does not gain. P. C. intercepts Davidson pass on 24-yard line. Warner punt blocked by Davidson line, Summers misses recovering for touchdown by inches, back makes safety. Score, Davidson 2, P. C. 3.

Davidson wins toss and Black kicks over goal line for touchback. Robinson makes four over Davidson right guard; Copeland goes four at same place. P. C. is offside, Warner fumbles but recovers on eight-yard line. Davidson offside on punt. Warner goes for three over line. Wilson thrown for no gain. Warner punts to Davidson forty-one yard line. Sapp fails to gain see center. Wells goes six around left end. Sapp punts fifty yards to Robinson; downed by Baker, Davidson tackle, on fifteen-yard line, ball on 31-yard line. Warner pass broken up. Warner gets off punt to Davidson 30-yard line. Hendrix sidesteps through P. C. backfield for 32 yards and first down, Ball on P. C. 34-yard line. Davis’ interference makes this possible.

Davidson made 12 first downs, Captain Davis and Tom Baker stood out in the line.

First Quarter

Davidson 0, P. C. 0.

Second Quarter

P. C. offside, first and 15 on 19 yard line; Copeland makes five around right end. Warner makes five over line. Robinson makes it fourth and two on Davidson seven-yard line. Ball goes over as Davidson line strengthens, Davidson ball on five-yard line. Black makes five yards over center, Sapp’s punt blocked by P. C., Hendrix recovering for Davidson. Sapp’s punt goes out on 10-yard line. Robinson goes three over center. Warner goes two yards over right guard. P. C. gains one. Fourth down and four to go. Warner place-kicks for 15 yards. Score, Davidson 0, P. C. 3; Warner kicks to Summers on Davidson 30-yard line. Hendrix makes four around left end. Hendrix makes first down through line. Wells goes for one yard over right tackle. Sapp goes eight off left tackle. Black makes first down. Ball on P. C. 41-yard line. Sapp loses one around end; Hendrix makes 17 yards and first down around left end. Sapp makes seven around right end. Sapp squeezes one out of right tackle. Black takes ball all but nine inches. Black makes first down. Davidson ball on P. C. 16-yard line. Hendrix gets one yard around end. Black makes three over right tackle. Covington does not gain over left end. Fourth down and six to go; ball on 16-yard line. Hunt's place-kick goes back. Bohannon gets P. C. back on five-yard line. Robinson makes one over center. Copeland gets only a yard over Davidson's right guard. Warner punts to Davidson on P. C. 28-yard line. Half ends; score Davidson 0, P. C. 3. First downs, Davidson 4, P. C. 3, all on penalties.

Second Half—Third Quarter

P. C. kicks to Black, who returns for seven yards to 24-yard line. Wells makes five yards around right end. Sappenfield makes five over right end. Black gets first down. Ball on Davidson 35-yard line. Sapp races around left end for six, Wells drives over right tackle for three. Captain Davis goes into air to get 20-yard pass from Sappenfield and carries ball 14 yards to P. C. one-yard line. Black over for touchdown and kicks goal. Score, Davidson 9, P. C. 3. Black kicks off to three-yard line, Warner returning for 25 yards. Davidson offside, as Pinkney throws back for eight-yard loss, Quarter ends.

Fourth Quarter

P. C. has ball on 34-yard line. Makes first down on another penalty. Robinson gets four yards over left tackle. P. C. offside. Warner's pass intercepted by Black on P. C. 33 yard line. Hendrix drives for nine yards and makes first down, Black makes two yards over center, Hendrix fails to gain. Leggette punts for 45 yards over goal line.

Substitutes—For Davidson: Hendrix, Covington, Hunt, Leggette, McCombs, Pinkney, McConnell, Anderson, Lincoln, McCaulay, Christian. For P. C.: Hunter and Edmunds. Scoring touchdowns: Black, Hendrix. Field goals: Warner. Time of quarters: 15-15-15-15. Attendance: 3,000.

Officials — Referee, Perry (Sewanee); umpire, Hartsell (N. C. State); headlinesman, Talmon (Rutgers).

RAWSON PUT YEARLINGS INTO ACTION

(Continued from page 2)

McNeil (Raeford) - Fowler
Right guard

Veus (C) - Wiggs
Right tackle

Arrowood (Shelby) - Griffin
Right tackleend. P. C. recovers own fumble on 20-yard line. Wilson (Charlotte) - - - - - Morgan Warner punts 60 yards to Davidson 40-yard line. Sappenfield gets three yards around right end. Hendrix goes for five around other. Black goes over center for four yards and first down. Black makes two over left tackle; Hendrix comes through with brilliant broken-field run for 45 yards and touchdown. Black fails to make point, blocked. Score, Davidson 12, P. C. 0.

Quarterback: Nesbit (Charlotte) - - - - - Hallman
Right half: McMillan (Charlotte) - - - - Stewart
Left half: Gray (Davidson) - - - - Askew
Fullback: McColgin

Other Davidson men showing up well are Arbuckle, ends; Proctor, Niceler, and Chatham, centers; McNeely and Horton are prominent Monroe subs. Warner punts to Davidson 10-yard line, returning 10 yards. Sappenfield makes two yards over left tackle. Davidson offside. Warner hits stone wall to Sappenfield on 16; no returns. Leggette drives for 15 yards and first down over line. Black takes ball for five over guard, Hendrix fails to gain. Hendrix makes six yards and first down, dragging tacklers for five yards. Davidson penalized 15 yards. Sappenfield makes two yards in two plays over guards. Leggette punts, Pinkney, right end, diving five yards for ball, and keeping it from rolling over goal line by one yard. Davidson called back after Sappenfield returns punt for 25 yards.

Coach Monk Younger has almost entire second team in now. Lincoln falls on P. C. fumble for what would have been touchdown had not Davidson been offside. Pinkney makes one arm interception of P. C. pass. Ball on P. C. 21-yard line. Hunt makes three yards. Covington does not gain; around left end. Covington runs for eight yards on out-back and end-run. Black makes first down for Davidson. Sappenfield makes two yards. Game ends with ball in Davidson’s possession, second and eight to go on P. C. eight-yard line.

Other Davidson men showing up well are: tackle; Niceler and Chatham, centers; McNeely and Horton are prominent Monroe subs.

BEN FRANKLIN BENEFACTOR

Everyone will enjoy the message that this son of Davidson has in store for Sunday.

New York Cafe
29 West Trade St.
Davidson Men Always Welcome

Who Knows?
That an early issue of the Davidson College Monthly contained articles on such subjects as Lord Byron, Atheistic Evolution, and proof that no good comes of studying Latin and Greek.
That the following local item appeared in the Davidson College Monthly for April, 1886: “The campus is holding its own. We have neat and brilliant lamps and macadamized walks are soon to follow.”
That in former days stag dances were held in the old chapel. These were moved to the Math room, where the seats were nailed to the floor.
That in the dimensions of the class of '86 there was one graduate who was 17 years old, four feet seven inches tall, and weighed 340 pounds.
That Princeton took in $2,002.64 for football in 1888 and was censured by the Davidson College Monthly for such thing.
That 50 years ago each class had 15 recitations a week and the faculty increased these to 18.
That in 1887 very good board could be obtained for $6.49 a month.
That the diversion at one time of the students was to run around the campus, a distance of 2,380 feet. The best time recorded was two minutes and two seconds.
That a petition of the student body to go to Statesville to hear a certain Dr. Pearsons preach was turned down by the faculty.
That at one time “fire” was known as “WAKOTY CRIBS.”

REV. J. F. PHARR SPEAKS AT SUNDAY “Y” SERVICE

The Y. M. C. A. is fortunate in having secured as a speaker for Sunday, Rev. J. F. Pharr, known as “Tim” during his college days. He was a member of the class of ‘12, and a student at Union Theological Seminary. While at Davidson, he was a star in football.

Since his graduation, he has been a teacher in Westminster School and at Clarkton, N. C. He was pastor at San Antonio and Mercedes, Texas, for a while, and came from Renick, W. Va., to Gastonia, where he is now pastor. Before going to Gastonia, he turned down a number of insistent calls, one of which was to be secretary of the “Y” at Davidson College. He was in the Army in 1918 and 1919.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

STATISTICS TELL THE STORY

CLEANING DYEING PRESSING

1st Q. 2nd Q. 3rd Q. 4th Q. Total Game
D. P.C. D. P.C. D. P.C. D. P.C. D. P.C.
First downs earned 0 0 4 0 3 0 4 0 12 0
First downs on penalties 0 2 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 3
Forward passes attempted 2 0 1 0 3 0 2 0 8 0
Forward passes completed 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0
Forward passes intercepted 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0
Ground gained passes 0 0 0 0 35 0 0 0 35 0
Ground gained end-runs 11 1 29 4 59 0 28 0 127 4
Ground gained miscellaneous plays 2 0 3 19 6 6 0 65 6 90 15
Ground gained bucking line 27 0 22 12 10 7 2 43 0 2 34
Ground gained from scrimmage 11 25 68 20 107 2 136 6 312 53
Ground gained return punts 18 6
Ground gained return kickoffs 7 35
Distance kick-offs (average) 47 20 40 48
Total ground gained 82 3