THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13, 1924

Old Grads, Get Together For the Big Game
WALTON HOTEL
New - Modern
Rates $1.00 and $2.00
5th and College Streets
Charlotte

H. M. JOHNSTON
FANCY GROCERIES
See Me for Feeds
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
After Every Meal
It’s the longest-lasting confection you can buy—and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser for the mouth and teeth. Wrigley’s means benefit as well as pleasure. Sealed in its Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S & W Cafeteria

SERVICE SATISFACTION
That’s what we give
Cleaning and Pressing
Tobe Johnson

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Goat Lewis is going to name his Ford “Dice,” because she shakes, rattles, and rolls.

Prof.—“Mr. Kugler, what do you think of the Turkish massacres?”
Abe—“I don’t smoke, sir.”

Phil Cox says that in spite of his skill at horseshoes he couldn't ring his girl.

Sen Franklin—“How old is that flapper?”
Spider Webb—“In her nicoteens.”

Sambo—“Go swipe one of Mr. Brown's chickens; he won't shoot a colored man.”
Jake—“I ain’t takin’ no chances. He might be color blind.”

Undertaker—“Jones is in a bad hole.”
Pluto Trawick—“Howzat?”
Undertaker—“I buried him yesterday.”

Jack Hand is so dumb that he thinks that the Hall of Oratory is a museum.

Any—“An’ then they jam two days what oughta be holidays into one. That's what I calls Ikgology.”
Wildcat—“That ain't the half of it. They rams two together ’n’ make us drill half the day an’ listen to speeches the other half.”

“Naughty, naughty,” said Peewee McCravey as he looked at the grade on his Greek and Latin reviews.

“No, Romeo, the quartette from Rigoletto is not the pint size on imported stuff.”

“You never can tell,” said the old man as he pinched the corn’s ears.

It’s all right to pick a chicken, but leave the neck alone.

“A little bit goes a long ways,” said the monkey as he spat over the cliff.

Summers—“What is it that has four legs and flies all around?”
Legette—“I’ll bite.”
Sam—“A dead horse.”

Parson at Sunday School—“Can anybody tell me where men go who shoot craps on Sunday?”
Willie—“Behind the barn.”

Doctor—“You have acute appendicitis.”
Fair Patient—“Oh, doctor, don’t flatter me.”

Drunk—“Shay, is this a hand laundry?”
Manager—“Yes.”
Drunk—“Wash my hands, will ya?”

Ode to John
Clatter and clash,
Slinga da hash,
Smasha de deesh
And twirla moustache.
Loupa de loop,
Sloopa da soup,
Winka da lady
No giva da hoop.

Don’t Get Homesick, Fresh
Always remember and bear in mind,
The old cow’s tail hangs down behind.
It’s old and ugly, full of cockleburrs,
But the old cow loves it just because it’s hers.

Down in the Colored Regiment
Lieut—“Eyes Right!”
Rookie—“Who’s right?”
First Sgt—“Shut up niggah, he’s right.”

Never go into the water after a hearty meal, because you won't find it.

Mary Jane—“Rastus, I dreamed last night you give me a black eye.”
Rastus—“Name de day, gal, name de day.”

“Abie, vot are de five senses?”
“Nickels.”

“What is a groundhog?” asked the prof.
“Sausage,” answered Sook Boggs, from the peanut gallery.

Red Holshauser (shopping at Woolworth’s with his girl)—“Here’s a lovely sentiment on this greeting card: ‘To the only Boy I ever loved.’”
The Fair One—“That's fine.” Turning to the clerk: “Give me five of those, please.”

The Davidsonian wishes to announce the completion of the historic work: “Confessions of a Map Salesman” “Why Boys Return Home,” by Tbit Too, I

Oh the salesman’s thoughts are the same old thoughts
Of men and maps, and maps and men
And men and maps and money.
It’s the same old way the livelong day
And tomorrow it’s over again
'Tis money and maps, and maps and men
And money and maps and men,
'Tis the same old song the whole day long
With never even a lapse
Of men and money and money and men
And men and money and maps.

Fresh Lowrnace admits that he wrote this little ditty to his best girl soon after his arrival at Davidson:
“They took me to a thing they called a shower bath
The water came in the ceiling
And went right out through the floor.”

Montgomery—“Well, I used to do so, but I had to quit because when I put the ball where I can see it I can’t hit it, and when I put it where I can hit it I can’t see it.”

ARMISTICE DAY (Continued from page 1)
dawn waiting for the zero hour to come which would send him out across “No Man's Land” to meet the Hun held the audience. But this picture of apparent hate was contrasted to the real thoughts of the soldier as he pictured in his mind how this land where war was raging could be turned into a land where peace reigned and war was forgotten. The speaker then described the soldiers as making a solemn promise that they would come true. Mr.Lockhart said it was not true when the cynics said the Americans did not know what they were fighting for, but only went blindly into battle because commanded to. He told of the American soldier's ideal, and declared that there was no bitterness or hatred in his heart for the German people. Wilson's attitude during the war and the ideals he had for America were spoken of. He stated, “A nation which had astonished the world by its vigorous unity in battle, left mankind aghast at its indifference to the result of its sacrifices.”

From this point, Mr. Lockhart went into a discussion of the “ideal government” and what ideals of government the founders of Davidson had. He spoke of the courage of Dr. Morrison and his associates in the early days of Davidson, and the rich heritage which they have left the students of today. “America needs as never before, leadership ’midst such surroundings—leadership of patriotism, of visions, and of courage,” so said the speaker. He called on Davidson men to take the ideals of Wilson and Dr. Morrison, and other men who have had great ideals of government and life in general, and to strive to carry out these ideals and make life better with them. With these words, Mr. Lockhart closed his address: “Young men now entering upon your careers as sovereigns of America, here where the best of his mind was formed, his early and lasting training received, may we fervently pray that each of you may hear and heed the voice from the tomb of Woodrow Wilson.”

Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Davidson, made a short but interesting talk on “Davidson.” He put special emphasis on the Davidson fighting spirit. He called the audience's attention to the part the founders of Davidson took in the Revolutionary War, and the action of the Davidson student body in the Civil War. Dr. Richards then very briefly told of Davidson’s part in the World War. He remarked on the Wildcat fighting spirit in athletic contests, and paid a great tribute to “the little bronze-headed man, who could himself hold three much larger men” Tom Lingle.

To Prof. C.K. Brown was given the task of telling the part Davidson men played in the World War. He read the names of 19 men who gave the supreme sacrifice. But instead of speaking so much of the war record of Davidson, Mr. Brown said that he would rather consider the part Davidson took and is taking in peace. He preferred that “the Muse talk to Minerva, rather than Mars.”

Professor A.K. W.L., Tom Lingle, Professor of French, read the names of the Davidson men who had died during the past year. This brought a peculiar note of sadness to the student body, because besides containing the names of such illustrious men as Woodrow Wilson, C. Alphonso Smith, and others, the list contained the names of “Pinky” Simmons, member of the class of ’23, and Jack McNair, whose recent death brought grief to the whole student body.

The exercises closed with the singing of “America.”

RUMORS OF DOCTOR HOOD LEAVING DAVIDSON FALSE

The report has been circulating on the campus for the past week that Dr. Fraser Hood, professor of Psychology, has resigned. These reports have been denied by Dr. Hood, who stated that he has not resigned, and at present has no intention of doing so. One rumor said that Dr. Hood was to take a trip to Europe and then take charge of the Psychology department at Carolina. Another was that he was to leave in February to spend a year of study in Europe, returning to Davidson later. Dr. Hood denied these rumors, stating that he has no intention of leaving Davidson this session. Dr. Hood stated that he hopes to spend a while studying psychology in Europe, though at this time he is not prepared to state when he will go, or how long he will be gone. At the proper time, he will give notice through the columns of the Davidsonian.

A handsome four-manual Skinner organ has been installed at great expense in the Whitley auditorium at Elon College. The opening concert was given recently by Mr. Louis Potter, widely known as organist to the presidents, having played frequently at the White House.—Maroon and Gold.

Ride in Buicks and Hudsons
Attractive Rates for Long or Short Trips
BEN BEAL
PHONE 16J DAY OR NIGHT

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Victrolas! Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.