THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

Fifteen Men Initiated By Polity Club Friday
Ten Juniors and Five Sophomores Selected Under New Membership Plan

Fifteen new members were initiated at the meeting of the International Relations Club last Friday night. These men were chosen
from 29 who submitted papers on subjects of international interest. The 15 best papers were chosen, regardless of the authors,
the judges not knowing who the authors were. This new plan of electing members was adopted this year, and does
away with the old system of election by popular vote, thus making sure that only men who are interested in
international affairs are chosen.

The papers submitted were all on subjects which are before the public today, and on which the future prosperity of
the world depends. Some of the subjects were: The Labor Government in Great Britain, The League of Nations, The Little
Entente, and several on Lenin and his policies. Dr. J. M. McConnell spoke on the World Court, outlining its organization
and activities.

At the next meeting of the club, the officers for next year will be chosen and the matter of the
Davidson Club becoming a member of the Southern Association on International Relations will be acted upon. This is merely a
matter of form, as the club was represented at the organization of the association, held at Furman University in Greenville,
S.C.

The men elected to membership last Friday night were as follows:
Juniors—John D. Laws, T. A. Guiton, T. S. McSwain, G. D. Rogers, P. M. Patterson, C. S. Furches, J. H.
Holshouser, R. T. Kimsey, M. W. Trawick, J. R. Gudger.
Sophomores—A. H. Hollingsworth, R. B. Parker, A. B. Williford, E. P. O'Connor.

DAVIDSONIAN DELEGATES
(Continued from page 1)

The convention of the N. C. C. P. A. will end Saturday with a business session. At this meeting, the
annual election of officers will take place. Besides Liston Elkins, Davidson has among the retiring officers R. R. Jones, the
anthology editor.

At the conference of the association at Trinity last fall, Davidson had a large delegation made up of Liston Elkins,
editor-in-chief of the Davidsonian; C. M. S. McIlwaine, managing editor; R. L. Price, business manager; W. F. Galloway, editor-in-chief of
the Davidson College Magazine; and A. M. Hurd of the same periodical.

MEET WITH NAVY TEAM ATTRACTION OF NEXT YEAR
(Continued from page 1)

Captain Weems is optimistic over his chances of building up a formidable squad next season, with Vance, Paterson, “Phil” Cox,
W. D. Cox, and probably Lindamood as a nucleus. Captain Weems will start work shortly after next year’s football season
on his task of preparing a winning outfit.

Miss Pauline Seabrook and Mr. Gibbs Richards were the visitors of Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards last weekend.

CAMPUS CALENDAR
Thursday, May 1—
7:30 P.M.—Eu and Phi Literary Societies.
Friday, May 2—
10:00 P.M.—Reporters’ Meeting.
Saturday, May 3—
3:30 P.M.—Baseball Game, Davidson vs. Trinity at Gastonia.
7:30 P.M.—Movies: When Man’s a Man.
Sunday, May 4—
10:00 A.M.—Volunteer Band.
1:15 P.M.—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 P.M.—Ministerial Band.
6:00 P.M.—Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service—Julian Miller, of Charlotte, Speaker.
Tuesday, May 5—
7:30 P.M.—Pan and Metro Literary Societies.

The Reel Stuff

The screen attraction for this week will be “When a Man’s a Man.” Harold Bell Wright has long been considered
one of the most popular authors in the world. His many novels have been read and re-read by countless millions.
When the announcement was made some time since that Principal Pictures Corporation would give the screen the entire series of
Wright’s books, movie fans anxiously awaited the first of the series, and the opportunity to witness the film adaptation of
it.

“When a Man’s a Man” was the story chosen by the producers as the first to be given everlasting life
in celluloid form. This gripping story of the great Arizona ranch country is said by those whose pleasure it has
been to witness private showings, to be one of the big outstanding features of the year. John Bowers, Marguerite de
la Motte, Robert Frazer, and a host of other celebrated screen artists will be seen in the many portrayals of
“When a Man’s a Man.” The production is in feature length, and is said to closely follow the original story.

“When a Man’s a Man” is one of the most popular of all Harold Bell Wright stories. Its circulation is
said to reach over two million copies and a conservative estimate of those who have read the story can be
placed in the neighborhood of the five million mark. The story deals with the determination of a Cleveland “son of
the rich” who goes West to make a man of himself.After having been spurned by the girl he planned to
wed, the situations that surround his entry into the desert and cattle land, how he overcomes pride and pitches in
as a ranch hand, and after he finally succeeds in gaining his goal, lead to make up one of the
most intense and interesting stories that have yet come from the pen of that famous author, Harold Bell Wright. All
upperclassmen whose names begin with M, V, Y, and Z need not bring chairs.

SHEARER PACKED
(Continued from page 1)

He took his trunk with the whole of his belongings and left the mountain home. With him, he carried $25,
a sum gained from the sale of a hog, a calf, and three chickens, the whole of his possessions. A
few days later, he arrived at Berea, Ky., and applied for entrance at Berea College. At first, the chance of
entering here seemed slight, but the dean of the college, a kindly man, took a personal interest in him and
found a place for him in the fourth grade. The story from then on was one of sturdy application to
his work and the consequent rise to his present position.

Graduated at Berea and Louisville Theological Seminary, Franklin returned to his mountain section to work among his own people. He
has been instrumental in the upbuilding of Crossnore School, with which he is now connected, and in which place he
is doing wonderful work with the mountain boys and girls, assisting those who first helped him to a higher outlook
on education, Dr. and Mrs. Sloop. Briefly, he described their school. It is supported mainly through the sale of old
clothes to the mountain people. Friends of the school send up boxes and bales of old clothes and other second-hand
articles, and these in turn are sold to the mountain people, the proceeds going to the upkeep of the school.
Closing with a plea that everyone should see the abilities lying dormant in these some four million mountain people, he
asked that they be given a chance, and from them, there would someday arise another Jackson, Clay, Lincoln, or Farragut,
all who spent the early part of their life in the fastness of the mountains.

DR. AND MRS. LINGLE
(Continued from page 1)

They will conduct a party of young ladies from Salem and Smith Colleges at the same time and sailing on
the same vessels. They will spend most of their time in Italy. Both parties sail from Le Havre, August 19th
on the French steamer La Savoie for New York, arriving August 28th. Miss Dorothy Finlayson, Miss Ethel Black, and Mr.
M. W. McGill motored to Wilmington for the Easter holidays.

PLANS MADE FOR BLUE RIDGE DELEGATION

The Y. M. C. A. Cabinet is completing its plans for the Blue Ridge Conference this year. All the delegates
going from Davidson are sure to attend the session this year. Several of the men who were at Blue Ridge
last summer are planning to return this June. In the intercollegiate contests during past conferences, Davidson has always rated right
at the top. Especially in tennis and baseball, the Wildcats have taken off the honors. Every member of next year’s
cabinet is hoping to attend, and several of this year’s are making plans to be there. About 25 men are
expected to go from Davidson. The discussion of campus problems and student work will be invaluable to any man in
school, especially rising Seniors and Juniors.

“What a whale of a difference just a few cents make!” — all the difference between just an ordinary cigarette
and — FATIMA, the most skillful blend in cigarette history.

HENRY CAVENDISH
1731-1810

English chemist and physicist, of whom Biot said, “He was the richest of the learned and the most learned of
the rich.” His last great achievement was his famous experiment to determine the density of the earth. In this age
of electricity, the General Electric Company has blazed the trail of electrical progress. You will find its monogram on the
giant generators used by lighting companies; and even on the lamps and little motors that mean so much in the
home. It is a symbol of useful service.

He first made water from gases

Henry Cavendish, an eccentric millionaire recluse, who devoted his life to research, was the discoverer of the H and the
O in H2O. In fact, he first told the Royal Society of the existence of hydrogen. He found what water
was by making it himself, and so became one of the first of the synthetic chemists. Cavendish concluded that the
atmosphere contained elements then unknown. His conclusion has been verified by the discovery of argon and other gases. The Research
Laboratories of the General Electric Company have found a use for argon in developing lamps hundreds of times brighter than
the guttering candles which lighted Cavendish’s laboratory.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
