THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........ Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN............... Business Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
F. M. APPLEBY
E. P. O'CONNOR
R. B. PARK
B. Y. PITTS
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
P. F. JONES
W. H. LYNCH
R. H. McILWAINE
G. McMILLAN
J. E. MOORE
M. AUSTIN
W. H. BRANCH
W. T. COVINGTON
K. REGEN
B. THOMPSON
D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

THE ANNUAL HI 1925

Quips and Cranks is getting off to an early start this fall despite the handicap which it suffered when the business manager did not return. The loss of time until a new manager was selected seems to have affected the schedule very little.

By the end of this week the majority of student photographs will have been completed. The work of organizing material is already well under way. The results so far have shown the wisdom of the Senior Class in electing Lake and Milhous to the positions of editor and business manager.

ON TO ASHEVILLE

Saturday the Red and Black machine meets one of its bitterest foes in the first real test of the 1924 football season. The Presbyterian College of South Carolina is an opponent of the highest calibre. Their gridiron teams fight hard and clean from the opening kick-off to the final blast of the referee’s whistle.

The Student Body has petitioned the faculty to allow a special train to be run to Asheville. Every Davidson man knows from past experience that every P. C. game is a real battle. Never has the margin of difference between the teams been over seven points. The team needs and has the support of every man. Whether the petition is granted or not, Coach Monk’s fighting Wildcats go to Asheville knowing that every son of Davidson is behind them, and with that spirit to spur them on, nothing is impossible.

THE COURT OF CONTROL

By its quick and decisive action toward the Freshmen who violated the Freshman regulations during the past week, the Court of Control showed that it means to enforce strictly all of the rules.

When hazing was abolished nearly two years ago, the Court of Control was substituted for the “board of control” which had been in force since the early days of the college. This court took in hand all Freshmen who took the wrong view of college life, and who did not live up to the ideals of Davidson men. They also imposed certain restrictions on the first-year men and inflicted penalties for their violation.

Sometimes in the past it has seemed to some of the students that the court was unwilling to inflict any penalty except in extreme cases. This hurt the influence of the court among the students, who felt that the revival of hazing would be a much better solution of the problem than to have a court which was too lenient.

Fortunately, an outbreak against the new system did not come, and the abolishment of hazing seems to be permanent. The new court has it in its power to tear down or build up the system. By its prompt action, it has established itself on a surer footing and has gained the respect of the entire Student Body.

HOMECOMING DAY

Two years ago the custom of Homecoming Day was instituted at Davidson. Homecoming Day was a day on which alumni of Davidson were to gather from far and near to revisit their Alma Mater, to see once more the scenes on the campus, and the familiar halls in which they spent some of the happiest years of their life. It was a day for the reviving of old memories.

To many, that first Homecoming Day was a time of sadness. They came back to live over again their college days but the place was not the same. It lacked the final touch of old Chambers. New dormitories had been erected, it is true, but Chambers with all its wealth of tradition had gone never to return. Never to return as it was in years gone by, because new Chambers will not be used as a dormitory.

Then the alumni drifted out to the field to see the Wildcats battle V. P. I, a team which held the Praying Colonels from Centre to a 10-6 score the week before. For nine years the Wildcats had never been beaten on the home lot. Way back in 1902 Furman won a 6-0 decision at Davidson and then in 1913 South Carolina won a 10-0 battle, the last time the Wildcats had been scored on at home. That game will never be forgotten by any who saw it. The spirit which prompted one of the players before the game to say, “The word impossible is not in the Wildcat vocabulary,” was too much for the Virginians and they had to be content with a 7-7 tie.

Chambers was no more, but the fighting Wildcat spirit was still alive and the first Homecoming Day battle will always be remembered as the greatest exhibition of sheer spirit ever seen on a Davidson gridiron.

Last year no major game was played at home, but the Wildcats won a 7-0 victory over Citadel, at the annual celebration.

This year Homecoming Day takes on a bigger meaning. For the first time in over twenty-five years of rivalry on the gridiron, Davidson meets a Carolina team on her home grounds. On November 15th, Carolina and Davidson will lock horns in the Homecoming Day contest. It will be the twenty-third battle between the two teams. Of the twenty-two games played, the University has won fifteen, Davidson has won three and four have ended in scoreless ties. Carolina has an overwhelming lead in games won but only three times during the twenty-two years has the margin of difference been over two touchdowns.

But in addition to the Carolina game, Homecoming Day presents a special appeal to every alumnus. In the place of old Chambers, a new building is rising. One wing is on the way toward completion. The spirit which fought V. P. I. to a standstill will still be in evidence against Carolina and in place of the ashes of Chambers will be the beginnings of one of the finest college administrative buildings in the South.

Open Forum Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

DAVIDSON SPIRIT

The stock of the old Wildcat spirit is rising fast. Seldom have Davidson rooters shown a finer spirit than during the Elon fray last Saturday. But the test of whether the spirit is lasting or not is yet to come. It’s easy to yell for the old team when it is winning, but when it is losing and playing an uphill game is when the true test comes. It is said of the Wildcat that it fights best when it is on its back because then it has four claws to fight with instead of two.

There are statements thrown at Davidson teams which would discourage any team without the stuff to hold up under it. It is said that Davidson’s team is light. It is said that Davidson can never put out great teams because she refuses to keep pace with other schools who resort to commercialism rather than school spirit to draw athletes to their institutions. But what about the team that two years ago held the wonder V. P. I. team to a tie, 7-7? What about the team which the year before held Carolina scoreless in their own back yard? What about the 1917 team which Spalding’s rule-book has called the “featherweight champion of the world?”

Let us make Homecoming Day, November 15, a milestone in Davidson history. It will be a day when Davidson will be the Mecca of every Davidson man with the spirit and ideals of Davidson in his heart; and when we who are now in her halls, will welcome every one of her sons back home again with open arms.

THE FOUNDATION OF DAVIDSON’S HONOR SYSTEM

Honor is the one essential of every Davidson man. Without honor a man cannot be a true son of Davidson. The Davidson code is embodied in the honor system asexpressed in the constitution of the Student Body. Article IV of the constitution comprises the honor system. Every man in the student body is honor-bound to refrain from cheating, stealing, and perjury. Cheating includes not only cheating on examinations but also on review, or any other pledged work. The last section of the article, however, is the foundation on which the whole code of honor stands. It reads as follows: Every student shall be honor-bound to report all violations of the honor system which come under his observation. Failure to do so shall be regarded as a violation of the honor system. By the amendment of the constitution in the spring, this last section was added, thus putting down in black and white the whole core of the system. Unless this last section is carried out, the spirit of the first section remains unfulfilled. To some, the will of the Student Body may seem too severe in regard to the failure to report any violations which may come under his observation. If the matter is viewed from an impartial angle, however, it will be seen that the rule is both necessary and just. It is hard for us to lose faith in any of our fellowmen. That is what happens when we see a man cheating. But what if we allow that man who has dragged the honor of Davidson in the dust to remain among us, classed by all as a representative of Davidson? If we fail to report him, we are hurting him, ourselves, and the school. We are hurting him, primarily, by allowing him to continue in his habits of dishonor. It may perhaps be the first time he has ever cheated, but if it is allowed to become a habit it will injure him for life. In practically every activity it is true that it is not what we get caught doing that hurts us so much as what we do without getting caught. By not reporting a man, we may do him an irreparable injury. We are hurting ourselves by not reporting him because of the weakening of our moral stamina. There is no question that it takes stamina to report a fellow student, but a man who does not have the moral strength to do a hard thing is not fit for the responsibilities of manhood. Failure to report a man is weakness just as surely as cheating. Both exhibit the failing of being unable to stand the gaff. Lastly, it is unfair to the school to allow a cheat, thief, or liar to remain a member of the student body. No argument on this point is necessary. We have made the honor system, and we would hate to live without it. The thought of a school without an honor system is intolerable to all of us. If we wish to keep our system on the high plane which it has always occupied, we must live up to the Student Body constitution.

BOOK REVIEW (Davidson College Catalog—Presbyterian Standard Publishing Co. Given away gratis). For a high school graduate just stepping out on the terra firma with a diploma and a breastful of medals on his person, the Davidson College catalog will prove a password to the higher realms of thought and collegiate action. Between its dusky covers, there are exactly 168 pages of logic, philosophy, and good practical advice whose worth has been proved by nigh on to a hundred years of continuous running, during which time not a single article has been returned on account of dissatisfaction. A historical sketch of this venerable institution opens the story with a zip and rush that fairly takes one off his pedal organs. This tells of the founding of the institution by the sturdy Scotch-Irish who were driven from their native heather and flax fields on account of so many tag days and the high price of shamrocks. Next comes the list of high moguls whose degrees look for all the world like a battery of high-tension centigrade thermometers. The members, ex officio and otherwise, of the various committees hold a strategic position on this flank of the book. The general admission and reserved seats of the entrance to the college are contained in the next few pages which often prove the Waterloo of the invading hosts of new youths who lose their rustic fragrance on the desert air of the campus. All one has to do is to peruse these few pages carefully and he can find out exactly how to gain access to this fountain of knowledge. All he needs then is a few paltry dollars, a burning desire for higher education, and a hearty dislike for muddy walks. With these few requisites, he can pass through Davidson like a sliver of okra down the alimentary canal. The courses of study are put down just as painlessly as possible and camouflaged under a barrage of technical, literary, and nondescript terms that bewilder the newcomer until he thinks that a diploma will be as hard to get as a bootlegger’s license. One can find quite a nice array of choice subjects from which to pick his tortuous way through the mill of education. History, bugology, campus course, German, Geology, and all such sciences have their representatives in these pages. If a man does not like one subject, he can take another, only the college taxes him $2.50 for each change from better to worse or vice versa. Absence regulations and sundry hardships of like nature fill up an exalted position in one of the most prominent parts of the book and the penalties are appended thereunto. Perhaps the most fluid and literary writing appears in the fine description of the campus and its buildings. This was evidently written by a landscape gardener, a lawyer, and a veteran politician working in conjunction with each other. From the magnificent description, one can gain a view of the surroundings that the eye cannot hope to equal. In verbosity and fluency, this piece of exposition is the hippo’s bootees, vulgarly speaking. One of the most interesting phases of this great little book is the estimate of expenses that is so nicely described and handled. Everything is figured out to a fine point and one can tell to a mill what he will spend. However, for the convenience of new boys, it might be said that it’s best to add five hundred dollars for incidentals and such.

MONTGOMERY WARD (Montgomery Ward and Company, New York—Price, one postage stamp). A questionnaire recently sent out to representative flappers, college students, blacksmiths, bootleggers, and other citizens, revealed the fact that among the ten books chosen by them which they would use for a stay on a desert island, the Montgomery Ward catalog headed the list. This shows the high esteem in which this fine book is held by the public. It fills an all-round need in every household, for all, from the baby to grandpa, can enjoy its pages with a maximum of ease and rapidity. It contains something of interest to every prospective bride as well as to the silo builder and the boy who wants a new marble. This year’s catalog is unusually interesting to young and old alike. Skipping over the front section of the book, which is no-man’s land, with its pink illustrations showing up well, we pass on to the candy section which will doubtless attract the eyes of all children. Running on through the array of articles—overshoes, gumdrops, harrows, and non-skid hosiery—we come to the book department where one may revel in the cuts of volumes of Pilgrim’s Progress and Guides to Easy Manners. On page 796, number 1239X, there is a handsome demountable talking machine with cut glass trimmings which is as cheap as one can make it himself. After glancing through the book, one may readily see that it is a work of art. The green index pages in the middle offer a striking contrast to the other pages. It is handsomely bound in nice paper binding with a fashionable cover and back.

C. F. S.