THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 24, 1924

Are YOU doing everything possible to make YOUR college BIGGER and BETTER?

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES ALHAMBRA THEATRE The Merriest Place in Charlotte

“Have you ever eaten any of the hash they serve at the Trough?”
“No, but I swallowed some plaster of Paris once.”

“Oh will you miss me?” warbled Speedy Carr, serenading beneath her window.
“Not if I can help it,” muttered Dad as he took a windup with the water pitcher.

The other night we attended a wooden wedding anniversary. The menu consisted of plank steak, potato chips, club sandwiches, and
cabinet pudding. Wooden that floor you?

Our newest book: “Twenty Thousand LEGS Under the Sea—at Atlantic City.”

Extract from a Freshman’s letter home:
“I've been eating at the Trough lately. The other day we got tired of eating food that was a cross
between fish and delirium tremens, and asked for a menu, so we'd sort of know what to expect, like a
forecast of bad weather.

“So the next day we had a menu for supper. First, there was a jellied bouillon, which looked all right
in print, but tasted like something that had defeated the cat, but had been killed in the struggle. Hopkins said
he liked his soup hot enough to sterilize his mustache. But jellied bouillon was soup that had cooled off so
long ago that all the tadpoles that were in it had become frogs and jumped out.

“Next was potatoes gastronome, which sounds French but very poor eating. Tom Staley ate his potatoes gastronome and worked up
a broken front tooth to education.

“Cucumbers frapped were next, and they tasted like a blister on a thumb, so I canceled my contract and ate
some Eau du Parchesi—Eau du Parchesi being French for ‘I'll bite—what is it?’

“Then we had three kinds of Russian Siamese and mayonnaise dressing, with no salad, and some sort of sea food
that had been dwarfed by exposure. There wasn't enough on the plate to annoy anybody's lip. But George Dupuy said
the French were certainly good-hearted. If they couldn't catch a fish they would bring you in the bait. Only an
anteater could have speared the midget portions they served.

The Raleigh Cafe Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone
fellows 221 West Trade St.

One boy asked Alf Robinson, ‘How did you find your steak?’
Alf said, ‘I moved a pea to one side and there it was.’

We soon came to the conclusion that a French dinner a la menu was something like a bank robbery—all you
got was a clue. So we cut out that business and went back to food.

“Well, give Si and Jake my regards, and don't kill the old sow before I get home.”

Your loving son, Sam.

First Flea—“What makes you so thin?”
Second Ditto—“All run down; been on a contortionist for three weeks.”

Nappy Davis’ hair is curly, While Red Laird’s glows like flame; Kid Lyerly has no hair at all— But he
gets there just the same.

Fresh Lyles—“What was the idea in trying to kiss me when the lights went out?”
“Dapper Dan” Keels—“Force of habit.”

Bill—“There goes Mabel.”
Will—“I think a lot of her.”
Bill—“I know—a lot you shouldn't.”

Mother—“Are you entertaining a young man today?”
Daughter—“No, mother, I just met him today.”

“Where are you going in such a hurry?”
“Nowhere.”
“Then what's your hurry?”
“I gotta get there.”

Some girls aren't really bad, they're just broad-minded.

“I’ve a compliment for you.”
“Well, what is it?”
“Somebody told me you had acute indiges-”tion.”

Dick Littlejohn—"I was over to see my girl last night, when somebody threw a brick through the window and hit
the poor girl in the ribs.”

F. McSwain—"Did it hurt her?”

Dick—"No, but it broke three of my fingers.”

At the close of the first week of the Ugly Man’s Contest, we take pleasure in announcing that “Chick” McCrary
is leading the field with 97 votes. Irving Johnson and Nappy Davis are tied for second place with 73 votes
each, and Dick McMillan is a close third with 67. Contest closes May 8th. Pick out your man and vote
for him. Remember the prize—hand embroidered pick-axe. Second prize is an ising-glass bathing suit.

Known at Blue Ridge, girls from Southern Colleges serve as waitresses in the beautiful dining halls. The dining halls are
also enlivened by the pep that prevails within the halls. College delegations vie with each other in college yells and
songs, and the waitresses will also be given yells by their respective tables. There will be intercollegiate matches in swimming,
tennis, baseball, basketball, and wrestling. Hikes and other forms of outdoor exercise will also be enjoyed by the delegates. Davidson
hopes to have strong teams in these sports at the conference and will be a strong contender for honors along
athletic lines.

Another feature of the conference is the Stunt Night event, when each of the college delegations stage an original stunt.
University of North Carolina, Georgia Tech, Mississippi A. & M., Washington and Lee, and Davidson are among the schools which
have the largest delegations at Blue Ridge. Davidson's delegation this year is unlimited. Those who have attended conferences at Blue
Ridge report that the inspiration received at these conferences is hard to get elsewhere. The fact that the conferences are
smaller than such as the recent Indianapolis Conference affords a spirit which cannot be found in larger conferences. All students
interested in attending the conference may obtain further particulars from Mr. Williams, at the “Y” office, or from members of
the “Y” Cabinet.

LIBRARY NEWS

During the past few weeks, six valuable books on widely different subjects have been purchased and placed in the Library.
Included in the list is The Life of Woodrow Wilson, by Josephus Daniels, the former Secretary of the Navy. The
author says of his book, “I seek to show what his life meant to his country and the world and
how he always played for the verdict of history.” The other books are Richmond, Its People and Its Story, by
Mary Newton Stanard, a book containing 83 illustrations; The Bible, Its Origin, Its Significance and Its Abiding Worth, by Arthur
S. Peake, professor at Bible in the University of Manchester. The Methodist Review, criticizing it, says: “It is a fair
and exhaustive treatment of all issues involved. The preacher has here just the kind of material which will enable him
to help people who have difficult questions which must be answered for the strengthening of faith.” This is the sixth
edition of the book. Also, The Highway, by Caroline Atwater Mason; The New Capitalism, by S. A. Baldus, and The
Cause and Character of the American Revolution, by H. F. Edgerton.

“Y” DEPUTATIONS VISIT NEARBY CHURCHES

Two deputations were sent out Sunday by the Y. M. C. A., one to the Methodist Church at Cornelius, the
other to Sharon Church, near Charlotte. A. H. Hollingsworth conducted the morning service at Cornelius and Joe Garrison the night
service. Several hundred attended each service. Warren Cox was in charge of a deputation to Sharon Church, located near Charlotte.
He was accompanied by the Band Quartet. His subject was a comparison of the Christian College and the State College.
This service was held especially in the interest of Davidson and in connection with a community chautauqua. Doctors Martin and
Shewmake and Professor Fleagle attended this service. Sunday before last, a deputation consisting of Harry Price and Perrin Hudgins conducted
the Y. W. C. A. service at Queens. They also were accompanied by the Ministerial Band Quartet, several members of
which spoke. This was at the same time that the Queens girls were here for the Davidson meeting.

WRIGLEY'S

After Every Meal

It's the longest-lasting confection you can buy—and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser for the mouth and teeth.
Wrigley’s means benefit as well as pleasure. Sealed in its Purity Package.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
