THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

OH YOU MONK =) 4} EAT UP ELON

Promising Material Out for Rat Football Team

Many Former Prep and High School Stars Answer Rawson’s Call

In response to Coach Rawson's call, some 75 candidates have come out for Davidson's Freshman eleven. Regular practice opened Thursday,
the 11th, and for the remainder of the week consisted of the usual fundamental groundwork. The Fresh are being put
through the mill, and a well-toughened squad will be the result.

Dope on a group of new men is hard to dish out. However, the outlook right at the opening of
practice looks a good deal brighter than it did last year. More men are out, these men are heavier than
the usual run, and withal seem a bit more experienced. When the squad is cut to 30 or 40 men,
Coach Rawson will have in these the best of material from which to select his Wild Kitten eleven.

The ends and the backfield have the greatest amount of material. Twenty-five men are out for wing positions. As many
more are out for the backfield. This does not leave many for the line, and it is there that a
shortage of material may occur. As yet, not much can be said as to the individual players. Several all-state prep
and high school men have reported for practice. These and others have come up to Davidson with a big reputation.
What they are really worth will be left for time to tell.

The Freshman schedule has not been completed. Games with the best first-year teams in the Carolinas are being contracted for
by the Athletic Association. Possibly one or two high elevens will also get bouts with the D.C. Fresh.

FOOTBALL MANAGER OUT ON ACCOUNT OF SICKNESS

So far this year, the Wildcat eleven has been without a manager, owing to the sickness of Manager A. W.
McAlister, Jr. Manager McAlister was down with the team for early practice. Most of his time then was spent in
making out a schedule for the Freshman team. While home for the last weekend before the opening of college, an
abscess developed in a tooth. During the manager’s absence, C. M. S. McIlwaine has been carrying on the publicity work
in connection with the coming games.

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company “U-DRIVE’MS” The Old Stand

CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES Appreciative Service W. G. SHIELDS

The Kick-Off By W. E. Milton

Since September 2, the Wildcats have been going hard, eating dust (more truth than poetry), until the first of this
week, when mud seems to be their main diet. And there hasn't been any let-up since the first day. They
are working strenuously, and we are wondering if the student body is working up that great spirit, as they ought
to, while the boys are hardening their muscles.

Too bad Jim Potts cannot be with the squad. Two hundred pounds in the line would have been a great
help. It is hoped that Sam Summers will be ready for the Elon game, and if not for that one,
to be in shape for the P.C. fracas in Asheville. Sam has hard luck. Last year he suffered a sprained
ankle and this year a ligament in his side has pulled loose.

No, Coach Monk isn’t having secret practice, but he says the presence of students near the boys practicing will detract
their attention. Then, again, if all the boys went across the field every afternoon, it would soon get in bad
condition. So “Coach” has instructed the assistant managers to keep the students on the west side of the track.

It looks mighty good to see the boys out there in their football togs, and it’s going to be a
great deal better Saturday when “O, Davidson” is struck up and the Wildcats trot out to meet Elon. Are you
going to be there? Davidson has 618 students, and outside of those, in uniform that afternoon, everyone ought to be
out. Do your part; the football team will do theirs.

Harry Vance trained this summer by doing some wrestling at Camp McClellan, Ala. It was “some” wrestling, too, for he
came away with the heavyweight wrestling championship of the camp. At the same time, S. W. Moore showed a little
prowess by being runner-up in the welterweight boxing contest. A boxer of Clemson defeated him in the finals.

Eleven tennis courts this year! It won't be hard to have them all used either, for in a student body
of over 600 there are many lovers of the net art. Last year there were five courts, and now there
will be a little more assurance of a chance to play when you want to try your hand. We have
last year’s tennis team back this year, but they will all graduate. Somebody will have to take their place, so
frequent and hard practice will not be amiss for those who are interested in tennis.

Members of the two upper classes have been particularly interested in Pat Crawford this summer, in his tryout with Charlotte
in the South Atlantic League. Pat went good from his first trial and has been cavorting around the hot corner
and slamming out hits in great style. In the entire league, he stands among the first 15 best hitters, hitting
around .320. He has proven a valuable player for Charlotte.

Wonder if you've been down on Sprunt Field to take a look at the Freshman candidates for the Wildkitten varsity.
Saturday afternoon, 63 were counted. Some of them look real hefty; others show speed and good training, and altogether Coach
Rawson has a mass of material from which to select his first-string men. The Freshmen made a great record last
year, and naturally, it is hoped they will do the same this year. One chap out there stands in the
way and easily blocks two men. If you get a mere glance at him, you readily know that he’s John
Laws’ brother.

How does this look: 1921, Davidson 47, Elon 0. 1922, Davidson 24, Elon 0. 1923, Davidson 19, Elon 0.

THE COMPLETE SCHEDULE

The completed schedule for the Davidson football team, with the exception of the place of the Clemson contest, follows:

September 20—Elon at Davidson. September 27—Presbyterian of South Carolina at Asheville. October 4—University of Richmond at Winston-Salem. October 11—Wofford at
Davidson. October 18—Lenoir at Davidson. October 22—Furman at Columbia, South Carolina. October 31—North Carolina State at Davidson. November 8—Clemson (undecided).
November 15—University of North Carolina at Davidson. November 27—Trinity at Durham.

Wildcats Lose Feline Mascot by Death

There is Mourning in the Camp of the Cats and Little Kittens Over the Passing

Dr. C. R. Harding

DAVIDSON, July 4.—There is mourning in the camp—at least by that small fraction of Davidson warriors that are still bivouacked
on the old tent ground, while their fellows have scattered to their homes on a furlough, and this mourning will
spread and take possession of the hearts of hundreds when the news is broadcast—the “Red and Black” mascot, the Davidson
fighting wildcat, passed away last night and joined that great company of his forbears that moulder on mountain side or
in swamp and forest throughout America’s wide domains.

This fine specimen of the untamed feline, which was sent last fall to the Red and Black tribe as their
eponymous progenitor, had shown for several days that he was below par and that he should be transferred from his
imprisoningWire cage into an infirmary for medical treatment, but there was no veterinary at hand to feel the patient's pulse,
take his temperature, or gauge his blood pressure. The animal, though markedly less ferocious in these recent weeks than when
first imprisoned, did not invite his keeper, Charlie Wilson, negro, either to fondle or caress, and no sympathizing bystander felt
called upon to administer pill or purge. The crowning evidence that Mr. Wildcat was losing ground and that his “pep”
had left him came when, refusing to eat butcher's meat, a well-wisher—one wishing the cat well and not the rooster—suggested
that chicken might whet the failing appetite of the caged fighter and help him back to vigorous strength and his
old-time fire. So a rooster was purchased and thrust within the cage where the “lame lion” of the “Davidson Wildcats”
was domiciled. Onlookers thought that it would be another case of Daniel thrown to the lions with the issue reversed
from that of the Biblical story, but, wonderful to relate, and for a very different reason, the issue was practically
the same. What was a “cat” to a rooster, who was perfectly familiar with the domestic type? Had not he
and the other chickens in the backyard time and again fed with the cat from the same bucket of scraps,
drunk from the same milk pail, and watered at the same trough in perfect peace and harmony? Had they not
even picked fleas from the cat's fleecy hide? Why fear a cat, and fear he did not. Fate justified his
confidence. Not even “chicken meat” could tempt the feline, who was now sick and that unto approaching death. Why sick—no
one can say. Possibly mourning over the dull listless days that were his since the shouting and the tumult of
battle had ceased with the closing of the college year; possibly mourning over the defeats of which during the past
year the Wildcats had suffered, and which even a fine Wildcat mascot could not prevent; possibly mourning over his enforced
idleness and inactivity in contrast with the race for life and struggle for the survival of the fittest that had
characterized his youthful days in the wild. Be all this as it may, wildcat and rooster dwelt together in unity
and peace. The wildcat attempted neither to hurt nor to destroy, and the rooster made himself as companionable as possible,
standing close beside his sick fellow prisoner and from time to time marking the flight of time and the tolling
of the bells by lusty crowing to his feathered mates in the enjoyment of liberty, to come and rescue their
imprisoned kinsman. These did not hearken to the call. But meantime the mascot was giving ear to another summons, and
answering faintly to another call. Quietly he drew about him the draperies of his couch and lay down to pleasant
dreams as the cock’s crowing announced the dawn of a new day.

(Editor’s Note—The preceding article appeared in the Charlotte Observer of July 5th. It came from the pen of Dr. C.
R. Harding, professor of Greek literature, who is a frequent contributor to the sporting and news pages of the North
Carolina dailies.)

Six New Tennis Courts Are Under Construction
Will Bring Total to Ten—Old Courts Reconditioned

Owing to the erection of the new Chambers building, many of the tennis courts used last season are now covered
with building material. Only four courts were available for use last week, but this number is now being increased to
ten. The new courts will be below the present courts on the plot of ground which is next to Concord
Street and the one on which the Freshmen of last year practiced football. The courts now in use have been
dragged and the posts have been dug up. New posts with a crank to tighten up the nets will replace
the old. This improvement will lessen the trouble previously experienced by those wishing to keep the nets at a proper
height. The new courts have also been dragged and will be covered with a layer of sand and put in
tip-top condition. This will in some measure alleviate the present congestion on the tennis courts. The tennis team of last
season is back in full force and ready to start to work. With Harry Price, champion of North Carolina during
the previous season; T. F. Staley, Jim Trotter, and Mac Beall to play for Davidson this year, the prospects for
an excellent team are good. A small number of matches between the Freshman teams of Davidson and other colleges will
probably take place. It is hoped that some of the members of the 'Yearlings who have been reported as good
players will turn out to be such.

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE
C. M. S. McIlwaine
Davidsonian Office
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
