THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

’12—Rev. C. G. Lynch, who has been pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Wilmore, Ky., has recently moved to Easley, S.C.

’11—Rev. W. A. Benfield, of Greenville, has recently accepted a call to Sinks Grove, W. Va. He will be installed in his new pastorate on November 30, 1924.

’17—Rev. J. T. Gillespie was installed as pastor of the Third Church of Louisville, Ky., on November 2nd. Mr. Gillespie begins his pastorate in this church under the most auspicious circumstances as the church is located in a rapidly growing section of the town. Plans for a new church building have been prepared and accepted by the congregation. The work will begin early in 1925.

’75—The death of J. H. Morrison, D.D., occurred on November 5, at Holly Grove, Ark. Dr. Morrison was on his way to organize a church and died in one of the depots. He was born in Buncombe County, N. C. In a summary of his work published three years ago, the following data is recorded: “Under his ministry more than 3,700 persons confessed Christ, twenty-seven entered the ministry through his influence, eleven church buildings were erected, thirteen churches were organized.” Rarely has a church had a more earnest, devoted, and faithful minister. The funeral services were held at Holly Grove on November 6. He was buried in Nashville.

’15—J. N. Van Devanter, Jr., is expecting to be in Tucson, Ariz., for a while this fall before he returns to Albuquerque, New Mexico.

’14—W. T. Bitzer is in Florida with headquarters in Jacksonville. He is serving on a committee of Education and Ministerial Relief.

W. Z. Bradford, ’24, and J. W. Clark, ex-’18, are studying medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. R. E. Buckner, ex-’27, and W. A. McClain, Jr., ’24, are law students at the University of Virginia.

Ex-’23—H. D. Covington is in the real estate business at Laurinburg, N. C.

D. S. Boulware, ’21; D. S. Phlegar, ’24; and L. L. Wilkinson, ’22, are studying medicine at the University of Virginia.

’24—D. B. Walthal is working for an M.A. at the University of Virginia. His address is care of Mrs. Stringfellow, Gordon Ave., University, Va.

Ex-’16—H. H. Wilcox is in the insurance business at Elberton, Ga.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, ’92, has just given a series of lectures at the Steele Creek Church on the History and Doctrines of the Presbyterian Church. Rev. J. W. Walker, ’07, is pastor of this, the largest country Presbyterian Church in the South. There are always students at Davidson from this congregation, and among the members of this church are men who have attended Davidson at one time. The inscription on the pulpit Bible states that this Bible was presented to Steele Creek Church in October, 1888, by the students of Davidson College.

’12—Rev. H. R. Boswell was installed as pastor of Metter Church, Statesboro, Ga., on October 31st. Mr. Boswell is a very able preacher and pastor, and it is believed that the church will succeed under his leadership.

Weddings

Mr. Flynn V. Long will be married to Miss Martha Venable Fitzgerald on Saturday, December 6, at the Second Presbyterian Church, Richmond, Va.

INFIRMARY NEWS

P. B. Bost, J. A. Zimmerman, R. A. Miller, Frank Belk, and Hamilton Boulware have been confined in the Infirmary during the past week. Thomas Lafferty, of the Freshman class, is very much improved in the eye, ear, nose, and throat hospital in Charlotte. Lafferty had a very serious accident to his eye. It was thought for a while that he would lose sight in that eye, but it seems now that medical skill is going to be able to save it.

CIGARS

NONE TOO SMALL

We Want Your Account

DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
R. A. DUNN, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

NONE TOO LARGE

Regardless of Its Size

I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Who Knows?

That, in the 1909 season of football, Davidson's schedule contained the following strong opponents: University of Virginia, Georgia, Washington and Lee, Navy, and V. M. I.

That, at the Davidson-Carolina game in 1909, there were only 15 visiting young ladies on the Hill.

That, during the same year...Class football was the rage and rivalry between the classes ran high, a cup being given to the championship team. That, in 1910, with the addition of 150 “Standard Songs,” a large choir with piano and cornet accompanists, the exercises at chapel were vastly improved. That, in 1910, the college opened with 329 students, the Senior class having 59, from which came the largest graduating class in the history of the college at that date. There were among the students a Scotsman, an Englishman, two married men, a man from Brazil, Japan, and Persia, and last but not least, one lone co-ed. That Davidson evidently used to be a “wild and woolly” place back in 1888, as a clipping from the college magazine of that year reads: “Ladies should no longer fear wild beasts and robbers when coming out of church at night, for 15 or 20 of our most valiant boys have volunteered their services to see that no one is hurt. The company forms immediately after the benediction.” That, during the same year, Dr. Shearer, former president of Davidson, gave a reception for the Freshmen, and each Freshman was required to bring a girl. That, in 1898, Commodore Dewey's report of his overwhelming victory at Manila Bay was received here with the greatest enthusiasm; bonfires, “hollers” and yells were the order of the night. The Davidson Reserves, acting as escort, led the student body all over town, visiting the houses of the professors, all of whom responded to the call with warlike and enthusiastic speeches.

CLASSES IN NEW CHAMBERS
(Continued from page 1)

...been filled in and one can get to the gym in safety. The radiators for the steam heat are already on the grounds and when these are put up it will enable the workmen to plaster during the cold days without danger of the plaster freezing. Plans are being made to conduct classes in the new classrooms after examinations. Almost all of the present classes except laboratory work will be conducted in the new building. This will ensure greater efficiency in teaching than before, and will be easier on the students.

Civic Club Bazaar, Tuesday Afternoon
December 2, Three to Six P. M.

There will be the usual sale of fancy work, home-made candy and cakes. This will be a good place to buy Christmas gifts. Come early. Prices will be reasonable.
Mrs. L. R. Brady, President.

The fourth annual “Dad’s Day,” held by Mississippi A. and M. was a great success, bringing thousands of visitors to the Aggies campus, who watched the Aggies cop the state football title by defeating Mississippi College.

The University of Kansas has recently opened a dancing class for beginners and those who wish to learn the fundamentals of good dancing. The class is open to the entire university, half of the time being devoted to the teaching of dancing and half to practicing. The Dean of the university said, “The university recognizes the fact that dancing is the foremost form of social entertainment and wishes to give students the opportunity to enjoy dancing to the fullest extent.” A small sum is charged for each lesson.

LOST

One package of laundry, No. A-184, was removed from the laundry by mistake some time last week. Owner will appreciate return of same to C. F. Smith, 5 South.

Will the student (or otherwise) who removed a black V-necked O'Shea sweater from the counter in the Armory on Tuesday of last week please return same promptly to J. P. Gladney, 27 Ga.?

WARREN’S of Philadelphia
TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

Special Top Coats $25.00
Made To Order Suits $35.00
SHOWING 103 WEST
Monday, December 4th
JACK CUNNINGHAM, Rep.
Formerly of Guilford’s

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department McAlister Carson, Manager Charlotte, N. C. Phone 3940

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE

Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money