4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 14, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Associate Editor
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor

M. McILWAINE
A. LAKE

Business Staff
Subscription Manager
Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager
Advertising Manager
Assistant Manager
Bookkeeper

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
MORROW, J. ABEL, D.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITORIAL

“Prince of Wales Breaks Collar Bone In a Fall,” reads a headline of last week. Prince of Wails, did you
say?

German marks have depreciated little more at Davidson than have numerous other marks. Latin marks are in the lead by
a safe margin, reports indicate.

Half-heartedness has caused the destruction of thousands; it is the curse of tens of thousands; it is a threat to
millions. A great barrier it stands, flung across the highway that leads to better things. Strenuous work, perseverance, and a
definite purpose cannot fail if behind them there is whole-heartedness.

The leading figure in the World Peace Movement has passed away. Maybe Bok may be able to carry on, United
States Congress to the contrary. Will the movement die?

In the Open Forum this week W. I. Galloway senses the need for a radical change in student attitude. He
takes a mighty swing at college life in general and lets the blows fall where they may. They may hit
you! Or, maybe, they are misdirected and unwarranted. You may smart from their force. Behind them there should be one
powerful force, however you might receive the ideas set forth. They should set you thinking about yourself and your relation
to Davidson.

“Pleasure and happiness may be associated; they may be as far detached from each other as east from west,” is
the philosophy expressed by a member of the Senior class. This may have been learned from books—maybe from living!

How many men do you know at Davidson?
How many girls do you know at Queens?

Friendships are the greatest asset a man may have.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

TO THE DAVIDSON STUDENT BODY

What is your idea of a college education? Is it a joke? Is college a playground for a pack of
kids? That is the impression that the Davidson student body gives. If it is typical, then what I shall say
is all the more poignant, necessary, and unpleasant.

As a child grows older he learns to think. One measurement of maturity is the power to think. On that
basis, there are a number of children on the Davidson campus. How many men think out the bigger problems of
college and of national life? Are you going to jog complacently through life with blinds on your eyes, seeing only
your own narrow path, and ignoring the world outside and the things that it is doing? You are a Presbyterian.
You are a Democrat. Why? Because mama and papa, and Uncle Bill were Presbyterians and Democrats. You accept authority like
children. To support a belief on a basis like that is a crime against your fullest development and an indictment
against your college. Like a bunch of cattle, you let anybody put a motion over you any day they get
up and talk loud enough. You get together in chapel and vote for anything that comes along. Use your heads
a little. It really isn’t so hard.

Why do you come to college? Do you know? You say that you have come to get an education. Are
you getting it? The average man on the campus regards studies as incidentals. He takes all the “crips,” he bulls
professors, he borrows outlines, and prides himself on his college education. He kicks if a text costs a dollar or
two. At what paltry price do you value your education? Or is the Davidson student body only a bunch of
cheap skates?

Bull, more bull, and still more bull is the order of the day. Bill drops in and you talk over
the chances of beating State. Jack drops in a moment later and you talk over the same thing again. You
figure out the prospects for next year when there aren't any prospects to figure. What has all that got to
do with an education? When you get out of college that won't get you a block. Forget it a while,
and study a bit. There really is a thing or two to learn yet.

There is a basketball game at night. The next morning the faculty is asked to believe that you did not
have the time to study. A game lasts an hour. Where did the other six or seven go? What you
need is a faculty that will use the iron fist every now and then. They take too much off of
you now. You say you want an education. It’s here waiting for you. But you won't get it by trying
to make fools out of the faculty. You calmly reply a couple of times a term that you are not
prepared and at the end of the year you kick about your grades. Do you expect impressions to be ignored?
And the impression you make is rotten. Do you expect anybody to believe that the Davidson student body is killing
themselves with work? You reply that Davidson is on the ranking list of the American colleges and universities; Davidson has
Phi Beta Kappa. I am not talking about the educational structure, but of the attitude of the college man, an
attitude of indifference to education and to the problems of life that holds little prospect of betterment in the next
generation.

Davidson College is narrow. Ah, yes, you say, we can explain that easy enough. It is narrow because it is
a denominational school. Ministers should be narrow. If they thought, they might lose their religion. Is that the basis of
your religion? Is a religion like that worthwhile? Your attitude in church is irreverent, your actions in chapel are ridiculous.
Is a man's religion sound when he starts feverishly looking for his overcoat during a prayer? Have you ever thought
out the basis of your faith? Have you compared it with the beliefs of other people? If your religion is
so sick that it can’t stand firmly on its feet in the open air, it is a poor sort of
religion. A broad-minded church is what we need, not a collection of blind and prejudiced scholars (though of course there
is little danger of them being scholars).

The Davidson student body has no standards of thought. It is hopelessly unprepared to meet the problems of life. One
must have a background of knowledge before he can accept or reject new ideas and experiences. What have you learned
to enable you to take your place in the modern social structure? What do you know of society's aspirations and
problems? Are you going innocently out into the world with your little diploma and expect the world to stop spinning
and find you a place? What have you learned to enable you to make yourself a place? You have learned
to conjugate luo, and to read Xenophon or Horace (with a “Jack”). You can add and subtract with A’s and
B’s, and you can prove a square has four sides, but do you know that every question has two sides
and that to get along in life you must have something in your head that will be useful to somebody
else? You can name the books of the Bible, but can you defend the doctrines of Christianity?

We have courses in Greek and Latin and Shakespeare and Calculus. Why not a course in Contemporary Thought or in
the relation of Contemporary Literature to Contemporary Life? Why not sociology? Why not Comparative Literature? Just to see if the
French and the Germans didn’t write something more important than some of what is studied in English or American literature.
Why be narrow? We speak of our cultural college. What does the Davidson man read? The “Saturday Evening Post,” and
the “Red Book” and the “Cosmopolitan.” What does he know of art? How many men in the student body can
name a single painter of the twentieth century? How many Davidson men know what “dadaism” is? How many have read
“Madame Bovary” or “The Spoon River Anthology?” How many know the real facts about socialism? What is syndicalism? Who is
Picasso? Who are America’s leading novelists? That is the measure of our culture. That is what we claim we are
getting at Davidson.

We are living in the third decade of the twentieth century. Is contemporary life and its manifestations worthless? Because these
things had not taken place when the faculty got their degrees, does that make them any the less important? Progress
must have its base in the past, but if it stays there all the time it never will be progress.
We've got to “get off that dime” every now and then. Davidson College is blindly conservative. Of course, if you
want it blindly conservative, you probably feel perfectly at home. But do you think progress has stopped just because it
has gotten to where you chose to stand? Do you think the clock has run down and now you can
sleep without any cause for alarm? Do you believe that, or do you?Believe that some things will advance—those that are
incomplete in your eyes, of course—and that those that suit your little fancies and your petty opinions will remain as
they are. Is your mind rigid, unmodifiable? Are you a blockhead? If you are, you are wasting your time at
college. Are you going to grow, to modify old opinions and form new ones? That is life. Are you dead?
If you are, kindly slide into your grave and make room for those who can carry the world along. If
you are going to stand pat, stand aside or progress will shove you aside. In your prudery, and your false
pride, and your consciousness of your own perfection, do you ever think of the other side of the question? Can
you weigh authorities? Do you accept authority blindly? If men in the past had done that, there would never have
been any progress. Did you ever think of it like that? Take the current shibboleth of religion, evolution. From a
purely abstract standpoint, does it contradict the Bible much more than the discoveries of Galileo (if you know what they
were)? Only fools deny now that the earth goes around the sun. Three hundred years ago the wiseacres of the
church declared Galileo a heretic. There are many cases similar. How is the thing going to be regarded three hundred
years from now? Open your eyes and study the thing, and then make a decision. The difference between a wise
man and a fool is that one accepts authority, the other weighs authority first, and accepts only what is true.
Do you let words frighten you? Or do you learn the concepts and meanings behind words? What do words stand
for? Are you afraid of the word “Socialism?" Have you ever tried to find out what it is? Do you
think the socialists want everybody to throw their loose change in a pile, and have it dealt out again? Do
you know that Russia is socialist; that Germany is to all intents and purposes so; that a socialist is president
of France, and premier of Great Britain; that the United States has passed socialist legislation? Do you know the good
points of socialism? It is one of the big things that you will have to face. What are you going
to do about it?

The Davidson student body prates about school spirit; the Davidson tradition; Davidson fight. You are right to talk about tradition.
At least it is something to talk about. What sort of spirit have you got when you raise a howl
every time you are charged two bits to see a game? Do you expect the Athletic Association to run on
goodwill? Go to Charlotte. What do they charge you there? Seventy-five cents or a dollar. How much do you want
for your paltry two dollars and a half? Do you know that other colleges have from five to ten dollars,
and more students in addition? What sort of spirit have you got when you have to struggle to get specials
to games? If you had school spirit you would think a bit about the moral power behind five hundred fellows
standing solid for the team. Is the Davidson student body a bunch of cheapskates? The continual jawing and crabbing about
prices and specials gives that impression. What sort of spirit have you got when you make fun of your opponents
in your gym? Lenoir was a fighting team. They gave all they had to win. What right have you to
laugh at them? Have you forgotten that Georgia Tech used to laugh at us? And do you think that your
cheering is the best in the world? Clemson shows more pep at a track meet than you do at a
big football game. And courtesy? You think when you have given your opponents one cheer you are through. At Carolina,
they give an organized yell when the opponents score, and they cheer for individual stars on the other team.

In a false type of school spirit, you say that Davidson is the best school in the South. Why? Because
you are a Davidson student. How do you know? Have you ever been to Carolina, or to Clemson? They will
say the same thing. You talk of Davidson fight, and expect that to win games, when there is no material
to build up your teams. Do you think Trinity is going to lay down just because you bull about Wildcat
fight? Not so, you will notice. Both teams fight, and the best team wins, which generally isn’t Davidson. The Davidson
student body must realize its position in athletics. It is unpleasant, but it cannot be ignored. We have the coaches.
We have not got the men. Trinity, and Wake Forest, Carolina and State are outstripping us. We can refuse to
believe it. We can talk about next year and the year after, but facts are facts. Davidson, Elon, and Guilford
are the three of a kind now. If we win a big victory it is from Wake Forest or Trinity.
It is not uncommon to lose in basketball and baseball to Elon and Guilford. We laugh at them and yet
they are steadily creeping up on us. The Davidson student body must face facts. You are wasting your time and
your money. You are avoiding or ignoring the issues of the day. You have no foundation of knowledge to try
new ideas. You seldom think, and when you do, your thinking is lop-sided. You prate about school spirit and are
letting it slip away from you every day. The entire situation is discouraging and disgusting. Wake up to facts. You
are living in a world, not a playground. It is 1924, and things are happening every day. Open your eyes.

W. F. GALLAWAY.

CHAFF

Valentines

Who is there so old that he cannot hearken back to his youthful days when a certain little girl in
pigtails with deep blue eyes caused his trusting heart to swell with emotion when she shyly smiled at him? Long
days of anxious torment because the thought would come up that perhaps she loved another, and suicide and violent death
were preferable to the scorn of her eye. Those were the days—perhaps the little girl with the laughing eyes has
grown up, maybe her mind is taken up with those whom she sees more often than you, but—a little heart
of red with frilled lace will awaken memories of bygone days that neither of you want to forget. Then she
will write you again as of yore, because— “... because, the brown eyes lower because, you see, I love you.”

Have a Heart.

St. Valentine's Day along with all our other days when the tired bankers get to rest, was the creation of
the old saint himself. With all due respect to Saints Vitus, Patrick, and Peter, there is no doubt that Val
skinned them all at their own game when it comes to instituting holidays. Now St. Vitus has the shimmy for
his perpetual souvenir, and St. Patrick has his shamrock, so it is entirely befitting that Val should have his heart.
Of course, every man we know of has a heart, but we mean one for a souvenir. Dan Cupid helps
him with the distribution of these tokens but according to statistics he misses his mark as often as he hits.
And to make it worse, his ancient bow and arrow aren't all they used to be. Judging by the hardness
of the masculine heart at present, he should exchange his bow for a Kelly-Springfield weapon which shoots 6 1-2 drs.
of face powder loaded with No. 6 codfish balls.

Have a Heart.

Ye modern versions of ancient Valentine wit—

“As certainly as the herbaceous vegetation encompasses the remains of a deciduous perennial, you are my mellifluous mass of saccharine
goodness.”

Roses are red,
Violets are blue,
Florists’ prices are high
And I can’t send them to you.

If you love me like I love you,
No divorce laws can cut our love in two.
(Note: This last to be sizzled on your saxophone or cackled on your clarinet).

Have a Heart

(With apologies to Unca Walt)

My purse, no different from the rest, has lost all trace of wartime zest; it’s flatter than a burnt pancake
when falling for a hash hound's rake. With flowers I've said it all the way, while getting flatter every day.
I've made her eyes grow big and round with candy costing two per lb. Poor me, I've footed all the
bills for taxicabs and all such thrills. No cheap set did for Mary Anne, she always had some other plan
of sitting in a box, and so, you see why all my funds are low.

Have a Heart

Take Anna, she was never like, the kind who ride. She hiked, but what an awful appetite; she knocked the
feed bill out of sight. Betty believed in motor cars, diamond rings and caviar, but Boy! my dough went out
so free, while Betty's still Miss Jones to me. Some love riches, some love fame who never want to change
their name, but Millie Brown’s the other kind and she’s the Shey who takes my mind. Simple, sweet, all that,
you know, with just a little “I told you so.” Oh Boy! the way she rolls those eyes—it makes each
day a paradise. And when she laughs or when she smiles, it lightens all the weary miles that come to
one with bank book low, no funds in sight and bank book low. Of course, I'd like to send a
box of roses, lilies, phlox, or say a dozen orchids blue, with just a touch of springtime too. ’Sno use,
my banker closes down and leaves me less than a mark or crown. If German marks are sold as hay,
I couldn't feed a mouse one day. Still, Millie’s different, that’s one thing that makes my little glad heart sing.
I think I'll get a Valentine, with little wreaths and hearts entwined and put thereon, in letters blue, “Dear Millie
girl, I love but you.” I'm sure that she'll accept it so, and then she'll never hear or know I
said, “Temptation get thee hence, this token costs but thirteen cents.”

—Have a Heart—

Your lips were made for mine, Sweet Valentine, to kiss with ardent passion all the time. Your eyes, as light
as dawn’s first glow, fanned by gentle breezes, low, are mine, all mine. Each day a thought leaves me for
thee that bears a message for thy heart so free. I send it with a joy divine in hope that
you, sweet pal of mine, will always be.
