THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 20, 1924

“The finest library in the South” is the proud boast of V. P. I. since the final cataloging numbering of
over 80,000 items was finished. In this number is included over 36,000 books—“The Va. Tech.,” V. P. I.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE N. C.

Town News

Literary Societies

Mrs. Deal has as her guests for the weekend, Miss Jane Irvin and her niece, Miss Elizabeth Irvin.
Miss Adele Shelton was at home from Queens for the weekend.
Mrs. Robson had as a guest for the Carolina game, Mrs. Allison, of Winston-Salem, mother of O. J. Allison.

Phi Society

It was the consensus of opinion of all who were present at the last meeting of the Phi Society that
the program was the best of the year. It consisted of two debates, the election of officers, and an oration
as well as a short talk. D. L. Calhoun and W. S. Gordon had an excellent argument on the question,
Resolved, That super-power be controlled by the U. S. Government, while E. E. Lingle and L. E. Calhoun engaged in
an extemporaneous debate, Resolved, That the student store be closed after Christmas. The Pandemics and the Philanthropic Societies do not
have junior societies.

REPORTERS’ CLUB REACHES CAPACITY BY INITIATION

The 11 men whose names appeared in the last issue of The Davidsonian as having been asked to join the
Reporters’ Club, are to be formally initiated on next Saturday night. These men have all been working for one or
more years for this honor and it comes as a fitting reward for the work which they have done. The
Davidsonian is the factor of the school which does the most toward keeping the spirit, of which Davidson boasts so
much, alive. That there should be some mark to distinguish those who have labored to keep this organ of the
school going, is indeed proper, and to those who have made the club it is a symbol of appreciation from
those whose work they have benefited. The men who are to be taken in on next Saturday bring the staff
of the Reporters’ Club up to capacity, and in its hands rests, to a great degree, the material which is
to compose The Davidsonians of this year.

The Davidson students and townspeople were surprised and grieved upon hearing of the sudden death last Saturday of Otha (Tobe)
Johnson, local cleaner and presser. Tobe had been suffering with an attack of grip for three weeks preceding his death.
Coming to his shop Saturday morning he became very ill and, while walking across the room about 8:30 o'clock, dropped
dead of heart failure. Tobe has been serving the college students for the past 24 years and has always been
one of the most industrious and best liked of Davidson's colored residents.

The Book Lovers’ Club met last Friday with Miss Kate Douglas. Several of the faculty and their wives were in
attendance at the funeral of Mr. J. P. Allison, of Concord, who was formerly a member of the Executive Committee
of the Board of Trustees.

The Civic League met to elect officers on last Tuesday. All the former officers were retained.

Mrs. Hood has entertained her sister-in-law, Mrs. Wagner, for several days.
Mrs. Nannie McQueen and Mr. and Mrs. Jack Spruill were weekend guests of Mrs. F. L. Jackson.
Mrs. Lingle’s guest, Mrs. Thompkins, from Roanoke, has returned home.
Mrs. Fred Hengeveld left Thursday to visit at her home. Little Virginia accompanied her mother.
Misses Sara and Martha Hamilton were at home for the weekend.
Miss Lois Barnette visited her parents during the weekend.
Miss Helen Johnston, who has recently undergone an operation, is improving slowly.
Miss Jean Martin was at home for the weekend.
Mrs. Amos Morris was a weekend guest in Mrs. Hengeveld’s home. Bob and Jim Black, and Mr. and Mrs. Jack
Black were at home for the Carolina game.
Mrs. Van Sant is ill in the Sanatorium in Charlotte.

A typical Crawford brogue in black, tan or brown calfskin.
Crawford Shoes FOR MEN
In the Crawford Shoe you will find the best of style, fit, comfort and skilled workmanship. Come in and let
us show you.
$8.50 Main Floor

Eumenean Society

An extemporaneous debate on a question of timely interest to the members of the Eumenean Literary Society took the place
of the regular debate at the last meeting. Floyd Jones and Wallace Purdy argued That the Eumenean hall should be
thoroughly repaired. Paul Patterson and Walter Lynch, on the opposition, failed to prove that such action was both unnecessary and
objectionable. The debate was followed by a general discussion of the question by the members of the society, who finally
decided in favor of the debate. Professor Wachter made a short talk, which was full of humor, and was greatly
enjoyed by all.IN THE SOCIETIES (Continued from page 1)

Last year, the finals were held during Junior week, but they may be at commencement this year. The Forensic Council
has been discussing a new plan for the Fresh-Soph declamations. Heretofore, each society has given a medal for the best
declamation given, but to make the medal more of an honor, the Council suggests that a medal be given by
the four societies to the best Freshman declaimer and one to the best Sophomore, having two medals to be presented
instead of four. This plan has not yet been adopted but will probably go through.

Special mention should be made this year of the work of the Freshmen. They have about 20 new men and
each reports excellent work, good talent, and willingness to enter-in being displayed. All the societies have been using the old
system of programs the past term, and all will use the parliamentary method of debate for the present term, except
the Eu, which considers it too indefinite and will not change. The Metrophilian Society will take its Freshmen into the
regular society in two weeks, while the Eumeneans will wait until taking such action as had been referred to here
his entire life.

Born in Davidson 38 years ago, Tobe lived here his entire life. Previous to entering the pressing business, he started
at the age of eight working for Col. S. E. Schofield as a butler boy and continued with him until
setting up for himself. For 15 years he was secretary of the Christian Aid Society and, during the last eight
years of his life, he acted as superintendent of the Methodist Sunday School. At all times his interest in the
church work had been manifested in service. Davidson students have lost a loyal friend and the village of Davidson a
good citizen by Tobe’s death. He is survived by his wife, son, two sisters, and a brother, all of Davidson.

BASKETBALL GETS EARLY IMPETUS (Continued from page 1)

His teammate, Faucette, is probably the champion long shot of the college with the possible exception of Laird. Keerans and
Goodykoontz, also members of the championship Soph aggregation, have earned their berth on the varsity squad by their consistent and
aggressive work as guards. In addition to this tentative squad, the old reliables, Boggs and Laird, members of the famous
Wildcat football machine, are no less brilliant as basketeers. Sook Boggs, captain of the ‘25 varsity, is considered by many
experts as the premier guard of Tar Heel basketeers. Red Laird, although only a Junior, has won the coveted monogram
both years since he has been in college and each year has covered himself with glory at forward. In the
last season, he was probably the star of the Davidson aggregation.

On these 11 men hinge the hopes of the Wildcat enthusiasts in the realm of basketball. It is not a
ready-made championship machine, but certainly has within it the characteristic fight and tenacity that have always marked Davidson teams as
the “unknown quantity” which is always a source of fear to all other championship aspirants. With Monk Younger at the
coaching helm, a premier Wildcat basketball machine in 1925 is not impossible.

Mrs. Isaac Hardeman, of Charlotte, was also a guest of Mrs. Smith. She drove over on Sunday afternoon with her
daughter, Miss Ellen Hardeman.

Coach Carl V. Prause, present coach at Citadel, has recently signed a five-year contract whereby he will remain in charge
of the athletes who represent “The Fighting Bulldogs.” This is very good news to the student body, as Coach is
very popular with all and great confidence is placed in him to lead his lads to victory—“The Bull Dog,” Citadel.

Ground was broken a few days ago for the erection of the new home of the Sigma Nu Fraternity. It
is said that when this home is completed, it will be the most up-to-date fraternity house in the southeast.—“The Tar-Heel,”
U. of N. C.

Since 1868 THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GREETINGS--- 28ers!

Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes--for ANY occasion, and he'll tell you “GILMER-MOORE’S” in
Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear—they’re all to be found here NOW!

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE SHOES LUGGAGE

Need Money?

WE have a plan whereby college men can realize an income while going to school and at the same time
secure professional training which may be used later in establishing a professionally-owned and profitable business. A University of North Carolina
man qualified for our $100,000 club last year. You, too, can make money as our representative while in college.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

Dyeing Largest 8 E. Trade St. CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Dry Cleaning - Shoe Shine In Connection
Oldest Pressing Best CHARLOTTE
