4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

LISTON D. ELKIN - Editor-in-Chief
REGINALD L. PRICE - Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. M. S. McILWAINE - Managing Editor
W. Z. BRADFORD - Associate Editor
O. J. ALLISON - Alumni Editor

Business Staff
Subscription Manager - W. W. CROMWELL
Assistant Manager - R. B. WHARTON
Typist - G. N. SHAW
Advertising Manager - W. W. CROMWELL

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
WHARTON, D. B., V.-Pres.
PARKER, E. P.
BOWIE, A. Y.
GARRISON, J. M.
GIBBS, I. I.
ROGERS, G.
SMITH, C. F.
STORY, P. J.
WILLIAMS, J. M.
WILSON, D. G.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
THOMPSON, J. B.
MILTON, W. E.
MOORE, J. E.
MONK, C. F.
MORROW, G. M.

EDITORIAL

A CLEAR VERDICT

The meeting of the Trinity and Davidson wrestling teams was the classic of the wrestling season in North Carolina, Trinity claiming the laurels of the South Atlantic States by virtue of their recent victories over outstanding Virginia teams, and Davidson glorying in her recent victory over the powerful Virginia Techs. Naturally, there was a keen feeling of rivalry between the two teams and the two coaches. The men of Davidson regret, however, that the fervor of the occasion led to a disputed victory, the details of which are given in the news columns of this paper.

After the smoke of the contest has cleared away, and the high tension of athletic spirit has diminished, a clear analysis of the situation would show that Coach Bailey, of Trinity, zealous in his victorious march to Southern honors, preferred to stake his chances on the possible ignorance of the Davidson coach and the referee than to rely on the fate of one of his second-rate men in the hands of Davidson's heavyweight star. It was the determining point of the contest—Trinity had put forth her best; Davidson’s best was yet untried. Coach Bailey sought to save his hitherto undefeated team by a breach of the rules of intercollegiate wrestling. He was greeted by a protest from Coach Weems—the referee refused to render a decision pending a thorough investigation of an eras rule book—the match was called to an end.

Elsewhere in this paper is quoted the authority received by telegram from the United States Naval Academy. Davidson clearly is awarded a victory. A rule book forwarded from the wrestling authorities at the Academy verifies the statement made in the telegram. Is there any room for further contest? Davidson bears no enmity for the Trinity wrestlers. The visiting team was accorded every courtesy during the meet, maintaining a friendly relationship. But with all the spirit of chivalry, Southern hospitality, gentlemanly conduct, etc., Davidson cannot believe but that Trinity showed the feather when they refused to match their duly appointed heavyweight against Davidson’s regular man of that class. There are too many facts which bear out this belief.

The strengthening force of intercollegiate athletics in the fabric of college life and activity should prohibit such action as would leave the impression of unfair play. Too often the disposition of athletics as a strengthening force and as a factor for building the real structures of college life is forgotten. The real athlete loses with the same spirit in which he accepts victory. There is still...

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

THE GENTLER SEX

The South as a whole has long been noted for its spirit of chivalry toward women and the weaker ones of both sexes. Certainly, Davidson should be proud of this heritage that has been handed down to it by illustrious forebears who treated women with the greatest respect at all times. At a picture recently shown in the gym, five young girls came into the place some time after the show had started and after everyone had seated himself comfortably. Seeing no seats, they stood over by the wall within a few feet of where most of the students had chairs and benches under them, and enjoying themselves thoroughly with the cinema. Evidently, the girls were too timid to ask for a seat or else they were disgusted by the actions or rather inertia of the students who were near where they were standing. After two reels of the show, two of them sat down on the floor while the others remained standing. As on a street car, there is no law saying that one shall give his seat to a lady, but there is all the tradition of the South that arises and says that courtesy is to be shown at all times especially to one of the gentler sex. Surely it is thoughtlessness on the part of the students here when girls or ladies are allowed to stand during the progress of an entertainment while boys remain in their seats. Probably this was an exceptional time, but at least it is to be hoped that the fair sex will not be ignored in this manner another time.

An Observer.

SPIRIT PRATINGS

We are sorry that time, space, and energy prohibit us from answering the multitude of questions asked by Mr. Galloway in his treatise of ideas, bull, study, work, religion, purpose, courses, conditions, political beliefs, and spirit of the Davidson Student Body. Many of his ideas are splendid and to the point. Many more are fanatical and have slight bearing on the life of a man while at Davidson. His opinions on College Spirit do not seem to coincide with the general conception of the term.

The first thing Mr. Galloway speaks of in his treatise on school spirit is the howl he seems to hear whenever an extra “two-bits” is charged to see a game. We do not remember having heard the howling to any marked degree, but we will assume that the gentleman has been worried by such. Suppose the fellows do grumble a little at having to pay the extra nickels. That is natural. It is not any evidence of lack of spirit. Possibly half the student body of Davidson College is going through college on borrowed money. Of course, you may say, “What's a quarter?” or even “What's a dollar, this time?” but do you stop to think that millions are composed of these units? Do you ever stop and count up the total amount of these little extra duns and fees for a whole year? The little charge in itself isn’t much, but added to the hundreds of other extra items, in a year it becomes a drain that cannot be ignored. We are not stingy; we are not cheap skates; we are not blind fools. We are men of foresight who value things according to their true worth, and act accordingly.

Mr. Galloway himself admits that every man is anxious for our teams to win every point they can, for he speaks of how they grumble when a game is lost. We back our team morally to the end, we back them financially as far as good judgment will permit. What more do you wish?

It is stated that our position in athletics is unpleasant. Of course, it is not pleasant to get beaten, but what are we going to do? Mr. Galloway states that we have the coaches, but do not have the men. There is one thing we are proud of—that the teams which represent Davidson College in all lines are of our number, and represent our student body. We feel a sense of true pain when we lose, because it is we who lose, and not someone else, using our name. Then if the big athletes do not choose to come to Davidson College, how can we lay the blame for losing some of our big games on our spirit?

Upon analysis, what is school spirit? Is it the mere act of yelling at the games; of paying the extra “two-bits,” of backing our athletic teams? It is not. These are some of the results of spirit. The real school spirit is the spirit of fellowship, of brotherhood, and of friendship between the men. It is the same spirit that makes us speak to our fellow students when we meet them on the campus. School spirit is caused by the community of interests of men in the same college. It is something almost intangible, but it is as real and true as facts. Its results are far-reaching and unlimited in their influence. It is this kind of school spirit that makes the freshman write home and say, “I like Davidson because every man seems to be my friend.” It is this kind of school spirit that every college longs to have. It is the kind of spirit that Davidson does have!

Turp.

QUO VADIS, DOMINE?

Foreword: In this article I do not intend to deal in personalities, descend to petty animosities, feeble sarcasms, or unessential trivialities, for they have always been the recourse of narrow, incapable, second-rate minds.

Have you ever stopped in the middle of a week of meetings and games and bull sessions and asked yourself, “Quo Vadis, Domine?” Or are you only a feather drifting in the wind, foolishly hoping that you will fall on a downy bed? “Whither goest thou?” is a question every man must ask. The choice of your life work has been in part pointed out. It is partly beyond your control. It depends on your capabilities, which is heredity; on your training, which is environment, and on your tastes, which are a result of these combined. However, within a certain limit the choice is left with...you, and it's essential to choose now. The runner that dodges from side to side on a track loses the race. The winner dashes straight ahead. No matter how hard you are working, if you are without a definite purpose and a conscious plan, you are losing your race. If you veer like a weather vane with every idle wind and whiff of campus bull, you will get dizzy and fall; whereas a man who drives day after day on a mapped-out course will inevitably succeed. The Davidson student body reminds me of that old song, “I don’t know where I'm going, but I’m on my way.” You run feverishly about from bull session to meeting, from this thing to that; and when you do nothing else you “sit on a rock and rest, by gosh.” You have no idea of coordination or system. Very few have a definite daily program. You may know where you are going, but you don’t show it by your actions. It’s about time to change the tune and start asking, “Where do we go from here, boys; where do we go from here?”

What the Davidson student body needs is system. You need a definite goal and a road leading to it. We claim we have a cultural college. If culture is “training of mind, morals, and taste” (Century Dictionary), we are getting one-third of it in a half-hearted way. Davidson can build your character—if you help; but character is neither a wishy-washy, shiftless attitude toward life, nor is it a mule-like hide-bound objection to progressing just a little bit every century. You can cultivate your mind here if you want it, but not by slavishly memorizing texts or by taking crips. As for taste—your ideas of literature are ridiculous and your attitude toward art is exactly what H. L. Mencken meant when he spoke of the South as “The Sahara of the Bozart.” (Note: Bozart are literature, sculpture, painting, and music, which with the exception of Coles Phillips and jazz you haven't got); and tastes are the highest test of culture. Culture will make your contact with people pleasant (if you have it) but it won't help you materially. Is Davidson sufficiently utilitarian? What do we turn out? Teachers and preachers—and the preachers must go to the seminary and the teachers to the graduate schools. To say the least, it is something to think about.

This is an age of specialization in industry. To succeed you must be master of a field all your own. For one, it is literature; for another, business. Whatever it is, get into it. Have you selected your life work yet? The first point Mr. Todd made in his lecture on business was, Choose the Right Job. He might have added, Prepare for it. Are you in the right job? Is your contemplated life work a source of satisfaction and pleasure? If not, you are in the wrong box. It may be hard to swallow, but it is a fact. Bircher in his Industrial Evolution (which has nothing to do with monkeys) remarks, “The further we follow labor back, the more closely it approaches to play.” Another psychologist declares that “All the great things done in the world were accomplished in the play spirit.” That is, they threw themselves into their life work as into a game for the game’s sake. The college student prates about play. What he needs to do is to make his work his play. The men who accomplish things don’t fiddle around looking for crips or working just to keep out of the poorhouse. If you can’t throw yourself into your profession with a shove and a vim, and a whole-hearted devotion, you are in the wrong pew. It may be hard lines, but it’s true. Unless you are going to be a slave, you must find a work that you are willing to work on in spare time, and not just because you have to.

The Davidson curriculum will give you only an introduction to knowledge. You must supplement it by individual work. You may not get credit for it here but you will have learned a little at least. The Davidson student body falls into four classes: (1) The few who know what they want and are getting it—paying no attention to trivialities but grouping their effort around their chosen life work—be it chemistry, botany, or literature. They have the big chance to succeed. They realize the importance of knowledge and are getting ready to take a place in the social structure. Are you in this group? (2) Still the few who are hopelessly ornamented with empty positions and useless clubs and honorary fraternities that do them no good whatever. Their activities are uncoordinated. They need to strip off the ornamental and get to the vital question, Why am I here? (3) There is the third group—those who plod along at a dog-trot; blind to everything but their petty interests, narrow, dogmatic. They talk about the fundamentals of religion when religion has nothing to do with it. The truth is they are too lazy to get out of the rut. Davidson is a force in turning out Christian men? We grant Bradford that. We are proud of it. But why not broad Christian men? Is Christianity Presbyterianism? While we quibble about details of church government and dogma and smile complacently at every one-horse speaker who flatters our conceit, the world is criticizing the very life force of our religion. The church needs men who know science and (Continued on page 5)

Chaff

MONKEY GLANDS AND SUCH

“He who has no glands in him and is not moved by a potent elixir of youthful pep and vigor, is fit only for stratagems, treason, and the old men’s home. Let every such man be busted.”

Monkey Business——

The above is strictly our sentiments concerning the far-famed ductless organs of our simian prototypes. Pro-Steinach or Anti-Steinach, one must admit that the gland business is all the go, and one who is not thinking of getting at least one or three glands is fit only as a candidate for a nice room with a southern exposure in a haven for retired gents or in some antique shop where the nice, talkative ladies visit every Saturday afternoon and bring flowers from the Ladies’ Aid. In short, glands are the cat’s klookus, and it behooves us, as strict observers of everything that's fashionable, to say a few words pro and con.

Monkey Business

In primeval fen and jungle was I king. Lord of all apes and simian creatures that cower from man. I lived. In the pride of my strength and power was I supreme as Swiss cheese in a delicatessen store. I pounded my chest—hairy, brawny, lusty, knotted chest, and roared. But now, fettered in a steel cage, I wait the verdict of the glandists' probe. Will I do for glands is the big question. Medicos with shining domes leer at me and say, “What a fine monk.” One in particular I hate because he is soon to have my thyroid gland for his senile being. Glands—Glands—glands—glands—glands. I wish I never had one of the obnoxious things. But wait! I'll fill my glands with spleen that will infect his carcass with a desire to crawl and eat bananas. He'll be performing in a zoo ere long. Watch out. (Note—The above was taken from the effects of a much-beloved orangutan who died of jealousy because the docs got another monk's glands than his).

Monkey Business.

It is rumored that organ grinders of the Italian type are losing out entirely owing to the shortage of monkeys due to rises in the gland market. However, the ones who grind the organs of the monks themselves are getting richer day by day, peddling their preparations.

Monkey Business

Witness this letter:

Dear Dr. g,

This is to certify that I'm a well man now and am as peart and chipper as a Davidson student in the Alhambra. Three bottles of your Gland0 put the skids under all my ailments and transformed me from seventy to twenty-seven. I can now help with all the housework. My once-bald pate has now an abundant crop of hirsute vegetation, and I now smoke cork-tipped cigarettes. I recommend your dope to all old boys who can’t tell whether a good-looking chicken is coming or going.

I. M. Younger.

This letter speaks for itself in regard to the merits of the stuff. Of course, we have not mercenary motives in reproducing it, only it may encourage some of our once-shicks to tone up their tonneaus.

Monkey Business:

Some get glands
And then get young.
Others do the same,
But they get stung.

—Monkey Business

No longer do we fear the count of years that glide on by for all the time will not amount to a batting of an eye since monkey glands are here to stay. We know no better mode of getting younger day by day. No matter what the age or looks, a dose or two of glands will keep away the hants and spooks that frisky youth demands.

Take Hiram Jenks, a frisky gink, who's only ninety-three; his legs were getting on the blink, he couldn't hear or see. He lacked a charge of youthful pep to set his gears in fit, he craved some vigor for his step, his golf socks wouldn't fit. But soon he heard of Doctor Graft, who grafted glands and things, the only medic of his craft who knew his stuff, by Jing! So Grandpa Hiram took a course of transubstantiation. He cried with joyful voice and hoarse, “I’m brimful of elation.” Instead of just a pair of glands he took some six or eight, the highest powered in the land for one in such a state. The potent powers of the grafts put strength in legs and arms, he kicked his crutches fore and aft and gained his youthful charms. He jumped from four to just two score, and still he’s going back to sweet sixteen, he’s awful sore. He gives his heels a crack and cries aloud, “Alack, Alas! No younger must I get. The boys will give me all the razz for trusting such a bet. If these darn glands keep on and work, I'll lose my many charms, my pastimes will I have to shirk, I'll be a babe in arms.”

—Monkey Business.

First Stude—You know, I believe that our coach is taking monkey glands.
Second Stude—Why so, Sherlock?
First Stude—Because he's younger every day.

Monkey Business

We have not as yet heard of any plants given over entirely to the producing of glands. A younger generation may live to see the time when they are retailed in nice little boxes, all printed up and costing a very modern sum. Maybe they will serve them in a barber shop and it will take only a few minutes to get all pepped up with them.

DARWIN, JR.