THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

SPRING FOOTBALL OPENS

BEAT CAROLINA GRAPPLERS

SPORTING GOODS - Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

The Dope Fiend
By W. F. Galloway

You're setting the pace now, Wildcats. Let's keep going. Three scalps this week, just for a starter. It is Florida's first journey this way since '21. Score on Trinity: Red and Black Cagers Outclass Durham Lads on Home Floor—Sapp and Anderson Lead Scoring. The Wildkittens, playing their second cage game of the season, and their first encounter with a college quintet, swamped the Trinity contenders in a game played at the gym last Monday night. The final score was 28 to 14. The Wildcats trimmed them then 45-26. It was more football than basketball at times. Romefelt and Madison had a regular boxing bout in the bargain. The Jax. papers say the Davidson game is Florida's best chance for a victory. Sometimes we wonder. Sook Boggs broke into the limelight as a scorer in the Statesville game. Sook made an even ten points. Carolina was a little off on her shots in the Davidson game, but they made up for it by floor work and guarding. A Carolina man after the game said: “We have met the enemy and they are ours.” We imagine they were rather glad it was over with.

Extra! Wake Walthall is going out for track. Ang. McBryde was examined Saturday. If Ang. can, it means a big help in the distances. Dual meets with V. P. I., V. M. I., W. & L. That's not bad to begin with. Add to a chance for a go at Furman, with a couple of state meets and you have a mouthful for any team. V. P. I. and probably Carolina will show their speed on Richardson Field. That new oval out there just looks like a good track team on the surface of things. Coach Tilson is back to give the Wildcats a taste of spring football. Must be getting ready for that Lenoir game next year. Carolina beat V. M. I. State beat Clemson, Furman, and Wofford, but lost to Georgia and Mercer. Elon beats V. P. I. and Carolina beat Elon 60-13. I imagine the Gobblers would like to have Coach Monk back again. Trinity licked State 35-23. Carolina licked Trinity 31-20. Trinity beat Wake Forest 26-22. When Flake Laird got started against Guilford he tied the old game up all by himself. Keep up the good work, Flake. It took Boggs and Sapp to stop the Frazier lads. They had been our Jonahs a couple of times before. And, just for a conclusion, Hippo the Houck won a wrestling match. Hippo thought it was a necking party and sailed right in.

Point scores for the first six games are:
Field Foul
Player Games Goals Goals Points
Beville 6 26 9 61
Staley 6 28 359 Sapp: 5 14 1 29 Davis: 2-2 6 10 1 21 Boggs: 6 6 4 16 Hewlett: 4 2 2 6 Beall: 3 2 0 4

Dr. W. J. Martin has been away from the town for several days attending the meeting of the Southern Educational Board at Memphis, Tenn.

The first half indicated a closer score than the final accounting shows, for at the end of the first period the score stood 11 to 9, in favor of Davidson. But coming back in the second half, the Wildcat Freshmen easily outplayed the Methodists, allowing them to make only 5 more points, while they rolled up 17. Both teams were guarding closely in the first period, but the Davidson Freshmen, by their brilliant passwork, were able in the second half to slip by the Methodists. Both teams used the five-man defense, the Davidson team working it to better advantage. The Trinity team ineffectively tried the long route to the basket, while the Wildcats used passes in getting it under the goal for short shots. For Trinity, Bagg registered half of their points, while Anderson, with 11 counters to his credit, and Sapp, with 10, accounted for the larger part of Davidson’s total. The line-up follows:

Trinity (14) Position Davidson (28)
Butler Right forward Anderson (11)
Burkheimer (1) (c) Left forward Hewlett (4)
Hudgins (2) Center Sapp (10) (c)
Satchwell Right guard Rhodes (4)
Bagg (7) Left guard Simpson (1)

Substitutions—Trinity: Wagner (2) for Butler; Hays for Satchwell.

Coach Rawson’s Wildkittens Double Fresh In Slow Game

WRESTLING TEAM MEETS CAROLINA SATURDAY

Davidson will have its first intercollegiate wrestling match of this season Saturday night when Coach Weems’ grapplers meet the Carolina squad on the home square. This week has seen extra training for the Red and Black grapplers and everything is set to give Carolina a trimming. This will be Davidson’s second meet, whereas the Carolina wrestlers will have the advantage of what they have learned in a number of matches. They have just returned from a Virginia trip, where they defeated the University, tied V. P. I., lost to Washington and Lee by one point, and were beaten by V. M. I. 13 to 5. They will come to Davidson after meeting the Concord “Y,” which Davidson swamped 21 to 0, in Concord, the night before.

A good bit of interest is being developed in wrestling on the hill, and an enthusiastic crowd is expected out to witness an interesting and varied program. Good preliminaries will be arranged and matches will be run in all weights. Davidson will probably enter the meet minus the services of Cromartie, 129-pound man, and Davidson's best bet. At present, he is out of practice on account of a wrenched shoulder and it is doubtful that he will be in shape for the fracas. It is believed that under Captain Weems’ tutelage Davidson has developed the best team in its wrestling career, and that Carolina has a good record thus far insures that a battle royal will ensue.

The Thelemites Club met on Friday, January 25th, with Mrs. J. P. Williams. Mrs. Erwin and Mrs. Hurd presented interesting papers.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The Old Stand Open Once Again Appreciative Service W. G. SHIELDS Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

Get behind and push or get in front and pull

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers