THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

ALUMNI NEWS

Here and There

’82—James Edward Carson died Sunday, December 9, in Dilworth. His death was due to paralysis with which he has been
troubled for several years. Mr. Carson has been a prominent figure in the business life of Asheboro, N. C., where
he located after leaving Davidson. Due to his health, he had come to Charlotte last fall to spend the winter
and to visit his son, McAlister Carson, of the Class of ‘13.

’93—Rev. W. M. Hunter, chairman of Synod’s Committee on Education, conducted an important meeting in Charlotte on December 13th. Religious
representatives from all over the state were present.

’08—Rev. W. J. Garrison recently conducted an evangelistic meeting in Key West, Fla., 17 members being received into the church.

’01—Announcement was made of the “Barium Springs Messenger,” which is a new church paper. Mr. J. B. Johnston is manager
and treasurer of this institution and is responsible for this and many other advanced steps which have been taken at
the orphanage.

’00—Rev. Robert King, D.D., has accepted the position of Synodical Evangelist in the state of Georgia, with headquarters in Atlanta.

’07—Rev. J. C. Purcell was given permission to labor outside Wilmington Presbytery. Mr. Purcell has accepted the position of Secretary
of Men’s Work of the Church, and his office will be in Chattanooga, Tenn. Quite a compliment has come to
Mr. Purcell that he, of all the aggressive young ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church, should be chosen for this
work.

’10—Rev. Meck R. Long, of Statesville, recently assisted the pastor of the Leggett’s Presbyterian Church in evangelistic services during which
18 members were added to the church.

’13—At a special meeting of the members of Steele Creek Church on Thanksgiving Day, Rev. S. A. Evert made an
address, assisted by Rev. G. H. Robertson.

’17—At the opening of the new home of the Grace Covenant Church in Richmond, Va., Rev. C. L. King, D.D.,
delivered the sermon.

’14—Rev. Rupert McGregor was installed as pastor of the Lexington (N. C.) Presbyterian Church on December 16th. Rev. E. A.
Woods, a student at Union Seminary, is assisting in conducting a standard interdenominational training school in Richmond, Va.

’20—Rev. R. E. McClure was moderator at the recent meeting of Wilmington (N. C.) Presbytery. Davidson men will sympathize with
Rev. R. C. Clontz in the death of his little daughter. Mr. Clontz is pastor of the Presbyterian Church at
Cornelius, N. C., and at Bethel Church.

Norwood H. McGilvary

Norwood H. McGilvary was born in Siam, where his father, Rev. D. McGilvary, spent most of his life doing mission
work. The younger Mr. McGilvary entered Davidson College and graduated with the class of 1896. The following three years he
spent in New York studying art. Today he is Professor of Art in the Carnegie School of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Some of his paintings, mostly of landscapes, may be seen in the National Museum, Washington, D. C.

Frank Hayne Baker

Frank Hayne Baker was married to Miss Marguerite Kenney, in the Presbyterian Church of Clifton Forge, Va., on December 21st.
Mr. Baker is an old Davidson student, of the class of ’17. While in college, he was one of the
leaders of campus activities, a member of several campus organizations, and a staunch member of the Bachelor Club. This news
comes from his brother, W. T. Baker, ex-’23, who is now attending Union Seminary.

Lunsford Richardson, Jr., Ex-’14

Lunsford Richardson, Jr., is well remembered and endeared in the hearts of Davidson men. He was unable to finish his
promising college career and did not return after his sophomore year. Lunsford was popular among the boys, respected by the
faculty, and excelled on the athletic field. He won his letter in football, displaying the fighting spirit of a true
Wildcat, for which he will long be remembered. Now, however, he will be even better remembered as the donor of
our magnificent athletic field which bears the name of Richardson Field. Lunsford, in the whirlwind of life, has been very
successful. He is an important member of the Vick Chemical Company located in Greensboro, N. C., where he now resides.

Last May, a ceremony occurred at Rock Hill in which he played an important part. This was his marriage to
Miss Blakeney. The love for Davidson which Richardson has shown by his gifts to the college, and his interest in
all things pertaining thereto, has led to his election to the office of President of the Alumni Association. He is
also a member of the advisory Athletic Council. To such a faithful alumnus of Davidson, all of her alumni wish
to express a word of grateful appreciation.

The Gastonia Alumni Association had a banquet at the Presbyterian Church, January 1st.Church on December 28th, at which 60 Davidson
men were present. Dr. J. M. McConnell and Mr. F. L. Jackson represented the college. After the banquet, the election
of officers took place. H. A. Query was elected president; T. Henry Wilson, secretary and treasurer, and M. R. Patrick,
campus secretary, whose duty is to keep the association in touch with the activities on the hill.

The Grace Covenant Church of Richmond, Va., of which C. L. King is pastor, recently held the formal opening of
the new auditorium, built immediately following the completion of the new $150,000 Sunday School. The church has a membership of
1,100 and the Sunday School has 900.

Rev. W. T. Thompson, Jr. of the faculty of the Union Theological Seminary sailed on December 18th for a visit
to the Far East, on an invitation of the missionary agencies there. He will hold a series of conferences on
“Religious Education” in Korea, Japan, and China.

Rev. John R. Hay received a call to Catlettsburg, Ky. and signified his willingness to accept the call. His own
church (of Brevard, N. C.), however, showed their appreciation of his services by requesting the Presbytery not to allow him
to accept the call. He will remain in Brevard, much to the delight and satisfaction of his present congregation.

After two months vacation in the mountains of North Carolina and Tennessee, Rev. W. M. Fairley has returned to his
pulpit in the Westminster Presbyterian Church of El Paso, Texas.

G. McCaskill, ’21, was married to Miss Sarah Barnhardt, at Concord, N. C. They will be at home in New
York City after January 10th.

Robert Lee McKinnon, ’14, Killed in Auto Wreck at Charleston, W. Va.

Rev. Robert L. McKinnon, mission pastor of Bream Memorial Church, Charleston, W. Va., was killed on Friday night, December 14,
1923, when the automobile in which he was riding was struck by a New York Central passenger train at a
grade crossing. Mr. McKinnon, accompanied by one of the members of his church, was returning from Rebecca Littlepage where he
had conducted a prayer meeting. The two were driving at a moderate rate of speed, and from reports, apparently did
not hear the approaching train. The car was dragged about 50 feet down the track after being hit. The bodies
of the two occupants were found beneath the wreckage, badly mangled.

Mr. McKinnon was a graduate of Union Theological Seminary, and had been a resident of Charleston for three years, during
which time he had complete charge of the mission work of the Bream Memorial Church, one of the largest churches
of the city, maintaining four missions. Mr. McKinnon is survived by his wife and a 15-month-old son, to whom sympathy
is extended by the many friends of the deceased. During his college days, his classmates had this to say of
Mr. McKinnon: “We never saw him get mad. He always goes about with a genial good humor that wins and
keeps friends, and a never-failing good nature that can see the doughnut instead of the hole.”

Elliott-Gordon

On December 28, 1923, at the Augusta Stone Church of Fort Defiance, Va., the wedding of Mr. Harry Elliott and
Miss Eleanor Gordon was solemnized. The ceremony was performed by Rev. J. B. Gordon, the father of the bride. Mr.
Robert Gordon, ’23, the brother of the bride, was the best man, and Miss Dorothy Finlayson, of Davidson, was maid
of honor. The groom is the assistant cashier of the Davidson Bank, and an alumnus of Davidson College, graduating in
the class of 1918. The happy couple returned to Davidson immediately after the ceremony. They are at home to their
many friends at the residence of Dr. Harding.

STUDENT C. E. CLASS TO DIRECT CHURCH CLASS

The Christian Endeavor Training Class meeting was held in Shearer Hall Sunday afternoon, with President Wallace W. Purdy presiding. The
usual program was changed. Each member was called upon to give a short account of what he had done while
at home during the holidays in the interest of the work. They also asked for an account of the work
his home society is doing. Many said they had given talks telling of the advantages received from the training class
at Davidson. It was decided that a definite program of work for the balance of this year should be mapped
out, in order that the class might have some set goal toward which to strive. More men will be urged
to take part and suggest new ideas.

At the last meeting before the holidays, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle came before the training class and asked that it
take over the operation of the local Endeavor society and put it on a good working basis. He thought someone
should be in charge who would give the members new interest and a desire to render more useful work to
the community in the future. A committee consisting of J. M. Garrison, chairman, A. L. Hollingsworth, J. R. Parker, W.
H. Lynch, and S. W. Doss was appointed to investigate further into the matter and to solve the problem now
confronting the society.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

In the lexicon of youth, which Fate reserves for a bright manhood, there’s just one word to sum up the
college student’s idea of dress: Ease! Hence the success of our young men’s Fall and Winter suits. Rather full backs
with perfectly soft fronts. Trousers fairly wide. Good selection from $35.00.

MELLON'S

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

We are specially prepared to analyze and take care of your INSURANCE NEEDS. A consultation with us might SAVE YOU
SEVERE LOSSES.

McALISTER CARSON, Manager
Insurance Department
Independence Trust Company
Phone 3940
