THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

King y MARY ROBERTS RINEHART Directed By VICTOR SCHERTZINGER Under Personal Supervision JACK COOGAN, Sr. JACKIE COOGAN COMING IN HIS
BIGGEST FILM

With more than $400,000 spent on the construction of the sets alone, Jackie Coogan’s latest picture, “Long Live the King,”
his first under the $1,500,000 Metro contract which was given him recently, ought to fulfill all the advance reports which
were broadcasted throughout the country at the time this picture was in the making in Hollywood. That it is an
unusually lavish and beautiful production is substantiated by the fact that it contains several exact duplications of famous European structures.
One is of the famous castle of Neuschwanstein in Bavaria, a landmark in European architecture, another of the world-renowned opera
house at Dresden, Germany, and still another of the beautiful Cathedral in Herzegovina, the shrine of millions of European visitors.
A special research staff sailed from Europe for Hollywood at the time production was begun with exact designs and plans
for the duplication of these famous structures. “Long Live the King” is an adaptation of Mary Roberts Rinehart's famous novel
of the same name. It was directed by Victor Schertzinger from the continuity by C. Gardner Sullivan and Eve Unsell
and photographed by Frank Good and Robert Martin. William Van Brincken was research expert and J. J. Hughes art director.
The picture was produced for Metro under the personal supervision of Jack Coogan, Sr.

WOODROW WILSON (Continued from page 1)

In 1873, Thomas A. Wilson, a student in the college, was withdrawn from college on account of inattention to duty.
Woodrow Wilson completed the year at Davidson, averaging 91 1-2 in his studies. Several stories are told of Wilson's athletic
record. Wilson, playing on the Freshman team, loafed on the paths and was caught at the plate, thereby losing the
game. The coach did not appreciate Wilson's indifference and attacked him as harshly as have his political assailants in later
years. In another game, Wilson, by a spectacular catch of a line drive, won the game. Although at Davidson only
a year, Wilson never forgot the little Presbyterian college. Seventy Davidson students went to Washington to his first inauguration in
1913, and along with the students of Princeton, Johns Hopkins, and Virginia were assigned a place near the head of
the college section. As soon as he saw the Davidson banner, the President rose and stood at attention until the
Davidson contingent had passed. On May 20, 1916, when President Wilson spoke at the Mecklenburg Day celebration in Charlotte, he
visited his alma mater.

Who Knows?

Wildcats all-state team in 1916 furnished five men. They were White, Black, Walker, Sayad, and Burns. In the same year,
the Wildcats defeated A. and M. in Charlotte, 16-0. The gym was begun in 1917 and opened to the students
in 1918. What a lot the old fellows must have missed! The “de-buttoning establishment” in the rear of Temporary is
comparatively a new thing. The R. O. T. C. department, which includes Wednesday afternoon drill, is one thing for which
we may thank the Kaiser (it was not before the World War). Before our time everyone went to chapel before
breakfast. Our front campus was once adorned by two naval cannon—we wonder if they were called to the colors in
1917.

In More Serious Vein

He that falleth into sin is a man, He that grieveth at it is a saint, He that boasteth of
it is a devil. —Saint Augustine.

Davidson Day of 1916 was signalized by an address by Dr. Whaling, former president of Columbia Seminary, and a classmate
of Woodrow Wilson. This letter was received by Dr. Martin:

The White House, Washington, D. C., March 20, 1917.

My Dear President Martin:

May I not thank you for your kind letter of March 5th and tell you how much pleasure it has
afforded me to know that I have the sympathy and support of the men of Old Davidson, Faculty and Student
Body? I am heartened and cheered by such reassuring messages, and hope you will express my deepest appreciation to everyone
concerned.

Cordially yours, WOODROW WILSON

SENIORS HIT THE ROAD DURING EXAM WEEK

There comes a time in the life of every Senior when he longs to lay aside the quill and scroll
and journey afar to the land of his nativity. It came to pass in the Ides of January, about the
time of the biennial examinations that Eugene the Regent said to Victor the Brown: “Come, let us depart from this
place hence. Three days’ journey west shall we go, toward the setting sun. Let us continue by way of the
flivver-path till we come to Tennessee, the land of fair horses and fast women.” And so they traveled thus, by
way of Atlanta and Chattanooga, where a blizzard overtook them. Whereat they took for themselves haven in a Pullman until
they should arrive at their destination. The women were fast but the warriors were faster and unscratched they arrived again
at their fortress and domicile about the time of the Kalends of February. And it came to pass about the
same time that the wanderlust hath smitten doughty warriors from South. And so the duke of Walthall and Sir Galloway
set out for the land of the peach tree. By land and water did they travel, across rivers with many
a Ford until they came to a palmetto tree. There, at Columbia, they embarked on the ship of the double
rail and did continue their journey until a ripe peach fell on the track and did wreck the train. Whereat
they alighted and tarried for a fortnight. After which they reembarked and with reverse English did retravel their backtrack until
the spires of Davidson bade them alight and make merry. A certain other was at the same time afflicted with
a desire to visit Agnes of Scott. This gallant courtier set him out and anon he arrived at Atlanta by
devious ways and means. Thereat he was seduced by the School of Technology. But single-handed he beat them off and
continued his way to the house of Scott. He was welcomed by Agnes and remained four days in the vicinity
of theneighborhood making much merriness. Then continuing his quest he came to Asheville in the land of the sky and
near unto Montreat. And at Montreat he found that there had been fire and of fire there still remained many.
And with the fire that had been he was displeased for it destroyed an edifice. But in the fire that
remained he rejoiced exceedingly for it strengthened a man’s heart. And after a few days and a night this pilgrim
also returned and took up his abode in the barracks. And yet another did venture forth upon the asphalt trail
in the days of the Ides of the first month, yea until the Kalends of the second month did he
stray afar. The scion of the house of Hudgins did turn his footsteps northward toward the pole star until he
came to Richmond in the heart of the old dominion. For two days and nights did the redoubtable Perrin walk
two-score miles and ten without sleep or repose. He captured him a lizzie of tin and ere the setting of
the third sun was in his native city of Richmond. And he dwelt in the house of his father a
fortnight and a day. And this pilgrim returned and there was peace in the lair of the Wildcats.

BAH JOVE MAKES HISTORY IN RUMPLE DORMITORY

Quite a disturbance occurred in the east side of Rumple the other day when several of the inmates of that
quaint old dorm came into the hall and were about to be floated out. On account of that dorm being
so subject to fire, and there also having been various prophecies that it would be burned ere long, even the
institution fearing the same, it was thought wise to install a system of sprinklers, which, in case of fire, would
automatically set into action and extinguish the flames. Those students had an idea that the sprinklers were being tried out
for the first time. Glad they were to know that the authorities of the college had such an interest at
heart to authorize the installation of these modern means of fighting fire. But it so happened that water was flowing
freely through the veins of the campus, and in fact the tall tank had overflowed, proving a super-abundance of water,
a thing most unusual around here. It also happened that “Bah Jove” Rogers had taken very strenuous exercise, having gone
around the golf course once, and since he was feeling so tired and in extreme need of a bath he
proceeded to take one. He turned on the water full blast. Now everyone knows that he is a slow thinker.
He even stayed on the English III exam until seven o'clock, an exam which any should be able to finish
in 60 minutes at most. So he could not get his brain to work quickly enough to see that there
was a steady stream of water flowing out into the hall and down to the second and first floors. It
was “Bah Jove” taking a bath, and not the new automatic sprinklers which was flooding Rumple and giving it the
once over.

Town News

Misses Louise English and Sallie Schenck of Queens College spent the weekend with Mrs. Hengeteldt. Mrs. Walter Henderson, who has
been very ill, is considerably improved. Miss Bonnie Shelton spent last weekend with friends at Cooleemee. Misses Mary and Martha
Hamilton, who are attending State College for Women, spent last week at home. They were exempt from examinations. The Lovers’
Club entertained by Mrs. Shewmake last Friday afternoon. Mrs. Hamilton gave an interesting lecture on “Early Gothic Architecture.” Mr. and
Mrs. E. L. Williamson, parents of Vardell Williamson, of Fayetteville, spent several days last week with Dr. and Mrs. Martin.
Mrs. Colin Monroe, of Charlotte, is visiting her daughter, Mrs. J. M. Douglas. Prof. Kenneth Foreman is now supplying the
pulpit of the church at Montreat. Mrs. Sarah Killiam, of Virginia, is visiting her granddaughter, Mrs. Mebane. Mrs. O. J.
Thies, Jr., is visiting her sister, Mrs. O. J. Thies, Sr., in Charlotte. Miss McDonald, Red Cross nurse, of Atlanta,
Ga., will hold classes on home hygiene for the next three weeks at 10 o'clock in the mornings, and at
7 o'clock at night; she teaches the ladies of the town. At 1 p.m. she holds a class for the
high school girls; at 3 p.m. for the women. On last Saturday morning she gave a lecture to the janitors
of the college, teaching them the proper care of the rooms. Mrs. Gale Woolsy and Mrs. John Cal- (Continued on
page 6).

CAROLINA’S LEADING CLEANERS and DYERS
“PARTICULAR WORK FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE”
AMERICAN DRY CLEANING CO.
1406-08 South Tryon Street
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Our College Representative Will Call

ROGER BACON
1214-1294
English philosopher and man of science. Studied at Oxford and the University of Paris. Wrote the Opus Majus, Opus Minus,
Opus Tertium, and many other treatises.

More than a million dollars a year is devoted to research by the General Electric Company in order that the
giant—electricity—may be made more and more useful to mankind.

For this he was sent to prison

Roger Bacon may not have invented gunpowder, as has been claimed by some biographers of the famous Franciscan friar, but
he exploded some of the outstanding errors of thirteenth-century thought. Because of his advanced teachings, Bacon spent many years of
his life in prison. In an age of abstract speculation, he boldly asserted the mathematical basis of all the sciences.
But even mathematical calculation, he showed, must be verified by experiment, which discovers truths that speculation could never reach.

In the Research Laboratories of the General Electric Company, Bacon’s principles are followed in every experimental investigation. The gas-filled electric
lamp and the electron tube were worked out on paper, but it was experimental verification of the underlying mathematical theory
that made electric illumination, radio broadcasting, and X-rays what they are today.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
