4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE Editor
KENNETH S. McALPINE Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Managing Editor J. M. GARRISON
Assistant Managing Editor A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
Assistant Managing Editor P. F. JONES
Peanut Parcher W. H. LYNCH
Associate Editor J. R. Ernest
Associate Editor Captain of the Band
Associate Editor Captain G. H. Weems
Alumni Editor General A. J. Bowley
Athletic Editor Warrant Officer E. J. Lacock

Staff
Circulation Manager L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
Subscription Manager R. H. McILWAINE
Bookkeeper D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres
Service Manager G. McMILLAN
Typist A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas

REPORTERS’ CLUB
E. MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY
P. O'CONNOR
H. M. AUSTIN
W. H. BRANCE
B. PARK
Y. PITTS
RATCHFORD
REGE
J. B. THOMPSON
L. D. WHARTON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

THE COLLEGE BAND

During the past few years, Davidson has had a college band which functioned well enough but lacked the advantages of specialized instruction. The band has always worked hard but received little recognition. This year, Captain G. H. Weems, Commandant of the Davidson R.O.T.C. unit, is determined to have the best college band in the State and is leaving no stone unturned in the accomplishment of his purpose. Through the cooperation of General A. J. Bowley, Commander of Fort Bragg, Warrant Officer E. J. Lacock, leader of the Fort Bragg band, will devote thirty days of his leave to the instruction of the Davidson College band. With this specialized instruction, the prospects are good for having the best band in Davidson history. J. R. Ernest, captain of the band, has developed the organization of the band, which now numbers about thirty men in its membership. A first-class band means much, and the boys are working overtime that they may get the benefit of the best instruction which this section of the country can afford.

GET BEHIND THE WILDCATS

The fighting Wildcats have won their fourth straight victory of the season, but six grueling battles stare them in the face. Outweighed in the past four engagements, the Wildcats meet more beef and brawn in the coming games. Right in succession, the Red and Black Machine fights against six teams which outweigh it from twelve to thirty pounds per man. That fact means that every man on the team will have to assimilate a terrific amount of punishment. The very fact that a man plays on a Wildcat team stamps him as a fighter—one who is always scrapping, even against overwhelming odds. But a fighter needs to be in the best physical and mental condition to be at his best. Coaches Monk and Tex are taking care of the physical welfare of the squad, and of the mental also to a large degree. But the attitude and backing of the student body have an undoubted effect on the morale of the team. The influence of the student body is felt, not only in the cheering at the games but in many other ways. The response to the calls for work on the athletic field has an unquestionable effect on the mental plane of the team. It is hard for the men who work between two and three hours on the gridiron every day for three months to feel that the students are back of them when a call for work on the athletic field brings out a mere handful of boys. If the students are not willing to work an hour or two to help make conditions better for the team, can the team believe that the student body is one hundred percent back of them? Rooting is a most important thing and necessary to the morale of every team, but the real test of spirit comes when there is work to be done. The motto of “Let the other fellow do it” will not work. The team is out on the field every afternoon one hundred percent strong. Let’s back Coaches Monk and Tex and show the team that we are all behind them.

Chaff
Open Forum With the College Editors

HARD WORK

Meditation and day-dreaming are necessary in every person’s life. There should be a certain amount of time set apart each week for this. We must be able to picture the things we are striving for in our minds before we can attain them. Most of us, while in high school, set our aim in life very high. College students, as a rule, are the pick of the young people in the community from which they came and have a purpose in life. We picture the time when we will hold a prominent place in the progress of the world. But let us remember that dreams and pictures do not complete the task. They must be backed with hard, sincere work. There are no shortcuts to success. No doubt we all would like to drift into the beautiful harbor of success; but when we drift, we are likely to go someplace other than where we intended to go. The canoe that is rowed is the one that lands safely. Students might be divided into three classes. Some people seem to possess the art of handshaking, substituting that for hard work. We can hear other students say, “Well, I suppose I will get by; that’s all I care for.” They do just get by too, and when you hear from them out in life, they are usually still “getting by.” Others say, “I have a goal in life that I am striving to reach.” In most cases, the striving ones will succeed. Those that try the hard work way make our leaders. We do not mean that anyone should kill himself at work or make life a drudgery by it, but that he should be constantly going upward step by step. Success is not reached in a single act. It is a process of continual growth. Each day should be filled with constant effort. Our trouble is that we are often side-tracked by the unimportant things. We use our time in such a way that it is wasted. Time is valuable, and a person is fortunate when he learns just how to use every minute of it. Franklin said, “If you love life, then do not squander time because that is what life is made of.” Put the first things in life first and the second things second, but make every hour count. Edison’s life in some respects is a failure, but he has succeeded in the world of invention. He has changed the world by his contributions. How did he do it? Did he do it by handshaking people, cheating his way through, or by doing just enough work to get by? No, he now even in his old age, often forgets to go to his meals because of hard consecrated work. He says that practically all of his success has come as a result of hard work rather than natural skill. Have you a high standard in life? If not, spend hours alone in meditation and prayer and get a vision of your task. When you have received the vision, strive toward it by hard consecrated effort. No doubt many will not be able to reach what they are striving for. The aim may be too high to be reached, but with a high aim, the success will be greater than with a low aim. If you desire to make any contributions to the world’s progress, matriculate in the University of Hard Work. So much there is that we should do, And your place and mine own never fill. As we observe those by their skill Who rise to fame are very few. —Orange and Blue Carson-Newman College.

KEEP IN THE GAME

Who was it said that the man who hasn't anything to boast of but his illustrious ancestors is like unto a potato? The only good belonging to him is underground. Whether you handle a pick or wheelbarrow or a set of books here in college, you have got to work, for to achieve what the world dubs success, a man must attend strictly to business and keep a little in advance of the times. Just as you take time to sit on the sideline, you begin to worry about yourself and your possessions; so the only way to keep an open mind is to keep busy, and then, besides, there is a satisfaction that grows with each achievement. When you are kept busy enough, you have no time to watch for slights and chills from cold shoulders. Just as long as you can make the days produce something that helps the world, there is something that keeps adding joy to your life and years to your future. The best of all ways to keep abreast of the times is to start something! Grasp an idea and work it out to a successful conclusion. That’s about all there is in life for any of us. —Emory Wheel.

WHY DAVIDSON STUDENTS COMPLAIN

Perhaps a better and more comprehensive title to this detailed piece of composition would be, “Why don't they complain more?” At any rate, it is a self-evident fact that the charges of this institution have just grounds for complaint, as did the imbiber of the delicious Java when he found a handful of sediment in the bottom of his cup. That these very same grounds have not been washed away by the torrential rains of the past few weeks is due no doubt to the beneficent provision of an all-wise providence which decreed that students of old Davidson must have some bases for their arguments. It is perhaps a wise provision of nature that some days and moments in and around this hallowed spot seem so faultless, so devoid of entangling alliances of cosmopolitan things, and so free from worry, that it is with a vain effort that we attempt to complain. There is simply nothing of which or for which to complain. On the other hand, it will do well to remember that those days and nights when—but let us not dwell upon matters of a lugubrious nature just now. Pertaining to prehistoric occurrences, we can, by delving into vast volumes dealing with the primitive era of the college, find countless accounts of mutterings, sundry and otherwise, on the parts of those who were fortunate toattend this place. Harking back even unto 1837 A.D., we can find numerous accounts of complaints against the high price of that well-known beverage, coal-oil. This article was a very useful piece of furniture back in the ante-bellum days when midnight burning of the oil was quite the vogue. Sometimes its price would ascend to the peerless heights of nine cents per gallon and this would cause many scathing epithets to be heaped upon the heads of the unsuspecting oil barons. It was rumored around the campus of that day and time that a movement was on foot, or in hand, to purchase a whale on the co-operative plan so that each and every student might have an ample supply of sperm oil with which to light the scenes of their bull sessions. It has never been found out whether or not the companion of Jonah was actually purchased. All this goes to show that afflictions have been our common lot, however, and the fact that the Davidson student has not absolutely revolted, speaks well for the virile, two-fisted, blue-blooded, Anglo-Saxon stock from which this college has drawn most of its trade. This reference to stock does not imply that livestock or stockholders were part and parcel of our life here, quite the opposite indeed. When the stars fell with a mighty bang back in the "30's" or "40's" somewhere, and caused most of the population to seek their Bibles and prayer books, did the students of Davidson complain? — They did not. Their minds were too much taken up with thoughts of seeking the tall timber where the wrath of the sidereal universe would not be wreaked upon their tender craniums. When the war between the States came on, did our boys revolt at the thought of missing classes on account of the pesky Yankee varmints who persisted in shooting up half the country? Most of them spiked their guns and hit off to where Forrest and Lee were waiting for them with open arms, and the mama's boys who were left here, molded bullets and tore up their shirts for bandages during their odd minutes off from classes. Even when Win. J. Bryan was advocating his free-silver policy and announced that he would make Davidson on his itinerary, the hardy students leaped with unbounded joy at the news. This was due to the report that several dumbbell yokels got out, to the effect that the free silver clause in Bill Bryan’s platform meant that he was distributing shiny dimes and quarters to each and every person who fell under the sway of his argentiferous-toned mouthings. It must be admitted that the scholars, in spite of their saintly demeanor, voiced a few protests every now and then when matters took a too sudden turn for the worse. For instance, when the cook at one of the largest and most favorable cooked up three boxes of carpet tacks with the hash, thinking that he had used pepper, the boldest of the victims voiced an indignant protest that sounded like the mutterings of Asrom’s crowd when they felt the effect of daylight savings time in the arid wastes of the desert. Again, when one of the college presidents absent-mindedly announced that the day would be a holiday, all the students grasped opportunity by the horns and tail and took an all-day trip to Mt. Mourne, Cornelius and other distant points. When they came back, they found that the announcement was an oversight and their grades had been lowered by twenty-five in every subject. It is said that one fellow came near to flunking that year, too. But in our day and time it is different. The old boys who are now our distinguished ancestors never had to put up with flappers, bobbed hair, horseless carriages, muddy walks and all such nuisances. Girls of long ago did not flap, or at least didn't do so in public. Hair was worn long, and the speediest vehicle in these parts was the red and white buggy owned by one of the professors, who used to promenade up and down main street, pulled by a broken-winded mare that stopped every two blocks to recuperate from her strenuous exertions. Boys back in those days went barefooted between Sundays so it didn't make very much difference about mud. We have to stand for the women in street cars and sit for them while they are getting their locks abbreviated in our pet tonsorial parlor. A package that is entrusted to the care of Uncle Sam’s gray-clad mail carriers comes to us three weeks later than it was sent. Our special delivery letters are slower coming than the German payments on our allied debts. One fellow received a pair of baby shoes the other day that had been ordered for him 17 years ago. Congested mails was the reason ascribed for the speedy service. Like the twinkling stars (not of the Broadway variety) the lights in the dormitories come and go. The Mazdas vacillate and oscillate at all hours of the night, thereby throwing a considerable amount of strain upon the optical organs of the weary students. The only good resulting from this peculiar brand of monkey-shines on the part of the static juice is to inculcate a new line of choice epithets in the vocabularies of the denizens of the dormitories. One of the chief causes of complaint is that no studying can be accomplished during the intervals of darkness. (This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.) A LOST ART Consider, if you please, the old and familiar phrase, “reading, writing and arithmetic.” This was the rule by which most of our fathers’ primary education was measured. By observation, inexperienced though it may be, they were well measured by this rule and have not been found wanting. Examining this phrase a little more closely and see if the rule holds as good at the present time. Using the word WRITING for example, it would seem, judging from the various forms and styles of handwriting of the majority of young people today, handwriting is becoming, if not already, a lost art, which can be of no greater asset to a young man or young woman, throughout their college life. Bringing the subject still closer home, and using Davidson College as an example, how many men of the faculty and student body can write a full page of letter-head size paper, and make it presentable? Davidson College claims to be an institution of higher learning and so it is, but judging from some of the specimens of handwriting of some men who have gone out from its classrooms and noting typical examples of penmanship of each class at the present time, it would appear that we are sorely in need of an addition of the copy-book, writing course and writing instructor to teach the majority of men, here in Davidson, HOW TO WRITE. There are a number of men in college who can write a respectable hand and is presentable anywhere, but the majority of men and students at Davidson could easily be out-classed in this line by a grammar school or high school pupil. The fact that some courses require strict note-taking and the students have become careless in this way has been attributed partly to deficiency. Whatever the conditions may be here at Davidson and elsewhere, the art of handwriting is certainly on the decline and is badly in need of revival. It is to be hoped that all who read this little criticism will accept it and soon come to the realization of the fact that to write well, is worthwhile and an asset, and the lost art can be revived. J. H. P. In behalf of the Student Body, The Davidsonian welcomes President W. J. Martin back to the campus. For twelve years Doctor Martin has been pilot of the institution—a twelve years of unparalleled advancement along every line. For six weeks Doctor Martin has fought a winning fight against a serious attack of pneumonia and has now recovered sufficiently to come home once more. The Davidsonian extends its best wishes and hopes for a complete recovery in the near future. That of course, is detrimental to the mental welfare of the future politicians, ministers, presidents, and lawyers of the United States. And as for Davidson mud, let bad enough alone! That particular feature of our campus life has caused more grumblings, mutterings and disgruntled expressions than all the reviews and examinations strung together. Then too, the Davidson student body has a faculty and board of high moguls who were never young themselves and can never understand the inner workings of an undergraduate’s heart. They cannot see just why the typical Davidsonian would like to kick his heels to the syncopated blues of a jazz band or have two holidays per week, or have special trains furnished free gratis for nothing, providing special accommodations for all football games played away from the hill. They have the campus graded instead of providing walks and force us to undergo divers lectures and talks that are branded as essential to the making of a genuine collegian. And they wonder why the average student, whatever he may be and look like, complains at all. But to dive right down to the bottom of this bottomless pool of unsound thought, one might discover the hidden fount of the complaints that permeate the life on this campus. It is simply this, every student of physics or law, or any such art or science, knows that matter cannot be consumed, whatever goes up must come down and whatever goes in must come out. Thus, our handsome young man on the campus, being fed on the manna of classroom proceedings and various other methods of scholastic instillation of knowledge, proceeds to get full every once in a while, or frequently as the case may be. Then he pops off his surplus steam and energy in the form of meaningless and vague complaints against everything in general and nothing in particular. By doing so he harms no one, accomplishes no good and is happy in the meanwhile. Why bother him?