THE DAVIDSONIAN
Vol. XII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 6, 1924 No. 8

Greensboro Wildcats
College is Host to Eighth Semi-Annual Meet of Press Association
This College Represented by Four Delegates from Publications
ADDRESS BY JOHNSTON
Business Sessions and Social Functions Make an Enjoyable Three-Day Meet
(By Frederick Smith)

Davidson was selected as the place of the next meeting of the North Carolina Press Association at the eighth semi-annual meeting of this organization, which was held at Greensboro College for Women, October 30th, 31st, and November 1st. Almost all of the colleges of the state were represented by 33 delegates, who enjoyed to the utmost the enjoyable program of business sessions and social functions. C. F. Smith, W. E. Milton, and Wirt Branch were the representatives of The Davidsonian, and H. D. Burke was the representative of The Davidson College Magazine. Greensboro College and North Carolina College for Women joined with one another in entertaining the delegates during their three days’ stay. In addition to the business sessions, a reception, a banquet, and a luncheon were given to the guests. Several interesting addresses were heard, that of Professor Gerald Johnston, head of the department of journalism in the University of North Carolina, being perhaps the most interesting.

The first session was held Thursday evening in the Emerson Society hall of Greensboro College. After the invocation by Dr. Turrentine, Miss Ruth Hoyle, of G. C. W., welcomed the delegates on behalf of the college. The response was made by L. R. Vann, of Wake Forest. Following this, an informal reception was given by the staff of The Message, the publication of G. C. W., in the Odell Memorial Hall. Delicious refreshments and favors, suggestive of Hallowe'en, were served after the delegates had been received. The entire delegation then repaired to the big auditorium.

(Continued on page 7)

Debaters Selected for Emory Meet in Atlanta
Wharton, Hollingsworth, and Williams Represent Davidson—Ratchford Alternate

On Thursday night, October 30th, the preliminaries for the Emory-Davidson debate were held in Shearer Hall. Those successful in the try-outs were D. B. Wharton, A. H. Hollingsworth, and C. W. Williams, with B. U. Ratchford as alternate. The query was, Resolved, That the Sterling-Towner bill should be passed by the next Congress. This is also to be the query for the regular debate which is to be held in Atlanta on December 6th. The debate with Emory last year was held at Queens College, on the question of German Reparation, and was won by Davidson. This was a triangular debate between Wake Forest, Emory, and Davidson, resulting in a victory with Emory and a defeat by Wake Forest.

All of the debaters chosen this year have had previous experience. Hollingsworth was a member of the team which was victorious over Trinity last year. He is a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon honorary forensic fraternity and has been recognized for some time as a debater of no mean ability. It is to be expected that he will bear the brunt of the argument. Wharton, who is also a member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, is another experienced debater.

(Continued on page 6)

College Will Fittingly Observe Armistice Day
James A. Lockhart of Charlotte and Dr. Richards Will Speak Here

Appropriate exercises, commemorating both the founding of Davidson College and the signing of the Armistice, will be held next Tuesday; a fitting program having been drafted for the occasion by a special committee on arrangements. The exercises will open with a military review and parade on the drill ground, in which the Davidson College R. O. T. C. will play a conspicuous and important role. This will start promptly at 9:00 o'clock, and during the hour to be devoted to the drill, the Davidson band will render a number of appropriate musical offerings.

Following the military parade, the entire student body and townspeople will assemble in Shearer Hall, where they will listen to three interesting and inspiring speakers. The first of the three addresses will be delivered by James A. Lockhart, of Charlotte, who will be introduced by Captain George L. Weems, head of the R. O. T. C. department. Mr. Lockhart is a prominent lawyer, a member of the North Carolina Bar Association, and has been both a distinguished statesman and patriot. He was a member of the North Carolina General Assembly from 1905 to 1907, and a state senator in 1909. In 1907, he became a trustee of the University of North Carolina. During the war, he served in various capacities.

(Continued on page 3)

Lucian Wells
At times his driving off-tackle runs could not be stopped.

In Memoriam
Greetings:

Whereas, it has pleased Almighty God in His all-wise providence to remove from our midst on the twenty-second day of October, nineteen hundred twenty-four, our beloved friend and classmate, John Stodeill McNair, therefore be it

Resolved:
First, That the Junior Class extends to his family and friends their most heartfelt sympathy.
Second, That we do cherish and honor his memory as a devoted Christian gentleman and that Davidson College has lost an honored and esteemed son.
Third, That we do deeply feel the loss of one whose life was an example of Christian devotion and fellowship and that we do bow in humble submission to Him who doeth all things well.
Fourth, That a copy of these resolutions be sent to the bereaved members of his family, The Florida Times-Union, The Davidsonian, and be entered upon the records of the Junior Class.

(Signed)
M. E. Miller,
Roland Parker,
F. L. Hudson,
October 28, 1924,
Committee.

Dr. Fraser Speaks to College Students at Vesper Service Sunday
President of Queens College Heard by Large Assemblage
SPEAKS ON MANHOOD
Cites Knox, Luther, Wesley, and Wilson for Having Taken up Tasks of Humanity

Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens College, took as his text the 13th and 14th verses of the second chapter of II Kings, in addressing the Y. M. C. A. Vesper Service Sunday night. The text chosen was, “He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from his hand, and went back, and stood by the bank of Jordan; and he took up the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, ‘Where is the Lord God of Elijah?’”Waters 1s “God never brings two lives together without some purpose to be carried out by their association; Elijah and Elisha were brought together by God, as were Moses and Joshua, that the one might be better prepared to take up the burdens of the other when he left the world. We are brought into contact with big men in life, that by association with them we may be able to take up the mantles God causes our association with them to do,” said the speaker.

Younger’s Machine Deprives Techmen of Seeming Victory by Flashy Aerial Game

Davidson Outplays State in Three Quarters—Tech’s Weight Tells

LAIRD’S TOE FEATURES

Black and Hendrix Tear off Sixty-four Yards on Passes for Davidson Touchdown

Tollie Thompson Speaks Before Crowded Audience

Former Davidson Man Draws Large Crowds—Seminary Quartette is Feature Tuesday Morning

As Saturday's sun sank behind the Pinehurst sandhills, a little team of fighting Wildcats uncovered a perfect aerial attack in the last six minutes of the game that swept the great Wolfpack before it for 72 yards, overcoming a seven-point lead and tying North Carolina State College 10-10. Outweighing the Davidson forwards by 22 pounds to the man, the heavy Tech team had battered and bucked its way to a 10-3 lead in the preceding quarter when suddenly the brainy Davidson quarter changed his tactics in the last few minutes and started from the Davidson 28-yard line an attack that bewildered the heavy Engineers.

The greatest comeback in recent years of North Carolina football started when Black, standing almost within the shadows of the Davidson goal posts, sent the ball gliding through the air to Jim Hendrix, running to the east sidelines. At full speed, Hendrix swept on diagonally down toward the State goal line before the encouraging crowd of Davidson supporters, Captain Davidson sending a would-be tackler sprawling to the ground and Hendrix taking full advantage of his interference raced on past all except the Tech safety man who jammed him into the sidelines after a total gain of 47 yards. Covington was sent in and an end run tried with no success.

FLAKE LAIRD

Sappenfield’s pass to Cox, sending Black down the west side of the field, shot him a pass which placed the ball on State's eight-yard marker. Hendrix drove himself through the center of the State line for all but half a yard of the eight remaining, the lithe Davidson back being stopped by inches.

Davidson Man Business Manager of Smart Set

Professor Dendy Leaves Fifteenth to Take up Duties With Popular Magazine

Professor F.L.L. Dendy, professor of public speaking and assistant in English, has received an offer as business manager of “Smart Set” and will leave for New York on the 15th of this month. Mr. Dendy will take up his new work on January 1st, the month and a half from now until then being put in training. Mr. Dendy has been at Davidson since the fall of 1923, when he came as professor of public speaking. At that time he was pressed into service, taking over two sections of Freshman English. Since then he has been assistant professor of English. Professor Dendy is well fitted for such work because he came to Davidson from the business world. Not only on the campus but in the social life of the village, Mr. and Mrs. Dendy will leave a gap. Professor Wachter, of Richmond, Va., is to take up the work. Professor Wachter has done much work along the lines of speaking and lecture work and is well prepared for such work. He is a graduate of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. It was through the influence of Dr. Walter Lingle, president of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College, that a substitute was procured at such short notice.

Wildcat Tackle Whose Toe Was One of Biggest Factors in 10-10 Tie With State