FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON _ Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 2, 1924

WILDCATS LICK BLUESTOCKINGS BY SCORE 15-3

Some Wonderful Examples of Faith in Africans Cited by Rev. R. F. Bedinger
Missionary Who Has Served in Dark Continent for Thirteen Years Makes Appeal for Medical Missionaries in Four Talks to JIM HENDRIX

Hendrix and Sappenfield Break Through South Carolinians Lines for Long Gains
Davidson Comes Back Strong in Second Quarter and Speedy Backs Dart Through Opponents for Touchdown—Red and Black Students Attend Game in Body and Davidson Students—Big Attendance at Vesper Services

Rev. R. F. Bedinger, missionary to Africa, delivered a forceful and impressive message before a large number of students at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening. A graduate of Hampden-Sidney in the class of 1907, Mr. Bedinger has been at work in Africa for 13 years, and his address consisted of incidents which during his work have impressed upon him the great power of God as shown among the people of Africa.

“If I were to take a text this evening,” began the missionary, “I would take the words of that old song, ‘There is power, power, wonder-working power, in the blood of the Lamb.’”

Three stories of his experience, each carrying with it the great impressive fact of the power of the Blood, were related by Mr. Bedinger.

“The first story is that of a little girl, three or four years of age, the daughter of a young minister at Nitoko, a point far out in the mission field. The child was seen playing around her father's study one morning, but after a while she disappeared. The father thought she had gone to her mother, but soon the mother came in without the child, neither parent knowing where the little one had gone.

“The father began a hunt nearby for the child, finally going out among the higher grass and even into the neighboring forests. The mother, in agony over the loss of her babe, was in a tantrum. All day the father searched, but in vain.

“That night there was a storm, a great torrent such as can only occur on the plains of Africa. The baby was still lost. Certainly, if the wild animals had not devoured it before, the infant would be drowned. All night the torrent raged.

“Early the next morning the father resumed the search, while the mother again went into a tantrum, throwing herself on the ground and pulling out her hair. The father returned about 9:00 o'clock in the morning without the baby.

“A chief of the village came and said he wanted to find the baby by means of witchcraft, calling upon the witch doctor. The father forbade any such action. But the chief went ahead and performed the ceremonies during the remainder of the morning.

“While the performance was at its height the Christian superintendent of the section came into the village, and demanded of the young minister an account for the conduct of the village. The minister assured him that (Continued on page 8)

Stephen Leacock Proves Prowess as Entertainer
Canadian Humorist Lectures Before Crowd of Davidsonians

INTERNATIONAL JOSHER
His Lecture on “Frenzied Fiction” Convulses Audience in Shearer Hall—Critic of Fiction

Everyone who attended the lecture given by Stephen Leacock in Shearer Hall last Tuesday afternoon felt more than fully repaid for their time and the small admission fee that was charged. This Canadian has been referred to time and again as the “great international josher.” He has been making Americans laugh at Canadians, and Canadians laugh at Americans, and both of them laugh at themselves for the past 10 years since he left his chair of political economy at McGill University, Canada’s leading institution of learning.

The subject of Leacock’s lecture was “Frenzied Fiction,” and during the entire program the audience was entertained to a high degree by the satirical guns that were turned loose upon people all over the earth, especially the English “Tommy.” Bits of humor cropped out all during the lecture, keeping the audience laughing and smiling during the whole time. The lecture, as well as most interesting, was both beneficial and instructive, and taught the hearers many things that they did not know before.

Leacock has spent several years in England and the British possessions, studying the lives and customs of the people, and all through his lecture he pulls off bits of humor that are typical of the Englishman and his associates. During his travels he took down information for books which he hoped to write, and which later on came from the printer to entertain the large number of people to whom it was impossible for him to lecture to. Among his best works are: “Behind the Beyond,” “Further Foolishness,” “Nonsense Novels,” and “Sunshine Sketches of a Little Town.”

Upper Classmen Urged to Go Out for Prelims Which Will Be October 20
The Forensic Council, with D. B. Wharton as its president, has already been at work and has made plans for a big year. The Council is composed of two divisions, the Debating division and the Polity division, the former having charge of the intercollegiate debates and the latter charge of the inter-society debates.

The Debating division has now arranged two intercollegiate debates for the new men. The first debate is to be with Emory University, on the 5th of December. The team will be composed of three men who will be chosen at the preliminaries to be held on October 20th. Davidson is to select the query and Emory to choose the sides. The query has already been submitted to Emory and by now the material is in the library and ready for use. All upperclassmen are urged to go out for this debate. In the spring there will be two more intercollegiate debates.

Improvements on Campus Assuming Complete Form
Summer and Fall Activities Tend to Modernize Buildings on the Hill

CHAMBERS SHAPES UP
Work on New Chambers and Other Buildings Combine Beauty and Safety on Campus

Through the summer, work on the south wing of Chambers progressed steadily. The excavations of last spring are the foundations now of a partially completed structure, which upon its completion will be the four hundred thousand dollar administration building. The two lower stories, except for interior finishing, have been completed. The third story is in the process of construction, and the whole is due for occupancy by October 1st; however, the hopes of the students are placed on February 1st, the beginning of the second semester. The structure is of brick and stone, in keeping with the architecture of the three newer dormitories, and is soon to be followed by a central portion housing an auditorium with a seating capacity of 1,500, and a north wing similar in construction to the south wing.

The campus presents a new face to the students returning this year and the promise of an ideal college to the men entering on their first year's experience here. Notable among the additions to last year's picture are the progress on the new Chambers building, repainting of the interior of Shearer Hall, and remodeling of Rumple.To be arranged later: Rumple has been so improved as to lower the fire hazard for those rooming there. Sections of the middle rooms on the second and third floors have been cut away to form halls leading to fire escapes. The shaky banisters on these floors have been replaced by substantial walls, which not only prevent anyone from falling through them, but also decrease the draft which might abet a fire breaking out on these floors. Fire escapes have been attached to both sides and the rear of Rumple. Shearer has fire escapes on the north and south sides. The Armory, remodeled upstairs for classrooms, also has a fire escape on the south side. The rear of Georgia has been remade into a serviceable escape system. Temporary, which now houses Biology, as well as Physics Laboratories, has had the inside stairs rearranged and a fire escape attached. The once dark interior of Shearer is now one of ivory whiteness. The effect is striking and the improvement very noticeable. With the forward call of progress, Davidson is rapidly falling in line with the bettering of her present equipment and the acquirement of new and better facilities.

The Polity division is planning to have the usual Fresh-Soph debates and probably others to be announced later. The Freshman debate last year was a great success and the men of '28 will be given a chance to show their ability. The Stunt Night this year will be on the same line as last year, and everyone that expects to attend will be entertained royally for the better part of two hours. Piggy Martin has already begun working on the program and expects to be issuing parts to different men within a few days. Any men who can act the part of black-faced comedians, Irish and Jewish comedians, jig dancers, singers, and anyone who can play any kind of musical instrument, from a Jew's harp to a bass drum, is asked to see Martin, Woodrow Wilson, or Joe Earnest at once, as the program is to be completed at an early date, and those desiring to participate in the entertainment must report at once. The Stunt Night this year will be held on the 18th of October in Shearer Hall. This is the night before the Lenoir game, and it is thought that there will be a good crowd of old grads and friends on the hill to make the affair a success.

SIGMA UPSILON ELECTS FIVE NEW MEMBERS

The following men were elected to membership in the Sigma Upsilon literary fraternity at the regular meeting held Wednesday night. Four of the newly elected members are from the Senior class and one from the Junior class. Each of the men chosen has shown marked ability in one or more lines of literary endeavor while at Davidson.

Class of 1925:
J. R. Earnest
H. B. Price
J. B. Gallent
R. W. Walker

Class of 1926:
C. F. Smith

Dr. C. M. Richards spent Sunday in Salisbury, N. C. His pulpit was occupied by Dr. Robert Bedinger, of Africa, who delivered two excellent sermons. Dr. Bedinger also made a very interesting talk at the “Y” Sunday afternoon.

Davidson came back in the second half at Asheville Saturday to overwhelm the Presbyterian College of South Carolina team 15-3, as Jim Hendrix swept around the Bluestocking ends and smashed through the line for touchdowns. It was Hendrix's 32-yard run in the third quarter that led to the Sappentfield-Davis pass and touchdown, and it was his 45-yard twisting drive through the entire P. C. team that took the heart out of the South Carolinians as the score leapt to 15-3. Only in the first part of the game did the P. C. squad have a chance against Younger and Tilson’s Red and Black machine. After a long punt struck Sappentfield attempting to play it dead and was recovered by a Presbyterian forward, the South Carolinians made 11 unsuccessful attempts to put the ball over. A place-kick was the only way to a score. With good line interference, Sappentfield drove Hendrix, Sapp, and Black down the field, the half ending too soon for a score. Davidson took the ball from the kick-off in the second half straight into P. C. territory. Legette and Warner exchanged punts evenly. Sam Summers tore into a Southern punt and narrowly missed making a touchdown by inches as Warner dived under him for four consecutive downs, in exchange for a safety. When Davidson got the ball, Hendrix stepped off for 32 yards around left end, placing the ball on the thirty-fifth Presbyterian marker. Captain Davis took Sappentfield’s 20-yard pass away from three Bluestocking backs and raced down the line to the half-yard mark. Black bucked the ball over on the next play and kicked goal, making the score 9-3. After an exchange of punts, Jim Hendrix smashed the Presbyterian left tackle and twisted through the entire backfield for 45 yards and a touchdown. The attempt to kick went wild. Twice following, the Wildcats were deprived of touchdowns by penalties, Lincoln having the ball back of the Presbyterian goal line once and Sappentfield running a punt back 35 yards. The game ended with the ball in Davidson's possession on P. C.’s four-yard line, second down. The Davidson backfield showed great speed and drive while the line allowed no first downs, with three of P. C.’s coming through.

Sweet Singers Are Selected for Glee Club Organization

Preparations are now in full swing for the year’s Glee Club, and from all indications, a champion club is inevitable. The main basis for this statement lies in the fact that Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, to whom last year’s marked success has been rightly attributed, is again going to direct the singers in their efforts. Mrs. Baker is acknowledged as one of the foremost musical directors in the South, and Davidson is indeed lucky to secure her services in training the club. On last Wednesday night, 75 boys were present for the first tryouts and from these, 40 were selected on the ensuing Friday night. Those at present on the club are:

First tenors: McClain, Howard, Singletary, Lockhart, Gray, J. S., Williams, Rogers, Crayton, Russel, Stewart, and Kiser.
Second tenors: Douglas, Brown, Franklin, Wilson, Montgomery, McRae, Hudson, Allison, Purdy, and Hamilton.
First bass: Lawrence, Currie, Wilson, Earnest, Count Davis.