FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 13, 1924

Monk Younger’s Tossers Halted By Bad Weather

Rain and Snow Interferes With First Workout of Squad

FORTY CANDIDATES OUT

Six Letter Men Form Nucleus for Diamond Outfit—Boushee and McPherson on Mound

While Coach Younger is scratching his head over the problem of finding a receiving mate for the hurling staff that
is working out daily, infielders and outfielders are resorting to pep games and gymnasium exercise. In the meantime, every effort
is being made to get the drainage system on Richardson Field into perfect working order so that baseball practice may
assume its rightful proportions. Recent rains and snow have handicapped Coach Monk in his early practice, and the old horsehide
sport is being temporarily held up. The general call for aspirants has not been sounded, Jupiter Pluvius forbidding. However, letter
men from last year's nine, and prospective hurling candidates are working out daily on the few choice high spots and
knolls. It is expected that practice will be begun in earnest by the last of the week.

Younger will have six Varsity men around which to mold his team. Captain Boushee, star twirler of two past seasons,
will lead the Wildcat nine and will be depended upon for a number of Red and Black victories. He is
regarded as one of the best portside hurlers in the state. His judgment is sure, his eye is keen, his
pace is even and calmly regulated, and his arm is good. The student body has confidence in their baseball leader.
The other letter men are Teddie Covington, third sacker of last year’s squad; Sion Alford, keeper of the short position
and a (Continued on page 2)

Height 5’ 9” Weight 165 R. E. (BEENAM) BOGGS Birmingham, Ala. CAPTAIN-ELECT

Ten Charter Members In New Social Fraternity

Pyramid Club Will Move Into Furnished Hall in Louisiana

The organization of the Pyramid Club marks the advent of the second local social fraternity at Davidson this year. The
organization of this group has been under way for some time, and formal recognition was granted by the executive committee.
Members of the club are: W. H. Cromwell, W. A. McCaulay, M. R. Patrick, J. M. Trotter, E. D. Witherspoon,
J. J. Earnhardt, H. C. Lawson, H. D. Burke, J. A. Bouvier, and H. M. Alexander. These men are charter
members of the organization and constitute a good representation (Continued on page 5)

Doctor Fitch Shows Slides of China And Thibet In Stereopticon Lectures

President of Hangchow College Shows Pictures Depicting Chinese Scenes

CHINESE CUSTOMS SHOWN

Stories of Adventure in the Hermit Kingdom Hold Large Audience

Dr. Robert F. Fitch, president of Hangchow Christian College, who visited Davidson during Sunday and Monday, delivered a lecture on
Hangchow and its Environs, at the Y. M. C. A. service Sunday. The service was a combination of the regular
“Y” vesper and the night service of the local Presbyterian Church, and was held in Shearer Hall at 7:00 o'clock.
Dr. Richards presided and C. V. Brown led the song service. The lecture was stereopticon in nature, the pictures being
shown on the front wall of the building.

In introducing his subject, Doctor Fitch gave a few words in regard to his work in Hangchow in relation to
the founding of the college, which took place 25 years ago. Pictures were shown of the beautiful bay on which
Hangchow is situated. The sites of the beautiful Hangchow Christian College were also seen. The speaker then took his audience
to some of the old and historic spots around Hangchow and Shanghai. He showed the Buddhist temples, the torture chambers
which are prominent features of the Chinese religious ceremonies in worship of their gods. Buildings erected centuries before America was
discovered, with the ancient tales of the natives in regard to their significance, contained interesting and valuable information to the
audience. Doctor Fitch told something of the great national heroes of China, and showed monu- (Continued on page 3)

Davidson And Queens Foster Spanish Night

On the night of March 25th there will be a special program presented by the Spanish Club of Davidson, in
conjunction with the Spanish Club from Queens. Miss West, of the Queens Spanish Department, says that there will be 15
Queens girls on the scene, and the Spanish Club will arrange some entertainment for the girls. The purpose of this
Spanish night is partly to secure funds to defray the expenses of the Spanish debate which is to take place
a little before Easter holidays. Professor Fleagle has been very diligent in getting up a good program for that night
and it is hoped that a large crowd will turn out and make it a success. Unless there are further
changes to be made, the program will be as follows:

1—The Spanish National Hymn, by Queens Girls.
2—Child’s Story in Spanish, by Jane Fleagle.
3—El Abogado Patelin, a Spanish comedy, by the Girls of Queens.
4—A Song, La Bandera, by members of Davidson Spanish Club.
5—Borinquen, a song, by Watt McCain.
6—El Espejo, a comedy, by the Spanish Club.
7—Cancion de Manana.
8—La Terruca, by the Spanish Club.
9—Un Lacito de Amor, an original comedy in Spanish, by W. F. Galloway.
10—La Golondrina, by Davidson String Quartet.
11—A group of Mexican songs by Austin.
12—Alma Mater, by the Girls of Queens.
13—O Davidson, sung in Spanish.

Carolina Volunteers Convenes at Queens

Forty-Seven Delegates From Davidson Register at Student Convention

PRICE MADE TREASURER

Miss Alice Gibbon of Queens Elected President of Organization

The convention was of a devotional character, and was led by Mr. Statt, one of the out-of-college Volunteers. This was
followed, Friday night, by a stereopticon lecture stressing the need of medical missionaries in the various fields, especially in India,
Africa, and China. After the lecture, there was a get-together meeting, which closed the program for that night.

Saturday morning Mr. Robert E. Wilder delivered an address on Why Foreign Missions. Saturday afternoon the election of officers for
the coming year was held. The new officers are: President, Miss Alice Gibbon, Queens; vice-president, John Westbrook, Trinity; secretary, Miss
Virginia Poe, G. C. W.; treasurer, Harry Price, Davidson; editor of The Volunteer, Miss Beatrice McCracken. After an address by
Mr. Montgomery, from China, the Lenoir delegation staged a pageant, The Grim Reaper.

One of the interesting events of the convention was the banquet at the Chamber of Commerce, Saturday night, at which
about 200 delegates were present, including some of the prominent citizens of Charlotte. After the banquet, Mr. Wilder told something
of the history of the Student Volunteer Movement, which originated at Princeton 39 years ago. The first convention was held
under the auspices of D. L. Moody, where there was sent up a prayer that there might eventually be 1,000
Student Volunteers. The movement has since then had a marvelous growth, not only in the United States, but in England
and Scandinavia. From America alone there have been 10,300 Volunteers, and when the other countries are included the grand total
reaches over 14,000. Over 2,000 of these were signed up in the few years immediately following this first convention.It seemed
that only a spark was needed among the students, also assisted by the Spanish-American students. Mr. Wilder and a few
others traveled from one college to another. The president of Princeton, speaking of this movement, said, “Has there ever been
in this place or at any place, in this age or in any age, such an outpouring of God's Spirit
as there is among the students of today, since the Day of Pentecost?” Doctor Fitch, president of Christian College, Hangchow,
spoke of the mission work, as he has seen it in China, and of the conditions and problems in the
city of Hangchow. John Westbrook and Miss Alice Gibbon, delegates from the North Carolina Union to the National Volunteer Council,
which met (Continued on page 2)

BOGGS—CAPTAIN-ELECT

At a banquet Tuesday night in the banquet rooms of the Hotel Charlotte, Ralph E. Boggs, of Birmingham, Ala., was
elected captain of the 1925 basketball team. The banquet was tendered by Coach Monk Younger and the Athletic Association to
the basketball letter men. Captain Davis, McConnell, Boggs, Staley, Laird, Mallory, Beall, Sapp, and Manager J. I. Smith have been
selected as wearers of the basketball “D.” Letters will be awarded at an early date, announces Dr. J. M. Douglas,
Faculty Supervisor of Athletics.

Convention of North Carolina

The annual North Carolina Volunteer Convention met at Queens College, March 7th, 8th, and 9th. The first meeting of the
convention was held 37 years ago by Moody, on the general perspective of foreign mission work.

C. M. (NAPPY) DAVIS
Winston-Salem
RETIRING CAPTAIN

Quips and Cranks Put Into Publisher’s Hands

Special Campus Views Section Features Annual—Year Book Ready in May

With preliminary arrangements completed and material in the hands of the publishers, members of the 1924 Quips and Cranks staff
are exceedingly optimistic about their possibilities for success. The basketball review, the last of the copy to go to the
printers, has been forwarded, and all the cuts and engravings have been made. The Annual will contain approximately 200 pages,
which is a considerable increase over that of last year’s publication. Among the new features will be a special Campus
Views section. (Continued on page 5)

Captain Ellis Issues Call to Cinder Squad

Twenty Men Practice Daily on Richardson Field Oval

STREIBICH LEADS TEAM

Red and Black Squad Schedules Five Dual Meets With S. I. C. Teams

During the spurts of spring weather which have come and gone in the past two weeks, track work has forged
to the front among topics of campus interest. Captain Ellis, who will coach the track squad this season, issued a
call last week, and in response about 20 men turned out on the cinder path. The track remains soggy, and
running is hard, but it is expected to be in first-class shape before the preliminary tryouts, which will be held
about the 22nd.

Seven letter men will furnish the nucleus of the team which will represent Davidson this year in five meets. Hendrix,
Koenig, and Davis seem to have the dashes pretty well sewed up, and Davis is looking good for the 880.
Hendrix and Vance will fill the broad jump position, although Vance is now practicing on the baseball squad. McConnell is
getting into last year’s form on the one-mile run, while McBryde, holder of the two-mile record, is a welcome addition
to the squad, having been unable to race last year. Gracey and Striebich leave no room for worry about the
pole-vault, high-jump, and hurdles, and Gracey will put the shot and perhaps will fill the javelin-thrower's berth left open by
McCombs’ absence. Lindamood is on hand to toss the discus and the shot again, so that field events will be
the strong point of the Red and Black team. (Continued on page 2)

Six National Fraternities Host To Non-Fraternity Men at Week-End Party

Sophomores Make Merry at Feed In Queen City

The entire Sophomore class as a body, together with several especially invited guests, will leave this afternoon for Charlotte to
make merry with the annual Soph banquet, which will be held in the Chamber of Commerce building, at 7:30 p.m.
A committee consisting of I. K. Regen, H. L. Shaw, Frank Hudson, J. A. Minter, and J. A. Bouvier, has
perfected all plans for this, the most riotous celebration in the annals of the Soph classes of Davidson. Guests of
the class will be Professors Arbuckle and Fleagle, Coach W. L. Younger, and Elkins, Hillhouse, McIlwaine, and Christian, representatives of
the three other classes.

Tickets for the banquet have been on sale for some time, with the result that practically every member of ’26
has been primed for a week or more to enjoy himself to the fullest with the proposed eatments and entertainments.
Cars have been provided and it is expected that almost all loyal members of 1926 will be on hand to
get away at the first possible moment so as to arrive at the Queen City in plenty of time. The
program will consist of the class history, short talks from student guests, class poems, and addresses by faculty members, with
toasts all the way between. In addition, there will be musical numbers from the quartet, and many impromptu numbers which
bid to furnish humor for the occasion. Tom Baker, the president of the class, will act as toastmaster, and many
healths will be drunk to the class and the college with the assistance of good Charlotte water. After the banquet,
which will last for some time, (Continued on page 5)

Pan Hellenic Council Sponsors Week-End of Enjoyment for Non-Fraternity Men

FIRST WEEK IN APRIL

Fraternities Extend Special Invitations to All Members of Three Upper Classes

Sponsored by the Pan Hellenic Council, the six national fraternities will be hosts to the non-fraternity men in the three
upper classes and to the members of the faculty and their wives at a house party on the hill the
weekend of April 5th. The small size of the halls and the large number of men in the Freshman class
automatically limits the occasion to the three upper classes. Each chapter, in alphabetical order, has gone down the roster of
the student body and the men will be extended special invitations by the chapter to which their name falls. Yet
the house party is general, and every hall will be at the particular disposal of each and every man in
the three upper classes.

Elaborate preparations are being made to provide entertainment for the guests of the weekend. Not only will the halls be
open but in addition the Pan Hellenic is planning an entertainment of some nature on the campus after the picture
show. The program for Saturday, which is only tentative as yet, will be on this order:

Saturday:
Afternoon: Baseball with Oak Ridge.
Night: Little Old New York.
Campus fete.
General reception in fraternity halls.

Though this outline may not be followed to the letter, the Pan Hellenic will see to it that there is
entertainment suitable to the moment. (Continued on page 2)
