THEDAVI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XI DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 10, 1924 No. 25

Interest Increases As Speaking Nears; Four Days of Fun In Store For Visitors
Piggy Martin Has Bag of Tricks to Loosen—Dramatic and Glee Clubs to Vie With Field Events
CABARET SCENE IN GYM
Program Promises to Exceed Even the Record-Breaker of Last Year

Members of the Junior Class, under the direction of Piggy Martin, have completed plans for one of the most stupendous
“Junior Speaking” celebrations ever held in Davidson. The tentative program, as outlined by the committee in charge of arrangements, contains
an unlimited variety of features; and with the large number of visitors that are expected for the occasion, the celebration
promises to be both unique and interesting.

The fireworks will open Thursday night, April 17, with the usual Junior Oratorical contest. On Friday afternoon, the athletic field
will be the scene of action, with an exciting baseball game featuring the Davidson Fresh vs. an aggregation from Charlotte
High. Friday night, the visitors will be entertained by the Dramatic and Glee Clubs, in a joint performance at Shearer
Hall. Friday night has been selected by the committee as Formal Night, and all students, whose wardrobes permit, will appear
in formal attire.

The Speaking celebration will reach its zenith on Saturday, when a full day of interesting events will be offered for
the amusement of the guests on the hill. The first of these events is a track meet in the morning.
This will be followed in the afternoon by an interesting game of baseball, which will bring the Davidson freshmen into
action against the Gastonia High School team. Saturday night will bring the biggest event of the whole affair, and it
is at this time that the Junior Class will stage an extravagantly-arranged “Roman Circus” in the gymnasium. The circus promises
to even (Continued on page 8)

Six Men Win Places In Speaking Preliminaries
Ray, Martin, Hopkins, Wharton, Gibbs and Carr all Present Speeches of Real Merit

The preliminaries for the Junior oratorical contest were held last Thursday night, April 3rd. Six of the eight men who
contested for places in the finals were chosen. The judges for the preliminaries were Professors A. Currie, E. J. Erwin,
and Dr. T. W. Lingle. The finals will be held on Thursday night of Junior Week. The speakers chosen for
this final contest were A. C. Ray, A. M. Martin, Fred Hopkins, D. B. Wharton, L. B. Gibbs, and Jim
Carr.

Archie Ray’s subject was The Passing of the Caliphate. In this address the speaker gives us a resume of the
contributions of the leading nations of the world as contrasted to the contributions of Turkey in the past and in
the future. A. M. Martin’s address was entitled Best for Test. In this oration “Piggy” points out how history has
proved that Christianity is best by test, while he goes on to prove it is best for test. Fred Hopkins
spoke on Brotherhood. He showed the need for more social work in the church. D. B. Wharton’s oration was entitled
The American Malady. Ben considers shallow-mindedness and superficiality as the American Malady. The subject of Gibbs’ speech was Noblesse (Continued
on page 6)

Wildcat Debaters Meet Emory And Trinity Speakers

Davidson's forensic stars are primed for their encounter with Emory University’s debating team at Queens College, Friday evening at 8
p.m. For several weeks the Davidson and Emory debaters have been hard at work, and the coming debate promises to
be exceptionally close and exciting. The team that is to be pitted against the Emory debaters is composed of L.
D. Elkins, W. M. Cox, and P. J. Story. Elkins and Cox are debaters of experience, both of them having
been members of the team that defeated Trinity last year; while Story is a newcomer of much ability in the
art.

Emory’s team, according to reports from the Atlanta institution, represents the best that the university has; and fully capable of
acquitting themselves in fine style. A large crowd of Davidson students are expected to attend the contest, which is to
be the first between the two schools.

Three days after this debate, a separate team composed of D. B. Wharton, L. C. Little, and D. B. Walthall
will meet Trinity and argue the same question. Wharton and Walthall both served as (Continued on page 6)

Deputation From Queens Heard at “Y” on Sunday
Cox and Elkins With Misses Rogers and Gibbons Give Talks on Truth, Service and Love

The Y. M. C. A. vesper service last Sunday was conducted by Warren M. Cox and Liston D. Elkins, members
of the Senior Class of Davidson, and the Misses Caroline Rogers and Alice Gibbon of Queens College. Mr. Williams, secretary
of the “Y” introduced the speakers.

Warren Cox, the first speaker, took as his subject “Truth.” He opened with a quotation of Demosthenes, “What we have
in us of the image of God is the love of truth and justice.” “There are two opposing forces,” said
the speaker, “error and truth. All extremes in any direction may be classed as error and our task is to
find the broad middle pathway of truth. The three greatest things in life are love, service and truth, and truth
is the foundation of the other two.” Cox then pointed out the two classes (Continued on page 7)

PIGGY MARTIN SELECTS MAGAZINE STAFF

At a recent election, A. M. Martin was elected over J. R. Earnest as editor of the Magazine for next
year. Martin received a large majority on the first ballot. The staff, with the exception of business manager who has
not been chosen, is as follows:

A. M. Martin _____ Editor-in-Chief
J. R. Earnest_____ Associate Editor
R. W. Walker___Cap and Bells Ed.
A. F. Simpson ______ Fiction Editor
E. P. O’Connor -___- Poetry Editor
D. B. Wharton ______ Essay Editor
J. R. Gudger -____ Exchange Editor
H. C. Lawson...-Associate Editor
A. H. Hollingsworth_Associate Ed.

RETIRING EXECUTIVES

Carolina Defeats Davidson In First Spanish Debate

Last Friday evening Davidson College and the University of North Carolina met in what is believed to be the first
inter-collegiate debate conducted in a foreign language in North Carolina. The entire debate was in Spanish. The subject was, Resolved,
That Spain should grant autonomy to Catalonia, that is causing quite a bit of trouble in Spain at present. A
movement is on foot to obtain home rule for Catalonia, and this is opposed by the Madrid government. This is
a subject

The judges of the debate were Miss West, of Queens College, Miss Laughlin, and Mr. Valera, of Central High School
of Charlotte. The negative, upheld by the team from Carolina, received a two to one vote ofW.T. (TED) JONES President
of the Y.M.C.A. The judges. The affirmative was supported by P. F. Causey, A. T. Rowe, and J. B. Gallant,
of Davidson. The history of the question and the argument that the Catalonians are a superior race to the Castilians
was the second speaker for the affirmative, spoke on the difference in language and customs between the Catalonians and the
Castilians.

Wildcats Outpointed By Gobblers In First Meet On Richardson Field

Virginians Outclass Red and Black in Track Events and Split Even in the Field

Norris Trophy Election To Be Held On Fifteenth

GRACEY INDIVIDUAL STAR

Davis, Laird, and Boggs Win in Preliminaries Thursday—Covington and Vance Runners-up

Culbreth Leads V.P.I. Attack Winning Three First Places—Roberts Wins Two Firsts

In the vote held last Thursday to determine the three men between whom votes would be cast in the final
election for the Norris Trophy Award, C. M. Davis, G. F. Laird, and R. E. Boggs, Jr., were selected. Runners
up in the election were J. M. C. Covington and Harry Vance. The election to determine the winner of the
trophy will be held during the student body meeting on next Thursday, April 15th.

In the first track meet of the season, staged on Richardson field last Thursday afternoon, V.P.I. defeated Davidson by the
score of 76 1/2 to 49 1/2. Many students came to watch the meet. V.P.I. took first places in nine
of the fourteen events, five of the nine being dashes or runs, while the five first places made by Davidson
contenders were mainly in the other events. Gracey was the individual star of the meet, scoring a total of 20
points. Gracey is a hurdler, jumper, and weight man, and his points came from first places in the 120-yard hurdles,
shot-put, and javelin, second in the high jump, and third in the broad jump.

The trophy, presented by Norris, Inc., of Atlanta, Ga., will be awarded during commencement week to the man who is
voted by the student body to be the best all-around athlete in Davidson. The awarding of the trophy will be
under the direction of the Norris Athletic Trophy Committee composed of Frank E. Lowenstein, of Atlanta, Ga., as ex-officio chairman,
with the Director of Athletics, and the President of the Y.M.C.A.

Covington Chosen To Lead Class of '27 Next Session

The elections of class officers for the rising Sophomore Class were held last week. W. T. Covington was elected as
the president of the class of '27. Covington is popular among the fellows both of his own class and those
of the other classes. He is alert in college activities, being at present vice-president of his class, and he well
deserves the office. There were several other nominees for the office, Covington winning over Woods and Pinckney on the final
ballot. For vice-president, J. W. Keerans was elected. Keerans is another popular and well-liked student among his classmates. He is
at present secretary and treasurer of the class. In the final ballot, Broyles and Pinckney also were run. The final
elections for secretary and treasurer will be held next week.

Non-Fraternity Week-End Proves Success; Pretty Girls and Gym Reception Feature

All Upperclassmen Unite to Make Week-End Pleasurable Time for all

Fraternity Houses Scene of Youthful Gaiety and Frolic—Event to be Permanent

Despite the inclemency of the weather, the Non-Fraternity Week-End of April 5th and 6th proved a success from every standpoint.
Many girls were on the hill both Saturday and Sunday to enliven the campus with their presence, and several entertainments
were put on for their especial benefit and pleasure. This affair was the first of its kind at Davidson for
some years, the plan having been discarded back in 1917 or earlier. To Doctor Arbuckle goes credit for reviving this
delightful custom of social meetings by both fraternity and non-fraternity men. With the assistance of the Pan-Hellenic Council, he made
plans for re-establishing this custom which has been the source of much enjoyment in the past. From all indications, it
will be a permanent fixture on the Davidson program for years to come.

An out-of-doors festival had been planned for Saturday evening but the continued rain made it impossible to spread the feast
of delectable goodies under the trees on the campus. The Japanese lanterns were transferred to the gymnasium and a long
table placed in the central portion. Such an array of things to eat has seldom been seen at Davidson, and
after the inroads of the girlies and their escorts, more than 12 baskets of fragments were left. Nothing remained except
to send out a call for the Freshmen who acted as a general wrecking crew and cleaned up the remnants
in short order. A general reception was held during the progress of the indoor picnic and afterwards at the various
halls, where the members of the faculty mingled with the students and their guests.

Hillhouse and Hendrix Represent Student Body

President and President-Elect of Student Body Selected to Attend Chapel Hill Convention

A. M. Hillhouse and J. M. Hendrix are in attendance on the third annual convention of the Southern Federation of
College Students now being held at the University of North Carolina. These delegates were selected by the student council to
serve as Davidson's first delegates to this convention. The federation, organized at Georgia Tech in 1922, has for its purpose
the development of college spirit, athletics, publications, and the creation of a closer fellowship among the southern colleges. This is
Davidson's first year as a member of the federation. Her delegates will raise the question of paying college athletes. Davidson’s
opinion on the matter is widely known and will be strongly voiced by her representatives at the convention. Since this
phase of athletics concerns almost every southern college, the discussion of the question of remuneration for athletic work will doubtless
effect a beneficial development in college athletics. The Southern Federation of College Students, when but two years old, was composed
of sixteen of the leading southern colleges. It has grown considerably during the past year and hopes to include all
of the leading educational institutions in the south within the next few years. The present session of the convention has
a full attendance.
