THEDAVI FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., SEPTEMBER 25, 1924

Dr. A. S. Johnson of Charlotte Inspires Maxwell Chambers Hotel Men With Splendid Talk at “Y” Vespers — Loyal Friend
of Davidson Speaks Heart to Heart

ALL NEW MEN ATTEND

“For What Is Your Life?” is Theme of Sunday Address to Students

Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was the speaker at the vesper service last
Sunday evening. Dr. Johnson is a loyal friend of Davidson and was honored with the Doctor of Divinity degree by
the college in June, 1923.

“I want to speak to you from James 4:14,” said Dr. Johnson in beginning, “and that particular phrase ‘For what
is your life?’ Perhaps you say that is a trite statement, but we must deal with trite things, for we
are facing them day by day.” He continued by asking again, “What is your life?” and explained that James had
in mind “What does life consist of, what is the outlook and how is one going to spend that life?”

“There are some men,” said the speaker, “who, like the Stoics, look on life as something superficial and indefinite. We
cannot accept such doctrines, however, because of our conscience and because the Word of God tells us that we are
not here to dream or to drift.”

“Then there are others,” he continued, “who go to the school of the infidel. These go so far as to
say there is no God. We cannot destroy a formula in mathematics by saying it isn’t true, neither can we
get rid of God by denying Him.”

He then spoke of a third class who go to the school of the world. He said these are the
ones who were looking forward to getting all they could out of life. He gave a very striking illustration of
one man whose only object in life was the accumulation of worldly goods.

“There are others,” Dr. Johnson said, “who go to the school of materialism. They try to account for man and
life elsewhere than in the Word of God. What is your life? The only way for a person to find
the answer to that question is in the school of Christ. Many people do not know the reality of life,
but in the school of Christ we find that life is real, that our lives are for a definite purpose.
Then in Christ's school we learn that life is service. We do not want an education to fit us so
that we can gain everything in the world. We want our education so that we will be better fitted to
glorify God with our lives in service. Last of all, life is Christ. No one really lives outside of Christ
for in Him is life.”

He ended by bringing a straightforward challenge for everyone to go forward in their lives for Christ.

The music was led by Simil Bryant, and special music was furnished by a quartette composed of Lockhart, Hudson, Wilson,
and Fitts. A.M. Martin read the scripture and Harry Price and Hayden Hollingsworth led in prayer.

Junior Speaking Profits by the Lyceum Numbers

Four of Piedmont Bureau’s Star Acts to be Presented to Students

If an early start means anything in the success of “Junior Speaking,” then the class of '26 is going to
make everyone sit up and take notice with their stupendous celebration next spring! The boys of '26 have started to
work with vim and vigor, and during the past week have put into active operation a plan that will finance
their spring festivities. They are sponsoring the appearance of four of the Piedmont Lyceum Bureau's star acts in Shearer Hall
at different times during the school term, and the proceeds from (Continued on page 7)

TOM BAKER

This fighting Wildcat broke up two punts in his first game at tackle.

Enrollment This Year Is Largest Ever for College

The Davidson student body is steadily growing in numbers. This record-breaking enrollment was 615, exceeding last year's total by 40.
Every effort has been made to accommodate the applicants for admission, but many were turned away. The number allowed to
enter taxes the facilities of the college to the very utmost.

The enrollment by classes shows the usual proportion. The Freshman class leads with a total of approximately 260 men. This
is the largest first-year class in the history of the institution, surpassing the record set by last year’s men, who
opened with 240. The Sophomore class numbers 175, the Junior 82, and the Senior 83, giving a total of 340
regular upper-classmen. There are 12 special students enrolled and two candidates for the degree of M.A.

The geographical distribution of the students tells the story of Davidson College's strength in the Southern States. North Carolina supplies
more than half the number with 364 men, South Carolina leads the remaining Southern States with 57. Georgia comes a
close third with 55, and Alabama fourth with 26. Tennessee has 25 representatives in the student body. Virginia 17, Florida
16, Mississippi 13, West Virginia 12, Kentucky 7, Louisiana 6, Texas 1, Arkansas 2, other states 5, and foreign countries
6.

The division of courses finds the A.B.2 in the lead with 243 candidates, B.S.1 has 194 enrolled, B.S.2 has 114,
and A.B.1, the purely classic course, has 39. There are 11 Pre-Medical students and the above-mentioned pair of M.A. students.

Of the students who have declared their chosen profession, 92 have designated the ministry; 91 plan to enter business, and
78 will become students of medicine. The fields of engineering, teaching, and the law exert a smaller appeal and draw
from the college 26, 31, and 39 respective entrants. Chemistry and journalism each have 10 probable entrants, and farming and
dentistry end the list with five apiece. The remaining 229 of the student body are undecided as to what field
of endeavor they will enter on leaving college.

Holds Informal Reception To Welcome Townspeople

Sparkling Speeches Made by Several Davidson Professors

STUDENTS ENJOY AFFAIR

New Establishment will Fill Long-Felt Want in Town of Davidson

The Maxwell Chambers Hotel held an informal reception Thursday evening to welcome townspeople. Approximately 400 persons were present and inspected
Davidson’s new hotel. Before serving the refreshments, a short prayer was offered. Then everyone spent a social hour drinking punch,
inspecting the building and equipment, and discussing the latest stride toward improving the college town.

A number of speeches were made during the evening. Mr. Wilson, a former Davidson student, then a business man, postmaster,
and finally a hotel proprietor, has been engaged in the hotel business at Black Mountain and Charlotte the past few
years and is now the proprietor of the new Maxwell Chambers. He told of some very amusing experiences he had
during his former trips to this town. He emphasized the fact that his institution has not been organized to offer
competition to the various business establishments already in town but to fill a long-felt need in Davidson.

Dr. C. R. Harding spoke after the chairman. He showed what a boon the dining room will be for the
wives of Davidson.Now the family can take a meal at the new hotel, a holiday from the kitchen. Mrs. Hamilton
and Mrs. Lingle both expressed their appreciation. They explained that the present necessity of having to entertain all of the
numerous visitors who come to Davidson in their homes was often very inconvenient and the hotel will relieve them to
a large extent of their duties as hostesses. Dr. Hood described the hotel as a "monument to the gastric propensities
of man."

(Continued on page 6)

Coach Tilson Issues Call for Track Men
Fifty Candidates Answer Ready as Tilson and Gracey Urge Strict Training

Coach Tex Tilson called a meeting of all track men in Shearer Hall, Monday night, and about 50 men, including
the Freshmen candidates, were present. He got the men together to give them a little advice, and to discuss track
matters with them. He impressed upon the minds of the men the fact that a man would have to work
this year if he expected to make the track team, for no man would have a chance if he did
not put everything he had in him in the work, and that he must work every day. Coach Tilson said
that there was too much loafing on the team last year, and this was not to be allowed this year.
He told the men that they would have to quit running to Charlotte every other day, and do some training.
After Tilson’s talk, Gracey made a few remarks. He also stressed the fact that the dining hall occasionally and give
the ladies a break.

He gave several instances where men did not know that they could perform on the track at all until they
had entered an inter-class meet, and had shown form that later won them their letters. Coach Tilson is trying to
arrange a schedule of five meets, and the State meet. The cross-country team is also being chosen, and if he
has any success with it, he will send the team to the cross-country meet this fall, either at Carolina or
at Raleigh. Dr. Douglass has left it up to Coach Tilson, and if the

(Continued on page 6)

Christening of Richardson Field Sees Defeat of Christians by Wildcats 14-0
NAPPY DAVIS

Muddy Field Hampers Men of Both Teams in Game
ELON IS OUTPLAYED
Nick Sappenfield Makes Great Run of 72 Yards Through Entire Elon Team

In the initial game of the 1924 football season staged here Saturday, the Wildcats triumphed over the Elon team, 14
to 0. It was the Christening game for Richardson Field, the new home of North Carolina college football. The muddy
condition of the field slowed up the offense of both teams and probably was of much value to the Christian
aggregation. A 72-yard return of an Elon punt by Nick Sappenfield in the third quarter scored the second touchdown for
the Red and Black and proved to be the feature play of the fracas. After a series of end runs
and off-tackle plays, Wells, star-tackle, blocked Cardwell’s punt. Wells carried the ball over for the first touchdown. The final score
came in the last period when an Elon back was overpowered in the end zone, as he attempted to punt
from the Maroon and Gold end zone. Tom Baker, playing “heads-up” football, recovered the ball for the second touchdown.

The ball was in Davidson's possession for most of the time, the Christians gaining possession only twice during the first
and third quarters. The Davidson Dramatic Club is planning to make this year one of the best years in its
history. Plans are being made to tour the western part of North Carolina, about the middle of the year. Fifteen
new actors have signed up for work in the club this year. Piggy Martin, president of the club, will again
appear on the stage with his unusual ability to entertain the audience.

At a meeting last Monday morning, 15 men responded to the call of the Dramatic Club for new men who
wish to take part in this work for the coming year. Of these 15 new men, much is expected. A
large part of the number have had experience in acting, stage carpentry, stage lighting, and scene painting. With the old
men who have turned out, this is ample material to stage a spice of the dramatic life. Despite the bad
weather, a good crowd was present. Running account of the game by quarters, as taken down on the sidelines, follows:

First Quarter
Davidson kicks off to Elon at the north end of the field. Elon fails to gain and punts. Davidson makes
first down on Wells’ run; ball goes over with one yard to go. Elon forced to punt and blocked but
Baker blocks punt again and recovers on Elon’s 10-yard line. Wells carries the ball over in two plays. Try-for-point missed.

Second Quarter
Elon's kickoff, Sappenfield goes around end from scrimmage, 17 yards. On exchange of punts, Elon gets the ball on Davidson's
33-yard line. Christians keep the attack in Davidson territory but are unable to gain consistently; fumbled several times for losses.
Leggette’s good punting sends the Elon team back twice. At no time is the Red and Black goal line in
serious danger, though this was the best Elon

(Continued on page 2)

A Davidsonian Subscription means all the campus news in the SOUTH’S LIVEST COLLEGE WEEKLY
(Name here)
(and address)
(and $2.50 to T. C. McSwain, Box 26, Davidson, N. C.)
