THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 4, 1924

Feeling of Davidson Students Grows Rampant as News of Victory Received

Telegrams have a way of throwing gloom all about. At least, a large per cent of the human race never
get quite used to telegrams. But it was not exactly gloom, or fear either, that hit the campus last Thursday
afternoon when the message from Durham said, “Trinity 10, Davidson 0,” and a few comments. A low, Wildcat yow! began
to be heard as the tense moments of waiting ran into minutes. The corrected message read 10-7; the growl grew
louder, the wildcat rose to a half-crouching position, and every man on the hill yowled, “Fight ’em, gang! Fight ’em!”
And the Wildcat growled a little louder, and moved around a little, the teeth began to show, the eyes to
spit fire.

Plots to burn the town jail were discussed openly, dozens of plans were considered and thrown aside, there just was
not anything big enough to fit the occasion; exhausted minds just stood and gaped at one another and said, “Ain’t
it a grand and glorious feelin,’ at last, Trinity met her Wildcat, and the Wildcat went wild!”

Tick-tock went the clock. “Fight ’em, gang!” roared the boys on the hill. Click, click, said the telegraph, and then
the fireworks started. Slowly, too slow, came the words, “Game over—Hendrix plays superb game—” Would it never come! “Score? Score?”
roared the waiting crowd. Tap by tap Mr. Abernethy spelled out the message—D—a—v—i—d—s—o—n Why don’t that man hurry?—21—a blood-curdling yell
rent the air, a silence of death followed—T—r—i—n—i—t—y—oh, what could it be!?!?!—13. Then it was that things blew up. A
footrace to the bell tower was made in nothing flat, yelling voices accented every jump, arms flew in every direction,
but what mattered a few arms! Ears were cut off by the smiles that threatened to sever the head from
the neck, joy ran superbly wild! The boys who stayed at Davidson placed their all on “ole gang,” gang won!
For hours the bell tolled and told the story. But enough! Telegrams do bring joy.

CONVICT CAMPS

Thanksgiving Day, with nothing to do except to eat, sleep and be thankful was well observed at the convict camp.
Through the thoughtfulness and work of a few of the students, it was possible to add a little to the
Thanksgiving repast at the camp. Fruit of all kinds, candy and sweets were carried out to the men Thursday afternoon.
When a man’s hunger is satisfied, he usually wants to smoke and something to read. These were not lacking, their
wants being well supplied with cigars and magazines. The latter are always acceptable in any shape or form. “Boss, please
bring me something to read,” is the constant request, so please save up your magazines.

On Sunday the regular meeting was held, at which five students were present. R. S. Wilson, A. Y. Bowie, A.
D. Viernes, Tag Guiton, and Joe Garrison were those who went. Bowie spoke for a few moments on the Call
of Matthew.

STUDENTS CHEER HEARTS AT PHI BETA KAPPA

(Continued from page 1)

is often a lecturer on English at Chautauqua assemblies.

The subject of the address to be given by Dr. Currell is “A Plea for Humanities.” Invitations have been sent
out to all members of the Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, to both resident and non-resident members. It is
hoped that a large number of those invited will be able to be present at the celebration. The private initiation
will be held before the public ceremony at 7:00 o'clock. After the public celebration at 8:00 o'clock there will be
a banquet which will be attended by all members of the chapter.

The following is the list of the new members to be received Friday night: Rev. W. B. Jennings, ‘80, Germantown,
Pa.; Dr. James D. Nesbit, ‘81, New York City; Dr. J. P. Mathewson, ‘94, Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. W. T.
Thompson, ‘05, Richmond, Va.; Rev. Robert King, '06, Decatur, Ga.; Dr. B. R. Lacy, '06, Atlanta, Ga.; Rev. J. J.
Murray, ‘09, Lexington, Va.; Dr. J. M. Douglas, '93, Davidson, N. C.; M. W. Trawick, W. W. Purdy, and A.
T. Rowe, Jr., all of the class of '25, Davidson College.

On the first day of the Red Cross drive recently held at Auburn, 175 students were signed up for membership.
This was very encouraging to the leaders to have such an active interest taken—‘The Plainsman,” Auburn.

Carolinians from the Old North State have organized a “Tar-Heel Club” at Citadel and have elected as president “Cle” Green,
of Charlotte. At present there are eight members in this club.—"The Bull-Dog,” Citadel.

Follow the leaders who set the pace of smart college fashions. Notice your fellow classmates as you meet them on
the campus, and you're sure to be most impressed by their excellent taste and appearance. Visit our display rooms and
find an answer to all your needs in clothes that ARE the vogue.First publicly demonstrated on June 5, 1923, in
the laboratory of the General Electric Company at Pittsfield, Mass., when a two-million-volt spark crashed into this miniature village. What’s
the use of artificial lightning? It is mainly experimental, aiding General Electric scientists to solve high power transmission problems. Many
such experiments yield no immediate return. But in the long run, this work is practical and important. It is part
of the study which must go on unceasingly if this powerful force, Electricity, is to be fully tamed and enlisted
in your service. Experiments like these are particularly thrilling and important to young men and women, who will live in
an age when electricity will perform most of life’s hardest tasks. Know what the research laboratories of the General Electric
Company are doing; they are a telescope through which you can see the future! If you are interested to learn
more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete set of these advertisements.

Greater Bon Marché Junior-Senior Forensic Team Selected by Pans
Garrison, Milton, and Shaw Chosen in Contest of Six Last Monday Night

The Pandemnic Literary Society chose its team for the coming Junior-Senior debate on Monday night, December 1st. Six men of
the society tried for places to represent the Pans in the semi-finals. The ones chosen were J. M. Garrison, W.
E. Milton, and H. I. Shaw. The speakers were chosen in the order given: Garrison, Milton, and Shaw. G. M.
Eddington and C. M. S. Mellwaine tied for the place of alternate. The judges for the evening were Mr. R.
H. Henderson, Rev. A. I. Laird, and Dr. C. R. Harding.

The subject to be debated in the inter-society contest this year is, “Resolved, That the proposed Twentieth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States, as passed by Congress in June, 1924, should be ratified.” The proposed articles are as
follows:

“Section 1. The Congress shall have power to limit, regulate, and prohibit the labor of persons under 18 years of
age.
“Sec. 2. The power of the several States shall be unimpaired by this article except that the operation of State
laws shall be suspended to the extent necessary to give effect to legislation enacted by the Congress.”

In the Pandemic eliminations Monday night, three men had elected the affirmative side of the question, and three the negative;
because of this, the interest and enthusiasm was unusually keen. On December 10th, the Metros and Pans will meet for
the semi-finals, and the winner will meet the winner from the Phi-Eu semi-finals for the final contest, which comes December
17th.

The Pandemic Society has the distinction of never having lost a Junior-Senior debate. Members of the other societies are out
to beat the Pans. This will make for a lively contest when the semi-final champions clash on December 17th.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson College Day was observed on December 3rd. Several addresses were delivered by alumni, faculty members, and students. The main
theme of the occasion was The Million Dollar Campaign then being put on for education in North Carolina. Five men
were sent to the Student Volunteer Convention in Des Moines, Iowa. A cut three columns wide of the football team
was run in The Davidsonian. This team had just beaten Furman 41 to 14 in the Thanksgiving game. Black and
Johnson, playing the whole game together for the first time, ran wild and were the stars in the backfield. Hammett
and Romefelt were the stars in the line. Pat Crawford was chosen for a substitute on the all-class basketball team.
An editorial appeared in The Davidsonian about Senior Speaking which had just been held. The editor was strongly opposed to
the continuation of the old method of speaking. He stated that either the speeches would have to be more interesting,
the students more interested, or the whole thing abolished. Exams started on the 8th of December.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR AND SUNDAY SCHOOL COMPARED

A. Y. Bowie led the C. E. Training Class in a discussion on “The relative importance of Christian Endeavor to
the Sunday School.” The discussion consisted of the asking and answering of questions by different members of the class regarding
the work of Christian Endeavor in relation to the Sunday School. The point was brought out that the Christian Endeavor
is a basis of support for the Sunday School and the Sunday School for the church. The benefits of the
training in a Christian Endeavor Society were also discussed.

Clemson College has almost returned to normalcy following the recent strike of half the student body, numbering five hundred. The
senior and junior classes are somewhat smaller. Twenty-three members of the senior class were dismissed, while four seniors and one
hundred and eight juniors have been suspended for the school year. The cause of the strike was dissatisfaction with the
food and the suspension of the senior class president for a year.

The student body of Hampden-Sidney College, in response to an appeal of Rev. Robert M. Bettinger, missionary to Africa who
was recently on the hill, obligated themselves to support a missionary to the dark continent. Nearly all of the needed
$2,700 dollars has now been raised.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY. NEW YORK
