4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff

The question as to what effect the honors a man acquires in college will have on his success in after
life has been discussed by the advocates and opponents of extra-curricular activities in college life. Will a man’s success in
the world be proportionate to the honors which have come his way in college? George L. Moore in the September
number of The Open Road discusses the question more authoritatively than most who write on the subject, furnishing statistics from
colleges in every section of the country. The statistics deal as much with college men in general as with those
holding offices, and show that college men are better than the average in money-earning capacity as well as in prominence
in public and social life. Statistics show that seventy-seven out of every one hundred men listed in Who's Who in
America attended college. To the man who attacks colleges, however, this means nothing as he looks at life from a
monetary point of view. The figures also show that the college man has an earning capacity higher than the average.
While the majority of incomes listed in the tax returns fall below four thousand dollars per year, the returns received
from college men averaged well above that figure. So much for the college man’s earning capacity and prominence as compared
with that of the non-college man.

The Open Road questionnaires were sent out especially to class presidents, athletic managers, editors, captains of teams, honor men in
studies, and treasurers and secretaries. The statistics included men who had been out of college between ten and fifteen years.
Class presidents had an average income of five thousand eight hundred dollars heading the list. Athletic managers came second, treasurers
and secretaries third, honor men fourth, captains of teams fifth, and editors last with an average income of slightly over
three thousand six hundred dollars.

Several striking facts present themselves in the above figures. Contrary to general belief, honor men make more money than athletic
captains. However, The Open Road goes on to say that the percentage of noteworthy successes is about the same in
each class, and comes to the conclusion that it is the man and not the office he holds which counts.
Thus The Open Road presents the evidence, giving readers the opportunity to form their own judgments on both sides, and
leaves it to place any definite value on outside activities. The question, “Are leaders in college proportionately successful in after
life?” still remains to be answered by each as his individual opinion dictates, but—do not judge the question without first
reviewing the evidence.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

MUD

We do not know how long the Davidson College student body has been wading in mud up to their knees
throughout the winter, but we do know that it has been happening ever since the present student body can remember.
There are traces of ancient brick walks in various places on the campus, but nobody seems to remember anything about
their use. But it makes no difference whether the present muddy situation at Davidson has always prevailed or not, every
student at Davidson knows that the conditions are about as unhealthful as we can stand.

Here is the situation: Everybody knows how much wet weather we have here in the winter time. Naturally, our poorly
kept, inefficient sand walks become so sloppy that it is disgusting to try to walk on them. It is no
exaggeration to say that it is practically impossible to walk across the campus during a rainy spell without either wading
through mud from one to three inches deep in the middle of the walks, or walking on the grass which
with slight use in such weather becomes worse than the walks. The result is that we sit around our rooms
about half the time with wet feet and muddy trousers on, shivering and sneezing, and as the case happens to
be, at present, without any heat to dry us. Common sense tells us what this will do for anyone.

Now we don’t want to be unreasonable, for we know that the college has about as much to do with
a little bit of money as it can be expected to do. On the other hand, we have seen money
and labor expended on walls and terraces, for appearances' sake to such an extent that if it had been diverted
and put on walkways, it would have paved a large portion, if not all of our most badly needed walk,
from town to dormitory row. Do you think it is unreasonable then to request that this money and labor be
spent on walks, for our comfort and health’s sake instead of terraces and walls for appearances' sake? Then when our
needs have been attended to, turn to the luxuries. Of course, there may be reasons why the terraces should come
first. We do not know. If this is the case, then we would like to appeal to the proper authorities
through this medium, for goodness' sake, put on a drive for a few thousand dollars to get us out of
this mud.

TURP.

SUGGESTIONS TO COLLEGE STUDENTS

You are about to start for college, or it may be that you have already gone. I hope that you
will not think it presumptuous for one who has kept in close touch with student life for a good many
years to make a few suggestions which may help you on toward making the most of this golden opportunity which
is yours.

Give your first attention to your textbooks and classroom assignments. That is really what you are going to college for,
but some students never seem to realize it. I knew a student who declared that she did not intend to
let her studies interfere with her college course. I was expressing to a university president the wish that our students
would learn to master subjects rather than merely memorize textbooks. He replied that he would be glad if he could
get his students to do either. Prepare all your work well from the very first day. It is difficult to
catch up when you once get behind. Itis even more difficult to make a reputation as being a good student
when you have once made a reputation as a poor one. Use methods that are honest and manly in all
recitations, tests, and examinations. Avoid all appearances of evil. Be honest, truthful, and sincere in all things. These are elements
that lie at the foundation of character.

Take systematic exercise. Be regular and systematic in eating, sleeping, and in your whole manner of living. Strive to have
a strong mind in a strong body. Good health contributes a great deal to happiness and efficiency. Develop the social
side of your life. A young man boasted to me once that he had not made a single social call
in the whole four years of his college course. It was nothing to boast about. In fact, it was unnecessary
for him to inform people that he had not developed himself socially. It was perfectly and painfully apparent. Pay your
professors an occasional social visit. They will be glad to see you. Remember the injunction of Webster’s blue-back spelling book
that visitors should not make their visits too long. It is proverbial that college students do not know how or
when to leave when they are invited to a professor’s home. If you are invited to a meal, leave twenty
or thirty minutes after the meal is over, and be sure to go back in a few days to pay
your party call. In other words, cultivate good manners and the common courtesies of life.

Do not neglect your spiritual life. Identify yourself with the college Y. M. C. A. or Y. W. C. A.
and with the local church. Take a positive stand for Christ and Christianity. Keep up your own private devotions. Do
not drift. Be careful in all money matters. As far as possible, go on a cash basis. If you have
to make any bills or debts, pay them promptly. Do not be a tightwad but at the same time, do
not be a spendthrift. Do not try to keep up with the fellow who has a great deal more money
than you have. Live within your means. Above all things, do not gamble. It destroys character. The way you handle
money will have much to do with the development or destruction of your character.

Do not waste your time and demoralize yourself by racing all around over the country in automobiles. Stick close to
base and remember the great purpose for which you are at college. Join a literary society and perform the duties
assigned to you. Cultivate the arts of speaking and writing. You will find them of immense value in any calling
in life.

If you are invited to join a Greek letter fraternity, do not let it turn your head. Look at the
fellows in it and see if that is the crowd you want to tie to. If you join a fraternity,
do not be snobbish. Be democratic and cultivate the friendship of good men in and out of fraternities. If you
are not invited to join a fraternity, do not get sore about it. A great many worse things could befall
you. There are many good men outside the fraternities. Observe all college rules. Attend to all college duties. Be punctual
and reliable. Do not get the mob spirit and lose your head. Do not deface or destroy college property. It
is wrong to do so, and it is the way that leads to anarchy. In short, do right, be a
man, and lay well the foundations for your life work. This is a golden opportunity. If you waste it, you
can never recall it. You will not pass this way again.

Walter L. Lingle.

Chaff NEWS WE EXPECT TO SEE

Davidson, Feb. 13—Judging from all reports and communications, the “one hundred per cent for the people” candidate for the presidency
will sweep this section of the country like a whirlwind. After careful and deliberate consideration on the part of the
committee for the selection of a competent and trustworthy chairman, it was finally decided by a broomstraw vote of forty-nine
to sixteen that The Right Honorable W. Harllee Bordeaux was the only gentleman of note that is capable of handling
the momentous responsibilities arising at critical moments concerning matters of strategic and undeniable importance. In order to justify the selection
of such an influential citizen to handle the chairmanship of the Independent party in this immediate vicinity, it was necessary
to appropriate available funds for the facilitation of intrinsic and valid matters. While the illustrious candidate, namely, Andrew Gump, did
not have the honor of attending Davidson College, his great-uncle’s wife’s grandfather passed through a town only seventeen miles south
of here in the fall of 1794, while on a deer hunt, and for this reason, the candidate has always
held in his heart a warmth that is boundless, and an effulgent smile always radiates over his facial apparatus whenever
the name of the College is mentioned in his presence. Chairman Bordeaux has been the direct cause of the holders
in the Western Union Telegraph Company receiving a twenty-five per cent dividend because of the fact that he has sent
so many messages to Headquarters urging the managers to persuade the noted citizen of this land of the free to
come here to speak to the ballot scratchers. Next week President-to-be-elected Gump will attend the International Convention of the Lion
Tamers’ Club which is to be held at Mount Mourne, and it is rumored around the golf course that from
there the Railway Caboose, the official private car of the campaign, will be switched off here, and that the candidate
will deliver one of his fiery orations for which he is favorably noted and eminently qualified, animated by the fervent
desire to succor his fellow compatriots in this hour of dogmatical and revolutionary doctrines promulgated by the fiery radicals and
antagonistic elements of the national population. He is traversing the boundaries of the various commonwealths in order to liberate the
dejected and indigent proletariat from the rapacious and avaricious clutches of the plutocrats. The following is a speech delivered by
the illustrious Gump which was broadcasted by station F. O. B. Detroit, which will stir the spirit of patriotism in
every human breast that reads it:

“I by no means wish to be ostentatious, but simply wish to say that when I get in the White
House my motto will be, ‘Andy Gump, for, by, and of the people.’ My opponent in this election is a
liar, a horse-thief, a firebug, and a wife-beater. He robbed a bank when he was twelve years old, and poisoned
five hundred of his neighbors’ hogs. His whole family is no good. His grandfather never drew a sober breath and
his two uncles went to jail for forgery. If you elect this man, he will steal the door-knobs and electric
light fixtures from the White House. I am the only honest man in this country. My record is as clean
as a baby’s soap-suds. This bum that is running against me would swipe the bubbles from a baby’s soap-suds. This
bub has no more chance of beating me than a snowball in the Sahara desert on the fourth of July
has of lasting until Christmas. You know which way to vote if you want to be on the winning side.
Trying to defeat me for office is just like trying to pull a twin-six Packard out of a twelve-foot ditch
with a spool of sewing thread.”

* * *

There will be an all-night rally and prune-eating contest held in the basement of the laundry next Friday night at
seven-thirty. All Lion-Tamers and Sons and Daughters of I Will Rise admitted free. Others will be assessed the sum of
fourteen cents each. Bring your razors.

* * *

New York, April 30—His Royal Highness Crown Prince Gumbo Jazzbo Fopalino, Order of the Setting Sun and Exalted Keeper of
the Circus Seals, has lately arrived in this country from Bongoland, Africa, where his father, King Whoozit reigns supreme over
the hicks in that section. His Highness plans to remain in this country several weeks during which time he will
attend the international tiddlywinks matches which will be held on the tiddling field of his host, Fletcher Castoria, the oil
King. The Prince is an excellent tiddler, having played left tiddle on the famous team that defeated all comers from
Abyssinia and Jugo-Slovakia. Along with the Prince were his aides, Baron Oskekosh and Count De Cash who will accompany him
through his American tours.

Much interest was manifested by the public in the Prince’s appearance as he is the setter of styles back in
his native country. On the voyage over he changed attire at least seven times a day and played a double
header, sartorially speaking, on Sundays. As he stepped off the gangplank today, he wore the latest model grass girdle, done
in the spring’s most approved colors of eggshell and scorched orange. A necklace of missionary bones was artistically draped around
his bulging neck while a leopard’s skin of a dark purple shade was thrown carelessly around his shoulders. Fashion dictators
are elated over the prospective changes in men’s wear due to the influence of the Prince. To be swank, one
must wear the grass belt and the bone necklace. The official headgear of the royal scion of Africa’s noblest family
is a high top silk hat. This he wears even while taking a shower. This too will no doubt have
a decided effect on spring fashions. The royal party has received invitations from all over the country inviting it to
map its route so as to include those places. He is expected to be more popular than Andrew Gump, who
toured the country last fall in interest of his candidacy for President. Hats and ties have already been named for
H. R. H. Gumbo Jazzbo and fashions in haberdashery will receive a real live kick for time to come.
