6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 18, 1924

Six Important Vacancies In Student Organizations

T. B. Brown, Jr., business manager of the 1925 Quips and Cranks, is not returning to school this fall and
so this most important office on the staff is left vacant. Brown was elected business manager last spring when the
class of '25 organized their staff and only at the last moment decided not to return. He will spend the
winter making a trip around the world instead of returning to graduate. The position left open is one of the
most important on the staff and requires a great deal of work. The class will find some difficulty in finding
another man capable enough or with the necessary time to spend on it. However, a new man will be appointed
or elected immediately.

L. L. Deck has been appointed business manager of the Davidson College Magazine to succeed John M. Selser, who will
not return this year. Other vacancies are manager of the Glee Club, captain of the wrestling team, vice-president of the
Athletic Association, and athletic editor of the Davidsonian.

NEW HOTEL IS FORMALLY OPENED

(Continued from page 1)

The establishment of a hotel fills a need long felt both by the students of the college and by the
citizens of the town. Heretofore it has been difficult for visitors to find accommodations while here, but it is thought
that the hotel will relieve this condition, and thereby help the progress of the town. Mr. Cranford states that special
attention will be given to banquets, and that in the spacious dining room they will be able to care for
all class, fraternity, and other banquets.

FANDOM MOURNS FRANK CHANCE

Had Spent Most of His Days on Diamond With Cubs—Tried to Come Back Last Year to Manage Sox But Health
Would Not Permit

Baseball today mourned Frank Chance, the "peerless leader," whose sudden death in Los Angeles yesterday ended a battle he had
fought with asthma and other complications since an attack of influenza over a year ago. Chicago, which had hailed his
election as manager of the White Sox last fall and hoped against hope that his health would permit him to
take active charge, particularly felt a keen regret. For, to Chicago, as manager of the Cubs, Chance brought four National
League pennants and two world championships.

Johnny Evers, acting manager of the White Sox and member of the famous triumvirate "Tinker to Evers to Chance," paid
his tribute to the dead mentor, with whom he had been associated since 1902. "It is a severe blow that
Frank has passed along," he said. "From 1902 to 1913 we were together daily during the playing season. When Frank
accepted the managership of the White Sox he immediately offered me a place as his assistant. I jumped at it
because I wanted to be associated with the old boy again. Then he was taken ill and I was glad
to handle the team until he could report. He made a game fight of it."

Frank Chance came to Chicago as a catcher in 1898 for 'Pop' Anson's Colts, later on Sullivan's semi-pro team, at
a salary of $75 a month. His family intended that he should become a banker, like his father, and he
had been sent to Washington College, Irvington, Cal., where he played three years on his college team. Frank Selee, manager
of the Cubs, made a first baseman of him. In 1905 Chance succeeded Selee at the helm of the team
and until 1912 he directed the club from first base.

In the winter of 1913 Chance was signed to manage the New York Yankees, with whom he remained until the
following season, when he decided to retire from major league baseball. He went to his home on the Pacific coast
and later became manager and part owner of the Los Angeles club. His next appearance in major leagues was in
1923 as manager of the Boston Red Sox. Then President Comiskey, of the Chicago Americans, offered him the managerial berth.
He spent only one day with his team. During the spring he received treatment at a California health resort, while
Evers took charge of the team in training. Chance promised to join the club before the season. He made good
his word on April 9th, but the effort put him in a hospital the next day and he left the
institution only to return to the west—Charlotte Observer.

Guy Greene, Charles Chakales, Wendell Moore, William Stradley, and Ralph James, star athletes at Asheville high school, enter Wake Forest
College this week. Greene, Chakales, and James were members of the backfield that won the state football championship for Asheville
two years ago. They were also members of the state championship basketball team two seasons ago. Stradley and Moore played
on varsity football and baseball teams two years ago.—Charlotte Observer.

IT’S THE CUT OF YOUR CLOTHES THAT COUNTS

Again the Cornell for Fall

In all our experience, no suit has ever met with quite the whole-hearted favor that the Cornell has received. From
the day this Society Brand model was offered to the well-dressed man, it was accepted—everywhere. It’s a loose cut, easy,
tailored-looking, that almost everybody likes. This fall the new Cornell is again the thing. A rich assortment as low as
$40 and up to $65.

TATE-BROWN CO.

Bub Oeland and Tom Staley, Agents

Prospects Bright for Successful “Y” Year

Harry Price Makes Plans to Secure Prominent Speakers for Vesper Services

The Y. M. C. A. is looking forward to a most successful year. Each member of the cabinet is at
work and with the hearty co-operation of the student body great good can be accomplished. The speaker for the vesper
service next Sunday evening will be Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Charlotte. Dr. Johnson
needs no introduction to the students of Davidson as he has always proved a loyal supporter of the college and
has visited the campus on many occasions. He was given the honorary title of Doctor of Divinity by the college
in June, 1923. An added feature to the vesper services this year will be special music. A quartet will service
Sunday night.

The president of the “Y,” Harry Price, has many plans he hopes to carry out in connection with the work.
As he stated at the installation service last spring, “Davidson can be a place where men are not satisfied with
a form of Christianity, but where men are willing to be radically Christian.” As vice-president, R. W. Oeland is in
charge of the personal work. This is a great task, but one which cannot be neglected, for it is through
this particular department that some of the best work is accomplished. “Piggy” Martin is in charge of the weekly meetings
and the prospects at present are that the speakers for the “Y” this...year will be better than ever. He has
also arranged to have some special musical program each Sunday night. The deputations are under the charge of D. B.
Wharton. By this means, the “Y” is enabled to extend its work far beyond the bounds of the campus and
reach high school boys throughout the entire state, furnishing the special music for the Summer.

Presents Many Improvements on Campus Landscaping and Other Improvements Add Beauty to Grounds of Davidson College

Davidson has a campus she can justly be proud of, a carpet of grass under a canopy of shade trees.
It is a combination that is hard to beat and gives the campus the aspect of a woodland lawn. And
Davidson is proud of her campus, which has few rivals in the South, and each year efforts are made to
improve it. One of the most notable improvements in the past year are the aristocratic pillars at the corner of
the campus and the president’s home. These pillars are the gift and lasting memorial of the class of '24. The
stones of old Chambers have been made once more useful and ornamental and now constitute a wall along the side
of the campus fronting Main Street. This wall enhances the beauty of the campus to such an extent that one
would have to witness the change in order to appreciate it. It gives the campus a finished appearance instead of
the appearance of gradually merging into the mud of the street. Now one can step from a dry campus, down
stone steps, onto the clean pavement of the street; and the mud may grit its proverbial teeth in vain.

And what of the mud on the campus, for so many decades the bane of every Davidson student? Its presence
can still be detected but it is gradually and surely giving way before the onslaught of campus improvement. Dormitory space
between the dormitories, an expanse of thick red mud, is being terraced and sown to grass, with gravel walks down
the center. All over the campus the walks are being made mud-proof, some with gravel, some with granite chips. The
mud is still very much in evidence but has every sign of becoming a tradition with the passing of a
few years.

M. S. Beall has the all-important job of entertainment and the greatest of his work comes at the opening of
college in the form of welcoming the freshmen and taking charge of the Freshmen Reception. T. F. Staley has charge
of the department of self-help. This is especially beneficial to the new men who are desirous of obtaining work in
and around the college. The task of editing the handbook was given to C. S. Furches, who has successfully placed
it in the hands of the students. J. R. Briggs is in charge of the mission fund and through this
means the students yearly contribute something to mission work in foreign lands. Sunday Schools in the vicinity of Davidson are
usually supplied with students for teachers. A. N. Moffett will handle this phase of the work which proves a valuable
source of service for the “Y.” L. B. Gibbs will look after the community work. Davidson offers a fruitful field
for work of this nature. Each year there are study classes held throughout the student body. One term three classes
are in the form of Bible study classes and the other term they are mission study classes. The Bible study
is under the direction of W. C. Ramsey while J. D. Laws will look after the mission study. A. H.
Hollingsworth, secretary of the “Y” is responsible for the attendance at the weekly meetings and keeps the records of the
“Y.” The whole work of the Y. M. C. A. is under the direction of J. P. Williams, who is
the general secretary. This is Mr. Williams’ second year with the college in this capacity and the work has progressed
greatly under his guidance. He is desirous of making this the best year yet and is counting on the entire
student body for its support.

NEARLY THREE HUNDRED (Continued from page 1)

The present class will furnish an unusual amount of material for athletics, scholastic honors, oratorical spheres and all other college
activities. Although many of the members of all three upper classes have failed to return, from all different viewpoints, athletic
included, there seems to be a greater percent of the leading men of all classes returning to college this year
than in the past few years. Everything points to a successful year.

WORK BY ENDEAVORERS

The first meeting of the Christian Endeavor Training Class for the new scholastic year was held in Shearer Hall Sunday
afternoon at 1:15. Approximately 30 students, including a dozen new men, attended the meeting. W. E. Milton, president of the
class, presided. The president gave a short account of the history and work of the class, welcoming the new men
into the fellowship of the old members. Following the opening song service, led by L. L. Deck, and the introductory
remarks, the regular planned program of the hour was begun. The program consisted of reports by old members in regard
to Christian Endeavor work during the summer, the new men also telling in brief of their connection with C. E.
before entering Davidson. The reports revealed the fact that the members had been active in the work during the vacation
months, organizing new societies and helping societies in the towns and cities from which the students come. Much valuable experience
was gained by practical work during the summer, which will be brought before the class during the year. The program
for next Sunday will consist of a model deputation in which G. M. Eddington and W. T. Covington will be
the speakers. All men interested in C. E. work are cordially invited to join the class. Officers for the ensuing
year are W. E. Milton, president; A. H. Hollingsworth, Jr., vice-president; J. M. Calhoun, secretary; and W. T. Covington, treasurer.

Another Shelby boy has started on a coaching career according to an announcement from Lawndale that Johnny Hudson, former star
halfback at State, has accepted a position as director of athletics in the Piedmont high and preparatory school there. Piedmont
this year is putting out a football eleven for the first time and Shelby will be among the teams met.
Coach Hudson, after leaving State college, where he was a star in baseball and football, played professional football two years
in Washington, later playing baseball with Columbus in the American Association, Shelby in the Blue Ridge League, and in the
Florida State circuit. Shelby people and State college followers are watching with interest the work of the new coach at
Piedmont. — Charlotte Observer.
