f this 6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

Scabbard and Blade To Send Two To Convention

Ramsey and Lake Go to Illinois to National Gathering

Next week W. C. Ramsey and J. A. Lake will represent the local company of Scabbard and Blade at the
national convention of that society. “F” Company, First Regiment, University of Illinois, Champaign, Ill., will be the hosts at this
convention. This society now includes 50 chapters among the colleges of the country. This is the first time Davidson has
been represented at the national convention, as the local company was installed in May, 1923. “B” Company, Fifth Regiment, will
be well represented. W. C. Ramsey is the captain of “D” Company of the R. O. T. C. Battalion. J.
A. Lake is also a captain, holding the office of battalion adjutant. The other student members of the local company
are: C. A. Young, G. M. Ford, W. H. Cromwell, H. G. Fenton, J. R. Gudger, J. P. Hendrix, J.
R. Earnest, and L. B. Gibbs.

DAVIDSON DEBATERS DOWN EMORY STARS

(Continued from page 1)

to use whatever measure she deemed necessary within the limits of reason. He then proceeded to prove the point that
the causes underlying the occupation justify France. He gave statistics showing Germany's default, asserting that Germany had disavowed all laws,
and that France, left alone, needed this privilege. “There was no other means to assure herself of collections,” he stated.
“France did her best first, and then, because she needed the money, she resorted to this action, the reparations commission
authorizing it.”

“The results of France’s occupation of the Ruhr do not justify her, for it has been inexpedient and unprofitable,” said
M. Rose in opening his argument. He looked at the question from a commercial point of view, declaring that the
conditions are worse today because of France’s occupation. Germany could not pay, he said, except by turning over her securities
and her marks, and the latter were worthless. He argued that Germany would have paid in time. He challenged the
affirmative to show that France had made a profit, and concluded by saying that all that France had obtained by
her occupation could have been attained without her invasion.

Warren Cox, the last speaker for Davidson, did not wait for rebuttal, but refuted the statement that Germany cannot pay
by reading the headlines of the New York Times, of Thursday, in which it was stated that “experts declare Germany
able to pay,” and “Germany’s resources are ample.” This was occasioned by the report of the Dawes’ Expert Commission to
the Reparations Commission. He asserted that Germany's only debt is the reparations debt, since worthless marks have destroyed other obligations.
He reviewed the industrial conditions of Germany, and noted the evasiveness of this country.

The last speaker of the negative, H. M. Bullock, proved that equity and wisdom do not justify the invasion. He
said that it was morally wrong, politically unsound, and that it was a violation of the sanctity of treaties. He
also touched upon the commercial viewpoint, stating that France was not bankrupt and did not need the money, and that
even now a 40 percent tax is made on all goods going from the Ruhr to Germany and no tax
upon those going into France. “It is morally wrong,” he said, “because it is a step toward militarism; it is
politically unsound because it provokes future wars, since Germany was bound to retaliate, and, lastly, it destroyed the sanctity of
treaties, because the provisions of the Versailles Treaty and the Covenant of the League of Nations have been violated.”

The rebuttal showed Davidson’s superior strength. Paul Story mixed wit with sound and logical facts, and both Elkins and Cox
put across their refutations in a noteworthy manner. It was here that the debate was cinched and even the consensus
of opinion of the audience was that Davidson had added another victory to her string of intercollegiate debating wins. Approximately
50 Davidson students were at the debate, and at its conclusion, the debaters, judges, Davidson men, and other guests were
tendered a reception by the Queens College student body.

There died recently in Paris the man who was the second patient treated by the great Pasteur after he had
discovered the nature of hydrophobia. This was in 1885, when this dread disease was one of the most terrible in
the world. No one ever hears of hydrophobia now. Pasteur and Science have conquered it—Ex.

Literary Societies

Eumenean

At the debate at the regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society last Thursday night, A. C. Wildman and T.
C. Barr won. They defended the negative of the bill, Resolved, That the duties of paid coaches in American colleges
should be limited to mass athletics. N. G. Patterson, A. M. Moffett, and W. H. Lynch spoke on the affirmative.
McLane, the reviewer, recommended all the speakers for credit. W. A. Christian was reinstated into membership of the society. President
Smith announced the regular election of officers for the fall term.

Pandeinic

The installation of new officers was the main event at the last meeting of the Pandeinic Society. The new officers
are: H. B. Price, president; H. L. Shaw, vice-president; L. M. McCutchen, secretary; L. B. Gibbs, treasurer; C. M. S.
McIlwaine, first critic; A. H. Hollingsworth, second critic; J. F. Pinkney, sergeant-at-arms. Price made a short inaugural address recalling the
honors won in the past by the society and pleading for earnestness of endeavor in the future. In the regular
debate J. E. Moore, supporting the Whigs (affirmative side), won over S. W. Moore, representing the Tories, who were supporting
the negative.

GLEE CLUB TO WARBLE

(Continued from page 1)

the occasions and the jazz orchestra has done its share to keep things livened up. The fact that the organization
carries both a symphony and a jazz orchestra attracts many who prefer one to the other. This program by the
Glee Club will be next to the last that they will give this year, the last being at Concord, where
they will make music for the musical festival to be held in that city. This is indeed an opportunity to
hear the premier songbird and jazz hound of the Southland. Tickets to be on sale at White’s Drug Store, Friday
afternoon; admission, 75 and 50 cents.

Following is a program of the Glee Club for Friday night:

Part One

Prelude.

1. We Love Us --------------- Mrs. Coral Baker
The Winter Song --------------- Bullard
The Chilled Heart --------------- J. R. Earnest
Glee Club

2. The Toreador --------------- Bizet
Mr. Jones

3. De Back-Slidin’ Brudder --------------- Parks
Possum Trot --------------- Parks
Messrs. McCain, Dupuy, Jones, and Elkins

4. Kohelas March --------------- Selected
Melody in F --------------- Rubenstein
String Quartet

5. Selected --------------- Mr. Wilson

6. Sobbing Blues --------------- Kassell
Steamboat Sal --------------- Fisher
Dixie Novelty Seven

7. On the Road to Mandalay --------------- Speaks
Tell Me Not of a Lovely Lass --------------- Forsyth
Glee Club

Interlude—Mr. Martin.

Part Two

1. In This Hour of Softened Splendour --------------- Pinsuti
Song of Love --------------- Romberg
Glee Club

2. Selected --------------- Mr. McCain and Chorus

3. Sweet Pal --------------- Miller
Sleep --------------- Messrs. McCain, Dupuy, Jones, and Elkins

4. Rose of My Heart --------------- Mr. Allison

5. My Old Ramshackle Shack ---------------
There’s a Bend at the End of the Suwanee ---------------
Dixie Novelty Seven

6. Selected --------------- Mr. Montgomery

7. O! Davidson --------------- Shields
Glee Club

Listen, my children, and you shall hear of the sad, sad fate of Archie: Keeis—He did a good job at
hugging the girl—But failed to see the automobile.

Track Teams of State Enter Raleigh Meet

State and Carolina Loom as Strongest Contenders Among Carolina Teams

The state track meet for this year will be held at Raleigh on the 2nd and 3rd of May. Formerly
this meet has been one of the biggest things in the college athletics of the state and the one this
year promises to surpass all on record. Every college in North Carolina will be represented, Lenoir and Guilford joining Davidson,
Carolina, State, Trinity, and Elon, who alone have made up the previous meets. Each college will be allowed to enterAs
many men as they see fit. Coach Monk states that probably five men will be sent from Davidson, only those
who seem likely to win points being selected. However, there is still time for men to show their ability in
the dual meets coming before May 2nd, and if anyone does show enough, he will also make the trip. In
the last three all-state meets, the Wildcats have come off with their share of the honors. In the meet three
years ago at Chapel Hill, with Leonard Dick as captain, the team won 23 points, Knight taking first place in
the shot put. State won the meet. The next year at Durham, the meet, which Carolina won, was held in
connection with the Olympic games. Here Gracey tied for first place in the pole vault, Knight won first in the
shot put, and Koenig won first place in his dash. Gold medals were given for first places, silver for second,
and bronze for third, and the Wildcats brought back their share. Last year at Chapel Hill, Carolina won the meet,
State coming in second and Davidson third. Gracey took first place in the high hurdles, Calhoun in the high jump,
and Streibich and Captain Gallaway second place in the pole vault and 880, respectively.

DAVIDSON HONOR MAN (Continued from page 1)

An incident in which the Buddhist priests were found to have entrapped women and led them into an underground prison,
when the women had come to their shrines to worship. “This is what the past has had for China.” “At
present, the student movements are the ruling influences in China. The real power of China is in the hands of
the students, the young men and young women in the schools of the nation. In 1919, the influence of the
college students caused the overthrow of the government of that time. “The New Thought Movement is also a great influence
in the China of today. The idea of these advocates of New Thought is to simplify the written language. They
want to make the written language similar to the spoken language, and they are introducing a new written language which
is better than the old forms of writing and yet is much simpler and more easily learned than the older
forms. This has resulted in putting the Bible on a pedestal, in making the Bible more widely read, and is
producing a good effect upon the nation. But the greatest good that has been accomplished by the New Thought Movement
has been the ruling out of old customs. “The greatest movement in China today is the Christian movement. This movement
is exerted through three channels—educational, medical, and evangelistic missions.” Mr. McLaughlin spoke of the great advancement of the cause of
Christ that had come about through the influence of the Christian hospitals in his province. He spoke of the hospitals
which not only saved the lives of Chinese patients, but also through their influence saved the lives of missionaries in
saving them from the fury of mobs. In speaking of the educational missions, the missionary said the need of China
was for a Davidson in that country. They have the Yale and Harvard of China, but their need is for
a Davidson in China. The evangelistic work he spoke of as the main work, the work that will bring China
to Christ. Looking into the future, the speaker said that China was facing a great need of leadership. She is
at the crossroads and must be won for Christ or she will be won for the Devil. China is facing
the Christian religion as never before. C. V. Brown led the singing, Wallace Purdy was pianist. Mr. J. P. Williams
introduced the speaker of the evening.

Breaks News Gently
He—“And how’s my girl today?”
She (enthusiastically)—“Just fine!”
He—“How do you know?”
—Arizona Wildcat.

R.O.T.C. News
C. A. (Crown) Young will appear before the examining board at Fort Bragg, N. C., on April 14th, to stand
examination for a commission as second lieutenant in the regular army. He now holds a commission in the O.R.C., having
been commissioned a second lieutenant upon the completion of the R.O.T.C. course here last year. Young comes originally from Bellmeade,
N. J. He goes up for examination well qualified for the office unto which he aspires and with the good
wishes of the entire unit. Major Ford has been asked if he desires a 45-day tour of duty with the
summer camps this summer, with the pay of a second lieutenant. This is a new policy and is inaugurated for
the purpose of rewarding those men who have done most for the unit during their four years’ enrollment. This speaks
well for the high standard of work Ford has done. It has been said that he has not only maintained
the pace set by Majors Hunt, Rogers, Phillips, and Cooper the past four years, but has succeeded in bringing the
unit through the best year it has had as regards discipline and morale. The Juniors and Sophomores who attend camp
this summer are taking a “refresher course” in rifle marksmanship under Captain Weems. We still have the cup, won last
summer, by the Davidson representatives. Captain Weems is anxious for this year's squad to be well prepared for any comers.
The department will announce the third member of the commissioned staff within the next two weeks. Next year’s Seniors have
been authorized $30 with which to purchase uniforms. It is thought that it will be possible to get the English
collar instead of the regulation collar now worn. One of the objects of the new system is to make it
possible for all men to have neat appearing, snappy uniforms, and it is the hope of the unit commander that
the men will take advantage of the opportunity to improve the appearance of the battalion. Selection will be made and
measurements taken before commencement. Major Hearn says that “B” Company is to be congratulated on their fine spirit; as they
proved on Wednesday, the 9th, that they are immune to drowning if given half a chance. Company “B” is getting
in shape to put up a hard fight for the “Honor Flag.” They have been successful in the company competition
for two years and a hard fight is looked forward to when the meet comes off this year.

I can furnish you with complete Radio Sets and Parts
Radiola and other Reliable Sets
Complete outfits installed on short notice
Work guaranteed
$29.50 to $500.00
F. J. BENDER
E. CENTER AVE.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

CLOTHES for the COLLEGE MAN
ACCEPT our wishes for a pleasant vacation. WOULD you mind telling the boys in your Home Town that our representatives
will cover all the leading cities during the Summertime. If they will let us know their home addresses, we will
be glad to advise them just when our representatives will be in their City or in the nearest City to
their home.
NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.
841 Broadway
177 Broadway
New York City
863 Broad Street
Newark, N. J.
231 Water Street
Exeter, N. H.

CENTRAL Dyeing
Largest 8 E. Trade St.
and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection
Oldest HAT SHOP Pressing Best
CHARLOTTE

Friction is eliminated. White shaving cream. You won’t fumble this cap! Professional jugglers could handle the old-style shaving cream caps
and never once drop one down the drain or under the bathtub. But for most of us, this new Williams
Hinge-Cap puts an end to an ancient nuisance. Williams Shaving Cream is just as much pleasanter to use as is
the Hinge-Cap. It softens the beard with uncanny speed. The thicker lather holds the moisture in against the skin where
it is needed. This lather lubricates the skin, too, so that painful razor friction is eliminated. And when your shave
is done, that famous ingredient in Williams which helps the skin, leaves your face cool, soothed, and refreshed. No coloring
matter is used in Williams—it is a pure, natural white shaving cream.
The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
