THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 27, 1924

Have You Paid Your Subscription?

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

ASTHMA
There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated
vapors of—
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows
221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S

Dave Phlegar: “Heard your girl’s been sick, Shike, how’d she feel when you went around?”
Shike Leonard: “Don’t know, I didn’t feel her.”

But Then You Might Get Arrested for “Speeding”

Vick Brown was promenading the streets with his pretty mama, and doing the proverbial window shopping when the fair young
thing stopped in front of a cafe that was displaying a savory roast turkey in the window, and began her
discourse—
“Look, Vick, don’t that look delicious; it even makes my mouth water.”
Vick Brown: “Well spit then—and let's be moving on.”

Rosey McMillan (to his shiekish roomy): “That’s one thing we disagree about.”
Bill Murray: “What's that?”
Rosey: “I don’t think you're so much force with the ladies, that’s all.”

Scene Two
Flake Laird: “Did you see what I saw?”
Hickoryite (feminine): “No, but I heard it hit the floor.”

Hawk: “I don't see how those football players ever get clean.”
Shaw: “Huh, whadda you think the showers are for?”

Ted Covington: “When your girl broke the date did you call her, or find out why?”
Beenum Boggs: “I called her everything I could think of.”

“Sport” News

Returning from a late date, the young sport was approached thus:
Zeke Johnson: “Who won?”
Bob Mitchell: “Won what?”
Zeke Johnson: “The wrestling match.”

We Didn’t Know Cows Were so Refining

Spoofy Hillhouse: “Texas is pretty rich in petroleum, isn’t it?”
R. R. Jones: “I'll say so, why the cows that feed on Texas grass give gasoline.”

Jazz-Baby Smith: “You know Alf?”
By-Jove Rogers: “Alf who?”
Jazz-Baby: “Alf Falfa.”

Everyone is requested, in arranging for Junior Speaking, to specify beforehand whether or not they prefer Airatt Dates, or Dromedary.

Too bad that Shorty Love couldn't be minus one sight-seer so that the new song “The One-Eyed Love” might be
dedicated to this otherwise illustrious short-folks.

I stole a kiss the other night,
My conscience hurts, alack;
I guess I'll go again tonight
And put the blame thing back.

Harping back to the time when the rising seniors were merely freshmen, we gather this story about an illustrious young
member of the class.

The freshmen were running the gauntlet through an avalanche of snowballs as they left chapel, and thinking to self-preserve himself,
Tease McSwain, ducks his head and lights out. He runs head on into a tree and is pretty well bummed
up. On recovering he is asked:
“What in the world did you think, Tease, when you hit that tree?”
“I just thought—good golly, whatta snowball.”

“Rube and Amy dance well together, don't they?”
"Yes, well-together is right.”

Help Wanted
Two young women want washing.
River Road, City.

I think the funniest of all Girls' wild and wooly whims Is that of going to the church To see
and hear the “hims.”

SEMINARY GROUP MEET VOLUNTEER BAND SUNDAY

The Student Volunteer Band met Sunday morning in the “Y” room at the Gym and two talks were given by
members of the Union Seminary delegation which was on the hill for the weekend. Layton Green led the meeting.

Mr. Luke, of Union Seminary, made the first talk on the subject of The Life of the College Man. He
emphasized the difference of the life in college from that outside and the danger here present of failing to remember
that “that life is waiting for us.” He spoke of the influence men here have and how, unless it is
guarded against, men are often turned aside from what they have been intending to do simply because they failed to
keep themselves keyed up to their intended work.

Pat McGeachy, of the class of ’22, was the other man who spoke to the band. His message dealt with
The Opportunity of the Man While in College to Prepare Himself, and also of his duty to keep himself headed
in the right way. “Pat” mentioned how easy it is to go with the bunch, not doing those things which
are so bad, but simply drifting along and thinking that later on will be time enough to think of your
life work. He stressed the value of men finding out.their work, and keeping it in mind throughout their college course.

Monday and Tuesday,
WEST DORMITORY PARLOR FOR EASTER SUIT DELIVERY
March 31 and April 1

BARBER SHOP
J. PETTLO8S BARBER SHOP
TAILORING CO.
Thought Cheapest
SUITS
TAILORED TO ORDER
PHONE 298
AND
PRICES
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Selser Elected Captain Of Wildcat Wrestlers
Selser Remains Undefeated Through Entire Season—Paterson Manager

J. M. “Bromo” Selser, one of the stars on this year’s crack wrestling team, was elected captain of the 1925
team at a meeting of the seven lettermen that comprise the winning outfit of this year. Norman Patterson was elected
as manager. Following the election, plans for next year’s work were discussed by all present, and it is assured that
the same lively interest will be taken by every man of the team and squad as has been the case
the past season.

The 1924 team is without a doubt the strongest and best ever put out by Davidson. A creditable showing was
made in every meet, the season being wound up by defeating the Trinity mat men who were contenders for the
Southern championship. Under the able coaching of Captain Weems and with a good squad from which to select the team,
a strong and fast collection of grapplers was developed; with only one man, Cromartie, leaving the varsity this year. With
Lindamood, popular captain of this year’s aggregation, Cromartie, and Selser, of the 1923 selection, as a nucleus for Captain Weems,
the training for the team of the present year was pushed ahead. About 35 men were out for practice, and
keen competition was evident throughout the season. Vance, Phil Cox, and W. D. Cox showed up well, as did Patterson
of last year’s squad. During the whole season, each man did more than his part. The season's compiled score bears
evidence of this fact. Nor can too much credit be given to Captain Weems, who has labored untiringly for the
success of the team and given it a grasp of the true science of wrestling.

The manager and coach together are working out an excellent schedule for the next season. Letters have been written to
the U.S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, the University of South Carolina, and Georgia Tech, asking for matches. It is thought
that matches will probably be arranged with the University of North Carolina, V.P.I., and Washington and Lee, or the University
of Virginia. Trinity will not be met. The above list is only tentative, however, they are representative of the best
teams in the United States.

MEMBERS OF S. A. E. ENJOY BANQUET IN CHARLOTTE

Over half a hundred members of the S. A. E. Fraternity gathered at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce last Saturday
evening in a Founders’ Day Banquet given by the local chapter, N. C. Theta, in conjunction with the Charlotte alumni.
Definite steps were taken at that time towards organizing a Charlotte Alumni Chapter of S. A. E. Dr. W. H.
Frazer, of Queens College, acted as toastmaster, and following the banquet presided during the interesting program. Short speeches were made
by Dr. A. S. Johnson, Dr. Addison Brenizer, Prof. A. Currie, J. N. Pease, E. S. Faison, and J. O.
Walker.

In addition to the members of the local chapter, the following were among those present: Mayor J. O. Walker, Dr.
J. P. Monroe, Dr. H. S. Monroe, Dr. R. L. Gibbon, Yates Faison, Rev. D. G. Phillips, Dr. J. M.
Douglas, Dr. J. W. McConnell, Professors A. Currie, E. J. Erwin, W. W. Woods, J. L. Douglas, and Messrs. C.
W. Tillett, Jr., H. C. Jones, E. Y. Keesler, H. P. Harding, A. L. James, J. H. Little, R. G.
Brice, and W. E. Chambers.

WRIGLEY'S
After Every Meal

It’s the longest-lasting confection you can buy—and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser for the mouth and teeth.
Wrigley’s means benefit as well as pleasure.

Sealed in its Purity Package

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
