THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1924

=-(0- COLLEGIATE SPORTS =-O-

LIGHT DAVIDSON TEAM RUSHES MOUNTAIN BEARS

(Continued from page 1)

Henry Sapp had snatched up a Mountain fumble on the run and carried it for 17 yards into Lenoir territory. In the same period, Wells carried the ball over the Lenoir goal line, Davidson missing a touchdown when Gresham grabbed the fumbled ball for a touchback. In the third quarter, Hewlett ran the Davidson second team, with third string men under his command at times. Another touchdown was made as McComb and Sapp cut off great gobs of yardage, Hewlett slipping under center for the score. After Popsy Hunt had scored the first field goal of the season for Davidson, the Red and Black machine took the pigskin on Davidson's 20-yard line, and Covington and McComb carried the ball for 80 yards, Teddy making the touchdown on a 12-yard drive through center. Black and Hunt had a perfect day at placement kicking, both getting three try-for-points out of the same number of trials; and Popsy sending the ball over for a three-point score.

Campus to Have Another Wildcat For Its Mascot

Once more a wildcat, snarling and raging, will stalk back and forth in his cage at the Davidson gymnasium. That terrible fighting symbol of Red and Black athletics will again be placed on the campus.

At chapel Monday morning, a plan was presented to the students by Ted Covington, whereby a wildcat could be purchased. A full-grown North Carolina wildcat was recently caught near Fayetteville, N.C., and is now offered to the students of Davidson for the sum of twenty-five dollars. Covington stated that if each student would contribute ten cents, the wildcat could be purchased and, in addition, his food supply would be taken care of for a month. The student body immediately voted to pay this amount for the wildcat.

The first string men were taken out before individual stars could be developed, the whole team showing up well. Captain Davis watched the game from the sidelines, following an operation performed several days before. Phil Cox, playing his first game of the season, with Nappy and Pinkney out, showed the makings of a good end. Sappenfield and Hewlett ran the team well, while Hunt, calling signals for the last few minutes, brought the Davidson team to the Lenoir two and one-half-yard line, the game ending with two more downs to go. Baker, playing opposite a 220-pounder, showed his usual speed and fight. For Lenoir, Gresham, at fullback, was almost the entire team, his defensive work being the strongest point of Gurley's team. Playing without a headgear, his bushy head was at the bottom of all Lenoir’s tackling. He was the spirit of the team.

A running account of the game follows:

NICK SAPPENFIELD
Flashy Davidson Quarterback

First Quarter

Lenoir kicked to Davidson. On the first Davidson punt, Tom Baker recovered a Lenoir fumble on the visitors’ 35-yard line. Hendrix made four yards over tackle and Sappenfield three around end. Bohannon went over the goal line on a 27-yard pass from Sapp. Black kicked goal, score 7-0 for Davidson. Lenoir was unable to gain and the Davidson line smothered a third punt, Davidson getting the ball on Lenoir’s 30-yard line. Hendrix and Black broke through center for five yards each and first down. Black made seven more in two plays. Phil Cox grabbed a pass for a 13-yard gain. Black and Hendrix carried the ball to the two-yard line.

Second Quarter

Hendrix made a touchdown on an end-run, first play. Black kicked goal for 14-0 score. Black’s kick struck the goal posts for a touchback. Sapp picked up a Lenoir fumble, and ran 17 yards to the three-yard line. Black went over on the first play for a touchdown and kicked goal. Score, Davidson 21, Lenoir 0. Sappenfield ran back kick-off for 16 yards. Lenoir got the ball on a fumble, but soon Cox dived into a scramble of both teams to recover. Wells carried the ball for 26 yards on three plays. McComb made first down. McCombs and Black made another first down. McCombs and Wells carried the ball to the 10-yard line on another first down. Wells and Allen pushed the ball the rest of the way. Hunt place-kicked goal.

Third Quarter

Lenoir lost on first two plays. On a poor punt, Davidson received the ball on Lenoir's 34-yard line. McComb hit center for four, and Sapp slipped around end for eight more and first down. Sapp made first down on two plays. Hewlett slipped under center for a touchdown. Hunt goal from placement. Davidson 35, Lenoir 0. After several exchanges of punts and an intercepted pass by both teams, Davidson got the ball on Lenoir's 46-yard line. McComb smashed for 14 yards through center.

Fourth Quarter

McComb made 15 yards and first down in two plays. McComb and Allen made first down over center. 39-0: McComb returned kick for 18. Covington made first down around end. McComb ran 12 yards around the same end. Covington and Allen made first down. Covington and Hunt made another first. After making four around end, Covington went for 12 and a touchdown over center. Hunt kicked goal. 45-0. After exchange, Allen returned a punt 15 to Lenoir's 49-yard line. Allen, Hunt, and Covington marched downfield for several first downs. Game ended as Allen went to Lenoir's 2 1/2-yard line.

"THERE’S A DIFFERENCE"

1st Q. 2nd Q. 3rd Q. 4th Q. Game
First downs earned 4 6 8 4 22
First downs on Penalties 0 0 0 0 0
Passes attempted 2 0 1 1 4
Passes completed 2 0 0 0 2
Passes intercepted 0 1 0 1 2
Ground gained passes 40 0 0 0 40
Ground gained ends 28 0 16 36 80
Ground gained tackle 6 4 15 0 25
Ground gained center 22 12 38 66 252
Ground loss scrimmage 6 6 7 3 22
Net gain scrimmage 172 93 163 456
Ground gained return punts 0 12 0 15 27
Ground gained return kick-offs 15 8 41 2 66Distance Punts — 22, 22, 22, 78, 47, 37, 57, 55, 30, 45, 25, 27, 26
Average Punts — 26, 24, 37.2, 37, 27, 45, 25, 34, 26
Distance Kickoffs — 30, 41, 50, 98, 30, 37, 42, 8, 110, 250
Penalties — 0

Total ground gained — 23, 225, 8, 17, 166, 0, 501, 40

An excellent proposition, a collection would be taken on Tuesday after chapel, so that there would be no delay in the purchase, since it was such. The owner of the wildcat was at once wired that his terms had been accepted and that the wildcat would be purchased immediately. The approaching event of the wildcat is hailed enthusiastically by the students. For despite Charley’s most devoted care and attention, the former wildcat from Florida’s everglades died here last summer after only a few months of captivity. It is hoped that his relation from North Carolina will prove a more hardy captive.

WADE LEGGETTE
Punting Halfback

Niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame

THIRD ROUND MATCHES IN TENNIS TOURNAMENT

With all the third round matches but one completed, the tennis tournament which has been under way the last two weeks is now drawing to a close. In the upper half, Parker and McCutcheon have come through to the semi-finals, while below, Crossland and Carr will be our probable semi-finalists who have not completed their round of matches. These four contestants between whom the championship lies are the logical members of the second team. However, they are subject to challenge for that honor by any player whom they have not met in the course of the tournament.

“Lias” has carved one of the deepest niches in the Wildcat Hall of Fame that has ever been carved. Faison was not a one-sided student, but was active in all branches of college activities as well as being a football star. He held numerous offices of trust in the student body, being President of the Junior Class, President of the Pan-Hellenic Council, President of the Athletic Association, and Vice-President of the Student Body.

ELIAS SAMPSON (“LIAS”) FAISON, ’24
Faison, N. C.

Faison played varsity football at Davidson for four years, making the coveted “D” in 1920, '21, '22, and '23. Lias was the only one of his class to make a letter in football in his Freshman year. He was the unanimous selection for all-state end in his senior year. His great defensive work was one of the brightest spots in the renowned game when Davidson held the famous V. P. I. Gobblers to a 7-7 tie. Time after time, Faison was the individual star of a game, and seldom was an end run completed around his flank. Faison was the most popular player on the field and the same held true on the campus or in the classroom. A more jolly, carefree, and helpful friend could hardly be found. He was a member of S. A. E. Fraternity and was a member of Omicron Delta Kappa Honorary Fraternity. Lias graduated in the class of '24 and is now studying medicine at the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. If Lias takes to medicine half as well as he does to the gridiron, he will someday be one of our greatest doctors.

FROM the college man’s point of view, clothing must be designed right. Halfway measures simply don’t get by. The new John Ward Shoes for Fall are designed right—just the styles and leathers college men want.

On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store Nov. 3rd

John Ward Men’s Shoes
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark, and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City

Hart Schaffner & Marx

Young Men Tell Us We've Scored A Bullseye

There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s vigor, life, ZIP in them.

Mellon’s

Line-up and summary follow:

Lenoir (0) Davidson (45)
Position
Left end — Hoover — Cox
Left tackle — Caldwell — Vance
Left guard — Rudisill — McConnell
Center — Roy — Boggs
Right guard — Beason — Teal
Right tackle — Seagle — Joy
Right end — Spears — Sappenfield
Quarterback — Miller — Sapp
Right halfback — Brown — Hendrix
Right halfback — Gresham — Black
Fullback — Bohannon — Covington

Touchdowns scored by Bohannon, Hendrix, Black, Covington (2), Hewlett. Field goal by Hunt. Points made after touchdown, Black (3), Hunt (3). Substitutions for Davidson: McAulay, Wells, Patterson, McComb, Sims, Lincoln, Hewlett, O'Neal, Allen, Hunt, Christian, Mitchell, Briggs, Covington, Anderson, Summers, Green, Christenberry; for Lenoir: Amick, Hood, Moretz, Conrad, Huffman, Fennell, Kirksey, Lopp, and Hoover. Officials: Referee, Izzard (W. and L.); umpire, Alexander (Wash. and J.); headlinesman, Harrill (Carolina).

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men