‘THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

Big Brown Bus Brings Bevy of Beautiful Belles Before Boys

A big motor bus of the type that sails easily and indifferently along the beautiful paved highways of North Carolina, drove into Davidson last Thursday, followed by a flurry of excitement such as seldom penetrates the tranquillity of the ancient little village. Even the recent appearance of the “Shenandoah”—the big U. S. Army Zeppelin—failed to cause such a thrill among the peace-loving students of this antique, yet modern college.

But, it wasn’t the bus, its awe-inspiring magnitude, nor its sheikish young pilot that sent such ecstasies of emotion running rampant through the mass of students that crowded the sidewalks of Main Street. Rather, it was the valuable and welcomed cargo that the big bus had transported from Charlotte—a cargo whose intrinsic value was realized and appreciated before the modern Leviathan of the highways had dashed breathlessly to a standstill.

The doors of the bus opened suddenly, and from within the mysterious depths of its tonneau poured forth a multitude of humans, of ethereal beauty and of the sex more commonly conceded to be the sillier. They had come to Davidson, after an extensive tour through the “Old North State,” flying the banner of the now-famous Greensboro College for Women and singing their way into the hearts of all who were lucky enough to hear them warble. They were members of the Greensboro College Glee Club, and, as friend Caesar or his Roman contemporaries would say, “they came, they saw, they conquered.”

Their performance, a dazzling, extravagant affair, filled the old rafters of Shearer Hall with an enchantment it had never known before. The vivacious chorus, the talented dramatists, the enthralling soloists, brought to an expectant audience of male beings the very “thrill of their lives.” But, the performance lasted only a few hours, and was only one of the minor cogs in the big machine that set Davidson afire. Their very presence on the campus, on the streets, in the hotel, were all instrumental in the downfall of our aged institution.

From the small, sylph-like young freshman woman, who sang soprano in the chorus, to the star soloist in the company, goes the credit for the unthought-of subjugation of the Davidson students—and the credit must be divided equally among the various artists who made up the personnel of the club. There were only two regrets in the hearts of the students who heard them sing—the first, a deep-rooted envy for Mr. Gilman F. Alexander, who by virtue of his musical excellence, was chosen to accompany the girls as director and chaperone on their tour; the second, a keen sorrow that the girls couldn't have remained indefinitely in Davidson and rendered their program at intervals of every two hours.

VACATION LOOMING BIG IN MINDS OF STUDENTS

“In the spring, a young man’s fancy, lightly turns to thoughts of Love.” But now that Thanksgiving is over the minds of the Davidson students are buried deep in thoughts and plans for the approaching Christmas holidays. Many plans are afoot and all indications point to the fact that the Hill will be entirely vacated. School closes on Thursday, December 18, and classes are over at one-thirty. This will enable the majority of the students to reach their homes by that night, primed for a merry Christmas.

Many plans are on foot as to mode of travel, but the most popular seems to be “bumming.” Many boys are pairing off and, the minute classes are over, will join the ranks of Weary Willie and Dusty Duke. Some of the boys are more fortunate in that their folks are planning to come to the Hill for a few days before school is out and drive home through the country. The rest will resort to the trains as being the quickest way to get home.

The students, who for reason of being too far from home and are thus prevented from returning for Christmas, have plans of spending the holidays with friends and relatives. This will enable all to enjoy the holidays to the utmost. Friday, the second of January, will find the boys back in their accustomed haunts, while some few may stay home to enjoy a day or so of extra pleasures but by Monday, January 5, the whole student body will be hard at work preparing for examinations, which follow soon after, holding in their hearts happy memories of a happy Christmas.

Literary Societies

Pandemic Society

At the regular meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society it was originally planned to have but one debate, but, due to a misunderstanding, Steele and Garrison prepared the affirmative side of the query, Resolved, That the State constabulary system should be adopted in the nation, while Gray and Franklin prepared the negative of Resolved, That the R. O. T. C. department should be taken out of the curriculum. It was finally decided that Steele should take the affirmative and Garrison the negative side of the first query, and that Franklin should uphold the affirmative and Gray the negative of the second query. This arrangement proved very successful. Steele won the affirmative side of the first query by a 3-0 vote, and Gray won the negative of the second query by a 12-1 vote.

L. L. Deck gave a very interesting summary of the events of the day. Armistice Day was the very appropriate subject of the oration ably delivered by C. M. S. McIlwaine.

Eumenean Society

The regular weekly question for debate was discussed at the last meeting of the Eumenean Society by W. W. Purdy and A. N. Moffett, constituting the affirmative, and W. C. Ogden and A. H. Copeland, of the negative, the judges’ decision going to the former. Three of the men on this debate spoke extemporaneously, substituting for absent members. Credits were awarded to these three. A declamation by J. H. Rosebery and an oration by W. C. Ramsey on Relativity added considerable interest to the program. Professor Wachter concluded the program with criticisms of the speeches of the evening.

Phi Society

The last meeting of the Phi was marked by the inauguration of new officers. After the president had called the house to order, the exercises were led by Alexander. Then the year just passed was reviewed by the various committees. The inaugural exercises were very impressive, the vice-president leading the president-elect to the chair, and retiring President Holshouser yielded the gavel to new President.Wells. Wells then delivered a short address in which he commended the society for its splendid record, and expressed a hope that the good work might go on. In the debate scheduled, Holshouser, affirmative, and Rington and Crinkley, negative. The decision committee, composed of Baker, Dickson, and Alexander, gave two votes to the affirmative and one to the negative. R. D. White delivered a splendid oration. During the business session, the Junior-Senior debate was mentioned, and the president urged all Junior and Senior members to try out for it. The meeting then adjourned.

Junior Metrophilian

The Junior Metrophilian Literary Society met for the last time this year last Wednesday night. The query for the evening debate was, Resolved, That the State constabulary system should be adopted throughout the United States. On the affirmative side were Weld and Smith. McRae and Powell defended the negative side of the question. At the end of the debate, the judges decided 2-1 in favor of the negative. O'Neal gave a declamation by Rudyard Kipling. After this, McPhaul gave some interesting current events. At the next meeting of the Senior Society, the Senior members will officially receive the Junior members, when there will be a debate between the Senior society and the Junior society. The query has not been selected for this debate, but it will be announced in a few days. There is some excellent material in the Junior society; some of the members are already good speakers, while others show prospects. The Junior society expects to give the Seniors a real fight when they clash.

Junior Eumenean

The Junior Eumenean Literary Society met last Tuesday night, with Paul Freeland, the newly elected president, in the chair. The roll call was sounded, after which Freeland read the scripture lesson. The house was then led in prayer by W. K. Gwin. The query for debate was, Resolved, That the State constabulary system be adopted by all states. The affirmative was upheld by Julian Lake, R. B. Miller, and D. H. Howland. The negative was upheld by Murchison, J. R. McCrarey, and J. M. L. Douglas. The judges, F. E. Debele, P. S. Tompkins, and R. M. Engle, rendered a 3-0 decision in favor of the affirmative. A vote on the decision was taken from the house which resulted in a majority in favor of the affirmative. Professor Wachter was present and presented to the society instructive and critical remarks which were appreciated.

Thanksgiving Day Ushers In Merry Time On the Hill

Thanksgiving, as it does every season, brings with it many happy and striking events. The same day last year, although it was full of celebration, cannot surpass what the students would make it this year. This occasion, which is marked by a whole holiday, and boxes from home overflowing with the delicacies of the season, promises to be one of the most jovial occasions of the year. The most prominent part of this year's Thanksgiving is, of course, the Davidson-Trinity game. The students have looked forward in many ways to this game. It is rumored that there will be a special, which rumor, if correct, means that there will be a large representation from the Wildcat kingdom. Should there be no special, this fact would not interfere with their expectation of seeing the game, as there are more ways than one to get there. And of course, every fellow will get a good Thanksgiving dinner at his boarding house on Tuesday night as that is the time that all the boarding houses serve that highly welcomed meal. Then, some of the fellows entertain the prospect of having that dinner at their homes. At any rate, there will be very few at Davidson on the 27th, who do not go to the game. Those who remain on the Hill will probably be found at Charlotte. Those who remain on the Hill will perhaps join with the townspeople in the Thanksgiving service at the church on that morning. The fitting climax of the whole occasion will be the week-end itself, when the campus will be adorned with various colored frocks. Those returning from the game and other places will perhaps bring some of these welcome visitors who will be on the campus for the week-end parties. These parties will mark the merriest part of the whole occasion. The game, if it turns out to be a win for Davidson, will lend to the merriment and thankfulness of the students at this Thanksgiving time.

THE KICK-OFF (Continued from page 2)

Good news is that next year Wake Forest will be back on the Davidson schedule following about 25 years of Baptist and Presbyterian clashes on the gridiron. Also, the coming of the Trinity and State elevens to Richardson Field will mean more record-breaking crowds. Much speculation is going on concerning whom Davidson will play in Clemson's place. Clemson could not be met on account of conflicting dates. Perhaps after another year or two of the Younger regime, Davidson will be able to take on Georgia Tech. (and we mean Georgia Tech., too).

After going through the entire football season without any predictions, the temptation cannot be resisted to “spot” a few teams in the Thanksgiving Day contest. We pick:

EAST—Penn over Cornell. Army over Navy.
SOUTH—Georgia over Alabama. Ga. Tech over Auburn. Furman over Clemson. Citadel over P. C. Vandy over Sewanee. W. & M. over Richmond. Mercer over Miss. Col. Florida over Drake. V. P. I. over V. M. I.
STATE—N. C. over Virginia. W. & L. over State. Wake Forest over S. C. Davidson? Trinity?

On the honor roll at Simpson College, of Indianola, Iowa, at the end of the semester, 126 names appeared on the honor roll. Nuff Sed.

The Greater Bon Marché
CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing, Dry Cleaning, Shoe Shine In Connection
Oldest, Largest, Best
CHARLOTTE Trade St.

“BOYS!” When in Statesville why not make headquarters at WALTER CULBRETH CO. VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

“She Notices the Cut” That's why you should patronize the Commercial Barber Shop STATESVILLE, N. C. NEXT DOOR TO POSTAL TELEGRAPH HEADQUARTERS!!

FOR FINE AND MEDIUM FURNITURE We give you good quality at Reasonable Prices NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO. PHONE 157 STATESVILLE, N. C.

“Wikase Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From? The Shelby Ice Cream Co. STATESVILLE, N. C.