THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........ Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........ Business Manager

Editorial Staff
W. E. MILTON........ Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........ Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. S........ Peanut Parcher Editor
J. A. BISA........ Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE........ Associate Editor
A. A. THOMPSON........ Associate Editor
C. MceSWAIN........ Subscription Manager
M. GARRISON........ Service Manager
W. S. GYAN........ Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
F. E. MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY
P. O'CONNOR
H. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGE
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
I. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES
D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

This issue marks the final appearance of the Davidsonian for the scholastic year 1923-24. Thirty-one issues have been published during the past year, and next year an effort will be made to edit one during each of the thirty-six weeks of school.

Money talks in the publication of the Davidsonian, and the new business manager has his ears wide open so as to catch even the faintest murmur. His work has at last begun, and from now until next June the destinies of the paper lie in his hands. He starts his term without the handicap with which former managers have been burdened. The Class of ’25 safely weathered the financial storms of Junior Speaking and emerged with a balance of eleven dollars in the treasury. Piggy Martin calculated the expenses and Zander McAlister with the aid of Bub Oeland collected the cash. A deficitless Speaking is an achievement of which the members of ’25 may well be proud.

The 1924 Quips and Cranks will come off of the press in the next few days. The staff of this year’s annual has had a hard road to travel. A nine hundred dollar debt from the previous year had to be paid, and a change in editors during the middle of the year was necessitated by the sickness of the editor. Despite all this, the annual will be out on time.

One of the best advertising mediums of the college this year has been the Glee Club. The Club has given concerts before audiences in the Carolinas and Georgia, and during its fall and spring trips has played before more than 25,000 spectators. The program which they have presented includes chorus selections, string quartet, quartet selections, solos, jazz and symphony orchestra selections, and several novelties.

The Y. M. C. A., Ministerial Band, Volunteer Band, and Near East Relief Committee of the College have also given the College a big boost before audiences all over the state. These three organizations have sent deputations to high schools and churches in every part of the state, from the east coast to the Blue Ridge mountains. The members of these deputations have carried, wherever they have gone, the spirit and ideals of Davidson.

Work on the South wing of Chambers building is progressing slowly but surely. Sometime next fall the first section of the new Chambers will be ready for use and classes will be held in it. Nearly three years have elapsed since the November night when Chambers burned. Since that time three dormitories housing double the number of boys who roomed in Chambers have been built, and soon the new Chambers will be a reality.

The campus of Davidson College is noted for its natural beauty. Few artificial changes have had to be made, but in the last few years due to the continual construction work on the campus, the grass has been destroyed in a great many places, and the beauty of the campus has been lessened. During the past year a concerted campaign for the improvement of the campus has been carried on and much has been accomplished. There yet remains a great deal to be done and it is up to us to co-operate with the authorities to make our campus more presentable.

Day after tomorrow the Seniors start on their examinations. This marks the final days of four years work. For the last time the men of ’24 will have a chance to shoot their professors. For a large number who are exempt from examinations the end comes tomorrow, but the others have still a little way to go. It is their final test. On the work of the next few days depends the success of four years of college life. We wish the men of ’24 every success, both during the test of the next few days and in their post-college life.

Carolina has annexed the State Championships in football, basketball, and track. N. C. State has the inside track in the race for baseball honors. Trinity, though defeated by the Wildcats on the mat, has an even claim with Carolina for the wrestler’s crown. On the tennis courts the Carolina doubles team carried off the honors, but a Davidson man, Harry Price, wins the honor of being the premier tennis player of the state. In winning the singles championship Price showed a wonderful fighting heart. Beaten in the first two sets, 4-6, 5-7, he came back in the next two and tied his finals match with Solomon of Carolina by winning 6-2, 6-0. Then in the final set Solomon took the lead 4-3 but Price after his game comeback was not to be beaten and took the next three games and the match. Price clinched his right to the title by defeating Solomon again in a dual meet with Carolina.

ON TO BLUE RIDGE

To the student of Davidson the Young People’s Conference at Blue Ridge, June 17-26, offers a great opportunity. The summer vacation offers a great many opportunities to every student of today. Instead of a period when the student tries to forget and unlearn all that he has acquired during the school year, the summer vacation should be a practical training school where he puts into practice the ideas of correct living which he has learned.

Last year seven Davidson students attended the Blue Ridge Conference. There they discussed the problems of Christian living with the leaders of religious thought of today. Each derived from the association and companionship, a clearer insight into practical Christianity. They were given the facts, and given an opportunity to face them squarely. They not only learned from these world leaders, but also from association with men from other colleges. This same opportunity is open to us again this year. One hundred and fifty schools and colleges from ten states have signified their intention of sending delegates to the conference. Davidson is included in the number. It is up to each of us individually whether we will take advantage of this opportunity or not. We should at least think twice about the Blue Ridge Conference before making our definite summer plans.

DEBATING

Our debating teams have had a successful year, winning two out of three varsity engagements and splitting even on the two freshman debates held. Washington and Lee and Emory lost to the Red and Black speakers while Trinity won a decision from Davidson. In the freshman debates the Wildcats won from Carolina and lost to Wake Forest in a triangle debate. The team which lost to Wake Forest was the only one of the negative teams to receive a single vote of the judges.

The student body has given the debating teams better support than has been accorded speakers in years. A capacity audience listened to the Washington and Lee debate, and a large number of students went to Queens for the Emory debate. In former years the debating teams have been financed by the literary societies of the college, but now debating has become a student body activity. The students voted an addition to the blanket fee to cover the cost of debates.

Great interest has been shown in the debate preliminaries. All of the preliminary contests for places on the teams were hotly contested. One fact, however, is noticeable: Not a single man has gone out for more than one debate. Formerly the debating council adopted the unwritten rule that no man should hold a place on more than one debating team a year, but their opinion has changed. Every team is open to anyone, whether he has debated previously or not. In many schools the policy is adopted of picking a good team and letting it debate two or more schools on the same subject. Such a policy is beneficial to the school, for experience is a great teacher and a team is usually better in its second engagement than in its first. This year we lose five men of the eight who represented us on the platform. New material is needed to fill their places. It is up to us to keep debating on the same high plane which it has occupied during the past year.

Chaff

VACATION AndNow, summer is almost here with us. From all reports of the trusty Swamp Root Almanac and all local prognosticators of weather signs, this coming season is going to be one of hot days, hot times, and hot tempers. Indeed, we believe in our trusty almanac to such an extent, that we forecast to a certainty the exact shade and color of the weather on any prescribed day one may mention. This should be of great help to our readers and they may avail themselves of the service by writing and enclosing a self-addressed and compressed envelope which will be answered free gratis for nothing. We have gone to a great expense in collecting data for our readers who may be touristically inclined, and we are hereby giving a few hints for routes that will lead to vacation happiness. Places mentioned below will prove of double-barrelled interest to all those with trips in view:

Atlantic City—This is a far-famed watering and likkering place noted for its waves, permanent and otherwise. One-piece bathing suits are in vogue this year, with plenty of sand in abundance. Boats are rented with a cruising radius of three miles, cheaply. Stop at the Hokum Hotel, Scandinavian plan, and enjoy the sea breezes and mosquitos.

Hollywood—This Mecca of frantic film fans is one of the jewels of our Western coast. Stars shine here day and night, and photographs are made free of charge. Parking facilities are unlimited and all unnecessary scandal is eliminated. See the Ferocious and Fierce Film Flappers in their native habitat. Aeroplanes parked free of charge. Cars extra.

Yellowstone Park—No need to bring your Blackstone with you to argue with the guides, they’re all foreign-born and think a tip is an insult. Set your watch by Old Faithful Geyser, and put off your annual bath until you reach the Hot Springs. Fish for sardines in the hotel sinks and get back to nature in the wild and wooly way. Dress suits rented for all Indian ceremonials, and baby parades held each month, the winners getting huge U-totem poles as prizes.

The Grand Canyon—Revel in the pure and unadulterated ozone of the Canyon, with its prismatic and effervescent cascades effusing their silvery sheen over the heterogeneous and multi-hued wind-carved caverns. Banish the perplexing problems of urban solicitudes and vibrate with the synchronized vocal emanations of the lordly stag and the golden eagle that thrusts his pinions into the ethereal blue to soar over unchartered and primeval wildernesses that protect their virgin fastnesses from human eyes. Good red likker only four berries per gal.

Salt Lake City—The old maid’s paradise on earth. Take your choice and avoid the rush boys. Dive for pearls in the Salt Lake, and salt your sugar right along. All cow-punchers are expected to watch and not scar the ballroom floors with their shooting. Free parking service for tourists; plain and fancy baggage smashing at cheap rates. Stock up with water here before going to Hollywood, as there is none at that place.

New York City—A nice hick town for Apple-Knockers. Avoid gold brick agents and don’t buy the Woolworth building. See Ellis Island and hear Long Island Sound. If suffering from insomnia, be sure to ride the elevated. Read Homer and see Babe Ruth knock a few for pastime. Be sure to see the house where the first saxophone was made, and also visit the big insane asylum next door. If your name is Smith, go up to Albany and shake hands with Al, he likes it. It is best to wear a red bandana around one’s neck to keep the dust from the neck. Be especially watchful and don’t sunburn your tonsils looking up at the high buildings.

Davidson—It is best not to come to this place if suffering from nervous diseases, as the noises of the city are mighty trying. Many points of scenic interest are at this quaint little city nestled at the foot of the Blue Ridge. Tread the concrete walks and recline beneath the shade of the drug store sign. Visit Main Street at night and see the gay white way at its worst. Notice the neatly uniformed police force and street cleaners, also the beautiful stores and antique shops. See the city zoo and aquarium. Leave all husband-seeking daughters behind.

For Those Who Remain at Home
In the event that you do not get to go on a vacation, the following suggestions may be of benefit. The recipe will be found to be nearly as good as the real thing. No guarantee is attached to this offer but it is hoped that it will please all concerned.

No. 1. Scatter hay on a medium-sized tin roof, and pitch your tent there. Mix thoroughly several handfuls of assorted bugs and beetles, shake a jar of mosquitos around, and turn two dogs and a cat loose on the tin. Wait until a nice-sized rain starts, then try to light a fire by the friction method. Crawl in the tent while wet and go to sleep. Result: The good old-fashioned camping spirit.

No. 2. Roll the family flivver into the dusty road. Resolve to stay there a week and fish for goldfish in the fishbowl. Eat only the fish caught and sleep on the springs; get water there too. No cussing aloud.

No. 3. Embark in a tin tub on the stock pond, freighted with poles, lines, bait, etc. Using a pocket handkerchief for a sail, cruise around in the sun all day without a hat, and chase away the pigs from the shallow water. This is nearly equivalent to a cruise on the Great Lakes.

NEW VERSE TO COLLEGE SONG IS SUGGESTED
O, DAVIDSON
The present words of O! Davidson are suited especially to athletic contests. The following words have been suggested to be used on other occasions:

Oh, Davidson, we will be true,
Your spirit thrills us through and through.
We love you ever,
Desert you never
For you are a great old school.
And going forth on every side,
Old Davidson, you'll be our pride,
For we will conquer as for you we sing:
Oh Davidson, you will find us
Ever true to be.
Oh Davidson, something binds us
Ever close to thee.
Fight on forever
From dawn to set of sun
Strong in the spirit of Old Davidson.
W. F. Gallaway, Jr., ’14.

With Other Editors
THE SOCIAL CENTER
Probably the biggest project attempted by students of the University of Richmond for several years is the proposed student social center compartment to be established in the Roger Millhiser Memorial Gymnasium. Rooms nicely furnished with pictures on the walls and plenty of comfortable furniture, a supply of stationery, a collection of magazines and college exchanges and access to a telephone, comprise a few of the advantages offered by such an arrangement. The importance of having some sort of social center building for students on every university campus is universally recognized. Young men are inclined to flock together like sheep and thrive best when an opportunity is offered to do so.

At this institution, there seems to be little hope for the erection of a complete social center building in the near future. Officials recognize the need, but believe that congested dormitory conditions should be given consideration first. For this reason, it is not likely that students now attending the University may expect to enjoy privileges to be offered by a social center building unless they take the initiative in the establishment of some place that will amply answer the present needs.

From all appearances, it seems best to promote the idea proposed and adopted at a recent meeting of the student body. The idea of arranging social center rooms in the gymnasium was approved and endorsed by officials and the Board of Trustees of the University. The Board of Trustees even went so far as to offer to meet the students dollar for dollar up to the amount of five hundred dollars for this project. The social center committee, which is composed of students representing the four classes, decided that it would not be asking too much for each member of the student body and faculty to contribute and give their full support to a project which will be worth at least several times its cost. The faculty have paid their share in full.

This undertaking is purely a student proposition. It has been started and the active campaign this week has placed the final goal almost in reach, but it is important that each student should take some part in the establishment of this recognized undertaking. Every young man at Richmond College should feel a desire to sacrifice some pleasures in order to make his contribution. The spirit should be established here that exists at many other institutions—the one that makes the students feel obliged to put something into the university. This social center proposal offers an excellent opportunity for the establishment of such a school spirit and attitude.

Fraternities, organizations and various clubs on the campus could undertake nothing better at the present time than to take hold of the social center project and assist in making it an immediate success. Why not make the enterprise one in which every student can feel that he sacrificed something in order to take part? To support a movement of this kind may involve a deprivation of a few pleasures temporarily, but the returns in value to the social life of the campus cannot be measured in terms of dollars and cents.—Richmond Collegian.