THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 13, 1924

VARSITY WRESTLING

Wrestling letters will be awarded within the next two weeks to the following men: Captain Lindamood, Selser, Cromartie, Cox, L.
P., Cox, W. D., Patterson, N. G., and Vance, according to action taken by the Athletic Council at a meeting
this week. The success of the wrestling team this year is largely attributed to the services of Coach Weems, who
will direct the mat men again next season.

INFIRMARY OCCUPANTS

Infirmary occupants during the past week were: J. C. Pressly, B. Y. Pitts, F. L. Wyche, L. H. Ham, Brown
McCallum, S. S. McNair, J. M. McAlpine, F. L. Short, M. A. Johnson, A. S. Wilkinson, D. G. Wilson, J.
J. Burnheart, L. D. Elkins. Misses Mary and Lizzie Young spent the weekend in Concord with relatives.

SHOWING AT DAVIDSON PARLOR OF WEST MONDAY, MARCH 17th

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT

Designed, comfortable, tailored with the care that ensures both smartness and heat from materials approved by experts. Dinner Suit (Shawl
collar or notch) $39.50. Manufactured and sold exclusively by NAT LUXENBERG & Bros. New address: N. W. Cor. 13th St.
New York City, 841 Broadway. Stuyvesant 9898. Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863
Broad St., Newark, N. J. Our style-memo book will be sent free on request.

VARIOUS TOWNS WILL BE VISITED BY GLEE CLUB

The “Wildcat songsters” unfortunately do not have the pleasure of anticipating another extensive tour as the one they had during
the past fall in South Carolina and Georgia, because of the faculty ruling allowing only one week each year for
such a tour. However, permission has been given to the club to give three concerts in some of the nearby
towns on any three Saturday nights that might best suit the club. The present plans are that concerts will be
given in Lenoir, Statesville, and Charlotte sometime in the near future. Many requests have come to the Glee Club to
present their program again here in Davidson. Due to the sudden illness of Wallace Purdy, the club’s pianist, the concert
that was scheduled just before examinations was postponed. The plan at present is that the club will again appear before
the student body, friends, and visitors just before or during the Easter holidays. The program will be changed in a
few respects and it is hoped that the singers and musicians will again hold the interest and furnish pleasure for
especially their fellow students and everyone else.

SENIOR CLASS INITIATES PROTECTIVE CAMPAIGN

At a recent meeting of the Senior Class, resolutions calling forth care and watchfulness in regard to the preservation of
the buildings on the campus were adopted. The Senior Class thus goes on record as being unanimously in favor of
treating the buildings on the campus with more care and consideration. The attention of the three other classes has been
brought to these resolutions, and favorable action has been taken by some of the classes. Such a condition should ensure
better care in the future. The condition in the past has been by no means so dangerous as to cause
alarm. Some students have nevertheless been rather free in their use of college property and have misused the articles entrusted
to them. This was due entirely to thoughtlessness and with a little thought and care about the conditions by each
individual student, the situation can be remedied.

METROS AND PANS SELECT FRESH-SOPH DELEGATES

On Monday night, March 3rd, the Metrophilians elected their team to compete for the annual Freshman-Sophomore honors. Those who will
represent the society are: Claude McIntosh, Robert McLeod as alternate. On Tuesday night, March 18th, this team will meet the
Pandeinic representatives in the first round of the semi-finals. The Pandeinic representatives were selected in the society preliminaries on Thursday
night, March 6th. Each of the speakers performed creditably and the team chosen was: Bordeaux, Milton, and H. L. Shaw,
with Rice as alternate. The Pandeinics and Metrophilians meet next Tuesday night. Due to numerous causes, the Eumencans and Philanthropics
have postponed their preliminaries. Therefore, the exact date of the final meet is uncertain but will be within the week
of March 16-20.

Y. M. C. A. SPONSORED TWO DEPUTATIONS LAST SUNDAY

There were two deputations last week, both from the Ministerial Band. The quartet composed of Piggy Martin, J. Ho, J.
A. Calligan, and D. H. Stewart went to McColl, S.C., and A. H. Hollingsworth went to Lexington, N. C. Saturday
afternoon the father of the Calligan boys, who is the pastor of the Presbyterian Church in McColl, motored up to
Davidson and carried the quartet back with him. The quartet had complete charge of one of the church services and
sang at several. They returned Monday afternoon after an enjoyable and successful deputation. A. H. Hollingsworth and Ted Jones were
in Lexington over Sunday. Ted Jones was the song leader at the First Presbyterian Church while Hollingsworth was on a
special deputation to the Decota Church. At Sunday School, he taught the Young Men’s Bible Class and at the evening
church service he made an impressive talk based on Gal. 2:20, “I live yet not I but Christ liveth in
me.” At the convict camp, A. N. Moffett made an interesting talk. Recently two Davidson students gave the camp a
Bible, which was appreciated by the men.

DR. MARTIN RETURNS FROM EASTERN BUSINESS TRIP

Last week Dr. W. J. Martin spent several days on an east trip to New York City and Washington, D.
C., attending to matters of business for Davidson College. The trip was taken primarily to see the Education Board at
New York in reference to endowment matters.

“It’s on even when it’s off” (Does this slogan about the Hinge-Cap deserve a prize? If not, what better one
can you suggest? Read our offer)

WILLIAMS is a wonderfully popular shaving cream. Here’s $250 in Prizes for the best sentence of ten words or less
on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the followingprizes: 1st prize, $100; 2nd prize, $50; two 3rd prizes,
$25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If
two or more persons are deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each.
Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of
slogans but write on one side of the paper only, putting name, address, college, and class at the top of
each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

Why:— It’s heavier, faster-working lather, the way it lubricates the path of the razor and eliminates painful friction, the soothing
ingredient which keeps the skin so smooth and cool even in daily shaving—these are qualities men like! They also like
its purity—no artificial coloring. With the new Hinge-Cap, Williams is winning more friends than ever before. See if you ever
used a shaving cream as good. Williams Shaving Cream.

The land Parker, and E. T. Pullen, with N. C. winding up of the two contracts of the Million Dollar
Campaign, that has been completed successfully under Dr. Martin’s supervision. Dr. Martin says that while he was at this conference,
he had an interesting talk with Captain Weem’s brother, Mr. P. V. H. Weems, who holds a high position with
the Government. He also had the pleasure of seeing the family of Mrs. J. S. Worth who lived at Davidson
for a long time, and is the owner of the home in which Captain Ellis now lives. The daughter of
Mrs. J. S. Worth is leaving sometime this month for South Africa to enter into Christian service. At Washington, Dr.
Martin spent most of his time visiting the offices of the War Department in regard to the R. O. T.
C. work which is being done here. Dr. Martin explained to the officials of the War Department the work that
is being done, and they were highly pleased with this unit, and declared their readiness to work in sympathy with
the Davidson unit.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS VISIT FIVE POINTS LAST SUNDAY

The rural Sunday Schools have the following reports for the past Sunday. A. C. Ray, Forest Franklin, Burns Gibbs, and
J. W. Crinkley attended Shearer. Five classes were taught. Franklin led the singing. The attendance was 37. Franklin and Gibbs
remained for the Christian Endeavor service at night. Claud McIntosh was the only student attending the Cornelius Sunday School. The
attendance was 72. Plans are being made to use the new church building soon. At the Mill Chapel, Mr. F.
L. Jackson, Marion Murray, and Wallace Purdy taught classes. An added feature of the service was a solo by Miss
Ellen Black. There were 30 present. W. A. Christian went to Hobson’s Chapel. There were about 20 present. Plans are
being considered of making this one of a group of four churches. Shearer is also to be in this group.
One regular pastor will be called to take them. Alfred Moffett, Joe Garrison, and the Deck brothers attended the services
at the convict camp. Moffett preached on the subject, God is Love.

SUNDAY SCHOOL REPORTS SHOW LARGE ATTENDANCE

The reports for the various Sunday School outposts were as follows:
Place Attendance
Cornelius 79
Shearer 44
Convict Camp 52
Mill Chapel 35
Total 210

At Cornelius, the students attending were Wade Allison, Tom Barr, and Marion Lyerly. At Shearer, Edwin Miller, Joe Gibbs, and
John Jones attended. The reports for the various Sunday School outposts were good last Sunday.

ANNOUNCEMENT

The Old Stand Open Once Again
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

Archie Ray and Crinkley were present. After Sunday School, Dr. Arbuckle talked on Stewardship. At night, the Christian Endeavor Society
had a consecration meeting. Wade Allison and Joe Gattis made a talk on “The Crucifixion of Christ.” The students aiding
him with the service were Piggy Martin, Alfred Moffett, and Albert Hillhouse. The men of the student body attending the
mill chapel were Marion Murray, Wallace Purdy, Yeargen, and Sim Bryant. These Sunday School reports of last Sunday are much
better than usual and are encouraging to the workers. While there are only five outposts which are being regularly attended
by the students of the college, yet there is an opportunity for other men who desire to attend these and
help in the work.

Barnette Hurd and Miss Sarah Hurd have returned to North Main Street after spending the winter in Georgia and Florida.
Miss Sarah spent the weekend with her sister Lois at N.C. C. W., Greensboro. W. M. Hunter spent several days
of last week with his family in Davidson.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From
SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
GREENSBORO, N.C.
A. W. McALISTER, Pres.
H. B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant-
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange for merchandise or merchandise and money,
such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices
for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490
