8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

TWELVE THOUSAND PLEDGES
(Continued from page 1)

will be used to build a new Chambers’ building. The college authorities are going to have the work started on the south wing of the building as soon as the corrected plans are in their possession and bids are received from the contractors. There was an unavoidable delay in the letting of the contract of the Chambers building because of the decision of the architect, Mr. Hibbs, of Nashville, that changes could be made in the plans of the building which would add to its beauty without any additional expense being incurred in its construction. These changes are almost completed and it is expected that work will be started on the building at an early date.

The Young Matrons Club was entertained by Mrs. Kenneth Foreman last Friday afternoon at four o’clock.

We Invite Your Business
LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE N. C.

“Nothing’s too good for my boy!” 
== What the “governor” says, goes! A Mellon outfit complete from head to toe. Everything college men wear-- real college men, not the cartoon variety as pictured in the comic supplements. Suits of attractive Spring, English and American fabrics-- coats on easy lines, high button, trousers fairly wide. Scotch Mist overcoats -- rainproof. Soft hats, caps, heavy brogue oxfords, unusual neckwear. Everything to give a well-dressed touch to a young man’s get up. Prices moderate.
MELLON’S

Garnered News

Student Volunteer Convention
Representatives from practically every college in the state will attend the annual state convention of the Student Volunteer Union to be held at Charlotte, March 7th to 9th inclusive. Fully 300 delegates are expected from the various educational institutions of the state, and an interesting and inspiring program is expected at Queens College where the influence and renown will deliver inspirational addresses. A. M. McBryde, a member of the present Senior class is treasurer of the organization.

Students vs. Smallpox
The cold shoulders presented to strangers coming into Davidson are nothing more than preventions against fondling of the sore arms with which all boys are acquainted. Smallpox made its appearance and vaccination forthwith became the fad. Sore tempers have been the result of some of the scratches and the infirmary has housed a few, among them being Martin Teague, R. G. Faucette, Harry Price, Niblock, J. J. Clark, Taylor, Kornegay, and Ernest Milton. The scare is rapidly passing off with the advent of vaccination although many say that they prefer the disease to the cure.

Dr. Sparks Addresses Students
Dr. Edwin E. Sparks, president-emeritus of Penn State College addressed the student body last Wednesday morning at the chapel period, in behalf of higher scholarship. He urged his hearers to think of the importance of keeping in mind the idea of coming to college, namely that of acquiring an education and fitting one’s self for the battles of life. His plea was for the building up of a system of higher scholarship in the colleges of America, and he depicted the results that will surely come from such an endeavor. He is making a tour of the South in the interest of his work. Dr. Arbuckle, a close friend of the speaker, introduced him to the audience.

Spring Football Practice
Coach Tex Tilson has returned from his home in Virginia to take up his duties here at Davidson. He will have charge of spring football practice while Coach now giving the Wildcats a clean sweep. The Wildcats are hard at work now preparing for the Virginia invasion.

LITERARY SOCIETIES ADOPT NEW PLAN FOR SPRING TERM
At the last meeting of the literary societies before the examination period, each of the four societies adopted the plan submitted by Alpha Phi Epsilon Literary Fraternity in regard to the programs of the societies for the spring term. A member of the fraternity from each society presented the plan at the regular meeting, and Professor Dendy also attended the meetings and spoke in behalf of the plan. TheThe plan was enthusiastically adopted by the societies. The plan was presented in full in a former issue of the Davidson. In brief, the plan follows. Each society is to be organized as a regularly constituted legislative body, maintaining the same officers as under the old plan. The regular debate of the evening is to be eliminated, and in its place an open discussion of a question brought up at a previous meeting will be held. The reviewer or critic in the societies is to decide whom, of those speaking during the meeting, shall be recommended for credit toward graduation. The meetings are to be held strictly in regard to rules of parliamentary procedure, and will serve the double purpose of increasing interest in literary society work, and providing better opportunity in the practice of rules of parliamentary procedure. Greater opportunity will also be given members to take part in the meetings, which will enable the members to gain more credits in a given time.

What a difference just a few cents make! Monk will devote his time to the other sports. The call for spring practice was issued last week and Monday about 60 men reported. This goes to prove that football is an all-year sport. Coach Tex states that practice will start right at the bottom and as soon as the men get hardened he will scrimmage them at least four times a week. The spring workout will last two months, through February and March. During this time the men will not be on training. As soon as basketball season is over certain football men who are now playing basketball will report for football practice. Owing to the condition of Richardson field the practice will take place on the Fresh field, golf links, and tennis courts. Of course, there will be many days when practice outdoors cannot be held but these days will be taken up with skull practice indoors. Along toward the latter part of the season there will be a game between a team composed of men who have been out for practice and a team made up of football men who are graduating this year.

Davidson Defeats Concord “Y”

In the opening wrestling match of the season January 31st, Davidson defeated Concord “Y” 21-0. N. G. Patterson, P. M. Patterson, and Lindamood won by falls and Selser and Houck won on time.

A. M. Statesville 8:00 Troutman 8:15 Mooresville 8:45 Davidson 9:00 Cornelius 9:05 Huntersville 9:20 CHARLOTTE — MOORESVILLE — STATESVILLE WHITE BUS LINE Leaves Charlotte Leaves Statesville For Further Information See Driver A. M. P. M. P. M. 10:30 1:00 5:30 11:10 1:40 6:10 11:25 1:55 6:25 11:30 2:00 6:30 11:45 2:15 6:45 12:15 2:50 7:15 12:30 3:05 7:30 A. M. P. M. P. M. 10:00 2:00 4:30 10:15 2:15 4:45 10:40 2:45 5:10 10:55 3:00 5:25 11:00 3:05 5:30 11:20 3:20 5:45 12:00 4:00 6:30

THE UNIVERSAL CAR

Forecasting A Tremendous Spring Demand

739,626 more Ford cars and trucks were produced last year than the previous year, an increase of over 50 per cent. In spite of this tremendous increase in production, it was impossible to meet delivery requirements during the spring and summer months when orders for 350,000 Ford Cars and Trucks could not be filled. This year winter buying for immediate delivery has been more active than ever before—and in addition 200,000 orders have already been booked through the Ford Weekly Purchase Plan for spring delivery. These facts clearly indicate that the demand during this spring and summer will be far greater than ever, and that orders should be placed immediately with Ford Dealers as a means of protection against delay in securing your Ford Car or Truck or Fordson Tractor. A small deposit down, with easy payments of the balance arranged, or your enrollment under the Ford Weekly Purchase Plan, will put your order on the preferred list for spring delivery.

See the Nearest Authorized Ford Dealer