THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

FROCK V. P. I. ON CINDER PATH BEAT TRINITY AT GREENSBORO

Wildcat Runners Open Season Against V. P. I.

WILDCAT RUNNERS OPEN SEASON AGAINST V. P. I.

Techmen Meet Davidson in First Track Meet on Richardson Field

The Wildcat track team will meet V. P. I. in the initial contest of the season, on Richardson field, April 3rd, at 3:30. Coach Ellis’ men have been working hard, and the trial meet held last week gives promise of a winning team this year. Captain Streibich will not be able to enter this meet on account of a sprained ankle he received in pole vaulting several days ago. He will be greatly missed, but there are several men who have made a creditable showing in his events, and can be used in this emergency. A great deal is going to depend on Gracey and Anderson, who will enter six and five events respectively. The V. P. I. team seems to be an unknown quantity so far, but whatever they may have, we expect a real fight Thursday. Judging from the trial meet, the following men will enter the respective events:

Hundred yard dash—Koenig, Hendrix and Smith.

FURNITURE and UNDERTAKING
Everything For The Home
WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES
CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

THE CAMBRIDGE
For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button.
A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN | Agents

220 yard dash—Smith and Green.
440 yard dash—Matthews, Hendrix and Green.
Half mile—Davis, Adams.
One mile—McConnell, Davis and Gudger.
Two miles—McBryde and Williford.
High hurdles—Gracey and Anderson.
Low hurdles—Anderson and Mallory.
High jump—Gracey and Anderson.
Pole vault—Gracey and Anderson.
Javelin—Gracey, Anderson and Mallory.
Discus—Cox and Gracey.
Shot put—Gracey and Long.

D.C.’s Awarded To Fresh Athletes In Two Sports
Sixteen Football Men and Six Basketball Players Receive Award

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, DC monograms were awarded to 16 Freshmen for their work in football, and to six for basketball. Those receiving the coveted letters in football are: C. G. Allen, Jr., E. F. Bohannon, Jr., W. A. Christian, Jr., L. C. R. Deck, H. G. Goodykoontz, W. O. Green, A. J. Hewlett, F. E. Hudgins, W. K. Johnson, W. H. Leggette, R. L. Lincoln, J. H. McConnell, R. L. Mitchell, J. F. Pinckney, H. O. Sapp, Zack Varnedoe.

The basketball DC men of the Fresh team are: T. F. Anderson, R. G. Faucette, A. J. Hewlett, F. E. Hudgins, H. O. Sapp and J. A. Simpson, Jr. These awards were made in accord with a recent action of the Athletic Association, when it was voted to award monograms containing the letters DC for outstanding work on the Freshman teams in the four major sports, including baseball, basketball, football, and track. This will be a great incentive to the Freshmen in their athletics. The awards in baseball and track will be made at the close of the seasons in those sports.

Union Seminary Tennis Team Plays Saturday
Woods and Spence, South Atlantic Champs Meet Staley and Price

Tom Spence and Edgar Woods, South Atlantic tennis champs, cross racquets with Tom Staley and Harry Price, on Saturday here on the Davidson courts. Union Seminary’s two-man team takes on the Red and Black lead-pair for two singles matches and a double encounter. Monday the other men of the Davidson team, Jim Trotter and Mac Beall, will finish the meeting with a similar triad of matches. Unique is this first home engagement of the season. The invaders are former Davidson men and it will not be a complete Wildcat defeat if the D. C. quartet falls before their onslaught. Another feature that ought to bring out court fans en masse is the opportunity of seeing the South Atlantic’s premier doubles team in action. Spence and Woods will give them an eyeful of tennis as it should be played. The Wildcat four with the practice they have been put through lately and the fine meet held with the Charlotte Country Club ought to be in prime condition for taking on these bear-cat former Wildcats. Harry Price has the same steadiness that accounts for his many wins, Tom Staley is showing flashes of his old-time form at the barrier, and Beall and Trotter both are getting more sting into their ground work, Mac with that mean chop and Jim with a forcing scoop drive. While it would be dodging certain dope to say that the Davidson racketeers have an edge on the Union Seminary veterans, still the local team is no mean aggregation, and when the last point is called the visitors will have met that same tough and ready game that the Wildcats always put up.

Miss Jane Baker, of Boston, Mass., was the guest of Miss Serah Lingle at her home on Concord Street last week. Miss Baker and Miss Lingle were close schoolmates at Smith College, where the former is still a student.

CROMARTIE WINS IN OLYMPIC TRYOUTS

A. D. Cromartie, captain of last year’s wrestling squad, won out last Saturday night in the finals of the Olympic tryouts of Virginia and the Carolinas, in the 128-pound class. Friday night, Cromartiewon from Clark, unattached, by a time advantage of nine minutes and thirty seconds. He won over Burtin, unattached, last Saturday in the finals with a time advantage of thirteen minutes and ten seconds. As a result of this victory, he will go to the finals to be held in New York early in June.

and combined Red and Black Tossers Meet Elon and Trinity Game With Blue Devils in Greensboro Features Week’s Play

The Wildcat lineup for the Elon and Trinity games will be strengthened by the return of Sion Alford to shortfield. Alford had his tonsils removed last week, but will be in shape for this week’s games. Elon comes here and the Wildcats meet Trinity in Greensboro on the 8th. Although Boushee was doped to pitch in Saturday’s game with Elon, or with Lenoir on Wednesday, he has been compelled to take it easy because of a sore arm. McPherson, a veteran in past years, who showed up well in the game Saturday with Oak Ridge, will probably pitch against Elon, with Potts as a good bet. The lineup will be as follows: Infield—Covington, on third; Alford, shortstop; Simpson, second; Smith, first, and Johnston, catcher. Outfield—Frank Alford, left field; Marrow, center, and Vance, right field; pitchers, McPherson or Potts. In the game with Trinity at Greensboro, Coach Monk will use the same lineup, with Boushee hurling. The team will make the trip in cars.

An announcement of interest is to the effect that Ed Brandon, former star player in the Virginia League, will probably umpire the games with Carolina, State, and Wake Forest. Coach Monk is confident that he has as good a defensive team as is in the state, their only weakness being at the bat. However, he says he expects that to improve with each game, and he is working toward that end.

Davidson Netmen Tie Match With Charlotte Country Club Team Splits Fifty-Fifty With Wildcat Four

Davidson’s court team split six matches last Saturday with the tennis representatives of the Charlotte Country Club, on the latter's courts in Charlotte. Harry Price and T. F. Staley each defeated his singles opponent; they triumphed over the C. C.’s lead-duo. Jim Trotter and Bill Murray succumbed to the attack of the other members of the Queen City group and this swung the balance of victories back to horizontal. Harry Price out-drove and out-placed Tom Hawkins, the Country Club’s Number One, running out the match in straight sets 6-4, 6-3. Tom Staley carried the fight to Dr. Sloan with his old-time whirlwind net-work. This also went to the Red and Black in a decisive way by 6-3, 6-2. Harry and Tom teamed to a win against Hawkins and Sloan after dropping the first set 4-6; the score, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3. Tom’s serve and Harry's steadiness proved the downfall of the C. C. men. Jim Trotter in his match with Turnbull played a well-rounded game, a game that barely failed of winning. The close score, 7-5, 5-7, 7-5, shows the splendid comeback he made, but couldn’t quite carry through. Bill Murray, serving as alternate in place of Mac Beall, carried his man to 11-9 before the Country Club player could put over set point. This match was discontinued and a doubles match begun. In this, Trotter and Murray went down to defeat before their opponents.

NEW PATH FROM SHEARER - NATURE OF EXPERIMENT

The new piece of pathway being laid from Shearer Hall to Main Street is largely an experiment. The college, realizing the poor condition of the walks across the campus, has authorized this experiment in view of future improvements on a large scale. This type of walk is said to cost more than the concrete type, but its other advantages outweigh those of the ordinary kind of walk. The sand and gravel of the surface, with the terra-cotta piping beneath, will carry off rain in the minimum of time, while the concrete and brick sides will keep the walk from washing away. The life of this latter type of walk is said to be longer than that of any other type.

BASCOMB SORRELS SECURED AS “Y” SPEAKER SUNDAY

The Y. M. C. A. program committee promises for the next three weeks, a number of good speakers. On April 6th, Bascomb Sorrells, who the members of the three upper classes know and respect, will address the “Y.” Last year Bascomb was president of the Senior Class and a leader in athletic and religious activities in every way. On April 13th, Rev. W. C. McLaughlin, a missionary from Suchien, China, will speak. Many will remember Mr. McLaughlin’s interesting talk in chapel recently. On April 20th, the new officers will be installed.

Mrs. Metcalf, of Denver, Colo., has been the guest of her cousin, Mrs. E. J. Erwin, during the last two weeks.

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see ELKINS & PRICE Davidsonian Office Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Quality Printers

SPORTING GOODS

Our Representative on the Campus The Commissary Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co. 18 E. Trade St. Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building