10 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 13

Town News

The Book-lovers’ Club will meet on Friday afternoon at 4:00 o’clock. Mrs. C. H. Hamilton will be in charge. Following the meeting, refreshments will be served.

Miss Jean Martin of Queens was at home for the weekend.

Score: Davidson 7, Clemson 0. First downs: Davidson 9, Clemson 1.

Third Quarter
Harmon returned Hunt’s kick-off 20 yards to his own 25-yard line. Davidson got the punt on their own 40-yard line and Captain Davis punted, Clemson getting the ball on the 28-yard line. Clemson lost 13 yards in three plays and punted. After two more exchanges, McConnell, Davidson center, intercepted a pass on his own 43-yard line, but neither team was able to gain consistently. The quarter ended as Sappenfield pivoted out of the arms of two tacklers.

Mrs. Reid has gone home to Oklahoma for a short visit.

Misses Dorothy Finlayson and Grace James were weekend guests of their friend, Miss Margaret Wilson, who lives in Charlotte.

The mother of Jim Hendrix has been on a visit to Mrs. Sally Paisly.

Mrs. F. L. Jackson will have as guests for the Carolina game Mrs. William Fetzer, of Chapel Hill; and Mr. and Mrs. Jack Sprunt, together with Miss Nanny McQueen.

Mr. Hood expects to receive her sister-in-law soon. Dr. and Mrs. McIlwaine, of Kochi, Japan, parents of Chalmers and Heber, are stopping with Prof. and Mrs. Foreman.

Mrs. Olin White entertained a number of friends at dinner on Saturday evening. The guests were Mesdames Lingle, Erwin, Douglas, Shewmake, Brown, Arbuckle, Richards, Robson, and Mrs. Thompson, of Roanoke, Va.

Mrs. Thies had as a weekend guest Miss Ethel Spaugh, of Winston-Salem.

Miss Nancy Gray, of Winthrop, was at home for the weekend.

Mrs. W. W. Wood was hostess to the Thelemite Club on Friday afternoon.

Mrs. Yates, sister to Mrs. Robson, has returned to Davidson from Virginia.

Miss Nina Holt White spent last weekend at Converse College.

Mrs. J. E. Montgomery spent the weekend with her parents, Mr. and Mrs. R. H. Henderson.

Master Richard Daugherty had a birthday party last Saturday.

We regret that there are two serious illnesses among the people of Davidson. The mother of Mr. Walter Henderson lies ill in a hospital at Franklin, N. C., while Mr. John Caldwell is seriously sick at home.

The members of the Senior C. E. Society enjoyed a ’possum hunt last Tuesday night. Although no game was caught, all enjoyed the trip.

WILDCATS SMEAR TIGERS (Continued from page 2)

Hendrix made nine yards in two plays and Black drove over center for the third straight first down. Clemson strengthened and Black's place-kick went wild. Clemson punted from their own 20-yard line to Sappenfield, who returned seven to Clemson’s 48-yard line. Hendrix went off right end for five and then around the other for 12 yards and a first down. Ball on Clemson’s 25-yard line. Hendrix hit tackle for two and Hunt drove for three more through center, grabbed a pass from Sappenfield, and raced 20 yards across Clemson’s goal line. Hunt place-kicks goal. Score: Davidson 7, Clemson 0.

Hendrix returned the kick-off for 20 yards to Davidson’s 25-yard line. On the second play, Black drove over tackle for 15 and a first down. Clemson stiffened and Captain Davis punted to Clemson’s 24-yard line. Clemson lost 15 yards on a bad pass and sprinted to mid-field, Sappenfield returning eight. Davis punted out of bounds on Clemson’s 20-yard line. Vance threw Clemson back for a six-yard loss and Harmon punted, Sappenfield returning eight. Black made seven yards over tackle and Jim Hendrix drove for a first down. The half ended as Black went for nine yards inside tackle. Davidson’s ball on Clemson’s 18-yard line, fourth and less than one.

Fourth Quarter
Hendrix carried the ball four yards over center to Clemson's 33-yard line. After an exchange, Sappenfield made another great return for 15 yards. The two teams exchanged punts in Clemson's territory, Vance finally recovering a fumble on the Tiger's 28-yard line. Hendrix made two over center and then sidestepped his way across the width of the field for 20 yards, the safety man rushing him out of bounds on the five-yard line. Davidson's line was unable to open holes and the ball went over as Clemson made a great stand. Davidson took the ball and Hendrix made seven yards on two plays but was forced to punt as Clemson stiffened. Clemson made the third first down of the game on a fake play. The game ended with Clemson’s ball on their own 40-yard line after the Davidson backs had grounded three passes. Fourth and 10 to go for Tigers. Score: Davidson 7, Clemson 0. First downs: Davidson 11, Clemson 3.

Clemson Position Davidson
Left end Davis
Left tackle Baker
Left guard Vance
Center McConnell
Right guard Anderson
Right tackle Pinkney
Right end Sappenfield
Quarterback Wells
Right half Hendrix
Left half Black
Fullback

Score by periods: Davidson 7, Clemson 0.

Substitutions—For Davidson: Hendrix for Wells, McAulay for Boggs, Summers for Anderson, McComb for Hunt, Cox for Pinkney.

LUCIAN WELLS
Another Davidson lad that leaped into fame last year against the Tar Heels.yard. —He is going strong now.

WALK-OVER’S FIFTIETH ANNIVERSARY: Walk-Over ing the program a two-course luncheon. Davidson is held and punts over goal line.

LEGION: The wide toe, short vamp, collegian oxford, in Polo Pony Tan.

Short vamps for wide trousers fellow. You see this one everywhere, young. It’s that new, wide toe oxford with the short vamp, that almost hides under your wide trousers—almost hides, but not quite. Nothing could hide the up-to-the-minute and a-little-ahead-of-that style in this new shoe. It’s a Walk-Over. That means that in addition to next week’s style, it has the comfort and long wear that the last half-century has taught Walk-Over how to put into shoes for men.

310 West--SULLIVAN BROS.--310 West COMPLETE LINE OF SAMPLES ALWAYS ON DISPLAY.

ney, Boggs for McAulay, Anderson for Summers, Wells for McComb, Hendrix for Hunt, Pinkney for Cox, Summers for Anderson, Lincoln for Baker, Laird for Lincoln. For Clemson: Bailes for Hane, Colbert for Bailes, Fewell for Roy, Bailey for Leitzey, Picklesheimer for Jackson, Robinson for Stewart, Smith for Williams, Mullins for Picklesheimer, Stewart for Robinson, Hanes for Mullin, Roy for Fewell, Robinson for Stewart, Fewell for Roy.

Scoring touch- GROUND GAINED DAVIDSON BACKS
110 Sappenfield: 83
Black: 59
Hunt: 48
Wells: 19
Motales: 315
down, Hendrix; point after touchdown, Black. First downs: Davidson 11, Clemson 3. Officials: Hartsell (N. C. State), referee; Osborne (Wofford), umpire; Perry (Sewanee), headlinesman.

S. WILKES DENDY (Continued from page 1)

the attitude towards life in the city of Rome.” Mr. Dendy continued his talk to show how Christ’s ministry and life may influence our lives. There are three salient effects it has or may have. One of these is the restoration of man through the atonement of Christ to his former likeness of God. Once we were lost but are now sanctified and have the power to know Him. “Christ can and does replace sin by the healing power of His loveliness,” stated the speaker. “The Kingdom in which we are joint heirs with Christ has no boundaries. Earth with her thousand voices praises God. How much the more should we praise Him. “He raises us from pauperism to princeliness. Too many of God's children are sluggish and lazy because they have not been roused to realize they can talk with a King. “There are American women too who are pouring tea when they might be saving oriental girls; American men who throw away their talents in easy living who might be leaders in the upbuilding of nations and provinces. “Christ showed us the value and dignity of the human soul. Everyone has a mission in life. There is some way in which you may glorify God. “Can you,” he asked in conclusion, “look into the face of Christ, get His smile of approval, and then go out and witness for Him?”

As a special musical feature the K. K. K. of the Glee Club gave one selection, “Drifting.” Monk and Moffett offered short prayers during the opening exercises and Bryant led the union singing.

WADE LEGGETTE: Wildcat punter who was out of Clemson game on account of injuries of State game.

ORIGINAL ONE-ACT PLAYS (Continued from page 1)

Williams (J. H. Hall), gets religion at a camp meeting and the way in which they are reconciled is the story. The additional characters are Bud Bowman (B. U. Ratchford), Harris (W. I. Howell), and Thorpe (R. B. Parker). The scene is laid in a mountain cabin in Avery County, North Carolina. The last play to be presented is Blue Blood. The scene is in a newspaper office in Elliston, Miss., where the plot, based on sectional prejudice, is worked out. Paul Courtney (A. M. Martin) falls in love with Mildred Buford (Katherine Matthews), who has dropped into town from the North. Paul’s Aunt, Helen Courteney (Nina Holt White), is a very aristocratic old lady and opposes the match. The other two parts, those of Andy and Buck Saunders, are played by the author, C. F. Smith, and L. L. Deck.

“FIRE” GALORE WILL BE ON THE HILL SATURDAY

If next Saturday afternoon comes halfway up to expectations, the load of “fire” on the campus will make Junior Speaking and Commencement weeks look like the south side of a desert island on the Fourth of July. There will be frocks and rumors of frocks. They will be all over the campus, thicker than Fresh caps, each one swinging onto some poor bird who is worried to death from wondering how long he will have to do without a coffin tack in order that he may pay up all debts caused by said bit of humanity’s visit to the Wildcats’ lair. Each fair damsel will have both the honor and the privilege of having the time-honored “fire,” yelled and re-yelled at her as she walks to and fro over the campus. If it is the first time that she has heard the greeting, it will make her blush and become self-conscious, but if she has been a visitor here before she will pass by, ignoring the wild yells of the irresponsible bird who is sad because his girl was unable to be up for the big time, and who delights in bumfuzzling the bird who is his fellow sufferer at all times other than Homecoming Day.

Dr. Hugh White, of China, father of Henry Martin White, ’24, was on the Hill last week.