THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

COLLEGIATE SPORTS

WOFFORD PUTS UP A STUBBORN DEFENSE

Hendrix rolls over goal line, beating Red Baker, teammate, to it by several inches. Black made perfect place kick. After
kick-off Hendrix got seven yards dead and Teddie Covington raced around right end for several yards, the blast of the
referee's whistle called time for the first half as quarter ended.

Fourth Quarter

The last half was played entirely in the Wofford territory, and except for the last few seconds of play, the
Wofford crew never got the ball outside of their own 30-yard line. Leggette’s and Sapp's punting with a strengthening line
held the Sandlapper’s deep in dangerous territory. One of Henry Sapp’s boots rolled a little for a total distance of
70 yards. The two kickers averaged 39 from the line of scrimmage. Captain Davis at various times showed clear head-work.
The whole Davidson line played a great defensive game, but offensive was somewhat slow compared to previous games. The Wofford
forwards had all Wildcat plays spotted and showed a well-built defensive team. The South Carolinians were clearly outclassed, getting two
out of their three first downs in the last 15 seconds of play for first downs. The Davidson team as
usual suffered heavily from penalties.

Line-up and summary:

Davidson (7) Position Wofford (0)
Davie (C) Left end Thaxton
Baker Left tackle Knox
Vance Left guard McDowell
McConnell Center Rickard (C)
Summers Right guard Bohannon
Sappenfield Right tackle Sapp
Pressley Right end Hill
Black Quarterback Bell
Leggette Left halfback West
Sapp Right halfback Black
Boggs Fullback Bell

Score by quarters:
Davidson 0 0 7 0—7
Wofford 0 0 0 0—0

Touchdown scored by Boggs; point kicked by Black. Substitutions—Davidson: Hendrix for Sappenfield, McAulay for Boggs, Pinkney for Bohannon, Covington for
Sapp, Bohannon for Pinkney, Wells for Hendrix. For Wofford: Dean for West, Alexander for Lawton, Folk for Bell, Alexander for
Rickard, Habel for Thaxton. Officials—Referee: Beaty (Sewanee); umpire: Hartsell (State); head linesman: Alexander (W. and J.).

First Quarter

The first half opened with Black kicking to the Wofford seven-yard line. The Davidson line held the Wofford backs with
Vance going through to throw them for losses. West punted out of bounds on the Davidson 55-yard line. Davidson lost
the ball on fumble. Black intercepted a pass on Davidson's 38-yard line. The two teams evenly exchanged punts three times.
The quarter ended with the ball on the Davidson line.

Second Quarter

On third play Black again intercepted a pass and ran for 10 yards to Wofford’s 48-yard line. Davidson evenly exchanged
punts, Leggette and Black made first down; Leggette punted to Wofford three-yard line as Baker and Davis downed the West.
Wofford recovered on their 10-yard line. Big Summers blocked Wofford punt, McConnell recovering ball on Wofford 32-yard line. Davidson opened
up with Hendrix running around ends and Black and Leggette going through lines for two first downs and carrying ball
to one-foot line. The half ended before Davidson was able to score fourth down on Wofford six-yard line.

Third Quarter

Black kicked off to West, who returned for 24 yards. Davidson held Terriers and got ball on 35-yard line after
punt. After splitting center for five yards and failing by inches to get off pass Black placed a kick from
35-yard line, ball striking upper goal posts and bouncing back for touchdown. Wofford’s ball on 20-yard line. Vance drove through
to throw Terrier back for three yards loss. A play off tackle gained three. West's attempted punt was blocked by
Boggs who dived for ball as it rolled over goal line, beating Red Baker, teammate, to it by several inches.
Black made perfect place kick. After kick-off Hendrix got seven yards dead and Teddie Covington raced around right end for
several yards, the blast of the referee's whistle called time for the first half as quarter ended.

ASSISTANT CHEER LEADER CHOSEN FOR PRESENT YEAR

Frank Hudson and C. F. Monk were elected assistant cheer leaders at a meeting of the student body Friday morning
following the regular chapel exercises. Those placed in nomination by the athletic council were all of the present Junior class:
D. G. Wilson, A. B. Clayton, Frank Hudson, C. F. Monk, and L. L. Deck. Next year the cheer leader
will be either Hudson or Monk. The plan at present is to elect from five men who worked in their
Sophomore year.

“LEST WE FORGET”

1st 2nd 3rd 4th Total
Davidson 0 0 7 0—7
Wofford 0 0 0 0—0

Passes attempted 1 2 4 2 1 10
Passes completed 0 0 1 0 0 1
Passes intercepted 0 1 0 1 0 2
Ground gained, passes 0 0 5 0 0 5
Ground gained, end runs 4 2 22 0 15 43
Ground gained, tackle 1 1 3 7 0 12
Ground gained, center 7 4 35 0 21 67
Ground lost from scrimmage 0 4 1 1 1 7
Net gain scrimmage 12 43 62 2 53 170
Number punts 4 4 2 3 3 16
Length punts 154 179 86 48 114 581
Average length punts 39 45 43 24 44 39
Return punts 0 10 8 7 21 46
Average return punts 0 3 2 2 7 4
Length kick-off 43 0 0 0 20 63
Return kick-offs 0 15 0 0 22 37
Penalties 15 20 15 20 0 70
Net ground gained 12 43 62 2 53 170
Total ground gained 12 50 63 3 54 182

Soph and Senior Teams Win First Class Games

Loop Season Starts as Junior and Freshmen Teams Lose 31-29 and 26-25

Displaying flashy form, the Sophomores crushed the Juniors in the initial game of the class basketball season on Tuesday night,
to the count of 32-29. The Sophs gained an early lead which their rivals threatened several times but never displayed
quite the necessary punch. The three-point victory margin resulted from superior foul shooting; the number of field goals was the
same, 12 each. Individual featuring was absent from the game, but the Sophomores excelled in teamwork and accurate passing.than their
opponents.

Summary:
Sophomores (32) — Position, Faucette (14)
Juniors (29) — Huie (12), Wiser (4), Lawson (5), Cooke (6)
Center — Krodralise (1)
Right guard — Oden (4)
Left guard — Simpson (2)
Substitutes — Sophomores: Rawson (Georgia)
Referee: Goodykoontz.

Senior-Fresh
In a nip-and-tuck fracas abounding in thrills, the plucky Senior quint humbled the hopeful Fresh aggregation on Thursday night to
the close score of 26-25. Two extra periods were necessary to finally determine the victor. In the final period, both
teams went on the warpath and the contest soon assumed the aspect of a gridiron struggle. Both quints showed a
serious lack of practice. Nevertheless, the game was unusually fast for the first of the season. The stellar guarding and
all-round playing of Harry Price, the Senior captain, was the individual feature of the contest.

Score:
Seniors (26) — Position, Freshmen (25)
Mathews (6) — Right forward — Milner (5)
Sinley (8) — Left forward — Holt (4)
Wharten — Center — Wilson (2)
Price (6) — Right guard — Mills (6)
Protter (0) — Left guard — Taylor
Substitute — Seniors: Oeland, Grey, Currie, Smith (8)
Referee: McConnell (Davidson)

Freshmen: year two as assistant cheerleaders in their Junior year and then the cheerleader to be selected from these two.
Simp Bryant is the cheerleader for 1924-25.

VARSITY WRESTLING TEAM LOSES THREE CAPTAINS
The wrestling team suffered a severe blow in the loss of three star men this year. Captain Lindamood, Captain-elect Selser,
and Cromartie, captain of the 1922-23 team, did not return. These three men were very valuable to the team as
they were always able to give an account of themselves in the toughest matches. The squad this year will be
composed almost entirely of new men and these will need good coaching and training to whip a good team into
shape. There is a large amount of material in school and the team is expected to be equally as good
if not better than the one of last year. All of the men who were on the squad last year
and have returned are very much improved. Coach Weems is very eager to have a number of Freshmen out for
the team as there is certain to be some good material. This is one of the few sports on the
Hill that Freshmen can participate in intercollegiate meets. The schedule has not been definitely settled yet but there is certain
to be one meet before Christmas. There will be several good meets during the holidays for the team, including the
journey to Annapolis. There they will meet the Naval Academy. Manager Patterson promises several other good meets with other colleges.

DAVIDSON SQUAD LEAVES
Following four days after the game with the heavy Lenoir squad on Saturday and with barely a day of practice
in between, comes the annual clash with Coach Laval’s Furman University team. For the second time in the football history
of the two colleges, this game between the Wildcats and the Purple Hurricane will be a big attraction of the
South Carolina Fair, being played at noon on Wednesday of next week. Last year Coach Younger’s inexperienced squad bowed before
the great team of Laval 30-0 in the Sandlapper capital city. This year the Davidson team will be stronger than
formerly while the strength of Furman is comparatively unknown. The record of Furman this fall is considerably different from that
of Davidson, the games being played against teams of high rank. Coach Laval won his initial contest with Newberry, 12-0,
and dropped the two following games to Alabama, 20-0, and Mercer, 23-0. He has built a great defensive team, according
to South Carolina newspapers. Should Davidson win this game the two schools will be tied in games won and lost,
Furman having chalked up five victories to Davidson’s four. The Davidson team will leave for Columbia on Tuesday, October 21
and will remain over to see the great Clemson-South Carolina battle on Thursday.

The record follows:
1902 — Davidson 0, Furman 6
1915 — Davidson 58, Furman 13
1916 — Davidson 46, Furman 14
1917 — Davidson 28, Furman 7
1919 — Davidson 41, Furman 14
1920 — Davidson 0, Furman 28
1921 — Davidson 0, Furman 28
1922 — Davidson 10, Furman 13
Total — Davidson 193, Furman 102

New York Cafe
29 West Trade St.
The Decent Place to Eat
Davidson Men Always Welcome

WILDKITTENS FIGHT IN SANDLAPPER STATE TODAY
The 1924 Wildkittens, still growling for more meat after defeating Wingate by such a large score last Thursday afternoon, journey
to Clinton, S.C., Wednesday afternoon of this week where they meet the strong P.C. Fresh team Thursday afternoon at 4
o'clock. Coach Rawson, 18 men and a manager, are making this trip, which Coach says will be a battle royal;
for from all reports the P.C. Fresh team is a good one this year. Five of the men on the
team played on the strong Thornwell Orphanage team last year, and since their coach this year came from Thornwell to
P.C., and is coaching the Fresh team there, these five men will help to make up a right formidable team.
Barring incidents, the lineup for Thursday will be composed of the following men: Melton, left end; Ritchie, left tackle; McNiel,
left guard; Laws, center; Gray, right guard; Gibson, right tackle; Arrowood, right end; Wilson, or Grey (captain), quarterback; Nesbit, halfback;
Overton, halfback; and Sutton, fullback. Officials for the game will be: Major (Clemson), referee; Todd (Furman), umpire; Reames (Clemson), head-linesman.

“Y” CONGREGATION
(Continued from page 1)
est friendships of which we have record and may be compared to the matchless friendship of David and Jonathan. It
is what should be developed among you men in college. The friendships you make now will mean more to you
in years to come than any other phase of your college course. The companionship in work brought Paul and Titus
to the place where they naturally depended on each other. Paul’s confidence in him was such that he could say,
‘I could place my soul in the palm of your hand and know it was safe.” Then Dr. Raynal said
that there were certain reasons why these things were true. It arose from the fact that Titus was a worker,
a man who believed in work. There was a time when the church at Corinth grew so burdensome that Timothy
couldn't handle it. Then Paul sent Titus to Corinth to assist in the work. “This epistle of Paul to Titus
is all-revealing,” continued the speaker, “that Titus was a man of action, a man of ability, a man to be
trusted, a man who worked and who did it without being told to do so. The work of the world
in days to come must be done by the men who see their tasks, and go at them, even when
it seems they have no help, no support, and that they are facing their tasks alone.” The speaker closed by
urging that each do his work with all his might in college, in the church, in the world, or in
the home, for the world is tired of drones and there is always a place for a man who will
take up a task humbly and do it to the best of his ability. The music was led by Piggy
Martin. The Glee Club Quartet gave a special number. Phil Cox and Buck Shaw led in prayer.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
