THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

© Exchanges

To Save Doomed Battleship

William B. Shearer is making an appeal against Curtis D. Wilbur to restrain him from sinking the super-dreadnaught “Washington,” in
accordance with the treaty providing for scrapping of capital ships. The “Washington” is about 85 per cent complete and has
cost the American people about thirty-five million dollars. She is one of the new American first-line battleships, scrapping was provided
for in the Conference naval limitation treaty. Mr. Shearer states that the treaty concerning capital ships to be scrapped or
destroyed is “not in force or legal.” The spirit of the treaty is in question, in consideration of the British
and Japanese naval programs, he states.—Queens Blues.

Consideration of the interests of “Bo” Railey, Mercer’s sociology professor, came to the surface at Monday night’s meeting of the
Ciceronian literary society when a proposition that bachelors be taxed for support of an Old Maid’s Home was defeated in
debate.—Mercer Cluster.

It is a policy of the University of Florida to maintain a Commons and dormitories on the campus accommodating approximately
400 students, and by efficient management and supervision on the part of Auditor Kline H. Graham, this service is rendered
at an absolute cost plus replacement expense.—Florida Alligator.

A bill advocating the establishment of athletic relationships anew between Auburn and Alabama was introduced and passed by both the
House of Representatives and Senate of Alabama in a session last year. The plan called for the playing of a
game, the funds to be equally divided between the two institutions to go to the purpose of building a stadium
at each in memory of the World War and those killed in action in France during the late war. The
bill passed both Houses, was signed by the governor, and was favorably received by the University authorities but Auburn officials
and alumni did not think it advisable. The matter now stands at this point.—Crimson-White (Ala.)

The Ideal Fifty-Cent Gift

For neat appearance, the great aid to success. Keep your hair combed all day with LO-CO (Gloss-Comb) THE ORIGINAL LIQUID
HAIR DRESS

Real Men and Boys

Send for Sample Bottle

Mail coupon and 10c for generous trial bottle. Normany Products Co., 6511 McKinley Av., Los Angeles, Cal.

The Hill Will be Silent and Deserted When Boys Go Home For the Christmas Holidays

Student Body Requests Golden Rule Observance

Boarding Houses Unite With Village in Securing “Near East” Menu

Exeunt grits and steak! Enter bread and soup! The observance of “Golden Rule Sunday” in Davidson last Sunday interrupted temporarily
the long and undisputed reign of grits and steak as the esteemed rulers of the Davidson menu. The announcement of
a frugal Sunday dinner caused a run on the Student Store Sunday night, and brought an unprecedented number of boys
out to Sunday breakfast.

Last year as a means of raising funds for the Near East Relief “Golden Rule Sunday” was inaugurated in the
United States. The people were asked to put themselves in the position of the Armenian orphans by dispensing with the
regular Sunday dinner and substituting a typical orphan dinner of bread and soup. This was done in order that the
people by a very modified experience might better realize the actual condition of these stricken people and so be prompted
to more liberal giving, and also that the money actually saved by having this cheaper meal might be given to
this worthy cause. Last year it was very well observed in Davidson, and this year it was even more generally
observed by the town people and, at the direction of the students, by the college boarding houses.

Last Friday morning at a meeting of the student body the students voted their approval of the Golden Rule Sunday,
and decided to have the different boarding houses either serve a light meal or dispense with dinner altogether. John Yonan
made a talk in behalf of the Near East Relief cause, in which he gave a very graphic and interesting
description from first-hand information of conditions existing among the Armenian people. Some of the boarding houses served the prescribed meal
of soup and bread, while others served a plain dinner without meat or dessert, and still others dispensed with the
mid-day meal altogether. Next Sunday, the churches will take up a collection by which time the estimated savings, made possible
by this self-denial, will be contributed.

ALASKAN EXPLORER

(Continued from page 1)

The churches have also reached the people of Alaska with school and church work. Mr. Raines spoke of one school
being located at Point Barrow, the last outpost of the human race in that land of snow and ice. The
coal fields of Alaska would supply the entire world for a period of 100 years, said Mr. Raines. It is
interesting to note that the reindeer industry alone nets annually a significant amount.

Local Scribe Vividly Depicts Joys Awaiting Those Who Hit for Home Sweet Home

One week from today! O Bab-ee! Just seven little spaces of 24 hours each, and every inmate of this institution
for bright little boys will be on the long, long trail that leads to Home, Sweet Home. And each and
every little mammia’s boy has figured out just what he will do when he sees his girl for the first
time after this awful absence of three months. The annual half-dozen Christmas cards have been bought and paid for; the
present for “her” has been tucked away, and the last page of the well-thumbed and worn calendar has been turned.
Old Sandy Claws in new Bible and only about three Greek—the Linguistic Slough of Despond—to “jack” up, and then it
will be home again, for yours truly.

The fellows are going to use different methods to reach the old home town. Of course the trains will take
most of them, but others are going to try to get there in a U-Push-It, and the chances are ten-to-one
that they will make it.

Davidson Men Contribute to Library’s New Books

Miss Shaw Announces List of New Books Received by College Library

Volume VII of The Poets of the Future has just been received by the Library. In this anthology for 1922-1924,
more than 200 colleges are represented, including this college. The volume includes one poem from Davidson, And You Shall Say?
by Edmund P. O'Connor, ‘26. Among those which are mentioned as poems of distinction are the following:

My Heart Is An Elfin Child, by W. F. Gallaway, Jr., ’24.
The Sanctuary, by Arthur Martin, '25.
As We See It, by Paul M. Patterson, ’25.
A Wish for '26, by C. F. Smith, '26.Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

Some of the books in the library which are of special interest to college students:

828 Bennett, Arnold. B471L. Literary Taste and How to Form It.
804 Kerfoot, J. B., K39 How To Read. 1916
804 Kuhns, Oscar, K961 Love of Books and Reading. 1910
804 Pritchard, F. H., P91 Training in Literary Appreciation. 1924
804 Pryde, David, P173 What Books to Read, and How to Read. 1912
804 Smith, Charles Alphonso, S644 What Can Literature Do For Me? 1924
828 Van Dyke, Henry, V248 Counsel Upon the Reading of Books. 1900

HOW TO STUDY

153 Adams, John, A214 Making the Most of One's Mind. 1915
155 Kitson, H. D., K62 How to Use Your Mind. 1921
155 Lyman, R. L., L986 Mind at Work. 1924
155 Swain, George F., S971 How to Study (paper). 1917

In her best dress, with her more, they will be pushing it before they reach the old city limits or
any other familiar sights. Still others are going to try their hands at the art of bumming. They sincerely believe—some
of them, at least—that in this way they will be able to beat the old train home. Those who try
to bum home have the best of wishes of each man in the student body, and everyone hopes that all
the knights of the road reach home on schedule time, and that they will have just as merry a Christmas
as the rest of the fellows.

Some of the boys who start out on the trains will go as far as they can on the “steam
cyars,” and then they will have to take to the old buggy, wagon, or maybe, shanks’ mares, to propel them
the rest of the way home. Not all of the fellows are going home, though. Some of them live too
far away, and the vacation period is so short that they will have to remain on the campus during that
period. Although it will not be at all as good as getting to go home for the holidays, they will
have a very good time on the “Hill,” for the members of the faculty and the townspeople always treat in
a royal way the men who remain here, and it is a most enjoyable time that all of them experience.

Besides all of the “fire” that is in the town at present, all of the college “fires” come home for
the Yuletide, and the little village is always in a whirl of merriment from the time they arrive until the
time that the train bears them away again. There are parties galore, ‘possum hunts, dinners, and almost every form of
entertainment, and then just think, you don’t have to get up in the mornings until you want to. Boy, that’s
what you call a grand and glorious feeling. Being able to go to a big party at night, come back
and crawl in bed and read until about 3:00 a.m., and then know that you can sleep until dinnertime or
later if you want to. That’s the life for 15 long days, and every fellow staying here can imagine himself
a man of leisure, for he will not be rudely awakened from his beauty sleep by the ringing of the
bell, but he can stay in dreamland until he desires to get up and go down to Proctor and Gamble’s
Dead Letter Office to get that big box of eats and presents that he knows is waiting for him.

Chief Chaplain Speaks Before R. O. T. C. Unit

Col. J. T. Axton Reviews Local Battalion—Is Father of Mrs. Daugherity

Following a review held in his honor yesterday by the Military department of Davidson College, Col. John T. Axton, Chief
of Chaplain Corps, U.S. Army, spoke to the students who are members of the local R. O. T. C. unit.
Born in Utah, Colonel Axton studied for the ministry of the Congregational Church and for a time served as Y.
M. C. A. Secretary in Salt Lake City. In 1902 he entered the army with the rank of Captain in
the Chaplain Corps. During the World War he had charge of all welfare activities at Port of Embarkment, Hoboken; at
Camp Merrit, N.J.; and at Camp Mills, Long Island. When Congress passed a law creating the office of Chief Chaplain
in 1919, Colonel Axton was appointed to that office and has held it continuously since that time. In connection with
his work he has been in Atlanta, Ga., to attend the National Council of Churches. Colonel Axton will visit his
daughter, Mrs. Anna Axton Daugherity, wife of Captain Daugherity who is on duty with the R. O. T. C. unit
at Davidson. For the Christmas holidays he plans to return to Davidson with his wife and two daughters from Washington,
D. C. Colonel Axton holds the D.D. degree from Middlebury College, Vt., and Elon College, N. C. He was awarded
the Distinguished Service Medal for meritorious service at the time of the World War.

Hart Schaffner & Marx

Young Men Tell Us We’ve Scored a Bullseye

There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s
vigor, life, ZIP in them.

Mellon’s

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

---
