THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 15, 1924

Carolina Netmen Appear On Courts Here Saturday
May Decide Superiority of Two Teams—Even So Far

The Wildcat has demonstrated its ability against Carolina, playing her to a tie on Carolina courts on May 5. To
win, Davidson must fight, for on Carolina’s team is Solomon, who was runner-up in the state finals, along with Smith,
Fuller, and Whitaker, all of whom are real tennis players. To oppose these men, Davidson presents three men who have
taken Carolina’s measure in the singles, and on the home court, she should be able to win one of the
doubles, thereby sending Carolina back in defeat. Price and Staley, in their doubles with the Winston-Salem pair, went down in
defeat after playing brilliant tennis, winning 19 games and losing 21. If they can continue this good work on Saturday,
the chances are Carolina will lose at least one of the doubles matches. This is to be the last chance
at Carolina this year, and it is up to the student body to support the team.

GREENSBORO VISITED BY DAVIDSON DEPUTATION
D. B. Wharton and A. H. Hollingsworth conducted the regular night services at the Church by the Side of the
Road, Greensboro, N. C., last Sunday. Their text dealt with “Life Dedication.” The appeal was directed chiefly to the young
people of the congregation, but there were many older folks present too. Although the weather was very unfavorable, a good
number turned out to hear the Davidson men. Hollingsworth followed with an appeal to the young people to accept the
challenge offered by their Lord. Lacy McAlister, '20, presided over the meeting.

Polity Club Links With Southern Organization
At its final session for the year, on last Friday night, the Davidson chapter of the International Relations Clubs ratified
the constitution of the Southern Students’ Association on International Relations, thereby automatically becoming a charter member of the association. This
new association was formally inaugurated at a conference recently held in Greenville, S. C., at which the leading colleges and
universities of the South were represented.

Blue Ridge Offers Many Attractions To Its Visitors
Situated in the picturesque mountains of Western North Carolina, within sight and hiking distance of some of the world's most
famous scenery, the Blue Ridge Association grounds offer an ideal location for the annual Southern Students’ Conference of the Y.
M. C. A. The rough, rugged mountains, the beautiful valleys, the glorious sunsets, the deep solitudes of the towering forests,
the clear streams of icy water and misty falls, all combine to make this an ideal environment for a gathering
of hundreds of young people from three-score Southern colleges, students seeking God in the great out-of-doors. Every day hikes and
mountain climbs are organized; parties set out to reach the summit of Mount Mitchell, the highest peak east of the
Rockies; others to Klingman’s Dome, nearly as high; Chimney Rock, a great freak of nature, rises within the vicinity. Often
parties go out just as dusk is falling, climb some peak, build a campfire, and after several hours of talk,
wrap up in blankets for a night beneath the skies, rising in the morning for a sight of the sun
emerging from behind the distant hills. Added to these grandeurs is the variety and type of the flora—a challenge to
every lover of nature. Notwithstanding this wonderful array of naturally attractive recreational advantages, the conference has secured the services of
a coach from one of the Southern colleges to plan and direct all athletic contests and to ensure the best
use of everyone’s time along this line. Tournaments are held in tennis, basketball, and baseball. A swimming meet is held,
along with a wrestling meet and a track meet. All contests are intercollegiate, and the teams are made up to
represent the colleges from which the students come. Despite the small delegation from Davidson last year, the Red and Black
teams showed up well, with the tennis team reaching the semi-finals and Norman Patterson winning out in the middle-weight wrestling
and almost throwing the veteran Poindexter in the heavier class. The entire afternoon, from 2:30 till supper, is given over
to athletics, but often the tennis courts are busy until dark.

EARLY FOOTBALL PRACTICE STARTS FIRST SEPTEMBER
Early football practice will begin next fall on September 1, with about 40 men to get down to work and
make a real Wildcat squad. Both coaches will be here to whip them into shape. Coach Monk predicts a good
workout and a successful season; the prospects more than double that of last fall as there were two letter men
back for the line this year, while next fall there will be six letter men to fight for the tackle
and guard positions, beside new material. Captain Davis and Baker will be here to uphold the ends. With the exception
of Shepherd, the whole backfield is expected back. Regular workout will be begun at the start, and the squads will
have several scrimmages before school opens. With the new field in shape, there will be ample room for the teams
to go through thorough practice. To add to the comfort of the men, the two top floors of East have
been secured for football men only, which will increase the morale of the team. The men who are expected up
for early practice are: Hendrix, Black, Wells, Sapp, Sappenfield, Covington, Hunt, Buck, Leggette, Allen, Goodykoontz, Johnston, Farrell, Woodham, for backfield;
Captain Davis, Baker, Cox, O'Neal, Crayton, Covington, and others for the line.

Cross-Country Trips—Hike Into Canada and Voyages Planned
Dr. Lingle’s tour of Europe, and several other trips this summer, will scatter Davidson men over quite a large area.
Besides these, there are several men that are going to Europe by various means, largely by positions on ships. To
date, Dr. Lingle has four men from Davidson who are certain of making the trip. This party will leave New
York sometime about the middle of June and will spend the entire summer touring the continent. The men going on
this trip are A. T. Rowe, J. S. Millner, C. W. Williams, and E. E. Lingle. There are two trips
being planned for the cross-continent tour this year. One party will be made up of J. I. Smith, J. W.
Anderson, J. H. Patton, and R. W. Oeland. They plan to leave Chattanooga on Friday, June 13, in a Ford,
and follow the southern route. Their trip will take them through Atlanta, Louisiana, Dallas, into Mexico for a short distance,
and to California on the outward trip. After visiting Oregon, Washington, and going over to Vancouver, B. C., they will
return via Salt Lake City, Denver, Omaha, Kansas City, and St. Louis. J. B. Hunter and J. W. DeArmon are
also planning somewhat the same trip. Both parties are going in Fords and plan to get back to the East
about the end of August. There are other parties that are talking plans, but as yet they have come to
nothing definite.and the swimming pool is alive with young people when the sun is scarcely up. “The popularity of the
after-supper half-hour song-fest last year assures its having a permanent place on the program again this year.” At this time
all the students gather for a “College Sing” and the whole place is enlivened with college songs from all over
the South. Dramatics are very popular and the girls from the Southern colleges usually put on some play, while the
boys entertain with a black-face minstrel. If one should go to Blue Ridge for fun, pleasure, and athletics, he would
get all he wants, but there are many other advantages of great importance in the spiritual development as well as
in the physical development. Miss Elizabeth Grey, who at present is in training for a nurse at Johns Hopkins Hospital
of New York, will spend a few days with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey. Miss Grey expects
to graduate in the near future. Dr. F. P. Price, father of Harry Price, will be in Davidson the first
of next week. Dr. Price is one of the leading missionaries of the Southern Presbyterian Church in China. Plans are
made for a hoboing trip to Canada and back this summer. Leaving Davidson immediately after commencement, they will go to
Washington, then cut off towards Pittsburgh, Erie, and to the Niagara Falls. From thence they go to New York and
back probably to Martinstown, Maryland, via Philadelphia. This trip will take about a month and will be done entirely by
“bumming” rides. Europe, going right after commencement. He has a position on a ship. S. Faison is also expecting to
go to Europe.

CHEMICAL FRATERNITY MEN HAVE MUCH TALK AND EATS

On Friday night, May 9, the Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chemical Fraternity held its annual open meeting in its hall in
the Chemical building. To this meeting were invited those students of chemistry who have shown most interest in that subject.
The program was of great interest to all chemistry students. After the close of the regular business meeting, Prof. O.
J. Thies, Jr., gave a talk on the original research work that he is doing toward an M.A. degree at
Cornell. Next, some facts were given by members of the fraternity concerning Davidson graduates that have made successes in Chemistry
since leaving here. F. C. Thames then spoke on the work that he has done during the past year toward
his M.A. degree. Thames has been attempting to isolate the curative compound of paper oil. The products derived from coal
were then discussed by J. M. Williams, who showed the great number of compounds that may be obtained from this
unexpected source. The last number on the program was a most interesting talk by Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, who gave
an account of the work he had done that led to his establishment of the atomic weight of the metal
Cadmium while doing research work at Johns Hopkins University for his Ph.D. degree. After partaking of a most enjoyable feed,
the meeting adjourned.

The only other deputation Sunday was sent to Shearer Chapel. Joe Garrison managed this one. The originators of the association
stated as its prime purpose: “To more closely unite those Southern students who were vitally interested in International Relations.” J.
H. Davis and J. L. McLean represented the local club. The conference signally honored Mr. Davis and his college when
it adopted bodily as the regular constitution for the new association the tentative constitution which he presented. The local club
is rated among the strongest and most aggressive in the entire South. To the college itself, it has rendered valuable
service in presenting gratis to the student body at frequent intervals lecturers nationally noted as keen students of international affairs.

LUXENBERG CLOTHES Talk No. 4

It may seem amusing, but new acquaintances ask us questions like these: “Will these suits shrink?” “Are they all wool?”
“Will the color run?” “How can you fellows sell a good suit for $37.50 when we have to pay $60
to $70 for this grade elsewhere?” Why shouldn’t we be able to give a good suit for the price, when
we sell on a cash basis only, without any charge accounts, no deliveries, no bad debts, or sundry expenses?

RAWSON REPORTS ABBEVILLE TO PILOT LEAGUE TEAM

Coach Rawson, the able mentor of the Wildkittens, left last week for Abbeville, S. C., where he will act as
player-manager. With several years of experience behind him in the leagues in this part of the country, Rawson will be
ably suited for piloting this team. He is also a player of no mean ability, and will in all probability
hold down the receiving end of the battery. Flake Laird, Davidson's mainstay in pitching for the past season, is also
going to the South Carolina town. Besides taking his share of the pitching, he will act as general utility man,
a position that he will fill very well. Laird does not report until after commencement.

(No. 4 of a series of talks with tips for men who dress well.)

To take care of our growing trade, we have been compelled to open branches at 863 Broad Street, Newark, N.
J. Home store, as always, 841 Broadway, New York City.

NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Dyeing Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection Largest Oldest Best 8 E. Trade
St. CHARLOTTE Pressing

A Class Distinction

The Hinge-Cap is the insignia of Williams Shaving Cream and of Williams only. You'll notice three things about Williams every
time you shave. 1. Williams lather is heavier and holds the moisture in against the beard. Quicker and more thorough
softening takes place. 2. Williams lather lubricates your skin — your razor actually seems to “glide” the hairs off. 3.
Williams lather leaves the skin in marvelously fine condition. No matter how frequently you shave, your face stays cool, smooth
and comfortable. You'll enjoy every shave with Williams. It is a pure, natural-white cream without any artificial coloring whatsoever.

Williams Shaving Cream

The Williams Hinge-Cap is “on even when it’s off.” You can’t lose it, and the tube hangs up!

The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.
