THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 28, 1924.

AS-YOU-WERE!

Efforts to find the date of the above picture were unsuccessful, so don’t ask the staff to name the members of the group!

Here and There

1892—Rev. W. L. Walker recently resigned as pastor of the First Baptist Church of Danville, Ky., to take an important Baptist charge at Emporia, Ohio.

1897—J. H. Hall, of Statesville, spent Sunday on the hill visiting his son, J. H. Hall, Jr., '27.

1903—Rev. A. R. McQueen is making a great success as director of a campaign to raise $150,000.00 for Flora Macdonald College.

1906—Alexander James was on the hill last week, visiting friends.

1907—Rev. J. E. Hemphill has changed his address from Atlanta, Ga., to Petersburg, Va., care of Tabb Street Presbyterian Church. On the second Sunday in April, Rev. W. C. McLaughlin, of Suchien, China, will preach at the Davidson Church and speak before the Y. M. C. A.

1909—John (Jessee) James, former Dean of Chicora College in Columbia, is now practicing law in Charlotte, N. C.

1915—Louis Anderson, who is in business at Anderson, S. C., visited on the campus during the last week.

1916—Dr. T. J. Sparrow, of Charlotte, N. C., was on the hill last week for the Kappa Alpha initiation.

1917—David V. Hudson was married to Miss Margaret Elizabeth Grove recently. They are now living at 1720 East Madison St., Baltimore, Md.

1918—An interesting letter has just been received from Rev. O. C. Williamson, now located at Chilpancingo, Mexico, in which he says although the outcome of the revolution is still uncertain, yet the mission work is still going on as usual. Travel and the mail are much impeded because of the uncertain condition of the country in general. Not being in the war zone, he added, made them comparatively safe. The main trouble, he states, is getting funds through with which to carry on the work. Rev. W. B. Knox, formerly of North Fork, W. Va., has recently moved to Cooleemee, N. C., to take up a group of churches there. Henry T. Lilly, who spent last year studying abroad, has accepted a professorship in the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. He will take up his work there at the opening of college next fall.

1919—E. G. Lilly at present holds the Moses Hoge Fellowship at Union Theological Seminary.

1920—T. W. Hawkins, of Charlotte, who is practicing law there, assisted in the Kappa Alpha initiation during the past week.

1922—All Davidson alumni for the past six or seven years will be surprised and interested to learn of the marriage of Sam Story to Miss Vivian Crawford on February 2nd, at Asheboro, N. C.

1923—R. M. McGirt, G. B. Sorrells, and W. A. Gamble visited friends on the hill during the past week. Gamble made an address before the Volunteer Band on Sunday afternoon.

1926—Frank Barron, ex-'26, now a student at the University of S. C., was on the hill last week for the Beta Theta Pi initiation ceremonies. A. M. Sinclair, ex-'26, now in business in Charlotte, N. C., spent a few days on the hill during the past week.

DAVIDSON ONE OF THIRTY ACCREDITED SCHOOLS

(Continued from page 1)

land, the Catholic University of America in Washington City, Washington and Lee and William and Mary in Virginia, Trinity and Davidson in North Carolina, Vanderbilt and University of the South in Tennessee, Centre in Kentucky, Tulane in Louisiana, Washington University, Drury, and William Jewell in Missouri. Of the 30 colleges in the South that are on the approved list, it will be observed that five are located in Virginia, four in Missouri, three each in North Carolina and Tennessee, two each in Maryland, Washington City, Georgia, and Kentucky, and one in each of seven states. There is no institution of any kind on the approved list in the states of Delaware, South Carolina, and Mississippi. There are other institutions in the South that are doing excellent work and making steady progress year by year, and we have little doubt but that three or four others may properly claim admission to the approved list in the next year or two.

THOS. W. LINGLE.

Who Knows?

Davidson College students formerly had to walk to Mount Mourne for their mail. At that time the receiverpaid the postage, the charge for a letter being 25 cents. Until 1841 the students of Davidson College not only had to keep their rooms in order and cut their own wood, but they were compelled to work either on the college farm or at some trade for a certain period of time each day. Morrison Hall, now occupied by the Biology and R.O.T.C. departments, was the first building to be erected on the campus of a southern college for the use of the Y.M.C.A. The first floor of the building, which is now used as the armory, was a gymnasium. There was also a reading room and a parlor, which were furnished by Mrs. Shearer. Baseball was once forbidden at Davidson on the ground that it “involved a de- 

In 1900-01, the first year Davidson had an outside coach, seven out of eight football games were won, among them being a 36-6 victory over Georgia Tech. The original colors of Davidson were pink and blue until 1885 when the present colors, red and black, were adopted. The Eumenean Literary Society, when it was first organized in 1837, was called the Polemic Debating Society. The following year its name was changed. The movement for society buildings was started in 1842 by a member of the Eumenean Society, but it was several years before the consent of the faculty could be obtained to take this step. Our night watchmen are not the first our college has had. From 1845 to 1856, a student doing this work was paid fifty cents for each night he worked. The bricks which were used in building the original Chambers Building were made of clay on the college land, the stone used came from a quarry near Concord.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The Red and Black basketball team broke even on the last four games of the trip through Virginia and eastern North Carolina, winning from Trinity and losing to Guilford and Roanoke. The game with Trinity was especially good, Davidson upsetting dope that was against her three to one, and defeating Trinity 20 to 19 for her first loss on the home floor in three years. The three stars of the team were Schenck, Chalmers, and McAskill. The R.O.T.C. Unit was organized on February 24, 1910 under the direction of Lieut.-Col. Mueller. Uniforms had to be worn every day until the military duty was over, and there were five drills per week for the four companies of the battalion.

Baseball practice had started with about 30 candidates, nine of them letter men, out for positions. Clarke and Currie were the old men working out for the pitcher’s place. The 1919 football schedule was almost completed, and contained many hard games. Some of the teams to be played were: Washington and Lee, Carolina, Georgia Tech, University of South Carolina, and V.M.I. Dr. F.C. Myers, of the First Presbyterian Church of Greensboro, and his quartet completed the annual evangelistic meeting conducted by the Y.M.C.A. during the week. The preaching and singing were both fine, and all were sorry to see Dr. Myers leave.

In the mind of every serious thinking college man there arises a question—“What am I going to do after graduation?” This question presents a serious crisis. It demands a definite decision. In an unusual degree, the Life Insurance business combines the opportunity for conspicuous business success with the opportunity for real social service. Here is a profession that is eminently worthy of consideration. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Changed From SOUTHERN LIFE & TRUST CO.
Greensboro, N.C.
A.W. McALISTER, Pres.
H.B. GUNTER, Ag’cy Mgr.

VICTROLAS
New Records Weekly
VICTOR AND BRUNSWICK
GIBSON MANDOLINS AND GUITARS
CONN CORNETS, TROMBONES AND SAXOPHONES
LUDWIG DRUMS
PLAYER PIANO ROLLS
SHEET MUSIC
Will Handle Deferred Payment Accounts
ANDREWS MUSIC STORE, Inc.
CHARLOTTE

Mr. Merchant—
Have You a Policy That Protects You Against BAD CHECKS?
We issue a FRAUD BOND which protects you against such checks given in exchange for merchandise or merchandise and money, such check being drawn on a bank in the city in which your place of business is located. The prices for this protection are $25 or $40. Ask for further information. Call Mr. Stitt at
INSURANCE DEPARTMENT
Independence Trust Co.
Phone 3490