THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

The Reel Stuff

The picture at the Gym Saturday night will be “The Love Piker,” with Anita Stewart. Here is the story:

Hope Warner, speeding along in her expensive roadster, becomes aware that she is being pursued and drives at a more reckless pace.

At a sharp turn in the road, Hope finds herself face to face with a traffic officer. Indignant that anyone should stop her—she considers herself a very superior person—she is about to protest when the other car comes tearing up and Martin Van Huisen, the young fellow driving, hands her a sable scarf, explaining that it had fallen from her car some 20 miles back.

Court proceedings, next morning, divulge the fact that Hope is the daughter of Martin’s employer. They are fined twenty dollars each for speeding and Hope is forced to accept a loan from Martin. Hope is interested in Martin. She persuades her father to take her to the building being constructed under Martin's supervision. Hope saunters off on the scaffolding despite Martin’s warning to be careful. When she realizes her perilous position she almost topples off, but Martin rushes to catch her.

Hope and Martin become good friends. It is not long before Hope announces that she is engaged to Martin Van Huisen. This news upsets her mother. Hope's loyalty to Martin is put to a test when he brings her to meet his father, Peter Van Huisen, who lives in the tenement district. Prosperity had come to Martin after the death of his mother, so he never had the courage to uproot his father from the old home. Later when invitations to their wedding are being sent out, Hope tears up the invitation intended for Martin's father.

When her wedding day arrives her conscience keeps troubling her about the lonely old man who has not been asked to attend his son’s wedding. By the time she is dressed she can endure it no longer. She slips into a waiting car and hurries to Peter. Of course, the old man is pleased to learn his son is not ashamed of him, for Hope confesses her action.

DR. W. D. MELTON TO BE COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER

President of South Carolina Secured for Annual Literary Address on June 3rd

Dr. W. D. Melton, president of the University of South Carolina, has been secured to make the annual commencement literary address in Shearer Hall, Tuesday, June 3rd, at 12:15 p.m. Dr. Melton is widely known as a speaker, and Davidson is fortunate in securing him for this occasion.

Dr. Melton is a native of Chester, S.C., and for many years was located in Columbia, where he was a very successful practicing attorney. He is widely interested in all public affairs, educational and church work. When the trustees of the University of South Carolina found it necessary to choose a new president for that institution they selected Dr. Melton, believing that because of his character and persistent influence he would be able to carry out an administration of progress and development, supported by the people and the state government. Although he has been in office only three years, the university has already shown a marked increase in attendance and numerous new buildings are in the course of construction or are being planned.

SUNDAY ATTENDANCE AT RURAL CHURCHES GOOD

At the rural Sunday Schools for April 6th the attendance and interest was good. Seven students from the college helped in teaching classes at Shearer. The attendance was 62. After Sunday School, Rev. F. A. Barnes preached on the text, Forgive Us Our Debts As We Forgive Our Debtors. G. R. Simms and L. B. Gibbs stayed over for the Christian Endeavor service at night.

There were 87 present at the Cornelius Sunday School. Three new officers were installed at the church service. Dr. M. E. Sentelle aided in the installation.

Four men from the student body attended the service at the convict camp. A. N. Moffett talked on the subject, The Samaritan Woman at the Well. There were 52 present.

Dr. Arbuckle took A. C. Slaymaker and W. A. Christian to Hobson’s Chapel. The attendance was 30. There was another service after Sunday School at which Dr. Arbuckle made a talk.

At the Mill Chapel, W. W. Purdy, Claud McIntosh, and M. C. Yeargen taught classes. There were 28 present. Miss Ellen Black favored the meeting with a solo.

FOR FORTHCOMING DEBATES

One Team to Meet Carolina Fresh Here While Other Clashes With Wake Forest

The Freshman intercollegiate debating team has been steadily improving for the past few weeks.past few weeks under the coaching of Professors Dendy and Brown. A practice debate between the affirmative team, composed of Branch, C. Williams, and Stewart, and the negative, composed of L. Williams, Wharton, and Erwin, was held last Tuesday night for the purpose of getting the point of the opposition before each team. This has proved a great help to the teams. On April 15th, the final debate will take place. The affirmative team, remaining at home, will meet Carolina in Shearer Hall, while the negative team will meet Wake Carolina for an exchange of issues, and it is hoped that they will consent, as this is the only way to definitely insure a clash of argument. The query to be discussed, Resolved: That the Philippine Islands should be given their complete and immediate independence, is one of importance to the nation at the present time. The Filipinos are loudly clamoring for freedom and the United States must take some definite stand on the independence question. The “Woods-Forbes Report” has in the last few years brought the topic squarely before the American public and it has been a prominent and popular subject for debate. The Freshmen have spent much time in preparation and their backers are expecting a nice array of scalps to hang from the Fresh wigwam.

NINE FRESHMEN INITIATED AT REPORTERS’ CLUB FEED

Austin, Branch, Covington, Jones, Lynch, McIlwaine, McMillan, Wharton, and Woods Taken in

At the regular meeting of the Reporters’ Club at the gymnasium last Friday night, the nine men who were elected to the club two L. D. Wharton, R. H. McIlwaine, P. F. Jones, W. H. Branch, G. McMillan, Jr., and H. C. Austin. After the initiation was over, a feed was spread, and for over an hour everyone was busy. The committee in charge had prepared a variety of choice sandwiches and fruits, and the ice cream which was served topped off the menu. After the repast was over, speeches were made. Hurd talked especially to the new men who had been just taken in, telling them that they must do all within their power to aid in the Chong. McIlwaine, in his talk, expressed his thanks to each man who had helped him during the past year and asked for the support of the Reporters’ Club during the coming year in helping to make the Davidsonian. K. S. McAlpin told of the needs of the Davidsonian. He said that we need advertisers to help run our paper, and that if we expect to get more of them we must patronize them. “The more fellows on the Hill who patronize those who advertise in our paper, the more advertising we will get,” said McAlpin. After the speeches, the new members were sworn in and the meeting was adjourned.

RACQUETEERS WILL MEET COLGATE HERE MONDAY

On Monday, April 14th, the Wildcat tennis team will meet the tennis team of Colgate University. The matches will be played here on the home courts. Last year Colgate’s team was rated among the five biggest and Yale. An admission of 15 cents will be charged. On Thursday, April 10th, the Fresh team will play the Varsity. McCutchen, Moose, and Beall have been chosen to represent the Fresh team. The second round of the tournament has not been run off yet on account of the inclement weather. It is hoped that it will soon be finished. The courts have not been in good shape on account of the bad weather and are likely to be cut up if they are played on before they are entirely dry.

MINISTERIAL BAND SENDS OUT MANY DEPUTATIONS

The Ministerial Band Quartette has gone on several deputations in the last few weeks. On Sunday, March 30th, they conducted services in Mooresville. The people there were most cordial and made each member of the quartette have a fine time. On the same Sunday, A. Y. Bowie and Ronald Wilson took charge of the service at China Grove, one of Dr. E. D. Brown’s churches. Last Sunday evening, Harry Price and the quartette conducted the Y. W. C. A. service at Queens, two of the number making short talks. From all accounts, the Queens girls enjoyed his “Y” meeting as much as Davidson enjoyed the corresponding one here. The “Y” cabinet at Queens gave the delegation an informal reception after the service.

“What a whale of a difference just a few cents make!” —all the difference between just an ordinary cigarette and — FATIMA, the most skillful blend in cigarette history.

AN EXHIBITION OF CLOTHES and HABERDASHERY

At School Monday and Tuesday April 14-15 GEO. O’DONALD, Rep.

FINCHLEY HAS ESTABLISHED A FRESH AND TASTEFUL STANDARD OF ATTIRE, WHICH IS RECOGNIZED AND ACCEPTED BY COLLEGE MEN. JACKETS OF NEW SUITS ARE FULL-BODIED AND THE TROUSERS OF CORRECT COLLEGIATE WIDTH. FABRICS ARE IMPRESSIVE IN THEIR DISTINCTION AND QUALITY. READY-TO-PUT-ON AND TAILORED TO MEASURE Finchley Haberdashery, selected abroad, has uncommon character and value.

5 West 46th Street