| | a "morning of the 24th. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 6, 1924 ° : rea 4 Warren Cox, Davidson Graduate
Ministerial Band Hears Writes Letter to Student Body ) Zakow, Chekiang, Sept. 24, 1924. Dear Everybody, i. e., Student Body:

It’s hard to realize that for more than three weeks you have been practicing football! It's harder to realize, though,
that by the time you get this epistle almost half the season will be over! And I won't hear the
result of a single game till the whole string has been played. Yes, China is a long way off! And
by the time you've been on the way a month, and realize that you are just one-third the way around
the world; why! America doesn't look so big after all! It's worth a whole lifetime of experiences in America just
to come to China. One (at least I didn't) doesn't realize how absurdly provincial Americans are till one gets in
a foreign country—and one so entirely different as China is.

The first thing that I said to the Dean (a Chinese who holds a degree from Princeton Seminary, aged 30)
who met me, as he steered our rickshaws through the “streets” of the Chinese part of Shanghai, was, “And to
think that people in America worry about what their next-door neighbor is going to think about them.” I guess it's
best to start at the beginning, so here goes.

On the 12th of August at 11 a.m. we sailed from Seattle on the President Madison, arriving in Yokohama the
morning of the 24th. When one thinks of being “utterly destroyed” he could well think of Yokohama. A city that
was—isn't. Coolies by the thousands; and shacks that sprang up overnight; and rows upon rows of stores (one-story affairs that
resemble one’s smoke-house, only not as high); and odors that make hydrogen sulphide seem like Mavis talcum; and rickshaw men
that want more if you give them too much, or too little, or just the right amount; and women that
sleep on wooden blocks under their necks, not because of their poverty, as the missionary books would have you believe,
but in order to keep their hair (immaculately combed with “snake oil”) from being disarranged; and everybody “clanking” around in
wooden shoes; and all the men with more off than on; and rice starch and “people;” are the impressions of
Yokohama and Japan.

In 12 hours a Standard Oil man and I covered a large portion of Japan. On arrival, we took a
taxi for Kamakura, where is located the largest Buddhist idol in the world—and a famous bathing beach. The latter was
by a long shot the more attractive. One hardly thinks of Japan as bathing, but personally they are the cleanest
people I've seen (not counting Americans). What matter, then, if they do leave odors and garbage in the streets—one gets
used to it, and it saves a lot of trouble. But at Kamakura we saw as many people in bathing
as one would expect at a fashionable American resort. What matter if the laws of Japan do make the men
wear handkerchiefs as bathing suits (a recent enactment necessary for protection against sunburn) and provide bath “sheds” (without doors) where
all sexes can don their “bathing-suits.” They have just as good a bath as we do with all our fancy
suits.

From Kamakura we took a train to Tokyo and saw the American element. My companion knew some friends and we
spent the evening with them till nine—and by that time four were under the table—and the boat sailed the next
morning. Kobe is nothing but a modern seaport town and, knowing Mobile, we took the train for Kyoto and visited
the damascene and lacquer, and pottery and bamboo shops. Saw them all made (not the shops, of course) and it
was some sight. My pocketbook was getting a little too weak to indulge.

After leaving Kobe we sailed the Inland Sea and thence across the Yellow, into Shanghai. To express one’s sentiments and
opinions of China after a residence of only one month would be rather bold—I must hence reserve my judgment of
the great Empire to a later date. Missionaries call Shanghai a wicked city, but just between you and me, it’s
the rottenest place that I have ever seen. It’s hard to explain what one means unless you've seen (and smelled)
the Chinese part of the city, but just the same! that’s that.

Hangchow is about five hours ride from Shanghai on a very good train. At the present moment, however, a bridge
between here and Shanghai has been blown up by the fighting forces and I don’t know whether this letter will
arrive or not. I thought of Hangchow as the jumping-off place; if you did, too, don't display your ignorance any
more. Hangchow would equal Birmingham and Atlanta put together—it has an estimated population of 800,000. It is the capital of
the richest province in China, and at the present time the governor is fighting the southern part of the province.
Just before the opposing troops attacked him, the two generals found that they had been to the same school, so
instead of a battle they sat down and had a feast! General Lu in Hangchow was thence forced to flee
to Shanghai where he is carrying on the major portion of the war, and the two other generals are taking
it easy in the southern part of the province, afraid to take Hangchow, for fear Lu will come back and
get them. China!

Hit ‘em hard in football, and Beat Trinity! All the football here is rugby. Best wishes to all.

W. M. Cox, Jr.

Varied and Interesting Program is Followed by Delicious Refreshments

Mrs. E. J. Erwin very pleasantly entertained the Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon at its regular semi-monthly meeting on
Monday night, October 20th. The meeting was the first of the year following the initiation of new members. At this
time the program dealt with the essay type of literary writing, which the fraternity is studying during this season. Prof.
J. F. Shewmake read an exhaustive study of the essay as a type, in which he gave a survey of
this class of literary endeavor from its inception in the sixteenth century up until the present time. This paper was
more or less a foretaste of the nature of the work Sigma Upsilon will undertake this fall. Continuing the program,
D. B. Wharton read the works of G. K. Chesterton, dealing chieflyWith the essays of this well-known Englishman, A. F.
Simpson followed with an original study in College Men and What a College Means to the various types and classes
of its students—an essay of the analytical variety. At the close of the program, the hostess served delicious refreshments consisting
of sandwiches and chocolate, fruit salad, and home-made fudge.

Y. M. C. A. Bible Classes Discuss Campus Problems
Men Selected to Lead in Bible Class Work of Y. M. C. A.

The Bible classes of the Y. M. C. A. got under way this week. The leaders met with Professor K.
J. Foreman Monday night at 9:30 and discussed the problem for this week. Wednesday night each leader met his group
and took up the discussion in an open meeting. This course will extend over a period of six weeks with
one meeting a week. The meetings are short, lasting only about thirty minutes. The idea is not to study directly
from the Bible, but from Bible references in the solution of campus problems. Bruce Currie’s Problem Approach will be the
method used in study. Everyone is urged to get in touch with a leader and find out the group in
which he belongs and join that group.

The leaders appointed by Bill Ramsey are: L. E. Calhoun, J. R. Gudger, Morgan Spier, W. O. Green, J. H.
Patton, J. D. Laws, P. B. Freeland, L. P. Cox, A. F. Simpson, W. A. Christian, W. W. Purdy, A.
N. Moffett, Willard Keerans, J. Bowie, D. H. Stewart, L. L. Deck, G. D. Rogers, M. W. Trawick, T. B.
Gibbs, R. M. Appleby, P. M. Patterson, A. D. B. Parker, and Hamp Lawson.

Professor K. J. Foreman
Davidson Professor Urges Ministerial Students to Take Lead in Thought

The Ministerial Band had as their speaker at the regular meeting Sunday afternoon Prof. K. J. Foreman. The general topic
of the talk was The Minister's Place as Leader in Thought. He called the attention of the ministerial candidates to
the fact that they should be the leaders in thought on the campus, just as the ministers should be in
the world.

“There are five classes of men in relation to thinking,” he said. “The first is that class of men who
do not think at all. Some people give absolutely no thought to religion. This class is large and is found
all through the world. It is the duty of the minister to wake these men up and set them to
thinking.

“The second class is composed of those who think, but whose thought is second hand. They accept as true almost
anything without giving any thought to the matter at all.

“The next class think for themselves; they work out their own problems and come to their own conclusions. This is
the class to which all should belong. After they have thought out a thing for themselves and then find that
it has been thought out hundreds of years ago by someone else, what a confidence they have in themselves.

“The fourth class is composed of those who, having thought out a thing for themselves, try to force their conclusions
upon others. This is the class of dogmatism; they force others to membership in the second class. They should not
dictate but try to prove their own experience. Truth may be looked at from different points of view; everyone should
look at truth from some viewpoint.”

“The fifth is the one to which every leader of thought should belong. This class is composed of those who
lead others to think for themselves. This is the great problem of the intellectual leaders today.”

Professor Foreman closed by making a few suggestions as to how one might lead others to think.

Literary Societies

The last regular meeting of the Pandemic Society was held Tuesday night in Ku Hall. The usual debate was dispensed
with and the time formerly consumed in debating was devoted to the other part of the program. Eddington gave some
very interesting current events. The subject of O'Connor's oration was A Room Full of Toys. This was the most enjoyed
number, chiefly because of the elements of Hindu philosophy which it contained. Yonan’s declamation, Napoleon, was excellent.

Phi Society

The meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society last Thursday night was opened with devotional exercises conducted by J. R. Gudger.
The query for debate was, Resolved, That the United States Was Justified in Passing the Japanese Exclusion Act. The affirmative
was upheld by G. R. Calhoun and Vitts and the negative by Glenn and Wells. Following the debate, an oration
was given by H. D. Burke, after which Professor Dendy made a short talk which included some valuable suggestions. The
meeting adjourned after the business matters had been dispensed with.

Junior Metrophilian

The Junior Metrophilian Literary Society held its regular weekly meeting on Wednesday, October 29, at 9 o'clock. The devotional exercises
were conducted by Archie Ray, a visitor from the senior society. The query for debate was, Resolved, That the Sterling-Reid
Bill Should Be Enacted in the Present Congress. The affirmative was upheld by McPhaul and Currie, the negative by C.
McRae and Bridges. The negative was given the unanimous decision of the judges. The next thing on the program was
some very interesting current events, interspersed with jokes, by J. M. Andrews. J. G. Wharton gave a declamation which concluded
the program. Just before adjournment, Croxton and Trabue were elected to membership in the society.

Junior Eumanean Society

The most interesting feature of the last meeting of the Freshman Eumanean Literary Society was a debate on the query,
Resolved, That the United States Was Justified in Passing the Japanese Exclusion Act. R. L. Duke, F. C. Debele, and
D. H. Howard developed an interesting argument for the affirmative, although the negative side, supported by Julian Lake, J. M.
Murchison, and Carl Ohsick, was awarded the decision of the judges. Lincoln’s Gettysburg Address was delivered by J. M. McCravey
as a conclusion to the program.

Practically all the colleges of the state are making their Freshmen wear a cap, badge, or some other insignia to
distinguish them from the upper-classmen. There is one thing we take pride in with regard to this movement. That is
that the University of North Carolina has not taken up such a custom. —The Tar Heel.

Thomas A. Edison and Charles P. Steinmetz in the Schenectady laboratories of the General Electric Company, where Dr. Steinmetz did
his great work.

The spirit of Dr. Steinmetz kept his frail body alive. It clothed him with surpassing power; he tamed the lightning
and discharged the first artificial thunderbolt. Emerson tells how the mass of men worry themselves into nameless graves, while now
and then a great, unselfish soul forgets himself into immortality. One of the most inspiring influences in the life of
a modern corporation is the selfless work of the scientists in the laboratories, which it provides for their research. Great
honors came to him, yet he will be remembered not for what he received, but for what he gave. Humanity
will share forever in the profit of his research. This is the reward of the scientist, this is enduring glory.

If you are interested to learn more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete
set of these advertisements.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK
