4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ’15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........... Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN.................. Business Manager

Editorial Staff
W. E. MIDDLETON................. Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK......................... Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON.................... Peanut Parcher Editor
J. A. LAKE.......................... Associate Editor
H. B. PRICE......................... Associate Editor
H. L. SHAY.......................... Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS...................... Alumni Editor

Business Staff
W. A. THOMPSON................. Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN.................... Subscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON................... Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH....................... Advertising Manager

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
R. H. McILWAINE
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
G. McMILLAN
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
J. E. MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY
J. P. O'CONNOR
J. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES
L. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. ODS

SUPPORT

The home team is leading 2-0 and it is the first of the ninth. Only three more outs and the
game will be won. The pitcher takes the mound for the final inning. The first man up knocks an easy
chance to short, but the fielder fumbles the ball. The second batter lifts a fly to the left fielder, who
lets it slip through his fingers. The next man up is thrown out at first; one man is out, but
the pitcher knows it should have been the third out. He gives the next batter a pass, and then he
is nicked for a long double which scores three men. The next two men are put out, and the home
team takes its final chance but fails to deliver. The game is lost 3-2 because of lack of support. The
earned runs stand 2-0 in favor of the home team but that is merely an incidental feature; the game is
lost.

As it is in baseball, so it is in life. Many a progressive movement has been halted because of lack
of support; many an institution has fallen into decay because of the same reason. In every activity, the hardest time
to give true support is when success seems impossible or improbable.

No educational institution can exist without the support of its members in its every activity. A college has many activities.
Scholarship, athletics, debating, publications, class activities, fraternities, social and honorary, social functions and other things claim the support of the
students. Some of these claim the attention of the whole student body, while others claim the attention of groups of
men among the student body.

The question of scholarship is one which concerns the college organization most vitally. Whatever else may seem to hold the
upper hand, the courses of study are the foundations on which the college is built. The courses which a man
takes determine his status in the student body, whether it be Freshman or Senior. Certain standards of scholarship are set,
and it is up to each man in the student body to support those standards or leave college. Efficiency in
scholarship is what counts in the four-year course for graduation.

In the field of athletics, the support of the students is especially needed. Every one of us who is physically
fit should engage in some form of sport, both for our own sake and to support the college and help
sustain her athletic reputation. Each man who makes a Davidson team should be made to fight for his position on
that team throughout the entire season, for only by such support can teams be raised to a higher level. Backing
the team at games is a second form of support which is absolutely necessary for successful athletics. Cheering and yelling
put pep into the game and make the players feel that they have something more to work for. At times
we are also called upon to back the various teams with our money. There are many of us who have
to save every penny to help us in our college course, and who have little to spend on anything. But
when we are called on for a contribution of two bits apiece to help buy sweaters for the baseball men,
there are certainly more than seventy-five men out of the student body of five hundred who can afford to contribute.
When a collection was made at a recent game less than seventy-five men responded and the money contributed would buy
sweaters for only two men. It may seem hard at times to give support, but right then is when it
is most needed. It’s easy to stand behind a winner and yell and cheer, but the true test of college
spirit comes when things look black and everyone is discouraged.

Athletics at Davidson this spring have not received the support which is due them. The attendance at games has not
been up to the one hundred percent standard which is the aim of every college. Constructive criticism and work have
their place in real support, but there is no room for the wielders of the hammer in any institution. Because
everything has not run with absolute precision and efficiency on our campus this year is no reason for anyone to
openly criticize the college. “Be a Booster” is the motto which every Davidson man should take as his own. If
conditions are not what they should be, are not we to blame? By making discreditable reflections on the college, we
are discrediting ourselves for we are an integral part of the college. Boosting and constructive work will remedy the defects
which are being criticized by the few. Support the college and all of its activities.

The bull session, where questions of serious and frivolous import are discussed, is one of the features of college life
which is of most value. The following editorial from the Columbia Spectator expresses the importance of such occasions.

THE MIDNIGHT HOUR

Midnight sessions are among the most enjoyable experiences in college life. No classroom discussion can possibly take the place of
the friendly, rambling, soul-revealing sort of argument that most of us carry in our memories as the choicest part of
our undergraduate days. Count not that time lost, which is stolen from studies and dull, profitable education to drag discussion
through interminable windings while the room is filled with the atmosphere of philosophy and tobacco smoke, and the hands of
the alarm clock, which is to ring at seven, slowly move around to four o'clock in the morning. That is
the time when friendship is tested and tempered, when toleration and fair-mindedness are taxed to the limit, when Utopian schemes
are advanced to reform religion, college politics, or the social system. That is the time when generous or impracticable impulses
have full sway, when man meets man without the deceiving mask of manner and custom, on a basis of complete
acceptance and equality. That is the time when a man forgets that he has always considered it immodest to expose
his own feelings and beliefs, and when he speaks the thoughts that are in his mind with full assurance of
understanding. That is the time when friends are made whom we mean to keep through life. Finally, the conversation lags
and dulls, and the host shows by nods and yawns that he is sleepy, and he opens the door to
say “Good night,” with a lack of politeness that at any other time would arouse resentment. One then takes his
feet off the furniture and dumps the ashes from his pipe on the floor, departing to leave the cool night
wind to blow away the tobacco smoke, and the host to snatch a few hours sleep before daylight.

The midnight hour is the supposed mythical education one gets from heart-to-heart contact with his fellows. It is the course
in human psychology that is not based on scientific laws nor book theorems; it is the period of broadening one’s
mind, intellect, and most of all, sympathy. If there is one thing in a college education that the commuter misses
it is that learning acquired from midnight hours of discussion, confiding, and confession. It is that hour of life with
one’s associates that should make the parent and the students themselves realize what they are losing by living at home
away from the atmosphere and contact of the human feeling of the college.

Exchanges

The Freshman track squad of the University of Chicago is to have a meet a week for the remainder of
the year. Telegraphic meets with Yale, Princeton, and several other institutions, are in prospect.

Both the Washington Varsity and Freshman crews defeated California recently in their annual boat race. This is the third successive
year in which Washington has won. By defeating California, Washington earned the right to enter crews in the national intercollegiate
regatta at Poughkeepsie, N. Y., and the Olympic tryouts at Philadelphia. Washington took first place in the former last year.

Recently the anthropology class of the University of Arizona visited the Casa Grande ruins for the purpose of study.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff...)that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express
themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if
such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by
7:00 p.m. Monday.

A NEW EXAMINATION

Professor Lowes, of Harvard, who allows his students to bring textbooks into the examination room, is championing a new form
of education, and a new standard for the determination of knowledge. He advocates the testing of mentality, not memory. Rapid
strides have been made in the perfection of examination till today the study of “education” and “teaching” has become one
of our most popular college and university courses. The psychological examination is a popular outgrowth of the world war. It
has come to be recognized, not without stern opposition, as the only accurate test of a person's mentality and knowledge.
Professor Lowes, no doubt, is a staunch advocate of the psychological examination, but his plan for student examination goes further
than the tests which were originated during the war. He doesn’t care for cluttered facts and cluttered minds which result
from reference book facts. “Bring the textbooks along,” he says, “Look at them all you like during examination; I am
testing the critical faculty.”

Examinations, and grades, and standards, and all the rest of the claptrap apparatus which obscures the true purpose of education,
may be a necessary evil for youngsters who have to be wheedled and threatened. College men are beyond this, however;
or they are incapacitated for college or university training. The worthwhile examinations do not test what a man knows, alone,
but how he knows it. The things he learns for examinations are the things he quickly forgets. The way he
knows them reveals his mental quality, the strong and the weak side of his brain. It is much more difficult,
of course, to set an examination of this kind. And it is harder still to mark the papers according to
one of those official marking standards which delight the bureaucrats of pedagogy, and are the bane of the sensible teacher.
And it is still harder to write a creditable examination paper of this type, the student is left to his
own judgment, to use his own brain in the interpretation of questions and the formation of adequate answers.

Every examination should be a test of intelligence. Education is not merely acquiring a host of facts, but it is
the cultivation of a faculty for ascertaining and recognizing facts to be learned, then the act of learning, and later
the recall of these facts when they are needed. Already this kind of examination is being given by professors here
and there throughout the country. Education is being made more practical and the college man is being equipped for life.
Who cares for literature, if it has no bearing on life, and who cares for memorizing passages of literature if
it is absorbed as mere words and lines? Why not study literature for its interpretation and its meaning? Who cares
for history, if the study of history is the learning of facts and dates and places? Why not study history
for the light it will bring on the present and the future? Why not interpret from the facts that we
can gather? And if we would make our study practical, why should we not make our examinations just as practical?
Professor Lowes is leading the way to the new examination.

because —X.

purpose of making a first-hand study of the ancient dwellings. The Casa Grande ruins are the remains of an ancient
Indian village, discovered in ruins in 1694, commonly ascribed to the Aztecs, although it is not known positively that the
inhabitants were closely related to any Mexican tribes. There are six sections, or compounds, the largest of which was especially
studied. This is a group of buildings within an enclosing wall and containing the main building, situated higher than the
others and evidently the home of the chief. The trip was made on foot and occupied a whole day.

N. C. State is planning to send a large delegation to Blue Ridge this summer. They have their own little
cottage where the delegates live while there. Although Davidson does not own a cottage, the delegates usually arrange to be
together in one of the cottages furnished by the Association.

To end up spring football training at Columbia University three practice games were played between teams made up of candidates
for practice. Coach Haughton in these games experimented with several ideas concerning changes to be made for improving the game,
namely, a nine-man team in which one man plays tackle and guard positions alone; and giving each team a certain
number of plays instead of a definite amount of time in which to play.

BEING A PLAY IN ONE ACT

PLACE—A secluded spot in the Blue Ridge Mountains.

CAST OF CHARACTERS
Hank Sedberry—His popularity due to his mountain dew.
Evvie—His wild-flower-like daughter.
Elvira Sedberry—“What is home without mother?”
Salina—The youngest bud on the Sedberry family tree.
Percy Downs—The adventurer from the city.
Accessories—The rest of the family, houn’ dawg, etc.

SCENE I—Interior of the Sedberry cabin, whose squalidness bespeaks of neglect. The evening sun casts glamours of purple and gold
into the rooms through the open door, which is open to catch the breezes of the June weather. Little Saliva
Sedberry is seen industriously teething on a stranded footgear of the family Ford. Evvie enters crying, followed by her father.

HANK—I tell ye that it haint doin’ ye a bit o’ good to cry yer eyes out so, ‘cause Ma
and Me ain't goin’ ter let ye run with that ‘air city slicker whut's been paintin’ and fiddlin’ round these
parts fer some time. Shet up that weepin’ now, I tell ye!

EVVIE (throwing herself across a chair in a most disconsolate mood)—Why, Pap, he's a nice feller, he is, and aint
never got drunk like you and the boys do. Why, he aint never killed a revenooer in his life—

HANK—Yep, an’ I am athinkin’ that he's one of them ‘air revenooer hisself, with his pretty, slick ways and sneakin’
grin. Goes round an’ paints picters o’ nothin’ 'ceptin’ rocks and logs, and sich. (He catches sight of the baby,
who has succeeded in extracting a plug from the tire). Hup thar, Salivy, with that tire! Wall, I'll be durned
if she haint bit a plug outen hit. Fust thing yer know th’ little varmint’ll wear out ull the tires
offen th’ ottymobile an’ she'll want ter chaw on th’ cobbyrater or somethin’. Wall, I mus’ say that she takes
atter her pap, and her name fits her ‘cause she’s th’ spit image o’ myself. (He smiles indulgently on Saliva).

ELVIRA SEDBERRY (entering the room with the firewood)—Wall, Pap, why is our gal acryin’ so? Fust thing yer know, th’
house won't hold her. ’Bout that Downs feller? I don’t see why she don't take up with Yap Perkins, over
across th’ ridge, who's got the best still in these parts—Look! Who's that ‘air comin’ up th’ path. (She dexterously
expectorates in the fireplace, grabs up Saliva and peers through the door). Why, hits Mr. Downs, as what wants our
Evvie!

PERCY DOWNS (dressed in a khaki hunting uniform and with an artist's kit on his shoulder)—Aha, my beauty, there you
are. And now Mr. Sedberry, I should like to ask your daughter's hand and heart in solemn betrothal.

HANK—If that means yer want our Evvie, yer on th’ wrong track, Mr. City Man. Yer haint done right by
our Evvie, tellin’ her them wild tales ’bout th’ city, an’ yer wuss nor pizen in my sight. An’ remember,
Mr. City Man, that they’s men in these mountains as whut kin shoot an’ as whut kin shoot straight. You'd
make good meat fer some o’ our ba’r killers.

PERCY (catching sight of a demijohn sitting on the family Bible near the table)—Might I have a slight quaff of
the nectar of the gods to quench my thirst, Mr. Sedberry? (Our hero quaffs deep of the liquid contents of
the demijohn which Hank gives him, and wipes his mouth with his sleeve). I've never tasted better liquor since the
bootleggers’ convention in New York. Might I ask who concocts such refreshing beverage? It’s fit for a king himself.

EVVIE (shyly looking at her paternal father from half-closed eyes)—Pap’s th’ one who done hit. They haint a better “shiner”
in seven states than Pap. (The elder Sedberry blushes like a school girl, and has a sudden fit of giggles).

HANK (clearing up like clouds after a storm)—Wall, Mr. Whuts-yer-name, seein’ as how yer a right knowin’ feller, and are
quite respectable to yer elders, I'll say th’ word that makes her your'n. (He leads Evvie to Percy and joins
their hands). Peace and happiness be unto you, chillen, and may yo’ conscience be yo’ guide. (Evvie and Percy embrace
forcibly).

SCENE II—On the banks of a babbling mountain brooklet which refreshes them with its spray. Tinkling cow bells are heard
mixed with the clamour of a wheezy Ford as it makes a distant grade in low.

PERCY—And then we’ll build our little love nest far away from everyone, just you and I, my little turtle dove.

EVVIE—Just you an’ me, Percy? Aint that nice? An’ can Pap and Mammy, an’ Johnny, and Abe, and Sally, and
Salivy stay with us too?

PERCY—Anything for you, my dear, even a mother-in-law and her kindred if so. (They clasp each other's hands and gaze
into the blue sky above. After a moment, their eyes meet and they embrace. Not a sound is heard except
the grating of a snuffbox as Evvie extracts a generous pinch and mouths it).
