6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 8, 1924

Red and Black Sports

New C.E.T.C. Officers Are Installed By Little

Wildkittens End Season By Defeating Trinity

On Road Trip, Yearlings Lose Three and Win One

The Wildkitten tossers split the last two games of the season, winning from Trinity 6-2 on April 29th and losing,
8-3 to N. C. State the 28th. Against Trinity’s yearlings, the Freshmen hit their stride and wiped out the stain
of a lengthy losing streak. This win made the tally one out of three of the games played on the
road trip.

N. C. State Game

In a game marked by heavy hitting and loose fielding, the N. C. State Fresh defeated Davidson’s first-year nine, score
8-3. The hard-baked field and numerous pebbles stretched a number of bingles for extra bases. Julian of State was touched
for eight hits, one of them a home run. He worked effectively in the pinches and held the Kittens to
three runs. In the meantime, his teammates pounded Templeton for 13 hits. Neece led the attack with three hits in
four trips up, two of the times sending the pill out for a homer. The Davidson Fresh played fair ball
in the field in spite of the bad surface. Inability to hit as hard and as often as the State
Fresh accounted for their defeat. Joe McConnell featured in the ninth frame by meeting one of Julian’s benders for four
bases. The summary:

R H E
Davidson Fresh 101 000 001—3 8 11
N. C. State Fresh 310 021 10x—8 13 1

Trinity Game

At Trinity on the 29th, the Freshmen backed Hampton with steady fielding and with his pitching air-tight ball in the
pinches carried the ball game away with 6-2. The Kittens grouped their hits and pushed runs over at will. Costly
errors, five of them, on the part of the Methodists helped the Red and Black score to mount. Hampton's effective
twirling featured the Davidson defense while Kelly Johnson led their attack. Johnson got three hits in five trips to the
plate. For Trinity, Tuttle scored the Red Devil's two tallies with two clean hits, one a two-bagger which he laid
up against the fence. Waggoner also did good work with the willow but his three hits out of four times
up failed to add to the Methodist’s side of the score. The summary:

R H E
Trinity Fresh 010 100 000—2 5 4
Davidson Fresh 102 000 012—6 10 4

SOPHS VANQUISHED IN INTER-CLASS SERIES MONDAY

The Fresh-Soph game last Monday afternoon resulted in the defeat of the second-year men. This was the first of the
annual inter-class series. Final score stood 5 to 2. The scoring began when Kiser singled, Davis sacrificed, and Kiser reached
second. Then Woodham sent a sizzler through short and brought in Kiser for the first run of the afternoon. During
the sixth inning, the Fresh ran a merry-go-round, with the result that the score stood 5 to 0 when the
Sophs buckled down and sent them to the field again. For a time, neither side was able to do anything
in the way of reaching the home plate. The few hits that were made were not gotten at opportune moments.
In the last of the ninth, the Sophs rallied and scored their two runs. The teams were more evenly matched
than the score indicates. Only two errors were charged to the Sophs and one to the Fresh. The Fresh got
nine hits and the Sophs got four. Batteries were: Freshmen, Kiser and Templeton; Sophomores, Oden and Hovis.

THETA UPSILON OMEGA (Continued from page 1)

dle States, lawyers, writers, architects, physicians, professors, and almost every other representative professional line. At the installation services, there were
present a group of the alumni of the local chapter, J. P. Booth, A. S. Axuetson, R. G. White, and
others to come for initiation at later dates. The official contracted name of this new organization is Theta U.

Niches in the Wildcat

Former Field Secretary Carries Out Novel Program

In Sunday more than a boy in size, he made a record that can never be forgotten. In his Freshman
year, he fought for a place on the football team and played in several games. After that, he played regularly
at quarterback and was in almost every game. He was very light, weighing only about 130, but in almost every
account of the games, there would be such comments as these: “Keesler was Davidson’s most consistent ground gainer;” “The feature
of the game was Keesler's steady, wise generalship and consistent gains.” He was quarterback and played in every game of
the season of 1916 when only three games were lost. He starred especially in the A. & M. game of
that fall when he gained more than 200 yards from scrimmage and in turning punts. He was equally good in
line plunging, end running, throwing passes, or punting. Sam also played baseball every season, but he did not make his
letter until his Senior year. He was catcher that year and played just as well behind the bat as he
had done in calling signals for the football eleven. Above everything else, he was speedy and nervy. In one game,
he had a finger broken but insisted on catching the rest of the game as soon as by the president,
Mr. Lawrence Little, who is now president of the Christian Endeavor Union for this district, conducted a short devotional service.
He then asked both the retiring officers, President W. W. Purdy, Vice-President A. H. Hollingsworth, Secretary A. Y. Bowie, Treasurer
B. U. Ratchford, and the incoming officers, President W. E. Milton, Vice-President A. H. Hollingsworth, Secretary D. M. Calhoun, Treasurer
W. T. Covington, to stand before the class, and in a brief talk, he expressed the class’s appreciation of the
efficient service rendered by the old officers and charged the new ones to do even greater the class he asked
for their co-operation in the administration for next year, which was immediately pledged by all present. Mr. Little carried out
the remainder of the program in the form of a Christian Endeavor baseball game. The pitcher re- about Christian Endeavor.
It was unique and interesting. The game

Literary Societies

Along with many others, Sam left college early in the spring of his Senior year and went to the officers
training camp when war was declared. He received his commission at the end of the camp, and in 1918 went
to France as a pilot in the aviation corps. He was as consistent and as fearless in his attacks on
the Germans as he had been on his enemies on the gridiron. In October 1918, his plane was shot down
behind the German lines and he received serious wounds from which he died a few days later. He was posthumously
awarded the Distinguished Service Cross. Sam Keesler was an athlete that any college could well be proud of and All
McBryde who was absent with the track man seconded the motion.

Fresh Athletes Receive Recognition of Ability

Awarded Monogram in Three Sports — First Time in History

ian Society, last Tuesday night was taken over entirely by the election of officers for the first term of the
coming year. D. B. Wharton was chosen to lead the society during that period. In the other elections, R. B.
Parker was made vice-president; D. H. Stewart, secretary; and E. T. Pullen, treasurer. W. M. Gracey

Pandemic Literary Society

The query for debates was, Resolved: That the annexation of Cuba to the United States would be to the best
interest of Cuba. Eddington, Regen, and Yeager successfully argued the affirmative and received the unanimous decision of the judges against
the negative supported by McFall, McIlwaine, and Thompson. The discussion was a lively one and showed excellent preparation on the
part of both teams. Okey Allison was on the program for current events and Hugh Currie for oration. Currie gave
an interesting talk on Rome and the Vatican.and its Popes in football: C. G. Allen, E. H. Bohannon, W. A.
Christian, L. C. R. Deck, H. G. Goodykoontz, W. O. Green, A. J. Hewlett, F. E. Hudgins, W. K. Johnston,
W. H. Leggette, R. L. Lincoln, J. H. McConnell, R. L. Mitchell, H. O. Sapp, J. F. Pinkney, Z. Varnedoe.
In basketball: T. F. Anderson, R. J. Faucette, A. J. Hewlett, F. E. Hudgins, H. O. Sapp, J. A. Simpson,
Jr. In baseball, the Athletic Council has not as yet awarded the monograms but Coach Rawson has recommended the following
tossers: C. G. Allen, T. Davis, R. R. Templeton, R. R. Glenn, P. A. Hampton, W. K. Johnston, W. B.
Kiser, J. H. McConnell, H. O. Sapp, W. R. Sparrow, K. V. Woodham.

Phi Society

At the meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society last Thursday evening, May the first, the election of officers for the
fall term was held in place of the regular meeting. The officers elected were: J. E. Holshauser, president; B. U.
Ratchford, vice-president; A. B. Williford, secretary; J. C. Barrington, treasurer; J. R. Gudger, first critic, and H. Y. Alexander, second
critic. After the election of officers several other matters of business were brought before the society and attended to. The
regular bill for discussion was postponed until the next meeting, at which time there will be two bills discussed. First:
Resolved: That the United States should annex Cuba as a territory. Second: Resolved: That the Gentleman's agreement with Japan should
be made a law.

OPERATIC AIRS HEARD
(Continued from page 1)

Sizoo, and Messrs. Gibson, Neal and Stokes. The best encores given were “Swing Low, Sweet Chariot,” slightly rearranged, and “Love’s
Old Sweet Song.” The audience was not disappointed in its expectation to witness a worthy concert on this night, because
it is certain that this was the crowning number of the series of concerts given during the year both by
other organizations as well as the Carolinas Concert Club. The appearance of the club upon the hill was managed by
Ted Jones, who, as president of the Glee Club, became associated with Mrs. Baker while she was director of the
Davidson Glee Club, during this year.

DAVIDSON PARTIES PLAN
(Continued from page 1)

in Greensboro. They will tour France, Switzerland and other European countries. A three weeks’ stay in England is planned. The
trip across the channel is to be made by aeroplane or steamer, each member of the party choosing the way
he or she most desires. On the 23rd of August they will sail from Southampton on the United States liner
Republic, arriving at New York about the 28th of August.

Hall of Fame Meeting

The installation of officers for the coming year composed the greater part of the program of the Christian Endeavor Training
Class last Sunday. After the usual opening exercises conducted by Samuel R. Keesler, the meeting proceeded with the installation of
the new officers. Sam Keesler came to Davidson from Greenwood, Miss. and though never a football or baseball player, he
was known for his dedication to other activities. Turning to the other members of the Metrophilian Society, instead of throwing
balls, he threw questions, engaging everyone in thoughtful discussion.

Metrophilian Society
(Continued from page 2)

TIMELY HITS OF BLUE

Summary—Struck out: by Laird 20, by Hannah 4; base on balls: off Laird 2, off Hannah 2; two-base hits: Moore,
R., Boushee, Marrow and Simpson; three-base hits: Vance, Boushee.

Furman

The Furman nine copped a 12-inning contest from the Wildcats last Tuesday, in Chester, S. C. The first four innings
were all for the South Carolina team. Then the Wildcats drew their blood and the game was all for Davidson
until the ninth, when Furman tied the score and then after two more scoreless innings connected with Boushee for three
runs in the twelfth.

McPherson started the game in the box for Davidson and held the Purple Hurricane to one run each in the
first and third frames. In the fourth they drove in two more. Boushee then entered the box and held the
Furman boys scoreless for four innings. The Wildcats took advantage of this time to gain a one-point lead over Furman,
which they held until the ninth, when a Furman man scored on a wild peg home from short and prolonged
the game for three more innings. Davidson gave herself two chances to score in the tenth and eleventh, but the
hits necessary to drive the men in were not forthcoming. Furman then took things into her hands and did what
the Wildcats were unable to do, when the Furman batters drove three men across the plate in the twelfth, making
the game theirs 8 to 5.

OLD CUSTOM PERPETUATED IN VISITS TO OUTPOSTS

Sunday School work has long been an important part of the activities of Davidson men who are preparing for the
ministry. Work was begun at Shearer Chapel in the early nineties, by Dr. Hammond, who is the incoming professor of
Bible at Flora McDonald. The Mill Chapel has been faithfully supported by students. Only during the last year or so
the county convict camp has been established near school. Now, men go from Davidson each Sunday and work among the
prisoners. There are several budding stations at each of which some student is trying to form the nucleus of a
new church. The most notable of these is that at Oak Grove. S. E. Hager is in charge.

LUXENBERG CLOTHES
Talk No. 3

CONFIDENCE

Certain things we tell every customer BEFORE he makes his first purchase.

1. That the woolens we use are the sort that you will find in suits priced $20 higher elsewhere.
2. That we guarantee “well made” clothes (not custom made).
3. That without complete satisfaction no sale is concluded.
4. We will refund the purchase price if you are not entirely satisfied.

From the many customers we have made, it would seem that the LUXENBERG label plus money in his pocket is
a sufficient inducement for any man to buy clothes in the LUXENBERG way.

(No. 3 of a series of talks with tips for men who dress well.)

To take care of our growing trade, we have been compelled to open branches at 863 Broad Street, Newark, N.
J. Home store, as always, 841 Broadway, New York City.

NAT LUXENBERG & BROS.

CENTRAL
Dyeing
Largest
8 E. Trade St.
and
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection
Oldest
HAT SHOP
Pressing
Best
CHARLOTTE

$250 in Prizes

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following
prizes: 1st prize, $100; 2nd prize, $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes,
$5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons are deemed worthy of prizes, the
full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be
announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper only, putting
name, address, college and class at top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co.,
Glastonbury, Conn.

“It’s on even when it’s off”

(Does this slogan about the Hinge-Cap deserve a prize? If not, what better one can you suggest? Read our offer)

WILLIAMS is a wonderfully popular shaving cream. Here’s why:— It’s heavier, faster-working lather, the way it lubricates the path of
the razor and eliminates painful friction, the soothing ingredient which keeps the skin so smooth and cool even in daily
shaving—these are qualities men like! They also like its purity—no artificial coloring. With the new Hinge-Cap, Williams is winning more
friends than ever before. See if you ever used a shaving cream as good.
