6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 21, 1924

DR. T. W. LINGLE TO MAKE EXTENDED SUMMER TOUR

Dr. Thomas W. Lingle, professor of French at Davidson College, is planning a tour of France and Switzerland during the
coming summer. This tour is personally conducted by Dr. Lingle, who has conducted five tours previous to the one now
proposed. He is thoroughly familiar with French customs and manners, as well as with the customs of other European nations.
Such experience as Dr. Lingle has had will enable him to select the points of most interest and value to
the students, and to point out the historic spots with accuracy.

As planned now, the party will leave New York on June 17th on the French steamer, “Roussillon,” landing at Bordeaux
and Vigo. From this point, the party takes a trip to the Basque coast and country, including San Sebastian in
Spain. Returning to France, they visit Lourdes, Pau, Biarritz, and tramp the high Pyrenees. Next, they traverse southern France on
the Rhone Valley, stopping at Toulouse and Nimes. On this trip, they also visit Cannes, Monte Carlo, and the French
Riviera to Nice. The party then goes to Italy, where they visit San Remo and Genoa. Returning to France, they
drive over the famous Route des Alpes, also visiting Chamonix and Mer de Glace. They next go to Switzerland, visiting
Geneva, Lucerne, Basel, Montreux, and Interlaken.

Leaving Switzerland, they re-enter France at Mulhouse and Belfort, Alsace to Strasbourg, Nancy, St. Mihiel, Verdun, and other famous battlefields.
They visit Rheims, then to Paris for ten days, and on to Lille, Calais, and Dunkirk. They visit Bruges and
Ostend in Belgium. Taking a steamer at Ostend, they cross the English Channel to London, and visit Cambridge. Recrossing the
English Channel from Southampton, they sail from Le Havre on August 19th on the French steamer “La Savoie,” arriving at
New York on August 28th.

The cost of the trip is $860, including transportation on land and sea; meals while on the trip; admission to
museums, fees to guides, etc. Such a trip at such a moderate price, conducted by one who is so familiar
with the country and at the same time sympathetic, is indeed a pleasure for anyone who wishes to see places
of interest.

WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT YOUR POLICY?

Question: What procedure is followed when the assured and the company fail to agree on the amount of the loss?
Answer: Submitted to appraisers.

W. E. PRICE
30 W. 5th St.
Charlotte, N.C.

We Invite Your Business
LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Charlotte “Y” Game

Charlotte “Y” defeated the Wildcats the second time this season when she turned back the Davidson quintet on the local
gym last Monday night by the score of 37-23. The game was listless and uninteresting, void of pep, with inaccurate
shooting, and poor pass work. Both teams failed in their repeated attempts to cage points, Charlotte making several long counters,
however.

The only feature of the game was the shooting of Yates, pivot man for the Charlotte team. He chalked up
18 of the Queen City’s counters, almost half the entire score. Staley, who has been playing such a brilliant game
for the Wildcats so far this season, failed to make a single point, while the shooting of the team in
general was poor. Laird and Sapp vied for honors on field goals, both making four apiece, but “Red” made two
points by foul goals. Sapp only played part of the game.

The scoring at the beginning was all on Charlotte’s side, they making five points before Laird was able to make
one point by a foul throw. The Wildcats came up until the score stood 8 and 8, but they failed
to take the lead and at no time during the contest did they have it. The half ended 14 to
12 in favor of Charlotte, Laird having scored eight of Davidson’s markers in this half.

Davidson failed to stage her usual comeback in the second half, and Charlotte varied between an eight or ten-point lead
until the last few minutes of play, when they made a couple of loops for a final difference of 14
points, with the score standing 37-23.

Playing against the Wildcats were two former Davidson men. John Schenck, graduate of the class of ’21, was pitted against
Laird, while Alex McMillan, ex-’26, was playing a forward position, with Boggs as an opponent. Together they made five points
for Charlotte. Immediately after the game, the Wildcats left for their only road trip, where they were to meet Wake
Forest, Guilford, and State.

Wake Forest Game

The third collegiate game lost by the Wildcats this season went to Wake Forest last Thursday night, the score being
32-22. The game was one in which Referee Bethel called fouls frequently, honors for fouling being about evenly divided. Davidson
had 12 called on her quint, and 11 were called on the Baptists. As a culmination of these frequent fouls,
each team had a man put out, Captain Davis being sent to the sidelines, as well as Modlin, for Wake
Forest.

Davidson did not have the fighting spirit she showed the night before when she had defeated South Carolina in one
of the most brilliantly played games this season. Staley’s eye was not focused on the basket, and he was not
able to make a field goal. The first half of the game ended with a 10-point lead for Wake Forest,
23-13, and the game ended with the same margin of points in the Baptists’ favor. The Wildcats did not show
any tendency to overcome the lead, and Wake Forest maintained it throughout. Laird and Greason shared honors evenly, both making
nine points.Wake Forest team all shot the sphere, their scoring being almost evenly divided among the entire team.

Davidson (22) Position W. Forest (32)
Staley (2) Left guard Madlin (7)
Substitutions—Sapp (8) for McConnell; McConnell for Sapp; Sapp for Davis; Leeper (2) for McMillan; McMillan for Schenck.
Fouls: Staley 0 out of 1; Laird 2 out of 3; McConnell 1 out of 2; Sapp 0 out of
2; Nieman 2 out of 3; McMillan 1 out of 3; Smith 0 out of 1; Schenck 0 out of
1.
Referee: Hengeveld.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVOR HOLDS ENJOYABLE SOCIAL THURSDAY

The Senior Christian Endeavor held a social last Thursday night. There were about 20 of the members present. Miss Ellen
Black, chairman of the social committee, had charge of the social. The entertainment of the evening was begun with a
game which enabled each person present to meet any member whom they had not met before, and following this were
various other forms of entertainment. In the midst of much merriment, refreshments were served which consisted of fruits and candies.
These were arranged very attractively, and appealed both to the eye and taste. Following this there was a short devotional
exercise, and the society disbanded until Sunday night, with a short prayer. Sunday night an interesting program was held.

Town News

Mr. W. C. McLaughlin, of Hangchow, China, while in town for a couple of days last week, stayed with Dr.
and Mrs. Harding.

The Thelemite Book Club will meet next Friday with Miss Mary Young. Dr. Hood will address them on a subject
connected with Psychology.

Mrs. Weldon Schenck and son, Fairchild, have taken apartments at Mrs. Paisley’s for the spring.

Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum was hostess to the Young Matron’s Club on Friday of last week. Mrs. Malcolm Rumple, recently returned
from Buenos Aires, was a guest of the club.

Mrs. George Woolsey, of New York City, has returned home after a visit with relatives in Davidson.

Mrs. Henry Louis Smith, of Lexington, Va., and Mrs. Frank Brown, of Salisbury, were visiting in town for a few
days last week.

Mrs. J. Moore McConnell is planning a colonial tea for the Davidson Civic League, to be held on the evening
of February 26th, in the College gymnasium, as a Washington’s birthday function. It is expected to be a splendid as
well as a patriotic affair. The proceeds will go to the fund for the building of the League’s new clubhouse.

Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Dice will arrive in Davidson this week to visit their cousin, Mrs. White.

Mrs. Shewmake, of Williamsburg, Va., is now the guest of her son, Dr. E. F. Shewmake.

Mr. Bob King, who is conducting a series of meetings on the campus, is the guest of Dr. and Mrs.
H. B. Arbuckle.

The Book Lovers’ Club was entertained Friday afternoon by Mrs. Hamilton, Miss Shaw, and Mrs. Withers. The topic of special
interest on this occasion was the study of Gothic Architecture.

The last meeting of the Mission Study Classes was held in the Davidson Presbyterian Church last Wednesday evening. At the
conclusion of the regular class work, an enjoyable social was held and light refreshments served. Members of Mrs. Archibald Currie’s
class of about 40 young people were guests at a very delightful supper at 6:00 o'clock of the same evening.

Dr. Egbert Smith is now giving the Smyth lecture course at the Columbia Theological Seminary. The subject of this year’s
Smyth lectures is that of foreign missions.

SHOWING AT DAVIDSON MONDAY, MARCH 17th

CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN

The DINNER SUIT

DEBONAIR, comfortable, tailored with the care that ensures both smartness and durability, made from materials approved by exclusive tailors, and
sold at a price that extends to the price.

DINNER SUIT (Shawl collar or notch) $39.50

NAT LUXENBERG & Bros.
New address N. W. Cor. 13th St. New York City
Manufs 841 Broadway Stuyvesant 9898
Branches: 177 Broadway, New York City. 231 Water St., Exeter, N. H. 863 Broad St., Newark, N. J.
Our style-memo book will be sent free on request.

CENTRAL PRESSING CLUB
MILLER’S HAT SHOP
Dyeing and Dry Cleaning
Largest and Oldest
8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE
Shoe Shine In Connection
Pressing Best

“A cap as good as the cream”

High praise for Williams Shaving Cream is contained in this suggested slogan for the Hinge-Cap. Yet truly, the combination of
faster beard-softening, elimination of razor friction through lubrication of the skin, and the extraordinary care of the skin which Williams
gives, has never been equaled by any other shaving cream. And Williams is a pure product, absolutely without coloring matter!
Begin on a tube—compare it in every way.

$250 in Prizes

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following
prizes: 1st prize $100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes,
$5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of
prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners
will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of paper
only, putting name, address, college, and class at the top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J.
B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

WHITE BUS LINE

Leaves Charlotte
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
8:25 11:25 1:55 6:25
Davidson 8:30 11:30 2:00 6:30
Mooresville 8:45 11:45 2:15 6:45
Statesville 9:10 12:10 2:40 7:10

Leaves Statesville
A. M. A. M. P. M. P. M.
7:00 10:00 1:00 4:30
Mooresville 7:25 10:25 1:25 4:55
Davidson 7:40 10:40 1:40 5:10
Cornelius 7:45 10:45 1:45 5:15
Huntersville 7:55 10:55 1:55 5:25
Charlotte 8:30 11:30 2:30 6:00

For Further Information See Driver

Miss Margaret Adams entertained the Sutzer club last Tuesday evening. Pink and white ice cream was served as refreshments. Mrs.
H. B. Elliott was a guest of the afternoon.

Miss Mary Owen Graham has been visiting Dr. and Mrs. Archibald Currie.
