THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 16, 1924

Bramble Bushes Notice!

A reward of a red-flannel suit of underwear and a three-quart ice-cream freezer, model 1869, will be awarded to the
person giving information that will bring about the capture, dead or unconscious, of a desperado whose name is Jones, alias
Parson Jones, alias Hobo Jones. This man escaped from Shearer Hall last Monday morning at 8:55 a.m. When last seen
he was wearing a dark suit with accessories to match. Beware of this man. He is armed with a water-pistol
and a penknife. If you try to capture him be sure you get the jump on him, and that you
have no responsibility taken by the ones offering this reward as this man is noted for being able to get
the jump on any man and tapping him on the wrist-watch, seriously injuring said article. Jones, alias Casey, can sign
your fire-insurance policy.

As soon as the arrest is effected the reward will be sold to the highest bidder on the day following.
In case this man is seen, wire headquarters at once. This man is charged with hossing, bulling, and heaving Irish
confetti. All communications must be sent to Cop R.L. Johnston, care of the Associated Vest. This is a fair description
of the brute: Height, 6 feet 9 inches; breadth, 2 feet 7 inches; width, 18 inches; left leg wooden; both
eyes glass; one arm cork; wears a wig; solid brick from the ears up; chews Spark Plug Twist; smokes Home
Run cigarettes; has a false set of teeth. This man wears Headlight overalls and carries a water-pistol and a penknife.
The persons offering this reward will not be responsible for any injury received by anyone trying to effect a capture
unless he is wearing a waterproof sticker, purchased from Spee McConnell.

Picture Taking

Among the activities that have filled the preceding weeks of the new school year has been the ever-favorite sport of
“having the picture made.” Much time, worry, and care have been taken to make this year’s pictures “as good looking
as possible.” The Seniors, Juniors, and fraternity men have bravely faced the ordeal thus far and from all reports, there
are only a few that failed to show up. The only group picture taken so far has been the football
team. However, after repairing damages to his camera, the photographer promised to return soon for the society pictures as well
as the remaining class and other group pictures.

A problem that has been facing the Seniors and Juniors for the past weeks has been deciding which of the
proofs look the homeliest. After much painstaking deliberation and consideration, the verdict has usually been that one looks about as
bad as the other and the great decision has generally been decided by the toss of a coin. However, laying
jokes aside, from all reports, the pictures promise to afford plenty in the way of amusement to be looked forward
to in this year’s publication of the annual.

Poems That Live

“Little domes of ivory,
Freckling in the sun
One on R. McConnell,
One on Williamson.”

(The above gem of thought, now memorized by every student of literature as soon as he has attained a degree
of intelligent reasoning power that will enable him to realize the sublime beauty of the meter and theme, comprises the
eighty-ninth stanza of “The Bald Headed Men’s Lament,” by Dr. Anonymous. Dr. Anonymous’ best-known work, appeared first in pamphlet form
during the latter part of the year 1924, and can now be found in its entirety in “Censored Readings in
Davidson Literature.” The author gives us the following notes in explanation of the poem: “Upon arising one morning and feeling
that a strange phenomenon must be manifesting itself, I looked through the recently washed pane of the dormitory window and
beheld the sun rising above the distant water tank. A short piece up the road were two odd-looking objects glittering
resplendent in the soft rays of the morning sun. How inspiring the sight was to my poetic soul! I rushed
down to study the objects of my admiration at closer range. An inspection of the curious reflectors proved that they
were the recently polished hat rests of the lads mentioned in the poem. The soaring price of Stacomb prohibited its
use by them any longer and they found it necessary to resort to Johnson’s Prepared Wax. Purchasers of this wax
are warned in the instructions upon the can that satisfactory results can be obtained only when used sparingly.”)

THREE HONORARY FRATS

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle Makes Fine Talk to Volunteers

Sigma Pi Sigma, honorary physics fraternity; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, honorary chemical fraternity; and Alpha Phi Epsilon, honorary speaking fraternity, have
elected new members to their various groups lately. The new men have shown a marked proficiency in their various lines
of endeavor, and these elections are recognitions of their attainments. The following are the names of the fraternities and the
new men:

Sigma Pi Sigma
C. S. Furr
M. M. Hunter
O. L. Brenner
R. W. Graves
J. D. Young
F. C. Kugler
Gaines Renin
N. W. Ginnie
W. N. Walden
D. Clive
W. L. Stadkin

Gamma Sigma Epsilon
W. M. Gycey
W. S. Hines
Pete Parker
B. U. Ratchford

Alpha Phi Epsilon
Dr. H. B. Arbuckle was the speaker. His message was to have faith in God and to lean upon Him
in times of doubt, as an example of which, he told the story of Gideon. God called Gideon, who because
he was in doubt, put God to a test to find out if it were really God who called him.
His test was that of putting out a skein with wool, and if it were full of dew in the
morning, while everything near it was dry, then the call was from God. But after it had happened, he reasoned
that nothing would take dew like wool. Therefore he reversed the test. It was hard for Gideon to believe that
God called him, for he was the humblest man of the humblest family in Israel, but his faith was strong,
and he blew the trumpet, to which 32 thousand men responded. Just as his spirits were high at the response,
God told him that he had too many men to let those go home who feared the Midianites. He was
left with only 10 thousand men. The test of drinking at the stream eliminated all of his men except three
hundred, but his faith continued to the end. This faith led him to drive the Midianites from their camp, and
to pursue them until his three hundred men were faint.

Davidson to Meet Emory On Home Floor This Year

Good Debates Are Being Planned by Forensic Council—Prelims on October 29th

The query for the first intercollegiate debate of the year is: Resolved, That the Reid-Sterling Educational Bill Should be enacted
into Law by the Present Congress. Davidson meets the University team in their home territory at Atlanta this year. This
college has the affirmative side of the question and can depend on the team to fight hard to duplicate last
year’s victory of a four to one decision. The preliminaries for this debate will be held Wednesday, October 29th, and
the final fray will be staged December 8th.

Plans for a triangular debate in the spring are being worked on by the Forensic Council. The council is also
planning some Freshman debates. With three men of last year’s team back, and some good material from last year’s Freshman
team, prospects for another successful year are bright. A summary of the debates for the year 1923-24 shows that Davidson
defeated Washington & Lee, and Emory, but lost to Trinity. In the Freshman triangular debate of last year, Davidson defeated
Carolina by a decision of three to nothing, and lost to Wake Forest by a vote of one to two.

R.O.T.C. News

The R.O.T.C. held the first parade of the year last Wednesday afternoon. Officers on duty at Davidson think that the
Freshmen have developed remarkably in their one month’s training. It is planned to have a parade every Wednesday on the
campus, which members of the student body and public in general are cordially invited to attend.

Last week the R.O.T.C. organized a special training platoon. To this have been assigned men who have not been able
to develop sufficiently in their drill, or who particularly need physical development. The personnel of this platoon will be changed
from time to time and within a month it is expected to show marked improvement.Planned to have only men in
the platoon for the first regular platoon that needs physical development. Their training will slightly differ. After learning to drill
correctly, more attention will be given to the physical development of the men in the platoon. The R.O.T.C. department is
taking an especial interest in this platoon and hopes to obtain results that will justify the organization of this platoon
each year. Several members of the staff of instructors have been selected to supervise the training of this platoon. The
upper-classmen in charge are: First Lieutenant, L. B. Huie; Sergeant, G. W. Smith; Corporals, Brands, Sears, Sims, Womach, Lingle, Keerns.
Lieutenant Huie had the best-drilled platoon in last year’s R.O.T.C. and hopes to have the best work as possible this
year with the men of the special training platoon.

For the first time in several years, Davidson College has the prospects of a good band. Many freshmen came to
the aid of Captain Ernest when he called for volunteers. Among the number that came, much good material has been
found. Captain Ernest and Lieutenant Crayton are faithfully developing the new material. Captain Weems announces that he hopes to borrow
Fort Bragg’s band leader for about a month to help us in the training of our band. He will devote
all of his time to the band and its work. He comes to us highly recommended as one of the
best band leaders in the service. With his aid and the cooperation of the officers in charge, we hope to
have the best band that Davidson has ever had.

The C.E. Training Class is active with deputations. Several members of the class have been to Mooresville and other places.
The purpose of the C.E. Training is to gain an understanding of the principles and practices of Christian Endeavor. In
view of this fact, it is the aim of the class to have as many open discussions as possible. The
meeting last Sunday consisted of a series of questions and answers on that work. After the opening prayer and song
service, the president, Ernest Milton, opened the meeting proper with a short talk as to what the program would be.
He then proceeded to ask questions which were answered by the members, all present taking part.

Problems that would arise on a deputation were given thorough attention. The class this year intends to have a large
number of deputations. Already, a number have been sent out. They are bringing back favorable reports of work done. Mooresville,
Covington made a report concerning a deputation to which he, O'Connor, and Fields went two Sundays ago. The class has
been working at Mooresville for the last two or three years with good results. The program of the C.E. class
last Sunday was for the new men especially as they will represent the class at different times and places and
therefore must become acquainted with the problems which will arise on deputations.

The Praise-meeting of the Woman's Auxiliary convened in the basement of the church on Tuesday evening. Miss Bessie Blakeney, a
missionary to Japan, gave a splendid lecture. A free-will offering of more than $150 was subscribed.

Miss Lois Barnette was at home for the weekend.

Saturday, the 18th:
3:30 - Davidson vs. Lenoir-Rhyne.
7:30 - Movies, Gym.

Sunday, the 19th:
10:00 - Bible Class.
1:15 - C.E. Training School.
2:00 - Ministerial Band.
6:00 - "Y" Service.

Tuesday, the 21st:
7:30 - Eumenean Literary Society.
7:30 - Philanthropic Literary Society.
8:30 - Basketball, Junior vs. Senior.

The Shops for Men:
New Slip-Over Sweaters $3.00
Listen fellows! Slip into this slip-over sweater and slip out of doors, and let the rest of the world go
by! Exactly like the illustration in solid colors of powder blue, tan, or gray, with contrasting colors. It is light
enough to be worn under a coat or heavy enough to be worn as a sweater. Moderately priced.

The Greater Bon Marché
The Shops for Men---Trade Street Entrance

Sunday School Work by Students Gains Impetus

Davidson Five Years Ago:
The student body has decided to erect a bronze tablet in honor of those who died in France. Now for
the donor of an attractive set of gates at the entrance of the campus on which this tablet may be
placed.

The Sunday School work, piloted by Spotty Moffett, seems to be growing rapidly. Several new points around Davidson are being
worked. Last Sunday, one new Sunday School was started at Oak Grove. Not only the students who go out to
teach every Sunday are interested, but also in each Sunday School those attending show interest and enthusiasm. The students who
went to Shearer Chapel last Sunday were I.T. Gibbs, G. McMillan, F.P. Jones, R.S. Lowrance, I. McCutchen, C. Patterson, G.
Sims, and A.C. Ray. There were 60 members present. Gibbs led the singing, which proved to be one of the
features of the meeting. Patterson remained until evening to help with the C.E. meeting. Franklin, W. Purdy, Yeargan, and Phillips
attended Sunday School at the Mill Chapel. In the absence of the superintendent, Franklin had charge. W. Purdy led the
music, and the other students helped with the teaching. There were about 30 present. It is interesting to note that
the Sunday School has recently started a library. Due to the small size of the Sunday School, much good will
no doubt come from the circulation of these books.

A new Sunday School was started at Oak Grove last Sunday. M.C. Lyerly, C. McCarty, and A.N. Moffett will have
charge of the work in this Sunday School. There was no organization last Sunday, as only 13 were present. The
prospects are good, however. Organization will take place next Sunday.

A regular meeting was held at the Convict Camp last Sunday afternoon at 3:30. E.R. Pritchett was the speaker of
the afternoon. Voss led the singing. Others taking part were A.Y. Bowie, Paul Freeland, and J.M. Garrison. Magazines were distributed
after the service.

Calendar:
Thursday, the 16th:
7:30 - Eumenean Literary Society.
9:00 - Philanthropic Literary Society.

Friday, the 17th:
7:15 - Basketball, Fresh vs. Juniors.
8:30 - Stunt Night, Shearer Hall.

Saturday, the 18th:
3:30 - Davidson vs. Lenoir-Rhyne.
7:30 - Movies, Gym.

Sunday, the 19th:
10:00 - Bible Class.
1:15 - C.E. Training School.
2:00 - Ministerial Band.
6:00 - "Y" Service.

Tuesday, the 21st:
7:30 - Eumenean Literary Society.
7:30 - Philanthropic Literary Society.
8:30 - Basketball, Junior vs. Senior.

Davidson wins third victory of the season. In a somewhat one-sided, but nevertheless hard-fought game, the Wildcats opened their 1919
football season by defeating the scrappy Guilford team 33 to 0.

For a number of years, Davidson has been without a band. There may have been a time when Davidson had
one, but the present student body does not remember it. Mueller has put in a requisition to the War Department
for a band leader. It is likely that this request will be granted, but if it isn’t, there are enough
musicians here to find a good leader among them.
