THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 9, 1924

Bill Heston Writes of Extended Bumming Trip Made By Reg. L. Price and Himself

As every Davidson student well knows, it is strictly against all precedent or rules of etiquette for a member of the Davidson student body to pay railroad fare. “Bumming” is the prescribed mode of travel, and by that term is meant the accepting of anything that has the semblance of being free from rides, meals, lodging, entertainment, on down to cigarettes and the matches thereto. R. L. Price, of Charlotte, and Bill Heston, of Atlanta, both graduates of Davidson last year, have put in a claim as the champion “bummers” of College, and challenge anyone to equal their record established during the past summer.

These two knights of the road traveled all the way to Canada and back to Charlotte, thanks to the generosity of passing motorists. The start was made within two hours after they had received their diplomas on June 4th. Attired in regulation army uniforms with 35-pound packs strapped to their backs, they set out in high spirits, confident of reaching their destination in record time. This they did, for June 13th found them in Buffalo, having stopped off in Harrisonburg, Va. for three days, and for one day in Pittsburg. Only once did they experience difficulty securing rides, and that was on the Lincoln Highway crossing the Allegheny Mountains in western Pennsylvania. They had to walk some 15 miles there, but made up for it on Friday, June 13th, by traversing the entire 260 miles between Pittsburg and Buffalo in 11 hours.

One day was spent at the Falls, a wonderful and inspiring sight, according to their reports, and well worth coming a thousand miles to see. A visit was also paid to Queenston, Canada, and a boat ride taken across Lake Erie to Crystal Beach, Canada’s famous amusement park. It might be well to mention here that they had sent a suitcase containing civilian clothes ahead of them to each large city by parcel post so they could look presentable upon reaching these cities.

Monday, June 16th, saw them turn their faces homeward once more, and from then on their anthem was “I’m South.” They crossed New York State by way of the Mohawk Valley, along the foothills of the Adirondacks, arriving in Albany the afternoon of the 18th. From Albany, they took the day trip down the Hudson River to New York City and enthusiastically endorse this as the most beautiful scenic trip that can be taken anywhere. The trip takes nine hours and the scenery is beautiful beyond description. The boys found New York to exceed even their wildest flights of imagination and spent two days there in sight-seeing and theatre-going. A boat trip entirely around Manhattan Island was taken, thus giving them views of the wonderful sky-line from all points.

From New York, they went to Philadelphia by rail. Bill had relatives in Philadelphia, and two days were spent with them. Two days were also spent in Easton, 40 miles north. While there, the boys visited Lehigh and Lafayette, also the Bethlehem Steel plant and the Ingersoll Rand plant. They saw the University of Pennsylvania and Bryn Mawr College in Philadelphia. During their stay there, they heard the famous jazz orchestras of Vincent Lopez and Ted Weems.

Leaving Philadelphia, they proceeded to Washington by rail, stopping off between trains in Baltimore. One day was spent in Washington sight-seeing, and both boys declared that it was the most beautiful city that they had ever seen. They visited several of the government buildings: the White House, the Capitol, the Smithsonian Institute, and others. Thursday, June 26th, they donned the khaki once more and set out for Charlotte, reaching there on the afternoon of the 28th, after 24 of the most eventful and exciting days of their lives. During the entire trip, 2,500 miles were covered, out of which they only walked 30. They were given rides by 75 cars for an average “lift” of 32 miles. Each boy spent $65.00, this including every expense. They enthusiastically recommend this as a novel and enjoyable way to travel and spend a vacation, and also as a very inexpensive method of seeing America first.

Miss Katherine Mathews, of Washington, D. C., will teach this winter in Davidson’s graded schools.

Dr. J. W. McConnell continues to improve, and is expecting to resume his duties at the infirmary Wednesday.

Professor Fleagle Makes Address to Volunteers

Speaks of Power in Christ and Human Need of This Same Power

Speaking to the Volunteer Band last Sunday morning, Prof. F. K. Fleagle discussed in a very interesting manner the Power of Christ. He read from the ninth chapter of Matthew the account of the healing of the afflicted woman who touched the hem of Christ's garment, and based his remarks on the power that was used to heal her. “Christ knew that someone had been helped, because power had gone from Him. He was dependent on power just as we are, for He never said ‘I have power or I am power,’ but He did say ‘All power is given unto me.’ In healing this woman some of His healing power was used, and He felt the loss of it.

“When power is used for anything, it is gone and has to be replaced by more power. There was a never-ending stream of power flowing into Christ to take the place of what was used in doing His wondrous works. We are constantly in need of power to perform our Christian duties, and should keep the line of communication with Christ clear of all obstacles which come between us and Him and shut off the power from our lives. The day of miracles is not past, for we can see the evidences of the power of Christ in the lives of our missionaries who have done things which, without divine aid, would have been impossible.

“Christ was in the world and in the throng, but He retained His individuality. We are in the world and in the throng, but having the power of Christ we can be in the crowd and the crowd will know that we are Christians.” Tom Barr presided and led the singing. All new men interested in the service are urged to come out to the meeting.

STUDENTS SAW GAME PLAYED ON BOARD

For the boys whose bank account or their already large supply of unexcused absences prevented their making the trip to Winston-Salem Saturday, the scoreboard at the station Saturday furnished them with an accurate account of the game, and let them know just what was doing every minute of the game. The plays started coming in at 3:48 o'clock, and a large crowd was present to watch the progress of the game. They were full of pep, and when the announcement came that Davidson had scored a touchdown the people in Mooresville wanted to know if there wasn't a game at Davidson.

The board was placed on a baggage truck and Shorty Howell and Jim Carr used this as their platform to work. As the play came in Shorty read it out and Jim marked it up on the board. In this way everyone knew exactly where the ball was and in whose possession.

TRACK DOPE

A promising squad of 30 aspirants has survived the first two weeks of preliminary track training. This experimental grind has given Coach Tilson a good line on the respective prowess and ability of the individual candidates. Immediate interest is centered on the cross-country team. Several men have been bidding for berths on this team and at least six of these are showing up well, Williford, a star distance man, setting a fast pace for his would-be teammates. Captain Gracey thinks also that he has uncovered two speedy dash men as well as some healthy runners for the longer distances. Good material is being developed for the field events. Every afternoon from four to six are the practice hours. Coach Tilson is posting a comprehensive schedule on the gym bulletin board daily. Regular training begins this week. This will be greatly facilitated by the grading of the track which is promised in the near future.

The track team offers an ideal field to a man anxious for a Varsity berth. Fully a dozen events are cinched. In some of these there is very little competition.

Entire Heating Plant is Gone Over Before Winter

Warren-Webster Company of Atlanta Puts System in First-Class Shape

The race with winter, so far as the heating situation is concerned, is just about over, according to Mr. Jackson. The leak that has been holding the steam out of the Barracks is expected to be fixed and the system ready for use before the week is over. A bad leak in the main line developed underSouth Barracks and has been holding off the heat from that wing of the system. It was necessary to remove the faulty pipes buried eight feet underground. A force of repairmen began work on the break as soon as it developed, and according to all knowledge of repairing, it should be finished by October 10th at least. Warren-Webster Company, installers of the system, say that they are at a loss to account for the giving way of this portion of the line, but are standing at all times ready to adjust any trouble that may arise. In a long-distance call with the Atlanta office, Mr. Jackson was assured that Warren-Webster Company was ready and anxious to stand behind their work, also adding that they had increased their service department and were peculiarly fitted to make quick and satisfactory adjustments of any trouble that may develop.

It is the custom of the college to turn the heat on some time before it is actually needed in order to allow for any repairs that may have to be made. While the prolonged dampness in September, followed by the drop in temperature, made a certain amount of heat a close ally to good study, still no noticeable inconvenience was suffered and there is all reason to believe that repairs will be made long before the steam is turned on for the winter. Davidson is fortunate in having one of the best-equipped heating systems to be found in the South, and with such a concern as Warren-Webster Company to back up the close vigilance of the college service department, there will be no lack of heat when it is needed.

Fine Weather Helps the Sunday School Workers

Davidson students assist in the services at four Sunday Schools: at Shearer, Cornelius, Mill Chapel, and the Convict Camp. Six boys go out to Shearer every Sunday afternoon. L.L.B. Gibbs is in charge of this school and teaches the Men's class. McMillan teaches the Young Men's class, Archie Ray the Young Ladies’ class, and C.V. Patterson teaches the Girls’ class. Ed Miller teaches the Older Ladies’ class. There was an attendance of 47.

The meeting at the Convict Camp was shortened on account of it being visitors’ Sunday. Lyerly gave a very interesting talk to the men, and Viernes entertained with a cornet solo. Copies of the New Testament translation were distributed. The students who attended were Joe Garrison, A. Moffett, Lyerly, Pritchett, and Viernes.

Wade Allison, Tom Barr, and Tag Guiton went to the Cornelius Sunday School. Tom Barr led the singing. The attendance was good, with 65 present. A Junior C.E. Society is to be organized there next Sunday.

Mr. Jackson is in charge of the Sunday School at Mill Chapel. Wallace Purdy plays the organ. Purdy and Franklin teach classes in the school. Several of the Davidson C.E. Society students have volunteered to help with the work at the Chapel. There was an attendance of 41 last Sunday. The usual number of students attended.

1. Students missing five (5) consecutive days from the boarding house will receive a two-thirds refund at the end of the month. A full refund will be given if absent two weeks or longer—notice having been given beforehand in both cases.
2. Students must give five (5) days’ notice to the managers before changing boarding houses.
3. All board must be paid by the fifteenth (15) of each month.
4. All board must be paid before changing boarding houses.
5. No meals will be served later than fifteen minutes after the meal bell rings—INCLUDING SUNDAY.

New Slip-Over Sweaters

Listen fellows! Slip into this slip-over Sweater and slip out of doors, and let the rest of the world go by! Exactly like the illustration in solid colors of blue, light tan, or gray, with contrasting colors. It is worn enough to be worn under a coat or heavy enough to be worn as a sweater. Moderately priced.

Exchanges

Literary Societies

Stephen Leacock, popular speaker, who addressed us here some time ago, hit the mark with his lecture “Frenzied Fiction.” Agnes Scott, The Agonistic.

Faculty shows several changes in its large personnel. Ten new members have been added to take care of the students, but two of the old professors are on leave of absence to do research work. “Trinity Chronicle.”

Freshman badges are distributed to the new class by council officials. “Trinity Chronicle.”

Benefactor’s Day observed annually by Trinity College. October 3rd, a half-holiday, was arranged, largely devoted to a history of the college. “Trinity Chronicle.”

Co-education is on the increase. The Wake Forest Law School has enrolled one woman student this year, enlarging in all directions. “Trinity Chronicle.”

Record enrollment of 1,600 marks the opening of C.C.W. Three new buildings are already completed and three others are now under construction. The number of new members being added makes a total of 199. The faculty is also increased. “The Carolinian.”

Enrollment surpasses the 1,500 mark—largest in the history of Auburn. Electrical engineering leads with 390 students. The Auburn Engineers made a good showing at Camp Meade, Md., placing themselves second in the rifle match. Sixty-two men attended this annual meet.

The Baptists seem to be expanding in all directions. Three new buildings are already completed and three others are now under construction. “The Carolinian.”

Pandemic

At its last meeting, the Pandemic Literary Society had the usual program, consisting of a debate, an oration, and current events. A report was also given by L.L.B. Gibbs, treasurer, of the financial standing of the society. The most important feature of the meeting, however, was the election of the new officers: R.W. Oeland, president; H. Hollingsworth, vice-president; A. McIlwaine, secretary; L.L.B. Gibbs, treasurer; H.B. Price and F.W. Franklin, critics; J.P. Webb, sergeant at arms; L.L.B. Gibbs and Hiss Price, marshals. These officers will be installed at the next meeting of the society.

Eumenean

An enthusiastic and well-attended meeting, featured by a live and interesting debate, an unusually good oration, and current news thrown in, was the program of the last meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society. The subject for debate was Resolved, That the American farmer would be benefited by the fixing of prices of all farm products by governmental authority. A.M. Moffett, C.I. Smith, and F.A. Hopkins defended the question and won over Warren Oxden, Paul Freeland, and James Gladney, the gentlemen of the negative. “Scarper Eodem” was the subject that W.A. Christian chose for his oration, which was followed by Wade Allison’s summary of current events. The reviewer, N.G. Patterson, gave a favorable report and recommended all the speakers for credits. Very remarkable indeed, all the members who had been booked for the program were present at the meeting.

One hundred and twenty Freshmen answered the first call to football practice, surpassing all records for the number of Fresh candidates—Plainsman.

The student body will wear uniform caps made in college colors. It will be found of great value in helping their yell leaders to devise stunts for the coming games.—Austin (Tex.) Kangaroo.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA (Continued from page 1)

Ten faculty and fourteen student members make up the present membership of the Davidson College Circle. The other members are: Dr. W.J. Martin, Dr. M.E. Sentelle, Dr. W.R. Grey, Dr. J.M. McConnell, Dr. C.M. Richards, Dr. T.W. Lingle, Dr. J.M. Douglas, Mr. F.W. Hengeveld, Mr. F.L. Jackson, Mr. W.L. Van Noppen, M.S. Beall, R.E. Boggs, J.R. Briggs, J.M.C. Covington, C.M. Davis, J.P. Hendrix, J.A. Lake, C.M.S. McIlwaine, and H.B. Price.

Philanthropic

The Phi Literary Society held its regular weekly meeting on last Thursday evening at 7:30 o'clock. After the devotionals and minutes, the regular program was begun. A debate was the most interesting part of the program. The query, Resolved, That Davidson College will be justified in offering pecuniary benefits to athletics, proved a good question for debate. L.C. Calhoun and W.R. Story upheld the affirmative side of the question, while W.H. Fitts and W.L. Baker upheld the negative. The decision of the judges was for the negative. H.M. Wells gave an oration on True Davidson Spirit. After the program, the following new members were initiated into the society: R. Glenn, R. Andrew Love, B.W. Dickson.

LIBRARY NEWS

Rev. W.R. Coppedge, of Rockingham, N.C., has given to the library a Maori axe, found many years ago in New Zealand, by T.B. Neilson, a Scotchman living on the island in the middle of the last century. The Maoris were neolithic men using weapons and tools of polished stone as late as 1770.