TH EDAVI Vol. XII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 16, 1924 No. 5

Eve of Lenoir Game | Night Which Promises Class Stunts and Feature Acts to Provide Two Hours of Joy

ORCHESTRAS FEATURE Dramatic Club Will Present Fine One-Act Play Written by Professor Erwin

Hot Ziggity! Tomorrow night the much-talked-of, the long-thought-of Stunt Night which will usher in the court jesters and royal buffoons
of Davidson onto the lime-lit stage of frolic and delight. A program, varied and variegated of several different colors and
tunes, will provide the entertainment, the student body and their guests will be the first-night audience, and the whole thing
promises to go up in a huge blaze of colorful mirth, song, fact and fancy, the like of which has
never been seen on the campus of the college. Strictly popular prices will be in vogue.

First and foremost, this will be the “stepping out party” of the Glee Club. New members that have never appeared
before the public before will be given a chance to show their “bird” abilities. But old members will be given
a chance to show that they still can entertain. Piggy Martin, last year’s popular comedian, will be there in force.

Each of the three upper classes will have an individual stunt, and possibly certain members of the Freshman class will
perform. The individual stunts of the classes are managed by capable men, who are familiar with such things. The Senior
class will present The Shooting of Dan McGrew, presented in Hollywood. The name promises to be interesting at any rate.
The Juniors under the direction of Woodrow Wilson, and assisted by such men as Forest Franklin, George Smith, and Count
Davis, have gotten up a stunt which they believe will carry off all honors for the night. The Sophomores under
Willard Kearns’ direction claim they (Continued on page 3)

The Aircraft Shenandoah Pays Hill Midnight Visit Pride of the Navy Skips Charlotte to Fly Over Old Davidson

And the students of Davidson College did get to see the big cigar that floated silently over here last Tuesday
night while the inhabitants of Charlotte and Gastonia waited in vain for the pride of Uncle Sam's Navy. Ample information
had been received some time in advance by means of radio and other means of intelligence. When the Shenandoah came
and after a big whoop from Red Smith, who was perched on top of the tank, the boys, new and
old, came scurrying like rats from their rooms. The big dirigible slithered directly over their heads, the five motors sending
a boom that vibrated the ozone around about. The Shenandoah was on the first leg of her 9,000 mile trial
trip, which is the longest that a craft of this kind has ever taken. The giant balloon started from Washington
at 4:00 o'clock, and it reached Davidson at high midnight. The moonlight and all other natural accessories were exactly right
for glimpsing her high above, and the boys took full advantage of the magnificent sight. Of course, one or two
got scared and ran in the buildings for fear that she would fall on them. One Fresh said that he
heard somebody talking when the ship passed, but upon reflection, thought perhaps that it was himself hollering. She came, she
went and with very little time attached thereto. Shorty Love, from the heights of the water tower, asked for a
ride to Charlotte, but was turned down on account of lack of room. Those who missed the sight are awaiting
the return trip of the craft, which will be made over the same route.

“Y” Congregation Hears Talk by Dr. C. C. Raynal Pastor of Statesville Church Selects Titus as Example for Students

Dr. C. C. Raynal, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Statesville, was the speaker at the "Y" service last
Sunday evening. Dr. Fraser Hood introduced the speaker, saying that he was a man of ability and a scholar of
high degree.

“I want to talk to you about Titus,” began Dr. Raynal, “who was the fellow worker of Paul. Titus was
one of the Gentile Christians and was co-operating with Paul in his work. There are many instances in which Paul
speaks of his love for Titus. At one time he said that there was a great door opened to him
at Troas, but there was no comfort because Titus was not there.

Dr. Raynal continued by naming a number of occasions on which Paul applied special titles in speaking of Titus, thus
proving his deep regard for him. Often Paul called him his brother and fellow worker. “Not only did Paul love
Titus,” said the speaker, “he had great confidence in him. There were many times when Paul was so busy that
he had to leave a great deal of the work for Titus to do. Paul knew that the work would
be done perfectly, even as he himself would attempt to do it. There was an eye to eye and a
heart to heart understanding between Paul and Titus.

“Another thing that speaks well for Titus,” said Dr. Raynal, “is the fact that Paul depended on him. This was
one of the great- (Continued on page 6)

A Psychological Test of Freshies Makes New Mark

The annual Psychological test for the present Freshman class was held about a week ago, and many of the new
boys are breathing easier, for the name of the test had many of them frightened beyond measure. The highest score
made was 214 out of a possible 220. This was the highest score that has ever been made at Davidson.
This is also the highest score that has been made on a similar test in the United States, and when
a student at the University of Washington, at Seattle, made the same score, a news item was made of the
feat and published all over the country. The lowest score made by any man in the class was 53.

The median this year was 153, which is an exceptionally good average. This indicates that 50 per cent made a
grade higher than this, and 50 per cent made a grade lower than 153. The normal median is 148, which
has been made by the three upper classes. The high grade of the present Freshmen class would indicate that the
class as a whole is somewhat better than the average Freshman class. One per cent of the class made 211
or better, the upper 25 per cent made 178 or better, and the lower 25 per cent made 120 or
lower. The score of 153 shows that the present class has more high score men in it than any other
class. The class is the largest that has been examined, 261 taking the test. The test shows that the men
around 17 years of age make the highest score, those older and younger making less. This would indicate that 17
is the best age to enter college. No person is told his grade, as this is against a ruling of
the faculty. However, a man can pretty well tell what he made on the test. These tests do not show
what grades a man will make in his studies. It does show the possibilities in a student’s mental make-up, and
every student should make the best of these possibilities. The mere presence of ability is worthless unless its value is
realized and developed.

Honorary Fraternities Are Asset to Students On Davidson Campus Six National and Two Local Honorary Fraternities on the Hill Offer
Opportunity Societies Open to Upperclassmen Who Attain Standing in College Activities

Davidson College boasts of an unprecedented combination of honorary fraternities, including in their membership only those who have attained prominent
success in one or more lines of activity. The purpose of these organizations “is to inspire, in those who enjoy
the privileges extended by them, an ambition to perfect their ability.” Association with others who have the same ideals, and
exchange of ideas with members more experienced, develop in the man, just initiated, a new determination, and open to him
fields of vision and research unknown to him beforehand. These associations do not primarily offer a reward for outstanding success
in college life, rather they offer a much-valued opportunity for greater service. It is not remarkable to note that the
men who comprise the membership of these honorary groups are the men, who from the first stand out as men
of ambition and vision. It is not usual that a man who shifts neglectfully through his first two years, suddenly
takes a new lease on life and makes such a notable success in the activity or activities, in which he
is interested, that membership in one or more of the honorary fraternities cannot be denied him. A close scrutiny of
the membership rolls reveals a fact, not unusual enough to arouse wonder! that is, that the larger number of theMembers
are the men who, in their first years of college life, have set definite goals, the attainment of which has
led them into outstanding success. Six national and two local honorary fraternities constitute Davidson's roster of honorary associations. This group
includes a literary, a chemical, a physics, a journalistic, a forensic, a military, and a scholastic association. Besides these, another
of the honorary fraternities represented on the campus offers membership to the leaders in all lines of college activity, extending
the scope of its membership to include all outstanding campus leaders.

First on the list of honorary fraternities naturally comes Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest of the Greek letter college societies
or fraternities, and, in fact, progenitor of the entire college fraternity system. It was organized on December 5, 1776, at
the College of William and Mary, at Williamsburg, Va. There are now about 99 chapters in the leading colleges and
universities in America. Phi Beta Kappa is primarily an honorary scholastic fraternity, and membership is secured only by attaining an
average of over 90 percent in scholastic work for three years, as well as excelling in other college activities.

Next on the list would be Omicron Delta Kappa, whose membership lists include men who have distinguished themselves in every
branch of college endeavor. Athletes, scholars, debaters, writers, and college leaders, in general, are banded together in a fraternity that
is doing much to better campus conditions. It is a functioning organization, and its members are not chosen until after
their first three years of undergraduate work. For three years, a man must prove his worth and merit, and at
the beginning of his fourth, he is honored by admission to the ranks of the chosen few. The men comprising
the organization are chosen because they are proficient along one line of college work, but rather because they have turned
their efforts into several fields of campus activity while becoming a leader in one.

Other honorary organizations include The Scabbard and Blade, an organization that has been instrumental in the material development of military
work at Davidson (Continued on page 7).

Wofford Puts Up a Stubborn Defense but Succumbs to Wildcat Attack

Blocked Punt by Boggs Accounts for the Single Touchdown

FIELD GOAL ATTEMPTED

Davidson Guards Break Through and Get Many Tackles—Backfield Lacked Punch

Davidson defeated the Wofford Terriers Saturday, 7 to 0, when Sook Boggs broke through the line into an opposing punt
and fell on the ball as it rebounded over the South Carolina goal line, scoring the only touchdown of the
game. The fourth straight victory of the Wildcats and the second home game was won as a hot October sun
broiled down upon the two teams of panting players and a good crowd of spectators. The touchdown play came only
a few moments after Wick Black missed a field goal by three inches, as his 35-yard place kick sailed into
the Wofford right goal post. The Wofford team took the ball on the 20-yard line and after being thrown for
losses by Vance, whose driving charges equaled those of Boggs, they attempted to punt out of danger.

The score was made in the third quarter, after the fighting South Carolinians had held the Davidson team to no
score in the first two periods. "Rip" Majors’ crew rose to "pearly heights" in the last few minutes of the
first half, when Davidson carried the ball on the greatest offensive drive of the game to the Wofford five-yard line.
With four downs to put it over, the Davidson backs were sent into the well-named "adamantine" wall of the Major-Sutton
line. The ball went over one-half yard from the goal line. For the first time this year, Wick Black was
unable to go for first down when called upon; there were three Wofford linemen where there should have been a
hole. When Wofford made a poor punt out, Davidson again secured the ball within striking distance, but after two passes
had fallen (Continued on page 6).

Johnson Smith Quintette Charms Davidson Boys

Benefit to Davidsonian Shown as Negro Spirituals Harmonize on Friday

Last Friday night, the “Biddle Boys" again performed before the Davidson student body with even greater success and before a
larger crowd than before. Notwithstanding the fact that a large number of students were kept away by reviews and various
other activities, a good crowd turned out to see the colored musicians from Charlotte, who have built up a splendid
reputation throughout this part of the country. A varied program was rendered, which consisted of both vocal and instrumental selections.
The most popular numbers were the old negro spirituals sung by the quintet, such as “Walkin’ in De Light,” “Swing
Low, Sweet Chariot,” “Gwine Up,” “Hand Me Down the Silver Trumpet, Gabriel,” “Ezekiel Saw the Wheel,” and several others characteristic
of the Southern negro. These were followed by two tenor solos entitled “A Son of the Desert” and “By the
Waters of Minnetonka.” Every one of the selections was appreciated by the audience, and the singers were continually encored. With
the exception of a classical interpretation of monks “In a Monastery,” the remainder of the program consisted of modern selections
by the Jazz Orchestra. Some nifty syncopation was produced by the (Continued on page 5).

Professor Heath Makes Scholarly Address to Club

Prof. I. J. Heath, a member of the faculty of Salem College, delivered an interesting lecture before the members of
the International Relations Club, townspeople, and students, in the History room in Shearer Hall, last Thursday evening. In introducing the
speaker, Dr. Lingle gave a brief history of the International Relations Club and its work at Davidson. The club was
organized in 1914, several members of the faculty and students of foreign languages in the college being its charter members.
At present, M. W. Trawick, of the Senior class, is president. The speaker took for his subject, “The Contribution of
the Czechs to the Reconstruction of Europe,” giving a short history of the Czechs and telling of their efforts to
aid in the reconstruction of Europe.

“Bohemia is the principal part of Czechoslovakia,” said the speaker. “The Czechs became the masters of their country in the
fifth century, after having driven all oppressors out of their boundaries. The people were Christianized about 783. After this period,
they lived peacefully until a war broke out between them and the Teutons. Another war began in 1273, and the
country was under the Hapsburg rule.” Professor Heath then gave a sketch of the life of John Huss, an intense
patriot of his country, who was martyred on July 6, 1415. Another interesting incident that was mentioned was the organization
of the Moravian Church, which held its first meeting in 1457. After these outstanding facts in history, the speaker dwelt
for a moment or two upon each important event that had taken place from then until the present, entertaining his
audience intensely, and making those who are interested in history feel that they know more about the Czechs than they
had known before.

Lenoir College Students To Come Here on Special Saturday

Promises to be One of the Biggest Days of the Year—Many Will Attend

Friday and Saturday promise to be big and eventful days for the Davidson campus. The days will be full and
exciting ones for the Davidson students, with plenty of entertainment being afforded, and the possibility of many thrills. Not only
will the students spend a pleasant weekend, but many visitors are expected to come to Davidson, especially for the game
with Lenoir, who want to see the big team in action against the little Wildcat line. Lenoir will bring down
a special trainload of students, and the students and team expect to give Davidson a visit of a whole day.

The weekend of entertainment begins Friday night when the Freshmen and Juniors meet on the hardwood court. Both of these
teams have been defeated, but by narrow margins, which would indicate a thrilling contest. This event will be immediately followed
by the stunt night performance, when fun will predominate and Shearer Hall will revel in laughter. Every seat is expected
to be taken that night. An evening of frolicking and entertainment has been prepared. The program tends to supersede any
previous performance of this nature.

Saturday, the hefty Lenoir team will make its advent at Davidson. It is understood that if Lenoir wins this game,
she will be satisfied with the entire season. Weight is the predominating factor in the Lenoir team, but the last
game indicates that something more than weight will be used against the Wildcats. Many people will come to Davidson (Continued
on page 7).
