THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 1, 1924

Major Hearn Addresses Farewell Letter Expressing His Views of Davidson Life

The few words printed here express the spirit of the man who is leaving Davidson for another field. His work
here has been to better conditions where he could, especially in the military department, and he has done work that
already bears fruit. Major Hearn is admired and loved by those most closely associated with him, and is respected by
everyone who knows him. The following is the farewell message from Major Hearn:

“Commencement will terminate my four years of service with Davidson. The Manchu Law requires one year out of five to
be on duty with troops. Accordingly, I shall be transferred this summer.

“I wish to address a few farewell thoughts to the student body before departure.

“When first entering upon my official duties as head of the Military Department, I was struck with the beauty of
the campus, the grandeur and impressiveness of old Chambers, and the many fine traditions and customs of the Hill.

“Since that time I have often asked myself these questions, ‘What is the greatest and most important thing about Davidson?
What is it that makes it of first importance to the community, to thousands of hearts and homes, and of
so great importance to the Church and State?’ I have come to the conclusion that it is the Why of
its existence.

“On Davidson campus the issues of the times are known. These distinctive and dangerous forces and influences which stalk through
the land, invading fireside and pulpit, school room and state house, spreading and producing ignorance and superstition, disloyalty and crime,
confusion and corruption, evils, doubt and disbelief, are no strangers here. Their whence and whither, where and what, are facts
known to those who toil for and serve this Church institution. It is also known that they battle not alone
nor in a losing cause. Not only have they the loyal support of homes throughout 19 states which annually enroll
their sons, the power of the Church, and the substance of the land, but also the inspiration and guidance of
that all-powerful Spirit which has through the ages led on from victory unto victory.

“Davidson knows her mission and recognizes it as being: ‘To send out every man a Christian, highly resolved to serve
Church and State and to walk in the fear of the Lord in whatsoever vocation, indiscriminately, but more especially that
of the ministry and the mission field.’

“To accomplish this purpose, (1) every man is brought into the fold of the Church, taught and schooled in the
Book of Truth; (2) the mind trained and disciplined through the acquisition of a liberal education; (3) the body is
built up and brought under control; (4) the ideals of service, duty, honor and truth are instilled therein.

“Davidson does not send forth her own without also a physical mark of identification, but equips them with a diploma
and a commission which is to certify that she therein imposes her trust, and to admonish them ever so to
walk before God and man that no stain shall come upon that glorious history thus far made by Davidson men.

“I do not know where my new station shall be, but I can be found, it is hoped, for many
years to come, in care of the Adjutant General of the Army, Washington, D. C.

“Good-bye and may Davidson ever ‘Carry On’ and your spirit win many a hard-fought battle.”

T. G. HEARN, Prof. of Military Science and Tactics.

WHAT’S DOING

Thursday, May 8:
3:30 p.m.—Deciding game between winners of Fresh-Soph and Junior-Senior games.
7:30 p.m.—Eumenean and Philanthropic Literary Societies.

Saturday, May 10:
7:30 p.m.—Moving Pictures, The Love Master, starring Strongheart.

Sunday, May 11:
10:00 a.m.—Volunteer Band.
1:15 p.m.—C. E. Training Class.
2:00 p.m.—Ministerial Band.

Exchanges

The University of Minnesota has the largest faculty in any American college, 1,250 in all, while the smallest number, only
two, is the property of Beaver College, Penn.

The first intercollegiate debate by radio was held on the evening of February 27 when the Universities of Oregon and
California discussed the question, Resolved That the Bok Peace Plan be adopted. The briefs of the two teams were exchanged
before the debate to ensure a direct clash of the major issues.

The class averages at Notre Dame for the first semester were as follows: Freshman, 80.7; Sophomore, 79.4; Junior, 81.7; Senior,
82.8.

Up at Massachusetts Tech, the R.O.T.C. infantry men are taught the loading and shooting of a rifle, the manual of
arms, and the school of the squad, by means of moving pictures. The entire class counts in cadence as the
men on the screen execute the manual of arms. This method gives the students an opportunity to observe the manual
of arms and correct their own errors, if any.

At Columbia University, small bronze insignia bearing a white crown upon them are awarded all freshmen who have been reporting
regularly for any of the college activities, both athletic and non-athletic. These are usually the first rewards that the incoming
students receive.

Georgia Tech is working and planning for a Lacrosse team, which will no doubt be the first, or one of
the first, in the South. Tech is developing an athletic system in which each man has an opportunity to participate,
and Lacrosse offers opportunity for the finest type of athletes. It is recognized as demanding more endurance and vitality than
most any form of outdoor or indoor sport.

WILDCAT NINE HONORED (Continued from page 1)

Mr. S. A. Robinson, member of the board of trustees, was called on first. He told of the personal pride
that he has always felt in the athletic record of Davidson, and that her success has been due to the
high standard of sportsmanship that has always been a part of the college traditions. Mr. Query reminded those present that
no mention was to be made of the afternoon's game as “Bygones were to be bygones.” Whereupon, Sam Robinson remarked
that the glorious victory of last year would do him for 20 years to come, if the Wildcats never won
another game. Tim Pharr, '12, and one of Davidson's famous athletes, made a ringing address, dealing with fair play and
clean athletics. A minister and an excellent speaker, he knew how to put his message across to his listeners. “Doc”
LaFar, ’22, and “Pat” Crawford,Last year’s graduate, made short and snappy talks. When W. D. Lawson, Jr., better known as
“Bill,” said a few words, Mr. Query asked him, and the ones who had just spoken, to stand up together.
On their rising together, he said, “There, men, are four of the greatest athletes that ever went to Davidson College.
‘Pat’ Crawford and LaFar have made their names known on the football and baseball field and the basketball courts. ‘Tim’
Pharr was one of the best halfbacks ever at Davidson, scoring against the Navy in one of those games, and
was also a star first-baseman. ‘Bill’ Lawson was one of the best pitchers ever to wear a ‘D,’ and a
star on the gridiron as well.”

Mr. R. A. Love, ’98, told of the old college customs that were in effect at his time at school
and held his listeners for some time. Dr. Douglas, graduate manager of athletics, told of his appreciation of the banquet
and also of the Davidson spirit and standard of sports. F.-L. Smythe and Rev. T. G. Tate, both of Gastonia,
made appropriate speeches. R. H. Bennett, ’16, enthusiastic member of the Association, made his listeners laugh with a good joke
that he got off; Henry Wilson, ’21, also made a hit with a story that he told. Coach “Monk” Younger,
’19, was heard with attention by all and had a vital message to tell of his work and plans for
Davidson's future. Several of the high school boys who had been invited by their coach, “Pat” Crawford, were present, and
Robert Monday said a few words. Calling on the team for speeches, “Red” McPherson responded with a witty outburst that
kept the banqueters holding their sides for a while. Laird, Alford, and Vance also responded. A feature of the occasion
was each one responding to the toastmaster’s invitation to sing out his name, class, and residence. At the close of
the banquet, Mr. Robinson told of the Chambers building soon to be erected and also of the lively interest taken
in Davidson affairs by the Gaston County alumni. The affair closed with yells for the Association by the team and
the entire crowd soon returning to Gastonia.

Visitors: Miss Eloise, who recently has had an attack of influenza, has recovered.

Ministerial Band Gets Ready for Coming Year
New Officers Installed and Several Committees Appointed in Sunday Service

The newly-elected officers of the Ministerial Band were installed at the meeting last Sunday in Shearer Hall. Lee McLean, the
retiring president, after a brief talk on preparation, delivered the charge to the incoming officers, reminding them of the great
responsibility that would be theirs, but which at the same time gave them a wonderful opportunity for serving Christ on
this campus. A. N. Moffett, the new president, gave a brief summary of the progress of the Band during the
past year, and pointed out the opportunities it had for improvement during the coming year. In conclusion, he made an
appeal for full-hearted support from every member in order that the Band might become one of the most vital organizations
on this campus. Reports were submitted by the different committees for the term just ended. Committees for next term were
appointed. The officers are: Moffett, president; Hollingsworth, vice-president; Gladney, secretary; Freeland, treasurer.

Mrs. Lingle Speaks to Ministerial Band Sunday

A special program has been arranged for the meeting of the Ministerial Band Sunday. Mrs. T. W. Lingle will speak
and her message will be in regard to Mother’s Day. Piggy Martin will be present with his quartette to furnish
a special musical program. Mrs. Lingle needs no introduction to Davidson students and a full attendance is expected. Everyone is
invited to the meeting whether they belong to the band or not.

R.O.T.C. Seal for Handbook Designed by W. M. Heston

With the development of the R.O.T.C. department at Davidson during Major Hearn’s stay here, and the increased interest in the
work, the unit has become a distinctive part of student activities. The staff of the P.M.S. and T. put into
effect several new ideas. Captain Weems, who will be P.M.S. and T. next year, has just gotten the first copies
of the seal of the department from the press. W. M. Heston has incorporated the ideas of the staff into
a well-balanced and significant print. In the middle is a large D with a snarling wildcat inside, representing the spirit
of Davidson’s athletic teams. To the left of the D, in the garb of the old days, representing General Davidson,
after whom the college is named, stands a soldier of the frontier days with his long rifle in his hand.
On the opposite side of the D stands a cadet officer of today. Just beneath the D are the four
columns of old Chambers, representing the traditions. Above the D, between the heads of the two soldiers, is the college
seal. On a scroll beneath, that extends from one side of the seal to the other, are the three words
that are the basic ideas of the fighting man’s code: Duty, Honor, Service. The whole expresses the part that the
R.O.T.C. work plays in the college course, symbolizing the ideas and ideals of Uncle Sam’s reserve and active forces.

Exhibition of Clothes and Haberdashery at School Tuesday, May 13th
GEO. O’DONALD, Rep.

Finchley has established a fresh and tasteful standard of attire, which is recognized and accepted by college men. Jackets of
new suits are full-bodied and the trousers of correct collegiate width. Fabrics are impressive in their distinction and quality. Ready-to-put-on
and tailored to measure. Finchley Haberdashery, selected abroad, has uncommon character and value.

6:15 p.m.—Special Mother's Day service at Y. M. C. A. Vespers; Rev. Wade C. Smith will speak.
Monday, May 12:
9:00 p.m.—Meeting of Sigma Upsilon.
Tuesday, May 13:
7:15 p.m.—Pandemic and Metrophilian Literary Societies.
8:45 p.m.—El Club Espanol.
