THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

VICTORY CAFE
A Real Place for Real Eats and Quick Service
West Trade and Poplar Streets: Charlotte
We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE” CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Town News
Dr. Geo. Robson returns to Philadelphia this week where he is to serve as intern at the University Hospital. Misses
Martha and Sarah Hamilton, who are teaching in the Gastonia graded schools, spent the weekend with their parents, Mr. and
Mrs. C. H. Hamilton. Mr. and Mrs. J. S. Caldwell have bought the home of Mr. T. E. Lothery and
are moving here from Mt. Ulla, N. C. Mrs. Brady leaves this week for a visit to her daughter, Mrs.
Douglas Brown, in Greensboro, N. C. Miss Elizabeth Parker, of Norfolk, Va., and Mrs. Brown, of Arkansas, were the guests
of Miss Sarah Lingle last week. Mrs. J. W. Reid and family have moved here from Oklahoma, and are occupying
Mrs. Monroe’s house. J. W. Reid, Jr., has entered the Freshman class of Davidson College.

The Book Lover’s Club was entertained Friday evening at the home of the new president, Miss Lizzie Young. The associate
members of the club were present. It was a fitting introduction to the course of study for this year, which
will be announced later. The Civic League met on Tuesday of last week. A plan was outlined to secure new
members. After the business was disposed of, Miss Shaw made an interesting talk on her trip to Europe this summer.
Mr. and Mrs. James Black, of Badin, N. C., spent the weekend with Mrs. Black’s mother, Mrs. Emma Black. Mr.
and Mrs. W. A. Christian, of Mobile, Ala., spent the week with their son, W. A. Christian, Jr. Rev. and
Mrs. O. F. Yates, of China, have taken an apartment for the winter in the home of Dr. C. R.
Harding. Mrs. Yates is the sister of Mrs. Robson. Dr. Byron Clark, of Salisbury, was here for the Davidson-Elon game
on Saturday afternoon. Mr. and Mrs. Miles Martin and Miss Mary Dennis Martin, of Dallas, Tex., have been guests of
Prof. Currie. Mr. Martin is the brother of Dr. Martin and Mrs. Currie. He has lived in Texas since his
graduation at Davidson in ’88.

Play Presented Monday
“The Fascinating Miss Fanny Brown” Staged for Benefit Local High School
The Davidson Players, under the direction of Fred L. Dendy, presented “The Fascinating Miss Fanny Brown” on Monday evening in
Shearer Hall to a full house. The play was a farce in two acts. The cast of characters were as
follows:
Percival Gale, Manager of Idlewild - Okey Allison
Billy Pearson, only man at hotel - Fred L. Dendy
Henry Dudley, a college sophomore - Archie Ray
Mrs. Caldwell, guest at “Idlewild” - Mary Black
Audrey Caldwell, guest at “Idlewild” - Letitia Curry
Dorothy Dudley, guest at “Idlewild” - Mrs. Douglas Brown
Florence Howe, guest at “Idlewild” - Mrs. Fred Hengeveld
Mrs. Moffat, a neighbor - Johnsie Shelton
Martha, a servant - Nina Holt White

The plot centers around the love affairs of Percy and Florence, and Billy and Dorothy. Percy thinks Billy would be
benefitted if Dorothy were given cause for jealousy. Together they invent “Miss Fanny Brown.” Billy writes love letters to her
and has them ready for mailing. Dorothy eavesdrops and hears Billy and Percy’s plan, and turns the trick on them.
She takes the letters from their hiding place, and Billy thinks that they have been mailed and begins to worry
about the things that might happen. Henry Dudley, Dorothy's brother, arrives and is not seen by anyone except Dorothy. She
induces him to play the part of Miss Brown. It is only with a great deal of hesitancy that he
agrees to help her with her plan. As Miss Fanny Brown, Henry starts many complications in the two love affairs.
Finally, he exposes himself, and Billy and Percy are naturally very much relieved. As the final curtain falls, the lovers
are happy again in each other’s arms.

During the intermission, the Earnest Brothers entertained the audience with mandolin and guitar. Prof. Fred L. Dendy also gave a
very amusing monologue of a young man preparing for his wedding.

MINISTERIAL BAND HOLDS FEAST FOR NEW MEMBERS
Last Saturday night will be remembered by every ministerial candidate of Davidson College as an occasion of pleasure and happiness.
A large number of ministerial students gathered in the basement of the church to welcome the new men with a
feed. The table was decorated with red and black. Streamers hung from the lights, giving the table an attractive appearance.
The menu consisted of Volstead drinks with cakes, etc., to match. After the meal had been completed, each candidate introduced
the man to his right, giving his full name, nickname, and home town. In this manner, everybody became acquainted with
each other. Yancy Bowie was the toastmaster.For the evening. His pep and wit kept every person expectant to see how
he would introduce the next speaker. The first speaker of the evening was Ronald Wilson. His toast was full of
laughs, some at the expense of the Freshmen who were present. Simp Bryant’s phony choruses were next introduced. These consisted
of many favorite songs of the band, led by Bryant himself. A cordial welcome was given to the new men
by Hayden Hollingsworth, who brought out forcibly the need for men who were able “to endure hardness as a good
soldier of Jesus Christ.” Spoofy Moffett, president of the band, gave the next talk. He dealt directly with the ministerial
candidate, bringing out the characteristics that should mark a man who is preparing himself for the Master’s service. The last
toast was given by Dr. C. M. Richards. He gave an interesting talk on the past work of the band,
its organization, and work in his college days. The duty of every candidate to himself, to his college, and to
his God was forcibly brought to the mind of all present.

Martin Succeeds Patton as Glee Club President
Plans for Southern Tour Being Consummated—Milhous is New Manager

Arthur Martin, more popularly known as “Piggy,” has succeeded J. H. Patton, resigned, as president of the Davidson College Glee
Club, and his plans for the club this year are even more extensive than those carried to such a successful
conclusion by the club on its southern tour last fall. In his first call for candidates for the club, much
instrumental and vocal talent was discovered in the freshman class. This new material, in addition to veteran talent, promises to
make the club one of the South’s most successful college musical organizations.

An effort is being made to secure Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, of Charlotte, to direct the club again this year.
Under her supervision last season, the club was heralded throughout the states of North and South Carolina and Georgia as
an exceptional musical organization, and it played to packed houses wherever it went on its southern tour.

The usual “Stunt Night” will be staged in Shearer Hall within the next few weeks, proceeds from which will be
devoted to financing the organization on its various tours to neighboring cities and states. The southern tour, which the club
expects to make again this fall, will be taken in December just before the Christmas holidays, and the business management
of the organization will soon begin the work of mapping out an itinerary. J. F. Milhous has been elected manager
of the club for the ensuing year.

ENROLLMENT THIS YEAR (Continued from page 1)

As expected, the number of Presbyterians greatly exceeds that of the other denominations, there being 511 students who are members
of that church. Of Methodists, there are 154; of Baptists, 14; of Episcopalians, also 14; of A. R. P., 7;
of Lutherans, 5; and of Disciples, 3. The Friends, Reformed, Moravians, and Christian Church each have one member in the
student body. Last year, every Davidson man was a member of some church. This year, this statement can almost be
repeated as all but three members of the Freshman class are affiliated with some denomination.

In the pep meeting held Friday night before the Elon game, the student body started off the year with a
rip-roaring demonstration of peppy yelling and old-time “Down ‘em Wildcat” spirit. It was a cheer rally plus, and old Shearer
rocked to the rafters with the cries of the Wildcats and the Kittens. The Freshmen showed the results of the
leaders’ efforts in training, and large numbers of upperclassmen were present to go the new men one better in the
point of enthusiasm.

The first name given by anyone asked as to who was on the hill over the weekend has been P.
H. Biddle. Everyone consulted was anxious that mention of the name of P. H. Biddle be not omitted from the
Davidsonian so that those who failed to greet him on his visit to the campus may know what they missed.

Since 1868 THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GREETINGS--- 28ers!

Ask any upperclassman where he gets the best and most stylish shoes--for ANY occasion, and he’ll tell you “GILMER-MOORE’S” in
Charlotte. For sports wear, class wear, formal wear---they’re all to be found here NOW!

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

SHOES LUGGAGE

New York Cafe
Davidson, N. C.

When Hungry Call On Us

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing
Largest and Oldest
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE
Shoe Shine In Connection

NONE TOO SMALL

DUNN, President
R. A. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
C. W. A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

NONE TOO LARGE

I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
