THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 10, 1924

WATCH COACH YOUNGER’S CAGERS

THE 1923 WRESTLING TEAM
Top row (left to right)—White, Cochran, Kimsey, Patterson, N. G.
Bottom row—Selser, Lindamood, Cromartie, captain and manager.
Five of these men—White, Patterson, Selser, Lindamood, and Cromartie, are back in uniform and prospects for a winning team are bright. This year, Selser is manager, and Lindamood captains the team.

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

J. M. HENDRIX & CO.
SHOES
Davidson Representative
J. P. HENDRIX
302 West
Samples now on display
WE APPRECIATE YOUR PATRONAGE
J. M. HENDRIX AND COMPANY
GREENSBORO, NORTH CAROLINA

Fraternities Announce Names of Men Pledged
Freshmen to be Initiated After Completion of First Term’s Work

A revised list of the fraternity pledges and initiates taken in during the fall at Davidson College shows that a total of 63 students, the majority of them freshmen, have been or are to be received into membership of the Greek letter organizations. Rules for bids to fraternities have been changed recently by the college faculty, thus moving the rushing period up several weeks earlier than in former years. The following is the revised list, including several upperclassmen:

Pi Kappa Alpha—J. M. White, L. M. Ham, R. H. Buckner, L. D. Elkins, T. G. McSwain.
Kappa Alpha—R. L. Mitchell, J. H. McConnell, E. F. Bohannon, T. F. Anderson, Z. Varnedoe, J. W. Keerans, A. S. Robinson.
Kappa Sigma—V. Williamson, R. R. Glenn, J. D. Malloy, J. A. Simpson, F. L. Wyche, J. I. Groover, H. O. Sapp, R. B. McConnell, J. C. Bernhardt.
Beta Theta Pi—T. E. Gray, J. A. King, A. S. Farnsworth, O. M. Farnsworth, W. H. Branch, R. L. Lincoln, W. R. Sparrow, J. F. Pinckney, Perry Priest.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—J. E.

Trinity has licked a couple of Virginia teams already and is looking good. We saw Va. Tech play Xmas. They have a big hard veteran team that rings anything in sight but is slow on their feet. We could have seen Georgia too but our date didn’t like basketball. Perhaps we'll have another girl next year. Tech beat the Protestant Club of Savannah 39-9; Georgia licked them 31-19. Albany (Ga.) “Y” seems to be the best yet. In about 10 days they licked the Atlanta Athletic Club (8 points); Ga. Tech (5 points); Georgia, Wofford, and Spartanburg “Y.” That looks like the Southern championship in a week. Carolina only beat Charlotte “Y” 31-29. That means that first game will be a corker. 500 Wildcats in Charlotte for the Carolina game. What do you say, fellows? Get the “Billy” Sunday special busses and trot out the U-push ’ems. Walking is good in the nice, brisk weather, too. Americans lick Canadians. Mercer’s Trail—Spartanburg “Y,” Statesville Athletic Club, Greensboro “Y,” N. C. State, Trinity (maybe). Those are all we have heard of. Guilford has the two Frazier lads back, which means an interesting time for the ’Cats. And Carolina. Don't mention it. McDonald, Carmichael, McDonald again, Green, and Cobb. That is something else interesting. Kentucky 33, Vanderbilt 13. Kentucky has a Sophomore team. Two years ago they won the National Prep. Tourney. Perhaps Vandy has a good team after all. And say, fellows, how about dropping those basketball scores by 31 Georgia. We can't keep up with them all.

COACH YOUNGER DEVELOPS RED AND BLACK (Continued from page 1)
tance from the goal, and will force them to take long shots. Who the other two of the quintet will be has not been decided. Nappy Davis (captain), Speck McConnell, Mac Beall, Dan Mallory, Liston Elkins, Ed Morrison, and Litch Huie are all contenders for these positions. The first four are already letter men, while the remaining ones showed up well in class games. In addition to the above, Hewlett and Sapp, at guard, and Hudgins, at center, all of whom are freshmen, have been showing an art in the cage game in their practices at the gym, and Coach Monk has intimated that he may use one of these three to fill one of the gaps. The first game of the season will be Monday night, when the Wildcats meet Charlotte “Y” at the City Auditorium. The Queen City team is considered one of the best “Y” teams in the state, and the relative strength of the Wildcat fighters may be estimated after this fracas. It will be of interest to many students of the upper classes to know that Alex McMillan, Wild-Kitten player last year, is occupying a forward position on the Charlotte team, and is playing a fast and creditable game with that quint. Only one or two slight changes occur in the schedule. A survey of the card shows that eight games will be played on the local court, and three in Charlotte, with the possibility of more at these two points. Only one trip will be made, including three games, one each at Wake Forest, Raleigh, and Guilford. The date of February 9th is open, but a game for that night willbe scheduled within the next few days. Efforts are still being made through the officials to get the team in the Southern tournament in Atlanta. If this fails, their season's das will in all probability be a state tournament. Singletary, Terrible slaughter, Army beat McGill U. at Raleigh this year, and this will afford the team a big chance to demonstrate their ability. With Crawford and Mauze gone, the center and floor guard positions present a problem, but notwithstanding this, the Davidson cagers ought to have a successful season, and the student body is going to have a chance to give them their full support at many of the contests.

T. W. Moose, R. A. Brand, V. S. Broyles, F. S. Wilkinson, W. S. Wood, C. C. Murchison, A. T. Reeves, W. T. Covington: Phi Gamma Delta—W. O. Green, H. H. Hubbard, Jr., G. G. Hope, C. A. Long, A. J. Hewlett, W. A. Christian, E. E. Lingle. Phi Alpha Pi—L. Anderson, R. M. Menzies, H. G. Goodykoontz, W. A. Moss, F. E. Hudgins, A. S. Anderson, E. L. Hollingsworth. Delta Theta Chi—R. W. Edgerton, C. G. Allen, H. S. and J. C. Frierson, W. R. Story, B. F. Earnest, C. F. Monk, W. D. Cox, T. C. Barr, A. T. Rowe, T. E. Poole.

RED AND BLACK CAGE SCHEDULE
January 4—Charlotte “Y”, at Charlotte.
January 17—Statesville A. A., at Statesville.
January 19—University of North Carolina, at Charlotte.
February 2—Guilford, at Davidson.
February 5—Trinity, at Charlotte.
February 6—University of Florida, at Davidson.
February 8—Lenoir, at Davidson.
February 9—Undecided.
February 11—N. C. State, at Davidson.
February 13—University of South Carolina, at Davidson.
February 14—Wake Forest, at Davidson.
February 18—Charlotte “Y”, at Davidson.
February 19—Wake Forest, at Wake Forest.
February 20—N. C. State, at Raleigh.
February 21—Guilford, at Guilford.
February 23—Statesville A. A., at Davidson.
February 27—Washington and Lee, (Place undecided).

HEARD AT INDIANAPOLIS
Mr. Robert P. Wilder, general secretary of the Student Volunteer Movement, who has attended every one of these conventions, said that the one just held was the best convention in the history of the movement. The first report of the registration showed that there were 7,400 delegates representing over 30 countries. By an overwhelming majority, the convention went on record as supporting the following proposal: “We believe war is un-Christian and that the League of Nations is the best means of preventing it, but we would resort to war in case an inevitable dispute has been referred to the League or War Council without successful settlement.” (Continued on page 3)

STUDENTS BACK AT WORK
(Continued from page 1)
Studying remains before the one great event of the scholastic year. The examination schedule has not been given out as yet by Professor Wood, chairman of the committee, but it is thought that it will follow materially the order of both exams held, allowing a maximum of time between successive examinations to allow for preparation. The southern wing of Chambers will be started this spring, according to all reports from officials, and this work, together with other campus improvements, will see the campus once more in a state of hurried activity, approximating the work done in constructing the three new dormitories that now grace Davidson’s grounds. The new Richardson Athletic Field will be ready for spring football and baseball practice. Although the proposed stadium has not been erected, the field itself offers an attraction to all athletes and lovers of outdoor sports with its two fine gridirons, cinder track, and turfed baseball diamond. Much interest is being manifested in the coming basketball season, which offers a heavy schedule for the Wildcat cagers, nevertheless the prospect of many hard-fought games with colleges of several Southern states. Coach Younger has an experienced bunch of players rounding into form and a winning team will no doubt be the outcome from the squad that is practicing daily on the gym floor. Wrestling will soon narrow down to a select squad of the many competitors now practicing. Captain Weems has a husky bunch at work on the mat, all putting forth effort in anticipation of meeting grapplers from Virginia and the Carolinas during the coming months. The college heating plant, finished last year, is giving good service in spite of the cold wave which is the coldest snap enjoyed by Davidsonians since the phenomenal winter of 1917-18. This plant was made with room for the accommodation of the proposed buildings when they are built, thus doing away with all inconveniences due to lack of centralized heating units. The spring term of the 1923-24 session bids fair to eclipse all previous terms as regards athletics and scholarships. Only limited equipment prohibits the taking in of a much larger number of new men next fall than ever before. Future improvements will no doubt see the increased enrollment that has been the dream of both students and faculty alike.

Central Cafeteria “On the Square” Best Place to Eat Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

IN FAVOR THIS FALL
Short, three-button, half-belted ulsters are to be greatly favored this fall. You'll see many of them; but none like the Society Brand Hampton. The difference is in the cut. There’s an air about this overcoat that you will find nowhere else; it’s smartly cut; every detail—the roll of the lapel, the spacing of the buttons, the placing of the pockets—is exactly right. We have a wonderful assortment of fabrics for your selection. Heather mixtures, colorful overplaids—whatever you like, we have it.

Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE
BROWN & McCLAIN
Local Agents