THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 10, 1924

THREE IN A ROW

WAKE FOREST GUILFORD STATE

LAKE AND PATTON ELECTED ASSISTANT TRACK MANAGERS

At the election held last week for assistant track manager, the two highest men were Al Lake and J. H. Patton. Heretofore, the track team has not offered letters to a manager, the manager being selected from the members of the team. This year, however, it has been decided to select a man from the student body to manage the team and work for a letter just as they do in the other major sports.

Next year, the man elected will be allowed to take any one trip that he wishes to take and will be awarded a letter. This is one step that is being taken that shows that the track team is coming to the front and ranking in its importance with the football, baseball, and other teams that are considered in the leading places in college athletics.

Columbia Freshmen were publicly tested recently on their knowledge of school songs. The sophomores were the judges. Those who knew their songs received a yellow tag, and those who didn’t know them received a dose of shoe blackening. Shoe blacking predominated—Ring-Tum Phi.

FURNITURE and UNDERTAKING
Everything For The Home
WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

The Old Stand
CIGARS SANDWICHES CIGARETTES CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS
Successor to L. A. ELLIOTT

THE CAMBRIDGE
For the young man who follows the style trend rather closely. This coat might be termed the happy medium of the loose cut clothes of today. It is made in two and three button.
A SOCIETY BRAND SUIT WORN WITH THE NEW C & K COLLEGE HAT
Tate-Brown Co.
CHARLOTTE

BROWN & McCLAIN

Local A Fountain Fizzes By Bromo Selzer

Horsehides and hickories seem to hold sway these days, so we'll get the baseball upsets and setups off our chest before we start the general dope on who’s who in spring’s other sports. Upset number one was Guilford’s 8 to 4 win over the mightier Wake Forest aggregation, and we would like to mention that Wake Forest is rated a good team this year inasmuch as Guilford is due all the credit for a timely win. Setup number one seems to have been South Carolina for Lenoir. They’ve got South Carolina for Lenoir. Again they down their opposition 4 to 0, and it’s hats off to Lenoir. They’ve got a fast and smooth working outfit and bid fair to rack up a good record this season.

It’s good to see Sion Alford back on the job at short after a minor illness. And speaking of Alfords reminds us, Frank still remains alone in the home run class. How about a few others stepping up to give him a “run” for his money? That's one way of improving the game. Morris, of Carolina, did the grandstand act last week in account for half of Carolina’s 8 to 0 victory over Guilford by closing out a homer with the bases drunk.

Davidson’s real test comes this weekend in four games in a row, three in her own backyard and a return game with Wake Forest in Wake Forest territory. It will be a hard row, but you can’t tell when that Wildcat spirit will produce results. We don’t predict.

Hippo Houck begs pardon to announce that he is now operating a Woolworth Wrestling School, with nothing over ten cents for a lesson. Special attention to cauliflower cultivation.

Things are happening pretty lively in track circles. V. P. I. has taken Davidson into camp only to be beaten out by State and thus lower Davidson’s prospects for state honors. Red Anderson has stepped into the limelight as second honor man in the opening meet, and Gracey continues his one-man track team stunt with a number of points in as many events. North Carolina has taken Clemson into camp and shut out Clemson’s ace dash man, allowing Mr. Chandler only second place in the 220 and not a berth in the century dash. And plans have been changed to convert the Clemson dual meet into a triangular meet with Clemson, Furman, and Davidson entered.

Old Kid Jupiter Pluvius has played havoc with sporting activities on the hill during the past week—raining out the Elon game, the Seminary tennis match, and suspending further activities in the golf tournament. Prospects looked better than the weather to us though, and we believe it would have been better had the weather not intervened.

FRESHMAN SCHEDULE

Coach Rawson’s Wildkitten tossers have, at present, 11 scheduled games. Possibly five more games will be added as the season progresses. The games are:

April 11 — Mooresville High at Mooresville.
April 18 — Charlotte High at Davidson.
April 19 — Gastonia High at Davidson.
April 22 — Concord High at Davidson.
April 25 — (Pending) Carolina Fresh at Chapel Hill.
April 26 — Wake Forest Fresh at Wake Forest.
April 28 — N. C. State Fresh at Raleigh.
April 29 — Trinity Fresh at Durham.
May 3 — Wake Forest Fresh at Davidson.
May 5 — Statesville High at Davidson.
May 6 — M. P. C. I. at Davidson.

Lenoir Whips Wildcats In Hard Fought Game
Younger’s Men Fail to Hit When Hits Meant Runs

Coach Monk’s nine went down fighting before Lenoir’s fast baseball team April 2nd, on Richardson field.by a score of 4-0. Lenoir’s timely hitting, coupled with the Wildcats’ untimely errors accounted for Lenoir’s runs, while the Wildcats failed to find Philip’s benders, getting but six hits with no two in the same inning. Lenoir started the fireworks with two tallies in the third. Whisonhunt doubled to left; he advanced to third on Gresham’s single, but was caught between third and home, Kelly Johnson running him down. Laird let the next man by and then an error and a sacrifice fly brought two men across the plate. In the seventh, Boggs rang up another tally for the Hickory nine. An error won the first sack, two sacrifices carried him to third, and a single by Deaton brought him home. R. Clemmer made the last counter in the eighth frame. A single, an error, and Hawn’s Texas leaguer did the work. Harry Vance’s fielding featured the home team’s defense. He made a shoestring catch in the third that brought the crowd to their feet. Again in the seventh, he pulled down a sky-liner. Harry turned his ankle on this catch and was forced to leave right field to Lucien Wells. The line-up and summary:

Davidson: 
AB R H PO A E 
Simpson, 2b -------- 4 0 0 2 2 0 
Covington, 3b ------ 4 0 0 1 1 1 
Smith, ss ----------- 4 0 2 0 0 0 
Wills, rf ------------ 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Boushee, lf --------- 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Marrow, cf --------- 2 0 1 0 0 0 
Johnson, c ---------- 3 0 1 10 1 0 
Sappenfield, ss ----- 2 0 0 3 3 0 
Laird, p ------------- 0 0 0 1 2 0 
Potts, p ------------- 0 0 0 2 0 0 
x Hastie ------------- 0 0 0 0 0 0 
31 0 6 27 16 5 
x Batted for Laird in eighth.

Lenoir: 
AB R H PO A E 
Whisonhunt, 2b ----- 2 1 2 2 0 0 
Boggs, ss ----------- 4 1 1 5 0 0 
Deaton, 3b ---------- 4 0 3 1 0 0 
Gresham, c --------- 2 1 1 1 0 0 
Gilbert, lf ----------- 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Moose, cf ----------- 2 0 0 0 0 0 
36 4 10 27 11 0

State Is Favorite In Meet With Davidson
Techmen Whip V. P. I. Team Which Won Decision Over Wildcats Last Week

With their 1924 escutcheon emblazoned with a clean-cut victory over V. P. I. at Raleigh Saturday, the N. C. State team will enter the first intra-state track and field meet of the year and are doped to win over the Davidson athletes by a good margin. In the initial fray here last Thursday, the Virginia Techmen consistently ran their way to a 76 1-2 to 49 1-2 win over the Red and Black aggregation, but two days later the invaders fell before State’s great superiority in the weight events, losing by a 71-55 score. Despite the fact that the Virginians won only four out of 14 first places, the contest was close and when the last event was called, they had a chance to tie the Engineers by winning all three places in the javelin throw. They failed to do this, their only strength being in the middle distance races and the high jump. The State outfit is especially strong in the weights, being captained by Hamrick, holder of the North Carolina inter-collegiate record for the shot put. He is supported by Crater. Byrum, winner of both 100 and 220 yard dashes, ran them under the time of the Davidson-V. P. I. meet, but Clark, who hurdled his way to two first places, made the same time as Gracey on the highs. With Koenig back with the Wildcats for the dashes, with Gracey going good, with Anderson and Williford showing up nicely in their first match, and with the two teams well matched in the other events, Coach Ellis’ men are out to get revenge for the 88-38 defeat which State served last year in a drizzling rain at Raleigh.

Davidson: 
AB R H PO A E 
Simpson, 2b -------- 4 0 0 2 2 0 
Covington, 3b ------ 4 0 0 1 1 1 
Smith, ss ----------- 4 0 2 0 0 0 
Wills, rf ------------ 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Boushee, lf --------- 2 0 0 0 0 0 
Marrow, cf --------- 2 0 1 0 0 0 
Johnson, c ---------- 3 0 1 10 1 0 
Sappenfield, ss ----- 2 0 0 3 3 0 
Laird, p ------------- 0 0 0 1 2 0 
Potts, p ------------- 0 0 0 2 0 0 
x Hastie ------------- 0 0 0 0 0 0 
31 0 6 27 16 5 
x Batted for Laird in eighth.

Lenoir: 
AB R H PO A E 
Whisonhunt, 2b ----- 2 1 2 2 0 0 
Boggs, ss ----------- 4 1 1 5 0 0 
Deaton, 3b ---------- 4 0 3 1 0 0 
Gresham, c --------- 2 1 1 1 0 0 
Gilbert, lf ----------- 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Moose, cf ----------- 2 0 0 0 0 0 
36 4 10 27 11 0

(Continued on page 3)

PLANNING A TRIP?
“U-DRIVEM”
THE CHEAPEST AND BEST WAY
Go when you please
Return when you please
Rates: 12 1-2 Cents Per Mile
S HUNTER & DeARMON
No. 8 Louisiana Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WILDCAT NINE PLAYS THREE HOME GAMES DURING WEEK

The Wildcat nine will be kept busy during the coming week, four games being scheduled. Three of the games will be played on Richardson Field, and the last one on Wake Forest territory. In this time, the Wake Forest aggregation will be met twice. Guilford and State are the other teams which will be met. The Guilford game last year was rained out, but the Techmen were met on Sprunt field in a brilliant pitchers’ battle. State won from the Wildcats, 1-0, an error permitting the lone tally. The schedule of games for the coming week is:
April 11—Wake Forest at Davidson.
April 12—Guilford at Davidson.
April 14—State at Davidson.
April 17—Wake Forest at W. F.

Some men are born insane. Some men achieve insanity. Others room with an amateur saxophone player.—Ex.

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
ELKINS & PRICE
Davidsonian Office
Agents for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Quality Printers

SPORTING GOODS
Our Representative on the Campus
The Commissary
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 E. Trade St.
Charlotte, N. C.

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building