THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 11, 1924

Town News

Misses Mary and Lizzie Young are expected to return home from Concord in a few days. Miss Naomi McConnell will be at home for the Christmas holidays. Mrs. A. L. Hobbs visited her sister in Charlotte for several days last week. Mrs. Wood, of Charlottesville, Va., is visiting her son and daughter, Prof. and Mrs. W. W. Wood. Lawton Williams, ex-’27, now at Alabama Polytechnic Institute at Auburn, was the guest of his mother during Thanksgiving week. Miss Grace James spent a few days last week in Chester, S. C. Dr. Currell, of the University of South Carolina, was the guest of Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding while in Davidson. Mrs. T. W. Lingle attended a meeting of the State Welfare Board, of which she is a member, in Raleigh, last week. From Raleigh she went to visit Dr. and Mrs. W. L. Lingle, in Richmond.

DAVIDSON WILL BENEFIT FROM GENEROSITY OF MR. DUKE

(Continued from page 1)

to the principal of the original amount, the object being to increase the principal each year until the amount had reached $80,000,000. With the income at $2,000,000 and with 20 per cent of this amount being added to the principal each year it would leave $1,600,000 to be distributed to the beneficiaries named in the official document. Davidson was designated to receive five per cent of this amount, which would equal $80,000. No definite amount can be fixed, but it is seen that Davidson will receive an amount in the neighborhood of $80,000. As time goes on and as the principal increases, the income will increase and the beneficiaries will benefit still more. There may be years when the income will be small, and years when the company is prosperous. The amounts received by the colleges and charitable institutions will accordingly fluctuate. The trust begins to operate in 1926. Mr. Duke stated to Dr. Martin that the income of next year has already been set aside and will be used in building operations. Additional facilities will increase the worth of the stock proportionately. When Dr. Martin was asked if there were any limitations on the use of the money he stated that there were none, and referred to the official statement, the extract concerning Davidson read, “Five per cent will be given to Davidson College, a Presbyterian institution located at Davidson, N. C., for all purposes of that college.” An interpretation of this leaves the impression that the trustees of Davidson can use the money in their own discretion. Mr. F. L. Jackson, treasurer of the college, stated by way of comparison that the income from the endowment of the college was $37,500, and while the gift of Mr. Duke is not in the nature of an endowment it means that Davidson will have three times the sum that it has had in the past for operating expenses, the additional sum is to be used for such purposes. Dr. Martin stated that Mr. Duke seemed very happy over his gift to the colleges, hospitals, churches and charitable work in the Carolinas, and that when official announcement was made of his donation it was the culmination of a dream of 18 years. Mr. Duke has been working since he was 18 years of age and has amassed a tremendous fortune. It can be termed a climax to his years of labor, and within a few years he will see the results of his handiwork in the lives of the young men who will come forth from the colleges that are beneficiaries, in the happy faces of those who come from a bed on which they once suffered, by the knowledge that many of the fatherless and motherless children of the Carolinas have a home, by the knowledge that many lives have been brightened through the medium of the church, and the multitude of other good that will come from his generous gift.

HEADQUARTERS!! FOR FINE AND MEDIUM FURNITURE

We give you good quality at Reasonable Prices

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO. PHONE 157 STATESVILLE, N. C.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From? The Shelby Ice Cream Co. Shelby, N. C.

(Continued from page 1)

A brief sketch of the new letter men follows:

James F. Pinkney, of Beckley, W. Va., is the first of West Virginia’s sons to win a varsity berth in football at Davidson in many years. He was a member of the Freshman football squad during his first year in college, and was awarded his D. C. at the end of his Freshman season. Reporting for early practice along with numerous other candidates, who possibly seemed more likely material, Pinkney stuck it out and by his grim determination, pluck, and dauntless spirit landed a place on the left flank of the line, where he played for 23 quarters. Pinkney is secretary and treasurer of the student body, and a member of the student council.

Ernest F. Bohannon, of Davidson, came to college with a fair bid for football honors and an ambition to make his letter on the varsity football squad. By his excellent work on end during the past season both aims have been realized. Bohannon was also a member of Coach Rawson's famous Wildkitten eleven of '23, and was a winner of a D. C. during his Freshman year. Bohannon, with the exception of the short time that he was confined to the sidelines because of injuries, was a big factor in the many victories won by Davidson during the past season.

Joe McConnell, of Davidson, was the pivot man this year for the best team Davidson has had in a long time, and it was due to his excellent passes on the offense and his unrelenting drive on the defense that so much success came to the Wildcats this season. Like Pinkney and Bohannon, McConnell won his Freshman letter last year; and when the time came for trials for positions on the varsity squad, McConnell was there and ready. He has starred in the line this year both by his own faultless playing and the fine influence exerted byhim over his fellow teammates. Julius W. Anderson, of Melecacii, was a member of the Freshman team of '22 and a candidate for varsity honors last season. This year he has appeared in a number of games and has been a valuable player in the line. Anderson has already won a “D” in track, being a pole-vaulter, javelin, and hurdle star. Anderson will return next year and will mean a lot in building up the varsity team.

Nick Sappenfield, of Concord, N. C., is probably the most brilliant player among the new letter men. He was mentioned by practically all newspapers over the state for the position of second all-state quarterback, and his work as field-general of the Wildcat eleven during the past season was practically perfect. Having a quick mind and a keen football intuition, Sappenfield has been able to send his teammates crashing through the weak places which he always manages to detect in his opponents’ line. His fine work at quarter has been one of the big factors in the victories by Davidson over the much heavier and more experienced teams with which the Wildcats coped during the past season. Sappenfield is one of the most popular students on the campus, being vice-president of the student body and bidding fair to win other honors and offices before his college career is over. He will return for another season at quarter next fall, and his return will add much to the hopes and ambitions of Davidson followers.

Wade H. Leggette, of Red Springs, N. C., has won an important place on the eleven during the last season and was depended on by the coaches both for deadly defensive tackling in the secondary defense and for fine runs and long punts on the offensive. Leggette came to the varsity from the Freshman team of which he was a member during his first year in college. Leggette is already one of the big men on the varsity, but with more coaching and experience, he is certain to make Davidson as valuable a backfield man as she has had in many years.

W. A. McAulay, Mt. Gilead, another of the Old North State's contributions to the Wildcat team, made his letter this year by a fine combination of sheer grit and ability. His stocky build and his fighting spirit greatly strengthened the line when it seemed that heavier teams would break through for long gains. McAulay has made Davidson a fine player, and when he returns next year, as it is hoped he will, the Wildcats’ chances for another successful season will rise considerably.

David T. McComb, of Hickory, N. C., is another of Davidson’s premier red-headed battlers. For two years McComb fought for a berth on the varsity squad, and his ambitions were not to be denied. He made the team this year, and his fine work in the backfield during the past season made him one of the mainstays on the team. McComb won his letter two years ago in track, and will probably be back in the cinder-path squad again this year.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

This issue of The Davidsonian was called the “Million Dollar Campaign” issue. All through the paper were articles urging the readers to make pledges. The campaign was to raise money for improving Presbyterian schools in North Carolina. One whole page was devoted to pictures of other schools in North Carolina which were to benefit from the campaign. Half of the amount asked for was to be used at Davidson, for such purposes as the installation of the central heating plant, the laundry, and increasing the teaching staff.

It was announced that Mr. Fred Hengeveld, of the class of 1918, would arrive in the spring to succeed Mr. L. B. Crayton as coach. While a student here, Mr. Hengeveld was center on the basketball team and pitcher on the baseball team. After leaving here, he pitched for Little Rock, in the Southern League. Agitation was started for a swimming pool. The students did not like the idea of having to go seven miles to the river for a swim. The five delegates to the Student Volunteer Convention, held in Des Moines, Iowa, reported a fine trip. Besides the five students, there were 16 Davidson alumni present. A reunion luncheon of all Davidson men was held. The Davidson alumni of Gaston County held a meeting in Gastonia and organized for the purpose of promoting college athletics, especially to bring college games to Gastonia.

American Glee Club to Appear Here on Tuesday

Third of Lyceum Numbers to be Presented in Shearer Hall

The local Piedmont Lyceum Committee announces that the American Glee Club, a singing quartet, will appear at Shearer Hall on December 16th, as one of the DeLuxe Lyceum numbers. The organization has had five years’ experience as a quartet. Their work is on a high plane of artistic endeavor; as a singing organization, it has few equals. The program of the Glee Club will be interspersed with musical selections, including saxophones and xylophones. Snappy readings and pianologues will be introduced and the program will be carried along without breaks from the beginning to the end. The quartet is highly recommended by many who have heard it. From the Hamilton (Kansas) Lyceum Committee the following is quoted: “The American Glee Club pleased our people very much. The bass and baritone were especially commended on their individual work. I think I am safe in saying it was the strongest male quartet that has ever appeared in this town.” This number, one of the Piedmont DeLuxe attractions, includes four young men who are splendid musicians and entertainers.

The tackles, with Laird and Anderson back, along with Richie and Red Grey, should not be so weak as they started off this year. Line-coach Tilson was well-pleased with the game that Red Anderson put up against the Blue Devils.

Need Money?

We have a plan whereby college men can realize an income while going to school and at the same time secure professional training which may be used later in establishing a professionally-owned and profitable business. A University of North Carolina man qualified for our $100,000 club last year. You, too, can make money as our representative while in college.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

CENTRAL Dyeing and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning
Largest and Oldest
8 E. Trade St.
Shoe Shine In Connection
HAT SHOP
Pressing Best
CHARLOTTE

“BOYS.” When in Statesville why not make headquarters

WALTER CULBRETH CO.
VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

That's why you should patronize the Commercial Barber Shop
NEXT DOOR TO POSTAL TELEGRAPH
STATESVILLE, N. C.