THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 27, 1924

GET FIRST WIN OVER TRINITY TO CLOSE GREAT SEASON WITH VICTORY

Central Cafeteria
‘On the Square’
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere
as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an
amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Davidson Smashes Into ‘Blue Devils’ in Durham
Coach Younger Sends Wildcats Against Another Heavy Foe in Final Contest

The Thanksgiving game is at hand, and many of the Davidson men will participate in their last football game for
the season. Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson have worked them hard, and have them in fine physical condition for
the game. Trinity also has been working hard, and Coach Howard Jones has been steadily building up a good team.
He had but a few letter men around which to build a team, but with raw material he has molded
a heavy, fast-moving team. Trinity’s pair of ends will weigh 160 pounds each, while the line from tackle to tackle
will weigh 180 pounds. The backfield will average 160 pounds, the heaviest man being Caldwell, who weighs 175 pounds. The
team is much faster than State’s, but not quite as fast as Carolina's. They are a hard-working bunch, always fighting
for every inch of ground. In the backfield, Lagerstadt and Johnson are the best, while Griggs and Kimball look good
in the line. It was Lagerstadt who scored the two touchdowns against Davidson in Greensboro two years ago, the Methodists
winning the game, 12 to 0. Lagerstadt is a triple-threat, doing most of the kicking and passing of the team.
Johnson is known for his knife-like thrusts through the line. Griggs and Kimball are especially good on the defensive.

The following is the probable line-up of the two teams:

Trinity. Position. Davidson.
Kimball Left end Davis (C)
Thompson Left tackle Baker
Gill Left guard Vance
Pickens Center McConnell
Aldridge Right guard Raper
Griggs Right tackle Teague
Simpson Right end Pinkney
Lagerstadt (C) Quarterback Sappenfield
Caldwell Right half Finley
Hunt or Hendrix Left half Black
Johnson Fullback

TRACKMEN WORKING HARD FOR STATE MEET NEXT WEEK

The state cross-country meet at Wake Forest, December 6th, bids fair to be a good one this year. From all
reports, the colleges in the state are developing good cross-country teams this season. Carolina, State, and Wake Forest have had
meets already this year with each other, but no authentic dope can be given on their respective strength as yet,
except to say that Carolina seems to have a good team. As to the Wildcats’ cross-country prospects, it can be
said that unless the unlooked-for happens, Davidson intends to make someone “hustle for their money” in the state meet. The
team has been working hard for the last two weeks, and in spite of the cold days, followed their regular
schedule. The best time made for the three-mile course last week was 16:54, which members of the team believe can
be cut down considerably before the state meet. Webb, Gudger, and Wright & Ditson Goldsmith Goods Myers Hardware and Sporting
Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street

The Kick-Off
By Don Wharton

This afternoon finds seven men playing for Davidson on Hanes Field, in Durham, who will never again represent this college
on any gridiron. Though greater teams may arise in the football ascendency that Coaches Younger, Tilson, and Rawson seem to
have started here, none will ever carry on its roster men who can more deservedly wear the “Red and Black.”

First in this list comes Captain Davis, one of the premier ends of North Carolina, who after playing that place
on more or less mediocre teams for three years, came back to Davidson this fall to lead the greatest Davidson
team in many seasons through a successful schedule. Few indeed are the men who captain during their college career two
major teams, and fewer indeed are those who lead the basketball and football teams of Davidson College as Nappy has
done so well.

Jim Hendrix, as much if not more than anyone in North Carolina, deserves the title of “the man who came
back.” After two years of brilliant playing, Jim played a rather inconsistent game last fall and many doped his football
career to be finished. Starting in Asheville a series of broken field running that swept the P. C. team off
its balance and brought western North Carolina sport writers to their feet with clamors of “another Glen Killinger,” Hendrix continued
throughout the season to dazzle Davidson's opponents with his speed. His work in the State and Clemson games was especially
noticeable.

Down in the middle of the line, surrounded by great forwards whose size nearly hides Boggs’ smaller figure, “Sook” has
repeatedly brought words of admiration to those who follow the grid game more closely than to watch who is carrying
the ball. If ever one man gave his all to the game, it certainly was Boggs.

Leaving Davidson with these three men are “Popsy” Hunt, Ted Covington, Sam Summers McAulay, and Patterson. Each deserves the praise
and credit which only limited space withholds. Their work has at times been great factors in Davidson's success.

This game brings to a close the most successful season in Davidson's recent history. More successful perhaps it is from
what it offers to bring next year thanwhat it has done this year. More important than the fact that eight
regulars will be back, not to mention several lettermen, is the knowledge that both the Davidson coaches will again direct
the football squad when September rolls around. Few people watching the North Carolina football elevens realize that every team in
the state is coached by men brought from the East or West, save Davidson and Carolina elevens, both of whom
are headed by men who once made history for the “Red and Black” on gridiron and diamond. The game this
afternoon will decide whether Davidson will take its place as the third-best team in North Carolina, with Wake Forest of
course first and Carolina second, or whether the Red and Black team will drop to the fifth position.

Should we win, Davidson will stand above North Carolina State in that we tied State and lost only one game,
winning one, while the Techmen lost two games and tied us, winning from Trinity.

(Continued on page 5)

Williford are the best prospects from the upper classes for the team, while Stigler, O'Neal, Trabue, and Miller seem to
be the best prospects from the Fresh class for the team that will carry “Red and Black” colors December 6th
at Wake Forest. Final time trials to see who will make the trip to Wake Forest will be held sometime
the last of the week.

Yearlings Close Great Season in Final Defeat
Win Six Games Out of Seven Played While Rolling Up Good Scores

Coach Rawson's Yearlings completed their schedule at Greenville Saturday and although they met defeat for the first time this season,
they have nothing to be sorry for. They have done some great playing and the material which they have is
very promising and shows that when the present Wildcats have given all they have to Davidson, these Kittens will be
full-grown and ready to continue the fight.

The opening game of the season saw the Kittens triumph over the Monroe high school team at Monroe, the score
being 19-0. Dick Grey, a Davidson high school product, was seen in the limelight, scoring 13 points. The entire team
showed up well. The next victim was Wingate Junior College, on Richardson Field. The first quarter looked like good football
on the part of Wingate, but the Kittens got mad and when the echoes of their snarls had died away,
the score was found to be 38-0. Dick Grey and Joe Overton looked good in this fracas. The line proved
to be invincible in this game.

The Yearlings had a stiff fight in the P.C. Fresh game. They were played off their feet in the first
part of the game. They held the South Carolinians on the one-foot line for downs and then the Sandlappers advanced
again and kicked a second field goal before the young Cats could get their bearings. They then held them and
scored two touchdowns in the remainder of the game while P.C. was fighting hard but could not penetrate the Davidson
line again. The final score of the game was 14-6.

The Wildkittens showed up well in the Trinity game on Richardson Field, scoring two touchdowns in the first quarter. The
Trinity boys were not in the game in this period but came back strong in the remainder of the scrap.
They scored a touchdown and held the Kittens and only once did the Davidson team come within striking distance, and
then Dick Grey booted the ball between the uprights from the 38-yard line, bringing the total to 16-7. Grey has
developed a habit of kicking from placement at almost any angle.

Oak Ridge was beaten at Statesville on Armistice Day by a 36-3 count. Harrison started things off right in the
beginning of the game with some pretty runs and then for a touchdown. After they had gotten the habit, nothing
could stop them, and later in the game, the second-string men were sent in, and they held them. Joe Overton
intercepted a pass and went 70 yards for a touchdown, and numerous gains were made by the entire backfield. Sanders
kicked a field goal 40 yards from placement for the only score for the Cadets.

The Wildkittens went to Greenville with Laws, Melton, and Nesbit suffering injuries. Both teams had good records with them, but
Furman had a bit too much weight on the Davidson yearlings. In the first half, the local team seemed to
have lost its fight and could not get organized. When the first half was over, the Kittens found themselves trailing
by a 19-0 score. They put up a better fight in the second half and held the young Hurricane to
one earned touchdown. The South Carolinians had a better team than the Davidson bunch and outplayed them. They had already
won over South Carolina Fresh and Citadel, both being 40-0 scores.

Coach Rawson deserves much praise for the work he has done for the Fresh team and he has had a
very successful season and he has turned out some material that, without a doubt, will be giving their all for
Davidson on the Varsity one of these first years.

TO THE MEN OF DAVIDSON:
This is to notify you that I will carry on the business of the past 10BE JOHNSON, my father. I
will always try to give you the best service in the pressing and cleaning line possible. I will be located
at the same old stand, just below the bank.
ODEL JOHNSON

SORE THROAT
For tonsillitis or hoarseness, gargle with warm salt water. Rub Vicks over throat and cover with a hot flannel cloth.
Swallow slowly small pieces.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

The Old Stand
CIGARETTES
CANDIES
CIGARS
SANDWICHES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High-Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE
see C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
