4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 17, 1924

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........... Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN.................. Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH............................ Managing Editor
W. MILTON............................ Assistant Managing Editor
C. D. RICHMOND.................. Assistant Managing Editor
J. M. SELSER.......................... Athletic Editor
A. F. RATCHFORD.................. Peanut Parcher Editor
J. A. LAKE.............................. Associate Editor
J. B. ASKEW.......................... Associate Editor
H. V. HILL.............................. Associate Editor
G. W. McMILLAN.................... Alumni Editor
R. H. McILWAINE.................. Circulation Manager
D. G. WILSON......................... Subscription Manager
W. H. LYNCH.......................... Typist

REPORTERS’ CLUB
L. B. GIBBS, Pres.
D. G. WILSON, V.-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
R. H. McILWAINE
G. McMILLAN
J. E. MOORE
J. M. APPLEBY
J. P. O'CONNOR
J. M. AUSTIN
R. B. PARKER
W. H. BRANCH
B. Y. PITTS
W. T. COVINGTON
B. U. RATCHFORD
J. M. GARRISON
E. K. REGEN
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
J. B. THOMPSON
P. F. JONES
L. D. WHARTON
W. H. LYNCH
W. S. WOODS

Junior Week, the most joyful period of the Spring term, is with us once more.
The boarding houses have been asked not to serve onions during the next four or five days.
Classes expired yesterday and will stay in that condition till Tuesday. No funeral dirges will be sung. Requiescat in pace.
If Jupiter Pluvius will be kind this week, Cupid’s votaries will burn incense at his shrine.
The only thing more enveloping than Davidson hospitality is Davidson mud. April showers have been so frequent that the ground needs a good rest. None of the Saturday night ceremonial is needed.
We welcome each and every one of our fair visitors. To them the whole campus is turned over, to do with as they see fit. They are the masters, and we the entertainers at the celebration, or is it vice-versa?

STUDENT HONOR

The honor system has grown to be one of the most cherished institutions at Davidson. The honor of each man who enters Davidson College is the personal concern of every student, for one man who fails to live up to the standards of honor set by the members of the student body, and still remains as a student, hurts the standard of the institution immeasurably. Cheating and stealing are the two evils which are recognized everywhere, and which are handled primarily by the student government.

At the recent meeting of the Southern Federation of College Students held at Chapel Hill, student government, which is founded on the honor system and is the means of keeping student honor on the highest level, was the chief topic under discussion. Twenty southern colleges and universities were represented at the convention. Some of these schools do not have the honor system, others have student government only in name, but several, notably Washington and Lee, North Carolina, N. C. State and Davidson, have efficiently organized governing bodies which the students of each recognize as the body which upholds the fixed standard of honor and which they support in its decisions.

A high tribute to the honor system in Southern schools as embodied in Carolina honor was paid by a Carolina student from Boston. He said that in many Northern schools, where he had seen conditions, the honor system was merely a name under which students might cheat with less danger of detection. On the first review which he attended at Carolina the professor wrote the questions on the board and left the room. His first thought was that now that the instructor had gone, he could cheat and get the correct answers. He reached for his book, and then noticed that no one else in the room was making any attempt to cheat. The fact struck him, and from that time on he has been an enthusiastic supporter of the system. Such an incident shows the worth of an honor system which is an honor system in fact as well as in name.

In certain schools a differentiation is made between certain phases of the student government and the honor system. At Washington and Lee, a man is honor bound to report all cases of cheating and stealing which come under his notice. Drinking and gambling are handled by the student government but they are not a part of the honor system. On the other hand, the law in regard to cheating is stricter than at other colleges. If it can be proven that a student sat next to a man cheating on examinations, knew that he was cheating, and failed to report him for it, he is shipped for violating the clause which states that every student is honor bound to report all cases of cheating and stealing. The same stigma attaches to him as to the man who cheated. Both have broken the honor code.

The reporting of offenses is a necessary part of both student government and the honor system. Student government is essentially a rule of the students for the betterment of the students themselves and for upholding the name of the institution. The burden of the responsibility is placed upon every man in college. The law at Washington and Lee lays emphasis on this essential point of the system, and places the ignorance of the wrong to the students on the same level as the wrong done to the students by the cheaters. In the end the result of the two offenses is the same, for both he who cheats and he who allows another to cheat lets a man who has broken his word and robbed the student body of a portion of its honor remain as a student in good standing, thereby lowering the value of student honor at the institution.

Certain colleges during the past year have either abolished or considered abolishing the honor system and student government, because of the failure of the students to support the officers by reporting violations of the code. The action of these few colleges has brought a great deal of criticism on college students in general. Because in some schools the students have not been trained to recognize the supreme value of honor, the whole college system is attacked by men who are not intimately acquainted with college conditions all over the country. Training is an essential part of the system. In the incident of the student mentioned above, his training and experience led him to think that everyone else cheated, and that cheating was the natural thing to do. The training, however, of the students in the same room led them to believe that cheating was a dishonorable thing, and the evidence of their sincerity led the first student to change his mind, and realize the true proportions of cheating. Training by example is one of the most effective means of molding character.

Honor, though intangible, is one of the most vital things in life. Here at Davidson we class honor as the one requisite of a Davidson man. No form of dishonesty is tolerated. A man may cheat and get by with it; a man may see another cheating and fail to report him; a man may go through his whole course, cheating when necessary, and graduate;—no system is perfect—but on the whole few students cheat; few students fail to report cheating; and we regard the honor system as the heart of Davidson.

The term of this year’s student council has almost expired. During the past year the members of the council have worked to raise student honor to a still higher standard. They have received the support of the students in their work—otherwise, it would have been a failure. Before the end of the month the new student council will be installed. They are not a police force—but are the men to whom the students have delegated their authority. Into their hands falls the nominal keeping of Davidson honor, and we should give them the undivided support which was accorded to the outgoing council.

But in our hands, the hands of the students, remains the keeping of Davidson honor. We are the ones who will say whether the honor system will rise or fall. The way in which we live up to our oath to report violations will determine the success or failure of the officers whom we have appointed. We have the future of Davidson in our hands.

as I see it.

Open Forum

Chaff

THE DAVIDSON SPIRIT

We've all heard the old saying that “An empty wagon makes the most noise.” When we walk about over the campus and hear on every side“That’s the stuff, show your old Davidson Spirit.” What in the world are we talking about? We are trying to kid ourselves that we have something that we haven't got. I can imagine a few years back after an athletic contest a newspaper remark that ran something like this, “The players were about evenly matched and the victory was in doubt throughout the game but that feeling they call the Davidson Spirit instilled in the hearts of every man, upheld the tired and weary players and urged them to victory.” I don’t know whether you have caught what I mean or not for it’s a hard task to define. Though it might be defined as a state of consciousness which is characterized by our affective attitudes, and there is the point which I wish to put before you, e.g., that the Old Davidson Spirit is a feeling and not a lot of talk. According to the law of dynamogenesis, every conscious state tends to press itself in some form of motor activity. If that is so, have we the Davidson Spirit? We flounder around here and talk, talk, talk about it and never do anything, so we must lack that particular conscious state which involves action. If we have any semblance of that Spirit, it must be cached in a thick shell way down in our make-up which we never let out for fear it will inveigle us into doing something instead of talking so infernally much. When the cheerleader calls for a cheer, we sit up there and do some mechanical motion with our tongues and call it yelling, without life or pep. We do not put our feelings into it; everyone can just feel an air of the mechanical that we are yelling just because someone else is or because we think someone will say something about it if we don’t. That kind of backing is not what we want. We want a Davidson Spirit that you can sense with your mind and not something you are always hearing. I wish I could tell it to you just as I feel it but it is an impossibility,—I don’t mean the Spirit for I lack it as much as anyone, but this feeling of shallowness in that spirit. It has become almost meaningless to most of us. At Carolina a few years ago one of the students realized the same situation that I feel, that the spirit is dead and we are trying to kid ourselves into believing we have it when in reality it is only some phantom rooted in our minds by so much talk. He decided to try and wake it up some way. One night he dug a grave cut in front of one of the central walks where everyone would see it. He placed a headstone at the grave and this inscription was written on it, “Here lies the Carolina Spirit.” After the men had seen it there was a period of depression and deep thought about what to do about it, no one said much but there was that feeling that there was a change to be made and it expressed itself in action. So we need something to wake us from our peaceful slumbers. I do not propose to dig a grave to wake us up but to tell you the situation. So let’s remember that “An empty wagon makes the most noise” and quit so much meaningless talk and go to feeling our Davidson Spirit. E. BONO PUBLICO.

Davidsonian Trophy Cup

In the final election to determine the winner of the Norris Trophy cup, held last Tuesday, G. F. (Flake) Laird was the winner. The student body recently expressed their opinion as to the best athletes in school, and the three highest were Nappy Davis, Sook Boggs, and Laird. Tuesday the final voice was expressed in electing Laird as the best of these three. Laird is only a Sophomore, and to have won this cup so early in his college life indicates his ability as an athlete. Flake came to Davidson with an enviable record behind him, and during the football season he was used at different times, but not enough to make his letter. His name is well known as the one who intercepted a forward pass and ran forty yards for a touchdown in the V. P. I. game here, and later kicked the goal that tied the game. On the hardwood court, he easily cinched a position, and recognition was shown in the awarding of a letter. Flake was also on the pitching staff of the Freshman team last year. His work this year in the sports has been noteworthy. On the gridiron, he played a line position and effectively held down his end. This year he made his letter. He continued his work of the previous year on the basketball floor and added a star to his previous honor. Flake was consistent in his playing and at one time held the honor of high point man. Coach Monk has so far found him a valuable man on the pitching staff, and during the times that he has pitched he has shown up well. His work against Trinity is commendable, for he held this strong nine to five hits in the six innings that he pitched. It is conceded that he will win his letter in this sport this year. Davis and Boggs are both good athletes. Davis was Captain of this year’s quint, and is Captain-Elect of next year’s eleven. Boggs is Captain-Elect of the quint for next year.

BLANK VERSE

With sincere apologies to the blankety-blank-blank idiot who writes it.

Spring with emerald tresses flitters in,
On silver wings and golden hair she flies,
Soft blow the blizzard.
Red and crimson
Carmine and maroon,
While the phantasmagoric creepy, crawlings crave the daylight air.
This is Spring
Joyous Spring.
Amethyst lambs
And heliotrope blackbirds chirp
From the moaning sycamore or less.
Bright glows the cloudy sky
When thou art nigh.
Oh if I wert with purple wings,
My thoughts would rise on
Clandestine pinions and soar
To depths and heights un-
Known.
Zoom! Zoom!
The fireflies
Roar and rumble like the wheels
Of carts.
The canine’s clarion
Clatter clutters the clear air
With raucous dinny din.
Round and Round goes the wheel
Of life.
Oo La La!

HOW TO WRITE VERSE

First, choose your subject out of any good dictionary or encyclopedia, any subject will do as well as another for you should not write on the subject at the head under any consideration. Next, gather a nice medium-sized collection of ossified adjectives and sublime thoughts that suit your mood and mix thoroughly several unintelligible and nonsensical adjectives or expressions that will serve the purpose of giving an elevating tone to the production. If your pen slips or your finger misses a key on the typewriter let it pass as the reader is not supposed to grasp the complete thought. Ascertain the number of lines that you wish to fill and scatter the words throughout the lines required to fill and add a word or two extra if necessary to preserve the alignment. Utter a poetic rapture or two and the job is completed, although the result is not guaranteed, the country is as yet too civilized. Oo La La!

OWED

The tailor
The drug store
The jeweler
The cafe
Blankety-blank-Blank
----------
?
Oo La La!

A BLANK EXPRESSION

Some folks we know are awful slow to let the news soak in.
They never do a thing just so, but laugh a silly grin.
Whene’er a fulsome joke is told, they cackle right out loud,
at the wrong time, brave and bold, and right before a crowd.
No matter whether cold or hot, these dumbbells all will prance.
They’re always Johnny on the spot to show their ignorance.
They seem to say in every way that they the wise guys are
they take the trouble day by day to fan the movie star.
But all we need to keep them treed, is say, a skirt of grass.
In short we lack some pep and speed.
We need a blockhead class
Oo La La!

Fair One at Speaking—Oh, Mr. Lewis, do you really love me with all your heart?
Goat Lewis—Why, sure little one.
Fair One—Well then, why doesn’t your chest go up and down like the sheiks in the movies?
Oo La La!

ISN’T IT NICE

That mirrors don’t wear with use.
That there are no female sheiks in Davidson.
That box rent due is no kin to mountain dew.
That 99 44-100 per cent of the D. C. student body is thinking of going home.
That exams are so near?
???
Oo La La!

MORE BLANKS

(Following is a blank sent out by a prospective bride-to-be):
Given name and address.
Weight
How much alimony would you consider in case of divorce?
Will you have me?
Oo La La!

I use this line
To fill up space
And ’twill fit
No other place.