THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 25, 1924

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

“Dress Well and Succeed”
THERE’S lots of good sound logic in that slogan. Many a man with plenty of brains has made a failure
simply because he neglected his clothes. Men of prominence and power, if you will note, are those who take pride
in their personal appearance. Let us again emphasize: “Dress Well and Succeed.” We’re giving a lot of thought to young
men’s clothes this fall. There’s a new drape to the coat—more ease and comfort—a new “hang” to the trousers. Right
now we’re showing all the new colors and patterns. You’ll like them.
MELLON’S

The Old Stand
CIGARS
SANDWICHES
CIGARETTES
CANDIES
Appreciative Service
W. G. SHIELDS

Automatic Score Board and New Seats Coming
Seating Capacity of Athletic Field to be Four Thousand—Novel Scoreboard

The game with Wofford on October 11 will find Richardson Field one of the best equipped college fields in the
South. The seating capacity will be increased by the arrival of 3,000 more seats, while interest will be added to
the game by the addition of a scoreboard. The new seats are exact duplicates of those now standing on the
east side of the playing field. They are wooden knock-down bleachers made by the Leavette Iron Works, in Indiana. The
additional 20 sections were shipped from a branch warehouse in Richmond, Va., about a month ago. A tracer was sent
out for them this past week. The new seats will be here within the next week or so.

The scoreboard is to be located at one end of the field and will show accurately the scores, the downs,
yards to go, minutes to play in that quarter, last points scored, and the game for the following week. If
the plans which are now being drawn up are acceptable, work will start within the next few days. The scoreboard
is to be entirely original and there will not be one exactly like it in the whole country.

CHRISTENING OF RICHARDSON FIELD
(Continued from page 1)

Third Quarter
Following exchange of punts, Sappenfield gets away for spectacular 72-yard run for touchdown, behind quickly forming interference. Davidson hall almost
entire period but no consistent gaining, though several chances to score. Quarter ends with Elon holding ball on own 24-yard
line.

Fourth Quarter
Elon gets away with reverse play for 18 yards followed by Davidson getting off-side. Good punt allowed by Sappenfield to
roll one yard over for touchback. Davidson takes ball on own 20-yard line; without losing possession of ball (despite two
penalties) Black, Sappenfield, and Sapp (principally) drive through and around Elon to their 24th marker. Davidson forwards’ line interference good.
Good headwork by Captain Nappy stops punt on Elon’s one-foot line. Elon back smothered on attempt to punt out. Anderson
gets ball in Elon end zone; official rules safety as whistle blown when in possession of Elon back. Next Elon
punt blocked by Christian. Team goes good again. Davidson's ball on Elon's 18-yard line, second down and 7 to go.
Game ends.

The line-up and summary follow:
Elon. Position. Davidson.
Avige (G) Left end Cardwell
Raker Left tackle McCauley
McCauley Left guard Braxton
Donnell Center Dorr
Whitesell (C) Right guard Lineal
Beougher Right tackle Bohanon
Harrell Right end Sappenfield
Wells Quarterback Byrd
Black Right half Alexander
Sapp Left Half

Substitutes—Davidson: Pinkney, O'Neal, Patterson, Anderson, Sims, Mitchell, Green, Christian, Hendrix, Covington, Leggette. For Elon: Swanson, Hainer, Smith, Farmer, Brinkley, Williams.

Score by quarters:
Elon 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 6 0 6 2—14

Officials—Referee, Sampson (St. Albans); headlinesman, Major (Clemson); umpire, Hartsell (N. C. State); linesmen, Shepherd (Davidson), Alexander (Elon).

In spite of the rain there was a fair crowd in attendance at Richardson Field.

The Kick-Off
By Don Wharton

Richardson Field was christened with a 14-0 victory, though the fact that it was a christening game was relatively unknown—the
Citadel game last year was played on the practice field. Despite the mud and mire, the game was clean throughout—clean
playing and clean sportsmanship on the part of both teams and spectators.

"That's the best game that I've ever seen Nappy play," was what one of the coaches said Saturday evening about
Captain Davis. In our estimation, it was the best game that several other Wildcats have put up. And the team
as a whole looked like a different machine from last year’s. Coaches Monk and Tilson have surely drilled hard tackling,
constant digging, and line interference into the Red and Black squad. And after all has been said about the spectacular
runs and the driving power of this and that Davidson back, don’t forget that the line was right there every
moment of the game. And don't forget that it was line interference that made those plays go and coming out
of the line was surely hard work in that sticky mud.

The fourth quarter was when most of Davidson's real power was shown. Starting from our 20-yard line with Sapp, Black,
and Sappenfield carrying the ball, the backfield carried the ball right down the field through holes made by the Davidson
line without losing possession of the ball for a total of 74 yards. Then came a good punt, better headwork
by Captain Nappy in stopping it on the one-foot line, and a safety on Elon’s attempt to punt out. With
the ball in the possession of Red Anderson, Davidson tackle, behind Elon’s goal line, there were quite a number who
couldn't understand the safety decision. It would have been aTouchdown, had not Referee Sampson ruled that when he blew his
whistle the ball was in the possession of the Elon back, and thereby a safety. Coach Monk showed plainly that
he was building a winning team, not running up scores, when he repeatedly sent in substitute after substitute in place
of men who were going good. Twenty-four men played on the Red and Black team, of whom 10 were letter
men. It was the first varsity game for nine of these, but more than one of that nine will be
wearing a red “D" before the Christmas holidays. The Wofford Terriers, who will be the meat for the Wildcats here
on October 11, opened the season Saturday for the South Carolina teams when in a drizzling rain, which later changed
into almost a storm, they were defeated by the V. M. I. Cadets 33-0. Sappenfield’s great run of 72 yards
after receiving the Elon punt brought many remembrances of Flake Laird’s run to fame year before last against the powerful
V. P. I. team. That was the time, when doped to lose by several touchdowns, the Wildcats upheld the record
of not losing on Sprunt Field since 1913 by tying the Gobblers 7-7. This year the Red and Black squad
will have several hard games on Richardson Field, and to uphold this record the team will have to go some,
especially against Carolina. All kinds of support and encouragement must come from the Davidson student body to win this game
from the Tar Heels. This seems to be getting a little ahead of time, for the P. C. is next,
and we're playing one game at a time this year. Not much can be discussed about the Bluestockings. Charlotte sport
writers said that the game was the best they saw last autumn. We want another like it at Asheville, with
something more added to the Davidson column.

Bluestockings To Fight Wildcats In Mountains

Coaches Working Men for the Game at Asheville

When the Wildcats trot out on McCormick Field in Asheville next Saturday afternoon they will be going up against a
foe of unknown ability but with plenty of fight. Presbyterian College has lost a number of her stars of last
year’s team, but Coach Johnson has the power to put such fight into his candidates, that their positions will be
ably filled. Scant news has come from Clinton, and since the Bluestockings will open their season with the game Saturday,
very little concrete dope can be had. Needless to say Coach Younger will put as good a team in the
field in Asheville as he has at his command. The Elon game broke the gang in for a new season
of collegiate football and also brought out the weaknesses in the “thin red line.” With Vance, first string guard, back
in the game, and Summers, the 200-pound tackle, ready for action, the line will be in top form. Laird will
still hold down center and Boggs the other guard position. Fighting Brassie Baker will probably remain at tackle, while Captain
Davis and Bohannon or Pinkney will guard the flanks. The backfield will be harder to choose. Indications are that Sappenfield
will start at quarter, with Leggvite and Black at the halfback and Sapp at full. This line-up may be changed
as coach has some subs that are fighting hard for regular berths. There is very little definite news about the
South Carolina bunch. At present it would seem that Wilson, who was the field general for P. C. in that
memorable tie with Clemson in 1919, will run the team from quarter. Hunter and Edmunds are also possibilities. Warner, a
triple-threat man from last year’s eleven, at right halfback, and Robinson at full, seem to be fairly safe of their
berths. Copeland is the favorite for the other backfield position, with Jones, Holland, and Walker also in the running. Out
of six candidates for the end places, Walker and Moore seem to have the edge on the others. Captain Bomar
is sure as a tackle, and Griffen, a star on the Fresh team of last year, will be in that
hole on the other side of the line. The guard jobs are being hotly contended for by Workman, Sisler, Smith,
H. C. and J. H. McLarin, all about even. Kirvin, who has been out already this season with a bad
leg, is again back at practice, but Ferguson, a second stringer, may be called in. To date the only other
casualties are Wilson with a torn ligament, and Copeland with a bad sprained ankle. Both are expected to be in
uniform Saturday. This game promises to be a battle royal between two old rivals. It will be no loose early
season encounter as previous scores will show. P. C. has won twice in five contests, once in 1920, the score
being 7-0, and again in 1922 with a score of 8-7. Davidson has won an equal number of times, in
1921, 7-0, and last year, 3-0. The first game, in 1919, resulted in a 0-0 tie-up.

THIS SATURDAY’S GAME
Davidson vs. P. C.
Davidson Opponents
Richmond vs. V. P. I.
Furman vs. Newberry.
Clemson vs. Elon.
Carolina vs. Wake Forest.
Trinity vs. N. C. State.

GOOD BOARD
MAXWELL CHAMBERS HOTEL
$24 Per Month
A trial is all we ask--Try it a week
J. D. LAWS, Student Manager
204 Watts

When you see a fellow who looks exactly right in his clothing do you ever say, “How does he do
it?” Probabilities are, old man, that he wears John Ward Men’s Shoes. They add a lot to a fellow’s appearance.

On Display By
MR. A. M. SHIMMON
At Honor Store
Sept. 27 and 29

Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City

Henderson’s Auto Electric Company
“U-DRIVE’MS”

Keep Your Feet DRY!
E. A. FRY
The Mender of Shoes

For High Class PRINTING of every description
‘Jam-Up’ SERVICE
see C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Some 700 visitors paid admission.
