THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 3, 1924

Hear Biddle Singers, Friday Night

VAUDEVILLE MUSICAL COMEDY PICTURES
ALHAMBRA THEATRE
The Merriest Place in Charlotte

For all insect bites, red bug, chigger, bee, wasp, mosquito, etc., apply wet baking soda or household ammonia, followed by cooling applications of—
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Raleigh Cafe
Always has something good for the Davidson Boys. It is a pleasure to serve those high tone fellows
221 West Trade St.

JOHNSON’S BARBER SHOP
College Barbers—Let Us Prove It

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Fond Mama—"Willie, did you break that aire?”
Little Willie—"Thataire what?”
F. M.—"That heirloom.”

Ray Morris, among several other of Davidson’s famous lounge lizards, has announced his intention of entering suit against Paris and Company, for non-support.

A flea, and a horse and three little mice
Were out in the barnyard shooting dice.
The horse slipped up and fell on the flea;
The flea cried out that’s a horse on me.

“You no Mack?”
“Mack who?”
“Macks no difference.”

Brown McCallum—“Why is a crow?”
Bill McLean—"I'll bite, Why?”
Brown McCallum—“Cause.”

We thank you one and all for your kind and courteous attention, and will now render as our closing number, “Six Seaside Sailors,” the sailor-made man’s latest rendition of “The Return of the Swallow.”

Little Boy (looking at Dick McMillan)—“Look, mama, the circus has come to town; there’s one of the clowns.”
Mother—"Hush, darling. That’s not a clown, That’s just a college boy.”

When Imogen finally came in, at about two A. M., mother rapped her on her hand and sent her to bed, but when father found it out the next morning he beat her elsewhere.

D. A. S.—"Thought she was going to dance off the seven veils, and she only had three.”
S. A. D—"Well, that’s alright. She couldn’t do any better, the others were in wash.”

Otis Brenner is so dumb he thinks traffic jam would be good with bread and butter.

Death on Assignments
Chemistry Prof.—"Gentlemen, for the next lesson I want you all to take arsenic.”

“I’m going to have my girl up for speaking.”
“Is it a very serious offense?”

“It’s a great life if you don’t waken,” said the rousing student, and he turned back over and went to sleep.

Rippling Rhymes
A—is for Arbuthnot, big as a barrel.
B—is for Burke, adorable Harold.
C—is for Curtis, a dazzling young dancer.
D—is for Davis, the maiden’s prayer answer.
E—is for Earnhardt, who’s death on golfs.
F—is for Flake, the sheik of the Sophs.
G—is for Gallaway, a budding young poet.
H—is for Hendrix, good looking but don’t know it.
I—is for Issy, the Israelite.
J—is for John Laws, he’s too fat to fight.
K—is for Keels, his girl is named Toots.
L—is for Littlejohn, who the prof never shoots.
M—is for McPherson, who’s red on the head.
N—is for Nobody, but you call him Ted.
O—is for Otis Flatnose Brenner.
P—is for Potts, at the game of growing he’s just a beginner.
Q—is for question; I’ve solved it I think,
In making R for Ramseur—the missing link.
S—is for Streibich, a wooden leg vaulter.
T—is for Trawick, a mule without a halter.
U—is for Union, a kind of a suit.
V—is for Vance, a crazy galoot.
W—is for Williams, stays “tight” as a glove.
X—is for X-ceptionally short H. A. Love.
Y—is for Young, a regular Clown Prince.
Z—is for Zimmerman, good-looking but no sense.

Expensive Speaking
A. Y. Bowie (Sunday afternoon)—“Is Dr. Vander Meulen going to speak tonight and Buck, too?”

TENNIS MATCHES HAMPERED BY INCLEMENT WEATHER
The tennis tournament is now in full swing. The courts are being put in shape and if good weather continues play will have been completed within the next week or so. From the lead men of each quarter of the tournament will be drawn the members of the scrub squad. The Freshman team will also be determined by the separate tournament held for first year men.

Last week found the wielders of the gut-string paddle held in check by old Jupe Pluvius. However, in spite of the adverse conditions, the following matches were run off:
Wood Brown won from Ted Jones.
F. H. Lindley won from R. McLeod.
Bill Murray won from G. D. Rogers.
Currie won from Soc Gibbs.
W. B. Mattison won from Bowie.
Buster Lawson won from Morrow.
W. E. Milton won from A. B.Claytor. Thomas won from Ed Brown. The first quarter of the sixty-odd men entered gives an even chance to each man in the group; Vic Brown and Wood Brown, though, will more than likely fight it out in the fourth round. Bill Murray is the class of his section, but the lanky racqueter will find his drive to the championship obstructed by several hazards. Bill, who now holds the alternate place on the Varsity, should not fail to come through to the finals.

FIVE DAVIDSON MEN ATTEND SOCIAL WORKERS’ CONFERENCE
J. P. Williams, R. R. Jones, W. T. Jones, E. M. Regen, and L. D. Elkins were delegates last week to the North Carolina Convention of Social Workers, held at the New Charlotte Hotel, Charlotte, N. C. The convention was in session during the first four days of the week, the Davidson delegates attending only on Tuesday and Wednesday. Prominent educators, psychologists, legislators, and social workers from every section of the state were in attendance.

CIGARS

JOHNSON C. SMITH QUINT (Continued from page 1)
Promoters of the Johnson C. Smith concert were able to book the popular “Biddle” songsters. One member of the quintet has just returned from a six weeks’ tour of the East, singing in the interest of his institution. The musicians are in constant demand and their popularity is growing every day. The fact that they are an indication of their talent and ability. The performance Friday night will be held immediately after the Spanish debate in Shearer Hall. Advertisement of the concert in the village and in nearby towns assures a record-breaking audience, and students will do well to be on time for the concert.

ON THE MAGNETISM OF JESUS
Dr. J. M. Vander Meulen, president of Louisville Theological Seminary, and among the most popular of all ministers with Davidson men, was the speaker at the morning church service last Sunday. His powerful sermon, with John 12:32 as a text, never lacked the closest attention. The Magnetism of Jesus was his subject. The speaker dramatically showed the magnetic power of the Saviour and his universal appeal to which not even his enemies are immune. Renan and Strauss, great atheists of the 19th century, are forced to render unwilling homage to His power. “Jesus draws by his flawless personality. Strike Jesus from Christianity and you have no religion. God Himself is the greatest of personalities. Without personality, He would not be God. Jesus is the one founder of a great religion whose appeal is without limitation. With equal facility, He satisfies the spiritual desires of the learned, while He never fails the call of the more benighted. Wealth and poverty acclaim Him a common Lord. Jesus is the one incomparable Founder. The secret of the power of Jesus is that He stands in the gaps which otherwise ruin our souls. His forgiving love is the keystone of Jesus’ personality—that love whose vastness is beyond comprehension.”

REPORT OF SUNDAY SCHOOL TEAMS SHOW GOOD RESULTS
For Sunday, March 30th, the reports of the “Y” Sunday Schools were as follows:
Place Attendance
Hodson 40
Cornelius 65
Convict Camp 50
Mill Chapel 80
Total 235

At Shearer, E. P. O'Connor talked after Sunday School. Ray and Gibbs remained for the Christian Endeavor Service at night. Plans were made to send a delegate to the C. E. Convention. At the convict camp, Doctor Arbuckle talked to the men. From time to time, many of these men have become professing Christians, which is an indication that much good is being accomplished among them. The men teaching at the rural Sunday Schools on Sunday were: J. C. McJunkin, W. A. Christian, L. B. Gibbs, W. E. Miller, E. P. O'Connor, E. C. Clark, A. C. Ray, Hugh Wells, A. N. Moffett, Harry Yeargen, Wade Allison, and M. G. Lyerly.

WRIGLEY'S after every meal
Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that overeaten feeling and acid mouth. Its lasting flavor satisfies the craving for sweets. Wrigley’s is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides. Sealed in its Purity Package.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

TOBE JOHNSON DOES IT RIGHT
CLEANING AND PRESSING
Old P. O. Building

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

PRESCRIPTIONS COMPOUNDED BY REGISTERED PHARMACISTS
We carry a complete line of Candies, Stationery, and Toilet Articles
WHITE DRUG COMPANY