6 | THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 7, 1924

Smallpox is an ancient disease. We have records of its existence centuries before the Christian era. Rhazes of Baghdad wrote a treatise on the disease in the tenth century. It was introduced to Europe by the Arabs about 710 A.D., and into America in 1633, and is of equal virulence in the tropics as in the polar regions. It is borne by air convection and less than one per cent of the unvaccinated are able to resist infection. The mortality among the unvaccinated is about 45 per cent, whereas the successfully vaccinated practically never succumb to the infection.

The disease appears about 12 days after exposure, ushered in by a chill and high fever, then the pustules begin to appear on the third day and increase in size and number until the eighth day when the entire body is a mass of pustules and crusts, which condition lasts for about two weeks when the scaling takes place, accompanied by pitting or pock marks. Successful vaccination is an absolute preventative to smallpox. In time of epidemics or after exposure everyone should be vaccinated.

TOWN NEWS

(Continued from page 5)

Mrs. A. Currie spent Monday in Statesville organizing a Mission Study Class. Mrs. G. S. Brone and Mrs. R. L. Nesbitt, mother and aunt of Mrs. E. J. Erwin, will visit her soon.

The Senior Christian Endeavor Society met last Sunday at 6:45. Several visitors were present and a good number of the regular members. The President, "Dick" Grey, presided. The subject for the afternoon was "Gospel Triumphs in Japan." The program consisted of a delegation from Japan: "The First Christian of Japan; The First Christian Martyr of Japan; A Young Girl Who Gave; An Early History of Japan; a Modern Japanese and a Living Japan."

The Greatest of All COMING! SHOWING AT DAVIDSON MONDAY, FEB. 18

THE MAN STORE

Duke Walthall and recently received by him has solved a dilemma which has been troubling the profound thinkers of Davidson ever since "the Duke's freshman days." The invitation read as follows: "The card and three dollars admits you to the dance to be held Friday, February 8th at the Vance Hotel; Statesville, N. C. Music by the Chicago Serenaders; Chaperoned."

For a long time the thinkers of Davidson have realized that there is another side to Duke which has not been apparent, but until the receipt of this invitation they have been unable to determine what it might be. Now they know that it is his social activities. Here is what Duke has to say on the subject: "Being a good dancer has made me popular and sought after. I am invited everywhere. No more dull evenings—no more bitter disappointments. My whole life is brighter and happier, and I owe it all to Arthur Murray. They used to avoid me when I asked for a dance. Some said they were tired, others had previous engagements. Even the poorest dancers preferred to sit against the wall rather than dance with me."

Attention!

Are you boosting the Davidsonian in a way that will bring results? Its success depends to a large extent upon the patronage of its readers. These advertisers are thoroughly reliable and can be depended on to serve you promptly. Patronize them.But proper co-operation. Other features of the program and personal interest were attractive and instructive.

"I didn’t wake up until a partner left me standing in the middle of the floor."

The officers for the year are: president, Dick Grey; vice-president, Howard Ar- buckle; secretary, Dorothy Finlayson; treasurer, Ruth Henderson. Committee chairmen have been appointed, and the society is working hard. All of the young people of the town are cordially invited to come and enjoy the meetings. Regular meeting every Sunday night at 6:45—you're always welcome.

Duke bewails this invitation because of his activities in the Ministerial Band. He thinks that it is disgraceful beyond words for the ex-president of that organization to be known to have received such an invitation. He had hoped to finish college without having it known that he is a dancer. Many of the more or less free thinkers on the campus have been urging him to accept the invitation. "Hippo the Houck" has offered to entirely defray "the Duke's" expenses if he will go. However, "the Duke" says that now that it has been noised abroad that he dances, he would go ahead to the dance except for one thing. When he was in Savannah a week or so ago he had a mighty fall. "The Duke" says he promised his lady love when he left her that he would neither go to see nor dance with any save her. So he has decided to stay away and endure the mental anguish of one more dull evening. As to his plans for Friday night, little is known, but it is thought that he intends to go to the Alhambra only.

For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following prizes: 1st prize, $100; 2nd prize, $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes, $10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 each. Any undergraduate or graduate student is eligible. If two or more persons submit identical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amount of the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight March 14, 1924. Winners will be announced as soon thereafter as possible. Submit any number of slogans but write on one side of the paper only, putting name, address, college, and class at the top of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor, The J. B. Williams Co., Glastonbury, Conn.

Williams is as much better to shave with as the Hinge-Cap is better than other caps. The lather is heavier and holds the moisture in against your beard. Quicker softening results. Also, Williams lather lubricates the skin. There is a noticeable absence of irritating razor friction. And Williams takes good care of the skin. Though you shave daily, your face remains smooth and feels comfortable. Williams is a pure, natural-white cream absolutely without coloring matter. Try it!

The most recent addition to the works of the library is the first volume of the New English Oxford Dictionary. The set contains ten volumes and the second and third have been ordered but not received. The others will be purchased as they become available. The idea for this dictionary was formed in 1857 and actual work and search for material began in 1878. Since that time the work has continually gone forward until today the publishers offer what is acknowledged by all to be the outstanding publication of its nature. The work is based on Historical Principles and the aim is to furnish an adequate account of the meaning, origin, and history of English words now in general use or known to have been in use at any time during the last 700 years. The vocabulary is more extensive than any existing dictionary. The words were selected by 1,300 readers from the works of more than 5,000 authors. The first volume contains the meaning and origin of over 22,000 words.