4

‘The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Entered at the Post Office as Second Class Mail Matter

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

Editor-in-Chief
LISTON D. ELKIN

Manager
REGINALD L. PRICE

Editorial Staff
S. McILWAINE..........Managing Editor
RICE___Assistant Managing Editor
GALLOWAY___Assistant Managing Editor
Athletic Editor
Peanut Parcher Editor
Associate Editor
Editor
Subscription
Circulation Manager
Assistant Manager
Typist
Service Manager
Bookkeeper
Advertising Manager
Assistant Manager

WATT McCAIN
THOMPSON

REPORTERS’ CLUB
HURD, A. M., Pres.
MORROW, G. M.
WHARTON, D.B., V.-Pres.
O'CONNOR, E. P.
APPLEBY, J. M.
BOWIE, A. Y.
GARRISON, J. M.
GIBBS, L. R.
HOLLINGSWORTH, A. H.
MARSHALL, C. K.
MOLHOUSE, F.
MILTON, W. F.
MOORE, J. E.
ROGERS, G. D.
THOMPSON, J. B.
SHAW, H. S.
STORY, P. J.
WILLIAMS, J. M.

EDITORIAL

Our idea of a man who is headed for the penitentiary is that one who maliciously covers a “Do Not Spit on the Floor” placard with tobacco juice.

The Charlotte Observer commends the students of Davidson for their support of the Bok Peace Plan. The students of the old college are really a peace-loving collection of humans after all, Seniors and Juniors included, despite the current rumors of revolution and anarchy.

The wrestling team made a creditable showing in its first match of the year, winning every entry. This branch of athletics bids fair to be developed into a popular sport. Coach W. Seem, former West Point grappler, is promising a winning team this year.

Since the completion of the Davidson College Highway between Charlotte and Davidson, students have come to recognize Charlotte as “town.” One man who missed catching the expected ride and had to walk the entire twenty miles has reverted back to the old theory that “Jaybirdsville is a fur, fur piece from town.”

How many men would like to see Fall term examinations held before Christmas, as in years past? It is our guess that one-third of the student body would vote for such a move. And a big majority of the remaining two-thirds is in favor of adopting a three-session system. Think it over for yourself!

The present Senior class could leave no better record behind them than a clean set of business records. One of the most embarrassing situations in which the student body has found itself this year is that of straightening out unpaid accounts from previous years.

The man who refrains from smoking at the “Y” movie show is not doing a work of charity or mercy. He is displaying a common courtesy.

The men at Davidson have not allowed themselves to fall into the slothful current of the Ma Jong movement. It is a fruitless waste of time for college men who are spending their days in life’s preparation. Davidson men still swear by the old game of “Draw.” It’s so much faster and, too, it’s the game our fathers played.

UNIVERSAL IMPERFECTION

Man comes into a world of faultiness, a being of faultiness; he passes into eternity still branded with that universal failing. At every turn through life there is fault and fault-finding. The torturous way of life, itself, is beset with faulty points and seemingly impossible barriers. But, faultiness is not sin. It is man’s own property, assigned to follow him from the downfall to the resurrection. It is a trait; a quality inherent; a thread interwoven with the fabric of character. It is the endowment of every man that lives. It is a part of nature, the most perfect thing conceivable. It is the will of the Creator. Would it be part of the divine plan to send man into the world innately endowed with faults, if faults led but to disappointment and destruction? There is a purpose in the universality of imperfection. “They say, best men are moulded out of faults,” writes Shakespeare in Measure for Measure. Here the great playwright assigns the faults of the world as a source of some goodness. Is it possible that out of the miserable failures and blemishes of humankind there might arise some righteousness? Is it possible that an act of beneficence and goodness can come from a person whose whole being has been saturated with the mistakes of life? If it were not so, there would be no hope for man, for fault is born with man. Every life is a battle against failure. Shakespeare knew this, from his observation and study of humankind, and had he gone into a fuller explanation of his terse statement that “best men are moulded out of faults,” he would have explained that the man who best combats his faults and failures is the man who will attain success. Man is educated by his mistakes. He profits by losing. He succeeds after repeated failures.

The answer is yes!

The ultimate end of imperfection should be perfection. The purpose of faultiness is excellence. The ore as it comes from the earth, polluted with the dirt and filth, is man over-burdened with imperfections. And yet the purest gold may come from the blackest ore. From the intense heat in the furnace of life, where faults and misgivings may be run off through a process of persistence and will-power, there may come a lump of true gold. Faultiness is not sin. It is the stuff from which the best men are moulded.

NEEDED—TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS!

The Student Store, operated under the supervision of the Student Council, is a money-making enterprise. The business is a thriving one, and the methods employed in its operation are sound. The profits from the store for one year, when the enterprise is thoroughly established, will be expressed in four figures. It has the backing of the entire student body, and with a continuation of the same able management under which it has been started, it should be a permanent institution on the campus. So far as has been made public, there has been no provision made for the appropriation of the profits. The store is operated by the Student Council, through an appointed manager, for the interest of the student body, hence the profits should be directed in those channels which will lead to the maximum good for the student body at large. It has been rumored that the profits of the student store will be turned in to the Athletic Association. There are other speculations as to the use of these funds. The Athletic Association is on the firmest financial footing of any organization at Davidson. It is true that the treasury of any organization on the hill would stand replenishing, and that the Athletic Association is in need of funds, but there is no denial to the statement that athletics receive the best support of any activity in the college, and, admittedly, this should be true. Is it not true, however, that there are other needs which outweigh that of the Athletic Association? The source from which this activity draws its financial aid is more prolific and productive than the agencies which support other student endeavors. There is one activity which is recognized as equally important with athletics. This is the student publications. Few men on the campus stop to consider, however, that approximately ten thousand dollars must be expended annually to keep these publications up to the necessary standard. Of this amount approximately seven thousand five hundred dollars must be raised through student ingenuity, the remainder being paid through the campus tax at the beginning of each session. Think for a moment! Over seven thousand dollars must be raised, principally through the sale of advertising space. The little village of Davidson furnishes less than two hundred dollars of this amount. The only source from which to draw is Charlotte, and since the Davidson publications circulate very little in that city, space must be sold at a low figure, or not at all, a fair per cent of this income going to overhead expenses, cost of collection, etc. Charlotte is called upon to support the Davidsonian, the Davidson College Magazine, Quips and Cranks, the Y. M. C. A. Handbook, football programs and any number of desk blotter enterprises from Davidson. In addition there are two publications, a weekly newspaper and a yearbook from Queens, a weekly paper and an annual from the Charlotte High School, a Junior High School paper, and the Johnston C. Smith University publications. It is a drain upon the Queen City to provide for this number of publications, and a drain upon the energy and time of the Davidson student publishers to keep their publications free from debt. The profits from the student store should be turned over to the publications. To apportion the amount fairly, we would suggest that the net profits of the store, after the salary of the manager has been paid, be divided as follows:

30 per cent to Quips and Cranks.
30 per cent to the Davidsonian.
20 per cent to the Davidson College Magazine.
20 per cent to Student Body treasury.

This would be a fair division of the money. The 20 per cent retained in the student body treasury would serve as a fund for incidentalGeneral expenses of the student body. The publications merit the whole-hearted support of the students. It is a tremendous enterprise to operate them on the high level the editorial boards are trying to maintain; it is, seemingly, an accomplishment of the impossible. The profits from the student store would give them a firmer foundation upon which to stand, and a new lease on life.

D. THE ONE WHO DREAMED
A Tribute to Woodrow Wilson

You were the one who dreamed; who climbed into the clouds,
Your soul leapt to the stars, your spirit bruised the skies.
And you were strong as men are strong, but weak as men are weak,
For who has strength to hold the crumbling moon
Or stem the ebb and flow of silver tides?
You were the crucified, pierced by the nails of scorn;
You died the martyr to a dream, the victim to a cause.
You were the brave who threw a gauntlet down,
And there it lies, your glove, on bleeding ground.
Who is there now to pick it up again?
You blossomed forth a flower too gentle for this world.
Your tints of lavender and rose were silenced in their
Yet daring reds and golds.
The perfume of your soul, so delicate, has drifted in the wind and is no more.
Ah, child of God, the fruit is not yet ripe
But spring is blowing blossoms on the tree,
Ah, prophet of a better age, I see your puzzled brow.
How could you understand, who offered something great,
The scorn with which your people turned it down?
How could you understand,
Whom the oppressed with laurels wreathed
That doubters here should give you bitter thorns?
And now that you are gone a poet is gone
For poets and statesmen both have eager souls that flow
Beyond the body's bounds, and both must fashion dreams
And build their empires or their poems on unknown ground.
So you, philosopher and poet,
Built minarets that sparkled high, too high,
And wove soft stuffs of silken thread and gossamer and lace,
But iron was lacking and the world still builds with iron
And never sees the beauty of a lace.
Philosopher and dreamer, and a poet.
Is that the whole indictment of the world?
For Plato dreamed, and Pericles, and dreamed,
And was Columbus void of dreams,
Who sailed across the sea to prove one true?
And Pitt and Beaconsfield who moulded Britain's empire from a dream.
Did Wilson dream? Like them, he dreamed.
And what then are these dreams but shadows of events to come,
The prophecies of poets, the order to advance?
In many years, or few, for who can know?
But sure as time, and as the Spring's returning;
As sure as God has given man a soul;
So will the groping world turn back to you
And find you still the same
Calm, confident, and smiling through your pain.
Each star must have its setting;
Each dream a stern awakening;
And nights must pass and days must pass
But stars and dreams and nights and days return
When clouds of passion all have passed away.
Your night has slipped into the dawn;
And morning dew shines on the dark-green grasses;
And gems begin to sparkle on the sea.
Turn back a moment. Look! Your bark has slipped its anchor;
On the shore a nation and a world look after you.
W. F. Garraway.

CHAFF

“So This Is Leap Year.”

Well, speaking from a purely veracious and unprejudiced point of view, it ain't far fetched from being any other kind of year. A professor of journalism in a girls’ school down in the Empire State, where peaches are prepared for home use through a process of education, assigned this subject as a fitting theme for a feature story. Dear Professor, send your cubs round this way! We have ought to whisper in her ear! If this year don’t quit being Leap Year pretty soon there won't be a vestige left of this noble old educational institution. You don’t see why? Well, here’s a fair example of a style of supplicatory letters received by Davidsonian during the good year 1924:

Any Girls’ School,
Any old time, 1924.

My dear and most respected Sir,
I send you this your love to stir.
’Tis you I have chosen first of all on whom to make a leap year call.
I give to you the fairest chance, that you may quickly make advance.
I do not ask your heart in jest, and I trust you'll grant this one request.
Send me back without delay either the answer yea or nay.
Now please be prompt in your reply and let me be yours till I die.
Yet, if for me there is no hope, then send to me five yards of rope.
With every kind of love and kisses,
From one who wants to be your “Missus,”
Just a Real Good Girlie.

And do you expect the human race to remain single? Paul Price had sworn a sacred swear that he would travel the way of life single-handed, and that when it was all over he would go to Heaven, where all is perfect, so that he would not be bothered with feminine faces. Paul received a letter as quoted above. The lure of the peach crop was a magnetic force, and Paul hesitated in his anti-mama campaign. The redoubtable character asserted itself and Paul penned the following answer to the siren-letter, swearing another sacred swear that Leap Year would never lure him to destruction, and that the fascinating, enticing wiles of the generally regarded irresistible Woman, would never draw him onto the treacherous reef of matrimony:

Davidson College,
The Sooner the Better.

My Precious darling little Miss,
I wish that I your lips might kiss in token that I grant the plea which you so lately made to me.
But, soft! It is not meet nor just that I should ere mislead you thus, for though I want you to be mine, I can not ere be wholly thine, as I, in part, do love another. Why not let me be thy brother? For like my prototype St. Paul (though I will not deny thee all) I do not think that I shall wed a girl, I'll take light wines instead. Although they both intoxicate, the wine's effects will soon abate; while if a woman I should wed, I am undone until I'm dead!
Hysterically, Pablo.

Post Scriptum: It took great thought to thus decide. I trust you will not suicide. But since I cannot give you hope enclosed you'll find a bit of rope. Ditto.

There you have it, ladies and gentlemen. Follow the example of Paul the Pablonian, and save the species. Pullin’ in single harness is so much sweeter than double teaming. Whoopee

And while we are speaking of the ill-fated annum we may as well place several other names before the public. To date Otis Brenner leads the field in mail proposals. Ben Ratchford’s total of five appeals is not far behind Brenner’s seven. Tom Barr is not doing badly, and Johnnie Selser and Chester Monk are heartbroken over the one post-card proposal they have gotten between them. Harry Blue has lately entered the field with a couple, but he states to the Davidsonian that he doubts if they really meant it. Whoopee

It is with assorted and mingled feelings that the enticing missives are received by the local sheiks. In many instances there is an expressed sympathy for the dear old things. In some cases there is a resentment of the bold effrontery of the wily sheiks. Whoopee

Certain members of the faculty, it is understood, have received said missives with a paternal spirit and with the kindest of feelings for the feminine cute things.
—PUP.

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

Improvement

The beginning of a new term marks another milestone in college life and opens the door for new avenues of endeavor. The fact that examinations are behind and a clear road is ahead should prove an asset to those engaged in the many varied activities of college life. The spring term with its so-called fever, brings with it the strong desire to engage in outdoor sports. According to the present prospects Davidson’s record in baseball, track, and tennis will be far above the average this year. This will furnish an opportunity for many of the new men to show their ability in these lines. The realm of the forensic art holds yet other opportunities for anyone interested in showing his prowess as a speaker. Two inter-collegiate debates are already scheduled for this term, in addition to the Freshman debates that have been arranged. The new term finds the editors and business managers of the various college publications working hard to put their tasks over in first-class shape. A backward glance at the past term’s successes and failures may profit to the degree of helping each man do his part that this new term may be one of the very best in Davidson’s history.
—26.