THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 2, 1924

Yellow Cabs Town News Topics | | | Literary Societies | Are Good Cabs Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24 Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte YOU'LL FIND THEM

Mrs. J. P. Williams is returning home this week from Montreat, where she has spent several weeks. Mrs. Walter Henderson is away on an extended visit with her family. Mrs. James L. Currie’s home on October 3rd at 4:00 p.m. The good news of President Martin’s improvement has gladdened the hearts of all students and townspeople.

The Book Lover’s Club will meet at Mrs. James L. Currie’s home on October 3rd at 4:00 p.m.

Metrophilian
The most important feature of the first regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society was the reception held for the new men. Previous to this, a short business meeting was conducted, which was featured by a debate on the question: Resolved, That Freshmen and Sophomores should be forced to join some kind of athletics. Pullen and Covington, upholding the affirmative, lost the decision to Trawick and Parker of the negative. D. H. Stewart gave a recitation. The Freshmen were not initiated but will be formally received into the society at the next meeting.

Mr. and Mrs. John Allison, of Concord, were the guests of Miss Lizzie Young on Tuesday. Rev. J. H. Grey, of Bedford City, spent Wednesday with his brother, Dr. W. R. Grey.

A debate by four Freshmen, “Resolved: That it is worse to live in a house with a smoky chimney than one with a quarrelling woman,” also made a big hit. After the initiation, the old members gave the new ones a big feed. Professor Dendy made a short talk and promised to come back again. With a live set of officers and an enrollment of around forty, the Phi Society is looking forward to the best all-round year of its history.

ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co. Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s VICTORY CAFE

The Woman's Auxiliary meets in the church Thursday afternoon at 4 o’clock.

The Thelemites Book Club will hold its first meeting this week, at the home of Mrs. Fred K. Fleagle.

Dr. J. M. Douglas accompanied the varsity football squad to Asheville Friday and was time-keeper at the D. C.-P. C. game Saturday. Prof. W. M. Mebane drove to Dublin, Va., to meet his family, who were visiting there. They will return this week. Mrs. S. H. Brady, who has been on an extended visit to Davidson, left Wednesday for her home. Mrs. S. H. Brady returned with her for a short visit. Douglas Brown, of Greensboro, is a guest at the home of Dr. Martin. Mr. Rumple will leave soon for Mexico, where he is in business.

Miss Naomi McConnell, who until recently was the popular assistant at the post office, leaves shortly for Raleigh to attend a business college.

Dr. and Mrs. Frazer Hood went to Asheville on the special train Saturday to see Davidson defeat P. C. Prof. K. J. Foreman also was on the special train.

Miss Sarah Lingle left last week for Columbia University, where she will study this year.

There were quite a number of out-of-town people at Dr. Stephen Leacock’s lecture Tuesday afternoon. Among these were Mr. and Mrs. Allison, of Concord.

The following out-of-town guests registered at the new Maxwell Chambers Hotel last week: Mr. W. D. Hoyton, Atlanta, Ga.; Messrs. A. A. May and A. Leanhardt, of New York City; Mr. T. W. McCreery, of Birmingham, Ala.; Mr. C. F. Thomas, of Philadelphia, Pa.; Mr. W. A. Christian and family, of Mobile, Ala.; Dr. and Mrs. Goodman, and Mrs. Wood Johnston, of Mooresville.

Miss Dorothy Finlayson spent last Sunday in Concord. Miss Mattabelle Hyer, of Orlando, Fla., has been the guest of Mrs. Roy Caldwell for several days. Professor and Mrs. O. J. Thies are now occupying their new home. Buck Currie, of Louisville Seminary, spent the week-end on the hill. Miss Steele is visiting at the home of Dr. and Mrs. Martin for a few weeks.

The men of the Presbyterian Church met last Thursday evening in the basement of the church to discuss various matters.perfect the organization of a club called “The Men of the Church.” The General Assembly of the Southern Presbyterian Church is launching a drive to install these clubs in all the churches. Supper was served.

Guidon of the 2nd DRAGOON GUARDS

Image Ready! The Correct Clothes For Collegians. Our Men’s Section Invites Your Approval of Fashion Park’s NEWEST!

Mr. T. J. McIlwaine, of Farmville, Va.; Mr. R. R. McIlwaine, of Jacksonville, Fla.; Mr. A. M. Shiman, of New York City; Mr. W. E. McCoy, of New York City; Mr. and Mrs. J. S. McAllister, of Greensboro, N. C.; Mrs. L. B. Bennett, of Trenton, Tenn.; Mr. A. D. Brinkley, of Suffolk, Va.

SOME WONDERFUL EXAMPLES OF FAITH (Continued from page 1)

He had nothing to do with it, that it was done against his will. “The superintendent and the young minister prayed together, that the child not be found that morning, for if such were the case the witch doctors would claim honor to themselves. They prayed that late that afternoon the babe might be brought home by someone coming from a faraway village.

“About dusk that evening a young boy, coming from a faraway village, and going much further on his journey, came into the village bringing the little girl with him. The child had been brought home exactly as the prayer had asked. That is the greatest example of faith I have ever seen, and the only incident that surpasses it, in my knowledge, is the account of Elijah’s contest with the prophets of Baal. There is power in the blood.”

“The second incident is that of an old chief who had an affliction. The chief had been advised by a missionary to visit a white doctor in a village some 90 miles away. He finally decided to go, much against the will of the witch doctors, who set out on his trail making medicines to hinder him. However, he went to the doctor, the affliction was removed, and he was cured. He promised the doctor that if, after five months, the affliction had not returned, he would accept Christianity and with his acceptance would clean up all the village. The affliction did not return, and five months later I was in the village. I reminded the chief of his promise, and he called for all the idols, fetishes, and images, and had them destroyed, and the village cleaned up. A year later I visited the village, and there was not an idol to be seen.”

“The third story was of a man who was an anaemic, and suffering from a great loss of blood. He was dying, and was being borne away from a village where lived a doctor. The man looked to me to heal him, but I did not have the medicine, nor the medical skill to heal him. They bore him away, and as he went out of my sight, he raised himself and looked back at me as if to say, ‘I came to you, and you disappointed me.’ I could not help him, because I had no medicines, but that face is still staring at me.”

The speaker ended with a plea for more medical missionaries. “They are looking to us. Shall we fail them?”

Murchison, H. F. Peterson, J. H. Roseberry, W. S. Sells, W. F. Stigler, Tom Talbot, Jr., P. S. Tompkins, Caldwell Wilkins, J. H. Wildman, and J. J. Willard.

Pandemic

The Pandemic Literary Society held a regular meeting Wednesday night, September 24, at which time 12 new men were initiated. The initiation ceremony was enjoyed by both the candidates and the members. A very humorous debate was held between B. G. Alderman and M. M. Lockhart on the negative and P. G. Garrison and D. W. Hancock on the affirmative. J. S. Foster was appointed for an oration also. Each candidate introduced himself, telling where he was from, why he had come to Davidson, and giving the name of his girl. This ended the candidates’ part in the program.

The president called upon Monk and Hollingsworth to speak a few words to the new men. This they did, telling them the purposes of and reasons for the society and calling upon them to take an active part in it during the coming year. The new men were welcomed by a rising vote of the society, after which everyone enjoyed a feast prepared by E. K. Regen. The following men were initiated: H. B. G. Arbuckle, Owen A. Chatham, P. G. Garrison, J. S. Grey, M. M. Lockhart, D. W. Hancock, B. McClaugherty, L. L. Dubose, J. Falls, J. M. Yonan, S. M. Steele, and B. G. Alderman.

Philanthropic

The Phi Society met last Thursday night at nine o’clock, and after a regular program, presided over by Vice-President Ratchford, proceeded to the business of “Fresh” initiation. This was in charge of C. C. McMillan, who gave the old members a treat by the tricks he played on the ten new men. Part of these gave humorous improvisations.

Bryant led the song service, Purdy was pianist, and Hamilton and Gray rendered a violin duet. Paul Patterson and Buck Shaw led in prayer during the meeting.

Made Feasible

Writing life insurance has enabled many a man to pay his way through college. It is a dignified calling and a true social service. To induce your fellows to form habits of thrift — to obligate them to put by a little of their income — to safeguard them against future loss of earning power — is a form of effort that brings keen satisfaction as well as profit. These are only a few of the reasons why the insurance business today is attracting the very best brains of America. Write for the full particulars of a plan whereby you can assist yourself through college, and, at the same time, prepare for a profitable and satisfactory business career.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. Gunter, Vice-Pres. & Agency Manager

New York Cafe
Davidson, N. C.

When Hungry Call On Us

CENTRAL PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing
Dry Cleaning
Pressing
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE