THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1, 1925

Judge T. B. Fraser Passes Away at Sumter Home
Graduated from Davidson in 1881—Justice of South Carolina Supreme Court

“The blue flag of South Carolina flies at half mast atop the State house—token of the state’s sorrow at the death at Sumter yesterday morning of Thomas B. Fraser, associate justice of the Supreme Court of South Carolina.” So says the Columbia State in a lead article in its issue of Friday, May 22. The account continues:

“Justice Fraser last week had sat with the court for its regular May session, and Saturday had left Columbia apparently in the best of health and spirits. Yesterday morning came the word of his death.

“As a mark of respect to the dead, the state flag was ordered lowered to half mast as soon as the news reached Columbia. It will be continued at half mast today.

“All offices of the state government will be closed today as a mark of respect, and practically every branch of the government will be represented at the funeral.”

The news brings a touch of sadness to the Davidsonians who knew and loved this distinguished alumnus, of the class of 1881. Judge Fraser is vividly remembered by many Davidson students for his masterful address before the Y. M. C. A. last fall.

Thomas Boone Fraser, in addition to being an eminent lawyer, of whom Davidson might justly be proud, was a strong man of God. At an early age, he united himself with the Presbyterian Church, of which he has been a devout member for many years. He served his Church on the board of deacons and as elder for a long period of time. He has been one of the teachers of the Men's Bible class since its organization. He also helped organize the Business Men's Christian Club of Sumter, one of the first of these clubs in the state, and he has been zealous in promoting Christian organizations for the moral and religious betterment of the community.

Concerning his character, the account of his death says the following: “The associate justice was a man whom everybody in the community respected. Sumter was proud of him, for he was a learned lawyer, a fearless and painstaking judge, a good and patriotic citizen, and a pious and sincere Christian gentleman of whom no one could ever say one word of reproach.”

He was stricken with a heart attack about midnight. At that time the family physician was summoned, and Justice Fraser was removed to the hospital. All efforts to save him were to no avail.

Mrs. Fraser, formerly Miss Emma Edmunds, was away at the time of the heart attack, attending to their daughter, Miss Claudia Fraser, who was sick at Kannapolis, N.C. The sympathy of all Davidson is extended to Mrs. Fraser and Miss Claudia Fraser.

An editorial in the Columbia State pays so fine a tribute to this eminent son of Davidson that it is here quoted in full:

“Son and namesake of the editor and circuit judge, Thomas Boone Fraser, Mr. Associate Justice Fraser, whose death in Sumter, South Carolina, laments today, worthily wore through 65 years an honored name, and served well his Church and State.

“Lawyer 30 years at the Sumter bar, 11 years member of the lower House in the General Assembly, during five of which he was chairman of its judiciary committee, and since 1912 a member of the supreme court, Mr. Fraser throughout his career held and practiced exalted ideals of public service. He bore himself, as lawyer, legislator, and judge, with simple dignity, with high-minded regard for professional decorum, and with the most delicately scrupulous care for interests committed into his hands. The fine tradition of the South Carolina supreme court gains no little by reason of his 13 years on its bench.

“Mr. Fraser in private life was a modest Christian gentleman, faithful and diligent in the work of his Church. Earnest Bible student and teacher, he powerfully influenced for good the many young people who first and last held membership in his classes.

“South Carolina’s name and fame never rested more secure than in the hands of T. B. Fraser.”

We would suggest the following method of grading for all professors:
25 per cent for knowing the name of this college.
15 per cent for originality.
15 per cent for arriving on time.
10 per cent for staying the whole period.
10 per cent for knowing who wrote the textbook.
23 per cent if the student doesn’t sleep more than half the time.
2 per cent for knowledge of subject.

The Class of 1915 which founded the Davidsonian holds its tenth reunion this commencement. Members of the original staff, F. W. Price, editor-in-chief, and W. A. McIlwaine, have brothers on this year’s staff, exactly ten years later. Neither will be present at the reunion as they are both on the mission field, Price in China and McIlwaine in Japan.

The first issue of The Davidsonian was published April 1, 1914. The April Fool joke is still going stronger than ever.

FIVE HUNDRED

Five hundred are expected to be present at the annual luncheon of the Alumni Association which will be held in the gymnasium tomorrow at 1:30 o'clock. The trustees, seniors and alumni meet together and at this time the seniors will be taken into the membership of the association.

Mr. Lumsford Richardson, '14, of Greensboro, is the president of the association and will preside at the luncheon. Mr. H. T. Mills, ‘06, of Spartanburg, S. C., is the first vice-president, and Mr. J. C. Harper, ‘15, of Lenoir, is second vice-president. Prof. T. L. Blythe, '07, of Davidson College, is the secretary-treasurer of the organization.

The Alumni Association has done much to help in the improvements which have been taking place during the past few years. The president of the association, Mr. “Lump” Richardson, is the donor of the Richardson Athletic Field, a cut of which appears below. This field includes two gridirons, a baseball diamond and a quarter-mile cinder track. For two years the athletic contests have been played on this field, although the grass had not come up well. Now, however, there is a good stand of grass on the entire field, and it is one of the finest in the state.best in the state. The reunions of the various classes will be held at this time, the class of '24 holding its one-year reunion, the class of '20 its five-year reunion, and the classes before them every five years, the class of '15, '10, '05, '00, '95, and others their respective reunions. Immediately following the luncheon, which will be held in the main hall of the gymnasium, the president will call a meeting of the Alumni Association. The question of securing an alumni secretary, which was passed at the last meeting but never acted upon, will be brought up once more. The organization of the alumni has reached a high level, and Davidson is feeling the result of their work and cooperation. The officers for the coming year will then be elected and will assume the responsibility of leading the Alumni Association during the coming year. The alumni had a large part in the securing of Coaches Monk Younger and Tex Tilson, who have both signed up to coach again, Younger for a two-year period and Tilson for one more session.

DRAMATIC CLUB (Continued from page 1)
Mrs. F. G. Hengeveld
Jean Mattie Maclemore
Scene—Dressing room of Whitlow’s Great National Circus.

THE TWAIN MEET
By Hayden Hollingsworth
Benton Wharton
Mr. Gregory
Arthur Martin
Paul Patterson
Mr. Armstrong
Lun Wang
Martha Gregory
Nina Holt White
Scene—The living room in Mr. Gregory’s home.

TWENTY-FIVE FIRST TO HOLD COMMENCEMENT IN CHURCH

The present Senior class is the first to hold its graduation exercises in the Davidson Presbyterian Church. Before the burning of Chambers, the commencement program was regularly carried out in the auditorium of this building. Since the historic local fire of November 29, 1921, the classes of '22, '23, and '24 have graduated in the auditorium of Shearer Hall. Experience has shown, however, that the hall is too small to seat comfortably the large group of friends and visitors which came for the occasion, in addition to the portion of the student body which remained. It has been found, also, that Shearer Hall, when packed with people on a warm day, can become very warm also. The Senior class petitioned the session of the church some time ago for the use of the church for the graduating exercises, and this permission was readily granted.

The New Richardson Athletic Field

Board of Trustees Holds Semi-Annual Meeting

Dr. W. L. Lingle Heads Board Which Governs College

Tomorrow the Board of Trustees will hold their semi-annual meeting. This promises to be a full and unusual one, as many important matters are to be brought up. Preliminary to the meeting of the Board, the executive committee will meet. One of the duties of the Board is the passing of the diplomas of the Senior class. The members of the Board are elected by their respective Presbyteries of the Synods of North Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. Fayetteville and Orange Presbyteries are entitled to four trustees each, Mecklenburg to five, Concord to eight, and all the others to two each. Six additional members are elected by the Alumni Association. The semi-annual meetings of the Board are held at the college on the last Wednesday of February, and on Tuesday of Commencement week. The officers and executive committee are elected each year at the second meeting. The executive committee meets several times during the year and exercises all the powers of the Board during the intervals between the meetings of the Board itself; its acts, however, are subject to the review of the Board of Trustees. The officers and executive committee have the following members: Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., president; Mr. R. A. Dunn, vice-president; Mr. S. A. Robinson, secretary; Mr. T. L. Jackson, manager. Executive committee: Rev. W. L. Lingle, D.D., ex-officio chairman; Mr. S. A. Robinson, ex-officio secretary; Mr. R. A. Dunn, Mr. W. T. Belk, Mr. H. N. Pharr, Rev. Byron Clark, D.D., Mr. W. J. Roddey.

O. D. K. Chapter Edits Booklet

Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa at Davidson College has, as its closing activity for the year, published a small volume entitled "The Spirit of the Wildcat." The 12 chapters which this little book contains are an attempt to crystallize the finest points in that intangible something known as Davidson spirit. In a sense, this may be considered also as partly a contribution of the class of '20. The titles to the 12 chapters with their authors are as follows: Introduction, by J. A. Davidson; Traditions, by C. F. Smith; The Fighting Wildcat, by W. M. Gracey; Outside Activities, by C. M. S. McIlwaine; Fellowship, Democracy, and Class Spirit, by C. M. S. McIlwaine; Student Government, by N. L. Sappenfield; Davidson Men as Christian Men, by A. H. Hollingsworth; Faculty and Students, by Mr. H. L. Jackson; Alumni, by Mr. J. P. Williams; Davidson Products, by R. B. Parker; "College Ties," by A. M. Martin; Conclusion, by H. B. Price. In order to bear the expenses of publication, copies have been sold to members of the student body and friends of the college. The purpose of the publication is to acquaint new men and friends of the college with the ideals of her student body, and to inspire greater pride and devotion in the fact of being a Davidson man. Omicron Delta Kappa Society is an honorary society composed of a limited number of men chosen from the upper classes for conspicuous service to their alma mater or leadership.

CHIEF EVENTS (Continued from page 6)
May 5: Tennis team brings home state championship in doubles.
May 8: New Student Council sworn into office. Hendrix Sappenfield speaks briefly.
May 9: Currie ties for world’s record in 100 yards in Greensboro, running with Scholtz, who unofficially broke the record at 9 1-2 seconds.
May 10: Mrs. Robson's Mother's Day talk.
May 14: D. Club initiation.
May 15: Freshman Holidays begun abroad over the county.
May 15: Senior exams for many.
May 30: All examinations over.
May 31: Commencement exercises.
June 3: The close of the class’ history together, and farewells said until the big reunion in 1930!

Kissing a girl after you have asked her permission is just like getting a rain check after the eighth inning.