THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1925

Mackenzie Casmeres IMPORTING — OF PHILADELPHIA NEW PRICES WARREN'S TAILORS TUXEDO SUITS $45, INCLUDING CHOICE OF VEST $35.00 Finest Worsteds
Showing April 23 at 103 West JACK CUNNINGHAM Representative We Invite Your Business

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs Just Phone 24 LARGE OR SMALL Any Hour of the 24 Charlotte to Davidson INDEPENDENCE
or TRUST CO. Davidson to Charlotte YOU'LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB Look For the Black Top Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co. Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s “ON THE SQUARE” N. C. || CHARLOTTE:

COUNCILMEN (Continued from page 1) workers of the present Junior class. Christian, W. T. Stewart. Bill Christian was president of
the Sophomore class, and is vice-president of the Y. M. C. A. for next year, and is counted by all
who know him as a splendid fellow. Don Stewart was a member of the freshman debating team last year, a
member of Alpha Phi Epsilon and is popular this year in his class and in the entire student body.

The Freshman class elected for their Student Councilmen for next year; John Foster, and Camper O'Neal. John Foster was president
of this year’s Freshman class, and the class showed its confidence in him by reelecting him to the Student Council.
Camper O'Neal has still to make his mark but great confidence is placed in him and he is expected to
be worthy of the trust his class put in him. The new student council will be installed before April the
twentieth, and will then have the responsibility of governing the affairs of the students.

DUKE SMOTHERED (Continued from page 1) Pannington, rf 1 0 1 1 0 1 Hattnez, p 0 0 0 0
0 0 Notals 11 24 8 5 Davidson Fresh AB R H PO A E Grey 3 0 3 2
3 Kugler, ss 3 2 4 2 2 0 Arrowood, 1b 3 3 8 0 1 Johnson 4 2 2
0 Tate 4 2 2 0 Maulden 4 2 2 0 Dulin 3 4 2 0 0 Dulin 2 5
5 2 3 0 McNeil 2 2 0 0 5 2 Edgar 2 2 1 3 0 1 McGeachy, c
0 1 0 1 Poole, p 6 1 4 1 2 0 Totals 41 22 16 27 10 10

Score by innings: Duke Fresh 200 102 030—8 11 5 Davidson Fresh 500 003 68x—22 16 10

Summary: Three Hits, Bruton. Home run, Dulin. Double plays Fulghum to Bennett, Bunting to Cranford to Bratley, Edwards to Dulin,
Maulden to Dulin, Johnson to Dulin. Sacrifice hits, Bennett. Stolen bases, Cranford, Bennett (2), Fulghum (2), Bunting, Bratley, Grey, Johnson,
Edwards, Poole. Left on bases, Duke 3, Davidson 5. Passed balls, Weaver, McNeil, Edgar, McGeachy. Hit by pitched ball, by
Swift (Edwards, Arrowood). Wild pitches, Poole 2. Bases on balls, off Sutton 2, off Jones 3, off Poole 4. Struck
out, by Sutton 1, by Jones 1, by Swift 4, by Poole 5. Umpire, Pat Crawford (Davidson).

WILDKITTEN ORATORS WIN (Continued from page 1) until the last speaker of the rebuttal, A. T. Dillard had spoken. The
decision of the judges was unanimous in favor of the affirmative. Dr. Shewmake presided at this debate and Camper O'Neal,
the alternate, was timekeeper. At Chapel Hill the debate, which was not as fortunate for Davidson in the outcome, was
close and hard fought. Black, and Eaton upheld the question while John McKnight, Harry Peterson, and Henry Powell of Davidson
opposed it. The members of the Student Council from next year’s Junior class are: W. A. Covington and D. H.
Black. The affirmative team argued mainly that Wilmington, the probable site for the port, was well adapted to the construction
of a large port.class last year and found so by experienced geologists and member of the Student Council this year.
He is an honor roll man, and a very He is also secretary and treasurer of the Y. M. C.
A. The negative team argued that it would not reduce freight. The teams were so evenly matched that the outcome
was extremely doubtful. The judges’ decision was 2-1 for Carolina. The teams were chosen from a group of twenty-two men
who tried out in the preliminaries. With such a number as this interested in debating, forensic activities are taking on
new life here. The main reason for this is the work done by Prof. Wachter in forming these activities. In
no small way is the success attained by these teams due to his untiring efforts. The success of this year
gives great promise for future forensic activities at Davidson.

INITIATED FOUR MEN TO SIGMA UPSILON

On Wednesday night the Blue Pencil chapter of Sigma Upsilon, national literary fraternity, initiated its four recent electees from the
rising Senior class. The initiates were: S. W. Brown, C. F. Monk, E. P. O’Connor, and R. B. Parker. Each
of these men has shown unusual brilliance in literary achievement, thus winning election to Sigma Upsilon, the highest honor bestowed
for literary prowess.

S. F. Brown has gained recognition as one of the premier short story writers in college and has also been
a frequent contributor of poetry and essays to the Magazine. Brown has only recently been appointed Short Story Editor of
the Magazine. He is also a leading member of the I. R. Club. His recent election as Editor of the
Magazine sufficiently bespeaks Monk's ability as a writer. Monk is one of the prominent members of his class. He has
been a member of the Davidsonian staff, assistant cheerleader, and member of the Board of Control.

E. P. O'Connor is undoubtedly one of the most gifted writers at Davidson. He is perhaps the poet-laureate of the
college. As Poetry Editor of the Magazine for the past year, he has acquitted himself creditably. O'Connor, too, is a
member of The Davidsonian staff and of the I. R. Club.

Roland Parker has won recognition in literary circles in various departments. He is Essayist Editor of the Magazine and Associate
Editor of The Davidsonian. He has also won prominence in other lines, being President of the rising Senior class, a
recent electee of Omicron Delta Kappa, an Honor Roll man, member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, the “Y” Cabinet, and the
I. R. Club.

C. F. Smith is the only other Junior who can claim membership in Sigma Upsilon. Smith, who was elected last
fall, is the most versatile writer in Davidson and is one of the leaders in the student body. He is
Editor-in-Chief of The Davidsonian and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa. Since his freshman year, Smith has been recognized as
the literary genius of his class.

Davidson seems to have promising material in the line of tennis. With most of the varsity graduating next year, someone
is going to be needed. Comparative results of meets by both schools with Wofford, and time in the events, foretell
a heated contest—not only in running but in the field events, too.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES
GOOD SHOES STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no
feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.” Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always
good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE
SHOES LUGGAGE

One question that always arises in the mind of every serious thinking college man is, “What am I going to
do after graduation or during vacation?” This is an important question, worthy of serious consideration. In a very definite way,
the life insurance business offers you the opportunity for success. In no field is there a greater chance for the
college man. Write to us for particulars.

THE PILOT
PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER PRESIDENT
H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.
