THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925

Campus Experts Contribute Latest and Most Interesting Cross-Word Twister

By J. H. Wildman—J. P. Harmon

Vertical
1—To make away with.
2—A small particle of floating dust.
3—A British general (1761-1809).
4—Any of the aquatic animals allied to the martens.
5—Part of the German verb Sein translated into English.
7—Corrode.
8—Part of the Latin reflexive Se.
9—One kind of rod.
10—Setie ice (Comp).
11—An English scholar (673-735).
12—Any valuable animals not wild, found wandering from its owner.
15—Part of the German verb Sein.
18—The fats about the kidneys in mutton.
20—A fashionable assemblage.
22—A tax.
23—To encounter.
25—Saws used for perforating the skull.
26—Idled.
28—Large cats of Tibet.
31—The seeds of any leguminous plants.
33—To endow.
38—Either of the covers of a book.
39—The dancing to face one’s partner.
40—A collection of pus in the body.
41—Sharp sounds.
42—Plural of French word King.
43—An inert gaseous element found in the atmosphere.
44—Any of the various viscous substances.
46—Ones in temporary possession of lands of another.
48—Plural of any of the diseases.
50—Small rowboats.
52—Plot of an epic poem.
54—Chevronel (French).
56—Lobe spelled in the order 1, 3, 2, 4.
57—An unctuous combustible substance.
59—To surmount.
61—Distress signal.
62—A carnivorous, domesticated quadruped.
65—Abbreviation of North West.
66—North America (Abbrev.)

Horizontal
1—A colorless gaseous compound.
7—To allege to belong.
13—Remedy (Obs).
14—To affect with abruptness of a blow.
16—Units.
17—Steers (Obs).
19—Common occurrence.
20—Smidt.
21—Any of the tropical American genus of xerophytic plants of the cactus family.

Macready, U.S.A., former holder of the world’s altitude record. Just behind the propeller you can see the G-E turbine supercharger which kept the Liberty motor running in the thin air, six miles over the mountain by a mile. Year after year, plucky explorers try to climb Mount Everest, the world’s highest peak. The supercharger is a turbine air compressor, which revolves as fast as 41,000 times a minute—the highest speed ever developed by a commercial machine. It is designed and made by the General Electric Company, which also builds the big turbines that supply electric light and power. If you are interested in learning more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete set of these advertisements.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

Davidson College Glee Club Plays Before Big Winston-Salem Crowds

Quartets and Symphony Orchestra Score Hit With Salem College Students

The Davidson College Glee Club made a long trip to Winston-Salem last Friday, where in the evening they performed in the auditorium of Salem College. An exceptionally large and appreciative audience listened attentively to the varied program and pronounced it a decided success. The audience was chiefly made up of the young ladies of Salem College, and with such an attractive audience before them, the boys were inspired to do their very best.

Each and every number of the program was rendered in artistic style and the young men have certainly found for themselves a place in the hearts of the people of the “Twin City.” If any unusually bright spots might be picked out, this honor would fall to the K. K. K. Quartet and the Symphony Orchestra. The K. K. K's, composed of Lockhart, Martin, Lowrance, and Wilson, have been popularly received wherever they have appeared this season. Each of the boys has splendid voices, which blend together beautifully. The Symphony Orchestra, under the direction of J. R. Earnest, has a number of talented musicians in it throughout the year.Their selections of very classical music, including excerpts from the great opera and symphonies composed by the old masters, have met with particular success.

23—A race course.
24—Free from depression.
26—Grief.
27—A denial.
28—An asterisk.
30—Destitute of pelvic fins.
31—After.
32—Old clothes.
34—German verb meaning to place.
36—Plural of the French adjective "sa."
37—An indehiscent, one-seeded fruit with a woody pericarp.
38—Pill.
39—A small freshwater lake.
40—A very small quantity or degree.
41—Moving in a course or current.
45—An explosive.
47—To come into existence.
48—A suffix denoting the result of an act.
49—A voracious fish with no pelvic fins.
51—A case of the Latin reflexive "se."
52—Conclusion.
53—Prudent.
55—A sharp brief sound.
56—Part of the Latin adjective meaning neither the one nor the other.
60—Reflux (Plural) French.
61—In colloquial Latin, a correlative of "si."
63—Past participle of a verb meaning to destroy.
64—Part of the Latin adjective meaning sole.
65—Man without a country.
67—Pleasure (Obs).
68—Reduplication of "saw," to express the alternative motion to and fro.
69—Cupfuls (French).

DR. PRATT, OF LOUISVILLE (Continued from page 1)

In the use and application of talents with which a person is endowed, Dr. Pratt said that a simple definition of Christ was what a man saw in himself. A last illustration of Dr. Pratt’s was the habit of Samuel Taylor Coleridge of putting marginal notes in books he had borrowed from friends. These annotations enhanced the value of the book far above its original worth. Christ can do that with a life. A life loaned to Him will be returned completely annotated with possibilities and powers that will make it count for service and Christ in the world.

MONDAY MORNING, MARCH 30

Dr. Pratt gave a short but helpful talk on “Christian Ideals.” He pointed out that it was of little importance what a person’s business was so long as the business was gone into with high Christian ideals. “A man never rises above his ideals,” said Dr. Pratt. His real theme was that a person should make money to live, and not live to make money. “Aim high and work hard—and guide your life with the teachings of Christ.”

MONDAY NIGHT

Dr. Pratt chose as his text John 17:35 for the theme of “What the World Owes to God.” He began with the illustration that as the explorer, McMillan, predicts a new Ice Age, so a new religious era is dawning upon us. He gave as proof that twice as many Bibles were sold in New York last year than any previous year, and five times as many religious books were sold in the United States. For the reason for this, Dr. Pratt said that it was due to the increasing materialism of the world before the Great War, but that this served to draw men back. He pointed out that there never had been a time when men were discussing the Bible and religion so much, and it was all because men realize their need of God.

“To hold faith in God is to make life victorious,” said Dr. Pratt. “We must have an intimacy with God, we must believe in the immortality of the soul, and above all must know God as a Father.” He closed his powerful appeal to come back to God, the Eternal Father, with the statement that “this is a weary world, meaningless, empty, if the thought of a Father God is withdrawn.”

BRUNSWICK RECORDS

2816—75c. Peter Pan—Fox Trot. Everything You Do—Fox Trot. Bennie Krueger's Orchestra.
2818—75c. Jacksonville Gal—Fox Trot. Mishawaka Blues—Fox Trot. The Cotton Pickers.
2815—75c. Old Pal—Fox Trot. Sun-Kist Cottage in California—Fox Trot. Oriole Orchestra.
2814—75c. You and I—Fox Trot from “My Girl.” Me Neenyah—Fox Trot (Spanish Love Song.) Ray Miller and his Orchestra.
2823—75c. On the Way to Monterey—Fox Trot. That’s My Girl—Fox Trot. Ray Miller and his Orchestra.

Bon Marche
FIRST FLOOR TRYON STREET ENTRANCE

For neat appearance, the great aid to success. Keep your hair combed all day with LO-CO (Gloss-Comb) THE ORIGINAL LIQUID HAIR DRESS FOR Real Men and Boys

Send for Sample Bottle
Mail coupon today for a generous trial bottle.
Normany Products Co., 6511 McKinley Ave., Los Angeles, Cal.
Name
Address

God.” He began with the illustration that as the explorer, McMillan, predicts a new Ice Age, so, a new religious era is dawning upon us. He gave as proof that twice as many Bibles were sold in New York last year than any previous year, and five times as many religious books were in the United States. For the reason for this, Dr. Pratt said that it was due to the increasing materialism of the world before the Great War, but that this served to draw men back. He pointed out that there never had been a time when men were discussing the Bible and religion so, and it was all because men realize their need of God. “To hold faith in God is to make life victorious,” said Dr. Pratt. “We must have an intimacy with God, we must believe in the immortality of the soul, and above all must know God as a Father.” He closed his powerful appeal to come back to God, the Eternal Father, with the statement that “this is a weary world, meaningless, empty, if the thought of a Father God is withdrawn.”