**THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925**

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH.............................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON............................ Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES................................. Assistant Managing Editor
W. B. WILSON.............................. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER.............................. Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE............................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH..................... Associate Editor
............................................. Alumni Editor

Business Staff
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH............................... Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER.......................... Circulation Manager
J. M. GARRISON............................ Subscription Manager
G. W. WILLIAMS............................ Solicitor
V. S. BROYLES............................. Solicitor
B. D. GLASS............................... Assistant
JULIAN DARBY............................. Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
W. S. GORDON
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH
B. MARTIN
W. ANDERSON
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
J. E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
K. K. REGAN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
J. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
J. B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS
J. G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
B. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
J. P. GLADNEY
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Is she the best paper in the State? We'll say she is.

The addition of so many good-looking young ladies to our already beautiful campus certainly put just the right touch of color here. The students in general seemed well pleased.

The young lady at the banquet the other evening got off a real pun when she vouchsafed that she was certain that the boys of Davidson had left a good taste in the mouths of the visiting delegates.

Long-legged John Currie, of the Freshman class, has hung up two college records to his credit during his brief sojourn here. He ran the century in the state meet, in 10 seconds flat, and lowered the record for the 220 by two-fifths of a second. Anyone who had the fortune to see him stepping out in the Clemson meet, will have no doubt that he will break more records before he leaves here.

The mosque-like shrine dedicated to the goddess of water, which is now being erected by the Senior class, will go a long way towards helping to beautify the campus. Built on the same general line and of the same material as the new Chambers building and the gate which was presented by the class of ’24, it will provide a suitable place for the housing of an up-to-date drinking fountain, and will provide pleasant refreshment for the thirsty wanderer who partakes of its delicious coolness.

At the time of this writing, there are only twenty-six days, three hours and a few odd minutes until all examinations will be relegated to history, and outbound trains, busses and vehicles of all descriptions will be impressed into service by boys eager to reach home. During the few short days that remain before the final grade appears, we can put in a good amount of honest study and make up for time that we have idled away this spring.

We think the conference of young people that recently assembled on the Davidson campus, a most successful one from every standpoint. It is the only organization among the college students of the state whereby new ideas can be exchanged and problems confronted that would never be worked out elsewhere. Not only does this association deal with problems relating to the collegiate publications, but it throws the college man and the college woman together in a way that is denied through other sources. It fulfills a much-needed want among the various colleges, and its future is assured by the success that has already attended its work.

OUR MOTHERS

Next Sunday is Mothers’ Day, bringing with it a multitude of memories. It is a day set aside by national authorities in which children and children’s children think especially of those who gave them life, those who have watched them through the years with tender eyes, loving caresses and off-repeated prayers. Although Sunday will be a day known as Mothers’ Day, to us it seems that every day should be a Mothers’ Day. We should not set aside merely one day to think of our Mothers, but it should be a policy, as well as a great privilege, to think of our Mothers each day. We might think of her in our prayers, or we might say a kind word in our letters, or we might send her every now and then some little token, insignificant in its value, perhaps, but behind which is a world of sentiment for our Mothers.

Oftentimes boys and girls away at school receive boxes of things to eat from home, or some other little missive which indicates that they are in the mind of the ones that they love and the ones that love them. The delicacies received maybe prove delicious and delightful, but it seems to us that there is something which is still more sweet and pleasant, and that is the thought of the sentiment behind the things that are sent from home. Someone was thinking of you when those things were made, someone was trying to show just a little more how much she loved you.

It naturally follows that when boys and girls go away to school that they then come into a full appreciation of a life at home. They come to realize just what a Mother's love has meant to them. They look back upon their home life, and see the multitude of little things done by Mother that was for their benefit and theirs alone. They look back and remember that lots of times Mother has done things for them when perhaps they (the Mothers) were very tired, but because of a Mother’s love, and because they wanted their children to have the greatest pleasure, they have not uttered a word of complaint, but have expended their effort in a constant manifestation of their affection for their children.

Few are the students at Davidson or elsewhere that would not like to be transferred to their homes again during their high school days. What a contrast it would be! They would not let Mother do this, or Mother do that. They would be glad and willing to do it themselves. However, that cannot be; and since this is impossible there, is an alternative that would bring a greater joy to a Mother’s heart than relieving her of some of her tasks and worries. Mothers’ hearts can be gladdened by her sons and her daughters endeavoring to live up to her ideal or her expectations. It is not possible, we believe, to live a life that would conform to that which our Mothers would want us to live. Their ideal is so high! They always wish for the best. And though we cannot touch their ideal; we students can so live our lives that it will be a reflection of honor upon our Mothers’ names. We can so live our lives that we will never trample under foot the fair name of Mother, that we will never do anything that would bring dishonor or discredit upon her name, and that we will never do anything that we would be ashamed to tell our Mothers—the dearest and the closest ones to us.

Sunday we shall wear a flower upon the lapel of our coat. There will be hundreds of thousands of flowers worn. Some of them will be red, while some of them shall be white. Those who wear red ones are fortunate. They still have an opportunity to show to that Mother of theirs a small portion of the esteem in which Mothers should be held. To those who shall wear a white rose, there is an element of sadness in their hearts. They do not have a further chance to lavish their tender regards upon their Mothers. And while it is indeed sad that not all of our Mothers are living, the students whose Mothers have been called by the One who gavethem life can remember that while living, their Mothers always lifted above an unbroken chain of prayers for their welfare, that God would carry them safely through life. It was an outpouring of their love, and although God has seen fit to take them away, those prayers and that love should prove a guide to their actions and a lamp to their feet. 

Secured ample compensation for the many hours of arduous work spent in writing and making up this paper. The student body feels that an honor has been conferred upon the college by reason of the official organ of the college being chosen as the very best out of a dozen or more excellent publications from all over the State. It is our hope to continue this good record next year, and thus to have this paper chosen for the third consecutive time as the best representative of college journalism in the entire State, if not in the South.

A Freshman mailed a letter to a friend in New York and sent it general delivery. To make the missive all the more certain of reaching its destination, he sent it special delivery.

The least that those who still have their Mothers can do is to write them a letter for Mothers’ Day, or send them a message, or perhaps call them on the telephone, if not too far away. They know you do, but tell them about it. Tell them how much you love them. Tell them how much they have meant to you. And let their lives be duplicated in our own. To our Mothers, we can never give too much praise. To them, we owe life. They are the ones who watched our baby footsteps, and who have since watched our steps grow into manly ones. Throughout life, and as long as they live, our Mothers will be thinking of us, their love will ever be a strengthening force, and their prayers will be incessant to God that their children shall have His guidance over the rocky path of life’s journey. To write them and wear a rose is an insignificant expression of our love, but to our Mothers, such a thing would be augmented into a mountain-top of love on our part.

W. E. M.

WHY NOT?

At a recent meeting of an honorary fraternity held on the campus, the question was brought up concerning the building of or utilizing a hall where the various fraternities and clubs could hold regular sessions. That is, those honorary fraternities and clubs that play such an important part in the activities of the college, but have no halls or places where they can engage in regular sessions. This has been a problem for some time and has become especially acute in the past year or so on account of the rapidly increasing number of organizations that have been formed. The honorary fraternities, the various clubs, the Y. M. C. A. cabinet, the Dramatic Club, the Glee Club, and many others have suffered because of a lack of room where they might hold sessions and not cause inconvenience to others. Shearer Chapel has long served as a meeting place for every kind of meeting, but it is not suitable for a small gathering. A building on the order of a recreation hall with rooms and halls is, of course, almost an impossibility. However, we believe that some arrangement could be made for the use of a hall or large room of some kind that could be used by those organizations that really feel the need of it. Such a place would make the students take more pride in their organization, thereby causing growth in those very necessary adjuncts to college life.

Minor Chords

OUR PILLARS OF STRENGTH

The conflagration all consumed,
Proud Chambers was no more,
To smoldering ashes ‘twas reduced—
Its useful days were o'er.

That stately edifice so strong,
And with tradition fraught,
When once those wily flames made way,
Was cruelly set to naught.

Now, down and gone, those mighty walls,
Those old gray stones so grand;
But yet her lofty columns still
Without a backing stand.

Four strong supports against the world,
Destruction they defy;
They brave all winters’ storm and strife,
And give defeat the lie.

Thus staunch and true the four ideals,
Which Davidson inspires,
Stand firm against the storms of life,
And yield not to its fires.

Honor bright, we hold thee high;
Unselfishness, supreme;
We strive to put our best in all,
And live a life that’s clean.

C. S. Davidson, ’28.

AN AUTUMN EVENING

The earth is hushed. A spell is laid o'er all;
While the sunset, like a great majestic ball
Goes o'er the rim. The very trees are still.
A lone leaf flutters down. The solemn earth is crimson, red and golden brown,
And nothing moves. The silence hovers still;
While daytime turns to night,
And our great orb sinks slowly out of sight,
And so to rest.

T. Gorden McCutcheon, ’27.

“Inter-Frat Council” to replace Emory Pan-Hellenic. Emory Council will become part of the national organization of fraternities—Emory Wheel.

Let them know that you love them.

Chaff

Too Many Kisses

If to kiss a Miss
Is a kiss amiss,
And to miss a kiss
Is a kiss missed,
Oh, the Misses that are kissed
And the kisses that are missed!
Oh, the missing of kisses
And the kissing of Misses!
Kisses, Misses, Misses, Kisses!

Directions for Kissing

If you'd enjoy the heavenly bliss
Extracted from the luscious kiss,
Then learn the art of arts most thrilling
By catching first a girl that’s willing,
And when you've caught her as a test
Just clasp her closely to your breast,
And if responsive to your greeting
You'll know it by her heart’s quick beating;
Then her lips yours gently meet,
Take one long breath, then repeat.
You'll find in this sweet occupation
The acme of all osculation,
The charm of all entrancing blisses:
‘Tis just the way my sweetheart kisses!

The R. O. T. C. of the Kiss

A kiss is the explosion of love's artillery after being called to arms,

Chemistry of the Kiss

KI+2H2S=KIS2+42H2.

A girl can be gay in a sporty coupe,
In a taxicab she can be jolly,
But the girl worth while is the girl who can smile
When you take her home on the trolley.

Arithmetically Speaking

A kiss is nothing divided by two.

Geometrically Speaking

A kiss is two curves having the same center and coinciding throughout.

Grammatically Speaking

A kiss is an absolute compliment.

Rhetorically Speaking

Unity, coherence, and emphasis.

Philosophy of the Kiss

Though girls kiss each other,
I don't see why they do it,
For without a real man
There ain't nothing to it.

Phil Cox, they say, is always quite gay,
In love affairs most fickle,
But every sweet Miss prefers him to kiss
With his mustache sensation and tickle.

The Value of a Kiss

Once there was a young man in Mount Airy who ended a serious flirtation by stealing a kiss from the young lady behind the counter of the City Hot Dog Company. The proprietor became greatly offended and ordered the malefactor to leave town immediately. The poor unlucky boob, not knowing where to go nor what to do, landed by chance on a cruiser that was headed for Africa. When he arrived, he bought a small strip of land from the natives on which he later discovered diamonds that netted him 50,000,000 dollars.

Moral: Everyone that goes to Africa is not a missionary.

What Price, Story?

Bill Story went to see his girl,
He looked his very best.
He had his hair all shined and curled,
A rose upon his breast.
He'd had a shampoo and a shave,
A manicure, massage.
A box of Huyler’s, no more he’d save,—
He even hired a Dodge.
When from the show, just they alone,
They sat apart like this;
And all he got for money spent,
Was just one farewell kiss.

Queens—Did you hear about the big fight last night?
Davidson—Gracious no, tell me about it!
Queens—A cat licked his paw.

What Price Ignorance?

The slick city negro and the little negro from the country stared together in the window of the delicatessen store. There was displayed a number of large alligator pears. Sam, from the country, spoke up.

“Whut’s dem watermillions wuth in dere?”

“Dem ain’t no wattermillions,” said his companion, “dey’s alligator pears.”

“Nigger,” said the country darkey, “don’t you try to go an’ fool me. Nex’ thing you know, you'll be telling me dat them bananas over dere is giraffe peaches.”

A man jumped from the tenth story of the Johnston Building in Charlotte the other day. He lived during the spring, but he died in the fall.