JUNIOR-SPEAKING

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. - APRIL 9, 1925 No. 25

Junior Speaking Plans Assure Fun and Jollity During Spring Holiday Period

Joyous Festivities Begin With Motion Picture at Gymnasium Thursday Evening

MANY VISITORS COMING

Humorous Publication in Form of Magazine Will be Distributed to Guests

Junior Speaking, with the usual festivities and merry-making, starts at high-noon Thursday, although the major activities incident to the occasion
will not commence until Thursday evening when the students and their young lady guests will gather in the gymnasium to
witness one of the newest photoplay releases. The exact title of the picture has not been announced, but arrangements have
been made with distributors to secure an entertaining and appropriate screen attraction. From the opening scene in the first reel
of the special movie, until Sunday evening when an unusual “Y” service will be held, the week-end will be replete
with unparalleled amusement.

The Junior Class committee, working under the leadership of D. G. Wilson, has planned for a full schedule of events,
and students are assured of the greatest “Speaking” ever staged. The premier fete of the class of '26 is marked
by Junior Speaking, and the Juniors have combined efforts to bring it to a successful conclusion. No details have been
overlooked by the class, in their effort to give students an extraordinarily enjoyable time. Special athletic contests have been arranged,
and a stupendous carnival and minstrel has been scheduled for the occasion. These features will be augmented by glee club
and dramatic club performances, as special added attractions.

(Continued on page 2)

Members of Next Year’s Magazine Staff Appointed

Editor-elect C. F. Monk, of the Magazine, announces the staff which will assist him in producing the Magazine next year.
E. P. O'Connor, who was poetry editor this year, will retain this position next year and will also be assistant
editor. He has shown his ability as a poet on several occasions. One of his poems was printed in the
latest issue of the Future, an anthology of the best college poetry of the year. He has also written a
number of poems for the Magazine. The Essay department will be edited by R. B. Parker. Parker has distinguished himself
on the Hill in literary circles since his Freshman year. As a reward he was recently elected to Sigma Upsilon,
the highest literary honor which can come to a man on the Davidson campus. His activities have not been confined
to writing, but he has made himself known in forensic circles, and was also recently elected president of the Senior
class for next year. Another man who has shown genius is S. W. Brown, who will handle the Short Story
department. Brown was recently elected to Sigma Upsilon. He has written a number of essays and short stories for the
Magazine in the past two years. W. C. Ogden, who has written several short stories, will edit the Cap and
Bells department. His humorous and ghost stories have caused considerable comment on the campus. T. C. Barr, who has turned
out a number of essays and short stories, and who has written for The Davidsonian, will head the

(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Nosed Out by State and Elon On Many Errors and Faulty Teamwork

Errors Prove Costly to Wildcats and They Lose Two More Uninteresting Games

The Wildcat baseball team met defeat twice during the past week, first at the hands of the N. C. State
nine and later by Elon. N. C. State turned back Davidson to the score of 10 to 8. Elon scored
her defeat to the tune of a 6 to 2 score. Both of the games were played in unusually inclement
weather for baseball. The Wildcat nine did not seem to show much improvement over previous games. Errors and ragged playing
were prevalent in both games. The first game was a ragged affair on both sides, although State showed up better
than the Wildcats. The final score was 10 to 8, with State sitting on the heavy end. The weather was
extremely rough and this was probably the cause of many errors by both teams. Davidson began the game well, a
homer by Vance bringing in two runs with him. The Techmen came back in the fourth and sprang into the
lead when six counters were scored. A rally was made by the Wildcats in the fifth, but they failed to
tie the score. In the ninth three hits brought in two runs for the Presbyterians but this also failed to
even the count. Vance was the outstanding star of the

(Continued on page 7)

Davidson Players Score Hit by Lively Program

Mrs. Fred Hengeveld Stars in Laughter-Provoking Comedy Drama in Shearer Hall

“The Flapper Grandmother,” featuring local talent in the roles of Bingville’s select citizenry, scored a big hit with the large
audience of students and townspeople who flocked to Shearer Hall to witness the stupendous production. Chorus girlies and flappers galore
were the big features of the performance, in which Mrs. Fred Hengeveld, as Lena Springgins, was the distinct star. The
curtain rose on an empty stage, onto which Jimmy Swift, dapper young ruralist, personified by “Piggy” Martin, made his entrance.
From this moment on the production kept the audience in the toils of laughter and amusement. “Piggy” and Mrs. Hengeveld
occupied the stage for several minutes in a rip-roaring comic skit, scheduled as a curtain-raiser, in which they portrayed to
the satisfaction of all spectators the initial drive of a young country girl in an automobile. The curtain dropped soon
after this skit, only to be raised on a far-different setting, that

(Continued on page 8)

Success Marked Efforts of McIlwaine as Editor

Chalmers M. S. McIlwaine Retires From Editorship of Davidsonian After Successful Career

Chalmers M. S. McIlwaine—more popularly known as “Chong” on the Davidson campus—concluded with the last issue of The Davidsonian a
most successful editorship. His natural journalistic ability, coupled with his untiring efforts, gave to the publication during the past year,
one of the most successful administrations ever enjoyed by an editor of the publication. The new staff, in taking over
active

(Continued on page 3)given unstintingly of his best efforts for the good of the publication. His administration has been successful
in more ways than one. Throughout the editorship he has maintained a high standard of news-value and make-up for the
paper; and much of the praise that The Davidsonian has been accorded during the past few months by other college
publications are due in no small measure to the work of McIlwaine.

(Continued on page 6)

JUNIOR SPEAKING CALENDAR — The program for Junior Speaking as tentatively arranged is as follows:

April 9—Movie, Thursday, in Gymnasium.
Friday, April 10—Finals Junior Oratoricals. Baseball, Fresh vs. Rockingham High. Glee Club and Orchestra Recital.
Saturday, April 11—Baseball, D. C. Fresh vs. Duke Fresh. Carnival and Minstrel.
Sunday, April 12—Special “Y” Service for Visitors and Students.
Monday, April 13—Baseball, D. C. vs. Carolina, at Salisbury.

Baker Heads Athletic Council
Omicron Delta Kappa Initiates Campus Leaders and Alumni at Public Meeting for Coming Year

At the student body election for officers for the Athletic Association, held last week, Tom Baker was elected president; Joe
McConnell and Jim Pinkney, vice-presidents; and Hugh Arrowood, secretary-treasurer. Baker won in the second run-off, over Laird, Vance, and Black.
Tom is one of the most popular members of the student body and has been constantly interested in athletics while
at Davidson. He is an invaluable man on the football team, a letter man, and characterized by sport writers as
“that red-headed, fire-eating Wildcat.” Pinkney and McConnell are both football men, having won their letters last fall. McConnell played center,
while Pinkney held down one of the wings. Both are popular members of the present Sophomore class. Arrowood, of the
present Freshman class, won in the secretary-treasurer race over McMillan and Melton. Since coming to Davidson, Arrowood has taken an
active interest in both football and baseball. He won his D. C. as a member of the Freshman football squad
and is showing up fine in baseball practice. There is little doubt that he will make a regular berth on
the varsity squad next fall. Tom Baker won a place on the all-state team last fall by his fighting qualities,
that has made him one of the most valuable football players that Davidson has ever had. Playing the game always
fair and square, his stubborn aggressiveness has been the marvel of all who have seen him. Bucking up against opposing
players nearly twice as large as himself, he has always given a good account of himself.

Thirty-One Associate Members Chosen from Prominent Alumni and Friends
JOHN R. TODD SPEAKS
Big Public Initiation Ends With Delightful Banquet for New Members at Hotel

On Friday night of last week the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa Society held its semi-annual initiation. The important
factor in connection with the occasion was the initiation of 31 associate members chosen from the alumni who were at
Davidson prior to the installation of this circle in 1916. The active circle honored itself in selecting these men whose
names are still remembered for their enviable record made while here. The private initiation was held at 7:00 p.m. in
the Eumenean Literary Society Hall, and at 8:00 o'clock the new circle proceeded to Shearer Hall, where the public exercises
were held, after which an enjoyable banquet was given at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. The program in Shearer Hall was opened
with an invocation by Rev. Mr. Pharr, of Gastonia. Next, Dr. J. M. McConnell gave a brief but comprehensive history
of O. D. K., setting forth the principles and ideals of the organization as loyalty, service, and leadership. Following this,
J. A. Lake read the list of associate initiates, and H. B. Price read the list of student initiates. C.
M. McIlwaine, president of the local circle, presided throughout the evening. The speaker of the evening, Mr. John R. Todd,
of New York City, was introduced by Dr. W. J. Martin, who in forceful terms cited the exceptional privilege of
those present in having Mr. Todd to address them on this occasion.

(Continued on page 6)

Wofford Runners Bow to Wildcat Squad as Downpour Slows Up Time in Sprints

New Fraternity Founded by Biological Students
Nine Students and Two Instructors Honored With Membership in New Scientific Club

Six weeks ago several students especially interested in biological work organized and formed what is known as the Biological Club.
This society was begun to meet the long-felt need at Davidson for some honorary club in connection with the biological
department. The other scientific courses each have had an honorary fraternity for several years to which students showing marked interest
and ability along that particular line are extended bids. The Biological Club will operate in a somewhat similar manner. The
student charter members are: J. M. Covington, L. E. Calhoun, J. P. Hendrix, A. C. Lawson, F. H. Lindley, M.
E. Miller, W. E. Miller, P. M. Patterson, and M. M. Teague. Professors C. C. Zeliff and W. L. Porter
compose the faculty membership. Doctor Porter is head of the biology department with Professor Zeliff as his assistant. At a
recent meeting Calhoun was elected president; Patterson, vice-president; and Covington, secretary and treasurer.

(Continued on page 2)

Continuous Showers Dampen Ardour of Spectators as Events Run Off

The Davidson track team won its first track meet in two years Saturday afternoon when the Wofford Terriers were easily
defeated by an 87-39 score. The meet was held on Richardson Field with intermittent drizzles of rain keeping down both
the spirit of the crowd and any exceptional records from being made. Davidson started off by winning a good majority
of the points in the high jump and shot put and kept up the pace throughout until the visitors were
out of the running. Harry Goodykoontz, Wildcat dash man, proved to be the only exciting feature of the meet as
he started off the track events with a first place in the hundred, got another first in the two-twenty, and
in the final run of the afternoon was the first to break the tape in the four-forty. By winning 15
points, Goody was high point man for the second time this season. Captain Gracey, after a rather poor start the
week before, began his climb back to a leading position by placing next to Goodykoontz with 13 points, coming out
first in the high hurdles, javelin throw, tying for second in the pole vault, and taking third in the shot
put.

(Continued on page 6)
