. THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1925

Local: Presbyterian Church Holds An Inspirational Evangelistic Meeting

Ninety Converts Made While Many Consecrate Their Lives Anew

Reporters’ Club Members

Local Journalist and Professor of Greek Speaks from Experience

DR. BLACK PREACHES

Townspeople, School, and College Students Attend Services Held Throughout Past Week

On last Friday night, the Reporters’ Club held a meeting with Dr. C. R. Harding as the speaker of the
occasion. Dr. Harding, who is the professor of Greek in the college, has also had quite a bit of experience
as a correspondent for different journals and was able to give some first-hand and practical information.

In the first place, the speaker pointed out several ways in which the reporter is benefited by the work he
contributes to the college paper. He showed that working as a reporter was of great good to both those who
intend to be journalists and those who do not. In speaking of reportorial work, Dr. Harding particularly stressed the importance
of the reporter's reading a great deal but at the same time being very careful as to what he reads.
He gave to those present the very A. B. C. Cs in reportorial work, showing how anyone might make a
success and why it was necessary to require a certain standard of all the reporters.

Marked success attended a series of evangelistic services conducted last week in the Presbyterian Church by Dr. W. C. Black
and his song leader, Mr. Burr. Meetings were held both morning and evening, every day last week, each meeting being
attended by a goodly number of townspeople and college students. The Methodists and Baptists shared in the meeting. Dr. Black
is the Synodical evangelist for North Carolina. He has been in this kind of work for thirty-one years and has
thousands of converts to his credit in this state. Davidson feels that it was fortunate in securing him to hold
this meeting. Because of his inspiring sermons, he is always in demand. Those who heard him were aware that his
subject was always “The Gospel” and his object to save souls for Christ. Some of the subjects that Dr. Black
expounded were: “And He Came to Himself;” “Prepare to Meet Thy God;” “For What is Your Life?” “And Lot Pitched
His Tent Toward Sodom;” “What Shall We Do With Jesus?”

Mr. Burr, the singer, has been with Dr. Black in this work for thirty years. He achieved good results both
from his special music and his leading the congregation in choruses. He was assisted in the special music by Mrs.
Daugherty, Mrs. Martin, Miss Finlayson, Gray, and Franklin.

To publish a good paper means that every contributor has to be more than reasonably accurate and skillful in such
work. In making such a statement, he did not leave it without proof but pointed out some concrete instances. In
conclusion, he made some suggestions as to the faults of The Davidsonian.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

“Junior Speaking starts today with a rush as many of the fair sex arrive. Many young orators make their debut
tonight.” Such was the heading to an article of February 26, 1920.

The results of the meeting were especially good for the short time that they were held. There were about 95
converts and many more reconsecrated their lives to God. Most of those who joined the church were children under 18
years of age.

“Joyful and Jubilant Jubilee.” There were several front-page pictures in The Davidsonian of the “fire” on the “Hill.”

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs Just Phone Any Hour of the 24

Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte

YOU'LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB

Look For the Black Top Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co. Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

That was the week that Davidson snowed the University of South Carolina and Wofford under to the tune of 27-25,
and 38-17 respectively.

“Our beautiful golf course is now under much-needed repairs, and soon the course may be enjoyed by the many golf
lovers.” So ran an announcement in The Davidsonian; also the “small” fee of five dollars was extracted from each of
the golf devotees.

“The R. O. T. C. department is the receiver of a most appreciated gift at the hands of Mr. J.
W. Pharr, of Charlotte. This gift is in the shape of expensive battalion colors, which were presented to the battalion
at a recent date.” The Davidsonian carried a long letter of thanks to Mr. Pharr for this much-needed gift.

In some ways, this was a most unfortunate week for Davidson. Coach Crayton has just resigned, and the college was
forced to scour the country for his successor. Meanwhile, the students were casting many anxious eyes in the direction of
rival schools so as to give their coaches the “one-over.”

We Invite Your Business

LARGE OR SMALL

BISHOP PENICK SPEAKS AT COMING “Y” VESPERS

Bishop Penick, of the Diocese of North Carolina, will speak at the coming Y. M. C. A. Vespers.

For the purpose of stimulating genuine interest and honest discussion along lines vital to Davidson and to the individual students
here, the Y. M. C. A. will for several weeks run in this column a short, and, as far as
possible, a fair discussion of both sides of questions which are already of interest to readers of The Davidsonian.

Is Davidson all that we claim it to be? NO

Davidson prides herself, as do many colleges, on college spirit and college traditions. As to spirit, it must be admitted
that, as a rule, her teams are hard-fighting, but the student body has this year given the teams but poor
support, especially in basketball. As to traditions, these might be counted on the fingers of one hand, and are not
very strongly adhered to by quite a large group of students. Only a few courses in the curriculum are stimulating
to original thought and interest, as taught. Another Davidson boast is that the student body is 100 percent Christian, the
measure being church membership. Not more than 25 percent of the Davidson students are real Christians. How any moral church
member, who does not live in vital, living relationship with God, is any better than a Left guard Substitutions—For Tech:
Cousins, Krebs, Kennedy; for Davidson: Beall, Hudgins, Huie. Referee: Still (Illinois).

Davidson 18, Washington and Lee 33

Saturday night, the Davidson team met its only defeat when the Generals won 33-18 in their final appearance on the
Lexington court. The Wildcats were overcome by a faster and more smoothly working crew and throughout the entire game were
forced to trail behind by a good margin.

Captain Lake led the scoring of the Washington and Lee team with 14 points, while Herdon and Wilson were runners-up,
Wilson showing up nicely at guard. The score at the end of the first half was 15-8.With the Generals leading,
in the final period the home team used a good number of substitutes. The line-up and summary:

Davidson (18) Position Wash. & Lee (33)
Right forward: Baken (@) - Gla
Left forward: Laird (4) - Lane (4)
Center: Anderson (4) - Vanhorn (4)
Right guard: McConnell - Wilson (7)
Left guard: Boggs (C) (5) - Funk

Substitutions — Davidson: Beall; Huie. For W. & L.: Little; Mitchell; Herdon (8); Gibson; Henderson; Wice; McCandless; McVey; Smith. Referee:
Twombly (Springfield), Leech (V. M. I.); scorer: Klein (W. & L.); timer: Smith (Oshkosh).

Davidson 35, Hampden-Sidney 17

Davidson took the third game on the trip, winning 35-17. The first half was a walk-away for the Wildcats, ending
with Davidson holding the big end of a 20-5 score. In the second period, the Virginia Tigers played much better
ball but were never able to threaten the Wildcat lead more than getting within nine points of it. Tom Anderson
again led the Davidson scoring, getting 13 points. Laird was second with 10 points. Outside of this, the shooting of
the Davidson team was a bit off-color. The line-up and summary follow:

Davidson Pos. Hampden-Sidney (17)
Right forward: Staley - Squires (2)
Left forward: Laird (10) - Als (7)
Center: Anderson (13) - Fleming (4)
Right guard: McConnell (4) - Harper (3)
Left guard: Boggs (C) - F. Smith

Substitutions — Davidson: Beall; Huie (2); Hudgins. For Hampden-Sidney: Dudley (1); Parker; Ward; Dehass. Referee: Carrington (Virginia); scorer: Fleming (H-S);
timer: Brenier (H-S).

Davidson 41, Roanoke 19

Davidson finished the trip Tuesday night, walloping the Roanoke quint 41-19, thus making it four victories out of five games
played. The final contest was played in Roanoke. The Davidson team led throughout the entire game. The line-up follows:

Davidson (59) Position Guilford (27)
Right forward: Staley - Parrall
Left forward: Laird - Richardson
Center: Anderson - R. Smith
Right guard: McConnell - F. Smith
Left guard: Boggs (C) - F. Smith

Substitutions — Guilford: Thomas for Smith; Sparger for Thomas. For Davidson: Beall for Staley; Hudgins for Beall; Beall for McConnell.
Referee: Stuart.

Davidson 40, V. P. I. 29

In a game hard fought from the first, the Wildcats made it two straight on their trip by defeating Virginia
Tech, Friday night, 40-29. Playing in Blacksburg, the Davidson quint got off to a flying start and were able to
maintain the lead throughout the entire game. In the second period, the Gobblers came near tying the score in a
hectic rally, but the Wildcats braced and came out of the game victors by a good margin. The two teams
played nip-and-tuck during the first half, the Wildcats pulling out to a 16-11 lead as the period was closing. The
second period started off good with the Gobblers springing a fast offensive. Coach Younger sent in three substitutes, whose great
defensive work stopped the Techmen. Then with Anderson, McConnell, and Laird running true to form, the Wildcats ran out to
an 11-point lead.

Davidson prides herself rightly on her college spirit. Her teams have a South-wide reputation for never giving up until the
last whistle blows, no matter what the odds may be. The students have never failed, within the past few years,
to respond to an appeal to college spirit. The Davidson tradition of an atmosphere of friendliness throughout the student body
is one which the college has held throughout the years. High standards of character are adhered to by a large
percentage of the student body. Alumni of Davidson have been men, as a rule, of marked success. The faculty contains
men of high character. Davidson men have the reputation of being among the finest in the South. Might we not
apply the now proverbial, “By their fruits ye shall know them,” to the products of Davidson?

The Davidsonian for the 26th of February, and from the many comments on that eventful occasion, it must be said
that the Wildcats scored; but after a few minutes, the Wildcats began their terrific playing, ending the first half with
the score 27-13, Davidson leading. The Quakers started the second period with another four points, but the Davidson quint was
soon back in form, running up 32 points before the half ended. Coach Doak's men fought valiantly to hold the
Wildcats, but were not able to meet the fast play of the visitors. Anderson at center was the leading scorer
and outstanding player of the game, closely followed by Staley and Captain Boggs. R. Smith showed some neat floor work
for the Quaker crew, also leading their scoring. The line-up follows:

Davidson (59) Position Guilford (27)
Right forward: Staley - Parrall
Left forward: Laird - Richardson
Center: Anderson - R. Smith
Right guard: McConnell - F. Smith
Left guard: Boggs (C) - F. Smith

Substitutions — Guilford: Thomas for Smith; Sparger for Thomas. For Davidson: Beall for Staley; Hudgins for Beall; Beall for McConnell.
Referee: Stuart.

Some question was raised at Centre College as to whether they would discontinue the publication of the Centro. It was
decided, however, that they would continue its publication, and also that of the Centre College Colonel. The Centro dates from
1880. It has been published every year since its first appearance as a college magazine.

A professor in West Virginia Wesleyan College has discovered a new method of cribbing, employed by the co-eds. The girls
wore flesh-colored stockings with notes written on their ankles. The notes were legible when the fabric was drawn tight. We
are glad to say this method of “riding” will not be used here on account of the present style of
hose.—The Guilfordian.

Since 1868, THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GOOD SHOES STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no
feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.” Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always
good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE

SHOES LUGGAGE

You Learn

COLLEGE Students of ability can make good money in their spare time acting as our representatives. We have a clean-cut
proposition that insures a steady income during college and after graduation, if desired. Write for details, without obligating yourself.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Carolina, living in Charlotte, will speak at the “Y” Vesper Service Sunday. Bishop Penick is chairman of
the Personnel Division of the North Carolina Young Men’s Christian Association and is particularly well fitted for contact with young
men, from a large experience along that line. Bishop Penick is one of the best speakers of the South and
is in great demand, as the appointment for his talk here was made some four months ago. Bishop Penick is
a comparatively young man and, in addition to his accomplishments along religious lines, is a champion tennis player of this
section.

“ON THE SQUARE” CHARLOTTE N. C

MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection Oldest Largest Best 8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE

HAT SHOP Pressing Dyeing
