4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.................Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN..................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH................Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. BROWN........Assistant Managing Editor
H. B. PRICE...........Associate Editor
W. BRANCH...........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW...........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS...........Associate Editor
L. D. WHARTON...........Associate Editor
J. BURKE...........Advertising Manager
A. THOMPSON...........Circulation Manager
J. Y. ALEXANDER...........Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN...........Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER...........Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON...........Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH...........Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
GLADNEY A. Y. BROWN, Sec.-Treas.
A. V. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. CONE
J. M. APPLEBY
J. D. STINSON
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. PROCTOR
J. F. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
E. P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. ODS

EDITORIAL

Next week’s issue of The Davidsonian will be the last to be published under the guidance of the present staff.
The second issue in April will be edited by Fred Smith and his staff. Smith will announce his assistants next
week. We hope the year 1925-26 will not be so stormy financially as the one just closing.

Two weeks from today spring holidays and Junior Speaking commence. Five days of rest from the wear and tear of
the classroom will be welcome indeed. The Juniors have made every preparation for the occasion and a good time is
in store for all.

The Sophs staged their banquet in fine style last Thursday night in the Queen City. They led the cops a
merry chase in front of Keith’s but managed to escape unscathed.

The Davidsonian wishes to extend its thanks to Professor Wachter for the Kipling recital last Friday evening. By means of
it, the last remnant of the three hundred and seventy-five dollar debt has been wiped out. In addition to this
all-important fact, the recital was the best of its kind ever seen and heard at Davidson. Professor Wachter characterized soldiers,
sailors, St. Peter, and the devil with equal success. Possibly the best received of his selections was his rendition of
Masefield’s Cape Horn Gospel. Even the most experienced tobacco chewers on the campus, and their name is legion, were forced
grudgingly to admit that as the old British tar, the Professor could not be beat. Professor Wachter’s interpretation made Kipling’s
poem seem one hundred percent more realistic, and to add to Kipling’s power is genius indeed.

The baseball and track teams both swing into action this week, the baseball team at home on Friday, and the
track team in Blacksburg on Saturday. Both teams may be indicated by N as they are unknown quantities, but these
first engagements will be an indication of their comparative strength.

Only a few more nights of this moonlight and some of you will be getting wedding invitations! When you do,
give according to your means and get according to your meanness. And if you can’t give anything, for the Lord’s
sake, don’t send me an invitation.

Statistician—How many times have we kissed tonight, sweetheart?
Assistant—Twice. You remember when I had to answer the phone?

With the College Editors

MUST THEY BE DRIVEN?

In the old days, before automobiles and aeroplanes, many a man led his horse to water only to see him
refuse to drink. The horse was harming no one but himself, but he must have had a single track mind,
and having once grasped an idea, could not or would not be cajoled into changing.

We would be taking a dangerous step in asserting that we had found an analogous trait in man. Indeed, we
would be unjustified in making any such generalization without making a comprehensive study of humanity. But often, as in the
present instance, one is inevitably led to draw certain conclusions. The other day, while talking with an acquaintance, who happens
to be a college professor, the subject came up as to whether or not college men would study without being
made to do so. Frankly, we must admit that he was pessimistic, and that in a measure, we were compelled
to agree with him.

It must be that the majority of college men do not fully realize why they are in college. If we
were very idealistic we would say that men came to college in search of Truth. Practically speaking, they came to
be developed into good citizens and to increase their own knowledge. Certainly, they do not come, primarily, to learn to
increase their earning capacity; college can never be a life success factory. Success is built on a firm ground, and
not on individual fame. College can, and does, furnish a background, intensifying a man’s sense of appreciation, of service to
society and of its choicest offerings.

Why then must an instructor continually check up on his classes, trying to discover whether or not they are studying?
Here is where we thought to discern a trait of the equus asinus: the crystal waters of the fountain of
knowledge bubble up and slip into their subterranean cavern untasted.

Our major premise is, that in general, the men attending college now are the most intelligent in the country and
will be its future leaders. Our minor premise is that most of the men in college do not realize why
they are in college and hence miss some of its choicest offerings. But we are already too confused to draw
any conclusion and anyway generalizations are always misleading.—The Technique.

PURPOSE

Every student at Alabama has the ambition of a college education or he would not be here. It is a
worthy ambition and a needful one. Horace Greely once advertised for a secretary, and his ‘ad’ ran approximately thus, “WANTED,
Young man to act as a secretary. Must be intelligent and alert. College graduates and other long-eared animals need not
apply.” But those days are gone, no doubt forever. Today a college man is respected and looked up to. It
is expected of him.

WHAT COURSE?

By the middle of April underclassmen must sign up for their courses for the coming year. This should be a
matter for careful thought. It is true there are many conflicts and in a large number of cases it is
impossible to get all the courses which appeal to us. How many “crips” should a boy take? The question which
should guide us is whether the course will be of use to us in the profession which we intend to
pursue. We are not at college merely to pass off a required number of hours and get a diploma. We
are here to prepare ourselves for life—not to get by the easiest possible way. There are few who can look
back over college and know that they took the subjects which would best fit them for their life-work. It is,
however, our duty to eliminate these mistakes as far as possible. It may be that some outside activity claims our
attention, and justly so. But if it is not the best training and that for which we are searching, we
should attempt to change. School work has more value than we are able to realize at the present time. It
is only after the opportunity is past that we realize that it is gone forever. Now is the time to
grasp the opportunity to better fit ourselves for life. If outside activities help, and there is no question but that
they do, engage in them—but not to the utter exclusion of class-work. The course for next year and for life
lies before us. Which are we going to choose?

PRESERVE THE CAMPUS

There is no spot on earth for which we have a deeper affection than the Davidson campus. There we have
worked, played, and enjoyed one, two, or even four years of our life. To us it is more than a
mere plot of ground. It lives with memories and recollections.

Boys are boys. It is a known fact that boys without realizing it hurt those that they love. They thoughtlessly
act and then later repent. Alumni who return see the result of thoughtlessness in the worn spots on the campus.
We will be alumni someday. Think of how we will feel then.him to become a community leader. Yet, although all
the students here have the worthy ambition to graduate, some of them fail and are heard of no more. What
are the causes of these failures that occur? The underlying cause for most failures is not a lack of brains,
but a deficiency of purpose. Anyone with brains enough to get into college has brains enough to get through college.
Admitting that a college education is an education of men as well as books: since the college authorities require a
specified amount of book knowledge to graduate, it behooves us to comply with this requirement. Understand that hundreds of colleges
are graduating thousands each year, and realize how handicapped you would be without a college education. Knowing all this, make
your purpose to graduate and you will succeed.

H. V. D., The Crimson-White.

MATHEMATICS AND DISCIPLINE

We have been wondering for some four years just why Freshman mathematics is at this late date still compulsory. The
excuse for mathematics, we understand, is its disciplinary value; but this is a notion that has long ago been exploded
by modern psychology. One subject is believed about as productive of mental discipline as another. Mathematics has a definite and
legitimate place in the curriculum of every college but its value is rather limited to those students who are going
to make use of it in engineering or the sciences. Latin was formerly entrenched as mathematics, but the insistence on
it for everybody was seen to be useless for students when forced to take Latin regarded it as a mere
task to be gotten out of the way as quickly as possible and with a minimum of cerebration. The same
attitude today prevails with math. Regarded with detestation by the majority of undergraduates, the amount of benefit from the course
must, in the nature of things, be dubious. When done with the required stint of solid geometry, the average student
gives the traditional three leaps for joy and incontinently chucks the book into the river. A passing mark is all
that has been derived from the course. The excuse for geometry is its training in logical thinking. This training is
supposed to carry to other subjects. Psychology has found that the amount of general applicability of a subject is small
unless definitely associated with specific things, a factor which is conspicuously lacking in the present methods of teaching. The only
value of a study is its definite informational content plus a training in specific methods of approach if these methods
are broadly applied and given an ulterior significance. Thus a training in scientific method properly applied will affect one’s general
outlook. As a matter of fact, the training in logical thinking from mathematics is small from the very narrowness of
its application to other fields. A course in scientific method, logic, or economics would be much more useful: at one
university as strongly as the classics, philosophy is bracketed with the subject. Mathematics should be made optional. —Columbia Spectator.

SCHOLARSHIPS

Not long from now a certain Faculty committee will engage upon the difficult task of apportioning the College's scholarship funds;
the troublesome and disheartening business of employing limited sums wisely will require another settlement. And it is in this connection
that Spectator desires to take the liberty of making a suggestion or two. For the subject is one which frequently
undergoes undergraduate discussion. The scholarship, in general, is awarded to the end that various worthy students may receive the benefits
of a college education they otherwise might find impossible to secure. Therefore, it is wise to study exactly how such
emoluments may be granted so that the best result is obtained. For the mere distribution of money among acceptable men
by no means ends the case. To this daily it would seem bad policy to issue many small scholarships rather
than a smaller number of ones of larger totals. If a Columbia man is to get the maximum of development
from his residence on Morningside Heights, he should not be in such financial condition that he must struggle for food
and board until classes are the only elements of college routine left him. He should not be forced to cast
aside completely activities, associations, time for thorough and leisured study—all that sets higher education apart from glorified grammar schoolism. In
a word, college life is not worth the exhaustion of time and energy if it is not a college existence
generous and beneficial. Far better would it be to award ten adequate scholarships than fifteen which keep their holders just
above the water line. Far better would it be for Columbia College to have ten undergraduates able to add to
its reputation (and increase their individual development) than fifteen students always on the verge of leaving the campus because of
monetary deficiencies. It is wrong to limit the College’s achievements by permitting too large an attendance of those without funds
to sustain the burden of such life. Similarly, it is wrong to dilute the value of this experience by giving
scholarships which permit their holders opportunities in reality cruelly curtailed. —Columbia Spectator.

AIN’T NATURE GRAND?

Some love-sick and romantic poet once remarked, as he dusted an over-abundance of decidedly feminine powder from the lapel of
his Finchley model lapel—“In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” And the youthful and
exuberant bard wasn’t so far off the right track after all. As soon as the snows begin to disappear, as
soon as the robins and the wrens, and the jaybirds commence to vie with each other in the treetops, yea,
as soon as spring elections begin to run—some young Romeo takes out the old guitar from its dusty case, and
begins to fill the air with unmistakable notes of adoration. This is the first sure sign that spring has come—that
June, with all the brides and new straw hats, is just over the horizon. Even the spirited college guys catch
the love-fever; and begin to gambol on the green—or if there is no green, they gamble just the same. Books
and professors are forgotten, Greek and Latin are abandoned, as the love-sickened fanatics skip to and fro, wrapped in the
newest thing in spring slip-over sweaters and thoughts of “her.” And then those weekend parties and Junior Speaking. A bright
moon (oh the wonders of “moonshine”) and little vine-covered stones beneath the ancient portals of Old Chambers; and a Dunhill
pipe, casting its reddened glow over the face of an admiring lover; and above all else one of those girls
“that you just know wears ’em.” These are the materials—and the product, simply an hour or so of uninterrupted and
unsurpassed pleasure, as our Hero, holding our Heroine in his vice-like grip (which he has just learned in his course
with Atlas) whispers pretty nothings into her newly-powdered auditory organs. And she responds, (you see, she’s just graduated in a
course on “How to win a lover") and as he tightens his half-nelson about her lithe and dainty waist, she
lifts her face towards his, lips half-parted in expectancy, and snugs in his arms. He leans his mouth quivering just
above her ruby-red lips (he has removed the pipe, of course)—and with a sudden, yet gentle, effort he braces himself
for the attack. Her eyes, burning with that element, defined by old Noah Webster as “the state of being acted
upon, subjection to an external agent or influence; a passive condition”—or as our more modern and precise lexicographers would term
it “passion,” open and close with the slowness of a rusty gate. He doesn’t seem to notice this—that is, if
he is acquainted with Lesson No. 9 of the “Twenty Wonderful Lessons in Love-making for One Dollar.” But, he draws
her nearer and nearer to himself. Soon their bodies, inter-wrapped with one another, become as one—and developments come fast. The
air is still with the musty odor of new plastering, and they are surrounded with a beautiful mass of building
materials. Suddenly she screams—he jumps away, as if suddenly awakened from a stupor. He adjusts his coat, she adjusts her
hair (which has fallen from beneath an Oneida hair-net)—and the date is over. Ain't nature wonderful! All of which reminds
us of the various stages through which true love is carried. Being full of spring atmosphere (hot air), we have
thrown it into verse. Here goes—

Love is an Evolution they say. Anyway, here’s the way it goes:

Grade School—
Roses ith red,
Violets ith blue.
Sugar ith thweet,
And tho—ith—ooo.

High School—
Chrysanthemums are beautiful
And so is marmalade:
Without you, darling Gwendolyn,
My life’s a night shade.

College—
The moon silver sheathed,
As you, my golden symphony.
’Tis you I crave,
My agonizing ecstasy!

Ten Years Wed—
I have a knife,
Its blade is true,
For 30 cents
I'd murder you!

All students are hereby requested to purchase straw hats with red bands during the holidays.
