FOR TWO YEARS ADJUDGED THE BEST COLLEGE NEWSPAPER IN NORTH CAROLINA

THEDAVINIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., SEPTEMBER 24, 1925 No. 2

Davidson Wofford Terriers Will Battle Davidson Eleven on Saturday Afternoon

Davidson Won From Wofford Last Season by Single Touchdown

PROBABLE LINE-UPS

Terriers Have Practically the Same Team That Was Seen Here Last Year

On Saturday, September 26, the football team of Wofford College will invade Richardson Field. This team is one well calculated to give the Wildcats a scrap, Wofford stock having taken a big jump when they held V. M. I. to a 9 to 0 score. Wofford presents practically the same team that they had last year and with the weight and experience which they have obtained in that time they should have a well-balanced team. For the Terriers, Knotts, Wright, and Habel seem to be the men to whom the ‘Cats should give attention, these men playing excellent football last Saturday.

The Wildcats, though much upset by the untimely injury to Sappenfield, will be in there with the fight necessary to win with Hendrix as Coach Younger’s choice for quarterback. As shown in the Elon game, the Davidson men are in excellent condition and as the season advances should prove a menace to any pre-season championship hopes. The exceptional showing of Dick Grey has greatly heartened the coaches, and with Overton playing as he did against Elon, the backfield worries should be greatly decreased with the exception of the quarterback position.

It will be remembered that last year Davidson defeated Wofford by a single touchdown, the score coming after a blocked punt. With both teams greatly improved a great game is in prospect. The teams will probably line up as follows:

Pinkney
Mackston
Laird
Knotts (G)

(Continued from page 3)

Charlotte Pastor Talks at “Y” Vesper Services

Confessions of a Young Man is Theme Chosen by Dr. Albert Johnson

A large crowd of students and members of the faculty assembled in Shearer Hall, at 6:15 last Sunday evening, for the second Y. M. C. A. vesper service of the year, at which Dr. Albert Sidney Johnson, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charlotte, was the principal speaker. Doctor Johnson delivered in a clear and eloquent manner a very helpful and timely address. The subject was “The Confession of a Young Man,” the entire talk being based on the words of Paul found in Acts 24:14, “But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and the prophets.” Doctor Johnson talked straight from the shoulder, making his main point that every young man should have a positive faith and that this should be in Jesus Christ. In putting this across to the students the speaker used numerous illustrations effectively.

A young man without faith is like a derelict tossed about on the seas, being itself in danger and endangering others, Doctor Johnson said in his opening remarks. Men ad-

(Continued on page 7)

Local Lecturers Please Students With Vivid Tales

Doctor Martin, in introducing Mr. J. McDowell Richards as the first speaker at the opening lectures of this year’s series in Shearer Hall, stated that in listening first to the local talent the students and people of Davidson were being treated to the “cream of the lecture course.” Mr. Richards, an alumnus of Davidson with the class of '22 and soon to leave for England, where he will take his third year of work as Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, based his talk upon the features of Oxford student life. Dr. C. R. Harding, second speaker of the evening, spoke of his experiences in Greece during the three months he spent studying the architecture, art, archaeology, and history of that country the past summer.

“The Oxford spirit,” said Mr. Richards, “defies description. It has been the theme of poets of great reputation through many generations, but as yet it has never been adequately described. The old school smiles from its pinnacle at the conceit of the young men entering its walls for the first time. A large number of these students attain success. A still larger number pass to oblivion.” According to Mr. Richards the exact date of Oxford's founding is unknown. Some

(Continued on page 8)

Fall Tennis Tournament Will Open Next Monday

Entrants for Tournament Must Register With McCutcheon This Week

The annual fall tennis tournament will commence on Monday, September 28. The men who desire to enter this tournament must give in their names to L. McCutcheon this week in order that they may be given an entry on the tournament schedule. The schedule for the fall contest is being arranged by McCutcheon and a few other prominent men in tennis at the college. L. McCutcheon is this year’s tennis captain, being elected as such last spring after playing brilliantly during the tennis season. He urges all men who are planning to enter the tournament to practice as much as possible during this week in order that they may be in good trim when the tournament begins next week. The courts are being worked on and put in good shape; every effort is being made to ensure they are in the best possible condition by next week. In addition to the repairing of the courts, four new nets have been purchased for use in the tournament. This is an excellent movement, as the old nets were very badly worn.

Of the varsity team last year, only L. McCutcheon remains. He was a member of the doubles team which defeated the University of North Carolina last spring for the doubles championship of the State. Harry Price was his partner, who himself won the singles championship for the preceding year at the State tournament. All the members of last year’s Freshman team are back in college, and it is probable that each will enter the tournament. The tournament victors will probably be from among these players, several Seniors who are in excellent shape, and perhaps from a few “dark horses.” Of course Captain McCutcheon is expected to make his berth, although there seems to be no absolute certainty of even that. An extensive spring trip will be arranged for the varsity team, which shall include

(Continued on page 6)

Wildcats Win Overwhelming Victory

NICK SAPPENFIELD

Plucky quarterback on the Wildcat Eleven and President of the Student Body, who was injured in last Saturday’s game. His injuries will keep him from playing again this season.

Two Fraternities Move Into Home Outside of College Boundaries

Sigma Alpha Epsilon and Phi Gam Occupy First of New Fraternity Homes

Two of the fraternities at Davidson have just realized a goal that is set by practically all of the leading frats in the larger colleges of the country. The Phi Gamma Delta and the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternities moved into houses out in town at the beginning of this school year. This step is merely in line with a progressive movement that is taking place all over the country. At a meeting of the Trustees of Davidson last winter it was decided that houses would be allowed and at that time steps were taken by these and others to move into such quarters as soon as possible.The Phi Gams are now occupying the White House on the hill south of the college and across the street from the Davidson High School. Up until the opening of school this year, they had had rooms in the Phi Hall since 1918. Mrs. Olin White is the house mother for this group. The Phi Gams sus- (Continued on page 6)

RHODES SCHOLARSHIP

Attention of the alumni is called to the fact that the Rhodes Scholars will be selected this fall to represent the following states among others: North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, West Virginia, Florida, Kentucky, Louisiana, and Tennessee. The applicant must have been born after October 1, 1901, and before October 1, 1907. Alumni who are interested are requested to send in their names to Dr. Lingle at once.

Davidson Writer Wins Praise for Literary Effort

It will be of interest to students here, especially to those of the present Junior class, to know that James H. Caligan, of the class of '27, has been accorded honorable mention in the list of names included in the “Stratford Anthology of College Verse" of this year, for his poem, “Biopsis,” which appeared in the magazine of the University of South Carolina, where Caligan was a student last year. The Stratford Company also gave honorable mention in their volume of “The Best College Short Stories” to Caligan’s story, “With the East Wind,” which appeared in the Davidson College Magazine during his first year at Davidson.

“Biopsis,” the poem to which honorable mention was given in this year’s Anthology, was accorded first honorable mention by the Poetry Society of South Carolina in the annual contest for the best poem submitted by a college student of that state. Caligan was one of the most prolific writers on the University campus last year, and of late he has contributed to several magazines and periodicals of merit. Caligan is again back at Davidson this fall. He entered as a Freshman in the class of '27 and was elected class poet. He was outstanding in literary work, being a student above par in English.

Announcement of Lyceum Numbers

Loseff’s Russian Quartet Will Appear in Native Costume on Shearer Hall Stage

The Junior Speaking committee of the class of '27 announces the coming of the first Lyceum number, a series of four, on Tuesday, October 20. Loseff's Russian Quartet, instead of concluding the series, as announced in the last issue of The Davidsonian, will present the first number as a program of “Music Supreme.” The quartet, composed of two men and two women, will appear in their native Russian costume, which will make the platform effect striking. All of them are true artists with pronounced individuality and together they form a galaxy of musical stars rarely grouped for such entertainment. To be appreciated they should be heard.

The speaking committee in its splendid work is killing two birds with one stone. First, its main object is making a success of the Junior Speaking; second, it is bringing to Davidson Lyceum. Both are related in that they furnish excellent entertainment for the student body, but the thing that concerns them at present is their financial possibilities. The success of the first determines the success of the second. The Junior committee, in an earnest endeavor, backed by the spirit and vim of the Junior class, have pushed the sales of season tickets until a total of $300 has been recorded. The committee, this week, will reopen the campaign with new vigor. As previously announced, the season tickets are sold for $1.50. Single performance tickets will cost $2.00 or 50 cents each. Thus the purchase of a season ticket will save 50 cents. Season tickets will be on sale by the Junior committee till the coming first number of the Lyceum.

The Fresh schedule sounds like some interesting games to us. Five big games to be played, and it may be that High Point College may be a sixth one. That is something of an unknown quantity now.

Large Crowd Sees Elon Christians Bow Before Onslaught of Wildcats

Broiling Sunshine Followed by Showers Fails to Slow up Teams

SAPPENFIELD INJURED

Plucky Davidson Quarterback Suffers Severe Injuries in Opening Period of Game

A thirty-four to nothing Wildcat victory sent Elon’s hopes of an initial win over Davidson glimmering for another year as the two teams battled Saturday on Richardson Field. But the hopes of Elon were not the only thing that was smashed up in that first eventful quarter, for Davidson suffered heavily in the loss of Nick Sappenfield, varsity quarter, by a broken bone. Playing under a broiling sun that would have played havoc with heavier teams, the two squads opened the 1925 football season for North Carolina with no other accidents. Sappenfield had his team going at a fast pace for an opening game, and had just entered the sacred 10-yard zone for the third time when he was tackled, falling upon his leg in a way that fractured both the bones. He was carrying the ball, having just made four yards through Elon’s left tackle. Coach Younger, who just a few seconds before had prepared an entirely new team for entrance into the game, sent in Hewlett, who ran the team well, besides getting off for several neat runs over the Elon tackles. Later in the game Jim Hendrix went in, and from the way he marshalled his team for a march down the field for 57 yards in the third quarter, it seems that he will do more work at that position this season.

The thrilling play that so often comes with the kick-off, denied to the spectators the past season by changes in the rules, was restored again, and Dick Grey took advantage of it to race back the opening kick for 52 yards. Grey proved to be the find of the game. After years of dashing play on the local high eleven, and the captaincy of the Fresh team last fall, Dick had almost passed out of the (Continued on page 7)

Mutt Nisbet Unanimously Chosen Leader of Sophs

Hugh Arrowood is Elected Vice-President from Field of Three Candidates—Close Race

At a meeting of the Sophomore class last week “Mutt” Nisbet, of Charlotte, was elected president for the coming year. Nisbet was elected unanimously from the position of vice-president to fill the vacancy left by the failure of Robert McMillan to return to school. McMillan was chosen to lead the class for the coming year before the close of school last spring. Hugh Arrowood won over Dick Grey in a runover election for the position of vice-president. Arrowood, Grey and “Dutch” Wearn were nominated and since none of the candidates had a majority another ballot was run between the two receiving the highest number of votes.

Both Nisbet and Arrowood occupy high places on the campus, and are capably fitted to fill the places to which they have been elected. Nisbet was a member of the Wildkitten eleven last fall, and is making a strong bid for a varsity berth this year. He was also a member of the Fresh track team last year, showing up well in all the events in which he was entered. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity.