THANKS GIVING Vol. XIII NUMBER SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., NOVEMBER 26, 1925 No. 11

Closely Contested Game Between Duke Blue Devils and Wildcats Promises to Supply Thrills Thanksgiving Fans

Win Over Wofford Puts Confidence in Duke Team

CALDWELL INJURED

Large Crowd Expected to Witness Annual Thanksgiving Battle Here Between Old Rivals

With the state championship cup safely deposited in the hands of a third party, the Blue Devils and Wildcats will
today enact the final scene in an eventful season of “Big Five” football history of North Carolina. With no first
stake, with honors at no colorful rivalry reaching back into other centuries, still the third consecutive Thanksgiving Day meeting of
the two teams promises to be one of the grandest fights ever staged upon Richardson Field, historic under another name
as the scene of thrilling dramas in football circles.

Across the western skies of North State gridiron circles a star gleamed in the Davidson camp; under the watchful hand
of Coach Younger it rose to dizzy heights; under an ironic fate it fell before an admiring crowd on Emerson
Field some twelve days ago. Never so brilliantly had it flashed. Across the eastern skies another star has risen, though
late, it was rising. Under Coach Herron the Duke eleven wandered ingloriously through a season of disappointments only to find
itself in the Wofford game of the preceding week. In its rise it seems to have been pointed toward the
Davidson game.

It is said of Harvard and Yale that it matters not how few their victories, how overwhelming their defeats, a
win over the other in the final game made the season successful. Such is also true of the Army-Navy game.
Such is so of many. And it matters not how seldom the Methodists have been rejoicing this year, a win
over the Wildcats today will bring gladness to (Continued on page 8)

Initiated Into Alpha Phi Epsilon

Eddington, Covington, and Branch Become Members of Leading Forensic Fraternity

Last Friday night three new members were initiated into the Phi Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon. This is an honorary
fraternity of national standing founded with the purpose of giving recognition to those men who show themselves efficient in forensic
work. The new members are G. M. Eddington, of the Senior class, and W. T. Covington, Jr., and W. H.
Branch, Jr., of the Junior class. All of these men have demonstrated their ability in the literary work of Davidson.
G. M. Eddington is president of the Pandemic Society and a representative of that society on the Junior-Senior debating team.
W. T. Covington is a member of the Metrophilian Society and is also a member of the Junior-Senior debating team.
W. H. Branch has served in the Eumenean Society with excellence and has shown much interest in Inter-Collegiate debating, serving
as alternate and manager in the Wake Forest debate last spring.

The Phi Chapter of Alpha Phi Epsilon was established at Davidson in the spring of 1923. Each year it elects
into membership those members of the student body who have proved their ability in forensic endeavor. In the student body
are A. Y. Bowie, R. B. Shaw, W. M. Gracey, D. H. Stewart, L. D. Parker, E. T. Pullen, B.
U. Ratchford, H. L.

Monogram Club to Sponsor Rendition of Kipling Poems

“Provide a Suitable Home for the Wildcat and Pay For His Meals.” This is the slogan which animates the “D”
Club in arranging a Kipling recital by Prof. Wachter in Shearer Hall, Tuesday evening, December 1, at 8:00 o'clock. This
is a slogan which ought to and no doubt will inspire the students to attend the recital to a man.
The Wildcat belongs to the students of Davidson. He represents the Wildcat spirit. Every student is proud to be called
a Wildcat himself and he will consider it not only a duty but a privilege to contribute his share to
the sum necessary to provide for His Majesty in a fitting and proper way.

But there is an equally compelling attraction in the opportunity to spend an evening with Rudyard Kipling and to listen
to his red-blooded poetry read by one who is considered Kipling’s foremost interpreter. Without calling in the testimony of critics
from all parts of the country as to the supremacy of Professor Wachter's platform readings of Kipling’s poetry, the students
of Davidson may be reminded of the comments which appeared in The Davidsonian following Professor Wachter’s recital last spring, by
means of which The Davidsonian was enabled to wipe out a debt of a hundred dollars. The following is a
quotation from an account of the recital taken from the March 26th issue: “Too much cannot be said as to
the perfection and delightfulness of Professor Wachter’s impersonations. One (Continued on page 6)

Phi Beta Kappa to Initiate Nine Men

Nine prominent alumni of Davidson College from various classes ranging from the class of 1875 to the class of 1911,
have been elected into membership of Phi Beta Kappa, the national scholarship fraternity, by the local chapter. These men made
exceptionally high scholastic averages while students here and since then have been engaged in the professions of the ministry and
teaching. The following are the men who have been honored: Dr. Alex. Sprunt, ’75, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church,
Charleston, S. C.; Dr. A. M. Fraser, '76, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Staunton, Va.; Dr. B. F. Wilson,
'84, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Harrisonburg, Va.; Dr. R. F. Kirkpatrick, '97, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church,
Anderson, S. C.; Mr. H. H. Caldwell, ‘03, Registrar of the Georgia School of Technology; Prof. W. C. Rose, '97,
professor of Chemistry in the University of Illinois, Urbana, Ill.; Prof. H. L. Moore, '08, professor in the Carnegie School
of Technology; Prof. K. J. Foreman, ‘11, professor of Bible and Philosophy in Davidson College; and Prof. C. R. Wilcox,
‘11, president of the Darlington School, Rome, Ga.

The initiation ceremonies will be held at 7:00 o'clock in the evening on December 4, at which time both the
alumni and the students who have been recently elected will be taken into the fraternity. Dr. Howard Mack, a member
of the faculty of the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., has been secured to make the address at 8:00 o'clock.
Dr. Mack is an alumnus of Davidson and has talked before the students at various times.

GREETINGS

Fellows, meet FELIX! After much head scratching and earnest solicitations, the staff of The Davidsonian banded together in an eleventh-hour
meeting to bestow a name upon the college mascot. FELIX is the result. An old cat with a new name.
Step right up and call him FELIX, fellows, he's a regular Wildcat. Fellows, meet FELIX!

Dr. Swann Lectures On Social Hygiene Before Student-Body Audience

Representative of Social Hygiene Association Speaks Three Times

SPECIAL MOVIE

Students Pack Shearer Hall to Hear Noted Physician Lecture on Social Relations

Dr. Eugene L. Swann, noted speaker for the American Social Hygiene Association, spoke twice before the Davidson student body last
week. In addition to these talks, Dr. Swann presented his now famous moving picture, “The Gift of Life.” Dr. Swann
was sent to Davidson by the American Social Hygiene Association, which is one of the Rockefeller Foundation projects. The New
York City, Howard University, graduate physician, author, and lecturer is considered one of the foremost authorities on this subject. He
has visited the University of Kentucky, the University of North Carolina, N.C. State, and Washington and Lee. From Davidson he
is going to Furman, then to Presbyterian College of South Carolina. It will be remembered by the upper classmen that
Dr. Swann lectured at Davidson last year. He is the owner and director of Pine Island Camp, in the Maine
woods, on the Belgrade Lakes, near the Canadian border.

Dr. Swann first spoke to the student body at chapel Friday morning. His subject, which was “Life,” not only in
the spelling of it, but also as it works out in our everyday associations. In discussing his subject, he showed
how life is half of life. Due to the fact that the chapel period was short, he was able to
discuss only briefly this subject. He devoted most of his time toshow how marriage is the union of two personalities
rather than any sentimental pettiness. His advice was that before marriage, one should make a detailed examination of his own
self, his likes and dislikes, comparing his outstanding characteristics with those of his prospective wife. He said that if there
were not mutual interests, the union would not be successful.

Friday night, Dr. Swann was greeted by the largest audience that had voluntarily attended a lecture in Shearer Hall this
year. The speaker stressed the importance of making married life happy. He showed how, in our twentieth century, many homes
are broken up and many lives are wrecked every year on account of unhappy marriages. “It is appalling,” stated Dr.
Swann, “the large number of men and women who dissipate their assets before a public divorce court.” He pointed out
that the great majority of children who are in reform schools in the country were there on account of unhappy
home life. Practically all of the street waifs are the direct result of a wrecked home, he said. In most
of these cases, the underlying cause of this failure was due to interests that were not mutual between father and
mother.

“The Gift of Life,” the title of the Association’s picture that Dr. Swann represents, was shown in the gym Saturday
night. This cause was due to interests that were not mutual between father and mother.

Election of Harry Vance to Presidency of Athletic Association Marks Climax In Bright Career of Versatile Athlete

Turkey to Eat or Chickens to Meet Today’s Problem

“Turkey Day,” or “Chicken Day,” that is the question! Some of the “Knights of Intelligence” are even advocating both. “Since
we are so fortunate as to be granted a holiday,” they’re saying, “why not have your ‘Chicken’ up to help
you enjoy your turkey; for what’s Thanksgiving without a turkey? And what’s a turkey without a ‘Chicken’ to help you
enjoy it? Or, better still, to help you forget the remorse that comes to you after all the turkey is
gone?”

Upon asking the opinions of the various welfare organizations on the hill, the interviewer was informed that the “El Betas
Mu” fraternity had voted unanimously in favor of both, and as a result, several of its more passive members are
on the want list. All “Chickens” who lack a coup will doubtless be interested in reading the ad of Alf
Robinson in his home paper, “The Weakly Struggle.” The Greek letter society for the promotion of better etiquette, Alpha Eta
Pi, after a protracted argument, voted with a conclusive majority in favor of “Chicken Day.” The society highly recommended a
combination of the two features, but it was the opinion of some of the whole-wits that if only one feature
was allowed for the day, “Chickens” would be preferred to turkeys. The society was then divided into factions and a
heated debate followed. Ben Franklin, representing the Conservatives, pleaded with tears in his eyes for a Turkey Day. “The goal
award which I have striven for these long years,” (Continued on page 5)

Hangchow College Drive Starts Soon

The drive for Hangchow College, which has been made in the spring for the past two years, will come on
Tuesday and Wednesday nights, the 8th and 9th of December, this year, according to a recent announcement made by H.
L. Shaw, who has charge of this part of the Y. M. C. A. work. Shaw is the head of
a committee of five, the other members being A. M. Hillhouse, secretary of the “Y”; Willard Keerans, E. D. Witherspoon,
and 25 or more students who will help them in seeing each man on the campus about his subscriptions to
this fund. The students of Davidson two years ago sent a Davidson graduate, Cox, from Mobile, Ala., to Hangchow College
as a professor of chemistry. Cox was to stay three years and the coming year will be his last. The
Y. M. C. A. during the college year makes just one call on the students for money and this is
for the support of this Davidson man in the mission fields. The students have always responded cheerfully and generously and
last year the subscriptions were over the goal set. The next drive is being made in December, so that the
pledges can be paid before the students leave for home in the spring.

Hangchow College, which has been called “The Davidson of China,” is chartered by the District of Columbia under a Board
of Trustees representing equally the two Presbyterian Churches of the United States. It is located in the suburbs of the
city of Hangchow, which is one of the most famous cities of China for its beauty. It has also been
a center of education and art. The following paragraph is quoted from a bulletin sent out from the college: “About
200 men have come from this institution as (Continued on page 7)

Vance is One of Davidson’s Leading Athletes

TO SUCCEED BAKER

Race is Hotly Contested and Requires Three Ballots to Select New President

Harry Vance, one of the outstanding athletes at Davidson, was elected president of the Athletic Association at a meeting of
that body last week. Vance was one of the 12 men nominated, three ballots being necessary to determine the choice
of the president. The new president has been one of the leading lights in the sport life of the campus
since his freshman year, when, as a member of the first freshman team that Davidson had, he played brilliantly in
the Wildkitten line. The 12 men nominated, all Seniors who are letter men, were: Barrington, Cox, Laird, Vance, Wells, Alford,
Anderson, McComb, Kugler, Oden, and Williford. On the first ballot, three men, Laird, Vance, and Anderson, had an outstanding lead
over the field and they were selected to remain in the race. The second vote showed that Laird and Vance
were leading, with Anderson trailing, and a third ballot was taken to name the winner. Vance led Laird by 12
votes on the last vote. The election this time was necessary to fill the unexpired term of Tom Baker, who
was elected president last year by the student body to fill the unexpired term of Nick Sappentield, who, due to
injuries received in one of the early football games, was forced to drop out of school.

Besides winning South-wide fame on the gridiron, Vance has won letters in two other branches of sport, baseball and wrestling.
Last year he was one of the best linemen in all of the State, being placed on the State team
picked by the leading sports writers of the State. (Continued on page 5)

Juniors Complete Plans For Yearly Publication

“Sanity Rare” is Chosen for Title of Magazine Again This Year

Both the literary and business staffs have begun work on the Junior Speaking Magazine, which will be edited by the
class of '27 for the annual Junior Speaking event which comes during the Easter holidays. The editorial board for the
magazine includes Warren H. Calligan, Don Wharton, P. A. Warren, C. W. Williams, and A. H. Hollingsworth. The business manager
is Clanton Williams. The magazine will not be divided into departmental heads as usual, but will include one-line witticisms, jokes,
cartoons, poems, and brief humorous stories, with other such features as are found in the more popular humorous magazines.

It was recommended that the publication bear the same name as the one of last year, “Sanity Rare,” and at
a meeting of the Board of Editors, held on Monday evening, it was decided that the magazine for this year
should bear this title. There will be an increase in size for this year over the past years, but the
magazine will be edited along the same general lines. It must be submitted to the faculty for inspection as usual,
and the faculty supervisors will be selected within the next few weeks. Kenneth Harris, who is now studying art in
the Chicago School of Art, will contribute several drawings to the magazine. Kenneth was a member of the class of
'27 prior to (Continued on page 6)
