THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1925

WILDCATS

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. D. LAW

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW
---AT THE---
VICTORY

Did You Know

That Woodrow Wilson left Davidson College after his Freshman year on account of ill health.

That Woodrow Wilson owned an enlarged picture of the Davidson College campus given him by J. P. Bell Company, of
Lynchburg, Va.

That through the kindness of Senator Overman, President W. J. Martin made a visit to President Woodrow Wilson in 1914.
Educational matters were discussed.

That the present used constitution of the student government was drawn up in 1914 by A. Scarborough, then president of
the student body, assisted by Associate Justice Frazier, of the South Carolina Supreme Court.

That the Davidson College golf course

‘Excellent Speaker for Sunday Night Vespers

‘Glasgow, Prominent Charlotte Business Man, to Speak—Has Good Representation Here

Tom Glasgow, a Charlotte business man, will speak at the Y. M. C. A. vespers on Sunday afternoon. All of
the old men will remember his talk last year which was on the question of Personal Faith, and none of
them will miss this one. The new ones can ask the old ones as to the benefits which were derived
from last year’s talk.

Mr. Glasgow graduated from Washington and Lee in the class of 1916. He is a member of the Omicron Delta
honorary fraternity, was an athlete, and was president of the Y. M. C. A. when in college. He has always
shown an active interest in religious work, and has been a leader in men’s church work for many years. He
was a recent visitor on the hill with Dr. Oren Moore, who spoke two weeks ago. He has brought a
message to the Davidson men each year for some time, and has made a record of having always had something
of importance to say to the men. He has another message to bring to the fellows this year, and everyone
who knows the speaker will readily state the necessity of every man

Literary Societies

Eumenean

The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting Thursday evening at 7:30 p.m. Following a short Scripture reading by President
Barr, a declamation was delivered by D. H. Howard. Current events were then discussed by C. A. Ohsick. Next followed
a very good debate on the query: Resolved: “That there should be a Federal Department of Aeronautics.” The affirmative was
taken by F. D. Daniel and J. R. McCravey; the negative by W. H. Lynch and C. F. Smith. The
decision was rendered in favor of the affirmative, 3-0.

The business of the society was then taken up. The committee which was appointed for the revision of the constitution
gave its report. It was decided to lay the matter on the table until the October 23rd meeting at which
time a vote will be taken. The following members were appointed by the president to compose the Attendance Committee: C.
F. Smith, F. D. Daniel, and J. R. McCravey. There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned.

SELLERS Kitchen Cabinet
the best servant you can put in your Kitchen.
SOLD IN STATESVILLE BY
Nicholson Furniture Co.

That intercollegiate debating was begun at Davidson in 1909.

That immediately after the construction of the old Chambers building in 18—, Davidson College was considered the wealthiest eleemosynary institution
south of Princeton University.

That Morrison Hall (the Armory) was erected in 1890 and the lower floor was used for a gym until the
erection of the gym.

That in 1914 W. A. Dumas, with a flashlight in his hand and a rope around his body, was lowered
into the base of the southern column of the Chambers building and that he found a human skull. The much-talked-of
skeleton was not found.

That in 1914 Brenau College accepted cotton at 10 cents a pound in payment of tuition and that the girls
at Brenau passed a resolution that throughout the college year they would wear only dresses and hose made of cotton.
This was in corroboration with the buy-a-bale movement.

That 45 Juniors spoke at the Junior oratorical exercises in the spring of 1914.

That on April 21, 1914, the Davidson baseball team, though in bad condition, defeated the University of Georgia team 9
to 4. Hengeveld's batting was the main attraction.

That military training was begun at Davidson in October, 1917, when wooden guns were received from New York.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION
We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest
Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

Olympia.Hearing him on Sunday evening.

Three Seniors Are Elected by I.R.C.

The following men were elected to membership in the International Relations Club last Friday night: G. M. Eddington, W. H.
Allison, F. T. Franklin. These men stand high not only in their classes but also in the estimation of their
fellow students as is shown by their membership in many other honorary organizations of the campus. The topic for discussion
Friday night was “Greece,” and the principal talk on this subject was given by Dr. Richard Harding. He gave a
most interesting and instructive talk on his trip to Greece last summer, giving particular attention to the numerous objects of
old Grecian sculpture and architecture which he had the good fortune to see. By means of his wonderful flow of
classical language, Dr. Harding was enabled to give a very fitting and beautiful description of the “Hermes” of Praxiteles which
is now at Olympia. This exquisite piece of sculpture remains in almost perfect preservation after being buried for centuries in
the ruins at Olympia. It is one of the only two pieces which are known to be the authentic work
of one of the old Greek masters. Dr. Harding also gave some interesting remarks on modern Greek life.

Room in Concord to Honorary Frat

The college has given the honorary fraternity council room in Concord building, which was formerly occupied by the Sigma Delta
fraternity, to be used as a meeting place for all honorary fraternities belonging to the council. This hall will be
taken over at once and the various honorary fraternities will begin meeting here within the next month. Furnishings will probably
be supplied by the council. A schedule has been arranged so that there will be no conflicting hours of meeting
between the different organizations.

Metrophilian

The regular meeting of the Metrophilian Literary Society was held last Tuesday at Phi Hall, with President Parker in the
chair. The discussion for the evening had been looked forward to for some time, as it was a question of
vital importance to every Davidson man. The subject was “Resolved: That compulsory church-attendance be abolished at Davidson.” B. Martin and
M. J. Lyerly were the speakers for the affirmative, while D. H. Steward and W. K. Forbes took the negative
side. Lyerly was the most able speaker of the evening, having good points and getting them over in a forceful
manner. His work did much to win for his side. This was the most heated debate that has been held
on the Hill for a long time. After the debate, a general discussion took place, which for the most part
favored the affirmative. The decision of the judges was 3 to 0 in favor of the affirmative. At the next
meeting, election of officers will be held, and all members are urged to be present.

Philanthropic

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held last Thursday at 7:30 with the largest attendance of forty-two.
The program was one of the most interesting of the year, the right and wrong of the current aeronautic controversy
being thoroughly discussed. J. W. Williford and Wm. Phifer supported the affirmative side of the question: “Resolved, that there should
be a federal bureau of aeronautics;” while Herbert Worzel and R. B. Walters argued on the negative side. The declaimer
of the evening was B. F. Brown, and (Continued on page 8)

YELLOW CAB CO. QUALITY and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

FELLOWS

We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time The New York Cafe Charlotte, N. C.
PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24 Charlotte, N. C.

SERVICE

We can show you a complete line of The Premiere Cleaner and Presser OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE CITY PRESSING
CLUB Davidson, N. C.

The honorary fraternities of Davidson have had nothing of the kind previously; the meetings heretofore being held in classrooms or
social fraternity halls. It is thought that this change will be a great help in many ways to these organizations.

SWEATERS, TROUSERS, HATS AND SHOES

Miss Orrie Steele spent the weekend in Winston-Salem with Mrs. Lola Johnston, a former resident of Davidson.

Just received; a new fall shipment of Manhattan Shirts and Pajamas.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go In
College Display Room every Friday 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M. Harrison Clothing Co. Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

Mr. and Mrs. C. F. Groover, of Jacksonville, Fla., spent Tuesday with Dr. and Mrs. A. R. Matheson.

The Civic Club gave a reception on Tuesday night in honor of the teachers of the city graded school.

The Thelemites Book Club met on Friday last with Mrs. W. W. Wood. The principal papers were given by Mrs.
J. W. MacConnell and Miss Steele.
