Vol. XIII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., NOVEMBER 19, 1925 No. 10

COLLEGE EDITORS VOTE FOR FREEDOM OF PRESS AT CAROLINA CONCLAVE

E. G. Moore of North Carolina College Flays Practice of Strict Faculty Supervision and Urges Leniency in Regulations

An address on the subject Freedom of the College Press, by E. G. Moore, president of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association, featured the three-day convention of the association, which closed at Chapel Hill last Saturday afternoon. Lamenting too stringent supervision and regulation of student publications by the faculties of North Carolina colleges, Mr. Moore openly flayed the policy of placing faculty limitations on the handling of news and stories by the college editors.

He was quick to assure his audience that he did not favor the type of radical propaganda that was being carried in the columns of many of the college newspapers published in the East, but he did sponsor a more lenient consideration by the faculties of many of the North Carolina institutions. He pointed out numerous examples of the disastrous effect of faculty supervision and regulation and urged a movement to secure freedom for college editors.

Following his very forceful address, the delegates adopted a resolution appealing to the college officials, and beg- (Continued on page 3)

Automobile Accident is Fatal to Frank Hudson

Hudson is Killed as Car Overturns Near Chapel Hill—Students Mourn

Frank Hudson, popular member of the Senior class, was killed instantly last Friday night when an automobile in which he was riding with several of his fellow students, overturned eight miles south of Chapel Hill and was completely demolished. Frank and his companions were en route to Chapel Hill to witness the annual Davidson-Carolina football game, which was played there on Saturday afternoon, and had almost completed their journey when the fatal accident occurred.

For more than four hours the students had driven through a heavy mist, hoping to reach Chapel Hill early in the evening. Continuous showers had left the roads in a wet and slippery condition, and it is generally believed that the damp mist was instrumental in causing the mishap. Attempting to save time, the students had left the paved highway just out of Hillsboro, and were traveling across a narrow dirt road when the accident occurred.

As the car rounded a curve on the unfamiliar road, the front wheels slipped over a culvert causing the car to tilt sharply to the right. The driver attempted to turn the car back into the road, but the effect only tended to make the car sway more, and when the wheels ran into a small drain, the car overturned completely. Frank was seated on the front seat, near the door, and when the car capsized, he was caught beneath the seat and the ground. His neck was broken, and death resulted instantly. All the occupants of the car, with the exception of Hudson, escaped without serious harm. It is said that the curtains, which had been arranged to protect the boys from the rain, kept other members (Continued on page 5)

Special Train is Scene of Revelry

The many readers of The Davidsonian that were unable to ride the Davidson Special to Chapel Hill Saturday are here able to read a local scribe’s depiction of that eventful journey where joy and mirth reigned supreme. The log follows:

8:45—Special pulls in 45 minutes late carrying six coaches. Natives astounded. The police force swallows his chewing tobacco and falls over a suitcase before he is able to control his emotions.

9:10—With great effort the half portion of engine struggles out of town amid the less-than-dine cheers of the populace.

9:11—Stalled a hundred yards from the station. Fresh McCullom discovered riding the brake-rods and dragging his feet. On account of his presence of mind in answering “I don't know” to all questions, he is allowed to ride with the engineer. Train proceeds with more ease.

9:15—Patrons of special become uneasy when a minion of the law passes through looking intently at the floor in a suspicious manner. Bordeaux hides his suitcase between Frank Hudgins’ feet.

9:45—Coal gives out as train reaches Mooresville, engineer delays the whole show to haggle over the price of a new supply with a local dealer. Fair damsel riding a bicycle excites much comment and a few cheers.

9:50—The worthy Adams enters disguised as a butcher. However, he isn't slick enough to get by the boys, although his imitation of a profiteer is most realistic. They greet him with: “Give us Adams!” “We want an Adam's apple!” He strikes a pose and gives his slogan in a ringing voice: “Peanuts, cigars, cigarettes, chewing gum, and candy.” He retires (Continued on page 3)

Initiation Held On Banks of Catawba River

A unique initiation was given eight new members of the Spanish Club Tuesday afternoon. The club had their meeting on the Catawba river, motoring the seven miles in the care of Professors Fleagle and Blythe. The meeting was held about 5:00 o'clock, at which time fires were built and a bounteous supper was enjoyed. Besides Professors Fleagle and Blythe, Professor Goldiere was present, bringing the number of faculty members to three.

There were eight new men initiated, increasing the number of members to about 25. The names of the new members are: O. M. Farnsworth, Abel Sandoval, S. W. Brown, B. W. Dickson, Jay Hall, R. Brittain, J. S. McAlister, and D. O. Westbrook. The purpose of the Spanish Club is to give the members practice in speaking Spanish. The class periods furnish too little time to spend much time in practicing speaking the language. For this reason the club was organized for members who are interested in speaking Spanish. Besides the work that the club does, it enjoys the meetings as social affairs as well as educational, and the meetings are very interesting. Plans are being made for a program in the future. The plans are as yet rather indefinite. However, it is thought that the program will be given about December 1st, and will consist (Continued on page 5)

OUTSTANDING STAR JIMMY HENDRIX

Spectacular quarterback, who gained at will through the Carolina defense last Saturday, is a strong contender for State honors this year. His work Saturday was the feature of the game.

Duke Blue Devils Will Meet Wildcats Here in Closing Game of Season

Game Will Mark Conclusion of Most Successful Season in Recent Years

Davidson and Duke will close the 1925 football season with their annual Thanksgiving day game next Thursday on Richardson field. This contest will bring to a close a season that has been full of upsets on the part of both teams. Duke has had a rather hard time getting started but the strength that they have displayed in recent games has shown that they have a team that is to be feared.

The Davidson Wildcats, with this Turkey-day clash, will end its most successful season of recent years. Starting off the race for State honors with the Elon game, Davidson continued to put games in the right side of the won and lost column, with the exception of a tie with Wake Forest, until the Furman contest. The result of the Hampden-Sidney game was a big upset. The Virginians showed much unexpected strength and came back strong in the third quarter to even the count. AlthoughOutplaying the North Carolina Tar Heels for a greater part of the game last Saturday, Davidson could not muster the required strength to push the ball across the goal line, losing 13 to 0 in one of the most exciting battles ever played on Emerson field. As stated before, Duke had a hard time getting started, dropping games to Carolina, State, and Wake Forest among the state teams before they could register a win. A start was made in returning to form in the Elon game, this being continued in the contest with Richmond. It will be remembered that Davidson experienced no end of difficulty in defeating the Virginians last year, 7 to 0, in a contest played at Winston-Salem. Last year’s game was played in Durham, the home of Duke. Duke, then Trinity, was leading until the third quarter.

TAR HEELS ANNEX STATE TITLE WHEN WILDCATS LOSE EXCITING BATTLE

Glee Club Trains for Annual Tour

The Davidson College Glee Club is working hard in preparation for their season's program of recitals which will begin at an early date. Under the capable leadership of Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker of Charlotte, the club is being brought to a high degree of excellence. The Wildcat songsters will make three trips this year, two short trips of one performance each this fall, and the Southern tour early in the spring. The initial performance of the year will be in Mooresville on November 27, to be followed by a visit to Queens College on December 5. An extended tour of several Southern cities has been arranged for the spring, this tour to open with a performance in Gastonia on February 1. Last year the club played before a most responsive audience in that city, and they anticipate pleasure with the initial performance this year.

From Gastonia, the songsters will move to Spartanburg, S.C., where they will give a recital in the High School building of that city. The next engagement will be played in Greenville, S.C. or at Brenau College, Gainesville, Ga., a decision as to this engagement having not been reached at this writing. The musicians will then go to Atlanta, where they will appear at the Woman's Club on the first night and the next evening will visit Agnes Scott College in Decatur. The Davidson College Alumni Association of Atlanta will foster the club’s visit to that city. It is hoped that an engagement at Wesleyan College in Macon, Ga., may be procured as the next appearance.

(Continued on page 6)

Editor is Guest at Banquet

Monday night four hundred of the State’s most prominent citizens, and many well-known Northern men attended a banquet in Charlotte given in honor of Colonel Wade H. Harris, who for the past fifty years has been associated with newspaper work in the Carolinas and editor of the Charlotte Observer for the past score years. Among the celebrities attending the banquet were Mr. Theodore Price of New York City, editor of “Commerce” and ex-Governor Cameron Morrison of North Carolina; Justice Clarkson of the Supreme Court and many other prominent men in the nation’s affairs. Representing Davidson College were Dr. Martin, President of the College, Dr. J. L. Douglas, Dr. A. Currie, and Mr. C. F. Smith, editor of The Davidsonian. Colonel Harris was presented a gold watch in the name of the citizens of Charlotte, in token of their high esteem for Colonel Harris, by Mr. T. L. Kirkpatrick, President of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce, who acted as toastmaster at the five-course banquet. During the course of the banquet many short enjoyable talks were made by some of those attending the banquet and all of these talks were full of the speaker’s high personal esteem for Colonel Harris. Among the most noted talks of the evening were those by ex-Governor Morrison of North Carolina and Justice Clarkson of the Supreme Court bench.

Wildcats Bring Thousand Spectators to Feet by Dazzling Maneuvers — Over-Eagerness Cost Davidson Players Heavy Penalties

Seven times the Davidson Wildcats fought their way to within striking distance of the last Carolina white line this afternoon and were turned back. Twice the Tar Heels fought their way to within striking distance of the last white line of the Wildcats—and crossed it. And that tells the story of Carolina’s 13 to 0 victory over the most gallant corps of football players that has appeared on Emerson field this year. Seven times the Wildcats were within striking distance. Seven times they had an easy chance at a field goal that might have saved them from whatever ignominy there is in not scoring in a football game. But they took the chance at the greater glory of a touchdown and lost. They lost gallantly and in keeping with the best of their splendid traditions. They played to win to the last second of the last quarter with their spirit undimmed. The Davidson game deserves to go down in the annals of Emerson field with the greatest that have ever been played there. Carolina won it by virtue of its possession of the extra ounce of power that it takes.

(Continued on page 8)

Oratorical Contest Will Feature Junior Speaking

Tryouts for Places on Program to be Held on December Fifteenth

The tryouts for Junior Speaking, which tryouts usually come in the spring, will be held on the 15th of December this year in order to make it possible for Juniors to try out both for this team now and for the Inter-collegiate debating team in the spring. At this tryout all Juniors, who wish to do so, may speak and from the contestants six men will be chosen to compete for the Junior Oratorical Medal, which is awarded at commencement. These six men will speak finally, at a time to be appointed, during the Easter holidays.

The speaking part of the several days termed Junior Speaking which has been more or less inconspicuous of late will be given a prominent place this year. The Forensic Council is making every effort to encourage debating and oratory among the students and this is a distinct step in promoting the latter. The subjects for the orations are left to the choosing of the speakers and the subjects used in the preliminaries may be changed in the finals. All men who intend to go out for this contest must hand their name in to A. Y. Bowie, the president of the Forensic Council, by November 25th.

The class of '37 has a large number of good debaters and speakers and the approaching contest should be one of brilliance. The next few weeks will see a dozen or more Juniors hard at work and will probably bring forth six of the best orations heard at Davidson in some time. The interest is already high and several have expressed their intention of entering the tryouts. C. W. Williams, Harlee Branch, Jr., and Don Wharton are inter-collegiate debaters and have had wide experience in public speaking while Don Stewart, L. M. McCutcheon, and M. G. Lyerly are active in literary society work.

(Continued on page 5)