THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925

MOUNT HIGHTOP NEAR BLUE RIDGE

Fresh Coach Rawson to Teams to Run Queen City Athletics—Good Record Here

It has been announced that Coach Clarence Rawson, who has been head of the Freshman teams at Davidson for the
past two years, will not return next year but will succeed Dick Kirkpatrick as physical director and coach at Charlotte
High School.

Coach Rawson has done much for athletics at Davidson during his stay. He has taken the raw material of the
Freshman class and has made real varsity material of it in a creditable way. No one knows the patience and
ability that work of this kind calls for. During his first year he turned out a basketball team that won
many of its games and two of this team won letters on the varsity squad the past season. Four letter
men of this year’s football squad were from the team put out by Coach Rawson last year. The team he
put out last fall won a notable reputation as a contender for the championship of the two Carolinas when they
met their only defeat of the year in the final game. The basketball team of the past season made a
good showing but seemed to play in hard luck the greater part of the season.

Successful Coach of Freshman

Blue Ridge Surrounded by Many Famous Peaks

Delegates to conference spend considerable time in hiking over rugged mountains. Mount High Top is only one among the innumerable
peaks that surround Blue Ridge, offering to the delegates to the Annual Student Conference chances to test their hill-climbing abilities
as well as get views of some of the most beautiful mountain scenery in America. There in the midst of
the rugged hills and along the banks of rock-lined streams the youth of the South are assembled every year to
get inspiration from speakers of note, from clean life and contact with thoughtful young men. Men going to Blue Ridge
find it easy to get above the clouds of thought as well as above the clouds which hang around the
mountain peaks. There they are able to get above the hazy thinking which so often characterizes the life of college
students. There every man rubs shoulders with 500 of the South’s most progressive and thoughtful young men, listening to carefully
thought-out messages by stimulating leaders. There surrounding Blue Ridge within easy hiking distance are some of the most famous peaks
of Eastern America among them being Mount Mitchell, the highest peak east of the Rockies, Craggy, Greybeard, Turkey Ridge, and
Brushey.

BAPTISTS WIN THRILLER 8-7 IN ELEVENTH INNING

(Continued from page 2)

Wineholt 5 0 2 0
Woodham, lf 0 1 0
Glenn 2b 0 1 3
Simpson, 2b 0 0 0
*Davis 0 0 0
**McConnell 0 0 0
Totals 46 7 16 33 13
*Davis hit for Glenn in 9th.
**Batted for Simpson in 11th.

Score by innings:
Wake Forest 200 000 032 01—8 15 1
Davidson 420 000 001 00—7 16 4

Summary—Errors: Timberlake, Wrenn, Woodham 3; two-base hits: Kugler; three-

In the lately finished baseball season the Freshmen had a good team and won the majority of its games. The
Freshmen of this year are expected to do much toward making up the teams for the ensuing years. The work
he has done cannot be given too much credit and the student body feels that it has lost a good
man and its good wishes follow him to his new position.

Davidson Fresh won their second tennis match of the season when they decisively defeated the tennis team of the Charlotte
Country Club on Tuesday, May 5. The score was 5-0, and, while there was some very good tennis played, it
was easily apparent that the Freshmen were superior to the opposing team. The match was played at the Country Club
in Charlotte. The splendid courts of the club were in their usual excellent shape and were a great encouragement for
hard, fast tennis. Darkness halted the contest during the final doubles match.

Yearling Racquet Squad Wins, 5-0, Over Charlotte

Rock Hill Force Freshmen to Tie in Match on Hill—Dick Carr Stars

FIVE PLAYERS WIN TENNIS LETTERS

One new letter and four stars will be awarded this year in tennis to the five men who composed the
Davidson tennis team. Harry Price, captain and for one year Singles champion of North Carolina, will be awarded his second
"D." M. G. Beall, manager, and T. F. Staley, these three men having been on the team for three years.
J. M. Trotter will be awarded a star. Leighton McCutchen, who proved to be the find of the season, will
be awarded the "D." McCutchen fought his way up over all except Price and played number two in singles matches
and paired with Price in the lead doubles.

The tennis team this year had a successful season, losing but one match, that to the Navy racqueteers at Annapolis.
They defeated Maryland, Virginia, Clemson, Union Seminary, and Charlotte and Winston-Salem Country.

The scores were as follows:
Carr, of Davidson, defeated Wilkinson, of Charlotte, 6-1, 6-4.
Lockhart, of Davidson, defeated Hill, of Charlotte, 6-0, 6-3.
Crosland, of Davidson, defeated Henderson, Charlotte, 6-3, 6-4.
Wharton, of Davidson, defeated Marsh, of Charlotte, 6-3, 4-6, 6-2.Clubs. While all the Carr and Lockhart, of Davidson, defeated UNE
eat My (aera eine es outins Seoeamuenits) 7 ‘Af | ment before the semi-finals, Price and Mc- Gilchrist and Henderson,
of Charlotte, 6-3, 6-0. North Carolina. The match between Crosland and Wharton, of Davidson, and Wilkinson and Gil- men were
Tom Staley was the only man to go through the season until the state tournament without defeat.

Rock Hill Training School

On Saturday, May 9, Davidson Fresh and Rock Hill Training School played an extremely close match which ended finally in
a 3-3 tie. The match was played on the college courts and, although they were in very poor condition, however
some brilliant tennis was played. The play of the older Roddy, of Rock Hill, was especially noticeable for its excellency.

A return match may possibly be made in the near future. The scores were as follows: Crossland, of Davidson, lost
to Roddy, of Rock Hill, 2-6, 4-6. Carr, of Davidson, defeated Moore, of Rock Hill, 7-5, 4-6, 6-4. Lockhart, of
Davidson, lost to Poe, of Rock Hill, 5-7, 4-6. Wharton, of Davidson, defeated Roddy (“Monk”), of Rock Hill, 6-1, 6-0.
Carr and Lockhart, of Davidson, lost to Roddy and Moore, of Rock Hill, 4-6, 4-6. Crossland and Wharton, of Davidson,
defeated Poe and Roddy (“Monk”), of Rock Hill, 6-1, 6-4.

BASKETBALL MEN GET VARSITY LETTER

Immediately after the chapel exercises Friday morning the members of the Wildcat basketball squad were presented with gold basketballs as
a token of the appreciation of the student body for the fine work they have done this year. The emblems
were presented by Dr. J. M. McConnell, who stated in the short talk he made, that it would be a
great thing for Davidson if every man in the student body could get some training in all branches of college
athletics. He said that it would not only be a great physical benefit to the students but would be a
very valuable asset to those trying to get positions as teachers in high schools. There is a demand for teachers
who are able to coach some athletic team as well as teach. Dr. McConnell said that he believed the Athletic
Association would provide the necessary equipment if the students showed sufficient interest in the matter to make it worthwhile.

After congratulating the cagemen and praising them for their fine performance this season, Dr. McConnell presented emblems to the following
men: Boggs, Laird, McConnell, Anderson, Staley, Beall, Hewlett, and Oeland, manager.

Mr. and Mrs. C. L. Grey, and Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Romefelt and young son, are visiting their parents,
Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey.

Mrs. F. H. Whitaker is at home after a stay of several months in Greensboro.
