4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH............................ Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON................ Assistant Managing Editor
P. G. EASON.................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON....................... Athletic Editor
J. B. PARKER....................... Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE....................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH............... Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN.................. Alumni Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE....................... Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH........ Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER............... Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON............. Subscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON............... Subscription Manager
C. O. WILLIAMS.................. Solicitor
V. S. SOLOMON.................. Solicitor
E. L. JULIAN.................... Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
F. HOLLINGSWORTH, Vice-Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
J. E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
E. K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
J. B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
J. B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS
J. G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
S. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

SCHOOL AHEAD

September has rolled around, bringing with it the opening of school and the return of the prodigal to his dormitory
home where he has spent many happy hours of his college life. It is the time when the delightful memories
that cluster around the summer vacation must be forgotten and a serious state of mind entered into.

The training of one’s mind is a serious business. Of course, it is not unmixed with fun and some frivolity,
but the fact remains that the acquiring of a store of knowledge that will stand in stead during one’s later
life, is a thing that should command the student’s attention. There are nine months of school ahead of us, short
or long as we make them. To some, they will drag by wearily enough, and to others, they will seem
an opportunity that lingers only long enough for one to taste and not to quench the thirst for learning. To
those who regard the time spent in school as a glorious opportunity for self-improvement, the time here will not be
spent in vain. Each man that enters Davidson this fall has an equal opportunity to improve himself mentally and physically.
Each day will bring forth new opportunities for improvement and for service. It will be up to him to prove
himself worthy of the challenge. He can make his record only by applying himself from day to day, taking each
new task as it comes and meeting it squarely, face to face.

If every man could be made to realize the importance of utilizing every moment that he can in equipping his
mind, it would be of untold worth to him. The average business man of today will tell you that he
would give almost anything if he could go back over his school days and could be made to realize the
paramount idea of being in school—that of acquiring a foundation upon which a future career and success could be founded.
It is up to you, men of Davidson College, whether you use the coming year to an advantage or not.
There are no strings tied to you now. You have cast off your connections for a while at least with
home and parents. No one to nag you about your lessons or even suggest that you study a little harder.
It is all up to you. There will be times when it will be irksome to study while the rest
of the crowd has a good time. Upon this determining of whether or not you will study to an advantage
or not, will hinge much of your future life. Go to it, Davidson College and the world is behind you.

MR. WILDCAT

The official mascot of the Davidson Wildcats has languished in durance vile the whole, hot summer through, waiting patiently for
his buddies to come back. Mr. Wildcat may have longed for his native heath or swamps but this wish has
been denied because the boys demand the assuring presence of some sort of feline creature to insure victory in athletic
sports and contests. The Athletic Association determined last spring to build our mascot a substantial cage on the campus where
he might find room to stretch without backing up against a relentless piece of steel wire. However, nothing has been
done and the cat languishes in a place too small, and admirably unsuited for the habitat of an animal. If
we are going to keep this animal on the campus, we should provide suitable quarters. A place where those who
visit here could see the “fighting wildcat” in person. Perhaps the cat himself would enjoy a place where he could
exercise a bit; who knows? At least a clean, open and airy place fit for a beast to live in.

TO FRESHMEN

To you new men who are entering Davidson College for the first time, The Davidsonian extends its heartiest greetings. You
are the newest addition to the college, a class that will take the place of those which have been here
for one or more years. It is you to whom the student body and the college will look for aid
and co-operation in many matters that come up during the years you will be here. To prove yourself worthy of
this trust is a task but a joy, nevertheless. You have left home behind and are now ready to take
your place in the ranks of men who have work to perform. The deeds that you do and the records
you make will be credited to you and not to others. While you are at Davidson, at least, you are
the masters of your fate and the captains of your souls. To strengthen yourself both mentally and physically should be
your aim. You will not pass this way again. The four years spent in college seem mighty short to a
man who is turned loose, diploma in hand at the close of the session in June. Any member of last
year’s graduating class will tell you that. Each week will bring on more duties to perform and the tasks ahead
seem multitudinous at times. The man who plunges ahead from the first and faces work with a determination is the
fellow who will walk away from the rest at the end of the year and in after life. Upper-classmen will
tell you that procrastination in studying is one of the worst faults of the average college man. It is easy
to defer studying and recitation until the night and then until the next morning. But such methods are sure to
prove one’s undoing after a time. Only regular periods of study with minds untrammeled by other thoughts will put one
at the top of the honor roll.

The college and the student body expect every new man to conduct himself as a gentleman at all times. Every
advantage is open to you, and there will be a helpful hand waiting at every difficult turn of the road.
Men of Davidson, prove yourselves worthy of your trust.

CHURCH ATTENDANCE

For a number of years there has been a growing sentiment against compulsory church attendance. Despite the fact that this
is a cherished tradition of the college and one which has been instrumental in keeping high the standard of student
life, there is no gainsaying the fact that the student body as a whole is dissatisfied with the idea of
forced attendance at divine services. We realize that any criticism against church attendance is a direct blow against the tradition
and aim of Davidson College. One cannot, however, shut his eyes to inevitable facts and let sentiment down right thinking.
There are facts that must be met fairly and squarely before there will ever be a perfect concordance of thought.between
the student body and the best traditions of the college. Each student is required to attend church on Sunday morning.
Now anyone who has even a medium of common sense and observation has noticed that there is a sad lack
of attentiveness and demeanor among the student section during church. Too many of the boys read papers and magazines, others
look out the windows, while others sit still as a knot on a log but have that dumb look that
tells only too well of a vacant mind at the time being. Surely, the majority of the students are not
in a mood that goes hand in hand with a religious trend of mind and action. What is the reason
for this? Can it be explained in terms of scholastic thought? We think so. We believe that the students of
Davidson College, realizing that they are being made to attend church, are consciously or unconsciously working up a sentiment of
disfavor toward attendance at church. They have been used to going to church while at home, but when the voice
of authority says that attendance is compulsory, then is the time when the sentiment against church services of any kind
is started up. Such is human nature. According to the laws of our country, everyone has the perfect freedom in
religious worship.

Through the Key Hole

Exit Chaff and enter that youngest of the ever youthful columns, Through the Key Hole. Beginning with this issue, this
column will hereafter bear the above-named title and it is hoped by the scribbler that the reputation it has enjoyed
as a purveyor of real humor will not be stigmatized in any way. Contributions of a various nature are solicited
for the journalistic well-being of this column. Anything in the realm of human and animal knowledge will be discussed with
a free and unbridled conscience. Shower your darts, boys.

Speaking of key holes, we are reminded of one of our Davidson products who was a bell hop at a
summer resort hostelry the past season. He came back to school with a bandaged eye and when asked the why
of it, said that he had become slightly muddled on the porch one night and had mistook a lighted cigarette
for a key hole.

Money is known by the company it keeps. Our idea of a lazy sport is the umpire who hopes that
baseball will be commercialized so that the unions will call the strikes. An apple caused man’s first downfall but peaches
have been handling the business ever since. Many a college boy praises the biscuits that mother used to make without
ever hinting of the good old dough that father used to raise.

Billy Rice, the Bible student, says that Joseph must have been a pretty straight fellow because Pharaoh made a ruler
out of him.

Minor Chords

September-time is here again;
The purple haze
Veiling the hills foretells the reign
Of Autumn days.
Sombre and sad the fields will lie
About us soon;
The whippoorwill at night will cry
'Neath the cold moon.
Soon will the scholar seek his books;
The dusk will show,
From street and lane and cozy nooks,
The hearthfires glow.
A few more morns will strew the land
With white frost-rhyme,
And mark the end of summer and
September-time,
A few more waning suns will call
The noisy crow;
And he with dusky fellow all
Will Southward go.
Ere long the maple leaves will show
Their gleam of red,
Before they scatter to and fro
With all their dead,
The reaper soon will sing among
His golden corn,
And in the hay fields, sweet along
The ridge at morn.

J. H. Caligan.

Such was the belief that led our forefathers to cross the Atlantic into a wilderness that held only dangers and
hardships. Should college students be deprived of the right, and for what reason? One of the strongest arguments in favor
of compulsory church attendance is that the majority of young people who attend church are under age and do not
realize the right and wrong of church attendance. The average man who attends Davidson has been instructed in religious observance
since the days of his youth. He has attended church of his own free will and volition since he can
remember. Upon entering college, it is usually taken for granted that the entrees are well versed in such things, at
least until he is made to go to church. There is the rub. If a man is expected to conduct
himself as a gentleman on the campus, on the athletic field, and in the classrooms, surely, the same supposition should
apply to church attendance. Most of the students at Davidson are men enough to realize that a show of religious
fervor cannot be gained by compulsory attendance at church. These are plain facts that are apparent to everyone. Whether the
present condition will be changed or not is a matter of conjecture. A careful investigation will hurt no one.

(Sign on Gastonia real estate office) Classy Real Estate—Dirt Cheap.

Ophelia was his dream girl—but he woke up.

There's a helpful little woman back of every hero and another one back of every boob.

Turn on the Jazz

June night
Moonlight
Racing car
Speeding far
Manly arms
Girlish charms
Gin-soaked hips
Tempting lips
Left hand loose
As the deuce
Slapped-on brakes
Goodness Sakes!
Both content
No accident.

What’s in a name? Well, then meet Mr. Biggers, the cave-man de luxe of the freshman class.

Great aches from little corns grow.

“Waiter bring the shotgun there’s a hair in the butter,” said Buster Lawson as he cafeteriad at Central’s the other
day.

Check Monk, the watermelon baron of the wastelands of Georgia, says that he has traveled a lot in his lengthy
lifetime, but that he never knew so many girls played drums before. Everywhere he goes he sees a college girl
with a round black box which he supposes is used to carry her drum in.

With girls Buck Shaw was popular,
Though not a charming sinner
He won the hearts of all with just:
“My but you're getting thinner.”

A freshman savant around here makes the wise statement that a noisy noise annoys an oyster.

A Short Story From Life

Buck Rose sat on a tack.
Buck Rose.

Sweet papa was a soul that always took things as they came. He had paralysis in both legs but he
never kicked.

A Quatrain

Come blow the cornet
For J. Floyd McMeans.
He tried to rush the gate
Down at Queens.

Saxophones

The latest on saxophones is that they are immoral. We've always thought that but now we know it. Since so
many of the freshmen have them we suppose that there must be something to it, but we’ve never had the
nerve to mouth one of them. It’s simply disgusting to see one of these here saps sucking a sax with
cheeks distended and eyes popping. Probably the reason is because we can’t do it ourselves. You can hear those same
airs ’neath any dormitory window. It is believed that if every saxophone in college was placed end to end, the
lot of them would reach to the Catawba river where they all belong. When a friend told us that he
was going to marry a phone girl, we asked him whether he meant a tele-, saxa-, or graphone gal.

The whole school is glad that Jimmy Hendrix is back again. He will certainly help out in the backfield of
the Wildcat team. Saturday is the day for which the Cats have been looking all the summer. Here’s hoping that
the late evening will see the maroon and gold surmounted by the red and black.
