THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1925

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

ASTHMA
There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated vapors of—
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

Probably one FLAVOR reason for the popularity of WRIGLEY’S is that it lasts so long and returns such great dividends for so small an outlay. It keeps teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen, digestion good. Fresh and full-flavored always in its wax-wrapped package.

FREE 5 TUBE RADIO SET FREE
Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for full particulars regarding this OFFER.
RADIOTEX CO.
296 Broadway
New York, N. Y.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

FELLOWS!!!
We have several new U-Push-’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

Slim Vaughn—“Well, I must be off.”
Co-ed—“That’s what I thought when I first met you.”

OF THE PEANUT PARCHER
It’s great to be an editor,
To sit up late at night,
And scratch the wool,
And shoot the bull;
And write, and write, and write.

“John, I hope I didn’t see you smile at that creature that just passed.”
“I hope you didn’t, m’dear.”

C. E. Houston—“Waiter, do you feed people in here?”
Waiter—“Yes, but we don’t load trucks.”

Frances—“Excuse me, Ma Herd.”
Alf Robinson—“Er-er, Honey, I feel sick; let’s go back and have a date in the parlor.”

Bill Green—“What do you do?”
Train Caller—“I call trains.”
Bill—“Well, call me one to Davidson; I’m in a hurry.”

“I’m beginning to miss my husband,” said Mrs. Murphy as the rolling pin grazed Pat's head and hit the wall.

AT THE LYCEUM
Kid Lyerly—“What is that charming thing she is playing now?”
Red McAlpine—“That’s a piano, you boob!”

A SURE METHOD
Customer—“I can’t find my wife anywhere, what shall I do?”
Floorwalker—“Just start talking to our pretty assistant over there.”

FIVE DEMERITS
Last Saturday at the Home Coming Day parade Fresh Mug Mauzey pulled out his watch when the captain yelled, “Mark time!”

“There’s always room at the top” yelled Vern Broyles as he opened a half-filled bottle of Coca-Cola.

HEARD AT THE GAME
Fair One—“Oooh, I'll bet that fellow that calls the numbers gets A in his math every month, doesn’t he?”

Last week a freshman got a letter from home telling him that if he couldn't make more than 1 on all of his work that he would have to come home. His dad wanted to know where the other 99 points went to.

WILT THOU?
Red Anderson—“Sweetheart, you are the flower of my heart.”
And she wilted into his arms.

Fresh Pope—“Who is that homely looking girl that fellow is dancing with?”
Fresh Biggers—“That’s my sister.”
Fresh Pope—“She sure can dance.”

The man who counts in this world is the cashier.

“Excuse my dust,” said the goldminer as he struck a nugget with his pick.

Irate Parent—“Hey, young fellow, set the milk inside when you get ready to leave!”
But Abe Lincoln still wonders what that empty quart milk bottle is doing in his roommate’s clothes closet.

“You’re cheating on me,” cried George Smith as a fellow looked on his paper.

We believe that the most striking things around here are the clocks and the automobiles.

HARDBOILED IS RIGHT!
“Fire!” Clouds of smoke poured from the doomed building. And the fire engines were not in sight. A tall gentleman hove in view. Without any fire-fighting apparatus he strode into the building. Soon the smoke stopped pouring out. Not a blaze was to be seen. In a few minutes the man walked out, loosening his belt, and seeming altogether happy and uncharred. People stood about, their mouths gaping open in amazement at this man. Only seven people fainted, however, when it was learned that he was a champion fire-eater, and that was the first square meal he had had in a month.

“Ah, good morning, Mrs. Blank. And how is everything?”
“Oh, it is a grand time I have between my husband and the furnace. If I keep—”

Isadore—“Oh, Abie, do you know that—”“On Sunday night the fire insurance runs out?” 

Abie—“Yes, and do you know that on Saturday night the fire-engines run out?”

A sheik is a fellow who can keep his seat in a crowded street car and flirt with the girl who is doing the strap-hanger act.

Hobo—“Dis must be a college town; they ain’t a cigar butt on the street anywhere.”

AND HE FLUNKED

The professor told the freshman to sign his pledge at the end of his review paper, and he wrote Sigma Chi.

Purcell—“Here’s this quarter I borrowed from you last year.”

McRae—“Well, you’ve kept it so long I don’t know whether it’s worth while for me to change my opinion of you for two bits. Lend me five dollars.”

MIGHTY WEAK!

Joyner—“I thought you said an Irishman could fight.”

Crinkley—“Yes, I did; why?”

Joyner—“Well, Harry Vance, and Tom Baker, and three other fellows and I just licked one.”

T. G. McCutchen says that this last summer his cousin was being married in a church. He and the bride were just ready to go down the aisle when the lights went out, but they kept right on going. She was a widow and knew the way.

THIRD FLOOR OF EAST AGAIN

Hudgins—“Don’t spit on the floor, fresh.”

Fresh—“S’matter, floor leak?”

It may be that men would be lots more handsome if they did not think so much.

The greater the fives and sixes on our reports, the more money the railroad companies will make at the end of the first semester.

To know the true source of inspiration, Jesus said, “If I keep my eye on one, the other goes out.”

ALUMNI ASSOCIATION PRESIDENT

John’s Shoes INCORPORATED REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

On Display By Mr. A. M. Shimmon Saturday and Monday Nov. 7 and 9 at Students’ Store

$7.00

(Continued from page 1)

The speaker of the day was Rev. Jesse C. Rowan, ’04, president of the Alumni Association and pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Concord, N. C.

“I wonder,” he began, “if we have a conception of the glorious opportunities presented to us here at Davidson. Personally, I did not until more than a decade after I graduated. I asked people in Maine, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Maryland, Louisiana, Nebraska, Nevada, Washington and many other states, ‘What leading colleges can you name in the South?’ Everyone that named at least one named Davidson College. It is up to the alumni and also the students to maintain this reputation that has spread throughout the country.

“Davidson College,” he continued, “is the personification of Christian education. When I say Christian education, I mean learning to know and to love the principles of righteousness as enunciated in the Bible and taught by Christ. The things that have split nations are different thoughts and ideas. If the world could be brought under the influence of one literature, one source of inspiration, there would be no discord. That is what you are learning here at Davidson, to love and follow Christ.

“In conclusion, I want to advocate my pet idea, a loyalty fund. This would not conflict in any way with any other funds of the college. It would be only $10.00 from each alumnus every year. I am sure they would all be willing to give that much. It would be used for three different things: to maintain the beauty of the campus, to be used in pure alumni work, and for a professional travel fund. I would like to leave a question with you in conclusion, as alumni and students of Davidson College, what shall we do to make it the best school in the South? The answer is up to you.”

Charlotte Transfer Company

PHONE 298

BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE

Dr. Martin expressed his appreciation to Dr. Rowan for delivering the address. After this, Dr. McGeachy, of Charlotte, pronounced the benediction.

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL

BILLIARDS

205 West Trade Street (upstairs)

Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte

THE WHITE DRUG CO.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

BOSTONIAN SHOES

SHERRILL-WHITE SHOE STORE, Agent

Drop in and look them over

STATESVILLE, N. C.

Don’t Miss Our Showing AT PHI HALL TUESDAY, NOV. 10th

BELK BROS. CO. OF CHARLOTTE, N. C.