THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1925

MONK YOUNGER
Great Coach who has brought Wildcat eleven to prominent position in Southern athletics.

Army Salvage Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.
We carry a complete line of army goods and general merchandise. Hob-nail shoes, leggings, O. D. pants and breeches, O.
D. shirts, raincoats and blankets.

Homecoming Day Recalls Memories of Former Events

On the fifteenth of November, 1924, the Davidson campus was the scene of an event which brought joy to the
hearts of everyone who was connected with Davidson. That was the day set aside by the college as Homecoming Day.
That is the day when students met alumni, classmates met classmates, and fathers saw sons in the light as fellowmen
instead of children. Throughout the whole day, a feeling of friendship and good feeling was felt on the campus. This
was only overshadowed by the sadness that all felt in leaving and in knowing that such times as this could
not last forever.

In the afternoon, the Wildcats played the University of North Carolina in a game of football which will never be
forgotten by the spectators. It was a game in which Davidson, although they were terribly outweighed and doped to lose
by two touchdowns, fought as only those Davidson Wildcats can fight and held the stronger team to two field goals.
The spirit of the day seemed to have gotten into the team because they fought as they had never fought
before and held Carolina for downs many times in the shadow of their goal posts. It was that kind of
game where the losers did not bow their heads even though they were beaten but with heads aloft said that
they were proud of their team and were more than satisfied at its showing.

That night in Shearer Hall, the visitors were entertained by the Dramatic Club with the presentation of three plays written
and enacted by the students. They were under the efficient supervision of Professor E. J. Wood. The first was "Understudying
Brown." Then came "Ellen," by D. M. Currie. Finally came F. Smith’s product, "BLUE blood." All of these were written
well and presented excellently. They afforded a great deal of amusement to the spectators.

In 1924, the Wildcats beat Citadel in a very exciting game on Homecoming Day by the score of 7 to
9. This was one of the closest games of the season and the victor was in doubt until the final
whistle was blown and there was great rejoicing on the campus that night.

The V. P. I. game was the center of attraction of the 1922 Homecoming Day. In this game, the Wildcats
showed their true strength and held the heavy Gobblers to a 7 to 7 tie. This game was like the
'24 game with Carolina in that it was the test of a light team against a much heavier one and
the Wildcats showed their spirit.

This year we are planning an event which will not only equal but will surpass the one of last year.
A holiday has been declared and the festivities will start Friday night with the picture show. On Saturday will come
the football game with N. C. State and that evening a stunt night will be presented which ought to prove
very interesting.

DOCTOR HOOD IS IN EUROPE FOR WINTER

Dr. Frazer Hood sailed from New York on the White Star liner, Homeric, on Saturday, September 6th. His wife and
daughter were with him. He is now in Paris, attending lectures at Sorbonne. His address is 11 Rue Scrive, in
care of the American Express on the Rue Saint Pere. Dr. Hood will probably be in Paris until January, at
which time he will go to Geneva where he will study under Baudonia, a great psychologist. His particular interest in
Europe is to learn something about a so-called new psychology, put forth by Zansky in England and Baudonia. His chief
interests are psychopathology and psychotheraphy. In the spring, Dr. Hood expects to be back in England, where he will attempt
to get under Zansky’s instruction. If he succeeds, he expects to return home in June.

CLASH WITH WOLFPACK
(Continued from page 1)

Laird, varsity tackles, out for the past games also, have been back in uniform this week and are expected to
get into today’s game. Davidson will probably rely on its fast forward passing attack, while the same offense is strong
on the State side, with McDowell throwing the ball. Grey, a man of great ability; Captain Black, and Jim Hendrix,
himself the greatest re-Triple receiver of passes in North Carolina, all start the ball on its aerial route. Wells, in
the backfield, is one of the outstanding backs of the state by virtue of his powerful off-tackle runs against Wake
Forest and other teams.

VANCE HOTEL
Special attention given to luncheons and dinners for college boys
STATESVILLE, N. C.

$100,000 REWARD
To anyone who will prove that anything stated in this ad is misrepresented or untrue.

TAILORED TO MEASURE
YOUR OPPORTUNITY
To purchase direct from the manufacturer a fine quality suit made of pure serge or worsted wool valued at $50.00.
Strictly hand-tailored. Perfect fit, joy, and satisfaction guaranteed.

Send No Money—Write for our Special Offer
SPECIAL OFFER
$10.00 VALUE PURE SILK HOSE FOR ONLY $1.00
Six Pair Ladies’ light or heavy, full-fashioned pure SILK HOSE valued at $10, for only $1.00. Finest Quality.
Gentlemen’s Twelve Pair Men’s light or heavy pure SILK HOSE valued at $10, for only $1.00.

SEND NO MONEY
Write us at once for full bargain offer to
THE ALLIED SALES CO., 150 NASSAU ST., NEW YORK, N. Y.

WADE LEGGETTE
Davidson, Half
Last year the entire State eleven was crying “Watch Leggette” as he played one of his best games.

FUNDS ARE RAISED
(Continued from page 1)
The members of the committee are: J. E. Moore, A. Y. Bowie, R. W. Graves, S. W. Brown, H. L.
Leathers, T. G. McCutcheon, A. B. Williford, J. E. Barrington, J. B. Webb, W. C. Ogden, J. M. Appleby, W.
A. Christian, and A. H. Hillingsworth. Mr. Baruch, a wealthy New Yorker and native of South Carolina, has already contributed
a quarter of a million dollars towards the endowment. Reports so far indicate that the campaign here will be successful.
Walter Hines Page, known chiefly on account of his work as editor of “World’s Work” and as ambassador to Great
Britain during the Wilson administration, has devoted a great part of his life to finding a plan for international peace.
Due to this fact, it has been decided to give the university his name.

STUDENTS VOTE
(Continued from page 1)
The President of the Student Body shall then at the first opportunity call a meeting of the Student Body. At
this meeting, the President shall preside. He shall first explain the object of the meeting and the nature of the
case. The evidence produced in the trial before the Student Council shall be read by a member of the Council,
after which a designated member of the Council shall explain the decision which the Council has reached, together with the
reasons which prompted this decision. The student who is appealing shall then be called upon to explain his position. The
matter may now be deemed open to discussion on the part of those interested in the case. A two-thirds vote
of the Student Body shall be necessary to override the action which the Student Council has taken. At all times
during this trial, order must be preserved and careful attention given to every detail.

PHONE 24
ANY YELLOW CAB CO.

FRATERNITIES PLAN
(Continued from page 1)
While only four of these have been taken, the rest are expected to be occupied in the future. The Kappa
Alphas have taken the second lot, the Kappa Sigmas the third, the Beta Theta Pi’s the fourth, and the Pi
Kappa Alphas the sixth. The houses which are to be built by the different fraternities have not been definitely decided
upon. The general plans will be similar but the houses will be different. Further advancement of the work is being
delayed as they are waiting on the plans of the architect. The new system will be a boost for the
Davidson fraternities and will undoubtedly be far more satisfactory in the future as the fraternities grow.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES FOR ALL-WEAR
No matter what may be the occasion—classroom, tramping, sport wear, or formal wear, there’s a fine model for you, to
fit the occasion as well as the foot, at
GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

SHOES
LUGGAGE

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION
We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest
The Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

A Man’s Character is Reflected in the Stationery He Uses
NOTEBOOKS
STATIONERY
TYPEWRITER SUPPLIES
POUND & MOORE CO.
S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
OLDEST IN THE STATE
213 N. Tryon St.
