THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1925

ANNOUNCING

ALUMNI NOTES

Former Student Writes Interesting Letter of Oriental Experiences

1917—Brantley is now at Boston University taking an advanced degree. He attended the University of Oxford last year.

1903—Rev. W. S. Patterson and wife (Miss Rosa Withers of Davidson) will attend the Pan-Presbyterian Council at Cardiff, Wales. This
council meets every four years alternately in the United States and Great Britain.

1918—Mr. J. R. Jones, who is now studying at Princeton Theological Seminary, will go as a missionary to Brazil after
completing a course in Columbia University. While at Davidson, he was a member of the football team and one of
the best punters ever at Davidson.

1920—Rev. Dr. Byron Clarke, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, has been detained at home for several weeks
on account of illness.

Alumni on the Hill

By CRUE OREN

Tom Morrow, ex-'25; Dan Mallory, ex-'25; Wallace Moore, '24; W. S. Buchanan, '23; Martin Foil, '23; W. S. ("Gig") Shepard,
'24; J. M. Selser, ex-'28; W. M. Heston, '24; C. M. Streibach, '24; K. F. Menzies, '24; W. E. Bane,
ex-'27.

1914—Rev. D. T. Caldwell has moved from Wilmington, N.C. to 419 W. Washington St., St. Petersburg, Fla.

1922—Rev. John L. Parks, who graduates from Union Theological Seminary in May, has accepted the pastorate of the Presbyterian Church
of Spencer, N.C.

Who Knows?

We’ve had a busy and happy Christmas time; it might also occasion a little surprise to know just how many
things we have done similar, and how many that were different. We had parties, and Santa, and services, and giving
of presents, and a grand and merry time. I will not bore you with a long account of the things
that will bore you most, I am sure that you will be interested in the plans for the new alumni
gymnasium.

That, on a Saturday night, in February, 1917, Watts Hall was threatened by fire. When in No. 1 Watts a
large blaze was noticed. Hurried investigation proved to be the beginning of what might have been a disaster. The regular
occupants of the room were away and the cause of the fire is not known.

That, during the two days in the first week of January, the Davidson football team was praised for its fine
work during the past season by a former student, W. S. Parker, who is now serving in the mission fields
of Korea. The letter was mailed on January 2nd, and after a tedious journey across the sea, it finally reached
Davidson and was delivered to the president of the student body. Mr. Parker praises the fine showing made by the
Wildcats eleven during the past season but writes more extensively on his work in the land of Korea. His letter
follows:

Pyengyang, Korea, Jan. 2, 1925.

Dear Davidson Boys:

I hope each and every one of you had a most merry Christmas, and I take this opportunity of wishing
you a very happy and prosperous New Year. We have had one—that is, a merry Christmas. The prosperous New Year
lies before us, but I am sure it will be so; and if not a prosperous one in a financial
way, probably it will but be the happier.

We try to run at all times the best of pictures and feel sure that you will enjoy them.It occurs
to me that I have very little to say that may interest college boys. I have grown old and out
of touch with the newest phase of slang, and the newest hits in jokes or songs. So if I were
wise I would keep quiet. But I am not wise, and lay less claim to being so than ever before.
So I am going to write you to some extent of the mission field, that is, the Pyengyang Mission field,
Christmas.

Before doing so, let me say that I have read with the keenest interest the Davidsonian this past fall, and
want to congratulate you. The football team was certainly a fine one, and if I were abreast of the times
as no Korean missionary can hope entirely to be, I would tell you just what I mean in the language
of the day that would appeal to you. As I am not, I will find our shows highly entertaining.

That, in October 1916, the Commissary offered a Gold Metal Tennis Racket to Mr. Francis C. Thames, '23, of Little
Rock, Arkansas, who married Miss Nia Rogers, of Blenheim, S.C. The groom is a graduate of Davidson and is now
professor of Science at Chicora College, Columbia, S.C. We extend a hearty welcome to you ALL.

News has been received of the birth to Mr. and Mrs. B. W. Romfelt, of Asheville, N.C. Mr. Romfelt, '21,
is with the Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. of Chester, N.C.

Deaths:
A. F. Nace, ex-'24—The student body is grieved to learn of the death of A. F. Nace, of Atlanta, Ga.,
on January 6, 1925. Mr. Nace attended Davidson in the fall of 1922, withdrawing on account of serious illness. He
was the son of Prof. A. F. Nace, member of the faculty of the Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

Mr. Francis C. Thames, '23, of Little Rock, Arkansas, who married Miss Nia Rogers, of Blenheim, S.C. The groom is
a graduate of Davidson and is now professor of Science at Chicora College, Columbia, S.C. We extend a hearty welcome
to you ALL.

Chat, literary societies at Davidson used to meet on Saturday and Monday nights, and the Y.M.C.A. on Thursday nights.

CHAS. A. PEELER, Manager

We are all proud of you and of all you do; and it made me want to be there the
worst thing when I read of all the victories and, at the end, of home-coming day and the great Carolina
game.

This past week we have been trying to do special work in preaching to all we can reach here; and
many tracts have been given out. Personally, in all my rounds, I have received thanks from those with whom I
talked and promises to come to church, except in one or two cases. Many say, “Yes, we know we ought
to believe, and we are going to do so.” But here, as everywhere, procrastination is prevalent. Pray for the work
here.

With very best wishes, sincerely yours,
W. S. PARKER

PROFESSOR ERWIN TALKS AT SUNDAY BAND MEETING

On Sunday afternoon Prof. E. J. Erwin made a pleasing talk to the Ministerial Band on the subject, Feeling and
Doing. He divided the race into two classes; first, those who feel, love, are contented with faith alone; second, those
who are practical, impulsive, the doers. “Faith without works is dead; works without faith is dead. The combination of works
and faith with the results they accomplish is the goal towards which we should all strive.”

As an example of the two classes of Christians, he cited Peter as the impulsive, the industrious, the blunt, the
doer; John as the faithful, the lover, governed by his emotions. Still another example was Martha, the practical, the industrious,
the doer; Mary, the lover, content with her faith. A more modern example was St. Dominick, the industrious, the doer,
the impulsive, the organizer of Christian forces; St. Francis, the lover, content with his faith in God.

In conclusion, under the head of business, it was announced that a “feed” was to be held next Saturday night
at the gymnasium after the show. All candidates for the ministry are urged to attend. There are approximately 120 students
in college who say they intend to make the ministry their life work. Out of that number there are not
half that attend the meetings each Sunday afternoon.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in
your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company, McAlister Carson, Manager Insurance Department, Charlotte, N.C. Phone 3940.
