2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1925

Freshman Team to Play Furman Yearlings Next
Furman Rats Said to Have Strong Aggregation This Season

On Thursday afternoon the Freshman football team, accompanied by Coach Matox and Manager Carroll, will journey to Greenville to encounter
the strong Furman aggregation. The game was first scheduled to be played on October 23, but was later moved back
to Friday, November 6. It is reported that Furman, as usual, has an exceptionally strong team. Just how Captain Black
and his cohorts will emerge from the game cannot be predicted, as comparative scores are not available. Moreover, figures tell
little of the teams’ comparative strength. Last year the team came out with the short end of a 26-0 score.
We can at least hope for an improvement over this. A victory would be sweet revenge in the face of
the Varsity’s 6-0 defeat at the hands of the Hurricane.

One Furman back seems to be outstanding. Reports announce him as the wonder of the South. His punting is said
to average 70 yards consistently.

The Davidson outfit is still weakened by the absence of several men who are disabled by injuries or disqualified on
account of scholastic deficiency. Coach Matox states that the same men will start who faced Duke last Friday.

Dr. and Mrs. Arbuckle with their son Howard and daughter Adele, recently paid a visit to Decatur, Ga., for the
centennial of the Presbyterian Church in that city. Dr. Arbuckle was formerly professor of chemistry at Agnes Scott College which
is located there. He and his family resided there for fifteen years and were greatly loved by the entire community.
The trip was made through the country and they were entertained on the Agnes Scott campus upon their arrival. During
their short stay they were the recipients of numerous invitations from old-time friends. Dr. Arbuckle was graduated from Hampden-Sidney College
and later received his Ph.D. at Johns Hopkins. He immediately went to Agnes Scott as professor of chemistry and remained
there until he resigned in 1913 to accept a similar position at Davidson.

CALDWELL OF DUKE LEADS IN SCORING FOR SEASON

Fourteen gridiron players on North Carolina college teams have scored as much as 12 points this season, it is disclosed
by a revised compilation of the grid scores, which includes Saturday's games. Caldwell, of Duke, continues to lead the scores,
having to his credit 31 points as a result of four touchdowns, one field goal, and four successful kicks after
touchdown. Underwood, Carolina flashy back, is runner-up with 27 points which he amassed by scoring two touchdowns, two field goals,
and three points after touchdowns. Then ranking follows:

Tds. F.G. Pt. A.Tds. Ttl.
Caldwell, Duke 4 1 4 31
Underwood, N.C. 2 2 3 27
W. Shuford, State 3 0 0 18
Karleskint, W.F. 3 0 0 18
Sparrow, N.C. 1 2 5 17
Rackley, W.F. 2 0 1 13
Jennette, State 2 0 1 13
McComb, D.C. 2 0 1 13
Blacks, D.G. 2 0 0 12
Chakales, W.F. 2 0 0 12
Hendrix, D.C. 2 0 0 12
Wells, D.G. 2 0 0 12
Bonner, N.C. 2 0 0 12

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

Well, another stumbling block is out of the way, and now remains the greatest game of the year—that with Carolina.
Davidson always fights Carolina particularly hard, and this year, the eleven men who take the field at Chapel Hill will
have more than the ordinary honor to fight for.

It seemed that sports writers over the state took it as a matter of fact that Davidson defeated State this
past Saturday. That might be true, but we don’t like to take any game as a matter of fact thing.
Just at present we are thinking about the game with Hampden-Sidney next Saturday in Charlotte. Some of the fellows seem
to think that this is going to be an easy game, and that the players will not need their support
that afternoon. Such an idea is erroneous. Hampden-Sidney has a good team, and that is not mere “bull” either; that
dope comes from those who have seen this scrapping team play. Remember, they are Presbyterians, too, and that ought to
be a mouthful. They had rather beat Davidson than win from a number of other teams. Just now they want
to beat Davidson like we want to beat Carolina. They've got a big bunchof boys, which, however, is nothing new
when it comes to the games the Wildcats play. In that respect, they will have a big edge over us.
If you don’t think they are good, listen to this: Florida defeated Hampden-Sidney 21 to 6; Florida beat Wake Forest
24 to 3; Wake Forest and Davidson tied. Isn’t that a fair comparison? Further, Hampden-Sidney beat Elon 31 to 0;
Davidson defeated Elon 34 to 0. Furthermore, V. P. I. only nosed out Hampden-Sidney by six points. All of which
makes us want to see the game Saturday. It would be a shame to have but a handful of students
at Charlotte for the game. Be there and urge the Wildcats forward to make this another win.

The Wildkittens seem to do better without several of their regular men than with them. They showed new life—something akin
to the true Wildcat spirit—when they defeated the far heavier Duke freshman team. Kell and Leftwich were the stars of
the backfield and line respectively, and were ably supported by Black in the backfield on defense and Smith and LeFevre
in the line. The whole team was in fighting trim that day, for that matter. They are going to be
given a chance this season to show their fight some more.

Play golf, boys, play golf! The holes are in good shape now, and somebody is going to make a few
trips with the golf team this season. Freshmen are eligible for this team, and a number of them may be
needed. The new athletic equipment that has been placed on the campus is being used now, and according to those
in charge, a systematized form of athletic contests is to be put in on a small scale.

It won’t be long now before football season is over. Then will come basketball. The class games now fluctuate between
interesting games and otherwise. The freshmen team is woefully lacking in material, and any game with them does not hold
much interest. Our idea at first was that the Seniors would win the class championship. The Sophs are showing an
offense that is sweeping everything before it so far.

Sophs Win From Juniors in Exciting Class Game
Juniors Later Win From Freshmen

Cage Tournaments

The second week of cage battles brought victory to the Junior and Sophomore teams, the Sophomores defeating the Juniors 20
to 16, and the Juniors defeating the Freshmen 27 to 13. The Junior-Soph game was played on Tuesday night and
the Junior-Freshman game on the following Thursday evening.

The Junior-Soph battle was a grand rush from the opening of the game until the closing whistle, and the speed
of the players on both sides made this battle intensely interesting. Wilson and Weld played particularly good ball for the
Sophs, each putting the leather sphere through the rim three times. For the Juniors, Simpson and Calhoun were the outstanding
players.

In the Junior-Fresh battle, the Juniors used their second team for the entire last half. Calhoun again starred, but this
time he gained his support from Keerans. Hunt and Guilmour took the honors for the Freshmen, making 10 of the
13 points. The lineups and summaries follow:

Soph. Position. Juniors.
Weld (6)---------- RF ---------- Keerans (4)
Calhoun LF. Calhoun (6)
Wilson (6)--------- CF ---------- Hodgins (2)
McAuley (4) ------ RG ---------- Simpson (4)
Hall (4) ---------- LG ---------- Goodykoontz

Juniors. Position. Freshmen.
Keerans (10) ------ RF ---------- Gidmour (4)
Calhoun (7) ------- LF ---------- Hancock (6)
Hudgins (2) ------- CF ---------- Hunt (2)
Simpson (1) ------- RG ---------- Sturdevant (1)
Goodykoontz (2) --- LG ---------- Green

Mrs. A. H. Brenner, of Augusta, Ga., mother of O. L. Brenner, spent “Home-Coming” weekend at Davidson.

A freshman who comes here to school
Rides to and from home on a mule;
It got frisky one day
And then ran away,
So he beat him to death with a stool.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Columbia Theological Seminary

Columbia Theological Seminary is an approved Seminary for ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is the official Seminary for
the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. The Faculty is composed of men who are chosen for pre-eminence:
1. In Christian Character
2. In Scholarship
3. In Approved Ability
4. As Moulders of Thought
5. As Leaders of Men

The student body is composed of picked men from the choicest Christian homes of the South. Their motives, ability, and
character have been approved by their home church, Presbytery, and college. These young men come to the Seminary to receive
special training for leadership in the most important sphere of human experience.

Columbia Seminary offers to its students thorough training, sympathetic fellowship, helpful cooperation, practical experience, and a true conception of the
meaning of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

WE SELL
18 East Trade St.
Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.
In College Display Room every Friday 10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
