THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

COLLEGIATE PRESS

Found and Discovered—Two trees on the campus which have on their bark carved hearts and initials inside by wood brown. (Said trees are, however, green at present).

(Continued from page 1)

H. B. U. Ratchford is an honor roll man, a leading member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, and the winner of Fresh-Soph and Junior-Senior game for the afternoon. W. E. Milton, Davidson representative on the program committee, secured the speakers for the convention, and Milton, C. F. Monk, and W. H. Branch served as a committee for financing the convention.

On These Cold Days---

GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES

They Satisfy the Appetite

W. G. SHIELDS
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service

H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

A Sweet Breath at all times?

Always carry Wrigley’s to freshen the mouth and sweeten the breath. Soothes nerves, throat and aids digestion.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

The Floridestator

In the mind of most folks, the name “Florida” conjures a vision of flowers, oranges, and sunshine. Perfectly correct, too. But they omit from their mental calisthenics the state’s most abundant and odd species life—the real agent, agentess, and embryo agent. Out in the wild and woolly West men may be men and women governors. But down in the sands and swamps, they are all real estators. It is to the classification and description of the life and surroundings of this queer type of animal that we shall turn our most diligent attention at this time.

We shall begin with the infant of the race, the embryo agent as it were. As soon as he is strong enough to clasp within his feeble hand a perceptive mass, he is presented with a miniature replica of a modern domicile. This he fondles, under competent instruction in lieu of the traditional rattle. Every feature, every detail of its excellence is firmly impressed upon his receptive mind.

Time rolls on and the child becomes larger, more intelligent, and endowed with greater vitality. His curiosity is gradually aroused. He has this tiny toy, termed, in the queen's English, a house—in the vernacular, property. But what shall he do with it? Experience has taught him the necessity of some basic principle. As it is, his house possesses no solid or practical resting place. He waits for a solution. Does he wait in vain? Indeed not! The parent supplies the child with an ample bed of white sand. At least that is what the material is called in the classical language of his time.

Let us now glance ahead a few years. Still under the adult’s pedagogical care, the young has attained a pinnacle of proficiency remarkable in its thoroughness. His perception is acute and his judgment infallible. Sand is no longer just sand. It is a thing of beauty—a scintillating collection of resplendent crystals. Each small grain may soon develop into a full-fledged sheet of green-tinted literature published by the nation’s bureau of engraving. What can be imagined more sweet and inspiring than the sight of a chubby little hand allowing the sands to trickle gently between the indolently extended digits?

Father Time, meanwhile, engages in the same pastime and the sand drops steadily through the swan-neck aperture of his neatly blown vessel. At last, the uninitiated has reached the period of adolescence. Now his progress is rapid. With lightning swiftness, he learns the classical tongue. No longer are such words as “resale,” “mortgage,” “location,” “acreage,” “subdivision,” and “kitchenette” vague empty terms. And with this new knowledge comes a desire to coin a new and better phraseology. His genius is turned to the propounding of living and artistically balanced combinations that more gloriously and attractively set forth the heretofore unnoticed superiorities of his native heath.

Sunset is not sunset. It is rather the descendency of the warmth and glow of the celestial orb’s bright radiancy which makes way for the beaming appearance of his pale, wan sister. “Waterfront concessions?” Leave out those vile and plebeian specifications in such spiritually important expositors of man’s higher nature as deeds, titles, and mortgages. Of much purer and elevating tone is the employment of “riparian rights” as the proper alternative.

Having received his elementary training, the prospective maintainer of Florida’s widespread reputation in its disposition of sun-shined expanses of primeval forest is dispatched either to the Lake District University or else New Venice's recently constructed institution of higher learning that will be named as soon as the barge employed has recovered the sunken administration building. Here he remains until he has developed his latent talent to the point he is able to naturally and successfully turn over to his alma mater faculty his recent acquisitions in the neighborhood for mean pecuniary compensation. Of course, he sells these.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?

The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.Only where it is of his four pieces of property because of the love and respect he bears in his generous heart on behalf of these recipients of his favor. Their unselfishness and attendance upon the other fellow’s interest must make for the success of the graduate real estator. Only the man possessing a remarkable degree of broadmindedness and perspective could visualize the future of these watered habitations of contented alligators. Anxiously the proud father paces the way platform. The train slowly pulls into the station. Then, while the coaches cease their motion, there emerges from the nearest, he who has been the subject and object of our exhaustive investigation in this treatise. Clothed in the conventional dress of his class, this knickered specimen, hatless and coatless, enters into the duties and responsibilities of his strenuous life. 

Upon the wall of his newly rented office is a huge map of his new subdivision. Seated at his mahogany desk, he shares his time between figuring how he may replot two lots in order to make three and admiring the gayly lettered bureau of information bedecking the plate glass window at the front side of this center of agrarian activity. This sign marks the official title by which it was designated the past year.

Apply at 203 Watts. 

Salesman Wanted—Young man with good teeth, not necessarily good-looking. Brown's Mule Tobacco Co.

Wanted—Money.

I hereby request entrance to the Memorial Day races for my speedster. It has been in training for two years. Goat Lewis wants to trade his alarm clock for a canary bird. See him at Pee Wee McCravey once. Top o' East.

Information Wanted—How far is it from East to West? Shall the Twain meet?

True Support
“Your girl is sending these garters to you,
Embarrassed by sight of your bare legs in view;
Your shanks may be short and your ankles well shaped,
But I like to see them more moderately draped,
So, put on these garters;
They'll keep your laundry marks hid from our sight.
Tri-colors waving out from below
Notice “No metal touches you"
Wear them with faith they won't scratch and hurt,
And you'll be protected from external dirt.”

Fights ain't like weddings,
In a fight ya’ know who'll lose!

He—Naw! Debaters medals in his society. H. L. Shaw is an outstanding leader of the rising Senior class. He is a member of O. D. K., editor-elect of Quips and Cranks, member of Alpha Phi Epsilon, and the winner of several society medals.

Melross $1
We can pay more than $9 or $7 for men’s footwear, but why do it when you can get the latest models, the finest imported and domestic leathers and the best workmanship in John Ward Men’s Shoes at those prices? On Display By A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store Today and Tomorrow.

John Ward Men’s Shoes INCORPORATED — REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 191 Hudson St, New York City

The nearest to perfection some people get is being a perfect nuisance.

Warren Ogden (picking up a bowl). “Mary, would you have a nut?”
Mary— "Oh! Warren, this is so sudden.”

Gone—Not Forgotten
I had the swellest little girl,
A frosh co-ed named Esther,
She had looks, but not the brains,
She's not here this semester.

The successful culmination in the intense training of real estate license number three million, six hundred fifty thousand, four hundred thirty’s proud obtainor. It reads:

Wanted—A ride to Charlotte, Saturday at 3:30, First come first served, I. I. Phelt.

REPORTERS’ CLUB
Shootem A. Line
Coete Realty City’s Really Real Realtor (Continued from page 1)
Developer of Waals Paratiive
Walter Anderson, H. I. Douglas, J. Hollingsworth, J. P. McKnight, Ben Wilson, and J. G. Wharton, Florida’s Latest and Greatest Subdivision
Upon suggestion from Earnest Milton, seconded by Harllee Branch, it was decided to entertain the Press Association at a banquet at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel on Saturday noon, May 2. It was also decided that the new men were to be initiated into membership on the night of May 2. The banquet will be presided over by the new officers, this being their first official duty.

Statistician—How many times have we kissed tonight, sweetheart?
Assistant—Twice. You remember when I had to answer the phone?

Oh—A burglar got into my house at three o'clock this morning, while I was on my way home from the club.
My—Did he get anything?
“He certainly did! The poor beggar is in the hospital. My wife thought it was me.”

“I see you have a new roommate.”
“No, I bought this tie myself.”

Joe College says: “She was only a farmer's daughter but she knew her oats.”

Next Question
“Hubby, do you love me?”
“Yes.”
“How much do you love me?”
“How much do you want?”

We know a cashier who wanted to be among the 400 and now he is No. 387.

People who live in glass houses should have stained glass.

Classified Addendum
For Sale—One (1) well broken in caked pipe by Warren Ogden with a slightly cracked bowl.
Lost, Strayed or Stolen—A Davidson Student, last seen in Liverpool. If found return it to the college.

“79 CENTS”
A complete Autostrop Razor with blade and strop. Regular $1.00 razor
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

BALLS
BATS
GLOVES
BASEBALL SUPPLIES
EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS
STUDENT'S STORE
EATS
DRINKS
CLOTHING
PENNANTS
SOAP
R. O. SELLARS