THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

The Davidsonian | Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.......... Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN................. Business Manager

Editorial Staff
CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.......... Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON......................... Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........................... Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON....................... Peanut Parcher Editor
H. B. REEVES........................ Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCH....................... Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW.......................... Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS........................ Alumni Editor
L. D. WHARTON...................... Athletic Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE........................ Advertising Manager
T. A. THOMPSON..................... Circulation Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER.................... Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN...................... Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER....................... Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON..................... Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH....................... Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
J. M. APPLEBY
J. D. LAWS
I. M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
GARNETT McMILLAN
D. M. CALHOUN
J. E. MOORE
W. T. COVINGTON
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
C. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

An entertainment to completely clear off the rest of last year’s debt. The nature of the entertainment will be made
known next week.

The Wildcat five is off on the first Virginia trip a Davidson basketball team has taken in five seasons. The
switch from South Carolina to Virginia was complete, and not a team from the Palmetto state will be met. Beginning
with the Georgia Tech game Tuesday night, the team plays nine games in twelve days—a pretty stiff schedule for any
quint. Such a schedule tests the reserve strength of any team.

The first week in March will be a busy one for the budding speakers of the college. Two college and
two freshman debating teams will be selected in preliminaries to be held the last of the week. In addition, the
Junior speakers will be getting under way in competition for the contest which will be held at Junior Speaking.

Things are beginning to brighten up on the campus again, and in a week or two, unmistakable signs of spring
will be here. The aim of the students should be to help Nature along as far as possible, and keep
the campus in a respectable condition. The campus and lawn between the dormitories cannot look its best if we persist
in throwing papers and scraps out of the windows. The looks of our college depend as much on us as
on Nature. We should co-operate with the authorities in making the college a better place in which to live, both
physically and aesthetically.

The Junior Class is planning a Junior Speaking which will be a credit to the class of '26. They have
been handicapped to some extent by the late change in the dates of the spring holidays. The dates finally decided
upon are April 9-13. The Juniors are not ready to announce their complete plans, but the work is going forward
just the same.

Open Forum With the College Editors

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from
publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The
Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

A LITTLE SUPPORT, PLEASE!

That defeat is no disgrace has been proven a thousand times upon the athletic fields of the nation; scores of
times Wildcat teams bowing to superior forces have brought back to the college undying fame and glory.

In the beginning let it be understood that there is no desire to throw any reflection upon the Davidson wrestlers.
Giving all that they have, fighting to the last second, they have won well the quotation of Kipling—“hold on until
there’s nothing in you, but the will that says ‘Hold on!’” Nor have we any complaint for our coach. Captain
Weems has experience, knowledge of the game, personality and everything desired to make a leader of men. However, it must
be admitted that something is wrong. Up at Navy they have over three hundred men out for the Grecian sport;
down here just a handful. Within the Davidson student body there are men—good men—who would make excellent wrestlers. They are
not interested; they don’t go out; they think it’s not worth their while. Is it their fault entirely? Is not
the lack of interest, support, enthusiasm among the students as a whole prohibitive to the development of this sport to
its normal degree?

Saturday night the Carolina match will ring out the '25 season for Davidson. However, there’s another year coming. Win or
lose, we should begin to develop that spirit which will next year place scores of men upon the mats, that
spirit which envelops our football squad, which guides them on to victory.

DON WHARTON.

On March 20 The Davidsonian will present an entertainment to completely clear off the rest of last year’s debt. The
nature of the entertainment will be made known next week.

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, who directed the Davidson campaign for six hundred thousand dollars to rebuild Chambers, is now directing a
three hundred thousand dollar campaign for Davidson’s sister institution in Charlotte, Queens College. Queens College has an ideal location in
the Queen City of the Carolinas, but like Davidson has long felt the need of a greater endowment. A three
hundred thousand dollar endowment fund would put the college in a position to be of greater service, and would elevate
it to the front rank of Southern girls’ colleges. Davidson wishes Queens the greatest measure of success in her undertaking,
and feels sure that under the direction of Mr. Lockhart, the drive can be put across.

The Freshman Class has been slow, this year, to recognize its responsibility in the matter of raising money for football
sweaters. Before the election of officers just after the Christmas holidays, the class was necessarily directed largely from the outside
by the Court of Control. Then, the class was larger than it now is, and the collection of one dollar
from each member would have more than covered the cost of the sweaters. Now, however, even if all who are
still enrolled pay up, a small extra assessment will have to be made to cover the difference. As the matter
now stands, a fourth of the money must still be raised. The “D” Club, the Court of Control, and the
upper classes are all interested in seeing that the class raises every penny of this money. It is a custom
of long standing that the Freshmen should do this and those who are interested hate to see some action taken
to force the raising of this money. Something must be done, however. The class officers have been chosen to lead
the class. They must take the initiative and help build up a strong class spirit. It is up to the
class itself, now that it has become an organized body, to develop some initiative and see that the matter is
put over successfully.

Spring elections to determine those who will lead the student body during the coming year are not far off. Now
is the time to begin thinking of who will be the best man for each position—for each of us should
vote for the best. For the first time the Freshmen will have a voice in the student body. Their vote
will have a large influence on the outcome for they comprise more than a third of the students. Every man
should think before voting for the result of the elections means a great deal in the character of the student
body.The Court of Control is no longer the officers of the class. It is now merely an advisory and regulatory
body. It would be a pity if the Freshman Class should show itself incapable of self-government. This matter is their
first test. What will the outcome be?

WHY IS A COLLEGE?

Stephen Leacock, in the "McGill Daily," lends his talents to a description of the modern attitude toward university training, with
the result that we see him taking definite issue with the thousands of "students" who seek only that knowledge that
can be applied directly in an obvious way and attempt to turn their college into an apprentice shop. Leacock is
one who would see the development of character and vision, human understanding and moral restraint placed above the mechanical and
standardizing processes of vocational guidance. To quote Leacock:

"Centuries ago, when there first were colleges, they were founded mainly to prepare people to die. This was then the
most important business in life. Later on the idea changed; the college was to prepare people to live. In our
immediate present (our little second of eternity) the idea has changed again. The college is supposed to prepare to make
their living. The college is presumed to be a place where a student is trained to make money. You put
the fees in a slot and you draw out a salary.

"It is this fact which is sending the tidal wave of students to the colleges and which is turning the
college curriculum upside down. There is an increasing demand for what are called 'practical' studies. The student doesn’t want to
know anything. He wants to be taught to do something. Instead of the search after Truth—which has proved unfindable—there is
substituted the demand for an aptitude, for 'knowing how.'

"Hence the flood of vague and futile studies, each alluringly connected with the making of money, decoying the student from
the purpose of education, and defrauding him.

"What really counts for practical success in life is a trained mind, clear thought and the capacity of sustained concentration.
These things are best acquired when we are not thinking about them at all. Like most of the 'practical value'
of education they come to us as backgrounds and incidentally.

"Hence it is that many of the things at college that seem the most unworldly are indirectly the most useful."—The
Austin Kangaroo.

THE "GOOD FELLOW"

Said President Farrand to Cornell Freshmen at the opening of the college year:

"There is no virtue whatever in being a 'roughneck.' What men most admire, in college as well as afterwards, is
a gentleman. Any seeming admiration for rough qualities in a man is not genuine."

What small boy hasn’t idealized the "bad egg"? Who among us does not remember when, as a little boy, he
built up his ideals around the "best scrapper in school" and stood in awe when said "Mickey McGuire" was near?
Fortunately, this admiration for assertion of the primitive combative instinct disappears for most of us at an early age. But
for others, possibly more aggressively "built," it becomes a firmly developed and active principle, which when dragged into college is
nothing short of disgusting. Yet we find it, here, there and everywhere, with a literal stress on the "here." In
college it is modified more or less, and we see the grammar school bully in the guise of the "good
fellow," fondly displaying his love for "wine, women and song" and ever ready to be the life of the crowd.

Unfortunately, these creatures attend the dances and other social gatherings of their fellows, and their ballroom appearance is characterized by
a familiar "hip-pocket-bulge." Some girls, out of peculiar "sympathy," display no outward dislike for the odious "hootch atmosphere" while others
have no reason for such a display. The "good fellow" of the type described, when morals are suggested to him,
will sweep away the subject with a sneer, a wave of the hand, and a half-muttered reference to being "Sunday
Schoolish" or some such ridiculous "blah" which bears no relation whatever to the question of common decency.

When boisterousness, drunkenness, and roughness become the standards of social popularity in our colleges, then has the sad time arrived
when that host of trouble-making, bespectacled pests known as reformers, find opportunity to step forth in tarnished glory and point
an accusing finger at higher education—The Rice Owl.

"LEADERS WHO ARE FOLLOWERS"

Much talk is heard today about the number of students who are careless about their morals and personal habits, who
do too much drinking. Rumors are prevalent concerning the "wet" parties and wild times of the student community. Much of
this is of course unjustified, but there are a significant few who indulge in practices which are a disgrace to
the generation.

In this minority are the many would-be college leaders either as active participants or as conformists. Organizations of students whose
purpose it should be to foster a better sort of law-abiding spirit are often most prominent in the promotion of
practices which are questionable in character and at times definitely reprehensible. The "leaders" are followers of the mob and exhibit
either an astonishing lack of responsibility or an unforgivable misunderstanding of their mission in life. If they have designs on
campus political jobs their actions can be justified by their fear of public opinion; if they are Juniors they are
afraid that those whose influence is essential to their advancement will think they lack courage. In those, however, who have
already attained their ambitions, the conformist attitude is incomprehensible. They live down to the level instead of attempting in their
own way to raise the general level of intelligence.

Until prominent students and their influential organizations take a stand for what they know in their innermost selves to be
right, the excessive breaking of the law in university communities will never be eliminated to any great extent.—The Michigan Daily.

THE LAY OF THE CROSSWORDER

Ave! Blithe sprite of mystic squares
That coins paroles, I wit not where
I've yielded to the lure
With choice vocab
And gift of gab,
I eschew any cure.

I now can emulate the bards
Who with their ilk chant runes of swards,
And put cross-worders on their guards
To catch a nouveau word.
My speech is freer
Than any rhea,
Or any nomadic Kurd.

I rack my brains nor take the pains
No more to greet the rustic swains,
Or chat with doltish oafs or janes
In comfort, peace and rest
Because I know
Enough to show
My skill among the best.

The vista vile of letter file
Or any genus of that pile
Intrigues me not. I know my "ile":
And know old Webster’s works:
A ring-tailed gnu,
A Latin shrew
Or belled and towered kirk.

I now define with tones supine
A Grecian mount or Attic vine,
Or beasts that thrive on turpentine,
With supercilious mien.
Egad! Gazooks!
My coups, and ems,
I ween.

I scan the lettered lexicon
And find new things beneath the sun—
Archaic quip of Celtic pun—
And halberd means a mace
And that, I trow,
Is just enow
To fill this empty space.

But Zounds! Eheu! This sure won’t do.
I've struck a snag that can’t come through;
My mood has changed from bright to blue,
I'm robbed of all my ease.
But then I say,
"Why, here’s Roget"
In hoc signo vinces.

(Note: The above is to be taken with a grain of a four-letter word meaning the side-kick of pepper.)

No, Tillie, Ben Turpin got that way long before cross-word puzzles ever came out. Our idea as to the origin
of cross-word puzzles is that they started at the Tower of Babel. Think of being there and hearing cussing in
ninety-nine divers tongues! Sapristo! Iskabibble! Carramba! L’enfer! Ponto! Nell’s bells! Hoch der kaiser! Alaganzam! Sckrbstwky! (This last is a mixture
of Chinese and Russian).

She—"What’s the French word for 'woman' in Latin?"
He—"Look in any dictionary—you'll always find woman below man."

Deacon Jones was laying the new carpet while his worthy spouse occupied herself with the latest cross-word out of the
Tickerville Tri-weekly Tidings. The deacon got along pretty well until his hammer slipped and the heavy instrument hit his thumb
a hefty whack.

"!!XX??! bring me that arnica quick," he bellowed.

"Just a minute," said Mrs. Jones, "I was looking everywhere for a three-letter word meaning an obstruction in a river,
and you said it three times in one breath."
