THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

Town News

Miss Winnie Potts, of Thomasville, spent the week-end with her parents in Davidson. On last Thursday, 22 members of Mrs.
Wooten’s Auxiliary circle gathered at the home of Mrs. Arbuckle in the morning for an all-day meeting. The morning was
spent in work for the Crossnore Church kitchenette. Dish towels were made and various other articles of equipment were either
given by the individual members or made by the circle. In the afternoon, several other members came who were not
able to be there in the morning. When the work was over, all enjoyed the regular program of the meeting.

Miss Kalista Hood has returned to St. Mary’s in Raleigh, to take up the spring work.

The many friends of Miss Mary Black will be glad to hear that she will return to Davidson from Dr.
Long’s Sanatorium at Statesville this week. Her stay has been long, but she is now sufficiently strong to return home.

This past week, Walter Brown has been kept from school by influenza. His friends are glad to see him out
once more.

Miss Margaret McConnell and her friend, Miss Mary Alice Culp, both of Gastonia, N. C., spent the week-end with Mrs.
Wilson MacConnell.

Miss Lois Smith spent the week-end at home with her parents.

Literary Societies

Pandemic

The Pandemic Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday evening at 7:00 o'clock. After the society was called to
order, the members were led in prayer by J. E. Moore. The usual preliminaries of roll call, business, and the
reading of the minutes of the last meeting were then disposed of and a short program was given. The question
for debate was, Resolved, That vocational training be taught in secondary schools. The affirmative was upheld by Milton and Hollingsworth,
while C. M. S. McIlwaine and L. L. Deck upheld the negative. A motion that each Freshman present be responsible
for bringing the absent Freshmen next time was made by Harry Price and passed. J. E. Moore moved that preliminaries
of the Fresh-Soph debate be held on Monday, April 6. The motion was carried.

Eumenean

The fact that many members of the Eumenean Society were absent did not detract from the interesting program that was
presented. Fred Smith opened the program with a short story, The Christening. As the negative members for debate were absent,
J. D. Laws and W. C. Ramsey were appointed to uphold this side of the question. The affirmative speakers were
J. F. Hollingsworth and Julian Lake. Shrewd and logical argument was given on the subject, Resolved, That a system of
vocational education should be adopted by the secondary and preparatory schools of the State. The appointed members of the negative
side not only won the decision of the judges but also that of the house on the vote taken at
the close of the discussion. At the conclusion of the program, it was decided to hold a feed next Thursday
night at which time a novel program will be rendered.

Since 1868

THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GOOD SHOES STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no
feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.” Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always
good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE: SHOES LUGGAGE

One question that always arises in the mind of every serious thinking college man is, “What am I going to
do after graduation or during vacation?” This is an important question, worthy of serious consideration. In a very definite way,
the life insurance business offers you the opportunity for success. In no field is there a greater chance for the
college man. Write to us for particulars.

LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. A. W. McALISTER PRESIDENT H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

The friends of Dr. George Withers will regret to hear that the condition of his two-year-old son has not changed
for the better this week.THE SQUARE
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

MUSE’S
ATLANTA
The Style Center of the South
The Store of the Southern Colleges
WILL SHOW ITS LINE OF FINE CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, SHOES AND HATS
Lobby, West
March 30th and 31st
THEIR MR. ROBERT HALE WILL GREET YOU

Hangchow College Needs Many Things

A recent pamphlet gives the following information of interest about Hangchow College, Hangchow, China, where the Davidson students are supporting
a missionary-teacher, Warren Cox:

Hangchow College

This institution is chartered by the District of Columbia under a Board of Trustees representing equally the Foreign Mission Board
of the two great Presbyterian Churches of the United States. It furnishes a regular arts course, majoring in education. The
college is located in the suburbs of Hangchow, the capital of the Province of Chekiang, a province with a population
equal to about one-fifth of the population of the United States. The City of Hangchow is the most famous in
all China for its beauty of location. It has also been a center of education and of art.

About two hundred men have come from this institution as full college graduates, of whom about sixty have gone into
the ministry, about seventy-five into business, about thirty-five into the Y.M.C.A. and other religious organizations as secretaries, and the remainder
have become engineers, physicians, literary workers, etc. At present, there is a student body of two hundred and fifty-six young
men, a foreign staff of sixteen, and a Chinese staff of about twenty men.

After a careful study of their report by the faculty, the local Board of Control, and the Board of Trustees
in the States, it was decided to accept the recommendations and to work out a plan for equipment that might
make possible these recommendations. This plan proposes the following as its more immediate needs:

1. Science Hall ---------------------- $38,000
2. Equipment for Science Hall -------- 10,000
3. Two Double Residences for Chinese Staff ------------------------- 6,000
4. Residence for the President -------- 6,000
5. Gymnasium ------------------------ 17,000
6. Two Dormitories ------------------- 36,000
7. Library Building ------------------- 16,000
8. Books for Library ------------------ 5,000
9. Campus Improvement, Enlargement of Reservoir, Purchase of More Land ------------------------- 6,000
10. Residences for Foreign Staff ------- 5,500

It is the intention of Hangchow College to limit its future student body to five hundred and in the future
to improve the quality of its work rather than tend to mass production in education. Regardless of what developments may
take place in Government Education, Hangchow College will be able to function worthily as an institution of higher learning, contributing
its full part in building up the future Christian leadership of China.

FLAKE LAIRD CAPTAINS QUINT NEXT SEASON

Red Laird, the most prominent athlete in Davidson College, was elected captain of the 1925-26 basketball team at a recent
meeting of the basketball letter men. At a meeting of the Athletic Council the same day, Joe M. Garrison was
selected to manage the next year’s quint, while E. S. Christenbery for the Freshmen.

Flake Laird is a member of the Junior class and his home is in Decatur, Ga. He has been attending
Davidson for the last three years and is one of the best athletes we have, having made letters in football,
basketball, and baseball. The team is assured of success for the next season while under the leadership of “Cap’n” Flake.

Joe Garrison is also a Junior and is likewise from the state of Georgia, his home being at Covington. His
college days have all been spent at Davidson, where he is one of its most popular students. Joe has had
experience and it is without a doubt a fact that Joe will be one of the best managers that the
team has ever had.

Christenbury hails from Stony Point, N.C., and he is a hard worker and the “Freshies” will be fortunate indeed in
having him for their manager.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24
Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or
Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

We Have It—Candy For Easter—White Drug Co.
