THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925

WELCOME HIGH SCHOOL RUNNERS GET READY FOR STATE APRIL FIRST

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.

Tilson Lines Up Track Squad for Gobbler Meet, Coach Pushes Men Through Daily Grind—Prospects Fair Under Captain Grey

After putting his track candidates through a couple of weeks of strenuous training, Coach Tex is now getting a line on his men, and is fast lining them up for the first meet the last of this month. Every afternoon about 30 men can be seen jogging around the track with the steady gait which develops the muscles into hard, tough sinews. In addition to the 30 men trying for places on the varsity team, there are about six or eight men trying to place on the Freshman squad. The prospects this year are fair, with the best bets in the hurdles, jumps, javelin, and distances. There are also good men for the dashes and discus and shot, but these men must develop a lot yet. Of the letter men out, Gracey is the outstanding one, with Red Anderson and Red McComb running a good second. In addition to these, there is Williford in the distances, and Spec McConnell on the mile. Of the other candidates out, McMillan looks especially good on the broad jump, with Goodykoontz and Brand good in the dashes, Parker in the mile and half-mile, Bohannon and McAulay in the shot and discus, and Webb in the two-mile. George Smith and Twist Matthews are working hard, and should place before the season is over.

Sport Flashes
By DON WHARTON

We don’t know who it is up to, but our basketball team should be given a banquet sometime soon. It was beyond a doubt the most successful crew that Davidson has turned out upon the court in many years.

Elsewhere in this issue we are running a schedule of the “big five” baseball teams of North Carolina. The season opens here on April 1, when the Techmen come over for the first of two games with the Wildcats.

N. C. State has been picked by many who are in the know in the baseball world as the winner of the championship. They had 12 letter men back for the team. But then the Southern Conference said that Red Johnston and Dutch Holland, catcher and third baseman, were ineligible for the season—thereby giving Coach Doak’s plans a knockout blow.

It seems reasonable that the championship should be decided upon the same basis as any baseball league—percentage of games won and lost. Each of the five schools plays a representative schedule, meeting each of the others.

The old plan of deciding the champ by percentage of games won and lost is the fairest, though now and then it favors the little fellow.

The TATE BROWN CO.
Spalding Reach Goldsmith Goods
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
“Equipment for Every Sport”
18 East Trade

MANY ATHLETES RECENTLY INITIATED INTO “D” CLUB

The athletic association has bought a good number of boxing gloves and the sport is increasing in popularity. What is done this year will largely determine what kind of a team we will have next year. For, with Captain W. C. helping things along, there is no reason why Davidson can't keep up with the other schools along this line.

The “D” Club has added in the last two weeks 29 new men to its number. Some of these had made their letter before this year, while others of them had not. The initiation required two nights to be carried out on account of the large number who were taken in. Just what the initiation was like nobody knows except those who were in it. From the sounds that came from the place of the initiation, one could get a right good idea of the nature of the affair. The most important feature of the program was that which came after 12 o'clock when the “D” men got out on the warpath with their paddles and poles. The Freshmen hied themselves to havens of safety, while many upper classmen wished that they likewise had sought concealment. The damage done, however, was very minor, as the strokes of the paddles were directed upon articles which by the aid of kind nature were able to be mended.

The following men were initiated: J. H. McConnell, R. E. Boggs, T. F. Staley, S. W. Summers, T. S. Baker, W. M. Black, H. L. Vance, L. W. Wells, W. D. Cox, L. P. Cox, N. G. Patterson, J. M. Trotter, A. F. Simpson, J. W. Anderson, A. B. Williford, W. A. McAulay, A. W. McAllister, N. E. Sappenfield, E. H. Bohannon, W. H. Leggette, Joe McConnell, J. F. Pinckney, R. W. Oeland.

Athletics will soon be booming here when the track season starts on the 28th of this month. With all four of the regulars graduating this spring it was time to look into the future.

It is rare that the death of one man who is not a leader in governmental departments so generally touches the people as that of Walter Camp. His place will not be filled—March in Blacksburg and the baseball season opens with two games with Oak Ridge. Davidson has taken a forward step in changing from the old style of running tennis to a much more modern one. Although the Davidson teams in the past have done great work upon the courts—especially in the state tournaments—this will mean further advancement. Imitator of no one—men model themselves after him. His knowledge of sports from the standpoint of both player and coach and sports writer exceeded that of any man in the world, while his influence was tremendous. In the recital Friday the whole scale of the versatile poet's composition will be run, and the presentation will be in a manner that will leave the audience thrilled with the power of the rendition of Kipling’s splendid verse.

MISS WAMBAUGH
(Continued from page 1)
The Davidson Golf team played their first match of the season when they lost to Salisbury Country Club, Saturday afternoon in a close and well-played match on the latter's links. The two teams were unusually evenly matched, each team winning two matches and the fifth resulted in a draw. The Wildcats were represented by Malloy, Reeves, Milhous, Gray, and Jones. Reeves won his match over Walker, taking two points. Red Malloy played against Killingsworth, who played wonderful golf, and won three points. Jones won by one point over Cook and Gray dropped his match to Thomas, and Milhous played to a draw, which gave Salisbury six points to Davidson's three. The Wildcats did unusually well considering the course was new to most of the players and that it was the first match of the season. A return match will be played with Salisbury sometime this week on the Davidson links.

Fresh Show Good Form In Early Ball Practice
Rawson’s Squad Has Some Fair Hitters and Fielders on Hand
The Freshman class will put out one of the best teams Davidson has seen in recent years if the players show up as well as they have so far. Coach Rawson will have a hard time picking his men for there are a lot of heavy hitters and snappy fielders that must necessarily be left out. The infield is like the proverbial Rock of Gibraltar, with Arrowood, an all-state first baseman, and McGeachy, another stellar performer, battling for the hot corner. Dulin, a great fielder and hitter, with a great arm, McAulay and Harrison are contending for the keystone, and McColgan is sewing up the initial sack. Pitchers showing up well are Cathey, Vick, and Oden, right-handers, and Poole and Leight, southpaws. McNeill, Grey, Johnson, and Edgar, all good catchers and throwers, are out for that position. In the outfield, Johnson, Morris, Maulden, Wilson, and Wearn, are likely candidates, all showing good form and all likely to be retained as extra hitters.

You’ll always find a Good Show at THE VICTORY
Programme for the week
THURSDAY AND FRIDAY March 19-20
“Along Came Ruth”---with good comedy
SATURDAY, MARCH 21
“Three of a Party.” Plenty pep! punch! pathos! Also comedy, “The Luck of the Foolish.”
MONDAY AND TUESDAY March 23-24
“Triumph” (fine picture) Pathe News
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25
“Who is to Blame?” Social Hygiene failure
COMING! FRIDAY AND SATURDAY March 27-28
“North of 36,” a picture bigger and better than “The Covered Wagon”

First Golf Encounter Scheduled With Tech
Quadrangular Meet in Charlotte if Duke and Wake Forest Join Teams
A good schedule has been arranged for the Wildcat golf team for this spring and some of the best clubs in the section will be met by the locals, which should arouse a great deal of interest in the game. The best match of the season is expected to be when the Wildcats meet Georgia Tech in Charlotte. The management is also trying to get Wake Forest and Duke to enter the meet, but as yet these schools have not been heard from. This meet will probably take place about the 18th of April. More interest than ever before is being taken in golf this year, and some of the best material is available. The team which will probably be composed of Reeves, Milhouse, Malloy, Gray, Jones, Earnhart, and Jimmy Trotter, is expected to emerge victors in the majority of the matches.

The many friends of Mrs. Olin White will regret to hear that she has been sick with influenza this week and so far has shown little improvement.

SORE THROAT
For tonsillitis or hoarseness, gargle with warm salt water. Rub Vicks over throat and cover with a hot flannel cloth. Swallow slowly small pieces.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.