THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

~~ Staple and Fancy Groceries ~~
Quantity Quality Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
"after every meal"
Take care of your teeth! Use Wrigley's regularly. It removes food particles from the crevices. Strengthens the gums. Combats acid mouth. Refreshing and beneficial!

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
$$$
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Um! Those Frozen Eclairs!!
Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Age 12—"Gimme an onion. I gotta get this cigarette off my breath."
Age 18—"Gimme a cigarette. I gotta get this onion off my breath."

One of our well-known Sophs went to Charlotte and called up his girl. "Sister," he said, "I'm coming by at 8:30. Please be ready because I've got a U-Drive-It by the hour and I don't want to waste any time."

It was reported last week that Buster Grey, the golf hound, would give up the good game. Recent reports say, however, that he has had his pants vulcanized and will continue to play.

"What year are you?"
"This is my fifth."
"Taking your M.A.?"
"No, taking my time."

Our idea of a soft job: A professional ice-skater in the summertime.

Somebody should start a girls' school at Reno and teach 'em husbandry.

Said the sandpaper: "I'm a rough baby, I am."

Moffett—"I was glad to see you at the 'Y' service Sunday."
Spencer—"So that's where I was!"

FAMOUS AIRS
Hot ——— tight.
What ——— ish.

"Have a nice trip to Virginia?"
"How did you find the roads?"
"By following the ruts."

"Do you know the difference between the ace of spades and the ace of clubs?"
"No."
"Well, you'd make a lovely bridge player."

Bible Prof.—"Who defeated the Israelites?"
Bohannon—"I dunno, I never keep up with those bush-league clubs."

"Yes," said Doc Brown, "I have such hard luck that if it was raining soup everybody but me would have a bathtub and I'd have a fork."

"If ignorance is bliss," said the Professor to Wood Brown, "then you'd better get your life insured; you're apt to die of joy."

They say money talks. I guess that's correct. It always says "Goodbye" to me.

Jim Pinkney thinks an itching palm is a tropical plant. Well, he has nothing on Abe Lincoln. Abe thinks a mascot is something to sleep on.

"This curio," said the museum attendant, "is two thousand years old."
"You can't kid me," said Red McComb. "This is only 1925."

Policeman (with prisoner)—"Your Honor, this man was caught picking pockets at the circus."
Judge—"Ten dollars fine."
Policeman—"Your Honor, he has only five."
Judge—"Then turn him loose until he gets the rest."

Mother (proudly)—"This is my son, Mrs. Smith. Isn't he a bright little fellow?"
Fresh Westbrook—"What was that clever thing I said yesterday, Mother?"

"No love affair is a real love affair until you've seen her in perspective."

"Say, it's all right to be modern and all that, but, by gosh, I'm still decent."

"What is the difference between a modern and an old-fashioned kiss?"
"About five minutes."

Woods—"Well, I answered a question in class today."
Broyles—"What answer did you give?"
Woods—"Present."

She—"How'd you get by in English without studying?"
He—"I worked a crossword puzzle my prof couldn't figure out."

Sam—"Com' along to mah house and play Mah Jongg."
Bo—"Niggah, does yo' think Ah wants to ruin mah jazz aplayin' those classical numbahs?"

"What are you doing now?"
"Farming."
"Pretty wet out your way?"
"Naw, I'm not raisin' corn."

Once—"So you tried to hold her hand, eh? What did she say?"
Other—"She said, 'Do you do that?' So I says, 'Yeh, why?'"
One—"And then?"
Other—"Well, she says, 'I'm awfully glad, because I'm always willing to amuse chil-dren,’” like to do. There are two kinds of girls—those you can kiss and those you don’t want to.

Polly—“Flake thinks he’s an awfully hard Anna—“He is. Flake wasn't born; he was quarried.”

“You surely did plow up the line today.”
“Yes, and now I’ve got to go home and line up the plow.”

BY THE TIME SOME GIRLS GET ALL DRESSED UP, IT'S TOO LATE TO GO.
—Harvard Lampoon.

Exchanges

The writing of 600 words on the back of a postage stamp has led Wesley Taylor, class of ’20, of Trinity (Duke) to claim the world's record for fine writing. Taylor inscribed two of Lincoln’s complete speeches on the back of an ordinary stamp.

“Sophs dine today, campus patrolled by ‘vengeful Fresh.” Such is the headline we read in the “Columbia Spectator.” The fresh, under the leadership of their vice-president, watched o’er the campus with a vigilant eye to see that every Soph received his share of attention.”

A school for cheer leaders has been organized at the University of Iowa. It will be under the supervision of the department of speech and physical training, and will include voice training and gymnastics.

Cast your eye over this extract from a writeup in the V. P. T. paper concerning a wrestling meet: “We took four decisions from Davidson and ‘Deacon’ Lineberry came into his own when he threw the mighty Summers of Davidson.”

Paavo Nurmi, the Finnish running star, has been invited and has accepted an invitation to run at the Tech Relays in Atlanta, on April 18.

According to the “Hornet,” Furman University’s baseball schedule includes two games with Georgia, two with Georgia Tech, two with Mercer, and as a windup, two with Notre Dame in Greenville.

The Carolina Glee Club is attempting to raise $5,000 in order to attend the National Conference of Music Supervisors in Kansas City, March 31 through April 5. The club has the honor of having received a special invitation to this conference.

The faculty of the University of North Carolina is taking steps to prevent the passing of the Poole resolution to forbid the teaching of Darwinism in the state schools and colleges. President Chase, of the University, spoke before the House committee defending human liberty and opposing the bill which threatened to “abridge the liberty of one class of people.”

CALENDAR

Thursday—
7:15—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:15—Philanthropic Literary Society.

Saturday—
7:30—Movies: The Thundering Herd.

Sunday—
10:15—Volunteer Band.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:15—"Y" Vesper Service.

Monday—
7:00—Court of Control.

Tuesday—
7:15—Metrophilian Literary Society.
7:15—Pandemic Literary Society.

Wednesday—
9:30—Bible Discussion Groups.

and the Constitution, Lincoln and the Constitution. The following prizes will be offered to the seven men who will compete in the final contest at Los Angeles: First prize, $2,000; second, $1,000; third, $500; fourth, $450; fifth, $400; sixth, $350; and seventh, $300.

The Senior and Junior Oratoricals together with the two inter-collegiate debates scheduled are occupying the attention of Davidson’s best speakers, but there are a half-dozen or more who are out for this contest, and it is expected that Davidson men will give a good account of themselves.

Two Hebrews walking down a park on a cold day—
1st Hebrew: Why don't you say something?
2nd Hebrew: Why don't you? Do you think I want to get my hands cold.

Standard Chaparral.

Swimming Instructor: Can you swim very well?
Fresh Ebey: No sir; but I can sure wade.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

BALLS
BATS
GLOVES
PENNANTS
LEWIS
BASEBALL SUPPLIES
EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS
STUDENT'S STORE
EATS
CLOTHING
SOAP
DRINKS
R. O. SELLARS