MR. R. M. MILLER OF CHARLOTTE
Davidson College Loses Staunch Friend When Death Claims President of Alumni

ALUMNI NOTES

Announcement has been received that Mr. Robert Alexander Hamilton has been married to Miss Louise Eugenia Herron, at Dubuque, Iowa.
Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton will be at home in New York City after November 1st.

Rev. W. A. Murray and family of Lincolnton, N. C., expect to move to Charlotte in the near future. Rev.
Mr. Murray, who has been pastor of the Presbyterian Church there, has given up his position on account of ill
health.

Rev. Morrison Strange Huske is to be married to Miss Elizabeth Cox Lord, of Anchorage, Ky., in the near future.

James Douglass Barnhardt, of Lenoir, was one of the 26 out of the 97 applicants to pass the bar examinations
and granted license to practice law by the supreme court.

Arthur J. McEwen, who holds a position with the Pyramid Motor Co., of Charlotte, has been married to Miss Lillian
Stallings of Charlotte. They will be at home there after October 15th.

Announcement has been received that Mr. Thomas Wayne Dupree will be married to Miss Helen Maybelle Holt at Memphis, Tenn.

Dr. Philip Barbour Price, of Baltimore, Md., will be married in the near future, according to reports received here.

P. J. Story, ’24, who is teaching school in Salisbury, spent the weekend on the campus.

Mr. Clayton Furchess, ’25, was a visitor on the hill during the weekend.

Mr. W. C. Hodgin, of the class of ’21, is now located with the Beck Realty Co., of Clearwater, Fla.
He looks very good in the uniform of a Real Estate Salesman (white knickers).

Mr. George Hodgin, ’24, and Fatty Campbell, ex-’22, are connected with the accounting department of the Skinner Machinery Co., of
Dunedin, Fla.

R. M. Miller, Jr., of Atlantic City, Rendered Valuable Service For College

Mr. R. M. Miller, Jr., of the class of 1876, died in Atlantic City Sunday afternoon, October 11th, at five
o’clock. The daily press has carried an extended account of his successful business career. Here it is wished to record
something of his interest in and enthusiasm for his Alma Mater.

Mr. Miller was elected president of the Alumni Association at the commencement meeting in May, 1916, and served until 1922.
During his term of service, he was instrumental in reviving interest in the Alumni Association and making it a means
of coordinating the interest of the alumni and doing something in a constructive way for the college. In 1918 he
endowed a fund to provide annually the Alumni Freshman medal given to the member of the Freshman class making the
highest scholastic record. In 1920 he was elected by the Alumni Association as a trustee of the college, but declined
to serve, requesting that he be relieved of this responsibility.

Mr. Miller was general chairman of the Six Hundred Thousand Dollar Campaign Fund, giving liberally of his time and splendid
business talent to the promotion and work of the campaign and he was likewise a liberal supporter and provided a
Memorial Room in the New Chambers building.

A letter came to the college from Mr. Miller within the past ten days in which he stated that next
commencement would be the fiftieth anniversary of his class and that he was already planning for a reunion of his
class and that he had plans revolving in his mind that would be of interest to the college. In the
passing of Mr. Miller, Davidson has lost a staunch friend and a most loyal and devoted alumnus. The college was
represented at the funeral by members of the faculty and officers of the institution.

Twenty-Five Former Davidson Men Are Enrolled as Students at Carolina

A letter was recently received by the Alumni Editor of the Davidsonian from J. A. Thompson, ’25, who is taking
a postgraduate at the University of North Carolina, mentioning twenty-five former Davidson men who are now at Carolina, some taking
postgraduate work and others undergraduate work. Following is a complete list of the former “Wildcats.”

C. K. Brown, ‘21, Economics.
A. Wooten, '22, M.A., in Chemistry.
W. K. McCain, ’22, Medical School.
“Bugs” Robinson, ’22, M.A., in Mathematics.
H. A. Morris, ’23, Law School.
Jack Hunter, ’24, Medical School.
P. M. Patterson, ’25, Fellow in Botany.
O. M. Brown, ’25, M.A., in History.
J. A. Thompson, ’25, Fellow in Romance Languages.

The following undergraduates are at Carolina also: S. W. Black, ex-’25; Watt Cooper, L. B. Singleton, and E. S. Avery,
all of the class of ’26; Rudy Morrison, Dwight Currie, J. T. Jones, Howard Hubbard, and Jim Potts, of the
class of ’27; and the following of last year's freshman class: D. C. Ewing, R. B. Arthur, R. A. Love,
A. S. Caldwell, and R. I. Prevost.

G. D. FLEMING, JR., WRITES INTERESTING LETTER

The following letter has been received from G. D. Fleming, Jr. of Miami, Fla. by Mr. J. L. Jackson, the
college treasurer: Mr.F. 1. Jackson, Davidson, N. C. | Dear Mr. Jackson: | I haven't heard anything of the Alma
Mater in quite a while, so am ordering the Davidsonian today, as I am always interested in any Davidson news.
I am vice-president of the company and we are now where we can look around us after being in the
hole for a long time and we hope to be firmly established in three or four months. No doubt you
have heard of the Florida boom and we are in it as we are in the middle of it here.
By it I mean Miami as it now comprises 350,000 persons while it had 29,000 when I was in school
and is growing fast. If you ever have the opportunity of coming down this way I would be pleased to
show you around the city. Best regards to you and the college. G. D. Fleming, Jr.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS WIN

The Wildcats. The Quakers, although outplayed in nearly every respect, put up a scrappy game and fought hard the entire
time. They succeeded in making only one first down, while Davidson garnered 12. But in the punting game the Quakers
averaged practically the same. But the Davidson backs gained over six times as much as did those of Guilford. The
game was cleanly fought, there being a few penalties and these far between. The following was the line-up:

Wells, Davidson. Position. Guilford.
Arrowood Reece
Lindley Hoyle
Warrick (c)

THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1925

Score by quarters:

ALUMNI PRESIDENT IS DEAD

Many Davidson Students are now at Chapel Hill.

Davidson ------------- 0
Guilford ------------- 0

Referee: Issard (W. and L); umpire: Harrell (Carolina); headlinesman: Kirkpatrick (N. C. State). Scoring—Touchdowns: McComb, Leggette, Harrison, Arrowood; point after
touchdown: McComb, Allen; first downs: Guilford 1, Davidson 12; ground gained: Davidson 241; average punts: Davidson 39. Substitutions—Guilford: Holt. Davidson:
Green, Mitchell, Nisbet, Harrison, Allen, Maulden, Laws, Wearn, McGeachy, Harmon, Long, McNeil, Bo- Pinkney, Vance, Baker, R. Grey, Hendrix, Black,
Farrell, Christen- Hudgins, Davis, Joyner, Peterson. Guilford: Cox, Egbert, Shannon, Bury.

Miss Mary Richards, who is teaching at Mebane, N.C., has been ill with influenza at the home of her parents,
Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards, but is decidedly better.

Mr. and Mrs. Stacey, of Gulfport, Miss., are visiting their daughter and son-in-law, Mr. and Mrs. Kaufelt.

NONE TOO SMALL

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE

I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

Guilford 40,

"EVERYTHING MUSICAL"
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
SHEET MUSIC
OLDEST IN THE STATE

(Continued from page 1)

added the extra point with a dropkick squarely between the bars. This ended the scoring for the day. In the
last quarter, the varsity entered into the game for three minutes and failed to gain as consistently as the second
team had been able to do. But they were soon replaced by other reserves who finished the game. The game
gave great promise of future Wildcat teams. Allen, Leggette, Harrison, Ritchie, and Grey, all with one or more years at
Davidson, showed up exceedingly well. The punting of Leggette and also neat gains torn off through the line brought him
once more into the limelight. Harrison’s brilliant broken field running was easily the sensation of the day. Allen was on
the job at offense, and his defense work was also worthy of note. At one time he intercepted a Quaker
pass with one hand that would have gone for a nice gain had it been completed. In the line, Grey,
the newly found guard, kept up his good work and frequently smeared the plays of his opponents. Maulden, at the
other guard, also played well. Ritchie tore through the Guilford lines several times and threw the backs for a loss.
He also starred in a new role, his kick-off after the touchdown in the third quarter going far down the
field, a kick worthy of Dick Grey himself. In the Guilford line, Captain Warrick, at center, was in every play
on the defense and did good work. His work on the offense was also notable, his passes always being straight
and sure. Hendrickson, in the backfield, was the best ground gainer for the visitors.

ANDREW MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.

LEST YOU FORGET WE ARE STILL GLAD TO BE OF SERVICE TO YOU

If you need a suit, either one or two-trouser suit, let us show you before you make a decision. Knickers,
extra trousers. Sport Sweaters, Golf Stockings, Golf

BELK BROTHERS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
