2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

All aboard for Charlotte! We don't know just now whether we are going on a special train or a bus, but we are going just the same. We, in the sense used above, is expected to mean almost every member of the Davidson student body. You mustn't fail to see this game. It’s going to be a corker. No matter what the outcome, you are going to be proud of the Davidson Wildcats, and you ought to be there to cheer them on in the face of a possible onslaught by the already-declared state champions.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

It is too optimistic to say that we are going to beat Wake Forest, but we do say that we are going to give them a fight. Wouldn't it be fine to hold them to a scoreless tie? Wouldn’t it be still better to score a touchdown and win over them, or even three points?

The team had to fight hard against Wofford last Saturday, but not as much as they will against Wake Forest. The Wofford line was like a brick wall most of the game, and it was seldom that the backs could wiggle through for gains. The whole Davidson team played well that day. But we saw Flake Laird pull a stunt that won’t occur again for some time to come. The ball had been snapped to the quarterback, who was holding it out for the halfback to grab, planning to go out of bounds. But before that halfback reached there, Laird had broken through, grabbed the ball as it was loosely held by the quarterback, and the pigskin was Davidson's. It took a fast man to do that.

To sing the praises of all the players would take more than a measly column, so we'll just mention Grey, Hendrix, Vance, Ritchie, and the ends, Pinkney and Bohannon. In fact, we ought to have named the whole eleven. Rip Major says that Davidson will have a good team before the season is over and that North Carolina teams had better watch. Just now we would like to say that the South Carolina teams had better watch the Wofford team rip its way through to some victories, for it already has a good team.

You've heard of the four horsemen of Notre Dame. That name has been applied to the Wake Forest backfield, and they have a foursome that loves to clip off yards at a fast pace better than anything else. Our backfield is speedy, too. So watch out. There is going to be 10 pounds difference per man in the line Saturday, but then Davidson will make up for some of that difference by the spirit of fight the boys have.

Last year Thomas Baker played one of his most brilliant games in Charlotte against Clemson. And so did Vance. Tom and Harry will both be in their regular positions that day, for Coach Monk has shifted Baker to tackle, and Vance remains as he is. Just watch something from these two men in that game. We are hoping for a repetition of the Clemson performance, not only of these men, but of every man on the team.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED'S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE | THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

HOW DAVIDSON WILDCATS AND DEMON DEACONS STACK UP
Place—Wearn Field, Charlotte.
Time—3:00.
Coaches—“Hank” Garrity, Wake Forest. “Monk” Younger and “Tex” Tilson, Davidson.

Probable Line-ups.
Wake Forest. Weight. Position. Davidson. Weight.
Riley 165 LE Pinkney 159
Collier 180 LT Laird 178
Johnson 215 LG Vance 168
Emmerson 185 C McConnell 160
Watt 190 RG Grey 161
Herb 190 RT Baker 155
Daniels 175 RE Bohannon 159
Ovens 145 QB Hendrix 146
Greason (C) 148 LH Wells 164
Gibbs 165 RH Grey 156
Shackleston 170 FB Black 164
Karleskint 178 FB

Team weight 1,936 Team weight 1,755
Team average 176 Team average 159
End to end 185 5/7 End to end 167 1/7
Tackle to tackle 192 Tackle to tackle 164 1/5
Backfield 159 Backfield 154 3/4

Fresh Eleven Prepares for Opening of Season
Coach Mattox Drives Freshmen Through Strenuous Drills—High Pointis First Enemy

With the first game of the season only a little over a week away, Monk Mattox, Freshman mentor, is putting his Wildkitten charges through some heavy scrimmaging this week. The team is fast rounding into shape. High Point College will be the first opponent for the Freshmen, who open the season against them on October 9. Little is known of the caliber of the High Point team, but Coach Mattox is expecting a hard battle. He has been putting his squad through heavy scrimmage work all this week, but expects to lighten the work some next week.

A tentative varsity is being used in practice daily, which includes Monk and McClure at ends, Ritchie and Leftwick at tackles, Homgreen and Lefevre at guards, and Kerr at the pivot position. Vance, a tackle, is showing up well, although he is new to the game, and Vaughan is giving Kerr a race for center. Ends McConnell and Ghant are also threatening to take a place on the first team.

A spirited battle is being staged for backfield positions, although at present Flynn seems to have the choice at quarter over Enberg. Williams, another quarterback, is out with a bad shoulder. Kerr and James have been running at halfback, with Black and Smith alternating in the fullback position. King and Myers are also promising backs who stand a good chance for a varsity job.

GARRITY AND YOUNGER
(Continued from page 1)

defeat from the Wildcats since the days of Big Hammet in 1920, having won two and tied one game in the three clashes between the two schools. In 1921 Wake Forest won 10-7, the following year tying the Wildcats 6-6 when Heckman pulled the last-minute comeback stunt. The 1923 Baptist victory of 6-0 made it two wins for Wake Forest to nine for Davidson in the 12 years of football.

SIX FRATERNITIES
(Continued from page 1)

occupying houses of their own out in town. The former have rented Mrs. White’s home and are now in possession of a very attractive home. The latter have rented the old Laird place and after extensive remodeling work have made it into a thoroughly up-to-date and comfortable home. In each of these are sleeping accommodations. It is the plan of these two groups to build in the future and at that time to have quarters for their entire membership in their respective houses.

Capt. Elkins to Coach Pugilists This Season
Adequate Equipment Will Be Provided for Devotees of the Manly Art

Adequate equipment and competent coaches will be provided for boxing at Davidson this year, but in order to turn out a team that will bring credit to the college it will be necessary for a large number of candidates to come out regularly and work. Captain Elkins will coach the squad in the fundamentals of boxing until they are far enough advanced to appreciate the fine points of the sport, when a professional pugilist from Charlotte or elsewhere will be secured to add the finishing touches to their training.

Captain Elkins expects to begin work on the boxing squad early in November and get them in shape for the elimination bouts in January and February. The winner in each of the seven classes will be the college champion of his class and a member of the boxing team. For the benefit of those who are unlearned in the realm of boxing the seven classes are as follows:

Heavyweight, above 175 pounds.
Light heavyweight, 160-175 pounds.
Middleweight, 150-160 pounds.
Welterweight, 140-150 pounds.
Lightweight, 125-140 pounds.
Bantamweight, 115-125 pounds.
Flyweight, under 115 pounds.

Meets will be secured with those schools having teams and consequently the boxing team will take practically the same trips as the wrestling team. Interest was shown in boxing last year but of a very mild variety. If the students want a boxing team this year they have merely to come out and take advantage of the equipment and coaches provided for their use.

STEPPING HIGH

Tom Barr, while walking dazedly along Broadway this past summer saw some fine red apples in a fruit-vender’s window, and feeling hungry at the time, he decided to make a purchase of some of them. “Give me two of those,” he said to the clerk, handing him a five dollar bill. “How much are they?” The clerk thought he knew a hick when he saw one. “Two dollars apiece,” he said, quickly producing the dollar change. “Just keep the dollar, bo, and we'll be square,” said Tom. “I stepped on a grape when I came in.”

“Say, Pa, what is ‘Sic transit’?”
‘Sic transit?’ Why, an ambulance, of course.”

Columbia Theological Seminary 1828-1925

Columbia Theological Seminary is an approved Seminary for ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is the official Seminary for the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. The Faculty is composed of men who are chosen for pre-eminence:
1. In Christian Character
2. In Scholarship
3. In Approved Ability
4. As Moulders of Thought
5. As Leaders of Men

The student body is composed of picked men from the choicest Christian homes of the South. Their motives, ability, and character have been approved by their home church, Presbytery, and college. These young men come to the Seminary to receive special training for leadership in the most important sphere of human experience.

Columbia Seminary offers to its students thorough training, sympathetic fellowship, helpful cooperation, practical experience, and a true conception of the meaning of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

FELLOWS! We spare no pains in our efforts to serve the best. We take pleasure in soliciting banquets and those “college feeds.” See our managers for information and prices.

The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel
MANAGERS
H. L. SHAW
F. R. HUDSON
H. D. BURKE

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N. C.