THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1925

H. M. Johnston
Staple and Fancy Groceries
QUICK DELIVERY
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal

For the benefit of its numerous visitors, the Peanut Parcher wishes to lay down the following office rules:

1. Gentlemen upon entering will leave the door open or apologize.

2. Those who have no business will remain as long as possible. Take a chair and lean against the wall;
it will help to preserve it.

3. Gentlemen are requested to smoke, especially during office hours. Cigars supplied.

4. Spit on the floor, as the spittoons are only for ornament.

5. If we are busy, talk loudly or whistle. If it does not have the desired effect, sing.

6. If we are engaged in a business conversation, gentlemen are requested not to wait but to join in, as
we are fond of talking to half a dozen at one time.

7. Profane language is expected at all times, especially if ladies are present.

8. Put your feet on the table or sit on the desk. It will be of great assistance to those
who are writing.

9. Persons having no business in this office will call often or give satisfactory excuse.

10. Should you need money, do not hesitate to ask for it, as we do not require it for business
purposes but merely for the sake of loaning.

11. Gentlemen will turn over the ink and scatter important papers over the room before they leave the office.

12. Gentlemen with jokes on Cuba McCallum and Stud Trawick will kindly stay away, as we never horse either of
the two gentlemen.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria.

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

"Can you drive with one hand?"
Guthery (with great eagerness) "Sure!"
She—"Then pick up my glove."

Christenbury—"It took me two years to learn to play football."
Fresh—"And what did you get for your pains?"
Christenbury—"Sloan’s Liniment."

Baker—"I once loved a girl that made a fool out of me."
Briggs—"What a lasting impression some girls make!"

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
"Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap"
We furnish homes complete.

Queens—"So you've been out riding with Frank Hudson, I suppose you passed everything on the road."
Converse—"You bet, including eight ice cream parlors and sixty soda founts."

Teacher—"Can you spell ‘avoid,’ Ikey?"
Ikey—"Sure, teacher. Vot is der void?"

He—"Your teeth remind me of velvet."
She—"Why?"
He—"Aged in wood."

McAlpine calls the brake on his Ford “Kimona,” because it’s something to be put on in an emergency.

The R.O.T.C. boys say they don't mind the setting up exercises. It's the getting up exercises that annoy them.

Preacher (to 10-year-old girl) "And where do bad little girls go?"
Little girl—“Down to the depot to talk to the traveling men.”

"Did you ever see a catfish?"
"Yes."
"Did he catch anything?"

By the shores of Cuticura,
By the sparkling Pluto Water,
Lived the Prophylactic Chiclet
Danderine, fair Buick’s daughter,
She was loved by Instant Postum,
Son of Camel and Victrola,
Heir-apparent to the Mazda
Of the tribe of Coca-Cola,
Thru the darkness strolled the lovers,
Thru the Shredded Wheat they wandered,
Lovely little Wrigley Chiclet,
Washed by Fairy, fed by Postum,
No Pyrene can quench the fire,
Nor any Aspirin still the heartache
Of my Prest-o-Lite desire;
Let us marry little Djer-Kiss.

Famous Walls

The Saffron Emu
The emu and the ebon roe
Cavort upon the greens
Do re mi fa so la ti do
A four-letter tower that leans.
The luna queen, the aard-vark
And mellifluous gnus,
Bestride the hectic upas tree
Kheul Egad! What booze!
Ave! trite zany, dolt, or churl,
Ablute your sark at spa.
Fetch twenty ems along for tiffin
To please his highness, Ra.

And lest we forget—in case you want to work a puzzle, remember that Iskabibble is the Russian for Attaboy!

"What yo’ got in that little black bag?"
"Them's my instruments. I'm a veterinary."
"Quit yo’ kiddin’, man. Yo' ain't never been in no war!"

"Did you put out the cat?"
"Yes."
"I don't believe it."
"Well, if you think I'm a liar, put him out yourself."

She Lived in the Country
Diamond Dick McCarthy will now render us his most immaculate little ditty, entitled, “I call mySweetie Velvet, because she’s aged
in the wood.”

“What’s the matter, little boy? Why are you crying?”

“Mama’s gone and drowned all the little kittens.”

“Dear me! That’s too bad.”

“Yep, she—boo-hoo—promised me I could do it.”

Glee Club Scores Hit

SOPHS HAVE SET DATE OF BANQUET IN CHARLOTTE

In Queens’ Auditorium Reception Follows Stellar Performance by Reorganized Gleemen Saturday

The Sophomores are getting all pepped up. The date for their big banquet has been set for March 19th, and
President Covington announces that the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce has been secured for the festive occasion.

The Davidson Glee Club, appearing in concert at Charlotte the night of the 21st, scored a decided hit. The performance
was followed by a reception in honor of the songsters at Queens College.

Toastmaster Branch, with the aid of Ronald Wilson, is working hard to get up a snappy program, and other details
are being handled in a competent manner. The Sophomore class has promised not to celebrate boisterously after leaving the scene
of the banquet, and the majority of the Sophomores have promised not to play in rooms while they are away.

The Wildcats Gleemen were brought on under the auspices of the Senior class. The club, under the direction of President
Pigey Martin, had been reorganized after sickness had prevented a number from making the trip, and in spite of this
loss, a full program was given. The quartet numbers perhaps were given the heartiest reception. However, the Earnest Brothers in
a novelty act brought down the house. The glees and choruses rendered by the full glee club were enthusiastically received
and won numerous encores.

Several other trips are to be made in the near future. On the 28th, a concert will be given at
Huntersville. Arrangements have been made to go to Lexington on March 11th and to Mitchell College at Statesville on the
14th. These two may be incorporated in a tour to include High Point, Winston-Salem, and Salisbury on the 12th and
13th, Greensboro.

Red McComb's Latest

I will now exonerate you with this charming little smile-maker, entitled: “Because of the high price of eggs, I call
my hen, McDuff, and whenever I see her, say, ‘Lay on, McDuff.’”

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

He sure was a vicious kid,
And he had done wrong,
The only things he ever did
Were chase wild women, wine, and song.

He wouldn’t take a girl to ride
In his car or even talk
Of doing it—because he said
That all of them could walk.

He took very few of them out in his boat,
And those few sure do hate him,
He said that boating was no fun,
Most all the girls can swim.

But he had a little aeroplane
That went into the sky,
He carried all the girls up there
Because they cannot fly.

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

I say he did because he did,
Because he does no more,
He can’t say because today
He’s on that Golden Shore.

His body rests and so does hers
In a peaceful shady bower
Because by heck he tried to neck,
At ninety miles an hour.

A case of real optimism was found in the recent South Georgia flood when a man trying to view the
damage that had been done rowed into a negro settlement that had not been completely washed away. Hearing strains of
music as they rent the air, he rowed furiously until he reached a negro cabin that had signs of five-foot
water above the sills. Rowing up to the door, he peeped in to ascertain the source of the music. There,
sitting in a rocker, calmly rocking her pickaninny, water up to her knees, rocked a black negro mammy singing to
the accompaniment of the little tin music box on a water-soaked table, the once popular and appropriate air, “It Ain’t
Gonna Rain No Mo’.”

“You never can tell,” said the bandit as he shot the only witness to the crime.

VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
EVERYTHING NEW AND UP-TO-DATE
Theatre perfectly ventilated, scientifically heated
Comfortable seats
Good music and only high-class pictures shown here
Showing daily from 1 to 11 P. M.
No intermission
We appreciate your patronage
VICTORY THEATRE
CHAS. A. PEELER, Mgr.
