THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

Recent Publication of Magazine Brings Thorough Review and Frank Criticism

‘DIM MORNING—GOOD-NIGHT!

After carefully reading and re-reading this eye-opener in the current issue of that staid old periodical, The Davidson College Magazine, the writer wonders what Dim Morning is all about, anyhow. True, it is a short story, supposedly, of the conventional length and appearance. But away from the antiquated fudge-making tales and rah-rah stories of college life that have so devitalized our publication in the past. The story is different, but as for having any literary merits or moral status, it fails miserably. It is written in a slipshod manner evidently aping the style of one or two modern writers of fiction. There are several lines in the story such as “delicious love silence,” “inviting forests, speckled with moonlight,” that lift the thought at times out of the mess of words and vain hintings in which the theme of the plot flounders. Outside of the literary value, of which there is scarcely any, the story is weak in description, in moral tone, and leaves the reader suspended in air, groping blindly for a way to turn. Speaking of easiness in reading, what do we get out of such a sentence as this, “On further sat his sister unobtrusively”?

When Thanksgiving comes, the opening poem is soothing and vaguely musical. It contains the true Thanksgiving “atmosphere,” to be sure. Nature’s Identity, is a little too broad in conception, but one reads it with pleasantness. Trefax is an excellent double-barreled story and is interesting for its technique as well as for the vivid description and the ethical questions involved. The poem by the same author is also good. Theory and Practice shows the effects of editor’s shears on a well-padded manuscript. Comfortable and pleasant reading, though. The Third Call, a well-worked-out short story is reminiscent of a little play by Zona Gale, called “Neighbors.” The characters are true to life. The essays are better than usual, especially, A Big Difference. It arouses a question that burns deeply within everyone’s mind. Submerged Personalities would have gone over better, had it been written over two or three times before publication. The two stories, Faith, and Now Laugh, are of the more or less conventional type. The reader knows that the mortgage will in subject matter, it has broken.

ALUMNI NOTES

Fresh-Soph Debate Takes Place Soon

The annual Fresh-Soph Debate will be held in Shearer Hall in the near future, possibly next week. This debate usually is hotly contested and is considered a good try-out for all prospective intercollegiate debaters. The finals will take place between the two teams that emerge victors from the semi-finals that will take place some time this week. The Pandeinics will meet the Metrophilians while a team representing the Eumenean Society will go against the Philanthropics. The winners of these two encounters will meet for the finals. The three men representing the Metrophilian Society are R. C. Grady, H. Powell and Boyce Martin. Those from the Pandeinics are W. M. Regen, K. Pritchett and J. Graham. The Philanthropic men are F. A. Phillips, L. K. Pritchett and R. B. Walters. The Eumenean team has not been picked at the present time but will be chosen very soon. The question that will be debated is, Resolved, “That the Allied War Debts Should be Cancelled.” In the semi-finals the Phis and the Pans will have the affirmative side of the question while the Mets and the Eus will argue the negative side.

FASSIFERN LEADER (Continued from page 1)

youth for the greater tasks which they faced later. Dr. Sevier spoke of Woodrow Wilson, whom he knew personally, how, in his youth, he would, with the neighboring boys, sail toy fleets in the ditches along the streets of Augusta. This was God’s way of preparing Woodrow Wilson to sail the fleets of our great nation safely through the war. We may say, in answer to God's question, that we have nothing other than that which is common in our hand. As Dr. Sevier said, it is not how much we have, but how much we consecrate what we have to God's use. In closing, Dr. Sevier said: “We have an influence which we may use for good or ill. Nothing will burn or sear the soul more than wealth unconsecrated, and nothing will delight the soul more than our influence used for good.”

There were quite a number of Alumni present at the Duke game last week, among these were: C. M. S. (Chong) McIlwaine, '25, who after an illness of over a month. Capt. Henry Alexander Chambers, a member of the class of 1864 died last week at his home in Chattanooga, Tenn., Until was editor of The Davidsonian last year and who is now teaching at the McCallie School in Chattanooga, was on the Hill over the weekend. Alvin Rowe, '25, a Phi Beta Kappa man of last year, who is now teaching in Greensboro, was here for the game. Ed. O'Connor, ex-’26, was on the Hill over the weekend. Ed. Singletary, '25, Spratt Moore, ex-‘23, M. W. Trawick, ’25, J. B. Gallant, ’25, Watt McCain, ’24, A. M. Moffet, ’25, were all guests on the Hill during the weekend. R. E. (Sook) Boggs, ’25, captain of the ‘24 Basketball team and star football player, who is now assistant coach at the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn., was to be seen in his old haunts during the past week.

‘00—Rev. J. C. Grier has recently changed his pastorate from Rutherfordton, N. C., to Mt. Airy, N.C.
‘10—Rev. Roy Smith has given up mission work at The Hollows, and has taken up other work at Franklin, W. Va.
‘11—Rev. D. H. Dimmock has recently changed from Norfolk, Va., to Oxford, N.C.
'07—Rev. E. L. Flanagan of Wilson, N. C., has been called to the West End Church in Atlanta, Ga.
‘09—Dr. R. S. McGeachy is practicing medicine at Kinston, N. C.
‘06—Rev. G. M. Matthis, of Clinton, N. C., has recently been called to Kinston, N. C.
'13—Rev. J. R. Phipps has recently removed from Glenwood, N. C., to Pollocksville, N. C.
'25—J. R. Gudger is teaching and coaching in the Bedford High School at Bedford, Va.
'23—R. M. McGirt is teaching at Wilson, N.C.
‘00—W. E. Hill, now of Fayetteville, N. C., has been called to the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va.
'14—R. T. Crawford was a visitor of the hill Monday. Announcement has been made of the approaching marriage of Morris Johnson, ex-’19, to Miss Emma Troy King, which will take place on the 15th of December at Fayetteville, N. C.

Mr. Lindsay the end of the war he was made a captain. While a student at Davidson he was actively engaged in student activities. Among other things he was president of the Eumenean Literary Society during his Senior year.

ANOTHER GOOD FOOTBALL YEAR (Continued from page 1) Scrubs defeated Guilford 26 to 0 while the varsity rested on the sidelines. Then followed the game with P.C., at Rock Hill. The teams played evenly the first half, but in the third quarter, the Wildcats ran two touchdowns over their South Carolina brothers and defeated them 13 to 0. In the contest with Furman, the Davidson team was outplayed for the only time of the whole season, and Furman was returned the victor by a 6 to 0 score. On Home-Coming Day, the Wildcats continued on their climb to state championship honors by turning the Wolfpack eleven back by a 9-0 score. Before a host of alumni, the Davidson team clearly outplayed their opponents in every point of the game. After Wake Forest was beaten by State, the title with Carolina became the struggle for the state championship. Although the Wildcats led in first downs and gained over twice as much ground as the Tar Heels, they were defeated 13 to 0. Then came the final game with Duke, which the Wildcats won by a larger score than any other game ever played with the Blue Devils. Thus ended a most successful season, with two defeats, two ties, and six victories. After the games, three men were selected for All-State honors, with practically every man on the varsity selected by some writer for a place on their first or second team, and eight being placed on some first All-State team.

Following is the record for the year:
Davidson ........................ 34 Wofford .......................... 0
Davidson ........................ 7 P.C. ................................. 13
Davidson ........................ 7 Wake Forest .................. 7
Davidson ........................ 26 Guilford .......................... 0
Davidson ........................ 13 P.C. ................................. 0
Davidson ........................ 0 Furman .......................... 6
Davidson ........................ 9 N.C. State ....................... 0
Davidson ........................ 6 Hampden-Sidney .......... 6
Davidson ........................ 0 Carolina .......................... 13
Davidson ........................ 26 Duke ................................. 0

FIVE COLLEGES SEND MEN
(Continued from page 1)

The convention closed with the election of national officers for the ensuing term of two years and the selection of a meeting place for the next convention. The new officers are J. M. Appleby, Davidson, Worthy Grand Alchemist; H. D. Jones, Auburn, Grand Recorder; H. B. Arbuckle, Davidson, Grand Chancellor; Z. M. Pirenian, University of Florida, Grand Visor; and O. J. Thies, Davidson, Grand Keeper of the Cult. The place for the next convention, as selected by a vote of the convention, is the University of Alabama, but this is subject to change.

The new “Coat of Arms” of the fraternity was presented to the convention for the first time Friday evening. It was designed and presented by Dr. L. P. Goode, retiring Grand Alchemist. Features of the convention were a model initiation, put on by members of the local chapter, and an informal reception given by Mrs. Arbuckle and Mrs. Thies following the Friday evening session.

Gamma Sigma Epsilon is the only honor chemical fraternity for undergraduates in America. It was organized at Davidson in 1920, since which time it has experienced steady growth. The membership of the local chapter includes four faculty members: Dr. W. J. Martin, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Prof. O. J. Thies, and Prof. J. H. Davis, and ten student members: J. P. Hendrix, J. M. Appleby, T. H. Smith, J. W. Norwood, J. J. Earnhardt, I. N. Roseberry, H. C. Lawson, S. W. Moore, J. B. Thompson, and C. L. Bragaw.

There are a lot of men who would like to be sixty-two years paying their debts. — Omaha World-Herald.

Anything which parents have not learned from experience, they can now learn from their children.

It now seems to be the fashion to kill somebody and then go crazy. — Florida Times-Union.

The poetry is bright and bizarre; something is sorely needed on this campus. The three poems by a freshman writer are colorful and gay. The last, especially, is cleverly done. As for the rest, editorials, humor, fillers, and what-not—it is all as good as the average. And as a whole, the Magazine is the best that the writer has read since his arrival on the campus. Here’s watching you, Adrion! (C., 19).

SENIORS TO PLACE STONE
(Continued from page 1)

One of the leading firms of this nature in Philadelphia has contracted to make the gift of the men who are graduating in June. A committee was appointed by Roland Parker, class president, early in the fall, which, after consultation with students of several colleges of the South, including the University of North Carolina, University of Alabama, Vanderbilt, Winthrop, and Sophie Newcomb, presented to the class three suggestions. The gifts placed before the men were a “Y” hut, a costly and valuable set of books for the Library, and the final selection. After much discussion, it was decided to give the college, and in this instance the students as a whole, these benches. The gift committee, which corresponded with 26 different Southern schools, was composed of J. M. Appleby, chairman; J. M. Garrison, R. W. Graves, E. A. O'Neal, T. S. Baker, C. E. Houston, B. U. Ratchford, H. L. Shaw, and O. L. Brenner. These benches, eight in number, will be in place by the festivities of Junior Speaking. Although the faculty did not have any voice in the selection of the present, it is understood that they are highly pleased with the decision of the Senior class.

We can’t all be jokes, but we can at least hand one in to the editor of the “Goober Scorcher” every now and then.

When the orchestra stops its surge of music—and the applauding couples begin to leave the floor—when you join the good fellows for jolly talk and friendship—have a Camel!

When the orchestra gives you encore after encore, but finally stops. And the couples glowing with happiness reluctantly leave the floor. When you join the men for jovial talk until the next dance begins—have a Camel! For no friend so enhances the joys of life as Camel. Camel makes every happy occasion happier, adds its own charm to every festive day, every blithesome evening. Camels are made from the very choicest tobaccos grown in all the world. They never tire your taste, no matter how freely you smoke them. They're so skillfully blended they never leave a cigaretty after-taste. Rolled into Camels is every good feature you have ever wished for in a cigarette. So, when you're waiting happily and confidently for your time to rejoin the dance—taste the smoke that’s known and loved by the world’s experienced smokers. No doubt about it, you'll never know how good a cigarette can be until you—Have a Camel!

No other cigarette made is like Camels. They are the best grown in all the world. Camels are blended by the world’s most expert blenders. Nothing is too good for Camels. In the making of this one brand we concentrate the tobacco knowledge and skill of the largest organization of tobacco experts in the world. No other cigarette packs such goodness. Our highest wish, if you do not yet know Camel quality, is that you try them. We invite you to compare Camels with any cigarette made at any price. B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.