6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925

Dramatic Club to Stage Plays at Commencement

Three One-Act Plays Scheduled for Presentation During Commencement

On Monday night of Commencement week, the Dramatic Club will present three original one-act plays by Davidson students. These plays,
by three members of the class of '26, have been gone over carefully by Professor Erwin and considered by him
excellent enough to be presented by the Dramatic Club at Commencement. The play, “On With the Show,” by Fred Smith,
was given at a private rehearsal before the Dramatic Club and an audience of about 100 persons and received much
favorable comment by all present. “The Twain Meet,” by Hayden Hollingsworth, and “Molly Too,” by Paul Freeland, have not had
a showing, but at the rehearsals, the judges commended the actors upon their ability to so well portray the characters.

The plays, with their characters, are as follows:

MOLLY TOO
By Paul Freeland
Molly ........................................ Letitia Currie
Ralph ........................................ Mary Thompson
Hamp ........................................ Ben Ratchford
Selma ........................................ Johnsie Shelton
Lem Dancy .......................... Paul Freeland
Tom Allen .......................... L. D. G. Wilson
Scene—A mountain home.

ON WITH THE SHOW
By Fred Smith
Smiley, a clown .................. Clanton Williams
Toto, a clown ...................... Simril Bryant
Ed Whitlow ......................... Chester Monk
Ringmaster .......................... Philip Cox
Louise, a bare-back rider ... Mrs. F. G. Hengeveld
Callie ...................................... Mattie Maclemore
Scene—Dressing room of Whitlow's Great National Circus.

THE TWAIN MEET
By Hayden Hollingsworth
Mr. Gregory ......................... Benton Wharton
Mr. Armstrong ................... Arthur Martin
Martha Gregory ................. Nina Holt White
Scene—The living room in Mr. Gregory's home.

Compilation of statistics by the Biology Club of 400 questionnaires filled out by students of Davidson College show that in
the minds of the students here “moral character” is the leading requisite for a prospective wife. The students also indicated
that the “ideal family” consisted of three children, the average family consisting of 2.5 boys and 1.8 girls.

The Biology Club recently delivered questionnaires to the Davidson students, similar to those given out at the University of Mississippi
and other schools. The questionnaires were designed to determine the percentage of students who prefer to marry, the average size
of the family desired, the objections to marriage, and the average kind of wife desired by the students.

Nineteen of the 400 students stated that their views concerning the desirability of matrimony have changed since entering Davidson College.
The degree of change varied from only a slight change to a definite one in favor of matrimony. Only one
student signified that he had decided not to marry since entering Davidson.

The questionnaires were filled out by members of all classes at Davidson, 170 Freshmen handing them in, while 90 came
from the Sophomore class, 75 from the Junior, and 65 from the Senior class. The average age of these men
was 19.2 years.

Banquet Held for Sophs on Tuesday

The class of '27 met at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel on last Tuesday night for an hour or two of
feasting and entertainment as well as for other matters. Bill Covington, the retiring president of the class, carried out a
short and peppy program before Jim Pinckney was inaugurated as the new president. The Kiser Brothers, the pride of the
Sophomore class, gave two or three entertaining selections, only to be called back for as many more. “Warhoss” Hudgins, with
his harmonica quartet and silver-toned Hawaiian harp, rendered his famous ditty, “Bloody War.” Don Wharton, who was athletic editor of
The Davidsonian this past year, then enumerated the many accomplishments of the class of ’27, making special mention of those
earning places on the various varsity athletic teams.

The class also had several matters of business to discuss, foremost of which was the plans for the day when
the Freshmen would be allowed to take off their caps. Christian, who is chairman of the committee for the plans
for Soph Day, assured the class that the Freshmen would be properly and ably handled on that day. Covington gave
a review of what the class had been doing and for what it had stood before turning over the meeting
to Pinckney, the new president. Pinckney then spoke to the class.

Students go to Concord for Final ‘Y’ Deputation

Branch, Barr, Williams, and Moore to Speak at Concord High School

The last deputation of the year will be the one which goes to the Concord High School Saturday and Sunday
of this week. Concord has been wanting a group of Davidson men to talk before her high school and Hi
Y Club for some time and it was at the request of Wallace Moore, a former Davidson man who is
now teaching in the high school there, that it was decided to send the deputation at this time.

The boys who will bring the talks to both high school and Hi Y club are Harllee Branch, Tom Barr,
Jim Moore, and Clancy Williams. These men are all veteran speakers and each has been on like deputations at some
former time. The Davidson Y. M. C. A. has been peculiarly interested in the high schools and Hi Y clubs
in the surrounding country this year and has done some very fine work in helping these organizations. It has been
the policy of the “Y” to send men on these deputations who represent the various phases of college life here
at Davidson; for instance, one athlete, one interested in debate, another in journalistic work, and others who are well acquainted
with the curriculum.

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

(Continued from page 1)

Following “moral character” which led the list of desirable qualities for a wife, the students also indicated that the “ideal
family” consisted of three children, the average family consisting of 2.5 boys and 1.8 girls.

The Board of Trustees will meet at 9:30. Once every four years, to enable every class to hear her once.

STRIKING MESSAGE BROUGHT

What a wonderful confidence is a mother’s love. She expects each of you to lead the true Christ-like life. It
is the holding power of a mother’s love that guides you in all your hours of temptation. “Write regularly to
your mothers, your letters...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

---

are her treasures. Even now she is waiting for that Mother's Day message. Tell her that you love her, she
knows it, but tell her again. Tell her that you are striving to build up your character into whatever she
wants you to be. You once depended on her, now she depends on you. Don’t disappoint her. Be as faithful
to her as she has been to you. “This Mother's Day is a wonderful expression of filial love. There are
some sons here to whom mother is only a rich and sacred memory. Your mother believes that Davidson College is
a safe college for her son because it is a Christian college. Do your part to make it a safe
place for every mother’s son. ‘Honor thy father and thy mother that the days may be long in the land
that the Lord thy God giveth thee.’”

The “Y” was extremely fortunate in obtaining such a speaker as Mrs. Robson on such an occasion, since no one
knows the boys as she does. Mrs. Robson only speaks

Variety is the Keynote in MEN’S CRAVATS FOR SPRING

Every wanted silk is here, patterned with taste and individuality in the manner favored by well-dressed men. The colorings are
of exceptional beauty—colors that add that final touch which is so essential to the correctly dressed man.

The vespers were opened by a song service led by S. F. Bryant. This was followed by prayers by Jim
Appleby and W. L. Lyerly. C. F. Monk read the 13th chapter of I Corinthians for the scripture lesson, substituting
the word “mother” for every place the word “charity” occurred which made the reading very beautiful and impressive. D. G.
Wilson sang a solo, “Mother o’ Mine,” after which Mr. J. P. Williams introduced the speaker.

DRAMATIC CLUB WILL (Continued from page 1)

by all bonafide members. It is believed that this will promote the best interest of the club, and will make
for a keener rivalry among those new men who desire to display their histrionic ability. Smith stated that he would
endeavor to make the Davidson Dramatic Club an organization of more importance than it has been. He said that he
thought that this college has just as good material as the University of North Carolina, whose organization, the Carolina Playmakers,
have won nation-wide fame for their excellent portrayal of family life in the Carolinas. Plans are being made to have
the Dramatic Club take a tour of the state, with a program of original plays, such as were presented this
year. The Playmakers have met with a signal success on the many trips that they have taken. Smith has written
three of the five plays that have been presented this year, including a farce given at the Junior Speaking entertainment.
He has taken a lively interest both in the writing and acting of the plays that have been put on
before Davidson audiences. Deck has appeared in several plays, his characterization of comedy and old men part being especially good.

One of the major events of Commencement will be the annual literary address by Dr. J. R. McCain, president of
Agnes Scott College, at 12:15. Dr. McCain is a graduate of Erskine College and has received post-graduate degrees from Mercer
University, the University of Chicago, and Columbia University. He is the founder of the Darlington School, at Rome, Ga., and
has been associated with Agnes Scott College since 1915 in the capacity of registrar, professor of Economics, vice-president, and president.
The annual alumni luncheon will be held at 1:30 o'clock, and will be followed by a meeting of the Alumni
Association. A reception by the Faculty will be held at 5:00 p.m. Then at 8:00 o'clock will come the exercises
of the literary societies, at which time the society diplomas, trophies, and medals will be awarded. As a part of
this exercise, the finals of the Senior Oratorical Contest will be held, the speakers being D. B. Wharton, F. A.
Hopkins, A. C. Ray, and H. B. Price. At 10:30 the presentation of the Senior Class Feature will take place,
which will close the exercises for Tuesday. All details of this feature will be kept secret until it is presented,
but something interesting is doubtless in store. Piggy Martin is chairman of the committee in charge of this part of
the program.

The climax and final event of the week will be the graduation exercises at 10:30 Wednesday morning, when 82 Seniors
will receive their long-coveted diplomas, and the college medals will be awarded. The regular valedictorian and salutatorian have not been
announced yet, but there is little doubt as to who the valedictorian will be. The lowering of the class flag
as the graduates sing “College Ties” will bring to a dramatic close the 89th Commencement of Davidson College, and at
the same time Davidson will send out a splendid bunch of men fully capable of upholding her established reputation as
a producer of great men.

The following is the composite rating of the 400 questionnaires, the qualities indicated being the 19 that were placed on
the blank forms to be numbered in the order of preference by the individual student:

1. Moral character.
2. Disposition.
3. Health.
4. Interest in religion.
5. Natural and mental ability.
6. Education.
7. Willingness to rear a family.
8. Family connections.
9. Beauty.
10. Housekeeping ability.
11. Ambition.
12. Social ability.
13. Fondness of sports.
14. Wealth.
15. Mutual intellectual interests.
16. Business ability.
17. Native state or section of the country.
18. Artistic or social ability.
19. Attitude on woman suffrage.

Surprising to many was the announcement that “family connections” was rated higher than “beauty,” these two coming eighth and ninth
on the list. Following closely behind these was “housekeeping ability.” The comparative low place that “social ability” was given seemed
to indicate that the social butterfly or flapper is not particularly desirable for a leading characteristic of a prospective wife.
One of the biggest surprises revealed was that “wealth” was placed fifteenth in the list, showing that theoretically a man
loves a girl and not her money. However, the husbands must consider themselves quite expert financiers, the “business ability” of
the wives being placed even nearer the bottom of the list.

CALENDAR

THURSDAY
7:15—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:15—Philanthropic Literary Society.

SATURDAY
“CAP DAY.” Senior Examinations begin.
7:30—Movies in Gym.

SUNDAY
10:15—Volunteer Band.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:15—"Y" Vesper Service.

TUESDAY
7:15—Pandemic Literary Society.
7:15—Metrophilian Literary Society.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

---
