4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH -------------------- Editor
HAROLD D. BURKE ------------------------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. C. RANKIN ------------------------------- Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON ------------------------------- Assistant Managing Editor
P. P. JONES ------------------------------------ Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON ---------------------------------- Associate Editor
R. B. PARKER ---------------------------------- Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE ----------------------------------- Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH ------------------------ Associate Editor
BYERS DICKSON ------------------------------- Alumni Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE ----------------------------------- Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH ---------------------------------- Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER ----------------------------- Circulation Manager
J. M. GARRISON ------------------------------- Subscription Manager
C. W. WILSON --------------------------------- Solicitor
V. S. BRYANT --------------------------------- Solicitor
E. L. DOUGLAS -------------------------------- Assistant
JULIAN LAKE ---------------------------------- Service Department

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. BROWN
M. APPLEBY
J. D. BROWN
M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
E. P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. BLACK
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

A few more days of studies—then Ho for Summer!

There’s some excuse for being blue, but none for being green.

Speaking of equine quadrupeds, an intellectual Fresh asked us the other day where that school Pending was, which the team
plays the last of the month.

Poor old Wildcat. He never gets to exhibit his new Easter clothing. Like a bad boy, he’s all shut up
in a cage, with no admirers around to gape at him.

It is said that the modern girl does not want a chaperone. She wants a chap alone.

One of our promising young sonneteers was accused the other day of imitating Poe in all the poems that he
wrote. He merely replied that he was taking “Poe-tic” license.

The editor has adopted a policy in regard to handling the editorials of this page, which is different in some
respects from those used by his predecessors. That is, to have different members of the editorial staff contribute editorials from
time to time, upon any topic that they might feel to be of interest to the student body.

Those students of womankind who are in a position to know give as their advice that it is best to
stay away from brunettes—they are too much like the blondes.

By the time this paper comes off the press, we hope that Coaches Monk and Tex will have decided to
retain their old room in the gym for another year of Wildcat sports. They have wrought well during their pleasant
sojourn of two years, and the results of their training are to be seen in the teams that have been
put out during the last year. Although the baseball team has not made an enviable record this spring, we are
proud of the records that other teams have made.

How many students know that Dr. Archie Currie was the first man ever to serve as president of the student
body? This was way back in 1897, when the college was not nearly so large as it is today, but
even then was renowned for the quality of men it put out. The leader of campus activities has always been
a responsible position. The training that Dr. Currie received back in his student days certainly stood him in good stead,
for he is recognized as a leader of men today.

PITY THE PRINCE

Even the job of being a prince has its drawbacks at times. Edward Albert Windsor, Prince of Wales, and heir-apparent
to the British throne finds that acting as understudy to his royal father grows rather irksome, and like the poor
little rich boy, he longs for a tiny bit of real freedom. Poor fellow, we imagine that he has a
hard time of it; nothing to ride on when he goes for an ocean voyage except a big battleship, with
a company of marines for playmates and companions. Thousands of loyal subjects to salaam in lowly subservience when he draws
nigh, and pretty maidens by the score waiting in line to get a chance to dance with him. Think of
it! What fun to snap one’s fingers at precedence and custom, and act as supreme potentate and most honored arbiter
of men’s sartorial apparel.

When the Prince changes neckties, even by accident, the news is immediately cabled to all the world, and the youths
of all ages adorn their Adam’s apples with multi-hued cravats and bow ties. Literally thousands of otherwise serious thinking young
men, wait with bated breath for the next release concerning the Prince’s choice of suits, whether he wears his trousers
flopping style, with or without cuffs, high or low water. Verily, he is a pace maker among those Beau Brummels
to whom the shade of their knicker-hockers is more important than the texture of the sheep-skin that will decorate their
hands at commencement.

Even now, Eddie is on a pleasure jaunt around the world. He is on a tour of inspection, so to
speak, of the vast estates, that in the course of human events, he expects to inherit by the law of
primogeniture. They built a special lake for water sports when he stopped for a day’s stay in some little port
in Nigeria. Ten thousand natives and all the white residents turned out to pay their respects. Press reports say that
he tripped the light fantastic with every fair partner that asked for a dance.

But with all this show of patriotic devotion and national spirit, the Prince is worried over a matter that more
than once has caused dire foreboding in the hearts of men. His subjects say that he must marry, and even
now, the official matchmakers are busy angling with the best political bait for a suitable princess to grace the royal
and ancient throne of England. Does Eddie the Prince have a say-so about all this affair? No, of course not.
He can dictate men’s fashions and order a battleship around through the seven seas, but he gets no chance to
choose the sweetheart of his younger years nor the wife and faithful companion of his afteryears. Even the poorest and
most lowly of us can have this privilege, which is a natural right of man, and has been held sacred
since time was young. The Prince cannot fall in love with the garagetman’s daughter, and elope with her if it
suits his fancy. Nor does he sit on moonlit nights and whisper sweet nothings to the maiden of his choice,
for it simply wouldn’t do. He is a Prince; the cynosure of wondering and admiring eyes. Maybe they will select
a wife for him who will prove faithful, trustworthy, and loyal, and have all the attributes of womankind that poets
have raved about, and which have caused wars and rumors of wars. Maybe the one they choose will suit him
perfectly; maybe she will honor, love and obey him all the days of his life, but, would we change places
with him? Not on your life. We can all be princes in fancy, even if not in fact. We live
in a free and democratic country, even if they do pass an anti-evolution bill in Sunny Tennessee. We prefer our
own station; let princing and its attendant dangers alone. Perhaps after marrying some sweet innocent damsel, who thinks that Prince
is the name of a dog, she will “crown” us, and then we'll be a real king of the household.
Meanwhile, let the Britishers have their little joke (they can’t see the point anyhow), and let’s all join in with
them in singing the new British national anthem, “The Son Never Sits On An English Horse.”

The address on the Waterways and Ship Transportation Bill by Governor Morrison in Shearer hall Monday morning was a most
convincing one. Mr. Morrison has studied the subject thoroughly, and even to the most dubious, his argument for a reduction
in freight rates by a system of port terminals and shipping lines, was clear and convincing. As he said, this
subject of freight rates is a very vital one, and is a problem that will loom more and more upon
the economic and industrial horizon of this state. Upon the settlement of this question hinge the growth of many industries
that will be of untold value in the upbuilding and progress of North Carolina.

Open Forum Chaff
(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of)those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire
to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the all UG. year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that it will be for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves
freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if
such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by
7:00 p.m. Monday.

WARREN COX

Just one year ago there departed from the portals of Old Davidson a son to pass the golden period of
his life acting his part upon a noble stage, but a stage exposed to lasting toils and endless cares, resigning
many pleasures and personal ambitions to enjoy others infinitely greater: those resultant from the giving of his life and talents
for the propagation of true Christian education to the youth of a vast and great land, but a land of
little opportunity needing only some incentive to awaken its dormant potentialities. Davidson is duly proud of Warren Cox, who at
the end of his career at Davidson, expressed his willingness to pass on to the sons of Hangchow College, China,
the ideals and traditions which had been so powerfully and successfully instilled into him while at Davidson. Davidson men remember
Warren as a man who from the outset was hard at work in an effort, not only to the accomplishment
of his own purpose, but at all times striving to make Davidson a better place in which to live. Few
phases of college life and activities escaped Warren, and in everything attempted by him he showed his ability to excel.
Whether in literary, scientific or athletic activities, or in the line of business enterprise you found him on top and
making a success. Warren is a man in the truest sense of the word; generous, faithful and honest at the
same time displaying a rich sense of humor, gallantry and good breeding. Just as Warren worked unstintingly for Davidson, and
at all times was striving to uphold and further her ideals. Just so will he work and endeavor to the
utmost toward making Hangchow the true “Davidson of China.” This should be a challenge to every true Davidsonian to stand
behind the advancement of such convictions as pervade the purpose of Warren Cox. What better way could Davidson build herself
a greater monument, or send out her influence where it is so greatly needed to say nothing of the great
good it will do along with the realization of the ambitions of one of her sons in whom she takes
the greatest of pride?

—DAVIDSONIAN.

Minor Chords

(The new management of The Davidsonian presents this innovation in newspaper features. The larger metropolitan dailies regularly run columns devoted
to the efforts of contemporary poets to whom recognition should be given in some way. The Davidsonian hopes in this
way to give an opportunity to the poets on the campus for publication of work that could not be otherwise
presented to the public. It is in no wise meant to take the place of such departments in the Davidson
College Magazine, but to supplement that publication which is somewhat handicapped in appearing only once a year. Contributions are solicited
from every person and source at Davidson, and it is earnestly hoped that someone will each week hand in a
poem to the editor. This column is for the amateur and no one should be hesitant about trying. Come ahead!)

NIGHT

And in the night soft breezes blow
Across dark fields where poppies grow.
And in the night the star-dust trails
The dew that morn finds in the vales,
And in the night a Star shone dim,
And kings knelt down to worship Him.
And in the night two lovers walk,
And God is hushed while lovers talk.
And in the night dreams come to men
To rear success where wreck has been.
And in the night a world may form,
An empire built, a babe be born;
And in the night men die.

—E. P. O'Connor.

“Warden,” said the prisoner, “there’s just one request that I'd like to ask of you.”
“What’s that,” said the warden as he prepared to inject his prisoner into a nice cell, where the aforesaid man
could sing his Prisoners’ Song for the next twenty years.
“It’s just this,” said the man with the stripes, “I'd like to have the cell that my father had before
me.”

ADVERTISEMENTS

Consider the Average Man (if there is such an animal). After having advertisements read to him, displayed in alluring glory
before him, shouted to him, and radioed to him, he thinks that he is a walking exemplar of the mighty
power of the press. After caressing his Ostermoor during the night, he arises, doffs his Sleep-Tite Pajamas and brushes his
molar organs with Fordhams Never-Stick Tooth Paste. He has a moment of momentary worry because he fears that he is
the man in five who has pyorrhea. He sits down to a breakfast of Virginia ham, Chinese eggs, Florida grapefruit,
Louisiana rice and Aunt Jemima pancakes. He now feels like a geographical league of nations. Although he never had an
idea, he spends a few minutes of precious time in trying for Liberty’s $50,000 prize contest. Although his best friends
have not told him, he quaffs a few quarts of Listerine, and vows that Hallie Tosis can go to the
deuce. He has power to start and power to go, and although he has a Fisher-Built body, he is a
standard of comparison, as he jaunts down to the office in his Flivverzine. Just ask the man who owns one.
On his way to town, he stops at the corner filling station and in order to avoid that embarrassing counter
conversation, he mutters through his Ed. Pinaud mustache the magic word “Livolax,” and he gets a gallon-size sample bottle of
Jack Hand’s Livolax to give to his hens which won't lay. At his office the first thing he does is
to jump up and down on his filing cabinet to see if they really are of sky-scraper construction. Not being
appeased at this, he pours some boiling water on his Valsparred desk. This completely satisfies him. He even turned on
his Polar Cub fan to get cool. A crew of workmen were enlarging his office to admit some Barrelled Sunlight,
and were using Beaver Board. He walked over a pile of loose board and stepped on a large nail, but
as he wore Holeproof hosiery and Paris Garters, no metal could touch him. All this in spite of the fact
that he just knew that his stenographer wore He couldn’t walk a mile for a Camel; he made a Lucky
Strike and shot a duck on the floor. Was he run down? Had he that tired feeling? He must immediately
regain his manhood from the dumbbells and vitamin foods. The classy cut appearance of his collegiate cut coat created quite
a sensation as he displayed his Suron specs to those poor unfortunates whose opportunity of becoming general managers had long
since vanished with their discarded copy of Snappy Stories. That school of correspondence has now been subverted to the you-just-know
club for the promulgation of the year round in Southern California. Wrigleying about the sea of finance in his Old
Tub canoe he finally arrives at the home of distinctive service and avails his surface saved dentals of the contact
with his lunch for the business men. This followed by their contact with the skin you love to touch made
him a satisfied buyer of sugar cured ham. Ask the man who owns one for further confirmation. The silent Royal
sings peacefully as the delicious and refreshing bottle purchased at the neighborhood drug store restores his youthful appearance. What a
whale of a difference a few cents make. All this is confided by his stenog in her True Story of
the proper way to reduce weight. She doesn’t guess—she knows. How wonderful his wife looks as she greets him on
the threshold of his own home. “Don’t credit me—it’s Boncilla,” she laughs. And well might she, he thinks. He obeyed
that impulse and bought a Mutual Life Insurance bond. His only regret was that he did not Kodak as he
went.

VANITY FAIR, the leading fashion journal for women says that Paris has decreed that women will not wear hosiery this
season and will paint the limbs instead. However, we believe that stockings will still have their supporters.

INDIAN (MOTOCYCLE) LOVE SONG

Moonshine, Moonshine
Palm Olive, Lux, near beer.
D-jer Kiss me?
Dearest Listerine.
We will live on Lake Fatima
Near the hills of Chesterfield.
Not now, Sapolio
Bon Ami, not now.

YOU JUST KNOW THEY WEAR THEM

When you and I were little kids, clothes expense was small, we wore the same kind all the time in
summer, spring, or fall. The pants until the age of two, of every kid and miss, were buttoned with a
safety pin and folded just like this.
