THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

We take pleasure in soliciting banquets

QUALITY
The Master Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

WE CARRY A COMPLETE LINE OF
Shirts, Hosiery, Pajamas and Shoes, everything for Men’s Wear
COME IN AND GIVE US A TRIAL
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
(DAVIDSON’S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

Fresh Daddies Prepared To Punish Unruly Rats
Frank Hudson Heads Court of Control—Freshmen Will be Given Consideration

SERVICE
With the arrival on the campus of another crowd of Freshmen, another Court of Control begins its stupendous task of convincing them that they are Freshmen and training them up in the way they should go. The court is headed this year by F. R. Hudson of the Senior class, who will preside at all meetings of the court and see that each case is given fair and careful consideration. Frank is well fitted for this position, having been a member of the court last year. The other members of the court are: Seniors, L. L. Deck, L. B. Huie, M. E. Miller; Juniors, C. C. Murchison, R. L. Lincoln; Sophomores, R. McRae, and P. R. Maulden.

Two and a half years ago when hazing was voluntarily abolished by the Student Body, the Court of Control was established to take care of unruly Freshmen, and it has been functioning successfully ever since. Its duty is to hear, investigate, and deal with the charges of the upper classmen against Freshmen for any kind of improper conduct, such as jibing, violating Freshman regulations, or breaking college traditions. Several modes of punishment are inflicted upon those convicted, varying in severity with the gravity of the offense. Each year the court operates more smoothly and efficiently, and it can be depended on to handle the Freshmen this year, for the judge has already announced that they mean business.

R. O. T. C. MAKES PLANS

New Victor Records
What a World This Would Be—Fox Trot
Introducing, “I Want a Lovable Baby”
Paul Whiteman and His Orchestra
She’s Got ’Im—Fox Trot
Fred Hamm and His Orchestra
By the Light of the Stars with Mandola and Guitar
Jim Miller-Charlie Farrell
The King Isn’t King Any More with Mandola and Guitar
Jim Miller-Charlie Farrell
Married the Bootlegger’s Daughter with Piano and Ukulele
Frank Crumit
How’s Your Folks and My Folks with Piano
The Happiness Boys

HIS MASTER’S VOICE
PARKER-GARDNER CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

(Continued from page 3)
will probably be done about the middle of October. The appointments for the advanced course students are as follows: Cadet major, L. B. Huie; cadet captains, D. G. Wilson, L. L. Deck, H. B. Ratchford, G. W. Smith, J. E. Moore, B. T. Crayton. Cadet first lieutenants are: C. E. Houston, A. S. Jones, W. D. Cox, H. Y. Alexander, J. J. Earnhardt, T. S. Baker; cadet second lieutenants, S. W. Moore, N. C. McLeod, A. B. Claytor, H. L. Vance, E. P. O'Connor, T. B. Thompson, C. R. McCarty, J. S. McRae. Cadet first sergeants will be: V. S. Broyles, T. F. Anderson, W. O. Green, C. C. Murchison, J. Z. McDaniel; cadet color sergeants, W. W. Keerans, R. H. McIlwaine; cadet platoon sergeants, R. A. Brand, J. A. Sims, H. S. Frierson, D. M. Calhoun, W. O. Puckett, H. L. Shelby, W. T. Davis, K. V. Woodham, R. L. Mitchell; cadet sergeants, J. M. Farrell, T. H. Hamilton, J. B. Webb, S. Wall, J. Hand, F. K. Bell.G. H. Zimmerman, J. B. Kukendall, T. G. McCutcheon, Alexander, A. McIver, J. W. Crinkley, O. H. Copeland, F. K. Justice. VOICE

The R. O. T. C. Band held its initial practice Monday afternoon in the upper room of the armory. There is apparently much good material in the fresh class and this combined with the old men who have played a year or so promises to be one of the best bands Davidson College has had in several years. To obtain the best results and to get the band in good shape it has been decided to have five practices a week for the first month. A number of interesting trips have been planned for the band this year, one of the main ones being a trip with the football team. Captain Crayton will consult with Dr. Douglas as to which trip the band will accompany the team. Another interesting trip will be the trip to the Charlotte races sometime this fall. The band played for these races last fall and the officials were very much pleased with the showing made. Captain Weems is also planning a concert trip to some neighboring town in the early future.

WILDCATS WILL OPEN (Continued from page 1)

The success of the court depends entirely upon the co-operation of the upper classmen. The Sophomores who will be made corporals have not yet been selected but this will be done soon. 

Durham is proving the flash of the squad at quarterback. In the backfield, Coach Corboy has five letter men back—Richardson, Harrell, McNeil, Alexander, Parkerson, and Newman. Jones is the only regular lineman returning, though Greene made his letter among the Elon forwards last fall. Both teams returned for practice minus their captains, “Sook” Boggs, captain-elect of the Davidson Wildcats, going to coach at McCallie School in Chattanooga, while Braxton, hefty center pilot of the Christians, did not report, having married since school closed. Davidson’s captain will be selected before The Davidsonian is out, while Elon will come to Davidson with a leader.

Professor Blythe studied at the University of Mexico at Mexico City and Doctor Hood taught at Carolina Summer School. Doctor Hood will travel in Europe and study in European universities this winter.

We Have Them TAILORED AT FASHION PARK

Painted from life at Yale and Princeton. College styles announced in two pages in Fashion Park red in last week’s Saturday Evening Post. Royal Park suits for college men and other well-dressed men. Fabrics carefully chosen to give generous value at this special price. Tailored in the college shops at Fashion Park.

Par-Kerry Topcoats

Choose a Par-Kerry topcoat for comfort, style, and all-round satisfaction. Shown in Egyptian sand tones, Glenover weaves, and other fine fabrics. Shown in $45.

The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

MANAGERS Men’s Section Street

There is much good material in the fresh class and this combined with the old men who have played a year or so promises to be one of the best bands Davidson College has had in several years. To obtain the best results and to get the band in good shape it has been decided to have five practices a week for the first month. A number of interesting trips have been planned for the band this year, one of the main ones being a trip with the football team. Captain Crayton will consult with Dr. Douglas as to which trip the band will accompany the team. Another interesting trip will be the trip to the Charlotte races sometime this fall. The band played for these races last fall and the officials were very much pleased with the showing made. Captain Weems is also planning a concert trip to some neighboring town in the early future.

The list of promising men includes individuals from the leading high schools of the state as well as Virginia—such schools as Durham High, Woodrow Wilson High of Portsmouth, Va., and others. In fact, it seems that one Kelly of the freshman class, of great fame at Bull Durham, is proving to be a standout.