THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

Alumni Notes

The following Alumni have recently changed their addresses:
1904—Rev. W. H. DuBose, from Bluefield, W. Va., to Johnson City, Tenn.
1906—Rev. L. T. Wilds, Jr., from Columbia, S. C., to Hendersonville, N.C.
1915—Rev. M. A. Boggs, from Dermott to Blytheville, Ark.
1916—Rev. W. C. Rourk, from Ellerbe to Burlington, N. C.

Rev. W. B. Sullivan, 1920, was elected moderator of the Presbytery of Granville, which met in Ernest Myatt Church, October
27th.

Wildkittens Leave for Final Game at Clemson

This afternoon Coach Monk Mattox will carry his squad of Wildkittens on an invasion of South Carolina, to encounter the
Clemson Freshmen. A nip and tuck affair is certain as both teams are light and speedy. Neither has torn the
world asunder with its victories this year. Their lack of weight has probably had a great deal to do with
this. As far as games won and lost are concerned, both are even, having won one and dropped three. Comparative
scores are few and far between but what is to be had indicates that the Clemson new boys have a
slight edge. The hope has been upset too often this season to depend upon it, however. The yearlings came out
of the State game with no major injuries and are in fine fettle for the Clemson go. The team has
been handicapped greatly by injuries during former games. James has developed into a fine punter and Wenberg showed that he
was extremely heady in the State game. From the above it can be gathered that if the Freshmen do not
come out with a win they will miss it by only a small margin.

SCRIBES AGREE THAT DAVIDSON PLAYED GREAT

The Davidson Wildcats lost their hopes for the state championship by bowing to the powerful Carolina eleven Saturday, but they
came back home with a world of honor showered on their broad and modest shoulders.

BEN DIXON

Take a look for instance at some of the things the sometimes cryptic Ben Dixon McNeill, of The News and
Observer, had to say in his story of the game:
"Carolina's 12 to 0 victory over the gallant corps of football players that has appeared on the Emerson arena this
year."
"Davidson has nothing to be ashamed of in the defeat."
"Davidson was defeated but not whipped."

NUTT CALDWELL

Nutt Caldwell, of The Winston-Salem Journal, said that "Davidson put up a scrappy fight," and that "the absolute star of
the game was the quarterback of the vanquished eleven, Hendrix." He goes on to say that "Hendrix ran the team
as it had never been run before."

GATE CITY SCRIBES

A. W. Stamey, of The News, puts in: "... for the Wildcats, swift and artful, presented one of the finest
spectacles of football ever displayed on the local gridiron." He points out that "the Tar Heels had their hands full
from the beginning and the final score does not serve as an accurate indication of the relative performances of the
two teams." Stamey calls Hendrix "redoubtable" and the Wildcat attacks "furious." He adds about Hendrix: "He proved the swiftest and
most evasive object encountered by the Tar Heels this season."

In addition, Hendrix and Grey are two of the fastest backs to appear in Tar Heel territory in many years.—Raleigh
News and Observer.

The Wildcats looked far better in defeat than the Tar Heels in victory. —Greensboro News.

The Carolina line was up against the stiffest proposition they have faced this year when they struck the Wildcat forwards.—Chapel
Hill Grey and Hendrix, the swiftest pair of backs seen in many years.—Durham Herald. (Note: The capitalization is theirs.)

TO RAISE FUND FOR MISSIONS

Plans are being made to put on the annual drive for the Mission Fund during the first part of December.
The money raised in this campaign will go to the support of Warren Cox, of the class of '24, who
is teaching in the Hangchow Christian College. This is his third year in the work and the Davidson

TURBIVILLE’S BOARDING HOUSE

Opening New Table Monday November 23
RESERVE PLACE NOW
$22.50 PER MONTH
BOB MITCHELL, SHORTY WILSON, Mgrs.

Memorial Services Held Here Sunday Evening

Students and Faculty Join to Honor Memory of Frank Hudson

The Y. M. C. A. vesper service of Sunday evening was preceded by a memorial service to Frank Hudson, popular
member of the Senior class, who was killed in an automobile accident near Chapel Hill on the evening of November
13th. Dr. Richards had charge of the service, in which members of the faculty and student body took part. The
love and respect paid our recent fellow student in the memorial service was a tribute of honor. Dr. Martin was
called on to represent the college, and after expressing his deep sorrow and distress, he gave place to Professor Currie,
who, he said, knew Frank better because he had majored in the subjects taught by him. Professor Currie, in a
few touching words, told of his relation with Frank as a student, and what his loss would mean to the
college. T. H. Hollingsworth, president of the Y. M. C. A., told of the loss to the student body of
the friend and fellow student. Frank has gone from us; his name will be unanswered in the class roll-call, but
God saw that he was ready, and it was His will that was done.Taken, we may take comfort from the
fact that he was ready, and so live ourselves, that we, too, may be ready when it is God's will
that we should leave this earthly home for the heavenly. Dr. Frazer, president of Queens College, before introducing the speaker
of the regular service, said that the sister college sent its heartfelt sympathy to Davidson in the bereavement recently suffered.
Dr. G.C.W. Somerville, Professor of Religious Education at Queens, gave a very interesting talk to the student body, his subject
being “Christ, the Mediator Between God and Man.”

The world today is dominated by two forms of worship: polytheism and atheism; a worship of many gods, pleasure, chance,
luck, money. Of this latter kind, there are no avowed, but many practical atheists. The text was taken from 1
Timothy 1:12-20 and 2:1-6. “For there is one God, and one mediator between God and man, the man Jesus Christ.”
“Christ came upon the world as a man, and not as God,” the speaker said. “He was flesh and blood
as we are, suffering fatigue and pain, forced to feed and clothe the body as we are. He was, in
these respects, a solid man. But He was more than a man, for He was perfect; perfect in manhood as
He was in the Godhead. Christ, even as we, went to school to be prepared for the task that was
to follow.”

“Christ was to serve as the mediator,” he continued, “to reconcile the alienated children to the Father, and He will
intercede for us when we appear before the throne on the day of judgment.” Dr. Somerville cited the story of
a girl, heiress of a prominent Kentucky family, who gave up home for her husband, her father not allowing her
to live with him after the marriage. Thus she lived, in a poor house, for 20 years, in sight of
her father’s home. Both suffered the estrangement, and all could have been righted by someone to come between them to
smooth out the difficulty. That is the way Christ serves as a mediator between an estranged Father and Son. Christ
always is willing to listen to our plea. He is ready to intercede for those who confess their sins to
Him. Those who do not confess their sins before Him have missed the meaning of life. He is in sympathy
with us and will intercede for us before God on the day of judgment.

Students have supported him loyally in his work there. The drive will be conducted under the auspices of the Y.M.C.A.,
and it is seeking the wholehearted support of every man in the student body. It is an excellent opportunity to
have a direct part in the work on the foreign field. A letter is expected from Warren Cox within the
next few days. This letter will be published in The Davidsonian and will acquaint the students with the nature of
his work. The Y.M.C.A. Cabinet has requested that this matter be given careful thought in the next few weeks so
that the campaign may go through with the same success it has had in the past two years.

Since its founding some weeks ago, the Beaver Club has initiated a busy program of activities. These have in the
main been limited to the entertainment of visiting teams of every character. Especially valuable assistance was rendered by the Beavers
during the State and Guilford games. Much success attended their efforts to make the visiting athletes feel that they were
really in a friendly institution. The Wake Forest Tennis team and the various Freshman football squads were also shown hospitable
attention. The Beaver Club is a Sophomore Honor Society founded and sponsored by the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity. Election to
the club brings both honor and responsibility for genuine work to those chosen. In providing entertainment to various visiting groups,
athletic, literary, musical, and otherwise, it will fill a long-felt need at Davidson. It has numerous prototypes in other leading
colleges. Members of the Beaver Club for this year are: Chalmers Davidson, Lynn McClain, Walter Lingle, Carter Rowe, Malcolm Lockhart,
John Foster, Richards Carr, Robert Miller, Val Guthery, and Howard Arbuckle.

DRAMATIC CLUB WILL PRESENT PLAYS

The Davidson College Dramatic Club will present three original one-act plays on Thanksgiving night in Shearer Hall. This is the
first program of the year for the organization. The plays will be: “A Little Bleeding,” by Prof. J.J. Erwin; “The
Conqueror of the Gods,” by Wood Brown; and “Tailor-Made,” by Frederick Smith. Work on the plays started the first of
this week.

Of all dumb questions asked by freshmen, we think the one asked by Maddox tops the list. He wanted to
know if the sign “Wholesale Grocery Inc.” was the name of the sign painter or did he really make or
sell ink (inc.) there.

Attention of Davidson students is directed to the special prices now effective on our college stationery:
100 CALLING CARDS FOR FIFTY CENTS
100 LETTERHEADS AND ENVELOPES, ONE DOLLAR
B. & R. STATIONERY CO.
BETHESDA, ILL.

Mooresville Enterprise
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Printed every Thursday. Job printing in all commercial lines. Advertising rates and prices on work furnished on application.

LET US FIX YOU FOR THAT HUNT
We have a good line of shotguns to sell or to rent. Rates $1.00 per day. Also dependable shells.
MOORESVILLE BICYCLE SHOP, Mooresville, N.C.

YOUR APPEARANCE
Is very important, in fact, it is absolutely necessary to appear your best at all times. LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N.C.

P.C. McILWAINE, Mer-
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N.C.

“CORRECT CLOTHIERS”
Suits, Overcoats, Hats, Shoes, and Furnishings
Our customers prove it---our Clothes prove it
You'll be satisfied---our past proves it
BELK BROTHERS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
