THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925

College and Its Effect on Religion is Subject for Student Discussion

Weekly Discussion Groups Attract Large Number of Students to Wednesday Evening Meetings

At the weekly discussion group which was held on Wednesday night at 9:30, the question which was discussed was, “How
does college affect a man’s faith?” Out in the everyday life of the world of today, there is much discussion
on this question, and it has led many to think that a college training is not worth the risk. This
is the problem which the men of Davidson set themselves to last night.

“A man’s religion is one of the prime factors in his life, and if a college education is going to
remove that factor, or so distort it that it is entirely different, is it advisable to seek the education?”

“But does the college education always, or even for a great part of the time, have that tendency? Is it
the fault of the college or just what is the fault of the man himself? What is the relation of
a college education to the great number of religious changes in the lives of men?”

These are some of the questions which were brought up at the meeting and thrashed out for the benefit of
the men who were present. These discussion groups are different from any others which have ever been held on the
Davidson campus. Formerly, it has been the custom to have a discussion on each of the floors in the various
dormitories. This year Roland Parker, who is in charge of this part of the Y. M. C. A. work, adopted
the plan of having two of the professors lead the groups. Professor Fleagle leads one of them and Professor Foreman
the other one. Both of them are capable, as all of us know, and they keep the discussion on the
question at issue. So far, attendance has not been as great as was hoped for, but the ones who did
come have gotten a great deal of good from the meetings. It is hoped that a larger number will come
out and get the good from these discussions in the future.

Delta Pi Kappa Frat to Petition National Order

Local Journalistic Fraternity Plans To Petition National Association

The Delta Pi Kappa, an honorary journalistic fraternity, met last week for the purpose of promoting newspaper activities for the
coming year, and also to consider plans for petitioning a national journalistic fraternity. No definite action was taken in regard
to such a petition. The new home for this organization is in the honorary fraternity house on Concord Avenue, where
all meetings and discussions relative to journalistic work will be held. Plans are on foot to give the members an
opportunity to hear several eminent newspaper writers, who will give a number of lectures at different times during the year.
These men are connected with all the prominent newspapers of the state, and the fraternity is fortunate in procuring such
competent speakers. Only those men who show by their work on “The Davidsonian” staff and Reporters’ Club that their achievements
merit it are considered for membership in the chapter. All students are eligible provided they show extraordinary ability along journalistic
lines; however, no bids will be extended this fall. The present members of Delta Pi Kappa are: C. F. Smith,
R. B. Parker, C. F. Monk, G. M. Eddington, A. Y. Bowie, and W. E. Milton, of the Senior class.
The members from the Junior Class are W. H. Branch, L. D. Wharton, and P. F. Jones.

AMENDMENT PROPOSED

(Continued from page 1)

student body committee with the aid of Associate-Justice Frazier of the South Carolina Supreme Court. It has been exceedingly satisfactory
except for this one clause. In the past, it has generally been understood that a majority of a single vote
would either convict or acquit the accused. This is considered by many to be unfair to the judgment of the
student council, composed as it is of student electors. With the adoption of this amendment, the student council will be
vested with more dignity and power.

Mrs. John Hill, of Davidson, has been critically ill at her home for several weeks.

Dr. C. F. Meyers to Lead Revival

It has been noted in the past few years that the evangelistic services have been a great success. This success
is due in a large measure to the speakers and to the students who have shown a great interest in
the meetings. This year plans are being made for a series of meetings better, even, than those held during previous
years. Dr. C. F. Myers, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church in Greensboro, is to be the speaker. The meetings
will be held in Shearer Hall on the evenings of October 26, 27, and 28. Those in charge are very
fortunate in securing Dr. Myers. He is a forceful speaker and an influential man. He is a graduate of W.
and L. He took a postgraduate course at Princeton University and Union Theological Seminary at Richmond. After ordination as a
minister, he took up work in West Virginia. He held pastorates in Williamson and Charleston. From Charleston, he came to
Greensboro, where he has been for the past nine years. One of the special features of the meeting is the
mixed quartet and pianist that Dr. Myers will bring from Greensboro. The director of this quartet is Mr. Charles Troxile,
formerly of New York, but now director of the choir in Dr. Myers’ church. The members of this quartet are
especially trained and the prospects are that it will be splendid. While here, Dr. Myers will give part of his
time over to boys who desire help with personal problems. A schedule will be made for personal interviews. These meetings
are for the students. They are being promoted by the Y. M. C. A. and should meet with a hearty
response from the students.

WILDCATS WIN FROM BLUESTOCKINGS

(Continued from page 1)

unable to make another first down. P. C. made her only earned first down in the second period. Coach Monk
Younger, however, put a different light on the game in the second half, sending his boys back into the game
with plenty of fight in them. It began to tell, for in a few minutes Dick Grey returned a punt
from midfield to the 30-yard line. Several plays carried it on down the field, aided by two offside penalties for
five yards each on P. C., until Black shoved the pigskin across for a touchdown. Several minutes later, Lucien Wells
intercepted a pass on P. C.’s 47-yard line, returning it four yards. This time the Wildcats started a straight march
for the goal line. Twenty-eight yards of this came in two plays, Grey clipping off 13 yards around end, and
when it was third down and five yards to go, Hewlette sent Wells through the center of the line for
15 yards and a touchdown, which was another thrilling event. Laird, for the first time this season, failed tokick extra
point after the second touchdown. The cog in the Presbyterian College machine that kept the score down considerably was Kirven,
center. He was making tackles, right, left, and straight ahead, and was easily the star of the P. C. team.
His passing to the backs was off somewhat, but he made up for that in his tackling. Stevens was largely
responsible for the few gains around end, nabbing the players almost every time they attempted to circle his end. Grey
and Stamps had a battle Saturday. Each of these men kicked 17 times, the average for Stamps being 40 yards,
and for Grey 44 yards. While Stamps sent three punts down the field for over 50 yards, Grey registered one
for 76 yards, two for 60 yards, and one for 55 yards. Grey was outclassed when kicking against the wind,
and in this respect Stamps excelled. However, Grey did send the ball over the goal line for 60 yards on
the kick-off against the wind. Wells was again a feature for Davidson, Hewlette calling upon him time and time again
to carry the ball. He received a 30-yard pass, intercepted another one, returned a punt for 35 yards, and drove
over the P. C. for 15 yards and a touchdown, in addition to gaining other ground. In the line Bohannon
and Vance were features, the former showing alacrity in getting down the field under punts, twice nailing the receiver in
his tracks. Vance was playing his usual steady game, being better in the last half. Ritchie smeared the line several
times.

By Quarters

With a strong west wind blowing, Presbyterian College had the advantage in the first quarter, winning the toss-up and choosing
to defend that goal. Against the wind, Grey kicked off over 60 yards, behind the goal, giving Presbyterian College the
ball on their own 20-yard line. Failing to gain, P. C. kicked. In three plays Davidson made first down, and
a second first down was registered a few moments later when a pass, Grey to Wells, was completed for 30
yards. These were the only two first downs for Davidson that half. After several plays, Laird attempted a place kick
but failed, the wind swerving the ball from the uprights. The remainder of the quarter was an exchange of punts,
the ball on Davidson's 18-yard line in Davidson possession, third down and six to go.

Second

Grey opened the second quarter by kicking 80 yards to P. C.’s six-yard line. Stamps for P. C. kicked immediately.
In a few minutes, Grey kicked 60 yards over the goal line for a touchback. Then followed a continuous exchange
of punts between Stamps and Grey, a second time this quarter Grey sending it over the goal line on a
60-yard punt. The only earned first down P. C. made came in this quarter when Robinson drove over for 10
yards.

Third

The third period started off with a rush with Wells’ return of Stamps’ kick-off for 35 yards. After a couple
of exchanges, Grey received a punt in midfield, returning it 20, and then began the march for a touchdown, Davidson
making it in two downs, one of them a WPL (er, touchdown, for it being unearned). The line fought hard
to stave off the touchdown, but it took the Wildcats three downs to carry it across when they had but
three yards to go. A few minutes after the next kick-off, Wells intercepted a pass, and followed by continuous plunging,
he scored the second touchdown, garnering two first downs in the march. Just as the quarter ended, Vance recovered a
P. C. fumble on the latter's 28-yard line.

Fourth

Twice in the fourth quarter was Presbyterian College forced to kick from behind her own goal line. It was a
see-saw affair throughout, interspersed with many time-outs for the last period. P. C. made her second first down, which was
unearned, in this quarter when Davidson was penalized 20 yards. Nothing was displayed by either team, and when the game
ended the ball was in Presbyterian College possession, on her own 38-yard line, second down and 15 yards to go.

Line-up and summary:

Presbyterian (0) Position Davidson (13)
Stevens LE Pinkney
Nial LT Laird
Kirven C McConnell
Wells RG J. Grey
Baker RT Bohannon
Vance RE Hewlette
Robinson (C) QB Wells
Wilson FB Black (C)

Score by quarters:
Presbyterian 0 0 0 0—0
Davidson 0 0 7 6—13

Scoring touchdowns: Black and Wells. Extra point from placement, Laird. Substitutes: Presbyterian College, Witherspoon for Griffith, Kennedy for Wilson, McKenzie
for Kirven, Wilson for Kennedy, Kirven for McKenzie, Gregg for Woodley, Kennedy for Robinson, Walker for Timmons. For Davidson, Harrison
for Wells, Ritchie for Baker, Arrowood for Bohannon, Leggette for Harrison, Nisbet for Hewlette, Christian for Vance, Wells for Leggette,
Baker for Ritchie, Bohannon for Arrowood, Hewlette for Nisbet, Vance for Christian.

Officials: Referee, Hartsell (N. C. State); umpire, Foster (Hampden-Sidney); head linesman, Frost (Citadel).

---

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

---

Prince Albert

Double’s a bubble, just as the song says. And you can stick it with the stem of your old jimmy-pipe,
filled to the brim with good old Prince Albert. It’s a specific! Ask any jimmy-piper who ever butted into trouble.
Cool as the zone-of-kelvination you read about in the refrigerator ads. Sweet as the kiss of spring on a winter-weary
brow. Fragrant as locust blossoms. Soothing as a cradle-song. And—P. A. can’t bite your tongue or parch your throat. The
Prince Albert process fixes that! Get on the sunny side of life with a jimmy-pipe and P. A. Tie a
tidy red tin to trouble. Smoke the one tobacco that’s got everything you ever wished for—Prince Albert. Quicker you get
going, the sooner your worries will be over. Men who thought they never could smoke a pipe are now P.
A. fans. You'll be a cheer-leader too!

© 1925, R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound tins, half-pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with
every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process. Look at the U. S. revenue stamp—there are
TWO full ounces in every tin.
