THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

Listen, Bebe, Don’t You Let the College Shiek Scare You

LISTEN, BEBE, DON’T YOU LET THE COLLEGE SHIEK SCARE YOU

Howzat? Yeah, this is Junior Speaking. Whatja gonna do about it? Listen, Bebe, I sez you’re coming up and you
know your uncle doesn’t utter no needless words. Easter bonnet? How come you talk so foolish. Girl alive! When you
rest your heavenly orbs upon the temporary flashes of beauty upon this here campus you'll know when I sez a
thing is, it isn’t ain’t. Gosh sakes, why wear a bonnet less there is an appreciating audience. And my oh
my! This audience is nuthin’ else ‘previous to that very thing. We always admires both culinary and millinery arts. Yes
indeed. And when it is all said and done you may state as the old bird who sez: Veni, vidi,
vici. For I'll tell the world old kiddo that it’s wery wainy here. We also take you wide in Mr.
Lewis’ community vehicle. Anyway it has four wheels and an anterior and posterior quarter. Likewise you will wike he. For
they all like me. Just can’t resist. Look me over. And those beautiful trees, those beautiful campus. She’s all set
for the queen's arrival. Come on up and be my little queenie, And what I mean there are gonna be
some free attractions. We could take in all such. I might even point out the members of the Glee Club
also too. And there is a golf course which is sometimes used for such. But it is now used as
a promisemade. You don’t know what this is really like until you see that old North Carolina moon shoutin’ out:
Um - - my. So you're coming? Oh, I just knew you would. And in comiclusion, old deah, you know
this papa ain’t gonna do nothing but enjoy having yours truly up here. Don’t be mislead. Naw. That Junior Speaking
stuff oughtn’t to scare ya. I’m not gonna make none. I’m saving mine for private individual use. See you up
here and I resez my former statement which is: See you Thursday, kiddo.

Roland Parker to Head Twenty-six Next Year

D. G. Wilson and R. W. Graves Are Elected to Offices

At the election of the officers for the rising Senior class, which was held last Thursday morning, R. B. Parker
was elected president. Other nominees were D. G. Wilson, E. K. Regen and T. S. Baker. A second ballot taken
between Parker and Baker was necessary. On account of lack of time the election of vice-president and secretary had to
be postponed until Friday morning. Nominees for vice-president were D. G. Wilson, F. R. Hudson, J. W. Anderson, and A.
Y. Bowie, Jr., and Wilson was elected. Those nominated for secretary were C. E. Houston, R. W. Graves and J.
M. Garrison. Graves was victorious.

Roland Brice Parker, of Farmville, N. C., has shown himself to be a tireless worker since he came to Davidson
as a Freshman. Not only is he a scholar, and an intercollegiate debater, but he made a reputation as a
salesman of Lyceum tickets, of which the Junior class was in charge. When there was any money to be collected,
he could always be counted on to collect his share. He is noted for his unceasing efforts to reach any
goal, which is set before him, for his clear-headed thinking, and his keen judgment. The Senior class presidency is an
important office, and requires a lot of work. Only a live man can competently fill the place. In electing Parker,
the class has chosen a man, upon which they feel they can rely, and who is capable of filling the
office.

D. G. Wilson, of Atlanta, has also shown a keen interest in college activities. He has worked hard on many
occasions for the interest of Davidson and his class. As chairman of the Junior Speaking committee, he has displayed some
rare ability, and the vice-presidency is filled to its capacity by this man.

R. W. Graves, of Rome, Ga., is another honor roll man. Any one who can make Davidson’s honor roll has
plenty of vim and vigor. He has a bountiful store of good, common sense to go with his other talents,
and, as secretary he will be one of the best.

HOLLINGSWORTH ORATES TO WIN JUNIOR MEDAL

Popular Speaker from Atlanta Continues His Forensic Success by Winning Friday

Hayden Hollingsworth, of Atlanta, Ga., won the Junior Orators’ Medal Friday morning in the opening feature of what promises to
be one of the best Junior Speakings in the history of the college. Hollingsworth speaking on the “Triumph of Idealism”
won out with a forcible speech that won the audience. His delivery and subject were both well in hand.

Five other Juniors spoke Friday morning in Shearer for the same honor and all delivered speeches that equaled those of
previous years. Glenn Eddington speaking on “Progress and Poverty” was one of the best speakers of the morning. W. E.
Milton spoke on “Samuel Gompers,” giving a very entertaining account of some of the ideals of the greatest leader of
American labor. Jim Moore followed with a good speech on “Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence.” J. M. Appleby, one of the
leading scientists of the Junior class chose to speak on the broad subject of “Science” and presented some very striking
facts to the audience. Ben Franklin was the last orator of the day, taking “Abraham Lincoln and the Constitution” for
the subject of a very beneficial speech. All in all the Junior Oratorical was one of the best of many
years and much credit goes to the losing speakers as well as to Hollingsworth.

Friday Afternoon Dope

It looks as if two boys from the Piedmont section of North Carolina will open Easter Monday’s game on the
mound for both Carolina and Davidson. While Flake Laird was slated as the only regular Wildcat hurler and while he
turned in a very welcome win over the Tar Heels last year, he has not yet stuck his stride. Laird
is from Atlanta. On the other hand “Lefty” Oden from Greensboro, the Gate City of the Piedmont section, has been
improving all along. He has been showing some good stuff and with the proper support should go well. Friday morning
reports from the Tar Heel camp brought word that Holshouser, a Rowan County boy, may start the game for Carolina.
This is his first year on the Carolina varsity. Last season Holshouser was the premier hurler of the Freshmen at
Chapel Hill. He pitched among several others great games a no-hit, no-run game against the V. M. I. Cadets. The
fact that Davidson has been doing very badly in the first part of the season may lead Bill Fetzer to
risk Holshouser Monday afternoon.

Wildcats Lose Another As State Doubles Score

Techmen Pound the Ball to Win 9 to 4—Alford Hits Double And Triple

(Special to The Observer)

RALEIGH, April 9—A mightier punch and a smoother defense at critical moments gave North Carolina State an easy 9 to
4 victory over Davidson here this afternoon in the second meeting of the year between the Techmen and the Wildcats.
State opened its season with Davidson on April 1 and chalked up its first victory by a margin of 10
to 8.

The Techmen hit Laird opportunely and the three errors kicked in by his teammates came when they hurt. On the
other hand MelIver and Morrison and although widely distributed, the Tech infield was charged with five bobbles, the fielding lapses,
in the face of a big lead, failed to do much damage.

The hitting of Gladstone, Tech second sacker, featured the game. In four trips to the platter he cracked out a
double and three singles. Alford, with a double and a triple, was the offensive star for Davidson, and Wells, with
a fine running catch, turned in the fielding feature.

Coach Doak used sixteen players during the afternoon, starting Al Johnston at third base in place of Holland and sending
young Harrill to first base for Captain “Red” Lassiter. Both newcomers broke in nicely, and the former got two hits.

The box score:

N. C. STATE— AB R H PO A E
Correll, cf 4 1 0 2 0 0
Gladstone, 2b 4 0 2 0 2 0
W. Faulkner, 2b 1 0 0 0 0 0
Johnston, 3b 2 0 1 2 0 1
Holland, 3b 2 0 1 2 0 0
Johnson, ss 4 0 1 1 2 1
Griaulkner, c 4 0 0 10 0 0
Davies, lf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Wells, rf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Lassiter, 1b 0 0 0 3 0 0
Shuford, lf 0 0 0 0 0 0
Gilbert, ss 4 1 2 0 2 2
Morrison, p 1 0 0 0 3 0
xAustin 1 0 0 0 0 0
xxTate 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 34 9 10 27 14 5

xBatted for Harrill in fifth.
xxBatted for Melver in sixth.

DAVIDSON— AB R H PO A E
Covington, 3b 4 0 1 0 2 0
Woodham, 1b 4 0 0 0 0 0
Alford, cf 4 1 2 0 0 0
Vance, rf 3 0 0 1 0 0
Laird, p-rf 3 0 0 1 3 0
Hampton, p 1 0 0 0 1 0eas a Motels: sees see ss leas 4 722446) 3 Score by innings:
Davidson 2285 see | N. C. State 001 010—4 302 00x—Q Summary: Two-base hits, Gladstone, Shuford, Holland, Alford. Three-base hits,
Alford, Wrenn. Sacrifice hits, Correll, Shuford, McIver. Double plays, Gilbert to Lassiter. Base on balls, off McIver 0, off Morrison
2, off Laird 1, off Hampton 0. Struck out, by McIver 3, by Morrison 0, by Laird 1, by Hampton
1. Hit by pitched balls, Wells, by McIver; Lassiter, by Hampton. Hits, off McIver 4 in 6 innings, off Morrison
3 in 3 innings, off Hampton 0 in 2 innings. Wild pitch, McIver. Left on bases, State 3, Davidson 9.
Time, 1 hour 52 minutes. Umpire, Mr. Henderson.

Speaking From the hollow of an old poplar across the vast open spaces, into the stream there peeked a pair
of tiny shining eyes, a cold damp nose, a pair of flopped ears, and a round white head. These eyes
beheld the mellow moon as it sifted its beams of silvery light through the budding branches of the trees. This
little head pondered over a task very near at hand for it was none other than our well-beloved Easter Bunny.

“Easter is drawing near,” mused this little creature, “and nearer still is that great event of Junior Speaking. It is
now the 8th of April and unless I make my visit tonight the boys will be scattered far and wide.
Then too, some of my gifts will be necessary to a full enjoyment of their vacation. Let me then be
up and doing.” Hence our little friend retraced his steps to his store of riches and began to consider the
most appropriate gifts for the hard-working, energetic young men of Davidson.

“First on my list there appears the name of Westbrook, that young musician from the sand hills of North Carolina.
To be sure, this dawn-grey suit must reach him before he departs for his home town. He will doubtless be
called upon to furnish the music for Sunday morning services at all the churches in town. What a mighty volume
of notes will pour forth from this young Caruso's expanded chest as a result of this masterpiece of bodily ornament.”

“Ho, Ho,” cried Mr. Bunny, as he suddenly came across a little object that was very puzzling to him, “this
will just suit that Taylor lad from Tennessee, he's such a puzzle to everyone who knows him. He's a puzzle
to the Profs, who try to make him work; he’s a puzzle to the girls, who think he is slow;
he's a puzzle to his audience when he sings bass in the Glee Club; and he’s a puzzle to his
dad, who wonders where his money goes. This will make him still a puzzle—this cross-word puzzle tie.”

At this point Mr. Bunny unfolded an old letter blackened with age, and read again these lines from Dan Cupid:
“And now my dear Bunny will you not be so kind as to co-operate with me in this matter of
Mr. Philip Cox, seeing that I am helpless working against such obstructions as this fellow wears on his upper lip?
I will consider my efforts fruitless unless through your kindness you leave a pair of clippers and an auto-strop for
this foolish young man.” Yours for results, DAN CUPID.

Thus our kind-hearted and considerate Bunny deliberated how he might make happy every heart in the camp of his neighboring
Wildcats. Then in the wee hours of the night, while his benefactors were enraptured by the soothing arms of Morpheus,
he made his secret visit, leaving those gifts most adapted to the mind, body, and soul of each individual.

RAIN FLURRIES GIVE SPEAKING BAD START

Rain which started early Friday morning and continued throughout the morning threw a damper upon the spirits of those who
were anxiously awaiting the start of what bid fair to be one of the best if not the best of
Junior Speakings. The traditional custom of the weatherman at Davidson to pour out an aqueous blessing upon the inhabitants of
the little college town and especially the students with every event of importance has once more been lived up to.
Newspaper bulletins give promise of little relief from rain and even hint of thunderstorms. However, the Davidson students are making
the most of it. Last year the Easter holidays presented some of the finest weather ever seen at Davidson with
the moon in just the right state of fullness. Weeks before this year’s event those interested had been examining the
almanac and weather reports to discover what would be the results this year. A moon of unusual beauty was out
Wednesday night and early Thursday evening.

DON WHARTON.

Easter Bunny Awaits Junior for Sights of Life

A Store and more---an Institution! Bon Marche Charlotte, N. C.

More Queens Girls to Entertain at Davidson

Spanish Club Here to Draw From Queens College for Press Benefit

On Friday night, May 1, the Spanish club of Davidson, assisted by that of Queens College, will give an attractive
entertainment in Shearer Hall, part of the proceeds of which will go to defray expenses of the North Carolina Collegiate
Press Association convention, which will be held here at that time.

The program will be interesting, varied, snappy, and will be thoroughly enjoyable, even to those who have never studied Spanish.
It will include:

Two or three numbers by the Queens girls, Popular jazz songs, translated into Spanish, and some typical Spanish songs. That
irresistible Spanish music! A rollicking farce that will make one split his sides with laughter. A Spanish national dance rendered
by two imported Mexican dancers. A picturesque Bull Fight, in all the setting and atmosphere of romance that was to
be found in medieval Spain.

The program will be one that will appeal to those who have studied Spanish, and those who have no knowledge
of the language. Enough of variety and skill has been planned.

Four Students Received Into Alpha Phi Epsilon Forensic Fraternity

Initiate One Junior and Three Sophomores

H. L. Shaw, L. D. Wharton, C. W. Williams, and D. H. Stewart were initiated into membership in the Alpha
Phi Epsilon at a meeting held Thursday night. The initiation was held in Theta Upsilon Omega hall. Shaw has won
three society debating and declaiming medals and is a member of the debating team which will meet Presbyterian College of
South Carolina on the local rostrum April 25. Wharton represented Davidson in the Freshmen intercollegiate debate against Wake Forest last
year and is also on the varsity team that meets Wake Forest at Queens College May 1. Williams took part
in the Freshman debate last year in which Davidson won over the University of North Carolina Freshmen. He debated on
the Davidson varsity against Emory at Atlanta last fall. Stewart was also a member of the Freshman team that met
the University of North Carolina Freshmen. He debated on the Davidson varsity against Emory at Atlanta last fall. Stewart was
also a member of the Freshman team that met the University of North Carolina in the triangle contest last year,
and at present is an active literary society worker. Shaw is a member of the Junior class, while Stewart, Williams,
and Wharton are Sophomores. The chapter roll of the Alpha Phi Epsilon includes, besides the new men: J. E. Holshouser,
A. C. Ray, A. N. Moffett, D. B. Wharton, P. M. Patterson, W. M. Gracey, R. B. Parker, A. H.
Hollingsworth, E. T. Pullen, B. U. Ratchford, A. Y. Bowie; and these three faculty members: Professors J. M. McConnell, A.
Currie, W. L. Porter, C. K. Brown, and Carl Wachter.
