THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

Among the young ladies who were home during the holidays were Misses Sara and Martha Hamilton, Sara and Lois Barnette, and Loretta and Edith Mooney.

Town News

The Booklovers Club met with Mrs. Shewmake on Friday. Dr. J. M. Douglas was the speaker. Dr. Martin has been absent on a trip which took him to New York, Chicago, and points intermediate. Mrs. Ellenwood has returned to Davidson and is stopping with Mrs. Paisley. Miss Margaret Douglas, who is home on furlough, has recently returned from a speaking tour in New Orleans and adjacent points. Miss Mary Black is home again, much improved after a stay in the hospital in Statesville. Mrs. E. J. Erwin was hostess to the Thelemites Club on Friday night. Prof. and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle have had as their guests Mr. and Mrs. Guy C. Allen and son of Greenwood, S. C. Mrs. Wilson MacConnell has had as her guest for several days, Miss Isabel Albee, of Boston, Mass. Miss Nan Wood, of Charlottesville, Va., has been the guest of Mrs. Moore McConnell. Mrs. W. W. Hunter has been called to New York by the illness of her brother.

MISS ELOISE MARTIN ANNOUNCES ENGAGEMENT

With a large number of friends on Saturday afternoon, April 11th, Miss Eloise Martin was at home, formally announcing the engagement of her daughter, Eloise, to Mr. Armand London (Buck) Currie; the marriage to take place early in September.

Buck Currie is well-known to all Davidson students who have been here two or three years and to a great many more. In his college days, Buck was a mainstay on the Varsity nine. Following graduation, he taught for a year as principal of the Davidson school. The next year, Buck was summoned to pilot the affairs of the Y. M. C. A. He and Pat Crawford worked together, then turned the Y over to their successors. Buck went to the Seminary at Louisville, where he is finishing his second year.

Miss Martin received her education with Davidson schools and Converse College. At present, she resides with her parents in Davidson and holds a teaching position in the public schools of the village. The Davidsonian, and all Davidsonians, congratulate Buck and wish for him and his bride-to-be all the happiness that life can offer.

A school for cheerleaders boasting an enrollment of 20 is being conducted at the University of Vermont, for the purpose of providing the institution with capable cheerleaders. A green V within a green circle on a white sweater is awarded to these men by the action of the Athletic Council—Old Gold and Black.

This summer, the University of South Carolina will conduct a language summer course in France. It will be the first of its kind in this state. The preliminary courses, covering pronunciation, diction, etc., will be offered at the University of Poitiers from July 15 to August 7. The finishing course will begin on August 10 and last through August 22 and is to be held at Sorbonne College of the University of Paris. Credits for work done in this foreign summer school of the University will be given on the same basis as in regular summer school work.—P. C. Bluestocking.

Out of 4,790 students at the Texas University, only 12 are foreign students.—Crimson-White.

A Bachelor Club on the University of Arizona campus has a membership of 259. As a punishment for “queening,” a member of the club is forced to wear a “mother Hubbard” on the campus for an entire day.—Crimson-White.

Statistics show that the University of Pennsylvania has the largest number of graduates under the national colors. Of the 136 commissioned officers who are graduates of the University, nearly 60 percent hold commissions above the rank of captain—Richmond Collegian.

Four Left

One is one-fifth of five. That's simple. Take one away from five and you have four left. That too is simple. There is a rule which states, “If you get started the rest will come easy.” Well, the Crimson and Gray baseball team has started. They have subtracted the “big” one (N. C. State) from the “big five,” the rest, Carolina, Wake Forest, Duke, and Davidson, ought to come easy.—Guilfordian.

BAND ENGAGED FOR AUTO RACES AT NEW SPEEDWAY

College Musicians Selected by Officials to Play at Charlotte Course

The Davidson College Band will go to the Charlotte Speedway on Monday, May 11, to assist in the musical entertainment for the Memorial Day races. This is the second set of races to be held in the newly built speed oval. The band has been selected as one of the best musical organizations in the vicinity of Charlotte. Plans have not been definitely decided upon as yet and it is uncertain whether the band will...play as an individual unit or in cooperation with a band from Charlotte.

A tf Lb AN FT A the style center of the South—the store of the Southern colleges SHOWING THEIR LINE OF LATE SPRING AND EARLY SUMMER COLLEGE CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, HATS, AND SHOES

Lobby, West Monday and Tuesday April 27-28

they themselves can wish. The most probable outcome is that the band will play in front of grandstand B and before the races will march in front of the grandstands on the track.

AN8} WBE 1eXC I, from their state tour) B.T. Crayton, in charge of the band, announces that the present plans are for the band to be carried to and from Charlotte in a large safety bus, but this has not been decided upon definitely. This is the fourth trip that the band has made this year, the others being with athletic organizations. The band has improved lately and should make an excellent showing at the races.

MCALPINE, LEADS MEETING OF VOLUNTEER BAND

At the regular weekly meeting of the Volunteer Band Sunday morning an interesting program was given. Jim McAlpine led the meeting, and after the usual business was gone through the floor was given to Mr. Williams, the local secretary of the “Y.” The subject was “Tolerance.” It was brought out that this subject is one of which every person interested in religion and its advancement in the countries of the world should have a knowledge. The question was faced: How to be tolerant with those with whom we come in contact. Mr. Williams stressed the point that especially should those who expected to go to the foreign field learn to be kindly and patient with the natives there. An excellent example is the fact that all persons, on birth, are tolerant, every child being tolerant until the surroundings change and mold its character. After a prayer by L. B. Gibbs the meeting was adjourned.

RALEIGH BUSINESS

We have only three remaining games to complete the remaining games. The team, which is coached by Doc DeArmon, apparently lacks a strong defense. The team of Lowell High is coached by Doc DeArmon, and apparently his team will again throw a scare into the Fresh team. The Fresh will play their return game at Davidson on May 2, and although it is practically certain that they will win, yet nothing definite is known of their strength since the D. C. Fresh have yet to play them.

Wake Forest beat Duke University Thursday 4 to 3 although Dempster allowed the Baptists only six hits and although he hit two singles and one triple. The Baptists won out by frequent bobbles on the part of the Duke crew. Hampton, another sophomore, got his first taste of varsity ball Thursday afternoon when he went in as a relief for Flake. Hampton also got a hit in his one time at bat. Last year it was the two Alford brothers who turned the tide of victory to Davidson against Carolina. With Frank out on account of mumps it looks as if the family will have to depend on Sion for honors Monday afternoon. He is just getting into the proper shape. Coach Younger had him playing center field with little Bobbie Glenn on short.

LIFE INSURANCE CO.

A. W. McALISTER PRESIDENT

H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.

COSTUMES “ON THE SQUARE” Wigs and Make-up for School and College Plays and Pageants

Special Rental Rates

VAN HORN & SON 921 Walnut St. PHILA., PENNA.