4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE..........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Assistant Managing Editor
Peanut Parcher Editor
Associate Editor
W. H. W. ..........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS......Alumni Editor
L. D. WHARTON....Athletic Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE........Advertising
J. A. THOMPSON....Circulation Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER...Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN......Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER.......Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON.....Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH.......Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
J. M. GARRISON
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
J. P. GLADNEY
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
W. M. APPLEBY
J. D. LAWS
I. M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
GARNETT McMILLAN
D. M. CALHOUN
J. E. MOORE
W. T. COVINGTON
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
C. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS

ELECTIONS

The time draws near when the present Junior class will have its representatives brought forth to fill the places which
will soon be vacated by the members of the class of ’25. Athletics, scholastic activities, and religious work all call
for competent leaders, who are filled with a zeal for service and with a determination to further the ideals and
progress of that particular activity. When the men are nominated and the votes cast, it is to be hoped that
each man will give his support to the one whom he honestly feels is the most competent in every respect
to hold the office. Personal feelings are to be discarded in favor of the interest of the college as a
whole; politics should not be allowed to enter into the election of a man whose office means much. The Freshmen,
who are not as familiar with the members of the Junior class as the others, should strive to support the
man who is worthy of the place and who can fill it better than anyone else. They should find out
about a man if they do not know him personally, and not depend upon mere hearsay as to whether a
man is capable or not.

C.F.S.

The Wildcat five chalked up four victories on their five-game trip through Virginia. It is the most successful trip a
Davidson basketball team has taken in recent years.

The Wildcats have been gaining momentum but the pace of nine games in twelve days may be too hard for
them. Whatever happens, Wake Forest is in for two fierce battles.

The last three games will determine whether the Wildcats will rank second or fourth in the race for State honors.

The Board of Trustees holds its annual meeting here this week. Many important decisions will be made at this time
as to the use for which the Duke bequest will be utilized. It will be a pleasant change to turn
from the problem of raising more money for the needs of the college and consider the uses to which available
funds can be applied. The meeting will be one of the most important in recent years.

The “flu” epidemic has hit the campus again and fifteen boys are in the infirmary. Apparently, the worst is over,
and in a few days the boys will once more be able to resume college duties.

By winning over Carolina Saturday night, the wrestling team put themselves in the front rank in State circles. Both Carolina
and State have fallen before the Red and Black mat men.

Gloves and bats are much in demand these days, and within another week the diamond candidates will be taking their
first drills and workouts. Then, of course, rain will follow and proceedings will be slowed up for a couple of
weeks. It’s all in the game.

The first monthly reviews may be one cause for the “flu” cases at the infirmary. It is hard to face
them once more.

LOOKING AHEAD

The four years that a man spends in college look long to him before he actually embarks upon the journey
of higher education, and at times during his college career, the goal seems dim in the distance. But any old
graduate who has traversed the road knows that it is only a lull between youth and manhood, and the while
spent within the cloistered retreats of learning seems short indeed. The average college man looks upon his time in college
as an end within itself and not as a means towards effecting an end. Diversions are multitudinous, and studies seem
unimportant when ranked alongside other activities. Four years appear to the one entering college, as enough time to successfully learn
everything worth knowing; the sad discovery is often made after graduation that only a shallow and superficial knowledge is gained
from careless study and application.

Probably students fall down most in picking out a definite mark at which to aim. And especially is this true
in regard to summer vacations. To many, these months of summer come as a period of utter relaxation and rest
from all mental and physical effort. Perhaps it is fortunate that the majority feel the urge to engage themselves in
some useful occupation that will at one time prove a source of pleasure and profit. The three summers that a
man spends during his college course often determine his future calling, or may change his outlook upon life. To use
these summer months wisely and well is as important as tending to the duties of the classroom during the winter
months. Very few of us escape the urge to busy ourselves in some task even though it be of little
consequence. Those who desire to sloth are not concerned so much with what they get out of college studies, as
the good time they manage to have. With summer only a few short months away, the problem of deciding what
to do in this time comes up again. The question of remuneration often overshadows that of good to be derived
from the position. It is hard to choose between a job that offers high pay but with little incentive in
it for original thought, and a job that has little to offer in the way of pay, but with needed
experience to be gained. But it is in this last that we can help ourselves the most. A summer of
practical work in the field of study in which one has secured theoretical information, is of untold value. The would-be
preacher can secure more real experience that will serve him in good stead later on, from a summer’s work as
a preacher, pastor’s assistant, missionary worker or the like, than he can get from a year’s study at a seminary.
For the young man who is contemplating journalism as a life’s work, a dependable position on a live newspaper furnishes
a laboratory in which he can test out those rules and ideas which he has gotten from a study of
books.

And so it is with every profession. And those who have not decided upon a vocation in life, the vacation
time comes as a period of thought in which matters may be weighed, and problems studied. Different jobs can be
tried until one gives a foretaste of something that is to the liking of that individual. A small job picked
up may lead to a development in that line until it is decided upon for a life’s work. The time
is not far off when another set of examinations will be over and a summer vacation ahead. It will be
up to us whether we shall return here next fall with a realization of something worthy accomplished and problems faced,
or of three months of jaded pleasure and wasted time.

C.F.S.

With the College Editors

Chaff

THE HONOR SYSTEM

One thing that impressed me in the recent discussion of the Honor System was that no one doubted its merits,
nor Oglethorpe’s need of it, but based theirOpposition entirely upon the belief that it would not succeed here. They are
right and wrong. It will not succeed so long as it isn’t given a trial; whereas, on the other hand,
should it be tried there is at least the possibility that it would work acceptably, and the certainty that it
would aid to some extent in eliminating the abhorrent evil against which it would be striving. Also, there is no
single student in school who is so unprincipled as not to deplore the state of affairs as they now exist.
Even those who speak most bitterly against the proposed system were equally earnest in their denunciation of the practice which
has caused its need. They spoke, as they said, and believed, as much in the interest of their school as
those who championed the cause of the system, but there is one point in connection with their stand that I
do not believe they have considered. In talking against the Honor System they can by no manner of twisted reasoning
convince even themselves that they are helping to eliminate the evil, whereas, if the Honor System should be installed even
if it worked with grave imperfection, it would at least be a contending force—something actively and continuously fighting against it.
Whether it passes or not, there is sure to be a large number of students voting against it. In doing
so, they will be voting dutifully or selfishly, they will be actuated either by a clear, unbiased conception of what
is best for the college and students or by the selfish, unmanly desire to avoid the responsibility of duty, or
by the still less admirable fear of feeling its teeth. For those with wisdom, courage, and honor enough to vote
for what is right, rather than easy and pleasant, I have a profound admiration. And such is my confidence in
the natural good character of Oglethorpe’s students, that I believe that if they do give expression to their better impulse
the movement will succeed—E. M. in The Petrel.

STUDY

Despite the fact that most people go to college ostensibly for the purpose of laying the foundation for an education,
they yet decry that motive in the repugnance with which they view its essence—study. This is, indeed, most natural, for
few things can equal the dullness of study untouched by other features. But just there lies the fundamental error from
which few emerge during their college days or even later. Everything connected with a college course—whether it be language, mathematics,
history, literature, science, law, or what not—is automatically study, pure study, pure study with no tinge of natural interest, and
is immediately relegated to the category compulsory and therefore undesirable. As long as this traditional attitude, almost universal, grips the
student, his college course is defeated. In the first place, a utilitarian motive, scarcely connected with a diploma, should serve
to tear the delusion from one’s eyes. Even from a practical viewpoint, knowledge within reasonable limits seldom goes long uncalled
for. A lawyer whose son now attends the University emphatically declares that one of his profession must know something from
every branch of knowledge. Scarcely a case comes to him but necessitates information upon a different matter. The lawyer is
but exemplary. The doctor, the engineer, and others are equally concerned. But it is not necessary to go so far
as the future for an animation to know and—what is infinitely more vital—to enjoy! One is a human being always,
moving passively and actively through life, as much while one is in college as before and after; and with what
is knowledge concerned if not with life! Literature is but a written account of life. That part called History deals
specifically with those who have actually lived and with what they did. Poetry, fiction, dramas for the most part give
their personages no names of actual existence nor their settings authenticity of actual occurrence, but that is far from signifying
that they cannot be attached to human life throughout all the ages. One cannot tell when he opens a book
but that he may find himself mirrored there. Of actual interest is science, for it deals with the physical elements
that compose and make life possible, and the law of cause and effect. To the imaginative, it offers a fertile
field, for science must arrive at its truths or convictions through a beginning of imagination, often with a fallacy. Metaphysics,
the higher science, which goes beyond and muses upon what science takes for granted in building its laws, offers a
method of training to develop an acute and logical mind. The fact that it can never arrive at a certain
ultimate by no means detracts from its value here. The obvious secret of all is that each part contributes to
the art of living. Whatever else we do not know, we may at least take for granted that we are
living, and it behooves us to make that life as joyfully full as is consistent with its healthy subsistence. The
courses that the student labels as study and treats as such often contain much that would delight him if only
he approached them in an attitude of natural curiosity.

—The Crimson-White (University of Alabama).

Yes, John, I’ve made my semi-annual trips for 26 years straight now and the dear old alma mater hasn’t changed
a bit—P. F. J.

LAY OF A HEAVY MAN

Up from his bathrobed lair sprang he,
Remaining flower of chivalry.
“By my tobacco quid,” quoth he,
“This doggone match depends on me.”
“Sir Harry, hold these Chesterfields,
Lest they should bend when yon man yields
To my great skill on this fair field.”
And forthwith to the contest wheeled.
Glaring hard at the referee
He sez: “Don't try to two-time me,
For Sammy Summers here you see,
Toughest man in old Georgee.”
The midman jumps from off the field,
And, lo, the battling warriors wield
Their awful mitts to break the shield;
But neither makes the other yield.
Then fair Sammy grabs his man,
As does a fish the pelican.
Gobbles him up within his hands,
And cries: “The battle has began.”
The hero’s mighty grip now shuts
All the wind from the matman’s guts.
And as the other edgeward cuts,
Back with his prey our Sammy struts.
Egads, what a bloody scrap ensues!
The cheerers quake in their very shoes.
Up, up! To flee from Sammy’s abuse,
But poor crushed victim can't get loose.
For seconds—yea, and minutes too,
The mat is dusted by these two.
Sam tries half Nelson’s for to do,
But, or—we leave the rest to you.
Puffing and huffing, our worthy pair,
Get to gasping now for air.
And a weeping Freshman on his chair,
Almost wants to really swear,
But hark ye all—my tale is spun;
Of course our doughty hero won,
Where is the man—please bring us one—
That can our wrestlin’ Sammy stun?

OUR WEEKLY LINE

Which reminds us—“In the spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love.” We just wished to remind
you, dear youths. Don't, we beseech you, let a perfectly good old-fashioned custom go to waste and obliviate itself in
the desert air. Hang the moderns—hurrah for the old timers! So say we. Let’s go! The staff of the mail
dispensary has only a limited supply of stamps on hand. Get yours now. Don’t wait! It's to your own interest
to write immediately. And remember: “A line a day keeps Mary gay.” Then too: “If spring is come, is summer
far behind?” Certainly not. So, old top—“Keep the home fire yearning” till her boy comes home.

Oh Alfred! I’ve seen the funniest thing this afternoon. Yes. No. You can’t guess in a million years. It was
so funny and I was so shocked. I was at Davidson College and the whole big football team came in
smoking cigarettes. And, oh, who would have thought it! I’m so mortified! John William Crinkley, poor boy, staggered across the
old campus smoking a nasty vile cigarette. Moral: You never can tell. Presbyterian and progress both begin with “P.” But
uncle we'll just have to confess they seem to disagree. (At Davidson.)

The Seniors have only a little longer on the hill. Commencement, which four years ago was the goal of our
college life, looms on the horizon. As we look back over the four years which we have spent here together
we realize what a great thing college is and how much it means to us. The associations, the work, the
play, all intermingled into four years of wonderful pleasure and richness. There may be many things which we will regret—God
pity the man who has no regrets—but despite our mistakes and faults, our years together, we feel helpless, it is
true, but ready to go out into the world, made better and stronger by our four years at Davidson. And
on through life the friendships made in college will continue to be the brightest spots in life—a life which we
believe has great things in store for us.
