6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

Dr. Hood Lectures in Two Southern Cities
Prominent Professor of Psychology Will be Heard in Louisville Also

Dr. Frazer Hood, Professor of Psychology in the Davidson faculty, is now in Nashville, Tenn., delivering a series of lectures
similar to the group which he presented at various colleges during the past fall. Hood's prominence in the field of
applied psychology has caused him to be sought after to fill numerous engagements on the platform. The past week Dr.
Hood was received with such enthusiasm at Richmond Seminary that the unusual honor of featuring the lecture in full in
the next issue of the college magazine has been accorded him. The unusual material contained and the force with which
Dr. Hood presented this talk on certain newly-viewed aspects of psychology is deserving of this note.

During the first week in March, Dr. Hood goes to Louisville, Ky., to lecture before the students of the Seminary
on the general subject of The Psychology of Preaching. The first topic in the series is to be that of
Gaining Attention. The second day in natural succession will come Holding Attention; then the third, the clinching of the matter
in Fixing the Impression. The conclusion of the group will be the often neglected but all-important Instigating Response. The value
of the application of modern psychology to speaking from the pulpit is being emphasized in the training of students preparing
for the ministry, and thus are of great practical value. Dr. Hood's talks stress application.

STARTING TONIGHT

Playing V. P. I. at Blacksburg tonight, the Wildcat quint opens a four-game series with the strongest fives in Virginia.
With W. & L., Hampden-Sidney, and Roanoke facing them after V. P. I., the Wildcats encounter the toughest opposition of
the season. All of these teams have good records behind them. The team left yesterday on this tour, playing Guilford
at their home court last night. From there they hopped to Blacksburg for the game tonight. At W. & L.
the team will spend several days, going from there to Hampden-Sidney and Roanoke. The following is the schedule for the
trip:

Feb. 19—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
Feb. 21—W. & L. at Lexington.
Feb. 23—Hampden-Sidney at Farmville.
Feb. 24—Roanoke at Roanoke.

Davidson can win second honors thus: Beat Wake Forest twice, while State wins from Carolina and Duke, split those two
games or loses both. (2) Split with Wake Forest while Baptists lose to both Carolina and Duke, or even split
with Carolina and Duke—if at the same time State is losing or splitting with Carolina and Duke.

Kittens Smother the Charlotte Y
Seniors Win 40-24 in the Last Game Before The Big Trip Through Carolina

In a tame affair here Thursday night, Coach Rawson's fighting fresh quint triumphed over the strong Senior team from the
Charlotte “Y.” The final count was 40-24 in favor of the locals. Two complete teams and several individual players were
substituted by the local mentor in the process of the game. The crashing Kitten quintette showed marked improvement over their
previous court encounters and bid fair to make a good showing against Oak Ridge, Duke, Wake Forest, and State on
the trip they are now taking up that way. They had the “Y” boys outclassed in practically every department of
the game. Wilson’s defensive play and the aggressive offense of Milner and Harrison were outstanding for Davidson, while Lomax and
Mallory were the two outstanding players for the Queen City “Y” lads. Lex Marsh played a very consistent game at
center for the visitors. The lineup follows:

R. G. Wilson
L. G. Wilson
C. Wilson
R. G. Wilson
L. G. Wilson

Substitutes: Milner, Mauldin, Upton, Harrison.

The Coupe $520
Runabout - - $260
Touring Car - 290
Tudor Sedan - 580
Fordor Sedan - 660

On open cars demountable rims and starter are $85 extra. All prices f. o. b. Detroit.

Confidence in Ford Performance

The owner of a Ford is never in doubt as to what he can expect in service. He knows what
his car will do and how sturdily it will do it. When bad weather and roads put other cars out
of commission, the Ford car will stay on the job. It will carry through slush and snow, over frozen ruts,
newly constructed roads—anywhere. Yet Ford benefits can be yours for the lowest prices ever offered. This is made possible by
the efficiency of Ford manufacture, the volume of output and practically limitless resources.

Ford Motor Co. DETROIT

SEE THE NEAREST AUTHORIZED FORD DEALER
VISITORS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME AT ALL FORD PLANTS

GOOD TRACK GOES FOR 1925

Meeting four first-class track squads besides entering the North Carolina Olympic tells in a nutshell the amount of work that
faces the Davidson track men for the 1925 season. CoachTilson and Manager Patton have completed a good schedule, meeting two
Southern Conference teams in V. P. I. and South Carolina, while Wofford and Clemson, with a possibility of Duke University,
are also on the Wildcat card. The completed schedule follows:

March 28—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Virginia.
April 4—Wofford at Davidson.
April 11—South Carolina at Columbia.
April 16—Duke at Durham (pending).
April 25—Clemson at Davidson.
May 3—State Olympic at Chapel Hill.

Queens College Begins Its Endowment Campaign

Manager of Davidson Campaign Heads Three Hundred Thousand Drive

In the early part of April, an extensive canvass is to be made by the authorities and friends of Queens
College to create an endowment fund for the school. The sum of $300,000 must be added to the resources of
the college before it may be recognized by the Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the South. The only
requirement of the Association, which Queens has not yet been able to meet, is in regard to finances. The school
has eight departments in the literary course; there are 7,000 volumes in the library; and the entrance requirements are the
same as those of the leading colleges.

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, who has so successfully directed campaigns for other schools, including those of Agnes Scott and Davidson, will
manage this drive. Mr. Lockhart has already completed the committee organization and has decided that the $300,000 shall be divided
and secured as follows: $25,000 from the alumnae; $50,000 from the women’s organizations; $75,000 from the citizens of Charlotte; $50,000
from the large gifts committee; and $100,000 from the territory outside of Charlotte.

The campaign officers are: Rev. Dr. A. A. McGeachy, chairman of the board of trustees; Dr. W. H. Frazer, president
of the college; Malcolm Lockhart, director; E. E. Jones, treasurer; J. A. McRae, chairman of the Charlotte campaign; Thomas M.
Glasgow, chairman of the large gifts committee; Mrs. C. C. Hook, chairman of women’s division; Mrs. J. D. Shaw, chairman
of alumnae division; Miss Annie Parks, chairman of student division.

STUDENTS TEACH AT FOUR NEARBY SUNDAY SCHOOLS

There were four Sunday School deputations sent out from the Hill last Sunday. On account of the bad weather, the
attendance was not very good at any of the services. Wade Allison and Pritchett went to Cornelius. J. E. Moore
and W. A. Christian had charge of the Sunday School at Hobson Chapel. The church service at the latter place
was conducted by Mr. Baker. Yeargan, Rice, and Phillips went to Mill Chapel, and Gibbs, Crinkley, Forbes, Sims, and Patterson
went to Shearer Chapel. Sims spoke at the Shearer church service, choosing as the subject of his address, Friendship. John
Yonan spoke at the Convict Camp. Those that accompanied him were J. M. Garrison, Doc. Brown, C. W. Williams, R.
D. Kauffett, and B. K. Couper.

Ministerial Band Holds Feed and Regular Meet

Carr Resigns Presidency at Meeting — Professor Fleagle Speaks at Feed

The Ministerial Band held its regular meeting last Sunday evening in Shearer Hall. The business of the band was taken
up. Jim Carr, president of the band, offered his resignation as president on account of having accepted work that will
call him off the hill every Sunday. The election of a new president was postponed until the next meeting. After
the business had been disposed of, the meeting was turned over to Alford Moffett who led the band in a
student meeting. After the song service, Jack Hand, Murchison, and Stewart led in prayer while Hodgkin played Just As I
Am on the piano. Moffett then read the third chapter of Philippians for the scripture lesson, after which he discussed
briefly the problems the ministerial candidates face every day. The meeting was then thrown open for discussion. Lyerly, McRae, Kauffelt,
J. M. Garrison, Jim Carr, and Paul Freeland discussed the various phases of college life and campus activities that affect
the ministerial candidate’s life. Jim Carr summarized the discussion in the one word “compromise.” “Put aside the compromises and get
close to Jesus.” The band was dismissed by repetition of the Lord’s prayer in unison.

At an adjourned meeting last Saturday night in the basement of the church, 36 ministerial students gathered for a feed
and social hour at which Prof. F. K. Fleagle, guest of the evening, spoke in regard to the relations of
the ministerial student to his fellow students and to various student activities.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
