THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925.

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

HEAD COLDS
Melt Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Use freely before going to bed.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

She said, smoothing the freshie’s brow:
RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy feeling after hearty eating. Sweetens the breath, removes food particles from the teeth, gives new vigor to tired nerves. Comes to you fresh, clean and full-flavored.
SEALED TIGHT KEPT RIGHT

FREE 5 TUBE RADIO SET FREE
Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for full particulars regarding this OFFER.
RADIOTEX CO. 296 Broadway New York, N. Y.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

U-Push’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station

ON THE HOME STRETCH
As they sat alone in the moonlight,
“Dearest, I know my life’s been fast, But I’m on my last lap now.”

fresh halfback: “Hi whether the quarter signalled for a pass or an end run, so I'll just punt.”

Scrub forgot FINE! FINE!
fresh sloan—“If I stole a kiss would it be petty larceny?”
She—“No, I think it would be grand?”

Sweet Young Thing—“So you loved and lost?”
fresh covington—“Well, not exactly; you see when she sent me back the presents I had sent her she accidentally put in some that I did not send her.”

IN ONE ROUND
fresh baird—“How do you like my new suit?”
fresh cassasy—“It’s a knockout.”

Judge—“Did you or did you not strike the policeman?”
Fresh Brownell—“The answer is in the infirmary.”

YELLOW CAP, SHINGLE, OR A SHOTGUN?
fresh cannon—“Going to the Post Office?”
Red McComb—“Yeah.”
“Mail a letter for me?”
“Sure.”
“Wait'll I finish it?”
“All right.”
“Gotta stamp?”
“Yeah.”
“Put it on for me?”
“Uh-huh.”
“Say, what's your girl’s address?”

EXIT ONE FRESH
fresh ratchford—“Sweetie, will you dance with me?”
Her—“Sir, I’ll have you to know that I am the dean of women!”

Prof.—“Mr. Ritchie, use the word feature in a sentence.”
fresh ritchie—“My what big feature my brother has.”

“None but the brave deserve the fair—none but the brave can live with some of them.” Fresh McGeachey says,

BUT HE DIDN’T
fresh megill—“I promised myself I'd kiss you before I left tonight.”
Fair One—“Go home this instant!”

HE HOSSED TOO MANY SOPHOMORES
A “Native son” was freshie bowers,
He hurried through the passing hours;
Now he can’t smell the pretty flowers,
He hossed too many Sophomores.

A “Village cutup,” freshman brown,
By too fast, they say, for a college town;
He's sleeping now, so long and sound,
He hossed too many Sophomores.

A snappy young fellow, fresh mcqueen,
The classiest thing the town has seen;
His face looks toward the grass so green,
He hossed too many Sophomores.

Then at last was fresh caldwell,
He did not care what he did tell;
He's gone from here, he went well,
He hossed too many Sophomores.

AT THE SAME TIME
fresh king—“Is it true that brunettes have more pep than blondes and titians?”
fresh mcintyre—“I don’t know; ask fresh kerr, his girl has been all three.”

Taxi Driver—“Say, how long do you expect me to drive you around like this? You owe me $18.50 now.”
Tipsy freshie—“Here’s fifty cents. Thash all I got.”

Pity the poor fresh. He never knows where his next kissis coming from, “If girls were properly looked after at home they wouldn't be after on the street;” declared the spinster. “Do you ever try to be a witty reformer?” asked the freshman. “If it was done unintentionally,” replied the non-reformer, “it was done unintentionally.”

Y.M.C.A. Announces Two Fine Talks for Vespers

Dr. Gribbin of Winston-Salem and Dr. Sommerfield of Charlotte Will Speak

The list of vesper service speakers will continue its attractive announcement with an address by Rev. R. E. Gribbin at the next service on October 25. Dr. Gribbin is well known all over the South as the pastor of Saint Paul's Church at Winston-Salem. It is a real privilege for the students to be able to hear him. Dr. Gribbin’s talk will be followed in the near future by addresses by two other noted men. Dr. C. W. Sommerfield, former pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church at Memphis, Tenn., will speak on November 19. Dr. Sommerfield at present occupies a professor's chair at Queens College, in Charlotte. The following service on November 26 will be conducted by Dr. Joseph R. Sevier, president of Fassifern School, at Hendersonville. He was formerly pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Augusta, Ga.

HOME-COMING DAY
(Continued from page 1)

The program and they, together with men from the different classes, are to put on Stunt Night, Saturday evening. The combined talent of these organizations and others in school, including several gifted men from the freshman class, will undoubtedly present a rollicking program brimming full of humor and wit. Practically all the fraternities are planning to give a reception in honor of their alumni. Most of the chapters are to have house-parties at the same time so there will be plenty of “life on the hill for the week-end.” It is impossible to give a more detailed account of the program, as several major forms of entertainment have not been definitely formulated. Further announcements about Home-Coming Day will be given out in next week's “Davidsonian.”

Do you ever read “Time?” If you are a busy student who craves to keep in close contact with world activities in its various political, social, literary, sporting, and even musical phases, you will find “Time” a weekly periodical, a most attractive medium. It abandons the sterile form of the “Literary Digest” and adds a spicy flavor of originality and literary art. Try it.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see
FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for
Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

WHOSE IMMACULATE SERVICE APPEALS MOST
AT THE SELECTED STORE
NATURALLY, TO DISCRIMINATING PEOPLE
For those who Love Fine Things
VIRGIL HOLLINGSWORTH, AUGUSTA, GA.
FOR SALE BY
WHITE DRUG COMPANY