FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 26, 1925 No. 23

NICK SAPPENF

Fred Smith is Elected Editor-in-Chief of the Davidsonian by Students

Milton and Monk Two Opponents in Race for Editorship

IS WELL QUALIFIED

Smith Has Had Experience in Journalistic Work—Author of Several One-Act Plays

C. F. Smith, the present managing editor of The Davidsonian, was elected editor for next year on the first ballot in the election held Friday morning. W. E. Milton and C. F. Monk, both assistant managing editors, were the other contestants in the editorial race.

The election returns were announced by the present head of the paper, C. M. S. Mcllwaine, between parts of the Rudyard Kipling Recital given Friday night, by Prof. Carl Wachter, for the benefit of The Davidsonian. All three men have been working steadily on the paper since they entered college and have risen steadily in the ranks until they were chosen, from all the men in their class, as the most competent for heading the Livest Wire on the Hill. Any one of them would have well filled the position for which they were running. The new staff will be appointed within the next week by the editor-elect on the recommendations of the old staff.

Three years ago C. F. Smith came to Davidson from Trenton, Tenn., and immediately began to work on The Davidsonian. For about two months in his Freshman year, he helped the press bureau and was then promoted to doing regular reportorial work. Before the end of the spring term, as a (Continued on page 3)

Davidson Freshmen Win Invitation Track Meet

Charlotte High, Runners-up—Lead Big Field of Entries by Substantial Margin

The Davidson Freshmen won the high school track carnival on Richardson field Saturday afternoon by a narrow margin of three points, Charlotte High running a close second. The results are: Davidson 43, Charlotte 40, Winston-Salem 17, Salisbury 13, Statesville 13, Greensboro 10, and Oxford 7. Incidentally the silver loving cup goes to Charlotte as it was offered to the high school making the largest number of points. The outcome was undecided until the final event, the relay, and it was in this that Currie, of Davidson, again came out in the final lap, winning the meet by the close score. Currie was by far the most outstanding runner of the day, winning the 100 and 220-yard dashes, and in the final lap of the relay he made a beautiful spurt and crossed the line with a good lead. His time in the 100-yard dash was 10 1-5 seconds. Fisher, of Salisbury, was also in the limelight with his distance running, winning the 880-yard and the mile runs. He also shortened Davidson's lead when he took the stick on the final lap of the mile relay. The pole vault attracted much attention as Duncan, of Statesville, and McGeachy, of Davidson, battled for first place, but the men were too evenly matched, and the result was a tie. Charlotte showed best of the high schools in almost every event, showing that they had some good track men. Nesbitt and McMillan, former Charlotte boys, showed up well in the meet. (Continued on page 7)

Tennis Tournament to Select Members of Team

Plans for Successful Season Become a Reality as Team Rounds Into Form

The annual spring tennis tournament is now well under way with nearly half of the matches played, and the rest to be played off as soon as possible. Davidson, this year, has been particularly fortunate in her athletics, having won well over three-fourths of all her varsity games in every sport, and, at present, we see no reason why the baseball and track teams should not uphold this enviable record. And in tennis? Could it be possible that with a team composed of such stars as Price, Beall, Trotter and Staley, that this record be broken? We say, “with such a team composed of Price, Beall, Trotter and Staley.” At present it seems that said team will have to play some wonderfully good tennis if they expect to eliminate such hands at the game as Mac Lockhart, Crosland, Jimmy Wharton, Dick Carr and others.

The Freshman class has furnished a valuable list of athletes to Davidson this year, and to tennis goes the honor of having drawn several of the best players in the State. It is true that all four of the regular team will receive their sheepskins this year, and thus leave a gap in our '26 varsity team, but we are assured of having an excellent team next year, that will, in no wise, let State honors out of Davidson’s hands.

The tennis team has an excellent schedule this spring, they leave the 27th of April on their northern trip, when such representative teams as Maryland, Annapolis, Virginia and others will be played. Arrangements are being made for a meet here with Duke University the Monday following their return from the northern trip.

The State tournament will be held at Chapel Hill this spring, the second week in May, and, unless something unexpected turns up, the Davidson team will uphold their previous records for fast and winning matches.

Seven members of the basketball team were awarded letters at a recent meeting of the Athletic Council. The members of the squad receiving the coveted “D” for their fine work on the cage team during the past season, include:

“Sook” Boggs, captain.
Flake Laird, captain-elect.
Tom Anderson.
“Spee” MacConnell.
Tom Staley.
Mace Beall.
Andy Hewlett.
Bub Oeland, manager.

Over Twenty Men On Honor Roll As Result of Labor

A checking of the grades for the first semester of this year discloses the fact that both the number of those making the honor roll and the general average of the student body show a decided increase over the corresponding figures for the 1923-24 term. Twenty-three students made the honor roll. The average of the entire student body was 83.69 per cent. This shows an advantage of 1.43 points over the same average for last year’s fall term. The highest student body average ever made was in 1884-85, an apex of 84.88 was reached at that time. As usual the figures show the Senior class taking the lead with the under classes following in their respective order.

With 10 on the honor roll and several others missing it by just a fraction of a point, the class of '25 sets a precedent in its class average. The nearest approach to its mark was made by last year’s class with its average of 87.82. Here are the class averages for the first semester of the 1924-25 session:

Seniors Class: 90.68
Junior Class: 86.40
Sophomore Class: 80.04
Freshman Class: 77.64

While these class averages, with the exception of that for the Senior class, break no records, they are in every instance better than last year’s. Of the 23 men on the honor roll one was an M.A., 10 were Seniors, nine Juniors, one Sophomore, and three Freshmen. (Continued on page 5)

Phi Beta Kappa Elected

FIELD ELECTED PRESIDENT OF STUDENT BODY

Highest Student Honor Goes to Football Star In a Thrilling Election

Four Prominent Seniors; Furches, Price, Wharton and Ramsey Are Honored by Election to Highest Fraternity

At a recent meeting of the Davidson chapter of the Phi Beta Kappa, four new members were elected from the Senior class. This makes a total of seven members from theSenior class, three having been initiated last fall. Phi Beta Kappa is the highest scholastic honorary fraternity in the country, and those elected to membership are given the honor as a recognition of their faithful endeavor in scholastic lines. Those elected into membership were D. B. Wharton, H. B. Price, W. C. Ramsey, and C. S. Furches. Those elected earlier in the year were M. W. Trawick, W. W. Puedy, and A. T. Rowe, Jr. All of these men have a high scholastic standing as well as a record in connection with college activities. D. B. Wharton is the outstanding debater of the Senior class, having served on the regular intercollegiate debates for two successive years. As president of the Forensic Council, he has accomplished much in the way of developing literary work at Davidson. He is also a member of the Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity. H. B. Price comes from a family of students. Several of his brothers have attended Davidson, and all of them have made a high record. Harry is president of the Y. M. C. A., a member of the Philosophy club, and engaged in numerous college activities. In addition to this, he has made a letter in tennis, being one of the best tennis players in the state. W. C. Ramsey is a captain in the R. O. T. C. and is head of the Court of Control. He has applied himself with diligence to every endeavor and has proved himself a capable leader. C. S. Furches has shown his ability in classroom work, and by faithfulness to duty has made an enviable record. He was editor of the “Y” handbook for 1924. By conscientious work, he made himself eligible for the honor conferred on him. Phi Beta Kappa is distinctly a scholastic fraternity, yet it encourages activity in various departments of college life. All the men elected are recognized as leaders in class work as well as in the various phases of college activity. Ten upper-classmen at the University of Mississippi were recently expelled for participation in a hair-cutting party at which Freshmen were the victims.

YOUTHFUL JOLLITY

Eighty-five Sophomores journeyed down to the Queen City Thursday night and made a big celebration of their halfway mark in the college course. The banquet was at the Chamber of Commerce. The hall was beautifully and artistically decorated in the class colors, gold and white, and with class pennants and banners. An excellent four-course dinner had been prepared by the experienced chefs of the Chamber of Commerce; and it was generally agreed that ‘they knew their stuff.” Harllee Branch, toastmaster, called on Professor Foreman for the invocation, and then the boys were busy for a few moments with the first course. The program was full of good talks, toasts, impromptu speeches, and mixed in all were some good jokes. Professor Brown spoke on “Logarithms and Some Sophomore Attitudes;” Professor Foreman, the faculty advisor of the class, gave a very inspiring talk on “The Land of the Future.” R. S. Wilson made a splendid speech that was both humorous and serious; and Don Stewart gave an interesting talk on “The Sand Glass of Time.” Other guests to speak to the class were Dr. C. R. Harding, Capt. Julian H. George, J. P. Hendrix, president of the student body, W. L. Younger and S. D. Tilson, Davidson coaches, and the presidents of the three other classes, Julian Briggs, Senior; Buck Shaw, Junior; and J. S. Foster, Freshman. Music was furnished by members of the class. The class quartet gave two numbers that were greatly enjoyed. Those composing the quartet are Bill Green, Clancy Williams, Bill Christian, and D. M. Calhoun. William Rice and Hodgkin performed on the ivory keys, the former furnishing the classical, and the latter the jazz. The Harmonica Club rendered two or three numbers. Toasts were made “To Davidson,” by J. W. Keerans; “Twenty-Seven,” by J. P. Pinkney; “Faculty,” by R. L. Mitchell, and “Sweethearts,” by C. L. Norwood; all were very good, but the last was particularly enjoyed. After the speeches and food were disposed of, the class went ensemble to the New Broadway Theatre for the vaudeville. After some delay, on account of the crowd, and much merry-making, the class was admitted to the show, which had an entertaining program. Tired and happy Sophomores pulled into the old college at all hours of the morning. The campus had an entirely different view from that of last year, very few rooms being disturbed in their absence. And so ended the most successful Sophomore banquet ever held.

Four Men Nominated for Presidency of Student Body

SAPPENFIELD POPULAR

Pinkney and Covington Chosen Vice-Presidents—Melton Secretary and Treasurer

In a run-over election, held last Thursday morning, N. E. Sappenfield secured a majority of the votes cast, and was duly declared elected to the presidency of the student body for the years 1925-26. James F. Pinkney and W. W. Covington, members of the rising Junior class, were victorious in the race for the vice-presidency. The student body elections started on Tuesday morning, March 16, with four men on the ballot for the presidency. These men, nominated by the Student Council, were: N. E. Sappenfield, T. S. Baker, I. E. Regen, and H. S. Shaw. The first ballot failed to produce a winning candidate, but the list was narrowed down to the two leaders, Sappenfield and Baker. Sappenfield led the field on the first ballot with 194 votes, and Baker followed close behind with 152. A run-over was necessary, and it was in this race that Sappenfield forged to the front with a total of 266 votes, while Baker only increased his original number to 188. The race for the vice-presidency was equally exciting. Four men, J. F. Pinkney, W. T. Covington, W. A. Christian, and J. W. Keerans, were nominated by the Council; but the first ballot resulted in no majority for either of the candidates. The run-over, in which Pinkney and Covington (Continued on page 7)

Prof. Wachter Pleases Large Crowd in Concert

Masterful Interpretation of Kipling Given—Mrs. Baker and Mr. Neal Assist

Prof. Carl Wachter, assisted by Mr. Will Neal and Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker, of Charlotte, presented in Shearer Hall, Friday evening, March 20, a most successful recital of the works of Rudyard Kipling. The program was of two parts, each consisting of six poems of Kipling, some of which had been set to music. Professor Wachter, since coming to Davidson, has identified himself closely with every movement and activity of the student body, and his most evident showing of this association came in this recital, the proceeds of which are to go to The Davidsonian. He is connected with the Public Speaking department and in that capacity has assisted many boys in the preparation of debates and orations. He has gained for himself, both at Davidson and away, little credit as a speaker, reader, and poet. His popularity and force with the students needed no further proof than the enthusiasm with which he was received when first he came upon the stage. Mr. Neal and Mrs. Baker needed no introduction to Davidson students. Both have appeared in the past on the platform of Shearer Hall as members of the Carolina Concert Club. Mr. Neal has a remarkably fine baritone voice and his rendering of Fuzzy Wuzzy, Mandalay, and The Recessional as solos won for him the appreciation of every student in his audience. Besides these songs, he sang others as encores and in response to the requests of some of his hearers. (Continued on page 7)