THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

NOT MANY VETERAN TOSSERS BUT AN ALL-STATE COACH

Lives of football men remind us
That we too can pull and tug,
And departing, leave behind us
Footprints on another's mug.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Tate-Brown Co.
Young Men’s Tuxedo Suits, $40
Correct! For young men who do not want to spend more; for men who do not “wear one” often. Fine unfinished worsted, satin faced lapels; lined silk half, silk piped seams. Other Tuxedo suits $45 to $65. Dress vests, dress shirts, jewelry and pumps.

ARROWOOD, END, DAVIDSON

Forty Freshmen Report for Basketball Drills
Wake Forest Freshmen Will Be First Foes of Wildkitten Basketball Squad

Freshman basketball practice started during the past week and is now well under way. Nearly 40 men reported for practice the first day. Since this number was too large to be handled with ease, Coach Mattox has divided the squad. In this way every man will be able to show what he can do. To date a number of the new boys are showing up well with the ball. The squad will be cut just before Christmas in order that the best players can be more thoroughly coached. One of the nearby high schools will be met next week in a practice game. Mooresville will probably be played on the 16th of this month and the team will play Charlotte here either just before or a short time after the Christmas holidays. These games will be of great help in rounding the team into shape for the regular schedule.

The first game on the regular schedule will be played on February 1st, when Wake Forest comes here to encounter the Wildkittens. Duke will be played here a few days later. The state trip will include five games. Oak Ridge, N. C. State, Wake Forest, Duke, and Carolina will be played. Most of these teams will come here for games during the latter part of February. This is a comparatively stiff schedule and will show exactly how Davidson stacks up with other state teams. The schedule, as announced by Manager Christenbury, is as follows:

February 1—Wake Forest at Davidson.
February 4—Duke at Davidson.
February 10—Oak Ridge at Oak Ridge.
February 11—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
February 12—State at Raleigh.
February 13—Duke at Durham.
February 15—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
February 18—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
February 19—N. C. State at Davidson.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

One of the sport writers in the state selected Coach Monk, Younger and Bob Fetzer to coach the all-state team that was picked. That sounded good to us, and we are glad that this recognition is made of the genius of Monk Younger. A revised pick by one of the state papers is not in accordance with our idea of an all-state team, but they do have a paragraph at the end which is a tribute to the all-round ability of Monk Younger. We quote as follows:

Which brings to mind Mr. Grange’s recent transaction of $300,000. Wonder who is blaming him now for entering professional football? It seems as if he is using it only to amass a fortune. At the rate of $82,000 in eleven days of professional football it would seem to us that Mr. Grange is about ready to retire from the game. Suppose he should break his leg or arm in one of the games. That would be more than mere tough luck, in our estimation.

“Lives of gridders all remind us
We can print our name in blood
And departing leave behind us
Half our faces in the mud.”

We suggest that the second line be changed to “We can print our name in money.” That thought is generated by Mr. Grange’s phenomenal advancement from an ice carrier to a small fortune possessor.

There won’t be much excitement in the way of athletics between now and Christmas. There are several batches of fellows out for one sport or another, but the outside contests are nil. It means that they all will be ready for the battles when we return here in February. Don’t forget the battle of books about that time, too. It is said that Fresh McCullum and Westbrook are having a contest to see which one can excel the other in the standing broad grin. Watch.them carefully and see which one is leading the next time you meet either on the campus. Davidson is proud of Pat Crawford and his state champions. Pat never made his letter in varsity football, but for four long years he trudged out every afternoon, never to have his ambition realized in that sport. As they have said before, though, some of the greatest coaches never played football in their lives. Zuppke is the greatest demonstration of this. Laval, coach of Furman, never knew what it was to be in a varsity game. It shows that they get the fundamentals and have the ability to give that knowledge to others. The best high school team in the state and one of the best college teams in the state are to be guests on that occasion. Every year Gastonia comes to the forefront and cements the close bond of feeling existing between Davidson and the alumni association there by giving the Wildcat letter men a banquet. And they don’t fail to feed, they tell us. We'll tell you more about it next week—if we are able after it is all over.

Ikey Finkleberg—“Vot train leaf?”
Conductor—“Two o'clock, sharp.”
Ikey—“Vell, make it vun ninety-eight and I'll take it.”

“What’s all that noise down the street?”
“Somebody turned a corner.”
“Well?”
“There wasn’t any corner.”

RITCHIE, TACKLE, DAVIDSON

Wildcat Players Coach High School Champions
Gastonia High Wins State Title After Being Coached by Wildcat Players

On last Wednesday, December 2, Coach Pat Crawford, of the Gastonia High School, invited the coaches and certain members of the varsity squad of Davidson, to come over and help them prepare for their coming battle with Sanford for the state championship. Those going over were Coaches Younger and Tilson, “Brassy” Baker, Lucian Wells, and Joe McConnell. Tilson, Baker, and McConnell spent the afternoon helping Crawford with his line, while Younger and Wells worked with the backfield. They all enjoyed their workout with the Gaston boys very much, and were glad to help Pat Crawford.

The battle for the state championship was fought Saturday at Chapel Hill. The Gastonia team, representatives of the west, went into the fray in perfect condition. The Sanford boys were outweighed by Crawford’s chargers, but they expected to make up for this in fight. The game was a thriller from start to finish, but it could readily be seen that Gastonia had the advantage. The winners earned a clean victory, and made eight first downs to none for their opponents. Early in the second quarter Schneider tackled Gregson behind his goal for a safety. Gastonia’s touchdown was not made until the last quarter, when Frederick drove through the Sanford line for the marker. Henderson, for Gastonia, and Frazier, for Sanford, were the stars of the game. This is the first time that Gastonia has ever won the football championship of North Carolina. Pat Crawford, coach of the team, is an old Davidson man who graduated with the class of '24. Crawford was quite a star while at Davidson, making his letter in baseball and basketball.

It is suggested that Charlotte do something in this line occasionally. Something of this nature would draw Charlotte and Davidson closer together, and would indicate that Charlotte is back of Davidson to the limit.

1827 Columbia Theological Seminary Columbia, S. C. 1925

The Synod of Mississippi and Columbia Theological Seminary Join Forces. Resolution in Regard to the Columbia Theological Seminary, Adopted November 13, 1924.

“The Synod of Mississippi has heard with pleasure the plan for the removal of the Seminary to the City of Atlanta, Ga. I. Does hereby accept said offer of the Board of Directors of said Seminary when the removal of the Seminary shall have become an assured and legal fact. II. And as this removal may be thus accomplished before another meeting of Synod, it does hereby appoint as Directors in said Seminary: Rev. C. W. Grafton, D. D. Rev. J. B. Hutton, D. D. Mr. R. F. Kimmons respectively for one, two and three years.”

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, President

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS 205 West Trade Street (upstairs) Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte MORALLY CONDUCTED

We Sell Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods

MYERS HARDWARE & SPORTING GOODS COMPANY CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go. Display Room every Friday 10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M. Harrison Clothing Co. Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.