REMEMBER SPANISH NIGHT FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON Joan mae COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 30 THE DAVIDSONIAN SATURDAY No. 27

COLLEGE EDITORS HOLD SEMI-ANNUAL MEET HERE

Davidson Nine Defeats Guilford in Fast Game As Players Shake Jinx Wildcats Come Out of Slump and Play Real Ball VANCE HITS HOME-RUN Game Turns Into Slugfest in Early Innings—Davidson Leads After Second

Coming out of a slump which the team has been in all season, the Davidson Wildcats very decisively defeated Guilford in a baseball game in which the hitting of the entire Davidson team was the outstanding feature. As Davidson had played games and lost all of them, the team had high hopes of adding a victory from Davidson to their string of victories when in the first two innings the Davidson team scored eight runs off Gray, Guilford’s strong left-hander. The score at the conclusion of the game was 16 to 11, and there was exactly that much difference in the playing of the two teams.

Both teams used three pitchers, the Davidson pitchers allowing three less hits than the Guilford pitchers, and gave up but one base on balls, while the Guilford hurlers allowed three. Gray started off for Guilford, but lasted only one inning, being removed in the second, after the Davidson team had scored eight times without a man being out. Thomas, his successor, fared but little better, and was taken out in the sixth inning, after he had given up five hits and two bases on balls, for a total of six runs. Smith finished the game, and pitched the best game of the trio. Oden started for Davidson, but was succeeded by Laird in the second inning, after he had been hit on the middle finger of his pitching hand, and was unable to continue.

(Continued on page 8)

Wildcat Orators Victors In Presbyterian Contest Avalanche of Keen Logic and Convincing Eloquence Wins for Davidson Debaters

Overwhelmed by an avalanche of keen logic and convincing eloquence, the plucky debating team from Presbyterian College succumbed to the brilliant trio of Wildcat forensic artists on last Friday evening, when the two well-known rivals met in their first forensic encounter. The South Carolina debaters, E. T. Wilson, D. D. Edmunds, and J. D. McInnis, upheld the Negative of the query, “Resolved, That Congress should be empowered to overrule by a two-thirds vote decisions of the Supreme Court which declare acts of Congress unconstitutional,” against A. M. Martin, B. U. Ratchford, and H. L. Shaw, the Davidson team. The decision was four to one for Davidson.

A. M. (Piggy) Martin opened the attack for Davidson with a masterly definition of the query and a concise summary of the affirmative’s scheme of proof. He vividly pictured the court's common encroachments upon legislative powers and demonstrated the evils of such policy. E. T. Wilson launched the negative offensive by graphically portraying the dangers of the affirmative policy. He also outlined the constitutional basis for this power of the supreme court.

(Continued on page 6)

Students Go Over The Top in Queens College Campaign

Under the impetus of a week of boosting and ballyhooing, Davidson students went over the top last Wednesday and Thursday in the combined drive for funds for Queens College, Charlotte, and the Hangchow Christian College, China. A corps of room-to-room canvassers visited every room on the campus during the two nights of the campaign last week, and secured subscriptions to the two causes from an unusually large percentage of the students. Incomplete returns from the two drives credited Davidson students with subscriptions totaling $5,753 for the two colleges, $4,525 of which was subscribed to Queens College, and the remaining $1,228 going to the Hangchow Christian College. These figures were compiled before a number of the students and faculty members had been canvassed, and leaders in the two campaigns expressed confidence that the amounts would be boosted considerably when the entire student body had been interviewed.

The campaign was conducted after special exercises in chapel Wednesday, when several leaders spoke. Doctor Frazer, president of Queens College, spoke first in behalf of the Queens drive. He was followed by “Booster” Kuester, president of the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.

(Continued on page 6)

Tennis Team Wins

Saturday night another of Davidson’s winning teams returned to the hill, bringing back with them the scalps of some of the largest schools in the east. The tennis team, composed of Price, Beall, Staley, Trotter, and McCutchen, left Davidson last Monday, April 20th, on their eastern trip. Five matches were played, and, except for the meet with Annapolis, the Davidson team emerged victorious. Tom Staley went through the entire trip without losing a single match. The only new man on the team was McCutchen, who played especially well, dropping only two single matches, these to men from Union Seminary and Navy. It might be said that the outstanding player met on the trip was Bradley, an old Davidson man, of Union Seminary, who defeated Harry Price, 6-3, 7-5.

The University of Maryland was met Tuesday, and the final score was 6-1 in favor of Davidson.

Singles:
McCutchen, Davidson, won from Minklin, Maryland, 4-6, 7-5, 6-3.
Staley, Davidson, won from Matheson, Maryland, 6-1, 4-6, 6-1.
Beall, Davidson, won from Burns, Maryland, 6-2, 6-4.
Trotter, Davidson, won from Tan, Maryland, 4-6, 6-2, 6-3.
Price, Davidson, won from Weber, Maryland, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.

Doubles:
McCutchen and Price, Davidson, won from Minklin and Matheson, Maryland, 6-4, 6-2.
Beall and Staley, Davidson, lost to Weber and Burns, Maryland, 6-2, 6-4.

Navy

Wednesday the Wildcats met their only defeat, that being at the hands of the Navy. The final score was 5-2, in favor of the “Middies.”

Singles:
(Continued on page 8)

ON WITH THE DANCE

“Dance tenderly, love, dance softly for my heart is the rose beneath thy feet.”

A bevy of beautiful and vivacious Spanish actresses like the one pictured in the drawing above, will dance their way into the hearts of a Davidson audience Friday evening at the big Spanish entertainment in Shearer Hall.

Spanish Fête Will Be Full of Real Excitement Dark-Eyed Señoritas and Matadors Will Give Atmosphere of Old Spain in Songs

Get something just as good when the Castilian guitars and clicking castanets, and the Spanish bull are turned loose in Shearer Hall, Friday night. The program will be given by the combined Spanish clubs of Davidson and Queens College, and abundant assurance of an evening of fun and delightful entertainment has been broadcasted from the Spanish-speaking elements of both institutions. The Davidsonian will benefit from this performance. The cream of the bullfighting talent on the campus has been impressed into service, and from all reports, there is to be a battle royal between bold taurus and the matadors. Lances that have long lain idle and the satin pantaloons have been readied.been remodeled so as to shine forth in full splendor. Songs of the arena have been learned, and from the emanations of music that have floated from Shearer the past few days, the campus hangers-on have thought that only a few of the like will be sufficient to floor the bull without the matador’s darts. The girls from Queens will be here to delight all with their songs of love, transplanted directly from the moonlit olive groves of old Spain. Soft and languid strains from the guitar will intermingle with the soft voices of the maidens. The beautiful costumes worn by the dark-eyed senoritas of Spain will be worn by the young ladies. (Continued on page 8)

SPANISH ENTERTAINMENT
Shearer Hall
Friday Evening, May 2
by The Combined Spanish Clubs of Davidson and Queens Colleges
7:30 o'Clock
Admission, 25c
1924

He who has not taken a trip to Spain can sharpened in anticipation of the event, and the bold

Southern History Is Theme of Talk By Senator Heflin

Davidson College may well boast of having one of the few treats of a lifetime that come from the speaker's platform when the students, faculty, and visitors were privileged to hear Hon. J. Thomas Heflin, Alabama, deliver the incomparable “Story of the South” last Monday evening in Shearer Hall. The “matchless dignity, burning eloquence” and superb southern wit of Senator Heflin held the audience spellbound for over an hour and even after the speaker had finished his concluding remarks a spell of silence pervaded the audience. His hearers rose to leave only to realize that the privilege which had just been theirs would soon be a prided memory. Dr. Archibald Currie presented Dr. Frazer, president of Queens College, who introduced the evening's speaker, Hon. J. Thomas Heflin, United States Senator from Alabama. Dr. Frazer briefly, but interestingly, brought the audience into an intimate relationship with the speaker in his brief introduction. After citing the privilege the students have in being at Davidson, where they may receive an inspiration from the memory of the great Woodrow Wilson, who was once a student on this campus; and in a fascinating and unique way telling the history of his (Continued on page 5)

Winston Minister Talks at Vespers

Dr. D. Clay Lilly, pastor of the Presbyterian Church, Winston-Salem, N.C., addressed the students at the Y. M. C. A. vespers last Sunday on the subject, “Believing in Jesus Christ.” “If you think, read, or walk,” said the speaker, “you find that this age is an age of unbelief. Anything you can ground your faith in is worth-while. Is there any reason for not believing? You encounter that which tends to make your faith and belief dwindle away in your professional life, in literature, whatever it may be. What is it to believe? To believe is to believe something about Jesus, and it may be theological or metaphysical. Let us lay a foundation for our belief. Jesus believed in purity, purity of heart, thought, conduct, and speech. Do you? No critic has been able to say anything against Christ's character. Jesus believed in patience. He was patient with all, and at all times. Jesus believed in altruism. He gave to others; His energy passed over to the other fellow. We can take money out of our pocket and give it. That is altruism; but to take it out of our affection, that's sacrificial service. Do you believe in Jesus Christ? Yes. To believe in Jesus is to believe in what He did. Jesus believed in other-worldliness. Seek first the kingdom of God. He believed in prayer. Jesus went out daily to face God. Spirituality. When two people are agreed—they walk together. If you do as Jesus did, you can walk with Him. “He that believeth not is condemned. Believe in Jesus because He is everlastingly right. Jesus had a program of compassion at all times and in all places. ‘Come unto me all ye that labor and I will give you rest.’ That gets everybody. Jesus stands with outstretched hands; this is His program. Jesus had principles and lived them. He had a program, and thirdly He gave promises. (Continued on page 5)

Delegates Gather Here for Ninth Semi-Annual Convention of Editors

Comprehensive Program Has Been Arranged for Delegates to Convention
DR. HOOD TO SPEAK
Twenty-One Publications Will be Represented at Sessions to be Held Here

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will convene in its ninth semi-annual conclave at Davidson College on April 30, and delegates from 21 publications of North Carolina institutions will be guests of The Davidsonian and the Davidson College Magazine. The association will hold sessions through May 2nd. The association comes to Davidson for the second meeting of the year, the first having been held at Greensboro College for Women, with the publications of that institution and those of the North Carolina College for Women as hosts. A comprehensive program has been arranged for the entertainment of the visitors by Ernest Milton and Harllee Branch of The Davidsonian staff. The two leading addresses of the meeting will be by Mr. J. A. Parham, of the Charlotte Observer, and Dr. Fraser Hood of the Davidson faculty. Periods for the business of the association have been set apart as well as hours for the discussion groups in several departments of the journalistic work. The social side of the activities has not been neglected and various diversions have been planned for the delegates. The delegates to the association will gather informally on the evening of Thursday, April 30th, and will be entertained with a reception at the home of Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle. (Continued on page 6)

Coach Younger Signs to Return Again Next Year

Davidson Followers Hear News of Monk’s Intention to Return With Enthusiasm

The anxiety of six hundred Wildcats was somewhat appeased by the report that Coach W. L. (Monk) Younger had signed a two-year contract and that he will be at Davidson for this long at least. Announcement of the signing was made by Dr. J. M. Douglas, head of the athletic department of Davidson, at 10:30 o'clock Friday night. It had been rumored that he would not be back, and many concerned welcomed the signing of the contract. Coach Tilson was seen Tuesday and it was announced Monday night. The work that Coach Monk has done for Davidson must not be underestimated. It is from Coach Monk that the Wildcats have obtained their winning ability and while the players are fighting on the field he is on the bench watching and thinking. His stratagem has won more than one event for the Wildcats. Many have been enthralled when brawn predominated, and at some vital moment the brains of the Wildcats snatched victory from defeat. Coach Monk works with the backfield in football and gives them the minute details of the game while Coach Tex has been putting the line through their strenuous coaching and from these factors a dangerous machine has been turned out. (Continued on page 8)

WELCOME, VISITING DELEGATES