THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

Showing—
Complete list English woolens
Tailored to Measure
Suits $35 Up
Top Coats $25 Up
WARRENS TAILORS
103 WEST
IMPORTING OF PHILADELPHIA
Monday, the 23rd
Most Beautiful Assortment Neckwear
Now is the time to place your order for that TUXEDO for the Easter Dance
CENTRAL HAT SHOP and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing
Dry Cleaning
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest
Oldest
Best
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE

At Efird’s
New Spring Neckwear
There’s no question about it---the Striped Tie is the thing this Spring. Efird’s is ready with hundreds of these ties--- strikingly smart and a wide range of colors makes choosing easy. Priced $1.00 to $3.50

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

The Editor of the Richmond College, commenting on the recent suspension of three Smith College girls for smoking, says, “The main objection to college girls smoking is that they look so distressed in the majority of cases. However graceful she may be by nature, she becomes artificial, constrained, and awkward when smoking. They give themselves away by not knowing what to do. They do not know whether to swallow it or exhale it through their nostrils. Too many college girls fail to realize that they cannot compete with the popular little stenogs who are capable of fingering cigarettes with as much ease as the keys of their typewriters. In any instance, if parents wish their daughters to learn the art, they should not send them to Smith College.”

Two thousand of the Stanford alumni who are veterans of the World War may pool their bonus policies for the construction of a memorial hall at the university.—Yellow Jacket.

Town News
In a unique and original Valentine party on Thursday evening, the Misses Kate and Margaret Taylor, Miss Catherine Deaton of Mooresville, Miss Elizabeth Laird of Davidson, and the members of the Volunteer Band were delightfully entertained at the home of Dr. Porter. Places of interest in the United States were visited by the airplane route. Because of the dark night, views were brought on the inside of the airplane where the knowledge of those present concerning the important places was thoroughly tested. In another contest for hearts, ears were sharpened as the fatal words of “yes” and “no” were eagerly listened for. Dainty refreshments which appealed to the hearts of all carried out the scheme of hearts. An enjoyable evening was spent which came to a close with a rousing vote of thanks to the “Queen of Hearts,” Mrs. Porter.

On Saturday evening, Mrs. Cloyd Goodrum and Misses Martha and Mary Thompson entertained a large circle of friends with a masquerade Valentine party. The costumes were all simple yet very effective. After much deliberation and changing, the prize for the best costume was awarded to Mrs. Oscar Thies. The beautiful color scheme of dark pink and white was carried out in the refreshments which were also appropriate to the day, being in the shape of hearts.

The ornamental frosting class conducted by Mrs. Daugherity during the past week held a demonstration meeting at her home on Thursday afternoon. Some very beautiful effects were produced.

Mrs. Withers entertained her circle of the Woman's Auxiliary on Thursday afternoon with a quilting party.

Rev. M. E. Hansell, the father of Cary Hansell, of the Sophomore class, was entertained at the home of Professor and Mrs. K. J. Foreman, Monday.

The friends of Prof. W. W. Woods will be glad to hear that he has completely recovered from his sickness and will resume his duties this week.

The Young Matron’s Club held a meeting at the home of Mrs. Hengeveld on last Friday afternoon. Refreshments were enjoyed.

Civic League Entertains
On Friday evening at 8:00 o'clock the Civic League gave an interesting entertainment in the form of a Valentine musical in the high school auditorium. On the stage was built a large heart in which a costumed girl stood while an appropriate song was rendered by the chorus. Sweet Alice Ben Bolt, sung by the chorus, was posed by Miss Alice Jane Fleagle; Love's Old Sweet Song, also rendered by the chorus, was posed by Miss Charlotte Hunter. Come Back to Erin was posed by Miss Marjorie Reid. In Old Madrid, posed by Miss Frances Johnston, was sung by Miss Nina Holt White. In the next selection, the audience was captured by the effectivePosing of little Miss Virginia Hengeveld, as Cupid, while "Humoresque" was being played. Mrs. J. P. Williams then sang with much expression "By the Waters of Minnetonka" for the posing of Miss Lucy Martin Currie. The next two selections were rendered by the chorus: "Keep the Home Fires Burning," for the posing of Miss Adele Arbuckle, and "Doodle De Doo," for the posing of Miss Kitty Martin. The selections were announced and the posers introduced with effectiveness by Professor Erwin. His efforts as director and his introductions added much to the success of the musicale. All those who took part measured up to the high standard of good entertainment. Those who posed were dressed in the costume of the day to which the song related.

A Davidson chapter of the Red Cross organization was organized in the Civic League hall at Davidson last week. Davidson, since the war period, has been a branch of the Charlotte chapter of the Red Cross, but recently Davidson and Cornelius united to organize a new chapter and have already signed as members 175 persons from Dewese and Lemly districts of Mecklenburg County. One hundred and fifty members were needed before national headquarters would give Davidson a charter. Davidson will receive its charter in a few days. This chapter will probably be the smallest chapter in the entire Red Cross organization. Under the following officers, it is sure to be of great service to this district: Chairman, H. B. Arbuckle; vice-chairman, J. R. Beard; secretary, M. Laurine; treasurer, W. W. Wood; and secretary of soldier service, J. R. Readling. The above-named officers, together with Mrs. W. Grey, C. M. Stiles, and A. D. Cashion, will constitute the executive committee.

This chapter will be under the control of the national headquarters, so all funds that have been collected since the war period will be turned over to the local chapter for local use.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson lost to Clemson, 28-26, in a hard-fought game. The Davidsonian was reduced in size because of the flu epidemic. A four-game trip into Virginia was canceled because of the flu. A letter signed, “E. Pluribus Unum,” comes out in the Open Forum with a justifiable kick because the Elon game was called off as “it would be harmful to stand in a well-ventilated gym and cheer your own Red and Black team on to victory.” Nevertheless, chapel was held the next morning and an hour’s lecture given to the battalion. “Why not a Bulletin Board in place of chapel?” says the writer in Open Forum.

A student wants Sunday breakfast abolished and the cost of it put into Sunday dinner.

An Editorial

Heights of students reached and kept, Were not attained by cutting class But made while their companions slept Who had a struggle just to pass.

A column and a half article came out praising Mr. Jackson’s efficiency.

EXCHANGES

The Northwestern Glee Club will probably have the best trip that any college organization will take this year. They will visit Sioux City, Omaha, Lincoln, Denver, Salt Lake City, Los Angeles, Hollywood, San Francisco, and Seattle. When they come back, they will compete with other glee clubs at Kansas City for the honor of representing the Middle West at New York—New Student.

For many years Tech has been “mothered” by the state. However, the state has done some rotten “mothering.”

Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co. Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

Earn While You Learn

COLLEGE Students of ability can make good money in their spare time acting as our representatives. We have a clean-cut proposition that insures a steady income during college and after graduation, if desired. Write for details, without obligating yourself.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

Realizing this fact, several ladies of Atlanta conceived the idea of forming a Tech Ladies’ Auxiliary to be composed of wives of alumni, mothers, sisters, or others interested in students or the faculty—Technique.