THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1925

State-Davidson Fight Play By Play

The following is a play-by-play report of the State-Davidson clash here last Saturday, which the Wildcats won, 9 to 0:

First Quarter
Grey kicked off to Johnson on State’s 10-yard line, Johnson returning to his own 25-yard line. Vance threw Thomas for
a 5-yard loss. Johnson gained one. McDowell kicked to Grey on Davidson’s 35-yard line, Grey being downed in tracks. Wells
failed to gain. Hendrix gained two. Grey kicked out of bounds on State’s 43-yard line. Three passes attempted by State
failed and McDowell kicked to Grey on Davidson’s 1-yard line, Grey returning to his own 31-yard line, going out of
bounds. Hendrix made four and a half. Wells gained one. Grey kicked to State’s 45-yard line, McConnell downing the ball.
Johnson gained two but State was penalized for 15 yards. Thomas gained five. Vance threw Thomas for a 2-yard loss.
McDowell kicked to Grey on Davidson's 20-yard line, Grey returning five yards. Grey gained three. Wells gained two. Grey kicked
to State's 46-yard line, Bohannon downed the ball. Thomas gained three. Two passes by State were incomplete and McDowell kicked
to Grey on Davidson’s 15-yard line, with no return. Hendrix fumbled, but McConnell of Davidson recovered on Davidson’s 5-yard line.
Grey punted to McDowall on Davidson's 40-yard line, McDowall being run back five yards by Wells. Thomas gained two. When
two passes by State were grounded, McDowell attempted a dropkick, which went low, Davidson returning the ball to her 25-yard
line. Hendrix gained five. Grey failed to gain. Davidson fumbled but recovered for a 3-yard loss. Grey kicked to McDowall
on State’s 45-yard line, with a 2-yard return. McDowall gained six. Pass incomplete. Bohannon intercepted a pass on Davidson’s 34-yard
line, as the quarter ended, first down and ten to go. Score: State 0; Davidson 0.

Second Quarter
Wells gained nothing. Wells gained 17 yards off tackle for first down, Black failed to gain. Wells dittoed. Pass, Grey
to Hendrix, completed for nine yards. Grey kicked over the goal line, State’s ball on their own 20-yard line. Johnson
gained five. Johnson gained four, Shuford missed first down by half a foot. McDowall kicked to Grey on Davidson's 35-yard
line, Grey returning 11 yards. Wells went out of bounds for no gain. Pass incomplete. Pass, Grey to Wells to
Bohannon completed for 11 yards and first down. Wells gained six. Wells failed to gain. Pass incomplete. Grey attempted a
dropkick which failed, the ball going over the goal line. It was State’s ball on their own 20-yard line. Vance
threw Thomas for a 5-yard loss. Johnson fumbled but State recovered for a 3-yard loss. McDowall kicked out of bounds
on State’s 23-yard line. Wells failed to gain. Hendrix failed. Pass incomplete. Allen went in and on the next play,
standing on his own 36-yard line, dropkicked, the ball landing in the bleachers. Score: State 0; Davidson 3.

Grey kicked off out of bounds. On the next kickoff Davidson was offside. For the third time Grey kicked off,
this time from the 35-yard line, the ball again going out of bounds. It was State’s ball on their own
40-yard line. Hunsucker gained five. Jeanette gained one. Pass incomplete. McDowall kicked to Davidson's 36-yard line, the ball coming to
a standstill. Hendrix gained eight. Grey gained eight yards and first down. Leggette gained five. Harrison gained three. Black gained
15 and first down over left tackle. Two passes incomplete. Pass, Grey to McConnell, completed for five yards, but two
State players interfered with the receiver and State was penalized 15 yards, putting the ball on State’s 15-yard line. Hendrix
failed to gain. Two passes grounded, and then one was completed, Grey to Black to Bohannon, for six yards. The
ball went over to State on downs on their own 10-yard line. Hunsucker fumbled but White, of State, recovered for
no gain, as the half ended, the ball still on State’s 10-yard line in State’s possession, second down and 10
yards to go. Score: State 0; Davidson 3.

Third Quarter
Shuford kicked off to Grey on Davidson’s 10-yard line, Grey returning 25 yards. Hendrix gained four. Wells gained nothing. Hendrix
gained seven yards and first down. Wells fumbled, but Laird recovered for an 18-yard gain, Davidson’s ball on State’s 35-yard
line. Hendrix and Wells gained five each and first down. Hendrix gained two. Black gained four. Hendrix made 10 more
and first down, ball on State’s 7-yard line. Black gained one yard after fumbling. Wells gained three. Hendrix gained but
half a yard, and on the next play Wells fumbled, Jeanette of State recovering on their own 2-yard line. Hunsucker
gained two yards. Shuford stopped for no gain. McDowall kicked to Grey on State’s 40-yard line, Grey returning 10 yards.
Black failed to gain. Hendrix gained six. Wells failed to gain. Laird attempted a placekick, with the ball resting on
State’s 23-yard line, but Nicholson blocked the attempt, the ball being recovered by Austell on State’s 32-yard line. Hunsucker went
out of bounds for one yard. Hunsucker gained two. Pass incomplete. McDowell kicked to Grey on Davidson's 27-yard line, Grey
returned it eight yards. Wells lost two around the end, the first time Davidson had lost a yard from scrimmage.
Grey went out of bounds for no gain. Grey kicked to State’s 25-yard line to McDowell, who returned 15 yards.
Pass, Jeanette to Shuford, completed for five yards. Shuford gained one. Hunsucker gained 10 yards and first down, the first
down State had made. Shuford gained seven. Hunsucker gained one yard as the third quarter ended, State’s ball on Davidson's
35-yard line, third down and two yards to go. Score: State 0; Davidson 3.

Fourth Quarter
Hunsucker missed first down by three inches. Shuford gained one yard and first down. McDowall gained seven yards. Pass, to
Shuford, gave State first down on Davidson’s 15-yard line. McDowall was thrown by Arrowood for an 8-yard loss. Pass incomplete.
Pass went over the goal line, Davidson being given the ball on their own 20-yard line. Hendrix failed to gain.
Leggette gained one yard. Grey kicked to McDowall on State's 45-yard line, McDowall returning five yards. Shuford gained three. Hunsucker
gained one. Pass incomplete. McDowall made the prettiest kick of the afternoon, the ball going over the goal line, Davidson’s
ball on their own 20-yard line. Grey failed to gain. State penalized five yards for offside. McCombs in two plays
gained three. Grey kicked to State’s 47-yard line, the ball being downed by a Davidson player. Hunsucker gained one. Two
passes were incomplete and McDowall kicked to Davidson’s 5-yard line, Grey returning it to the 19-yard marker. Nisbet slipped off
21 yards for first down, being downed by the safety man on State’s 40-yard line. Hendrix gained four. Hendrix gained
10 yards and first down. Hendrix gained eight.yards. Pass, Hendrix to McConnell, completed for two yards and first down. Pass,
Grey to Black, for six yards, but State was penalized 15 yards, placing the ball on State’s 15-yard line. Hendrix
failed to gain. In two plays, Nisbet gained eight yards, and then Hendrix went seven yards for a touchdown, which
came from a continuous march from Davidson’s 19-yard line. Grey failed on extra point from placement. Score: State 0; Davidson
9.

Grey kicked to Faulkner on State’s 15-yard line, Faulkner returning it 15 yards. Four passes were either blocked or grounded
and the ball went over to Davidson on the fourth down, placing the ball on State’s 15-yard line. Grey gained
eight yards. Davidson called an extra time out and was penalized five yards. Black made five yards and first down
as the game ended, the ball in Davidson’s possession on State’s 5-yard line, first down and goal to go. Final
score: State 0; Davidson 9. Total first downs, State 3; Davidson 14.

TARHEEL STAFF SPONSORS (Continued from page 1)

North Carolina. The Archive, of Duke University, was selected as the best college magazine in North Carolina also at this
time. Frederick Smith, editor of The Davidsonian; Harold Burke, business manager, and Harllee Branch, managing editor, will be the official
representatives from this paper. The Magazine and Annual have not yet selected their representatives.

Forensic Council Arranges Debates

To those of a literary mind, debating is fast becoming a topic of interest and though no definite schedule has
been made out, plans are fast taking shape for a busy spring in the forensic line. The manager of the
debating team is in correspondence with the Universities of Arizona and Pennsylvania, both of which desire matches. More definite arrangements,
which will probably lead to certain dates, have been made with Presbyterian College of South Carolina, Sewanee, and V. P.
I., and an attempt is being made to secure a debate with the University of Pittsburgh, or if this is
impossible, one with William and Mary.

There are seven varsity debaters back this year, these being Hollingsworth, Parker, Shaw, Bowie, Ratchford, Williams, and Wharton. With these
men working hard, together with last year’s Freshman teams and those of the year before, Davidson should make a very
creditable showing. As for the Freshman debates to take place next spring, plans have been made for a renewal of
the triangular debate with the University of North Carolina and Wake Forest. These debates are excellent training for future varsity
work and a good number of Freshmen are expected out. In preparation for all of the intercollegiate debates next spring,
the Junior-Senior and Freshman-Sophomore inter-class debates will be held in the fall. Also coming in the late fall will be
the tryouts for the Junior oratorical contests which come at Junior Speaking in the spring. The year's program is full
of activity and a great deal of interest is centered around the outcome of the year’s work.

Mass Sports Make Debut at Davidson This Week

Intra-Mural Sports to be Inaugurated Under Direction of Captain Elkins

Intra-Mural sports have at last invaded the lair of the Wildcats. The first organized display of these sports came on
last Monday when a large number of students met in an exciting and new game of cageball. Several games of
volleyball and other sports had been played with the new equipment but none had been under the supervision of Captain
Elkins before. The sports are under the direction of the R. O. T. C. department, but the funds to buy
the equipment were donated by the college.

Several new sports will make their debut during the coming week, according to Captain Elkins. Among these are servus ball,
a magnified form of volleyball, and speedball. The director of these athletics is also hoping to obtain a pushball in
the near future in order to afford sport for many more students. On Wednesday, the afternoon drill will be devoted
to mass athletics and the entire battalion will engage in contests of some kind arranged by Captain Elkins. At the
next football game on the Hill, the Duke game on Thanksgiving, the entire Freshman class will engage in a pushball
game between the halves. This should further the interest of intramural sports to a great extent and make them one
of the most popular activities on the Hill. The equipment and grounds will be available for all members of the
student body at all times and is not limited to any special organization.

A new form of scholarship honors is popular at the University of Colorado. All members of a group of students
whose term average is above eighty percent are guests at a formal banquet given by those members of the group
whose average is below that grade.

Women at the University of Oklahoma have begun to flavor lipsticks. The fad is fast spreading over the university town
and great ingenuity is being used to get different flavors, which range from lemon to tutti-frutti—The Flat Hat.

ALHAMBRA
Monday, Tuesday
“THE SIEGE”
Wednesday, Thursday
“The Turmoil”
Friday, Saturday
Fred Thomson
“Ridin the Wind”

In an isolated region, almost inaccessible in winter, this 6500 h.p. hydro-electric plant located on the Deerfield River in New
England, starts, protects, and stops itself.

A Self-Starting Power Plant

Dawn—the slumbering city awakens and calls for electric current. Many miles away the call is answered. A penstock opens automatically,
releasing impounded waters; a water turbine goes to work, driving a generator; and electric current is soon flowing through wires
over the many miles to the city. This plant starts and runs itself. Power plants with automatic control are now
installed on isolated mountain streams. Starting and stopping, generating to a set capacity, shutting down for hot bearings and windings,
gauging available water supply, they run themselves with uncanny precision. Thus another milestone has been reached in the generation of
electric power. And with present-day achievements in power transmission, electricity generated anywhere may be applied everywhere.

The General Electric Company has developed generating and transmitting equipment step by step with the demand for electric power. Already
electricity at 220,000 volts is transmitted over a distance of 270 miles. And G-E engineers, ever looking forward, are now
experimenting with voltages exceeding a million.

A new series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask
for booklet GEK-1.

The non-technical graduate need not know where electricity comes from—nor even how it works. But he should know what electricity
can do for him no matter what vocation he selects.

GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC
SCHENECTADY, N.Y.
