: THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925

"Dependable Footwear Since 1889"

SHOES FOR THE WILDCATS

Next Wednesday and Thursday, Oct. 28 and 29, the J. M. Hendrix Company of Greensboro will be on the campus
with their new line of snappy Fall Shoes---at prices that will make you wonder how it can be done. Mr.
J. Max Hendrix will be at Phi Hall to welcome you to inspect the latest and best in Footwear for
Young Men---and it will pay you to drop in next Wednesday or Thursday.

PHI HALL, WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, OCT. 28 AND 29

J. M. HENDRIX COMPANY
"GENE" WITHERSPOON AND "JIM" HENDRIX
GREENSBORO, N. C.

HOW THEY’LL WEIGH

| D.C. Wt. | Furman Wt. |
| --- | --- |
| Pinkney 156 | Tilgham 170 |
| Bohannon 150 | McElveen 165 |
| Arrowood 165 | Brown 175 |
| Laird 172 | Smith 180 |
| Baker 153 | Blackwell 175 |
| Ritchie 173 | Thomas 175 |
| Vance 165 | Perry 180 |
| Grey, J. 160 | Hammett 172 |
| Christian 145 | Rawl 160 |
| McConnell 161 | Harrell 160 |
| Simms 150 | Pipkins 164 |
| Black 165 | Duncan 150 |
| Wells 160 | Pulley 180 |
| Grey, R. 154 | Orr 175 |
| Hewlette 145 | Robertson 165 |
| Leggette 145 | Sewell 203 |
| Nesbit 144 | Carson 175 |
| Harrison 143 | Hurt 162 |
| McCombs 160 | Lance 168 |
| Allen 162 | Laney 160 |

Team averages: Davidson 158, Furman 167.
Backfield: Davidson, 156; Furman, 164.
Line: Davidson, 170; Furman, 174.
Tackle to tackle: Davidson, 162; Furman, 177.

PURPLE HURRICANE (Continued from page 1)

These men are some that have so far been showing up exceptionally well and who will cause the Wildcats some
bit of worry Saturday. Followers of the gridiron sports in this section of the state will be given a chance
to see the strange "quilt formation" Laval is using this year. This formation is somewhat similar to the one used
by the Presbyterian College Freshmen when they played the Wildkittens here last Friday. Just how far this "psychological play," as
it has been termed, will go against the Wildcats remains to be seen.

The Davidson team will go on the field Saturday with the same team that started the game against Presbyterian College
last Saturday.

Cross-Country Team is Holding Daily Workouts

Williford, Stigler, Penn and O'Neal Are Showing Best Form

The cross-country squad is showing up well as a whole. There are no outstanding individuals as yet, but Williford, Stigler,
O'Neal, and Penn are expected to excel in the tryouts. Williford is probably the season's best bet with Penn a
close second. Williford has a good record in track, having made his letter twice in the 2-mile event. He has
also made the cross-country team for the past two years. Penn, Stigler, and O'Neal were all on the Freshman track
team last spring, Stigler and O'Neal being members of the cross-country team last year.

In addition to these men, there are several Freshmen and upperclassmen who are trying for the first time who are
doing some excellent work and the men who keep them off the team will be good runners. The squad now
runs the full course of three miles daily and special attention is being given to the development of speed, sufficient
wind, and endurance in the past few weeks of training.

The first meet of the season will be with State at Davidson, one week from Saturday, possibly between halves of
the State-Davidson game.

FRESH STATISTICS (Continued from page 1)

Heel state in numbers, but ranking in quality, brought forth 19 and 18 respectively. Other states, from New York to
New Mexico, contributed their quota. Quite a variety of cognomens were evident when the aforementioned specimens signed their John Hancocks
to their registration papers.

While nothing like as important to the students as the Wake Forest game was, there is much interest being displayed
for this game. Statistics show that the Wildcats in the old days found Furman comparatively easy, but in the past
few years the Purple Hurricane has been causing the Wildcats no little bit of trouble, and this year they are
one of the strongest teams that Davidson plays. A victory over them will mean much, not only for the sake
of keeping the slate clean, but in comparing the Wildcats with the others of the state by the scores. Manager
Regen says they are expecting a larger crowd than witnessed the Wake Forest game, and preparations are being made to
seat them.

Davidson Hi Team Holds Cornelius Squad to Tie

Local High School Eleven Battles Heavier Team to a 0-0 Tie

In a rather slow game of football, the Davidson High eleven held the heavier Cornelius grid-men to a scoreless tie
last Friday. This second fracas of the season between the two schools, the first being captured by the Davidsonians in
a free-for-all, ended 7-0. The locals were out-weighed about 15 pounds to the man. Very few first downs were made
by either team, the Cornelius lads having the edge with three first downs to two for Davidson. The Cornelius backs,
finding themselves unable to make headway through the strong Davidson defense, resorted to an aerial attack. However, this proved a
failure, for out of a number of passes attempted, only one was successful which resulted in a first down.

Davidson's backs performed with their usual skill but it was the line to whom most credit must be given. Caldwell,
Davidson’s plucky little 110-pound center, proved to be a terror to the Cornelius backs, breaking through time after time to
throw the runner for a loss. Williamson at left guard and Captain Donaldson at right tackle showed exceptional ability.

Davidson 0-0 0-0—0
Cornelius 0-0 0-0—0

CHARLOTTE MAN IS HEARD (Continued from page 1)

today. We go about troubling ourselves with trifles which mean nothing to us when we...should be mindful of the things
of Christ which need.” Citing the marriage to which everyone was invited we find one and all began to make
excuses why they were not able to. The speaker showed how people of today always have excuses which they offer
for not doing the things Christ would have them do. Turning over to the nineteenth chapter of Luke, Mr. Glasgow
cited the incident where Jesus dined at the house of Zaccheus and how Jesus converted him. “A sordid and contemptible
little Jew was changed into a respectable man and Christian,” Mr. Glasgow stated, “and in the same way Jesus will
take us today and make us Christian, men of worth.” The last speech of Jesus that was referred to was
the one in which we find Jesus asking Peter if he loves Him. He asked Peter this question three times
and each time Peter answered in the affirmative but the last time, his answer was more passionate. He had to
ask this disciple this question three times to have the right effect; Peter had his mind on things of the
world. “Just in the same way, we are prone to let our mind and body follow sensual things and we
have to have constant reminding of the real things in life.”

DR. ROY BAKER (Continued from page 1) Grayson” and under this name he has published “Adventures in Contentment,” and “Adventures
in Understanding.”

NORTH CAROLINA BACKS
Player Touchdowns Goals Points Total
Caldwell 3 0 3 21
Wiley 3 0 0 18
Kanleskinty 3 0 0 18
Poet 2 5 17
Niggomd 2 0 1 13
Underwood, Carolina 1 1 4 13
Riley 1 0 0 12
BlickheDavidson 0 0 12
WGI 1 0 0 12
Oventon, Davidson 1 0 1 7
NRMOS 0 1 4 7
Svenioitel 1 0 0 6
Leggette, Davidson 0 0 6
Harrison, Davidson 0 0 6
Shannon, Davidson 0 0 6
Hendrix, Davidson 0 0 6
Kde 0 0 6
Grave Davidson 1 0 0 6
Arrowood, Davidson 0 0 6
Rackley 1 0 0 6
Ober 1 0 0 6
Honiham 1 0 0 6
McMurray, Carolina 1 0 0 6
SWI 1 0 0 6
Pankan, High Point 1 0 0 6
WhitenGuilford 1 0 0 6
BARU Davidson 0 0 6
COs 1 1 4
BerberoWieb 0 0 1 1
Allen, Davidson 0 1 1

HIRAM DUMFRESHIE WRITES THE FOLKS
Davidson, N.C.
Wednesday.

Dear Pa,

I will write you a bit now, to hurry as I must get some studying done before nine o'clock. It
is only seven now, but I will in a while when I go to bed. I like college fine except
that you have to study a lot, and that takes up so much of your time. We go to breakfast
and then to chapel, and then to classes nearly all morning, and we have to drill with real guns, too,
just like those that Hank Sedberry always tells us about that he used in the war at Camp Gordon, down
near Atlanta, where he saw that show with all the pretty ladies in it. You know what kind of guns
I mean. I bet I can do squads right better’n Hank, cause we have to drill three times a week,
and wear real uniforms. My hat fits me good, except it is a little too tight where it comes on
my head, but if I brush my hair the night before and that morning too it looks pretty good on
me. I like my shirt fine. The sleeves just fit if I give each one a couple of rolls, and
I don't have to undo my collar to scratch my back. It sure is convenient, too.

They had a football game here the other day. I wish you could have seen it. You know I always
thought football was a kind of a disease, something the matter with your feet until I came here, but it
ain't. Somebody else’s team came down here and all the college fellers sat up on the seats and yelled to
go get 'em wildcats. I didn’t see no wildcats out there, so I thought they must be foolin’. After a
while a man who had forgot to put on his pants came out in his white winter underwear and blew
a whistle. You know he didn’t wear red flannels like mine. They were real white like the ones in Sears
Roebuck. I started to go tell him that he forgot his breeches, but as there were some ladies there and
he did not seem to notice he had forgot them I didn’t want to embarrass him. Well that football game
was a sight. We had eleven men out there, and the other side had eleven men. There was another man
with the fellow in his underwear. This fellow was as big as I am but he was still wearing short
breeches. He sure did look funny. They had a football out there, and one crowd would try to get it
down the pasture to some haymow frames, and the other crowd would try to keep them from doing it. One
fellow got mad and threw the ball at another fellow and he ran clear down past the haymow frames and
fell down. I don't think it hurt him when he fell because he got up when the man without any
breeches ran down there and patted him on the back like I do old Nell whenever an automobile passes. Then
they all got lined up in front of the haystack frame, and one fellow must have got mad again, for
he kicked the ball so hard that it went sailing up in the air right between two of the planks
that was on the frame. They didn't have a bit of hay on those frames, and I didn’t see any
growing around here, either. Maybe they didn’t plant anything on the ground this year. I guess they was letting it
rest.

Pa, you told me I wouldn't need that big yellow and green striped wool shirt that I wore all last
winter when I was chopping cord wood, but every feller up here has one, and I want mine, too. Lots
of the fellers wear plow shoes, too, and I don’t think some of them know much about plowing, cause lots
of them have real muddy shoes, and you know it will ruin the ground to plow when it is muddy,
won't it? I am going to tell them when I get a chance. You know that pair of garters you
bought me down at the settlement before I left? Well I have not worn them since two days after I
got here. Nobody wears them, they just let them sag, and don’t seem to mind it a bit. So I
just let mine sag, too. There ain't a grate or a stove in my room, Pa. I was wondering what
we was going to do to keep warm one cold day when I sat down on a little iron window
seat that was in my room, and it burnt me. I ran down to the wash room and got a
bucket of water and threw on it, but that didn’t keep it from burning.
