THEDAVIDSONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C., MARCH 12, 1925

Songbirds from Queens College Please Large Audience With Program of Song A-plenty for Excited Boys

The Friskies Provide Thrills

MISS HOLMES STARS

Harmony of Chorus Especially Good — Numbers Are Encored Consistently by Delighted Hearers

The Queens College Glee Club gave an excellent entertainment before an enthusiastic audience last Friday night in Shearer Hall. The hall was practically filled with Davidson students who showed their appreciation of the numbers by hearty applause and by insisting on encores for many of the selections. The program as a whole was one which appealed to a college audience, consisting largely of popular music by the orchestra, though choruses and solos, instrumental and vocal, played a prominent part.

The jazz orchestra, The Friskies, was exceptionally good and formed the main attraction for the students. It played almost entirely late popular music, and played it well. The unique costumes of The Friskies, covered with musical notes, added to their charm, while the xylophone, a new thing in college orchestras, played by Miss Carolil Graham, showed their originality.

The unrivaled “hits” of the evening were the song Too Tired, sung by Miss Eunice Graham, and the song Doodle De Doo and parodies sung by Misses Peace, English, Penny, Stevens, Brown, and Martin. Both of these songs were accompanied by the orchestra. The audience called for them several times and Miss Graham sang again towards the end of the program.

The chorus was well trained and showed good talent in rendering several selections with great skill. Miss Beulah Holmes, in leading the chorus and in her solo, The Awakening, displayed a charming voice.

(Continued on page 7)

Quips and Cranks Ready for Prompt Publication

Success of 1925 Annual is Assured as Last of Material Goes to Printers

The editor-in-chief, J. A. Lake, announces that all but about 10 pages of the 1925 Quips and Cranks have been sent to the printer. These few pages are being held back in order to get all the usual pictures published. Although some of these pictures have just been taken, the photographer promises to have the prints ready in a few days. As soon as these prints are sent in, the staff can give a sigh of relief and take a deserved rest after having worked all year.

Milhous announces that the annual is going to press this year with a very bright financial outlook. He states that there is no chance of the publication coming out in debt. This condition is due to the excellent work of the managers and the willing support of the students.

The publication of Quips and Cranks is always an event of much interest to the student body and to many others interested in Davidson activities. Therefore all will be glad to hear that the 1925 issue will be ready for distribution about the middle of May. This issue will contain several new features and each page will be full of interesting things. The Davidson annual has always held a very high place among the publications of the Southern colleges, but this year the annual is expected to be even better than before as every department has been handled by able and efficient men.

Although Quips and Cranks is published under the auspices of the Senior class, the entire student body sends in their contributions and most of the boys have ordered a copy to keep in remembrance of their college days.

Local Orators Plan to Enter National Contest

Attractive Prizes Offered to Winning Participants in Nation-wide Oratorical Contest

A trial contest will be held on April 6 to choose Davidson's representative in the National Intercollegiate Oratorical contest, which is to be fostered by the Better American Federation of California. The United States, for the contest, is divided into seven districts, one of which comprises the Southern States.

The manuscript of the contestants is due April 17 in Washington, and seven speakers will be chosen on the merits of these manuscripts. The winners will compete at Nashville, Tenn., on May 18. The winner of this contest will meet the winners of the other districts at Los Angeles, Cal., on June 5.

Entries must be sent to A. W. Fleming, 604 Hibbs Building, Washington, D.C., by March 25. The orations must not require more than 10 minutes for their delivery and must be on one of the following subjects: The Constitution, Washington and the Constitution, Hamilton and the Constitution, Jefferson and the Constitution.

(Continued on page 3)

Dr. Clegg Sways Vesper Audience By Fine Address

Who Is God? was the subject of the address at the Y.M.C.A. vesper service last Sunday evening. The speaker was Rev. Mr. Clegg, pastor of the Davidson Methodist Church. The main thought developed was How Shall We Think of God?

“Man’s lack of understanding of God is due to his infidelity. Few men even think of God. They assume that God is in heaven, taking care of His own business, apart from the world, and let it stop there.”

The speaker continued by stating that there are several different conceptions of God which have existed in the minds of men. One of these was that God is a being seated on a throne apart from all things, and out of touch with the petty finiteness and frailty of man. This idea was prevalent during the period from the time of Augustine to Descartes.

Another theory was that God is to be seen in all the works of nature. This theory, Pantheism, teaches that nature is God, and God is nature. Everything in nature is a manifestation of the soul and mind of God. Nature is God living.

Later, psychologists advanced the view that God only exists in the minds of men. Outside of the minds of men there is no existence of God. This view conceives of God and conscience as one.

Mr. Clegg proceeded to show that these theories have never really satisfied men. They do not contain the essentials of contentment. Experience, the cue to discovery, suggests that there are two factors in real experience, one of them being subjective, and the other objective.

The subjective factor is in the thoughts, emotions, and desires of the mind, heart, and soul of man. The objective is found in the Creator, the everlasting God. The two are interrelated so as to give man the experience that satisfies these theories. Experience is at the center of the circle of relations. This experience of united relationship with God is brought about in several ways.

The first of these means of bringing about this experience of united relationship with God is through knowledge of the truth. Knowledge presupposes something finite, rather than a mere evolution of ideas.

(Continued on page 8)

Lively Interest Shown As Students Take Part In Exciting Track Meet

Abundance of Track Talent Revealed When New Men Compete

BIG PRIZES AWARDED

A. E. Gray Leads Contestants in Scoring With John Melton Trailing Close Behind

With the first appearance of spring on the Wildcat campus, the aspiring track men hit the cinders in a free-for-all track and field day event Friday afternoon. All students were eligible with the exception of letter men, and there were many contestants. Prizes had been previously offered to the winners of each event and to the two men with the highest final score, by the local concerns.

As there were no letter men in the event, no records were smashed, although some of the men showed their ability and the Davidson track authorities were well pleased with the contests as some idea was gained as to the available material for the coming track season.

From the shot at the beginning of the 100-yard dash until the rumble of the rolling by Ernest Bohannon had died away, the events were closely contested. John Currie, the Fresh class, won the 100-yard dash with a time of 10.3 seconds, and with some training and coaching he shouldbe able to make it in less time. Much attention was attracted by the mile run, in which J. A. Thompson outdistanced Gudger on the final lap. Again, attention was drawn by the two-mile run which J. B. Webb clinched in a final spurt. No one will forget the high jump which Red Evans and H. G. Goodykoontz fought so hard, but the latter finally went a notch higher than the fatigued Evans. The Freshmen showed up well in the event and are expected to contribute much toward making the track team for this year a success. A. E. Grey had the highest final score with 13 points, while J. W. Melton stood second with 10 points. The weather was ideal and the track was in good condition. The events, first three winners, and time follow:

100-yard dash—J. M. Currie, R. and J. W. Melton. (10:3).
220-yard dash—J. M. Currie and Goodykoontz tied for first place with R. S. Lawrance third. (23:2).
440-yard dash—J. I. Pinkney, R. L. McMillian, L. D. Wharton. (56:9).
880-yard run—R. B. Parker, J. W. Kearns, and W. S. Lee. (2 min, 21 sec.)
Mile run—J. A. Thompson, J. R. Gudger, and C. L. Adams. (5 min. 17 sec.)
Two-mile run—J. B. Webb, W. F. Stigler, and C. J. McGehee. (11 min. 25 sec.)
120-yard high hurdles—A. E. Grey, N. G. Patterson, and A. D. Malloy. (23:21).

(Continued on page 8)

DON’T FORGET THE Rudyard Kipling Recital
Professor Carl Wachter
SHEARER HALL
Friday Evening, March 20
At 8:15 o’Clock
All Seats Reserved
Admission 50c

Eight Intercollegiate Debaters Chosen from List of Fifteen Likely Candidates

Death Takes Jack Miller From Midst of Students
Popular Member of Junior Class Succumbs at His Home After Brief Illness

One of the saddest deaths that has occurred in some time was that of John W. Miller, known to Davidson students as “Jack,” which cast a shadow over the Davidson campus and caused severe shock to his friends here when a message was received announcing that he had died last Friday afternoon at his home in Laurens, S.C. Jack was a member of the Junior class, and his classmates particularly were sorrowful to learn that for the second time this scholastic year a classmate had been called by the Supreme Ruler, a classmate whose roommate had earlier in the year answered that same call. It was not known by many of the students that Jack was seriously ill, and few of them knew that he had gone home. He first became ill on February 24, but was discharged from the infirmary on the morning of the 27th. That afternoon he became nauseated, and on Saturday returned to the infirmary. He became very despondent over his illness.

(Continued on page 7)

Anthology Issue Of Magazine Off Press This Week

On the approaching Saturday, March 14, The Davidson College Magazine will come off the press fully complete in every respect and with a very high standard of efficiency. Next Monday will see the magazine delivered to the college students, and also mailed to many others, including a number of alumni. The present plans for distribution to the Davidson students are quite dissimilar from the past manner of giving it out to them through the force; it has been thought more advisable to deliver the magazines to the students in their respective rooms, including a fair post office service. Although this will be the only issue of the magazine for 1924-1925, on account of heavy debt incurred on the 1923-24 issues, the students and alumni are assured that everything possible has been done to make up for this deficiency by an attractiveness and an efficiency together with an increased size; all of which are peculiar to the coming issue. The quality of the paper used, the division of departments, and the make-up of the entire issue, will well justify the amount of labor which was necessary for its publication. The printers of the magazine, the Washburn Printing Company, of Charlotte, N. C., are very high in their praise of the magazine and declare that it is unquestionably the best issue in every respect that the college has gotten out. The coming issue boasts of a total number of 80 pages, which includes all the printed matter excepting the two covers. This is more than twice the normal size of the magazine. The publication called for 1,000 copies in order that there would be no deficiency in number. It is thought that there will be quite a number left over, but no doubt these will be promptly bought by students for mailing to friends. Present indications point to a successful magazine financially, and also that last year’s debt will be paid off satisfactorily.

Dr. and Mrs. W. B. McIlwaine, of Kochi, Japan, the parents of Chalmers and Heber McIlwaine, arrived Monday. They will stay at the home of Mrs. L. R. Smith for several weeks.

Judges Have Difficult Task in Selecting Winning Speakers

TWO TEAMS SELECTED
Wake Forest and Presbyterian College Scheduled for Forensic Battles This Spring

Fifteen men who had been working for several weeks on their material presented it before a group of five judges in the Intercollegiate Debate trials, held in Dr. J. M. McConnell’s classroom Tuesday evening, March 3. Eight men were selected as representatives of Davidson in the two intercollegiate debates that will be entered this spring. Wake Forest will be met at Queens College the first week in May, and Presbyterian College of South Carolina comes to Davidson the latter part of April. The same query stands in both debates: Resolved, That Congress should be empowered to override by two-thirds vote decisions of the Supreme Court declaring acts of Congress unconstitutional. Against Wake Forest, the Wildcats take the negative, and against Presbyterian College, the affirmative. J. C. D. B. Wharton officiated as chairman and time-keeper. Those trying for places were: A. C. Ray, H. D. Price, A. M. Martin, A. Y. Bowie, H. L. Shaw, I. D. Wharton, P. M. Patterson, J. L. Holtshouser, W. A. Patterson, C. E. Houston, R. R. Parker, W. L. Milton, B. U. Ratchford, T. C. Barr, and W. H. Branch. Of this number, all except Shaw and Holtshouser presented the negative side of the query. After considerable deliberation at the conclusion of the speeches, the judges chose eight men to participate in the remaining debates of this semester. Professors Wachter, Brown, J. M. McConnell, Currie, and Erwin served as judges. They put Parker,

(Continued on page 6)

Three Popular Students Return to Speak at “Y”

Chalmers, McLeod, and Murdock Will Address Students at Vesper Services Sunday

Dwight Chalmers, Dunbar Ogden, and Murdock McLeod, a team of old Davidson men from Union Seminary, will speak at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service on next Sunday. Dwight Chalmers made an enviable record during his college course, being an honor man for four years, captain of the basketball team his Senior year, president of the Y. M. C. A., and one of the most popular men ever at Davidson. He is remembered by the present Senior class for his record-breaking work as “Y” secretary, in which capacity he worked for two years. Dunbar Ogden, valedictorian of the class of 1923, is one of the most successful orators at Davidson, and was the winner of many literary honors while at Davidson. An address which he made before the Y. M. C. A. during his Senior year is still remembered by many members of the two upper classes. Murdock McLeod has been elected president of the Senior class at Union Seminary, one of the highest honors bestowed by the students there. He finished at Davidson in '22 and is remembered for his wit and popularity. He was president of the Phi Society and Ministerial Band. Since leaving college he has been engaged in a further conquest, usually associated with spring. Union Seminary chooses these three men from the entire student body to represent her at Davidson. A record-breaking attendance is expected.

Miss Jane Leighton Richards spent the week-end with her sister, Miss Sophie Richards, at Converse College.