To the Class of '29

FRESHMAN

Vol. XIII ISSUE

ONIAN

DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 22, 1925

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

How Green They Are

WILDCATS

Purple Hurricane Will Rage Against Wildcats in Charlotte Saturday

Furman Team Hopes for Victory After Their Defeat at Hands of Georgia

ACID TEST FOR DAVIDSON

Charlotte Fans to See Crazy-Quilt Formation at Work

With the Presbyterian College game a thing of the past and a hard schedule ahead for the remainder of this
year’s grid season, all eyes are being focused on the Furman game to be played in Charlotte Saturday. In this
contest, the strength of the Wildcats will be put to a severe test and everything they have must be put
forth to keep their record clean.

The Furman team, while having lost one game, still has a good record. Washington and Lee suffered a 20 to
15 defeat at their hands, while a lone touchdown against Citadel added another victory to their credit. Newberry was defeated
by the overwhelming score of 33 to 0, and last Saturday the Purple Hurricane was crushed by the stronger University
of Georgia team, 21 to 0.

Coach Laval has an abundance of reserve material this year, several good men coming up from last year's Freshman squad.
It will be remembered that their Freshman squad last year defeated our Fresh, 26 to 7, and was the best
Freshman team that the new Davidson boys went up against last year.

The line-up has not been given out from Furman as yet. However, among some of the stars that the Purple
Hurricane will send against the Wildcats are: Rawls, a fast backfield man who is exceptionally good on passing and punting;
Pipkins, a 170-pound fullback; Tilghman, another 170-pound man who plays end and is captain; McGee, who so far this season
has shown a remarkable ability at broken field running; and Harwell, a great defensive player.

(Continued on page 6)

Amendment Proposed to Student Constitution

Amendment Seeks to Clarify Constitution and to Vest Council With Dignity

On last Monday morning, at the suggestion of the student council, an amendment to the constitution to the student body
was presented. The amendment in question pertains to article six of section five, which deals with the appeal of a
student to the student body when he believes the punishment given him by the council is not justified.

The substance of article six is as follows: “Should the accuser or the accused feel that he has not derived
justice at the hands of the Student Council, he may carry his case before the Student Body.” The motion placed
before the student body is as follows: A vote of two-thirds of the Student body will be necessary for the
acquittal of the accused.” In accordance with other divisions of the constitution, the motion must be tabled for a period
of ten days in order that it may be fully considered by the student body. At the end of this
time, it must be brought to a vote of the students. A two-thirds majority is required for its passage.

The present student body constitution was drawn up in nineteen fourteen by a

(Continued on page 5)

Minute Survey of Davidson College Shows Efficiency

Dr. Robert L. Kelly, of New York City, Secretary of Council of Church Boards of Education, has spent ten days
at Davidson making a survey of the college. Dr. Kelly is also Secretary of the American Association of Colleges, which
has a membership of 300 institutions. These associations made a careful study of what institutions the majority of the students
at the various theological seminaries came from. They found that the larger part of the students came from the following
colleges: Ohio Wesleyan, first; Davidson College, second; University of Illinois, third, and University of California, fourth.

The two associations named above decided to make a careful social, religious survey of the two colleges named and of
two others to be chosen. As it was known that he and Mr. Bartlett, his colleague, were to make this
survey of the college, the Board of Trustees formally requested Dr. Kelly to make a detailed survey also from the
educational and scholastic standpoint and that he make recommendations that may occur to him in regard to matters as he
found them with a view of correcting weak points of any kind in connection with the college.

In his report on the results of his survey, he commended that all phases of the college are well organized
and are functioning efficiently, but he made suggestions as to improvements which he saw necessary. He made a detailed study
of college life, including instruction, finances, social and religious activities, and was especially interested in the social phases of the
college. He found that the business of the college was being carried on very efficiently to a

(Continued on page 2)

Charlotte Man is Heard at Vespers

Mr. Tom Glasgow, one of Charlotte's leading business men and Christians, was the speaker at the “Y” Vesper Service on
last Sunday evening. This was his fourth time as a speaker at the “Y” here at Davidson and each time
he has made himself more endeared to the student body.

Mr. Glasgow spoke on “Christ's After-dinner Speeches” and based his talk on the theme of these speeches which theme was
“First Things First.” He discussed four of these speeches. Referring his listeners to the ninth chapter of Matthew, he related
the incident where Jesus sat down to meat with the publicans and sinners. When the Pharisees saw this, they asked
the disciples why Jesus mingled and ate with publicans. Jesus heard this remark and said that they which were whole
did not need a physician. “Here,” said Mr. Glasgow, “we find Jesus teaching, ‘First things first.’ The Pharisees were putting
elements of social life before the affairs of the soul.”

Leaving the scene of Jesus with the publicans and sinners, the speaker turned to the after-dinner speech of Jesus found
in the tenth chapter of Luke. Here Jesus is received into the house of Mary and Martha, and while Mary
sat at the feet of Jesus and heard his word, Martha was preparing dinner. When Martha asked Jesus to bid
Mary to help her with dinner, He commended Mary and said that she had chosen the one thing that Martha
needed. “That one thing,” said Mr. Glasgow, “is the thing that we need

(Continued on page 6)

DEDICATION

This issue of the “Davidsonian” is dedicated to the Class of '29, and contains not only the regular news that
is carried each week, but also such other features as are of particular interest to the freshmen. It was, of
course, both impractical and impossible to confine the entire edition to freshmen news; but the staff has endeavored as far
as possible to give news of the first-year men primary consideration.

We are indebted to the following freshmen for their work in connection with this issue:
R. O. Flynn, Jr.
H. A. Knox.
W. H. Hill.
J. H. Weaver.

Dr. Roy Baker Visits Davidson to Get Data for Wilson Biography

Biographer Seeks Notes on Woodrow Wilson’s Student Days at Davidson

On Monday, October the 19th, Ray Stannard Baker, commissioned by Mrs. Wilson to write the authorized “Life of Woodrow Wilson,”
visited the campus of Davidson College in quest of information concerning the late President's student days at this institution. Dr.
Baker is on a tour of the Southern States collecting, as he stops in the various communities where Woodrow Wilson
passed his early life, intimate details of the great statesman’s personality and facts in his early history.

While at Davidson, Dr. Baker examined the available records, in particular those relating to Wilson's connection with the Eumenean Society
and those relating to the President's visit tothe campus on May the 20th, 1916, and conferred with the college librarian
on this and other material. Dr. Baker was the T. W. Lingle of the Davidson faculty who, it will be
remembered, headed the delegation of students that attended the inaugural celebration in Washington when Davidson's famous son took the oath
of office in 1913. On Monday afternoon, a former classmate of Woodrow Wilson, Mr. Victor H. Caldwell, of Concord, N.C.,
was visited, and from him, Dr. Baker obtained further information. At the death of the “Lion of S Street,” Dr.
R. S. Baker was selected by Mrs. Wilson to be the official biographer; and all papers and records were turned
over to him. Dr. Baker had been an intimate friend of the President and was closely associated with him during
the period of the peace negotiations. Among the positions Dr. Baker held at this time was that of director of
the Press Bureau of the Mission to Negotiate Peace. Ray Stannard Baker is a name well-known in the field of
journalism and contemporary literature. He served on the editorial staffs of the McClure's and American magazines, among others, and is
the author of several volumes, notably: “The New Industrial Unrest,” “What Wilson Did at Paris,” “Woodrow Wilson and World Settlement,”
and “A History of the Peace Conference.” Dr. Baker is better known to the readers of the Saturday Evening Post
and the American Magazine under the pseudonym of “David Grayson.”

(Continued on page 6)

American Fresh Statistics Reveal Startling Facts About Rats

As fluttereth the autumn leaf from the parent tree, so fluttered on the 10th of September a bewildering array of
minute green bodies from their domiciles of varied distances, forms, and positions. These verdant objects, known in the college vernacular
as freshmen, were swept to ethereal heights by the wandering winds of chance only to be lowered upon the campus
of Davidson as complete vacuums surrounded by walls of chlorophyll. The hectic flush of the exterior portions of these bodies
was not surpassed by the natural green over the campus of this ancient and honorable institution. When the inanimate objects
beheld their superiors in verdance, their inferior color seeped away into a dull brown.

No one state has the honor of claiming this verdant conglomerate mass, but the voices of sixteen of the fair
daughters of Uncle Sam arise in one great protest of the fact that they have at one time shared in
the compilation of atoms and molecules composing the gigantic monument to the inherent incapability of man's mental quality erroneously referred
to as intelligence. Father Time has had a lengthy experience with some of these objects, this dating over a period
of 22 years for three of them. Quite to the contrary, one of these specimens has been spreading its green
light for only 14 years. The Old North State, after such a long period of rest from producing the cream
of college material in the South last year, again contributes the largest portion of the specimens of intellectual incapability. South
Carolina and Georgia, far behind the Tar Heel State, follow in the list.

(Continued on page 6)

Library Board to Order New Books

On last Friday night, the Library Committee of Union Library of Davidson College held its fall meeting. All the members
of the committee, which is composed of Professors I. F. Shewmake, C. R. Harding, H. B. Arbuckle, I. J. Erwin,
and A. Currie, together with Miss Cornelia Shaw, librarian, were present, so that the business on hand was quickly dispatched.
The meeting was devoted mainly to departmental matters. A large number of orders handed in by various professors was accepted,
to which a small number of books of general interest will be added. An order of this size, comprising nearly
two hundred dollars, is usually from two to three months in getting on the shelves, so the majority of the
books ordered will not be available before December 1st. Together with the above list, an interesting list of books for
the department of French was accepted. It is hoped that these books, selected by Dr. W. L. Lingle while in
Paris, will be on the shelves by November 1st, so as to be of aid to those pursuing that particular
course of study. A special committee was also appointed, with Miss Shaw as chairman, to look into the matter of
securing magazine racks for the reading room. The committee hopes to find some arrangements for magazines, so that persons wishing
to read them will not disturb those reading the daily papers. Extending a vote of thanks to President Martin for
his gift of the beautiful bust of Dante purchased in Italy, the board adjourned, the business of the fall being
completed.

FROM BLUESTOCKINGS AT ROCK HILL

Davidson Scores Twice in Third Period After Showing Listless Form

Bluestock Eleven Plays Hard But Fails to Show Expected Drive

WELLS AND KIRVEN STAR

Inclement Weather Slows up Teams and Makes Game Lengthy

Once more Rock Hill fans and the Winthrop College girls have had an opportunity of seeing Davidson College defeat the
Blue Stockings of Presbyterian College, the Wildcats last Saturday widening their marginal difference greater than ever before, defeating the South
Carolina Presbyterians, 13 to 0. It was in a large measure a repetition of the performance in Asheville last year,
when the Wildcats won, 15 to 3. In the 1924 game, the score was 3 to 0 in favor of
P. C. at the end of the first half, while this year it was at a standstill. The Wildcats, however,
came back both times, and in the last half in Asheville made 15 points as compared with 13 last Saturday.
The day was anything but conducive to good football. It was hot and sultry, and because of the fight, the
teams called time out frequently and consistently. The Blue Stockings seemed to suffer most from the drive of the Wildcats
in the second half. It was expected to be more of a battle than it really was, and the spectators
were slightly disappointed in the game Saturday. Fans were expecting something sensational. A surprise had been promised by the P.
C. aggregation, but nothing along that line materialized. The Wildcats started off the game with a rush, registering two first
downs in succession, one being a beautifully executed pass, Hewlette to Wells, for 30 yards, which was one of the
thrills of the game. From then on in that half, the team relapsed into a more defensive attitude than an
offensive one.

(Continued on page 5)

Home-Coming Day is Set for Date of State Game

Record-Breaking Crowd of Alumni Expected to Return for Game With Wolfpack

October 31st has been selected as Home-Coming Day for all old men of Davidson. Following a custom of several years
to have this celebration at the time of a big football game, this date was named as N.C. State plays
on the Hill at that time. It will be remembered that the Carolina game was the main event in the
celebrations of last year, and that the contest with The Citadel brought many alumni back to Davidson the year before.
The athletic authorities are planning to handle a crowd equally as large as the one that witnessed the Carolina game
last year. At that time, there were over 6,000 visitors on the campus. As the State game will have a
direct bearing on the championship race, it is practically assured that there will be a record-breaking crowd at Richardson Field
on the 31st. An interesting program is in the process of formation. The entertainment that is to be provided for
the visitors and students is to be varied and mirth-provoking. In the past, the Dramatic Club and Glee Club have
had charge of

(Continued on page 3)
