oh P Y IDSONIAN,;- NOVEMBER 12, 1925 ae The Davidsonian Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association Member of Southern
Collegiate Press Association FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15 "The Livest Wire on the Hill" Published weekly by the students of
Davidson College Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents
per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by
7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published. Editor-in-Chief CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH Business Manager HAROLD
D. BURKE Managing Editor W. H. BRANCH Assistant Managing Editor L. D. WHARTON Assistant Managing Editor F. JONES Athletic Editor
Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor Associate Editor F. K.
BELL Business Staff HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager W. H. LYNCH Assistant Business Manager V. S. BROYLES Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER Circulation Manager E. D. WITHERSPOON Assistant Circulation Manager S. DOUGLASS Assistant Circulation Manager W. T. VULTANG Service
Department C. R. WEORD Assistant Service Manager Reporters' Club G. M. WILSON, Pres. J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
B. MARTIN C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr. R. H. McILWAINE S. O. McKNIGHT W. H. ALLISON J. P. H. M. AUSTIN
I. F. MOORE F. K. BELL K. REGEN C. L. BRAGAW L. SHELBY D. M. CALHOUN J. B. THOMPSON W.
T. COVINGTON J. B. WEBB W. T. DAVIS J. G. WHARTON E. L. DOUGLASS W. S. GORDON W. S. WOODS
EDITORIAL On to Carolina, Wildcats! That nifty little sign on our tank bids fair to remain until death doth overcome.
We hope that it applies to our side of the clash with Carolina. What good is a college education? After
four years of practicing yells at pep meetings, ball games, and at passing "fire," the average student rarely acquires the
voice of a first-rate fruit-stand vendor. We owe our blondes to Chemistry, our marcelles to electricity, but we owe most
of our money to the drug store down on the corner where Sst rules the roost. Now is the time,
as the joke says, to keep up that chatter about Davidson’s chances for winning the state championship. Let's take a
healthy swing at it and even if we lose, we shall have had a big time. Many a man starts
losing flesh when he buys his first safety razor. The Davidson delegates to the Press Convention at Chapel Hill are
hoping to have as big a time as they did in entertaining the club at its meet here last spring.
Dances—Oh Boy! Good work is being done by the hilarious harriers in their daily gallop across the terrain around the
village. These future long-distance runners nurmi from three to five leagues every afternoon and are thereby putting regular Leiderman physiques
on themselves. As ham craves eggs, as lovers desire the moonlight, and as a hobo longs for Miami, so does
The Davidsonian want a nicely-equipped office where work can be done quickly and efficiently. Oyez! Oyez! Davidson fresh. A Millsaps
rat has avowed his intention of refraining from shaving until Andy Gump puts the nickel-plated skids under the cruel and
crafty Carlos. This new-fangled system of grading has hit a good many students right between the optical organs. It is
not too late to improve the tone of that next report by parking up the studies a bit. FREE RIDES
Since there are many people in the surrounding vicinity who are kind enough to pick up Davidson boys and help
them on their way, it is most necessary that the boys do not infringe on their kindness and cause them
to lower their estimation of the college and Davidson boys in general. Several travelers have made complaints of late, that
the Davidson boys do not seem to appreciate a ride in the least and have not the least consideration in
taking care of the car while they are riding, or help them if a puncture or any other misfortune happens
while they are riding. Remember, while you are riding that the car is another’s property and you are his guest
and treat it and him as such. GOOD ENGLISH In the State Technician there appears an editorial concerning the laxity
of correctness in spoken English around the environs of that college. If the language they use there is in a
more deplorable condition than that purveyed from mouth to mouth in this neighborhood, we would disdain to hear it. The
editorial referred to, told of a hash-house council in which every member who slashed the king’s English was called down
in no uncertain terms. The correcting was done in good spirit of course, but the results arising therefrom, were productive
of much good. At least an interest was aroused and that is half the battle at times. One has only
to eavesdrop for ten minutes in any group of students who freely discuss things to find out that grammar is
used in every form but the right one, and words are employed in constructions far from their original meaning and
connotation. It might not matter so much around the campus, but the big business man, the newspaper owner, or the
merchant whom you will go to tomorrow for a job, will judge you more than you think by the expressions
and language you use. Your employers and those with whom you come in contact with in later life will certainly
grade you upwards if you use good, wholesome, English: not stilted and unnatural but free from inane slang and time-worn
expressions that have become frayed with long use. A little attention paid to the improving of one’s speech will be
a valuable investment to any college man. We cannot all be like Will Rogers and get away with any kind
of talk. The animosity that is so prevalent among the fraternities at many schools in the state and in the
south seems to be entirely lacking among the social orders here at Davidson. During the rushing season and especially just
preceding Bid Day at many institutions, fraternity men refuse to speak and almost come to blows over the freshmen that
are being rushed and bid by other fraternities. There is nothing of this nature at Davidson, if the fraternities do
not happen to pledge all the men they bid, they take it in a gentlemanly manner and do not create
a dissension that is so common in many places. THE WILDCAT Hats off to Mr. Wildcat. The feline gentleman who
has been under the careful mentorship of Charlie is now to bask in the limelight. A movement is being undertaken
this week to start the campaign for raising funds for our friend’s new home. Professor Wachter has kindly consented to
give another Kipling recital to start the ball rolling; or in other words, it is believed that the proceeds from
this entertainment will supply the necessary funds. It is planned to take the cat right out in the middle of
the campus where everyone may see. The enlarged quarters will no doubt make the life of our mascot a happier
one. We hope that a good, snappy name is chosen, one that reflects the college spirit, and will lead the
fighting cats to victory. The Soph and the Junior-Senior debates which will be held this fall will be good preparation
for the varsity debates which will be held next spring. The Juniors and Seniors will debate the question of the
World Court. Minor Chords AUTUMN DUSK Wraith-like mist from smouldering leaves Arises acrid into air, To fan a saffron flame
that burns Like incense for a virgin's prayer. Far voices fade into the dusk And distant fires awaken, gay; The
croon of drowsy insectshush When childish forms come out to play. Fluttering leaves drift softly down As withered petals of
the rose, And down the street, a mother’s voice Calls, “Billee-ce,” as shadows close.
Frederick Smith, Open Forum

OUR FOSTER-MOTHERS
It is refreshing to remind ourselves as students in the midst of chronic muck-raking of the powers that be, that
there are at least two persons connected with the administration against whom our most careless student dare not express his
scorn. Think of it—two persons before whom even the ego of the younger generation of Davidson bows in respect and
esteem—an incomparable compliment.

It is only meet that these two should be symbols of motherhood—an ideal to which the boys of the collegiate
caste forever profess their allegiance. The mother-warden of the infirmary and the mother-matron of the dormitories hold a secure place
in the affection of their apparently careless protégés. Why this singular reverence and esteem? Perhaps silvery gray hair, kind tender
eyes, gentle words, and sincere hearts are emblematic of One back home. Perhaps even the frivolous collegian discerns instinctively who
are heart-friends to every boy. Perhaps it is the desire for maternal affection which lingers in the most masculine heart.
More probably, all these elements contribute to the elevation of these two friends above the ordinary to a pedestal. Unselfish
and ill-requited service will always strike a tender chord in the hearts of Davidson men.

It is thus with pride and affection that Davidson students offer their whole-hearted admiration and appreciation to these two members
of the nobler sex—our foster-mothers.
—SENTOR.

CAROLINA-DAVIDSON CLASSIC
The grasp of a championship is almost within our reach. Go to bed thinking of this. Get up talking about
it. Don't for an instant let the thought of defeat enter your mind. A loyal student body and a fighting
team make a combination that cannot be downed. Let’s direct our attention whole-heartedly to the great classic to be played
on Emerson Field Saturday. Much has been said this fall of our fighting eleven. Much has been written of our
championship aspirations. Is all this talk to be entered under the column of propaganda? Shall the old Red and Black
fall once more to Tar Heel’s stride? We say no.

The two teams are more evenly matched than they have been for years. Just a portion of that Wildcat spirit
is what will turn the balance in our favor. Fellows, let's be there. Let us put our team at the
head of North Carolina football teams. It’s within our power, shall we do it?
—SPORTY.

CHEERS AND JEERS
There has been something sadly lacking in the spirit of the student body during the organized cheering of the last
few games in which the Davidson team has engaged. In all the old hackneyed yells, which everyone who has ever
attended a Davidson game has heard a thousand times, there seems to be little of the Davidson spirit which the
cheer-leaders have attempted to introduce, but the new ones have apparently failed dismally. The old “Hacka-racka booma-lacka” yell is good
enough in its place, but when it is used over and over again in the same game it loses much
of its spirit.

Davidson needs some exceedingly new yells, and some that the whole student body will learn. At the last game, the
cheering was very weak. For a few minutes did the student body yell and back its team as it should.
The people in the grandstands opposite noticed it first and it was not until then that the students realized that
they had not been doing their duty. But they awoke for only a moment or two and then drowsed back
into their insipid attitude. It is true that the entire student body was not present in Charlotte, but there were
enough there to make plenty of noise if they had only had the proper spirit.

Whether the cheer-leaders have become a little less spirited on account of the students, or whether the students have taken
their attitude from the cheer-leaders, it is not certain. But it is certain that the Davidson students are not cheering
as they used to do. Game after game, the cheers seem to be the same monotonous repetitions. There is the
usual “fifteen” for the opponents, then “long Davidson, Monk and Tex,” then “split hi, Cap'n Black.” This is the regular
program, then there is a little variation as the substitutions are made. When this same menu is presented every game,
the students and everyone in hearing distance wish for a little variety. We realize that new cheers are rare and
not easily composed, but certainly out of a student body of six hundred men a few new cheers could be
made up, or old cheers adopted to Davidson. It is hoped that the student body will take a more active
interest in the organized cheering, and show that not only the Wildcat team has that ol’ Davidson spirit, that has
such a reputation, but also the student body has as much or even more of that spirit than the team.
—BEEFEM.

Branch likes:
1. N. C. C. Girls.
2. Loud sweaters.
3. N.C. C. W. girls.
4. Pullman coaches.
5. Long walks with girls.
6. Press conventions.
7. N.C. C. W. girls.
8. Strip poker.
9. Long walks with girls.
10. Chesterfields.
11. N.C. C. W. girls.

Dumb Dora has a twin brother; he looked under the front seat of a Packard for the gas tank.

NUMBER 2746894657
The boy stood on the burning deck, The flames about him did roar. He took a cake of Ivory soap,
And washed himself ashore.

PARLOR FOOTBALL
The football game was over And at the parlor grate A maiden and a long-haired youth Were lingering rather late.
They talked of punts and drop-kicks, But found it rather tame, Till Cupid put his nose guard on And butted
in the game. Quoth he, it’s rather funny If I don’t arrange a match. So he then lined up the
couple And made them toe the scratch. The youth was growing nervous Neath the weight of newfound bliss, And he
rather thought the scrimmage Should end up with a kiss. He charged upon the center, He tackled left and right,
And the way he held that chair for downs Was simply out of sight. He next tried osculation, Just an
amateur affair, But lost it on a fumble And, instead, it struck the air. Then, as he landed on her
ear We heard the maiden say, You're penalized for holding, Jim, likewise for off-side play. With teeth set he tried
another, This time succeeded fine, For he scored an easy touchdown On the crimson two-yard line. And as they sat
there by the grate Communing soul to soul, The parlor door swung open And her father kicked the goal.
—Ex.

“Don’t pick on me,” said the uke, “I’m all unstrung.”

Kelly said the girl got chilly so he made her a coat of arms.

The young man went in and showed his diploma, and the manager welcomed him and gave him a job as
assistant manager at a salary of $200 a week with a bonus of ten shares of stock in the company.

Joyner went into the restaurant and carefully studied the menu, while the waiter stood patiently waiting for his order. “Waiter,”
he finally said, “I have only fifteen cents; what would you suggest?” The waiter removed the menu card, and said,
“Another restaurant.”

One protector of law and order belonging to the “pride of Charlotte” was stationed at the game Saturday at Wearn
Field. He looked at one of R. O. T. C. boys and asked this: “Why does that fellow out there
call so many numbers that don’t match those on the players' sweaters?”

Brooks Sloan takes the silk-lined cigar for concentration. Two Sundays in succession, he has gone riding with a girl, and
had a wreck; he didn’t see a Packard in front of him last week, and kept going—smash. It took fourteen
stitches to put his face together again.
—KABLE.
