Don't forget Prof. Carl Wachter’s Kipling Recital Tuesday Night

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 3, 1925

Attend this recital by Kipling’s foremost interpreter, and help the Wildcat Fund

No. 12

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates Thirteen New Candidates In Shearer Friday Night

Four Students and Nine Alumni Will Be Received—Doctor Mack to Speak

The Gamma Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, the leading scholastic fraternity of the country, will have its public and secret
initiations tomorrow night beginning at 7:00 o'clock. At this time nine prominent alumni of Davidson and four Seniors will be
taken in this honorary society. Dr. C. R. Harding, who is head of the local chapter, has arranged an attractive
program for the public exercises to be held in Shearer Hall at 8:00 o'clock. Dr. Harding will preside and Dr.
Edward Mack, professor at the Union Theological Seminary, at Richmond, Va., is to deliver the address of the evening. The
speaker will be introduced to the audience by Dr. W. R. Grey, professor of Latin here at Davidson. Dr. Mack
has been heard by Davidson students on several occasions, and will be remembered as an interesting speaker and an orator
of some note.

The program that has been decided upon includes the secret ceremonies in the faculty room of Chambers building at 7:00,
the public exercises mentioned above in Shearer Hall and a banquet given by the local members in honor of the
initiates and others who have been taken by Phi Beta Kappa in previous years. Dr. John L. Douglas has been
selected as toastmaster and has announced several prominent men as speakers of the occasion. Included in the number who will
deliver after-dinner talks are: Dr. Alexander Sprunt, ’75, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charleston, S. C.; A. M.
Fraser, '76, of the First Church of Staunton, Va.; Dr. R. F. Kirkpatrick, '97, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church
of Anderson, S. C.; and A. H. Hollingsworth, a member of the Senior class of Davidson.

Phi Beta Kappa is the oldest fraternity in the country, being founded at William and Mary College, in the latter
part of the eighteenth century. In the beginning it was purely a social organization, later being changed to an honorary
fraternity, member- (Continued on page 2)

Five Colleges Send Men To National Fraternity Meeting on Local Campus

Wildcat Eleven Flashes Greatest Form as Duke is Defeated 26-0 in Final Game

Gamma Sigma Epsilon Chapter Here Host to Fraternity Last Week—Exposition Planned

Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national honorary chemical fraternity, held its biennial convention in the hall of the chapter Thursday and Friday,
November 26th and 27th. Delegates from five of the six chapters were present, the chapter at Johns-Hopkins being the only
one not represented. Matters of routine business occupied the attention of the convention most of the time. It was brought
out that one new chapter—at the University of Alabama—had been installed since the last convention. Definite steps toward expansion of
the fraternity were planned, and it is hoped that several new chapters will soon be added. There are now six
chapters located at Johns-Hopkins University, University of Florida, University of Alabama, N. C. State College, Auburn, and Davidson.

The first session on Thursday evening was devoted to organization of the convention, appointment of committees, certification of delegates, and
election of convention officers. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle was elected chairman of the convention and J. M. Appleby recorder. The
officers’ reports were then given and considered by the convention. The delegates were W. H. Bradley, of N. C. State;
E. L. Jones, of the University of Alabama; E. F. Williams, of Auburn, and J. M. Appleby, of Davidson. Besides
these the convention was composed of two grand officers, Dr. H. B. Arbuckle and Dr. W. H. Thies, both of
Davidson. Reports from the various chapters showed a remarkable interest being taken in the work of Gamma Sigma Epsilon in
the various institutions. (Continued on page 7)

Seniors to Place Stone Benches On Davidson Campus

By deciding on their class gift before the half-way mark of the first semester, the Senior class has set a
precedent that is no doubt the best plan. Stone benches, carefully designed and handsomely engraved, were the final decision of
the Seniors. These benches are to be designed by a well-known architect and are to be placed at various spots
of advantage about the campus. The seats are to be engraved with the class numeral, '26, and are being made
of the best stone obtainable. (Continued on page 7)

Dramatic Club Present Three One-Act Plays Before Christmas Holidays

Will Have Opportunity of Seeing One of Doctor Erwin’s Own Plays

The Davidson College Dramatic Club has announced through its president, C. Frederick Smith, the presentation of three one-act plays to
be given before the Christmas holidays. The tryouts for parts have been completed and rehearsal has begun under the direction
of Prof. E. J. Erwin, who as the director of the club has supervised the staging of its members’ plays
for several seasons past.

The first of the three plays is the work of Professor Erwin, entitled “A Little Bit of Bleeding,” a drama
of Revolutionary days, with its setting in the mountains of North Carolina. The second of the triad is a comedy
by Fred Smith, “Tailor-made,” which depicts a reconciliation between two lovers, effected through the kindly assistance of an old tailor.
Another of the small town characters is a Confederate veteran that injects no little humor into the play. The third
of the group is a fantastic study of a scientist and his conflict with the superstitions of an idol-worshipping race
and of his ultimate triumph. It is called, “The Conqueror of the Gods.” The exact date of the presentation of
these plays has not been definitely decided. (Continued on page 2)

Thanksgiving

As the final shades of twilight crept over the green turf of Richardson Field, and devoted students carried scrappy Wildcats
off the field of conquest and honor, Father Time dropped the final curtain on eight doughty Davidson heroes and the
1925 football season. The season was brought to a close most fittingly with this last victory over Duke, which in
itself was a concrete summary of the Wildcats’ successful season. Rising to the heights of glory and success early in
the season with a tie with Wake Forest, who were fresh from a victory over Carolina, the Wildcats continued in
their winning stride through the season, losing only once or twice in minor games to mediocre playing. Although the real
height of success, a victory over Carolina, was not reached, the Davidson team showed wonderful coaching and excellent teamwork throughout
the season.

Fassifern Leader Speaks at Vespers

Dr. J. R. Sevier made a very interesting and impressive address at the “Y” vesper service Sunday night. Dr. Sevier
is president of the Fassifern School for Girls, located at Hendersonville, and also operates Camp Greystone for Girls. He has
been pastor of churches at Lynchburg, Va., Alexandria, Va., and Augusta, Ga., serving in the latter church for 14 years.
Dr. Sevier said that there is a question that is often asked, “What is that in thine hand?” The text
chosen by Dr. Sevier was the first five verses of the fourth chapter of Exodus.The coaches were able to try
out all their scrubs and find their real worth. On the following Saturday, Wofford’s strong team was defeated by the
same score as the preceding year, 7 to 0.

Wake Forest came to Charlotte the following Saturday, hoping to beat the Wildcats by anywhere from three to 21 points.
In the first six plays, they had pushed over a touchdown, and the game seemed to be theirs. But the
Wildcat team made one of the most remarkable comebacks of the year, made a touchdown on pure football, tied the
score, and outplayed the Baptists the rest of the game. The next week, the reserves and the coaches were able
to try out all their scrubs and find their real worth.

FELLOWS! The last drive for funds to support Warren Cox, at Hangchow College, is to be put on the nights
of December 8 and 9. The students subscribed over a thousand dollars a year for the past two college sessions,
and it is our duty, as loyal Davidson men, to do the same or even better this year. I am
calling on you, in the name of the Y.M.C.A. We want and need the support of every man at Davidson
to contribute heartily. Those serving on the central committee for the raising of these funds are A. M. Hillhouse, A.
H. Hollingsworth, Jr., Willard Keerans, and K. D. Witherspoon. Davidson men, give these fellows your hearty support!

H. L. SHAW, JR.
Chairman Mission Fund.

Hangchow Fund to Start in Student Body Next Week

The drive for the Hangchow fund will be held on the 8th and 9th of December. The money which is
raised during this drive goes for the support of Warren Cox, who graduated from Davidson in the class of '24
and is now Professor of Chemistry in Hangchow Christian College. H. L. Shaw is in charge of this work on
the Y.M.C.A. cabinet, and on the committee to work with him are Hayden Hollingsworth, Willard Keerans, I. D. Witherspoon, and
A. M. Hillhouse. Willard Keerans is treasurer of the fund this year in place of Jos. M. Garrison, who has
had that job for the past two years. Each year a drive is put on for money for the support
of Warren, and for the two years which have passed since he left, they have raised the money in full.
These men who have the work on their hands for this year urge that all of the Davidson men keep
this in mind and have their minds made up to help as much as they can when the time comes.

Hangchow Christian College is chartered.

(Continued on page 6)

Glee Club Renders Initial Showing

The Davidson College Glee Club made its first appearance of the season when they made their annual trip to Mooresville,
Friday night, November 27. The club has been working very hard under the leadership of Woodrow Wilson and Mrs. Coral
H. Baker, of Charlotte, this year, and considering that the Mooresville performance was the first one, things went off very
nicely. The program was excellently arranged and consisted of several choruses, two numbers by the Symphony Orchestra, two appearances of
the Jazz Orchestra, a solo by Caligan, and two appearances of the Davidson Quartet. The Jazz Orchestra, under the excellent
tutelage of B. T. Crayton, is an excellent organization and deserves much credit for whipping this band of musicians into
such excellent shape at such an early date. There are several more men in the orchestra this year than were
members last year, and of course, the volume is increased by these additions as well as new pieces. The Jazz
Orchestra was going great so far this year.

Hendrix and Dick Grey Run Wild as Davidson Ends Season in Blaze of Glory

WELLS SCORES FIRST

Captain Black leads one great march down the field for a touchdown—Grigg plays well.

Six men of the class of '26, playing their last game for the Davidson Wildcats, ended their football careers in
a blaze of gridiron glory by helping to defeat Duke University, 26 to 0, on Thanksgiving. The thin red line
of Davidson, composed of seven scrapping players, playing on its own home field, completely repulsed the onslaughts of the Blue
Devils when those hefty Methodists threatened to score, and by flashy and scintillating teamwork, scored four touchdowns against a heavier
foe, thus placing Davidson in a tie with Wake Forest for second State honors.

The 3,000 spectators, sitting under a chill and gray November sky, rose to their feet many times during the progress
of that afternoon as one brilliant and sensational play after another was unraveled by the Wildcats. The meteoric flashing and
running of Jim Hendrix, the easy and evasive sidestepping of Dick Grey, the steady plunging of Captain Black, Fred Griggs’
line work for the Blue Devils—all this brought cheers and shouts of approbation from the supporters and Duke alike. For
it was a stiffly contested affray throughout. Not once did the men from Durham let down in their effort to
top the ever-increasing score of the Wildcats. Davidson scored each of their touchdowns in the first three quarters, adding an
extra one in the second quarter when Dick Grey twisted and squirmed through the whole Duke team.

(Continued on page 8)

Commencement Days to be Called “June Week”

Seniors Make Wise Change as Greater Social Occasion is Planned

June Week will be the official name for the four days, May the 30th and 31st, and June the 1st
and 2nd, during which commencement will be held this year, according to a vote taken in a Senior class meeting
on Monday morning, November the 30th. The class of '26 has passed a resolution to make their commencement bigger and
better in every way than those which have preceded and have already begun by changing the name, appointing committees, and
making plans. In many of the universities, commencement is the most popular season of the year, when great numbers of
alumni flock back to their alma mater and when the students have their most important social events. Recently Davidson has
lacked this zest and enthusiasm, which did exist in former years, and the Senior class is going to make an
effort to bring it back and in so doing to start a precedent. The social side will be emphasized. Plans
have already been made but will not be definitely announced until later. The added attractions of June Week will incur
added expense which the class expects to meet with the receipts from special entertainments to be given in the spring.
Among these entertainments will be included one or more Glee Clubs from women’s colleges in the vicinity.

The June Week committee is as follows: D. G. Wilson, chairman; R. W. Graves, J. W. Anderson, T. S. Baker,
H. L. Shaw, C. F. Monk, A. S. Robinson, M. M. Teague, G. F. Laird, E. A. O'Neal, C. E.
Houston, and the president of the class, R. B. Parker, ex-officio.

(Continued on page 7)
