THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1925

— WILDCAT DOPE —

Carolina Match Closes Wrestling Season Here

Four Out of Six Meets Won by Davidson—Split in College Clashes

With the conclusion of the last event of the wrestling meet between Carolina and Davidson here Saturday night, the curtain
was rung down on another successful wrestling season at Davidson. Competing in six matches, the Wildcats won four of the
six, losing one match to the Navy and the other to the strong V.P.I. team. The Davidson team won decisively
from Concord Y twice, once from State, and the remaining one last Saturday night to Carolina.

At the beginning of the season, the team journeyed over to Concord, where they defeated the Concord Y team 30-0.
Several weeks later, a return match was held at Davidson and the Y team was defeated again, this time by
the score of 30-5, there being one more event on the program here. Beginning their northern trip, the Wildcat grapplers
defeated the strong N.C. State team by the score of 11-6. This was the first match of the collegiate season
and it was also on foreign territory. At Annapolis, the team lost to the Navy by the score of 27-0.
This was considered a very favorable showing, taking into consideration the strong team of the Navy and the fact that
they had turned their other opponents back by large scores.

Returning home, the Davidson team met the strong squad from V.P.I. and was defeated by them 17-6. This was a
much closer match than the score indicates, with practically all of the matches having to be decided in extra periods.
In the final match of the season last Saturday night, Davidson defeated the Carolina mat men 14-11. The match was
close and undecided until the last match was over.

While not quite as auspicious a season as the one last year, the team made a most excellent showing, especially
considering that three of the mainstays of last year's team were missing this year. The new men showed up well,
and with the fine showing of the old men, Davidson enjoyed one of her most successful wrestling seasons. Too much
credit for this showing cannot be given to Captain Weems, who through sacrifice and hard work has been able to
develop such teams for Davidson in the past. Giving unstintingly of his time, he has been with the team all
season, showing them the finer points of the game and getting the maximum amount of work from them. It is
to be hoped that Captain Weems will be able to devote more of his time to the teams in the
future, and that he may have the success with them that he enjoyed while he was at West Point.

The following is the record of the team for the past season:
Davidson 30, Concord Y 0
Davidson 30, Concord Y 5
Davidson 11, N.C. State 6
Davidson 0, Navy 27
Davidson 6, V.P.I. 17
Davidson 14, Carolina 11

VOLUNTEER BAND HEARS DR. PORTER ON SUNDAY

The Volunteer Band held its weekly meeting Sunday morning in the gym, with a smaller number than usual attending. Red
McAlpine led the devotional exercises and then introduced the speaker of the morning, Dr. W. L. Porter, who gave an
informal talk on India. Dr. Porter's talk was very interesting. He read several passages from one of the sacred books
of India, The Laws of Manu, describing various phases of Indian life in a most vivid manner. Next, the speaker
told of three great evils which play an important part in the life of this vast heathen empire. On going
into the details of these evils—Formalism, The Caste System, and the Subjection of Women—he showed that in order to successfully
win these people to Christ, the missionaries must sympathize with them and understand their systems of belief. Dr. Porter stressed
the importance of missionaries studying the conditions and endeavoring to be sympathetic toward the people they are endeavoring to save,
as this will greatly aid them in their work.

Hard Games Wind Up Fresh Season

Although losing the last four games of the season on a trip through Piedmont Carolina, the Freshmen basketball quint finished
the 1925 season with some great playing and a smoothly working team. From the first day's practice, the lack of
good forward material was noticed by the coach and that has throughout the year been the margin of victory for
the opposing quints. However, Coach Rawson developed the fastest passing team in the State according to reports, and in Brown
and Harrison had quite a defensive combination.

The first five games, played with high schools of this vicinity, were easily won. The first game of the season
was with Long Creek, who went down to defeat before the shooting of the Wildkittens to the score of five
to thirty. The next team, the Senior Saveds of Charlotte, bowed to the Yearlings with a score of forty to
twenty-four. The next team to fall in line was the fast quintet from Concord High School, which were swept away
to the score of twenty-eight to thirteen. Next to fall were Mooresville and Cornelius, with scores of thirty-one to nineteen
and thirty-one to sixteen respectively.

The first game played on the trip was with Oak Ridge Institute, which required an extra five minutes of play,
during which the Freshies bowed for the first time to twenty-nine to twenty-one. From there, the team went to Wake
Forest and then to North Carolina State, where at each place, Davidson tasted defeat by twenty-eight to twenty-five and thirty-one
to twenty-four respectively. The season closed in Durham where the first-year basketeers bowed before the Duke University quint, 31-23. The
Young Bucks thus won the championship of North Carolina.

The following is the team which Coach Rawson finally sent against the opposing clubs:

First Team
Milner
Mauldin
McColgan
Weld
Wilson
Upton (Guard)
Harrison
McAulay
Brown
Hall

Substitutes
Left Forward
Left Guard

STUDENT DELEGATES (Continued from page 1)

that all those who were doubtful of the value of mission work would have been convinced. After a song, Harry
Price was introduced. The impression that many have of missionary work is simply the preaching of the Gospel in foreign
lands; even though this is one of the greatest things, there is something deeper. The heathen must be convinced that
Christ is their friend. The work goes into the fields of industry, politics, and social standards. Foreigners, he stated, had
the same idea of us that we have of them, and they pray for America just as we pray for
them. He quoted the statement that one thing wrong with our religion is that we have allowed materialism to get
the upper hand because some of the learned men of the country argued against Christianity. He showed how friendship with
Jesus Christ was necessary and that without this we have no religion. Heathen who worship their gods and live a
clean, moral life are as good as those who claim to be Christians and do not know Christ as a
friend. He told of the hard test for Christianity, a giving up of fame or money, a fight against criticism,
forgetting selfish ambitions, and giving all one has for it. He laid stress on daily prayer and faith in prayer,
quoting Speer. J. S. Gray rendered a violin solo at the beginning of the service followed by the scripture reading
by Tag Guiton, who also attended the convention. Monk led in prayer.

Wildkittens Lose Four Combats on State Trip

Great Foul Shooting and Passing Features Play—Work of Brown and Harrison Excels

The scrappy Wildkitten quintet returned to the hill Friday morning after suffering defeats at the hands of Oak Ridge varsity,
Wake Forest, N.C. State, and Duke Fresh quints. Although Coach Rawson's charges tasted defeat in all the four games they
played, theyput up a game, tight fight in each encounter. As usual, the whole team, with the exception of Milner,
was off color in its shooting ability, and it was this important deficiency that cost them all the four games
played. Time after time they missed completely shots that for them should have been easy “snow-birds.” However, during the whole
series of games, the Wildkittens completely out-passed their strong antagonists. Not only did the Fresh outclass their opponents in passing
but in the difficult art of shooting fouls. They caged no less than 44 of the 64 foul shots attempted,
for a “batting average” of about .680. This large number of points was sufficiently great to overcome the lead piled
up on the Kittens by the opposing teams.

Oak Ridge 29, Fresh 21
The first game of the series, played with Oak Ridge, resulted in a deadlock, the score at the end of
the allotted 40 minutes being knotted at 21 points. In the additional minutes period, the Oak Ridge crew piled up
a total of eight points and won the game by this margin. The defense weakened slightly during this time, allowing
the Oak Ridge boys to sew the affair up. Harrison, Milner, and McColgan played well for the Fresh, while Miller
and Hayworth were the bright lights for Oak Ridge.

Wake Forest 28, Fresh 25
In the second contest of the series, with Wake Forest, another close score resulted. The Baptists lost to the Fresh
by a count of 25-28. The opposing team, which was made up largely of Asheville High School stars, was strong
in every respect and excelled the Kittens in every department except those of passing and foul-shooting. McColgan and Brown were
the outstanding players for the locals.

N. C. State 31, Fresh 24
North Carolina State presented a strong aggregation to the young Presbyterians in Raleigh Wednesday night, where the locals were nosed
out 24-31. This game was fast and hard-played throughout. The score remained about even throughout the contest until the final
five minutes of play, in which State forged ahead to the comfortable lead of seven points. Milner, Brown, and Wilson
all put up creditable games for the D. C. Fresh, while Shirley, Spence, and Bremer were exceptionally aggressive for State.

Duke 31, Fresh 23
Not unlike the other games of the trip, the Duke game was hard-fought and fast. The resulting count was 23-31
in favor of the Methodists. The Durham lads, by defeating Davidson, won the yearling championship of the State. Brown and
Harrison played well for the local Fresh, while Brantley, Weaver, and Hartness showed up well for the Duke-ites.

Coach Clarence Rawson and manager Harlee Branch, Jr., were accompanied on the trip by the “first five,” composed of McColgan
and Milner, forwards, Wilson, center, Brown, and Harrison, guards. The following substitutes made the trip: Weld, Mauldin, Upton, McAuley, and
Joe Hall. Weld and Mauldin were used in two of the games and made good showings.

Davidsonian cross-word puzzles are proving a great success! In each issue appears a new cross-word puzzle. At least two persons
are interested, the originator and the solver. In a short while, we will be able to see the increasing knowledge
of students there, for cross-word puzzles do increase one’s vocabulary, they say—The Salemite.

Capt. George H. Weems, P.M.S. & T. of the Davidson R.O.T.C. Unit, represented the college at the meeting of the
Association of R.O.T.C. Colleges of the Fourth Corps Area in Atlanta, February 14th. The association convened in the library at
the area headquarters. Most of the colleges sent the president or dean as delegate. The remainder were represented by their
P.M.S. & T. Captain Weems reports that many timely topics were discussed by various persons present. One of the most
interesting of these subjects was: “Assuming there will be no more wars, is the R.O.T.C. a valuable asset in your
institution? In what ways? Can it be made more valuable—and how?” Dean C. M. Snelling, of the University of Georgia,
and Professor Littlejohn, of Clemson, took an especially active and instructive part in the discussion.

Oglethorpe is contemplating putting in the Honor System there. As proposed, the plan is almost identical with the one now
in operation at Davidson. Students will be required to take an oath that they will not, in any sense of
the word, do any cheating while in that college. The professors are “to play hands off,” and only back the
Student Council in all their work. The proposition was voted upon last Friday.

Two Touchdowns in Final Minutes Win for Blacks
Play of Arrowood Features as Blacks Win Hard Fight
Representing half of the Wildcat's Spring football squad, the Blacks defeated the Reds, taken from the other half, last Saturday
by a 14-0 score. Both counters were made in the last quarter when the Blacks rushed two markers over while
the Reds tried in vain to stop the rally. The first three quarters were scoreless and till the last period
the game was anybody's. Then the Blacks showed themselves the superior by putting the ball on the 20-yard line where
a try for a place kick was made. In the closing minutes of play, Bohanon scored by a blocked punt
and Arrowood, star of the Fresh squad, received a pass over the line. The playing of Arrowood was a feature
of the game and the kicking of Long and Grey was good. Nesbit distinguished himself by his pile-driving force when
crashing a line or running back punts.

Many substitutions were made during the game by both teams. Few of the substitutes got in much play though as
the game was mainly to get a line on the material that may be expected in the fall. The following
men got in the game: King, Currie, Crawford, Belk, Carter, McMillan, Wearn, Thompson, Taylor, Irwin, O’Neal, Turner, McConnell, Laws, Peterson,
Leggett, McEachern, Stewart, Simpson, Melton, Harmon, Farrell. The following lineup started:

Reds
Baker
Ritchie
Mitchell
Sims
Long
Rohanon
McMillan
Wells
Melton
Allen

Blacks
Arrowood
Pines
Green
J. Grey
Christian
Lincoln
O’Neal
Wilson
McComb
Nesbit
D. Grey

Due to the deficiency percentage of the colleges in the South, many applications to the War Department for the installation
of new R.O.T.C. units at the present time must go unheeded. A large number, however, have already established strong R.O.T.C.
units. In practically all of the Southern colleges, it was noted that the size of the R.O.T.C. has outgrown the
number of the military personnel. This is more true of Davidson and the University of Louisiana than any of the
others. Captain Weems asked that an additional officer be stationed with the Davidson unit next year in order to bring
the instructing staff up to the quota required for a post of this size. In this way, he believes that
the Davidson organization will be enabled to do even better work than it has been doing the past year.

Dr. M. L. Brittan, president of Georgia Tech, was elected president of the association for the ensuing term, with Dr.
C. M. Snelling as vice-president. At the conclusion of their business meeting, the delegates were entertained with a luncheon given
in the Ansley Hotel by Emory University.

Have you hooked yours yet? Hundreds of young fellows have already “got theirs.” But that’s no sign there’s not hundreds—yes,
thousands of them—left. And more coming in every day. Better drop in and pick out yours now so you'll get
the full season’s benefit out of it.

“AN ASSURANCE OF CORRECTNESS”
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
