THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

DAVIDSON STUDENTS VOTE
(Continued from page 1)

though no doubt she will be represented at Princeton by two or more students. One of the main purposes of
the conference will be to form a permanent organization of American students for the purpose of discussing topics of current
national import. The delegates will convene annually at institutions in various parts of the country for this purpose. Among the
prominent men who have heartily endorsed the conference are Senator William Borah, Vice-President Dawes, and Chief Justice William Taft.

CASHION’S CAFE
The best eats and the quickest service in town.
---COME IN---
Open till 12:00 p.m. except Sunday.

J. L. DORAN
Plumbing and heating.
Hot water, vapor, steam
ARCOLA SPECIALTY
Free estimates gladly given.
Repair work
“Service that serves”
Phone 29
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Warren Cox, who is supported by Davidson students in his chosen work in China. A campaign has been in progress
throughout the week which has resulted in sufficient funds being raised among the student body to support our China representative
for another year. The letter follows:

This summer was a good excuse for a grand tour. Jacob Mall, a short-term teacher at Union Girls’ School in
Hangchow, and myself, hit it off together to catch a sight of the big places in the East. In the
States we couldn't hardly have traveled together for six weeks without having been brought up before a police court, but
in far-away China, it never even seemed strange at all, till the trip was all over. Anyway, we had a
big time. Left Shanghai on the 1st of July and spent two weeks in Peking. Peking is vastly different from
anything else in China—everybody seems to think himself just a little better than the rest of China—even to the rickshaw
man and coolie on the street. Things move slowly, lazily, just as one would expect in the capital of a
state, controlled from anywhere else except Peking. But if you have money that you want to hold on to, don't
go to Peking! The marvelous Peking rugs, the embroidery, the cloisonné, the silverware, the mandarin coats, the beads; why, money
just slips through one’s fingers without one knowing it—if one has any money. And then the Summer and Winter Palaces,
the Temple of Heaven, the Forbidden City, the Great Wall; all are magic works, and you can't describe them. You
must see them.

From Peking we headed further north, to Peitaiho. We spent a week there enjoying the surf bathing and the “night-caps.”
But after a week of indolence, the “road” called again, and again we answered with our heads still turned north.
This time we landed as far as Mukden, and there turned ourselves over to the Japanese. They put us in
a good American Pullman and headed us south for Korea. After another 24 hours, we landed in Seoul, the capital
of Korea, where we spent a couple of days looking at inlaid mother-of-pearl tables, and squeezing our pocketbooks!

South again to Fusan, and a big 12-hour ferry across to Shimonoseki, Japan! In Japan, the trains arrive on time
and leave on time. And there is a train for wherever you are going, about every hour. We spent two
days in Miyajima, in a Japanese inn; that is, Jake and I did—the girls decided it would be better if
they kept to a foreign style. We had some rare experiences, some of which I'll tell you when I get
back to the States. After Miyajima, it was forward again to Nikko, some 36 hours distant, the city of temples
and cryptomeria trees. Nikko is really an entrancing spot and one would be almost content to settle down and spend
the rest of one’s dotage among its antique shops and wooded hills. Our exchequer was fast being depleted, so we
hastened back to Tokyo, and found a cheap hotel for three days—having one look, though, at the Imperial Hotel. Tokyo
isn't nearly as romantic as the story books make one believe—it’s a modern city in almost every way. Business rushing
and banging hither and yon, all circling around the Imperial Palace grounds which stand in the middle of the city,
protected from all vulgar contact by huge walls, and a deep moat, forbidding in the extreme; seemingly having its walls
placarded with, “None may enter save the elect.” We, not being of the elect crew, boarded ship at Kobe for
Shanghai and had a fine trip of two days across to China. We left the two ladies in Tokyo, as
they were going on back to Honolulu. Broke? It was really pitiful, but we managed to borrow ten from a
chance acquaintance on the boat, which put us through in fine shape. But now it’s school again, and I'm up
to my neck with work. Am teaching, or trying to teach, five courses in Chemistry andtake charge of athletics, too.
It’s some job. I have Middle School Chemistry, College General, Qualitative, and Industrial, so that keeps my nose to the
grindstone pretty well. The students are behaving fine after all the trouble and are studying hard, except in Peking, where
they are still trying to run the government. Some measures recently tried to break up the Tariff Conference, composed of
representatives from all the foreign powers, in order to make the Conference adopt what they desired. That's the way to
get results in China apparently, but I don’t imagine that such methods will influence much. Our students, though, are studying
hard. The other day we had an interesting happening: one of the students went down to Shanghai and bought a
bunch of athletic supplies, among which were three dozen tennis balls, in England. The students, being rabid about the enforcement
of the British boycott, were indignant and insisted that the balls be exchanged. Unfortunately, they had been opened and their
exchange was rather doubtful. I suggested to them that they have a bonfire and burn them to show their contempt
of England, and be patriotic enough to stand the financial loss! That didn’t take very well, though, so after about
a month of see-sawing, the man who had bought them made a special trip to Shanghai and had them exchanged
for cheaper German goods. By the time this reaches the States, the football season will be over, and to date,
I've heard from but one game! We’re a long way away. I hope it’s been, or is being, a successful
season. I tried my best to get some interest in American football here, but the boys haven't reached that stage
in their education yet.

With best wishes for a Merry Christmas and a successful beginning for 1926,

Fraternally,
W. M. Cox, Jr.

EIGHT STUDENTS GO
(Continued from page 1)

Lewis McColgan. Both of these speakers urged their listeners to play the game of life fairly and squarely, and their
words were received with enthusiasm. On Monday evening, Clanton Williams and Harllee Branch were heard by the members of two
Salisbury Hi-Y clubs. Over 50 high school students were in the audience, and they seemed impressed with the ideas presented
by the two speakers. The quartette was called on again for a number of selections. Later in the evening, the
quartette went to the special night school conducted for employed boys, and received much applause for their songs. This was
the first large delegation to have been sent out from Davidson this year, and their work at Salisbury has been
the occasion of much favorable comment.

College Glee Clubs to Form Southern Association

Those who are familiar with the influence and use of music in history, and all lovers of music, will be
interested in the movement which is on foot to form a Southern Association of Men’s College Glee Clubs. The South
Carolina Glee Club Association has issued by letter and press an invitation to all men’s colleges in the South which
have glee clubs to send representatives to Furman University, Greenville, S. C., in January of the coming year for the
purpose of forming a South-wide organization. The South Carolina Association has been in operation for several years and is a
proven success. The plan of the organization committee is to form a similar association in each state, with all the
state associations forming a southern association. The New York Musical Corporation has for several years been active, holding annually a
contest among the clubs of the larger universities of the north and east, and the winner of the southern contest
will have the privilege of entering this national contest each year. The New York Corporation is co-operating with the South
Carolina Association in forming a southern organization and will probably have representatives at the conference in January.

The purposes of the Southern Association will be: to create widespread interest in music among the people and colleges of
the South, to facilitate the annual holding of a state contest in each state, and a Southern contest by the
winners from the different states. Among other things, such an association serves to: Give non-athletic students opportunity to participate in
college life. Maintain a high standard of program for college glee clubs. Promote friendliness and fellowship between students of different
colleges. Create interest in cultural and general education. Give recreation of a worthy sort to thousands who would not otherwise
receive it. The contests are so planned as to take little additional time in preparation, and the songs can be
prepared along with the regular annual program for the club. The expenses of the clubs attending the contests are paid
by receipts from tickets sold. Maxie C. Collins, Jr., of Furman University, Greenville, S. C., who was president of the
South Carolina Association for '24-'25, is chairman of the organization committee, and is assisted by W. J. McGlothlin, Jr., of
the same school. Anyone desiring further information may receive it by communicating with either of the above-mentioned.

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries

Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

PILOT MOUNTAIN
NORTH CAROLINA

THE PILOT

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

NECKWEAR

The newest and smartest styles in gift neckwear—special holiday selections—bright or conservative colors. Unusual values.

$1.00

MEN’S SECTION
STREET FLOOR
