THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925

Surely you want to purchase your clothes from the firm who gives the best values? Then it is your duty
to look over WARREN’S line before buying elsewhere. When you have a suit tailored to your individual measurements you are
assured of a perfect fit. We tailor clothes exclusively for college men, from the best imported English woolens. A new
lot of these woolens will be on display MONDAY, the 23rd.

WARREN'S IMPORTING TAILORS
103 WEST

Easter will soon be here. Have you purchased that TUXEDO for the DANCES? If not, then let us fix you
up. Best tailored TUX with VEST for $40 up. Certainly, you want some color for the Easter wardrobe. Then come
and look over the largest assortment of neckwear you have seen.

MONDAY, MARCH 23
103 WEST
JACK CUNNINGHAM, Representative

CENTRAL HAT SHOP

Town News

Library News

The mother of Miss Katherine Mathews is visiting her this week. She is being entertained at the home of Mrs.
A. Currie.

NEW LIBRARY BOOKS

Famous Sculptors of America, by J. Walker McSpadden
“This book is not addressed to the art critic but to the general reader. Like the author's former book on
American Painters, it presents ‘close-ups’ of a group of artists in their studios or otherwise intimately engaged upon the work
which made them famous. It is not a treatise on sculptors, but a series of life stories of the sculptors
themselves. It is informal, chatty, and otherwise removed from the formal review.”

Salt Water Poems and Ballads, by John Masefield
“This is a new issue of the one volume of Mr. Masefield’s work which, in the opinion of many of
his admirers, contains the very best of his poems of the sea. It is illustrated with a large number of
pictures in color and in black and white by the well-known English marine artist, Charles Pears.”

Psychology and the Christian Life, by Rev. T. W. Pym
“Recent developments in the realm of the new psychology have called for a new statement of its application in the
field of Christian faith. This Rev. Mr. Pym has very ably and very completely done. It is not so much
speculative and theoretical as a practical treatment of the subject. We have here a pioneer book in the art of
technical elocution. It has also leanings toward a philosophy of expression that no other book written by an American has
presented.”—Moses True Brown, head of the Boston School of Oratory.

MILLER'S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing, Dry Cleaning, Pressing
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest, Oldest, Best

Miss Kalista Hood, who attends St. Mary's in Raleigh, is spending the spring holidays at home.

The Young Matron’s Club met on Monday afternoon at the home of Mrs. H. B. Elliot. Delicious refreshments were served.

Last Friday afternoon Mrs. E. J. Erwin held an informal tea in honor of the sister of Mrs. Daugherity, who
has been visiting here for the last week.

On last Friday evening the Senior C. E. Society gathered in the basement of the Presbyterian Church. Interesting and enlivening
games were played and thoroughly enjoyed by all until the refreshments were served, when all games were forgotten in the
contest to discover which one present was the best Eskimo. The prize will be awarded to Riggs’ McConnell at the
next social.

Again on Monday night the basement of the Presbyterian church was the scene of a joyful gathering. The Intermediate C.
E. Society held a most interesting program of games, songs, and stump speeches, by which the evening passed all too
soon. Delicious refreshments were served.

COURTESY OF FASHION PARK
To be Correct your Tie must be Striped
The Efird tie array! Color! Snap! The highlight of the season! Come in and select your own individual colors, for
they’re all here. $1.00 and $1.50. Main Floor Men’s Section

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

CALENDAR

THURSDAY—
7:15—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:15—Philanthropic Literary Society.

FRIDAY—
8:15—A Rudyard Kipling Recital by Prof. Carl Wachter.

SATURDAY—
2:30—High School Track Meet.
7:30—Movies.

SUNDAY—
10:15—Volunteer Band.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:15—“Y” Vesper Service.

MONDAY—
7:00—Court of Control.
9:30—Discussion Group Leaders.

TUESDAY—
7:15—Metrophilian Literary Society.
7:15—Pandemic Literary Society.

WEDNESDAY—
9:30—Bible Discussion Groups.of applying the new psychological methods in Christian life.” Orator’s Manual, by George L. Raymond. “It is undoubtedly
the most complete and thorough treatise on oratory for the practical student ever published.”—The Education Weekly, Chicago. “I consider it
the best American book upon oratory.”

The anthology issue of The Davidson College Magazine, which came off the press last Saturday, is the one purely literary
publication of the students for this year. It contains a wealth of poems, essays, and stories on widely varying topics
by about 20 different authors. In contrast to last year, when four numbers were published, this year the one number
will contain the choice works of the literary material submitted for publication. The editors selected six stories, nine essays, and
17 poems to appear in this anthology issue. It is the opinion of the students, who had copies of the
magazine delivered to them in their rooms Saturday night by Business Manager L. L. Deck and his assistants, that it
far surpasses any other similar publication put out in years. It is, as the word anthology signifies, a choice collection
of literary work.

First should be mentioned the poem "And You Shall Say," by E. P. O'Connor, which was published in Poets of
the Future, a collection of college verse published at intervals by The Stratford Co., Boston, Mass. The editor of this
collection gave honorable mention to three other poems, "As We See It," by P. M. Patterson; "A Wish For ’26,"
by C. F. Smith, and "The Sanctuary," by A. M. Martin, appearing in The Davidson College Magazine.

The six stories from the body of the magazine are true types of the short story art. A. F. Simpson,
in "The Last Shot," tells a story of the Old South with an appeal to lovers of its traditions and
history. It is written in a clear and vivid style. "Mr. Hyde Remodeled," a story by R. W. Walker, is
based on a double personality plot. It is a hard one to deal with, but Walker makes an interesting and
unusual story out of it. Criticism of Anthology Issue of the Magazine is Submitted by Covington W. Brown, in "The
Man Who Went Beyond," W. C. Deden, in "Omar," and H. C. Lawson, in "Worthless," have written stories of exceptional
merit.

The essays, some short and some long, are all good. However, "The Hummingbird," by R. T. Kimsey; "The Next War,"
by L. D. Wharton, and "A Ramble Through the Universe," by R. W. Graves, are of especial worth. "The Next
War" is a brief rebuke to America for having accepted the phrase “next war” as a fact. "The Hummingbird" shows
the author’s thorough knowledge of the bird’s habits and life and is interesting as a nature study. Although not as
readable to the general public as the other articles, "A Ramble Through the Universe" could not have been written but
by a student of astronomy and is worthy of careful reading.

The 17 poems interspersed among the stories and essays add greatly to the tone and interest of the magazine. Most
of these are short, the only one as long as a page being "A Moth That Would Seek a Star,"
by E. P. O'Connor. This is a fantasy of charm.

The Cap and Bells contains this year, instead of a collection of jokes, four humorous stories and seven poems, thus
raising the literary tone of the department. It is vastly more attractive and enjoyable than the former joke columns. "Touchdown,"
the only story which was claimed by its author among the four, is funny from beginning to end, due partly
to the local touch.

The editors and contributors have done well in publishing this magazine which should rank high in the collegiate literary world.
Credit should be given to L. L. Deck, the business manager, who now has the magazine on a sound financial
basis. He has this year paid off last year’s debt and has put out this issue without any deficit.

W. T. Covington.

Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU'LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

One question that always arises in the mind of every serious thinking college man is, “What am I going to
do after graduation or during vacation?” This is an important question, worthy of serious consideration. In a very definite way,
the life insurance business offers you the opportunity for success. In no field is there a greater chance for the
college man. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, PRESIDENT
H. B. GUNTER, Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.
