THEDAVIDSONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON | Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 8, 1925 No. 14

Dr. Hood Impresses All With a Fine Address In His Appearance at “Y”
Compared Tree and the Human Life in Realistic Manner

STRIKING ANALOGY
Said That Science and Religion Correspond and That Neither One Refutes Other

In his first appearance before the local Y.M.C.A. on last Sunday night, Dr. Fraser Hood made a very interesting talk,
using as his general theme an analogy between the Tree of Life and a human life. He took three texts,
one from the first book of the Bible, one from the last book, and the main text from Psalms 1:3.
All references, Genesis 2:9: “The tree of life also in the midst of the garden;” Revelations 22:2: “In the midst
of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there a tree of life,” and the
main text: “And he shall be like a tree,” had as their central thought The Tree of Life.

In developing his theme Doctor Hood stated that the man who had found religion in its entirety had found life.
The points in which man is like a tree were shown in a striking manner. For a tree to flourish
it must have its roots deep within the earth to receive nourishment from the soil. It must reach out into
the surrounding atmosphere to receive carbon dioxide, so necessary for its existence. These two sources, the earth and the atmosphere,
furnish the raw materials needed by the tree. The source from which the tree obtains power is from the sun.
It is the sunlight that causes the photosynthesis by coming into contact with the products from the soil and carbon
dioxide from the air. The most powerful agency in the life of the tree is from an external source, the
sun.

In drawing the parallelism between the life of the tree and the life of man, the speaker first brought to
the attention of the students the fact that man must have an economic foundation for his livelihood. It is the
Christian's duty to provide a living for his family, and to provide more than a bare sustenance. The teaching of
Paul that (Continued on page 7)

Wildcat Grapplers Will Meet Concord Saturday
Concord “Y” Seeks Revenge for the 30-0 Defeat Handed Her by Davidson

The first opportunity for the students of Davidson to see the wrestling team in action will be next Saturday night,
January 10th, when the Wildcat grapplers meet the team from Concord “Y” in a return meet. These teams met at
Concord on December 12th and the Davidson aggregation emerged as conquerors, 30-0. The meet next Saturday promises to be better
than the previous one. In the last meet Concord was handicapped by the absence of several of their best men.
They are expecting to put up a better fight next Saturday in the hope of wiping out the defeat received
at the hands of the Wildcats last month.

The Davidson team will in all probability be in better shape than in the previous meet but is still handicapped
by the lack of heavyweight and light-heavyweight material. Lindamood, last year’s captain and star heavyweight man, did not return this
year, and no one has been found to take his place. Vance, light-heavyweight man, is still out on account of
injuries received in football, and will probably not be in shape in time for the meet with the Navy in
February. There is still room on the team for any who can qualify, and Captain Weems requests that (Continued on
page 3)

Tennis Team Will Meet Leading Universities
Tentative trip for the tennis team in the spring, as tentatively announced by M. S. Beall, manager of the Davidson
tennis squad, has caused quite a stir of interest in the ranks of tennis enthusiasts during the past week. The
tentative schedule, showing matches with the leading teams in North Carolina, Virginia and Maryland, is said to be the most
extravagant ever drawn up for local netmen. The trip will start on April 13th, at Winston-Salem, with a match at
the Winston-Salem Country Club, and will end with the contest at Washington and Lee, April 25th. With the exception of
two pending matches, the schedule is complete, and includes matches for every day that the Davidson racqueteers are on the
road.

Four men will compose the team that will make the record-breaking tour, and unless new talent of an exceptional nature
is uncovered in the spring tournament, Davidson will be represented on the foreign courts by Harry Price, holder of the
North Carolina singles championship, captain of the Wildcat team, and one of Davidson's most brilliant players; M. S. Beall, manager
of the team and for a long time one of the Red and Black’s most spectacular netmen; Tom Staley, several
years a member of the team and winner of numerous matches; and James Trotter, diminutive star on the courts for
the past two years and a man who has proved his talents and ability in strenuous match-play. Manager Beall is
already (Continued on page 2)

Pandemic Debaters Frock Philanthropic Speakers
Pans Win Inter-Society Contests by Their Victory Over the Phi’s—Heated Arguments

At the finals of the Junior-Senior Inter-Society debate, held on the evening of December 17th, the Pandemic team, composed of
W. E. Hamilton, J. M. Garrison, and H. L. Shaw, was awarded the judges’ decision over their opponents who represented
the Philanthropic Society. The subject for debate was: “Resolved, That the proposed twentieth amendment to the Constitution of the United
States should be ratified.” The proposed twentieth amendment advocates legislation regarding child labor.

This Junior-Senior debate is an annual event among the four literary societies. Each society chooses three men to represent it
in the preliminaries. Two teams are eliminated in the semi-finals. The two remaining ones then meet for the purpose of
determining which society shall possess the alumni debating cup for the ensuing year.

Early in December the semi-finals were held. The Metrophilians debated the Pandemics, the latter winning by a four to one
decision, of the following judges: Professors Wachter, Porter, Foreman, and Currie, and Mr. Williams. The Philanthropics met the Eumeneans and
won the decision of two to one from these judges: Professors Brown and Goldiere, and Mr. Williams. In the finals
the Pandemics defeated the Philanthropics by a vote of two to one from the following men who acted as judges:
Rev. Mr. Laird, and Professors Fleagle and Porter.

The best speaker on each team was awarded a medal by his own society. The four men selected as being
the most deserving of this honor on their respective teams were: Ratchford, Bowie, Shaw, and Pullen. These men and their
team-mates appeared as contenders for the various societies as follows: Philanthropic: J. C. Burhington, Ratchford, and J. E. Holshouser. (Continued
on page 5)

Trinity Changes Name to Duke University
By Changing Name it Received Sum of Six Million Dollars

EXTENSIVE PROGRAM
Proposed Buildings Will be Finest in South—Signs of Great University

Fulfilling the one condition of Mr. Duke's bequest of $6,000,000 to the school, the trustees of Trinity College last week
agreed that the name should be changed to Duke University. The institution should be congratulated that it was broad-minded enough
to make this slight change in order to receive the benefits of the generous donation of Mr. Duke. The new
institution will remain under the same power as before, but will be built into a huge university that will in
time rival Yale and Harvard and other great universities of the North. This part of the South will soon rival
any section of the country along educational lines.

Work has already been begun on the building program. The Gothic style of architecture will be followed throughout in the
new buildings. Thus it will be necessary to change the exterior of some of the other buildings to fit in
with the Gothic style. The circular drive will be done awaywith, and instead, the drive will lead straight through the
campus to form a central avenue. Several old buildings will be torn down to make room for the new ones
that will conform with the architectural style of the rest. The whole array of buildings will harmonize with the surroundings,
and when the proposed building program is carried out, this place will rival any in the United States or abroad.
It will be worked out much along the lines that Princeton has used to make the latter one of the
most beautiful campuses anywhere. This institution bids fair to become the most influential in the entire South. With the great
endowment and the steady appropriation or allotment that will come in regularly each year, there will be no lack of
funds with which to maintain it. It is expected that more students will be attracted to Duke University, which will
soon rival the University in size and prestige. Davidson is glad for the good fortune of (Continued on page 5)

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

January 6th—Charlotte “Y” at Davidson.
January 9th—Duke University at Charlotte.
January 10th—Duke University at Davidson.
January 14th—Clemson at Davidson (pending).
January 17th—North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
January 20th—Elon at Davidson.
January 31st—Concord “Y” at Concord.
February 2nd—Duke at Durham.
February 3rd—Open.
February 4th—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
February 6th—Durham Elks at Davidson.
February 10th—Charlotte “Y” at Charlotte.
February 14th—Stetson University at Davidson.
February 17th—Georgia Tech at Charlotte.
February 18th—Guilford at Guilford.
February 19th—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
February 20th—Open.
February 21st—Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
February 23rd—Hampden-Sidney at Hampden-Sidney.
February 24th—Roanoke at Roanoke.
February 27th—Guilford at Davidson.
February 28th—Wake Forest at Davidson.

The Glee Club returned from its annual tour, showing the physical effects of a week's trip through the Carolinas and
Georgia. The club left here on December 10th in fine spirits, and upon its return, the following Tuesday, every member
reported a fine time throughout the trip. The tour was a success musically, a success socially, and taking into consideration
the proportion of the length of the trip to the number of concerts given, it is generally considered a financial
success also, although the club returned from its tour with a slight deficit. Wednesday afternoon, December 10th, the Glee Club
left in cars for Gastonia. After attending a banquet there given for the Wildcat football team, the boys gave a
splendid concert before a large and appreciative audience in the high school auditorium. Thursday, they traveled to Spartanburg, where they
were greeted by another large audience in the high school there. Extracts from the Spartanburg paper indicate that the concert
was a good one: “The repertoire of the college songsters was varied and comprehensive and included a number of popular
songs, which were well rendered... The Kiser Twins, black-faced comedians, offered a well-received selection of comic songs and instrumental numbers.
The Earnest Brothers were also received with approval.” The Converse girls turned out in large numbers to hear the concert.

Davidson Students Go To National Frat Conclaves

Atlanta, Richmond, and Philadelphia Places of Meetings of Three Big Fraternities

Conventions of three leading national collegiate fraternities, held during the Christmas holidays, were attended by a number of Davidson students,
who went as delegates to the national meets. The Richmond Annual Convention of Phi Gamma Delta convened for their seventy-sixth
Ekklesia, and seven members of the Davidson chapter were among the 450 Fijis present. In Atlanta, 400 Sigma Alpha Epsilon
members, including four members of the local chapter, gathered for their annual convention and were guests of various Atlanta members
of the fraternity at the Biltmore Hotel. Two members of the local chapter of Theta Upsilon Omega answered the roll
call at their national convention in Philadelphia.

Phi Gamma Delta

The seventy-sixth Ekklesia of Phi Gamma Delta was held at the Hotel Jefferson, Richmond, Va., on December 31st, January 1st,
2nd, and 3rd. The convention was attended by approximately 450 Fijis from the 66 active chapters of the fraternity and
the graduate chapters and associations throughout the country. Eleven alumni and six active members of the Davidson chapter were present.
The members of the active chapter at the convention were J. A. Lake, Jr., Frank R. Montgomery, R. W. Meas,
A. S. Jones, Jr., E. A. O'Neal, and W. Green. Dr. T. W. Lingle, faculty advisor, was also present at
most of the sessions. The chief social events were The Jamboree on the night of December 31st, and the Ekklesia
ball on the night of January 2nd. At this latter event, the Davidson chapter was sponsored by Miss Virginia Dunklee,
of Winston-Salem. The convention was officially ended on the night of January 3rd.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

The local chapter of Sigma Alpha Epsilon was represented at the recent bi-ennial convention held in Atlanta, Ga., by J.
R. Briggs. Other members of the local chapter present were (Continued on page 6)

Red and Black Cagemen Show Pep in Decisively 31-21 Score in Favor of Fighting Wildcats

FAST TEAMWORK WINS

Anderson and Staley Show Real Speed While Guards Well

Flashing forth with a speed and teamwork unseen heretofore this season, the Davidson basketball quint decisively defeated the Charlotte “Y”
team here Tuesday night by a 31-21 score. Starting from the very first of the game an offensive that swept
the visitors before them, the Wildcat five kept the lead throughout the entire game. Only once after the first few
moments did the Charlotte men even tie the score. Coming down to Davidson after five straight games from some of
North Carolina’s best quints and bowing to the University of North Carolina team by only a field goal margin, the
Charlotte team was doped to easily win over the Red and Black aggregation. However, the speed of the Wildcat team,
led by Anderson and Staley’s shots and Boggs and McConnell’s guarding, soon placed them in the lead which the Charlotte
team could by no means regain. With Anderson showing deadly accuracy under the baskets, the Davidson team was able in
the first half to forge steadily to an 18-14 lead as the gun fired. In the second period, Staley started
his brilliant work after going out in the initial period with an injury to his eye. His comeback was remarkable
and his and the entire team’s floor work seemed at times to be nigh perfect. Like a flash, Anderson shot
three consecutive shots and with close guarding, the Davidsonians held Charlotte to two field goals in this period. The line-up
and summary follow:

Davidson. Position. Charlotte "Y"
Staley (10) Right forward Niemi (5)
Mallory (1) Left forward Gall (1)
(Continued on page 6)

First of May to See the New Chambers Completed

Extra Work Delays Occupancy of Handsome Structure—May Let Other Contracts Soon

Chambers was to have been completed and thoroughly ready for occupancy at the beginning of the second semester of this
year, but the contractors find that the large amount of stone work in connection with erecting the building will prevent
their finishing the job before the first of May. However, Doctor Martin announces that he plans to move the executive
offices of the college into the new quarters as soon as the building is completed and entertains the hope that
the south wing of the building will be open for inspection of visitors on commencement day. With the start of
another scholastic year this fall, most of the classes will convene in the new building. Thus it will be no
longer necessary to use the several temporary rooms now converted into classrooms. Heretofore the plans called for the letting of
contracts for the three wings at such a time as the funds might be available. Since Mr. Duke has given
to the college a large endowment which will begin to bring in a substantial yearly sum in the near future,
Doctor Martin is inclined to think that the board of trustees will decide at their meeting in June to award
the contract for the (Continued on page 7)
