Vol. XIII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 10, 1925 No. 13

Coach Younger Working Basketball Men

COACH MONK YOUNGER

After Early Training Under Hengeveld Basketball Schedule to Open Late in December With Concord “Y” on Local Floor

After several weeks of practice under Coach “Dutch” Hengeveld, the basketball squad has been turned over to Coach Younger, who has cut the number of men to a size that can be handled more readily. The men who did not make the varsity group are still in training under Coach Tilson. As a nucleus for this year’s team, there are only three letter men: Anderson, Hewlett, and Captain Laird, but several promising players who took part in the class series are out fighting for berths. Included in the group are: Wilson and Weld, from the championship Sophomore five; Simpson, Calhoun, Hudgins, and Goodykoontz, of the Junior team; and Huie and Cook, who tossed the ball through the basket for the Seniors.

There are a number of others in the running, among whom are several men who were on the football squad at the time of the class series. Coach Younger has been drilling this squad hard the past week in preparation for a game with Concord, which opens the season shortly before the Christmas holidays.

The men of the so-called “Cowboys,” under the tutelage of Coach “Tex,” had their initial practice last Saturday, the day after the squad had been separated. The “Cowboys” go through a schedule the entire season, playing major high school teams in this part of the state and the second teams of other colleges. Among the men who are on this squad are: Lawson, O’Neal, Moore J., Moore S. W., Baker, Calhoun, Hall, Kugler, Wharton, Withers, Coltran, Farrell, Keerans, McConnell, Oden, Jones, and Lingle.

Eight Students Go to Salisbury For Evangelistic Work

Eight Davidson students, under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., conducted a whirlwind evangelistic campaign in Salisbury during the past weekend. They directed services at all of the Salisbury Sunday Schools and held special exercises at the Salisbury high school, the Y. M. C. A., and the Hi-Y clubs. This was the first important deputation sent out from Davidson this year, and the men were received with enthusiasm wherever they spoke. Rev. Edgar A. Woods, former Davidson student and at this time pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, arranged the services, being aided in this work by the Salisbury “Y” secretary, Mr. Dunham.

On Sunday morning, the students conducted services at a number of the Salisbury Sunday Schools. W. A. Christian taught two classes of boys at the Dutch Reform Church, Jim Pinkney spoke to a large audience at the Second Presbyterian Sunday School, Lewis McColgan and Clanton Williams conducted services at the First Presbyterian Church, and Harllee Branch spoke to the Baracca class for boys at the Second Baptist Church. On Sunday evening, these men led special services at each of the above churches. On Monday morning, Jim Pinkney and W. A. Christian spoke to the Salisbury High School students, and their talks were received with approbation and enthusiasm. The quartette, composed of D. M. Calhoun, Clanton Williams, W. A. Christian, and W. O. Green, rendered a number of musical selections that added considerable interest to the program.

An unusually large crowd of older boys attended the exercises in the “Y” hut on Sunday afternoon and listened with interest to the fine talks of Joe McConnell and (Continued on page 5)

Glee Club Sings Before Big Audience at Queens

Davidson Boys Entertained at Reception Following Second Performance of Season

A large audience of students and music lovers crowded into the auditorium of Queens College last Saturday evening to hear the Davidson College Glee Club in its second performance of the fall season. In spite of the fact that several unfortunate mishaps occurred in the course of the performance, the efforts of the musicians were received with enthusiasm and applause by the large audience.

First honors go to the Jazz Orchestra, whose rendition of numerous novelty orchestrations resulted in an uproar of approval. Among the most popular numbers offered by the members of the Orchestra were “Red Hot Henry Brown,” “Jingle Bells,” “When Eyes Of Blue Are Smiling,” “Sometime,” “Got No Time,” and “Show Me The Way To Go Home.”

The chorus of 40 singers came in for its share of applause, especially when it rendered the “Creation Hymn” and “Unto a Lowly Spot Directed.” Other melodies featured by the chorus were “Beetle Song,” “College Ties,” and “O! Davidson.”

The quartette, with its close harmony and swinging melody, proved a popular number. The deep bass voice of Calhoun as contrasted to the shrill tenor of Malcolm Lockhart brought a round of applause from the audience. Among the noteworthy selections offered by the members of the quartette were “Ain’t You Coming Back, Mary Ann?” “A Chinese Honeymoon,” “Freshie,” and “Dear One.”

A review of the performance would not be complete without mention of the work of the Symphony Orchestra, which held the audience spellbound by its rendition of classical numbers. A broken curtain rope, a faulty footlight (Continued on page 8)

Annual Bid-Day Closes Eleven Fraternities Pledge Eighty-One Freshmen

Number of Men Pledged Falls Below That of Last Year By Nine, as Three Months of Rushing is Brought to End---One Hundred and Three Bids Issued

Eighty-one Freshmen were pledged to the eight national and three local fraternities on the Hill last Saturday, the day officially designated by the Pan-Hellenic Council as Bid Day. One hundred and three bids were issued to 90 Freshmen, several fraternities bidding the same men. The week before had been filled with feeds and smokers given by the various fraternities for the Freshmen. The men will not be eligible for initiation until after they have passed a sufficient amount of work after the mid-term exams. The following is a list of the men pledged:

Beta Theta Pi—F. W. Ballard, of Penrose, W. Va.; Jack Causey, Greensboro; J. B. Moriarity, of Memphis, Tenn.; H. F. Sinclair, of Memphis, Tenn.; and J. T. Roddy, of Rock Hill, S. C.

Kappa Alpha—R. O. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga.; W. F. St. Clair, of Bluefield, W. Va.; A. C. Kelley, of Thomasville, Ga.; Mac King, of Bristol, Tenn.; Riggs McConnell, of Davidson; Wm. Bailey, of Rock Hill, S. C.

Kappa Sigma—Sam Black, of Davidson; R. F. LeFevre, of Lexington; Gardner Green, of Rome, Ga.; W. L. Crawford, of Albany, Ga.; James Sturdevant, of Rome, Ga.

Davidson Students Vote Entrance to World Court

Student Discussion and Talks by Doctor Lingle and Professor Freeman Lead to 298 to 75 Vote

Monday morning at the chapel hour, the students of Davidson College showed themselves interested in matters of national importance. At this time, 298 of the students voted in favor of the United States participating in the work of the World Court, while 75 voted against it. About two weeks ago, Dr. Lingle gave a brief survey of the question to the students.

Binet Cajoling Paper Names Monk Mythical Mentor

While many sports writers were wrangling over their mythical all-state football elevens, the Raleigh News and Observer, North Carolina’s biggest newspaper, named W. I. (Monk)Younger, popular Davidson mentor, as the best coach in the state. North Carolina has tried many kinds of coaches, importing them from the east and from the west, but finally one man has come back to his alma mater to win football laurels for his school. Duke University tried Howard Jones, from Iowa, and North Carolina State has Gus Tebell, from another mid-western state. Wake Forest sent to Princeton to get Hank Garrity, who hung up a golden record for the Baptists. Carolina has for years been running away with the (Continued on page 6).

... be the principal speakers at the National Collegiate World Court Conference. Among the topics to be discussed by these leaders are “The Press and War,” “The Relation of the World Court to Economic Prosperity,” “Imperialism and World Peace,” “The World Court and the League of Nations.” At present, more than 65 colleges from all parts of the country have accepted the invitation to send a delegate to Princeton for the conference. At the date this article is written, it is not positively known what will be Davidson’s action on the conference. (Continued on page 5).

Ga.; M. M. Caldwell, of Wilmington; R. L. Lawther, of Wilmington; Neil McGeachy, of Decatur, Ga.; E. H. Smith, of Quitman; Sam Watkins, of Henderson. Phi Gamma Delta—R. Horton, of Grenada, Miss.; C. R. Lake, of Greenville, Miss.; W. L. Dumas, of Talladega, Ala.; E. A. Holmgreen, of San Antonio, Tex.; M. L. Crawford, of Sumter, S. C.; S. W. McGill, of Louisville, Ky.; Charles Creech, of Winston-Salem. Pi Kappa Alpha—Thomas James, of Galax, Va.; E. G. Speir, of Charlotte; W. M. Regen, of Franklin, Tenn.; M. E. O'Neal, of Bainbridge, Ga.; Richard Parker, of Abbeville, S. C.; Wm. Wilson, of Paris, Ky. Pi Kappa Phi—J. W. Williams, of Greensboro; J. B. Hall, of Belmont; J. G. McClure, of Graham; N. A. McDonald, of Raeford; B. H. Geer, of Charleston, S. C.; R. M. Gantt, of Greensboro; R. C. Grady, of Wilmington. Sigma Alpha Epsilon—William Powell, of Greenville, N. C.; W. W. Flowe, of Concord; S. W. Smith, of Charlotte; H. B. Jennings, of Lumberton; G. McCuen, of Laurens, S. C.; Nelson Myers, of Greensboro; M. T. Gilmore, of Wilmington; A. F. Gordon, of Mobile, Ala.; R. B. Evans, of Fayetteville. Theta Upsilon Omega—W. E. Woodward, of Quincy, Fla.; H. Y. Harper, of Oak Hill, Ala.; W. E. Phifer, of Port Jervis, N. Y.; W. R. Weaver, of Hickory; Kenneth Purdy, of Pensacola, Fla.; R. C. Corning, of Hamlet. Sigma Delta—J. C. Albright, of Richmond, Va.; W. C. Archie, of Salisbury; R. Duffy, of New Bern; J. H. Faucette, of Burlington; W. B. McQueen, of Raeford; B. C. Pridgen, of Dunn; Edward Pridgen, of Dunn; A. F. Smith, of Prattville, Ala.; G. W. Stafford, of Burlington; J. W. Williford, of Lumber Bridge. Delta Theta Chi—Robert Kell, of Pascagoula, Miss.; Joseph Kerr, of Wilmington, N. C.; H. F. Rowe, of Fredericksburg, Va.; Joseph James, of Mebane, N. C.; Stuart Walters, of Charlotte.

Doctor Edward Mack Extols Sacrificial Learning in Phi Beta Kappa Ceremony Opened With Prayer by Doctor Frazer — Short History by Doctor Harding — Thirteen Men Received

On last Friday evening, December 4, the North Carolina chapter of Phi Beta Kappa held its public initiation in Shearer Hall. The exercises were presided over by Dr. C. R. Harding, president of Gamma chapter, and the speaker of the evening was Dr. Edward Mack, D.D., LL.D. of the class of 1886, who is now professor of Hebrew in Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va. The exercises were opened with prayer by Dr. D. M. Frazer, '76, followed by a short history of Phi Beta Kappa by Dr. Harding. Phi Beta Kappa was established at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va., on December 5, 1776. The group of 50 were known as the founders of the fraternity. There are chapters in over 100 colleges and universities over the country, with a membership of something 55,000 members, 40,000 of whom are still living. The charter for Gamma chapter was granted in September, 1922, and was installed on March 1, 1923. There were 10 charter members of the local chapter, Dr. J. M. McConnell being the president. The other officers were Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, vice-president; Prof. W. W. Wood, secretary and treasurer. Dr. H. B. Arbuckle introduced the speaker of the evening. Dr. Mack first reviewed the history of Phi Beta Kappa, and its foundation at William and Mary College. William and Mary College was granted a charter in 1619 and work was begun on the establishment of the buildings immediately, but was halted by a massacre by the Indians. The purpose of the founding of William and Mary was two-fold, (Continued on page 6).

Gaston Alumni to Banquet Football Varsity Saturday

Again the Davidson Alumni of Gastonia came to the front in their annual banquet for the Davidson football men. This loyal association has invited the Wildcat letter men, Coaches Monk and Tex, and Earnest Milton, to be their guests on Saturday night, December 12, at a banquet to be held at the Gastonia High School Cafeteria. This year the fighting Wildcats will feast with “Pat” Crawford's North Carolina champions. This team, it will be remembered, defeated Sanford and won the title in high school football. Many of the Gaston men are planning to make Davidson their alma mater, and it is fitting that the two groups have a chance to be together, so that the Davidson men might help in the good work of instilling some of that traditional Wildcat spirit into them.

When the Davidson team and the Gastonia fellows assemble with the alumni, there will be about 85 present, for Gastonia has 35 alumni that are the strongest Wildcats in the state, and who back every movement made by Davidson. The coaches and letter men, together with the remainder of the team, and the student body as a whole, join in thanks to the Gastonia Alumni Association for this step that they have taken.

“Given this team with Bob Fetzer as line coach, and Hank Garrity as backfield coach, and to furnish the plays, Monk Younger to weld the whole smooth-running machine and furnish the fighting spirit, a la Davidson, that would give a good account of itself against any team that did not include Grange or Oberlander, in which event I would substitute Mercury at left end and Lightning at right end.”