Vas THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

IMPERIAL Theatre
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Mon., Tues., Wed.
NORMA SHEARER
“A Slave of Fashion”

Literary Societies

Philanthropic
The first meeting of the Philanthropic Society was held last Thursday night at Phi Hall with Ben Ratchford, president, in
the chair. An interesting devotional period was conducted by Hodgkins followed by a debate with the question for discussion: “Resolved,
that the immigration laws should be more lenient.” The affirmative was represented by Calhoun and Alexander while Houth and Davis
defended the negative. The decision committee, composed of Pritchett, Williford, and Hodgkin, rendered a decision in favor of the negative.
Phillips and Dixon injected some spice in the meeting when they debated extemporaneously on the question of such vital importance:
Resolved: “That it is better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.” Phillips, representing the
affirmative, was awarded the decision over Dixon.

Eumenean
The regular weekly meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society was called to order by the president, T. C. Barr, on
Thursday evening at 7:30. Instead of the regular program, the meeting took the form of a discussion of the constitution.
It was decided that certain revisions should be made in the constitution, particularly in regard to the time of initiation
of new members. A committee composed of Allison as chairman was appointed to recommend and formulate the proposed changes. The
report of this committee will be presented Thursday night at the meeting of the society.

Metrophilian
The Metrophilian Literary Society held its second meeting Tuesday evening, September 22nd, at 7:15 in Phi Hall. President Roland Parker
presided. The program was short and interesting. After the devotional exercises, led by Lyerly, an impromptu debate was entered into.
The query was, “Resolved: That there should be an amendment to the Constitution which would control Child Labor.” On the
affirmative were eight candidates for membership who gave their names to the secretary at this meeting. The president gave some
very helpful words to both the new men and the old ones, urging that they enter into the spirit of
the work and help put things over.

HENDRIX SCORES (Continued from page 1)
Bell racing the kick-off back for 38 yards. A 27-yard pass to Wright placed the ball on Davidson's 29-yard line,
Overton carrying the receiver out of bounds with a mighty tackle as he alone stood between him and touchdown. Pinkney,
Davidson end, grabbed as Leggette punted 46 yards from the line of scrimmage to Wofford’s 20-yard line.

Terriers on Rush
Davidson kicked to the Terriers, who rushed the ball down the field for three consecutive first downs to Davidson’s 30-yard
line. Here Captain Black took a forward pass out of the air. Never again did the Wofford eleven come into
Davidson territory. Grey kicked 40 yards to the edge of the 25-yard line. On the next play, Laird dived with
the pass to get the ball for Davidson. Wofford strengthened and Grey's place kick, going wild, was covered by McConnell
on the 22-yard line. The quarter ended as Black's place kick went wild for a touchback.

The fourth period was Davidson’s despite the fact that the Wildcats suffered heavily on penalties. For some strange reason, the
Davidson quarter called for three passes, one of which he went high into the air to gather for 11 yards.
Dick Grey made the other one, again from Black, good for eight yards. Coach Younger held his passing attack as
well as all trick plays for future delivery, with the Wake Forest game next week in Charlotte in view. The
game ended with it third down and five to go, Davidson’s ball on Wofford’s 29-yard line.

Cinema Star Draws Many
Lois Wilson Admired by Local Brummels—Unable to Visit Davidson
It is the present ambition of all Davidson students to be governor; mainly because they might have the chance, as
our present governor did, of appearing on the stage and holding hands with that beautiful young woman referred to as
“the pride of Alabama and the glory of the South.” When news reached Davidson that Miss Lois Wilson, beautiful cinema
star and favorite actress of Davidson students, was to be the guest of the Carolinas Exposition, the Wildcats were wild
to see her. They flocked to Charlotte in huge bunches to see her, and perhaps, by chance, to meet her.

Equally spectacular with the work of Hendrix and Grey was the play of Harry Vance in the Wildcat line. He
smeared Terrier plays behind the line with consistency. Richie, substitute tackle, also worked great.

A Man’s Character is Reflected in the Stationery He Uses
TYPEWRITER SUPPLIES
POUND & MOORE

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE

Students 3 to Queen City
Association, which has changed the plan of selecting cheer leaders and assistants. The custom has heretofore been to hold the
election of the leader at the end of his Junior year, and to elect the assistants at the first of
the year in which they serve. Under the new plan, however, the leader is chosen at the beginning of the
baseball season of his Junior year. He then takes charge at the first baseball game and holds office until the
last basketball game of his Senior year, at which time his successor is named. The candidates for assistant will now
try out during the baseball season of their Sophomore year and continue until the first football trip of the next
year, when the two successful men will be named. The purpose of this change is solely to give experience and
poise. Under the former ruling, cheer leaders were forced to take charge at opening football games without having had an
opportunity to accustom themselves to the work and become acquainted with its difficulties.

Mrs. G. R. Vowles and little son, Richard, have arrived from Chicago and are occupying Mrs. Worth’s residence. Mrs. Weldon
Schuch and little daughter, Miss Sallie Schuch, are visitors in town. Miss Maude Vincent, and her mother, Mrs. W. D.
Vincent, spent the weekend with Mrs. Hall in Statesville.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST

PRINTING AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

The logical place for Davidson men to eat in Charlotte is S. Tryon St.Co. OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

Henry Powell and Charles McRae, while the negative was upheld by L. D. Wharton and Don Stewart. The vote of
the judges was in favor of the negative. Critic Pullen’s report followed. The new members, of whom four were upper-classmen,
were then initiated into the society. The initiation was very brief but impressive. President Parker concluded with an address of
welcome. The upper classmen were T. S. Lawson, Senior, Vernon Broyles and W. K. Forbes, Juniors, and J. A. Ricks,
Sophomore.

Following the program was the feed. While some 50 odd men were satisfying their bodily wants with punch, fruits, and
cakes, followed by smokes, Professor Wachter gave a talk intended especially for the new members. He stressed the importance of
literary society work in college life and commended the men who had just associated themselves with a society. After the
meeting was adjourned, the Freshmen remained behind to decide upon the defensive.

End Play

Great Pinkney and Bohannon showed the spectators that to the letters they won last year, while guarding the flanks, will
be added stars of brilliancy. Not once did any Wofford back sweep around the Davidson ends. All the Davidson punts
were unusually well covered while they both provided able line-interference. Wright, on the visiting end, was a steady player, while
Reams and Wright came near taking the game in the third quarter with their great plunges through the line.

Davidson (7) Position, Wofford (0)
Pinkney - - - - - LE - - - - - Thaxton
Hendrix - - - - - LT - - - - - Vance
McConnell - - - - - C - - - - - Skelton
Baker - - - - - RG - - - - - Lewis
Anderson - - - - - RT - - - - - Pressley
Bohannon - - - - - RE - - - - - Wright
Hendrix - - - - - QB - - - - - Wells
Wells - - - - - HB - - - - - Reams
Black - - - - - FB - - - - - Hill

Davidson - - - - - 0 7 0 0 - 7
Wofford - - - - - 0 0 0 0 - 0

Referee, Gass (Lehigh); umpire, Hartsell (N. C. State); headlinesman, Harrell (North Carolina); scoring; touchdown, Hendrix; placement after touchdown, Laird. Substitutions—Davidson:
Richie for Anderson, Overton for Wells, Leggette for Grey, Maulden for Baker, Baker for Maulden, Wells for Overton, Harrison for
Wells, Grey for Leggette, Overton for Grey, Leggette for Overman, McComb for Leggette. Wofford: Reams for Hill, W. Wright for
Faulk, Faulk for W. Wright, Hill for Reams, Habell for Thaxton, Crook for Skelton. Time of quarters, 15 minutes; attendance,
3,600.

Two Junior Assistants for Cheer Leader Monk

Seven Men Try Out For Positions—New Method of Election

During the past week or so tryouts have been in progress for assistants to Cheer Leader C. F. Monk. Seven
men from the Junior class have been showing their wares at pep meetings lately, and of this number two will
be elected by the student body. It is probable that the selection of these men will take place in chapel
on the morning of the Wake Forest game, October 3rd. Candidates for the positions are: Bill Story, Bob McConnell, W.
H. Kornegay, W. H. Bordeaux, J. H. Caligan, Clanton Williams and Cole M. Murchison. It may be of interest to
note that this election is the first of its kind to be held under the new ruling of the Athletic
Association.

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Here’s Style That’s “High-Hat” at a Price That’s Not

Tailored for young men who like good clothes, but don’t like to pay a king’s ransom for them. This suit
is made of the famous Clothcraft “5130” blue serge—and there is nothing more practical or economical for college $29.50 Also
made in brown and gray. MELLON’S
