4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH............. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE....................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH............................ Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON......................... Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES................................. Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON............................. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER............................. Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE............................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH............. Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN.................. Humorous Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE............................... Business Manager
W. LYN........................................ Assistant Business Manager
H. Y............................................. Circulation Manager
E. D............................................. Subscription Manager
J. M RISON................................. Subscription Manager
C. W. WILLIAMS......................... Solicitor
V. BROYLES............................... Solicitor
E. L. DOUGLASS......................... Assistant
JULIAN LAKE............................. Service Department

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
B. MARTIN
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
F. K. BELL
K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. HOUN
B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS
G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
B. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

INTRA-MURAL SPORTS

There has been a crying need for the past several years of a system of intra-mural sports here at Davidson. By that we mean an athletic system whereby every man who comes here can derive some benefit other than mere cheering on the sidelines or attendance at the pep meetings. Especially since the enrollment of the college has increased so greatly in the past five years, has there been lacking that spirit of competition and rivalry among the students that make for the best in athletics.

As the present situation stands, at the most there are only 100 men taking regular daily exercise under the direction of coaches. This number is divided among the two football teams and the track squad. As to the remaining 500 students, a few take some form of exercise, but the great majority are content to let day after day slip by without exercising their bodies for even a few minutes.

All medical authorities advocate daily and systematic exercise, even if that exercise does not last over a few minutes. Consistency and vigorousness are more important than form. A proper spirit of play and fun while exercising is of far more value than costly apparatus and scientific coaches.

The campus football games in vogue last fall were productive of much good inasmuch as it gave wholesome exercise to as many as 50 or 60 men at a time. This, however, is not suitable for the whole student body, as many men cannot engage in it, for various reasons. But there is direly needed on the campus a system of games that will enlist the whole-hearted support of every man. This might be in the shape of campus football, soccer football, volleyball, pushball, or various group games.

That this might sound like propaganda from some girls’ camp or old men’s home is true. But the fact remains, that any sort of outdoor exercise whereby a boy is made to receive physical exertion and wholesome companionship is valuable within itself. A clearer condition of mind and body results. The lungs and the skin throw off the toxic substances that accumulate and the mind is stimulated to greater activity of perception and retention. More facts and figures could be absorbed in less time. But there is little need arguing in favor of exercise.

If provision were made for a system of intra-mural sports whereby the various dormitories could compete with one another, we believe that much good could be accomplished. The friendly rivalry aroused would make for greater exertion. Certainly every student would receive some benefit. We hope that the Athletic Association will see fit to act on this suggestion. The present gymnasium is inadequate, but outdoor sports would cost very little in the way of equipment. The material is here and all that is needed is a little intelligent incentive.

JAMES B. DUKE

Each student and faculty member of Davidson College senses a feeling of personal loss in the death of James Buchanan Duke, which occurred last Saturday. The student body expressed their sentiments of bereavement in a telegram sent to the members of the family.

When Mr. Duke died, he was one of the richest men in the world. But it is not that distinction that we shall treasure his memory in later years. Many other rich men have died unhonored and unpraised. Davidson College and many other institutions will long honor the name of this man, who by his acts of charity and benevolence stored up treasures in the world to come.

From his enormous store of wealth, Mr. Duke set about to intelligently dispose of it so that it might do the greatest good where it was needed. He was not a wastrel, nor a man who threw his wealth away in profligacy. He knew too well the value of it which he had learned by years of hard experience and labor.

He was not always rich. Through pluck and perseverance he rose to heights, yet never did he forget the needs of those less fortunate. His riches and the power that came with them did not turn his head. For that reason Davidson honors his memory. But not only for that, for he was a man among men. His success was made sweeter by the evidences of the good that his money had done. Hospitals and churches benefited by his generosity. For years to come colleges will train men and women for service to humanity through the medium of Mr. Duke’s gifts. Surely, his life has been a blessing to mankind, and his influence a benediction unto those whom he loved.

Minor Chords

LETTERS

And now I place a match to you,
You letters of one once loved,
The hungry flames lick all your pages.
They sear each one with white hot tongues,
Just so the fire of Love burned bright
Within this breast of mine for her;
And just as those bright flames now leave
Charred ashes—so Love left my heart.

The Ruler of the Modern Age,
His Majesty the Scientist,
Would try to tell me ’tis the same,
For nothing here can be destroyed;
It only changes form and that is all.
I have not delved in Science's store,
I know not laws and all of that;
But, oh, the longing in my heart
For the Love consumed in that small fire.

The shifting wind sweeps o'er the place.
The ashes are scattered through the earth,
And all that lingers now with me
Is the blackened mark on the pavement there.

W. C. Ogden.

With Carolina’s unexpected onslaughts against the Dukes, the eyes of the Wildcats are turned toward that big team at Chapel Hill. Every single soul that can beg, borrow or steal the mazuma sufficient to see him to that place is going to ride the iron horse when he neighs at the gates of the Tar Heels. They are going there to pull a big handful of wool out of the back of the new Rameses, and bring back victory for the cats.

The suggestion concerning the hostess house in the Open Forum is a mark hitter. It comes at a time when the need for such a recreational center is felt more than ever. A non-fraternity man is at a loss many a time to show the proper courtesy to his guests, but such a hall would obviously change conditions.

A lot of the fellows are yearning for a girls’ glee club or two to come this way and bestow a pulchritudinous concert upon us. Apollo-like beauty is all right for a spell, but watch out!

These crisp, cheery and beautiful days of mid-autumn are just the thing for football, hunting, ‘possum chasing, chestnut hunting, joy-riding, spooning, bumming to Charlotte, writing love letters, bull sessions, reading Few, getting checks from home and er—er, oh yes,—studying.

Open Forum

Through the Key Hole

COURTESY TO VISITORS

Many and various have been the calls on our interest and moralSupport in recent weeks, but there is yet one other subject, different in nature from the others, which I would like to see called to the attention of the student body. Many times it has occurred to the mind of the writer, and he has often wondered why no one else had mentioned it. The question is simply that of a place where non-fraternity men may entertain visitors. It is a sad and humiliating fact that there is no place either on the campus or in town where a boy who does not belong to a fraternity may take his mother, sister, or girlfriend who may come to visit him for the day or afternoon. Since more than one-half of the student body is thus affected, should not something be done? We are here for four years, yet we are not given such a convenience while the government provided a place for the soldiers who were in camp only a few months. And think of the happiness that such a place would add to the college life of those who would use it! What is there that we appreciate more than a visit from “home folks?” Such visits would be much more numerous if there was a place where the visitors might be entertained. As a remedy, I would suggest such a plan as was used by the government in the Hostess Houses. Soon two of the present fraternity buildings on the campus will be vacant. What would be the objection to fitting up one of them as a general reception house for the student body? The expense would be very small—just a few decorations, chairs, and tables, and one room fitted up as a ladies’ rest room. The Matron of the dormitories could have her headquarters there and act as Hostess. I do not believe that any clear-thinking man could offer any objection to such a plan. I know that it is a matter that concerns a large part of the student body, and I believe that it would be appropriate for the Y. M. C. A. to sponsor the movement to obtain such a house. “BRUTUS.”

THE LITERARY SOCIETY PROBLEM

Questions of theological import being laid aside, it seems a good time for us to turn our minds to things of less spiritual, but perhaps more practical importance. It is a deplorable fact that the literary societies on the hill in the past few years have not had the interest shown in them that would be expected on the campus of a college like Davidson. The four societies now have an average membership of about fifty, and an average attendance of twenty-five to thirty-five. These figures are maximum, not minimum, and include the freshmen, some of whom will drop out before the year is over. There is often very little interest shown in the meetings, and it is almost impossible to have a spirited discussion with three-fourths of the seats vacant. Various remedies have been tried, but the results have been far from encouraging, and the cloud of apathy remains practically unbroken. Undoubtedly it is time that some more drastic cure be attempted,—a tonic, instead of the stimulants that have been administered from time to time. Four years ago the two then powerful and thriving societies, the Eu and the Phi, expanded into four, and since then, interest in the work has been steadily decreasing. The two halls now in use are badly in need of repairs, and the coffers of the two elder societies are by no means bursting with money. The Faculty proposes to install the Pans and the Metrophilians in new halls to be built on the first floors of the old society buildings. If the four societies were re-united into two, it is extremely unlikely that the old halls would ever be over-crowded, and they could be repaired instead of new ones being built. Greater interest would accompany increased attendance, and certainly, with the present membership, the two societies thus formed would not soon become too large for efficient work. The move would not be a great one, and it seems to the writer to be a remedy worthy at least of consideration. The president of the Eu’s has suggested a plan of college credit and faculty supervision for literary society work, which if carried out, would be a cause of increased interest and efficiency. It can hardly be denied that four years of conscientious literary society work under strict faculty supervision would be of more value to a man than a one-year course in oratory. The fact remains, however, that whatever the plan finally put into effect, it is high time that a drastic change of some kind be made if this work is to regain its proper place at Davidson. T. G. M.

THE WILDCAT

Some time ago an editorial appeared in the Davidsonian in which the living conditions of the Davidson mascot were deplored. “At the present Mr. Wildcat (as the writer of the article states) languishes in a cage far too small and admirably unsuited to the habitat of an animal.”

HARD-BOILED BOYS

Cactus Joe came down the trail riding a panther on a barbed-wire saddle, a young wildcat under his left arm, and whipping the panther with a rattlesnake. He dismounted and came through the door of the saloon without troubling to open it. He bit a cigar in half, shoved his fist through the showcase, and said, “Gimme my favorite drink; one part arsenic, one part carbolic acid, and two parts lye!” After he had strained this through his red whiskers the barkeeper found courage to ask, “Where yuh frum, stranger?” “I’m frum the third floor of East, but those hard-boiled fellows kicked me out.”

TERRIBLE LUCK

“My girl is awfully lucky.” “How is that?” “She wrote me that she went to a party the other night, and they played kissing games. Each man either had to kiss the girl or pay a forfeit of a box of candy.” “Well?” “My girl came home with thirteen boxes of candy.”

Tommy Jones—“What you writing?” Warren—“A joke.” Tommy—“Well, give her my regards.”

NOT SO GOOD

A certain lad was home from college on his vacation. His mother unpacking the trunk found a pawn ticket tied to a button of his coat. “What is this ticket, son?” “Oh, that is a check; I went to a dance and checked my coat.” Next she pulled out a pair of trousers, and a tag was attached to a button of these also. “John, just what kind of a dance was that?”

Thug—“Stick ’em up, bo, and don’t be slow.” Woodham—“Leave alone, I haven’t any money.” Thug—“Where yuh been?” Woodham—“On a date with a co-ed.” Thug—“Well, here’s carfare home.”

FAMOUS WALLS

Back to the ---------

NOW FOR A LITTLE MUSIC

Tune in on your radiator and hear Squad Joyner render: “I call my girl a pillow, because I’ve got a case on her.” Pardon me, that was a slip.

Solomon Adolphus Gustavus Q. Wise, Is one of the birds I sincerely despise. He pulls a bum joke, And your ribs he'll poke. “Ain’t I the stuff, you guys.”

“What’s crazier than a mosquito?” “I dunno.” “A looney tick.”

McCutcheon—“I was a leading man in the movies last summer.” Parker—“You were?” Bowie—“Yeh, he was an usher.”

ACTION

Don Wharton—“My love can’t be expressed in words!” She—“Tell me about it!” Lyerly—“I’ve changed my mind.” Ben—“Does the new one work any better?”

“Well, how did you leave Charlotte?” “On the train.”

“How can I drive a nail without hitting my thumb?” “Let your roommate hold it.”

Boy—“Yes, once I loved a girl and she made a fool out of me.” Girl—“What a lasting impression some girls make.”

KABLE.

The cat has barely enough room to turn around in and the sun rarely ever pierces through the relentless wire to the cold and cheerless interior. As for a soft place to sleep he has none at all. It is a certain fact that he would enjoy a nice, clean pile of hay in which to curl up these cold nights. People who come to our football games here naturally want to have a look at the “fighting wildcat” himself and it seems as we should provide quarters better than the decidedly unfit ones he now occupies. For a moderate sum a new cage could be built for “His Majesty” as the present one is not. 

M. T.