THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925

Seniors Call Back Childish Days in Springtime Feed

The Senior class of ’25 held its first banquet and smoker of the spring term on Tuesday evening, March 10th at the New Maxwell Chambers Hotel. There was much interest taken in the affair by all the members of the class, and the Seniors met with practically a full attendance; only a few being absent, who were prevented from attending on account of pressing outside matters.

After a bountiful banquet of good eats, for which the ever-growing popularity of the house is noted, cigars and cigarettes were passed around and the business of the evening was taken up. Perhaps the most important matter which was decided was the question of the class gift to the college. After much discussion, the matter was decided and a decision reached. President Briggs stated that for the present it was decided to withhold the nature of the gift to a later date, but that it would be announced at an opportune time.

Another important matter which was decided at this meeting of the class was the selection of little Miss Goudeloch Erwin, the attractive little four-year-old daughter of Prof. and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, as sponsor for the class of '25. Her choice as sponsor is an exceedingly fine tribute to this charming little lady.

The evening’s get-together ended with some fine musical numbers rendered by Joe Earnest, assisted by his ever trusty guitar, and thus ended the first of a series of smokers, which the class intends holding every two weeks until the senior examinations start, which will be about the middle of May. The remaining feasts are being keenly anticipated by all the Seniors.

WILL NEAL (Continued from page 1)

and has appeared as soloist on all the programs of this popular group of singers. Mr. Neal has a beautiful high baritone voice of dramatic quality—which together with a pleasing personality and stage presence has made him one of the most popular singers in the Carolinas and places him in constant demand for concerts and recitals.

The Charlotte Observer says: “Mr. Neal is one of the leading baritones of the city, his voice exceptionally fine, his tones clear and vibrant, and his diction and style that of an artist of high rank.”

The Charlotte News thus comments on his singing: “Will Neal, baritone, sang the ‘Drinking Song’ from Hamlet and confirmed the impressions he has made at many public appearances in Charlotte as an artist of high rank.”

SODA: Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc. 201 North Tryon St.

CLOTHES Lobby of West Today HATS HABERDASHERY March 19 SHOES Bill Hollenbeck, Rep. Fifth Avenue at 46th St. NEW YORK

INITIATES OF PHILOSOPHY CLUB READ TIMELY PAPERS

Beta Theta Pi and Pi Kappa Phi Entertained

The Philosophy Club met Thursday night in the Delta Theta Chi Hall and initiated the following men from the Junior and Senior classes: C. M. S. McIlwaine, M. S. Beall, A. Moffett, T. C. Barr, R. B. Parker, E. Houston, and A. H. Hollingsworth.

The regular meeting consisted of a reading and discussion of two subjects, based on papers by M. S. Beall on the Will To Believe, and by C. M. S. McIlwaine on the Psycho-Physical Parallelism of Mind and Body, with the latter going at length into some of the more noteworthy theories bearing upon the mind-body relationship. The club will attempt a detailed study of the relationships of mind and body in its program this spring, emphasizing the value of papers and open discussions.

THREE WORKS OF STUDENTS READ AT SIGMA UPSILON

Blue Pencil chapter of the national fraternity of Sigma Upsilon held its regular bi-monthly meeting Monday night, March 9. The play and especially the one-act play is being studied this semester, and emphasis is laid upon original work by all the members. This meeting of Blue Pencil was given over entirely to the work of individual members, and the program consisted of the following varying types: A short story, Nigger, by H. B. Price, dealing with the common treatment experienced by a progressive negro upon his return to the South. D. B. Wharton read a one-act play entitled Woman Politics, and J. B. Gallent read a short story called Roaches, both being original work of each one.

CIGARS NONE TOO SMALL R. A. DUNNPresident C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size The Commercial National Bank Charlotte, N.C. Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00. NONE TOO LARGE » STEWART Cashier and Trust Officer DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer L.W. _ J.B. * T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

The fraternities entertaining over the weekend were Beta Theta Pi and Pi Kappa Phi. A list of the guests follows:

Beta Theta Pi: Misses Anne Willingham, Lafayette, Ala.; Mary Laura Hart, Wynona, Miss.; Elizabeth Wilkinson, Winston-Salem; Betty Bryan, Charlotte; Isabel Milling, Rock Hill; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Catherine Statesville; Rutledge Dudley, Charlotte; Elizabeth Connell, Charlotte.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Lucille Wilson, Charlotte; Maryon Gallagher, Charlotte; Louise Stevens, Charlotte; Margaret Lewis, Greensboro; Frances Harrison, Greensboro; Katharine Coxe, Greensboro; Gene McDonald, Greensboro.

The boys feasted their eyes to the “fire” satisfaction on the “splendiferous” specimens of conglomerate femininity.

Alumni News Bascomb Sorrells, '23; Robert Holmes, '22; Flop Beaver, ex-'24; Perry Priest, '24; Tom Marrow, ex-'25; Carroll Overton, ex-'24; F. J. Wright, '22, and Gig Shepherd were on the Hill during the past weekend. Dunbar Ogden, '23; Dwight Chalmers, '20, and Murdock McLeod, '22, were here for the past weekend on a deputation from Union Theological Seminary. They spoke at several religious meetings during their stay.

Births News has been received that Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence Wilkinson have announced the birth of a son. Mr. Wilson, '13, is in the insurance business in Charlotte, N. C.

BUNCH OF FELLOWS ARE ON HAND FOR RE-EXAMS

Saturday at 2:15 re-examinations were given to those students who either failed on their first semester exams or who for sickness or other reasons failed to take their exams at the scheduled time. The total number this year is not exceptionally large. According to the number who bought their receipts, there were 99 who took the exams. With the taking of these exams, several students breathe a sigh of relief and settle down to steadier everyday work. These re-exams are convenient for the students who desire a second chance to pass a subject, but they are also advantageous to those who failed to take the exams at first. A second set of them will be held soon, the exact date not being known, for those students who were unable to take them Saturday. However, there will be no more given to those who failed to pass on the re-examinations.

3 o'clock Sunday afternoon is the most dangerous hour in America---because---more than twice the number of automobile accidents occur on Sunday than any other day in the week, and at 3 o'clock the number reaches its peak.

McALISTER CARSON, Mer. ('13) CHARLOTTE, N. C.

BELK BROS. CHARLOTTE

Special Values Being Offered in Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits Wide Bottom Pants In one or two-piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50 The New Style Bell Bottom Pants In Light, Medium, and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95 Trade With Us and Save Money

HOLLINGSWORTH ELECTED HEAD OF Y. M. C. A. (Continued from page 1)

From the moment that he set foot on the campus he has shown his ability in more ways than one. His oratory has made him known to all as a debater and orator, and his common sense, good judgment, and pleasing personality have made him the friend of every student, especially those in distress. His efforts have made more than one project successful, and there is every reason to expect a similar result in the Y. M. C. A. administration for next year.

William Thomas Covington, Jr., of Raeford, N. C., has also won the respect of his fellow students since he came to Davidson in the fall of '23. His ready smile and genuine character have won him a place of high standing among the students. His fellow classmen recognized his ability and chose him to guide their class through the Sophomore year. He has shown a sincere interest in religious activities in addition to playing an important role in numerous other campus enterprises.

William Armistead Christian, Jr., of Mobile, Ala., made an enviable record in double quick time, being chosen as president of his class, as a Freshman. He is an athlete, a scholar, and a clean Christian gentleman. He has played football and made the honor roll his first year. His ability was seen and appreciated soon after he entered school, and he has made a lasting impression on all who have come into contact with him. With the cooperation of the student body, these men are certain to make the coming year one of the best in history, both for the students and the Y. M. C. A.