8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

Forensic Council Has Selected Debate Topics
December 3rd Date for Junior-Senior Contest—While Fresh-Soph Will be Soon

The Forensic Council has arranged the debating schedule of this year differently from that of last year. Instead of having
the Fresh-Soph debates in the spring, it is holding them in the fall. This is done so that new material
may be prepared for varsity debaters. The Freshman material is to be prepared through the medium of the four literary
societies. By preliminaries to be held in the coming two weeks, each society will determine its best Freshman and Sophomore
material for its debating team. Then the societies will stage debates between their teams, which debates will be considered as
the semi-finals. The Philanthropic and the Pandemic societies, taking the affirmative side of the question, will debate the Eumenean and
Metrophilian societies, respectively. These debates will be held December 1st. The final debate between the two winning teams will be
held during the second week of December. The question is, “Resolved, That America Should Cancel the War Debts of Her
Allies.” Material has been placed in the debate room of the library. There seems to be quite a good bit
of material this year from which to choose, not only the Freshman debaters, but also the Sophomore debaters. The entire
Freshman team of last year, excepting one alternate, is back again this year.

The subject that has been chosen by the Forensic Council for the annual Junior-Senior debating meet, which will be held
in the near future, is “Resolved, That the United States Should Enter the World Court.” This subject is the vital
topic of discussion throughout the nation today. On December 17th, the United States Senate will vote as to whether this
country will or will not cast her lot with other leading nations in this Court of Permanent Justice.

Last week, the preliminaries of two of the literary societies were held, and the team members given below were selected.
The other two societies will stage their preliminaries sometime this week for the selection of their team. Philanthropic, with a
team of C. G. Davis, J. C. Barrington, and A. B. Williford, will uphold the affirmative in the semi-finals to
be held on November 24th, against the negative team of the Eumenean society, composed of T. C. Barr, W. A.
Christian, and T. G. McCutcheon. The affirmative team of the Pandemic society will clash with the negative defenders for the
Metrophilian in the semi-finals. These team members will be given in the next issue of The Davidsonian, as the preliminaries
for each have not yet been held.

The finals, to be between the two winners, are scheduled for December 3rd.

We cannot exactly agree with one sport writer that McMurray, end of Carolina, played a good game Saturday, for Davidson
gained a matter of 120 yards around the flank positions of the Tar Heels. The day before the game, a
write-up from Chapel Hill said that no team had gained around their ends. They cannot say that now. More praise
is due to the Davidson ends, for Carolina only gained one yard that way.

IMPERIAL
Charlotte, N. C.
MON., TUES., WED.
“THE KING ON MAIN STREET”
WITH ADOLPHE MENJOU
GRETA NISSEN
BESSIE LOVE
THUR., FRI., SAT.
GLORIA SWANSON
IN
“STAGE STRUCK”
A Paramount Picture

Doughty Sea-Dogs Journey to Press Conclave Aboard Sea-Worthy Craft
By C. F. C. F. S.

With a mighty swish of waves and tugging of ropes, the good ship “Helen Maria” steamed out of the port
of Davidson last Thursday morning with a full cargo of suitcases and delegates consigned to the tenth semi-annual conclave of
the North Carolina Collegiate Press Convention at the good harbor of Chapel Hill. No ringing of bells tended her sailing,
nor was a band of brass on the wharf to toot a bon voyage, but the good ship crested the
foam amidst rain and November spray.

The vessel above referred to was none other than a product of Henry Ford's factory in the guise of a
clipper of the whaling days. She was rigged fore and aft with seven young Davidsonians who were appointed delegates to
the meet at the seat of Carolina’s learning. Those young men who composed the crew of the schooner were: Harold
“Hotsy-Totsy” Burke, skipper; Fred Smith, first mate; Harllee Branch, coxswain; “Shorty” Wilson, purser; Ernest Milton, second mate; and Wood Brown,
crew. Before the appointed hour for sailing, a fresh bottle of Atlanta's Pride was broken over the bow, also an
underslung pipe of the Dawes type. Thereupon, she was christened “Helen Maria” and a shouting of the old sea-dogs ensued.
The anchor was weighed and was found to contain exactly 43 pounds. She was off for Carolina!

Thursday was a good day for rain and the seas were a trifle rough. None of the passengers nor crew
became seasick in spite of the fact that the boat was headed right into the teeth of the gale and
she shipped a mountain of water on the corners. Along one particular bad stretch of sea, the waves were so
high that lots were cast to throw a man overboard, but the sun came out and he was reserved for
future use. The voyage lay over the familiar route through Salisbury, High Point, where all the inhabitants sit in chairs,
and through Greensboro, the Girl City of the South. Thence on to Chapel Hill through several small ports where the
good ship stopped at several coaling stations to take on fuel. The port of Chapel Hill was reached ere the
shades of night had fallen in the windows.

The Publications Union of Carolina had certainly bestowed their blessings upon the program for it was crammed with entertainment and
diversion from stem to stern. Meals were arranged for in the big hall of Swain, where the elite of Carolina
eat. Two dances were given, one by the Thirteen Club and the other by the Order of the Grail. The
highlight of the whole cruise, though, was the big banquet given at the Carolina Inn. There the joy was spread
on thick as meaningless phrases on the tongue of Andy Gump.

The regular program opened with a rip and a snort. The address by Mr. Keener, of the Durham Herald, showed
up many interesting insides of the newspaper game. President Moore put across a hot line concerning the freedom of the
college press, which all delegates present heartily endorsed. A trip to the class in journalism, taught by Prof. Gerald Johnston,
was interesting to those who went all the rounds. Of girls, there was an abundance, and they were of that
variety of femininity that goes by the common adjective of pulchritudinous. Every one of them good-looking, and if it had
not been for the variable rushing of the Carolina boys, the masculine delegates would have scored a hundred percent in
looking after and tending to the wants of the fair visitors. They hailed from most all the girls’ colleges of
the state, and they reigned supreme during their stay. The boys showered a few compliments themselves. They were on hand
to take the girl delegates to the feeds, banquets, dances, and rides, etc.

The entire delegation attended the game Saturday afternoon and watched the Wildcats outplay the Tar Heels, only to get beaten.
It is a safe estimate to say that three-fourths of the girls pulled for the Red and Black (Red Laird
and Wick Black).

The grand hop in Swain Hall Saturday eve was a big success from a crowded standpoint. When a couple started
doing the Charleston, the whole shebang surged over the breakers and left the plain dancers to their fate. Everyone was
gloriously happy and there was no disorderliness. The Convention was over in the afternoon, and the homeward journey was started.
The Helen Maria was loaded to the gunwales and the mizzen-mast flecked with bunting. Hotsy-Totsy Burke led the rah-rahs and
the harbor was steamed out of. The entire crew pressed forwards, and the ship made good time until she got
to Durham and through some mishap or other, she made directly in front of the co-ed building of Duke University.
The same accident happened at G. C. W. and N. C. C. W. At the last place, several hours were
needed to straighten the rudder and the propellers so that quick time could be made on the home stretch. The
voyage from Greensboro to the Gate City of northern Mecklenburg County was made without mishap in spite of the heavy
seas which threatened to swamp the upper decks at various times. No further adventures were met until the fleet neared
Mooresville, where a rabbit tried to commit suicide in a fit of despondency and threw himself in front of the
bow of theschooner. A rabbit hunt was engaged in for several minutes, but it is still believed that the bunny
crawled away and died out of spite, as he could not be found. Davidson was finally reached and the crew
crowed loud over their cruise. All hands were out to swab the deck with a hearty “aye-aye, sir,” and to
await the next meeting of the association at Guilford next spring.

TARHEELS ANNEX STATE
(Continued from page 1)

to win football games. It had a reserve strength and it had a heavier battering ram when it needed a
battering ram to crumble the defenses of the unfaltering Davidson. Davidson has nothing to be ashamed of in its defeat,
and more to be proud of than any team that ever left the field the loser. Time after time the
Wildcats took the game into their own hands. Time after time they swept over and around and through the bewildered
Tar Heels in dazzling maneuvers that brought the eight thousand spectators to their feet breathless.

And almost they succeeded, but when the crisis came somehow Carolina gathered itself together and held them halfway through the
first quarter, with a touchdown lead to overcome. Davidson assumed the offensive when Hendrix went around Carolina’s right end for
34 yards. On the next play Wells went around the other end for 17 yards, and Hendrix smashed the line
for a gain of ten yards. Carolina began to stiffen within its ten-yard line, and the next play netted Davidson
only five yards. The next was reduced to two yards, and on the next Davidson lost a yard, as the
quarter ended. The line held and in three downs Davidson gained nothing. Kicking a field goal would have been child’s
play, but the Wildcats did not come to Emerson field for a field goal victory. A forward pass was grounded
and Carolina, to the great relief of its partisans, kicked the ball out of harm’s way.

Then came the first of the major breaks. The punted ball hit a Davidson runner, and Carolina claimed the ball
on Davidson’s 45-yard line. The Wildcats held and Carolina was forced to kick. Again they began a terrible drive toward
the Carolina goal line, plunging through for gains through tackle. Carolina stiffened again and Davidson lost the ball on downs,
still scorning to try for a field goal. An aerial punting duel ensued which gained Carolina nothing. The Tar Heels
then unleashed their major offensive of the game, opening with a forward pass that netted 11 yards. Carolina massed its
offensive, boring and blasting its way through the Davidson line until a 19-yard pass sent Underwood over the line for
the second touchdown of the game. The Fayetteville youth kicked goal and the score stood at 13 to 0. The
quarter ended with Davidson beginning a new offensive that was well underway as the whistle blew.

Davidson’s very eagerness to get into the play cost it the first touchdown. Davidson kicked and Bonner fumbled it on
the return. Hendrix fumbled on the second line plunge and Carolina recovered. Three offside penalties brought the ball to the
20-yard line. Bonner, Sparrow, and Underwood, drilling and blasting through the line, scored the first touchdown within three minutes of
the initial kickoff. Sparrow failed to kick goal. In the second quarter, the Wildcats harried the heavier and slower Tar
Heels, snapping forever at them, threatening with a bewilderingly versatile attack, daring at anything and when one thing failed, trying
another. Time after time they threatened to smash through the Carolina defenses. They loosed forward passes. But always Carolina erected
an impregnable defense when Davidson came within striking distance of their goal. And Davidson scorned anything less than a touchdown.
All the way through they played for the game. Carolina held them, and kicked. Davidson would be back at them
but Carolina made no major bid for a score in the second half. It tried the Wildcat line, but without
consistent gains. The Wildcat ends somehow swept around the scrimmage and nailed them from the rear. One Melton shot through
and nailed Underwood in his tracks as he was about to pass the ball over the line. It was the
most brilliant tackle of the game. Hendrix, Black, and Wells threatened until the last moment of the play, ripping through
the Tar Heel defenses. It seemed almost inevitable that Hendrix would eventually get clear, and a dozen times he was
within an inch of it, but Carolina’s backs and ends always got their man before irreparable damage had been done.
McIver at center was a telling factor in the day’s defensive playing. They swept its ends for gains.

In the matter of first downs, Davidson had the edge over the Tar Heels, registering 13 against their 9. In
the matter of forward passes, Davidson was the more daring, attempting 14, completing six, and gaining 43 yards by them.
Two of the Wildcats' passes were intercepted. Carolina gained 37 yards with three of its seven passes attempted. Carolina lost
five yards on offside penalties while Davidson lost 29. There were no penalties for other offenses. There were no other
infractions of the rules. As a spectacle, this was the greatest game that anybody remembers seeing on this field. Carolina
won it cleanly and decisively, because Napoleon was no doubt right when he declared that God fights on the side
of the heaviest battalions. It was never free from the menace of the Wildcats. Carolina might be argued out of
its first touchdown but the second they won by a superior attack, or at any rate by a heavier attack,
and an ability to maintain a sustained defensive, even against the lightning-fast Wildcats. Davidson was defeated but not whipped.—Ben Dixon
MacNeill, Staff Correspondent for the Raleigh News and Observer.

Davidson Position Carolina
Einkneyeeessesees LE Dy eeenpera, McMurray
Ritchie RE Morehead
Vance LT Braswell
McIver LG Melton
AG C Bes
Whisnant RG Robinson
Arrowood RT Dodderer
Hendrix Quarter Sparrow
Wells LH Bonner
Gray RH Underwood
Black FB Shuford

Substitutions: Davidson — McComb, Farrell, Hewlett, Bohanon, Laird, Nesbit, J. Gray, Laws. Carolina — Ferrell, De- Curlee, Cobb, Hackney.

DAVIDSON HIGH DOWNS TROUTMAN

The Davidson High School football team defeated Troutman High in a game that was full of fight on Richardson field
last Tuesday afternoon. The score was 12 to 0. At the end of the first half, the score was zero
for both sides. The whole half had been just an exchange of punts. Troutman had managed to get two first
downs; Davidson did not put over a first down in the first half. At the beginning of the second half,
Davidson High opened an aerial attack and scored a touchdown by making a straight march down the field. The whole
backfield featured in the passes. On the twenty-yard line, Johnson threw a ten-yard pass to Fiddler who eluded two Troutman
men and then went the remaining ten yards to the goal with two other fellows hanging on to him. Johnson
failed to kick goal. In the fourth quarter, Davidson marched down the field but was held for downs on the
two-yard line. In an effort to punt to safety, the Troutman was slow in getting the ball off and it
was blocked. J. D. McConnell caught the ball, making the second touchdown. Muchachos dropkicked for the extra point but the
ball missed the upright by inches. Davidson made seven first downs to Troutman’s three. The line-up is as follows:

Davidson High (12) Position Troutman (0)
Henderson LE Suther
Hutson LT Williamson
Sherrill, J. LG Kyles
Donaldson C Maness
MacConnell, C. RG Rule
Wilbon RT Suther, K.
Muchachos RE Cornelius
MacConnell, J.D. QB Brown, S.
Gudger LH Loftin
Mooney RH Brown, H.
Williams FB

Touchdowns: Davidson High, Fiddler, MacConnell, J.; Substitutions: Davidson High, Johnson for MacConnell, J.; MacConnell, J. for Henderson; Fiddler for Gudger;
Crow for MacConnell, C.; Hovis for Williamson. Time of quarters 12 minutes each. Officials: Anderson, (Davidson) referee; Johnson (Davidson) umpire;
Carter (Davidson) headlinesman. Attendance, 300.

For, Wake Forest defeated Carolina. Davidson tied Wake Forest, and as someone has remarked, after the first five minutes of
play in that game there was only one team on the field—Davidson’s, and we gained far more ground against the
Demon Deacons than they did against the little Wildcats.

SERVICE

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY HOUSE, SEE WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.

LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS
