6 THE DAVIDSONIAN

ATHLETICS

ALL Coach Tilson’s Gridmen Start Spring Training

Over Eighty Uniforms Issued to Football Candidates—Several Games Arranged

Regular spring football practice started Monday afternoon under the coaching of Coach Rawson, Coach Tex Tilson being away on a
football trip. Two weeks will be spent on the fundamentals and conditioning work. Then an additional two weeks will be
taken up with work on signals and scrimmaging. Coach Tilson has planned to stage a regular game each Saturday in
March. Two squads will be selected as evenly as possible to oppose each other in these contests. These will be
conducted as far as possible like a regular varsity game, and the competition will no doubt be very keen. The
practice will be carried on through March if it can possibly be done. Regular practice of baseball and track may
interfere with the continuance of football, but it will be carried on until then.

Coach Tilson has announced that those who draw a uniform and then cease practice without a very good excuse will
not be given another uniform at any time. Anyone who intends going out for football in the fall must come
out for this spring practice or not come out at all, unless, of course, he is a member of the
basketball or wrestling teams. Eighty uniforms had been issued from the gymnasium through last Monday, and it is expected that
more will be demanded during the first week of practice. Freshmen will join in this practice also, and it is
expected that quite a few of them will make a good showing for the varsity. The work of Captain Boggs
as usual was very good.

Davidson Wins

The Davidson basketball team opened the post-exam schedule Saturday night when it defeated Concord “Y” 37-14 over in the Cabarrus
County seat. The Wildcats held the “Y” to four points in the first half while in the last half Coach
Younger used a good number of subs. McConnell led the scoring with 10 points while Laird was second with seven.

Wildcat Quintet Ready for Post-Exam Games

Davidson Basketeers Fast Rounding Into Shape For Georgia Tech Contest

The Davidson Wildcats have again swung into action after having struggled manfully with exams for the past two weeks, and
are on the last half of the schedule now. Having played Duke University, Durham Elks, and Wake Forest this week,
they complete the week of games with Durham Elks here tomorrow night. Next week they have only one game scheduled,
that being with the Charlotte “Y” in Charlotte. The game scheduled with Stetson University here was called off. Stetson University
was expected to play Davidson here on Saturday, February 14th, but due to an incomplete schedule the game was called
off.

The game here Friday night with the Durham Elks should cause quite a bit of interest. The Elks have several
men that were stars in their college days. Among them is Starling, former Trinity College, or Duke University, player, and
Sis.

The big family car—the kind you want for the months of changeable weather and difficult driving conditions.

The Fordor Sedan $660
Coupe $520
Tudor Sedan $580
Runabout $260
Touring Car $290
Open cars Demountable and Starter $85 Extra
All prices f. o. b. Detroit

It is fitted with carpet and curtains that harmonize with the color tones of the two wide, deeply upholstered seats.
It enables you to keep comfortably warm, yet have plenty of fresh air since the Fordor Sedan is equipped with
a Cowl Ventilator and windows that lower by revolving regulators. You cannot own a car that offers you better value
or more widely useful service. And the greater economy of operating a Ford lends emphasis to the practical worth of
this car to you.

Ford Motor Company

SEE THE NEAREST AUTHORIZED FORD DEALER

VISITORS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME AT ALL FORD PLANTSbut because they could not arrange a com- est, as this team has
some old college players. Chief Perry, a former Carolina man, when Carolina won the Southern championship two years ago. They
ought to give the Davidson team a stiff game. The Charlotte game is expected to bring out a lot of
fight in both teams. Charlotte has been met and conquered once this year, but that was at the first of
the season, and on the Davidson court. The game will be played on the Charlotte court, and this gives them
an advantage. They have shown wonderful improvement since playing Davidson, and are putting in a claim as one of the
best, if not the best, “Y” team in the two Carolinas. Every Davidson man should make an effort to see
both of these games, for they have but a few more chances to see Davidson in action this year, for
the team takes a Virginia trip that will practically wind up the season for them.

Scrubs Take Three And Go To Hills

Coach Tex Tilson’s Cowboys, having won three straight games from the Charlotte Riflemen, Mooresville Highs, and the Long Creek School,
left Monday morning for the mountains of western North Carolina, where the Hickory Athletic Association and the Valdese School were
met on Monday and Tuesday. Those making the trip were: Baker, Goodykontz, Cooke, Faucette, McComb, Matthews, Sappenfield. This causes a
break in the schedule of seven days before the Georgia Tech game in Charlotte.

N.C. STATE BASEBALL SCHEDULE CHANGED

Penn State and Maryland Games Canceled—Davidson and Guilford Replace Them

Director Miller has found it necessary to make some few changes in the schedule for the State champion this year.
Penn State was unable to make the trip down here for financial reasons, and so asked that the contract be
canceled. For the same reason, Mr. Miller asked Maryland to cancel the State game scheduled there. To replace these games,
Director Miller stated that he has finally managed to connect with Davidson, two games having been scheduled: one April first
at Davidson, which will open the season for State, and the second April 9th, here. In addition to these, a
game has been scheduled with Guilford, to be played at Guilford, April 2nd. A third game with Duke University has
been scheduled for May 20th, at Durham.—Technician.

Three more volumes of The Oxford English Dictionary have recently been purchased, making a total of six volumes now in
the college library. The final volume of this dictionary, which is the tenth, is now under preparation, and portions of
it have already been published. The collection of the materials which are used in this dictionary began in 1857 with
the appointment of the Philological Society in London of a committee for the collection of words unregistered in existing dictionaries.
It now extends to 14,597 pages and deals with 391,710 words, illustrated by 1,704,318 quotations. The price of the nine
volumes which have already been completed is over two hundred and fifty dollars, and yet this amounts to only about
one and one-half cents a page.

The Times (London) says: “In three points, at least, the dictionary has no rival. These are: First, the scientific treatment
of etymology; secondly, the historical continuity of usage; thirdly, the precision of reference in the illustrative passages quoted.”

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

FOR SALE - - ???!!
C. Melody Buescher !? SAXOPHONE
Will Sell at Sacrifice
See Frank Laird
P. O. Box 354
Davidson

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU'LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service
Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

We Invite Your Business LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Davidson Men
NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For
