THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

Campus football still holds sway over those who do not go out for any other sport. There have been several
big games between rival floors, dormitories, counties, etc. The rules for this ancient sport have never been revised since last
year, yet the games continue, though not without argument.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

CHAMPION Electric Shoe Fixery
YOUR SHOES FIXED BETTER

Cage Men Meet Salisbury “Y” on Local Floor Tomorrow Night
Monk Has to Cut Squad Several Times as Game Draws Near

Tomorrow night the varsity basketball team will line up for its second game of the season. All of the players
are in fine shape after the Concord game, and everything points towards a snappy encounter. The same men will start
who played in the initial game. Salisbury “Y” is an unknown quantity to the Davidson students, since it has not
appeared on the schedule during the past few years. It should be of about the same caliber as Concord “Y.”
These two pre-season games give Coach Monk a wonderful perspective of the men’s ability. Anderson and Laird are playing a
stellar game as usual and form a good nucleus for the team. Wilson, Huie, Harrison, and Simpson are the other
main performers. Wilson, with the advantage of reach over Anderson, has been chosen to jump center while Anderson goes to
guard. After the tip-off, however, these two will exchange places. Anderson was high point man last season and is one
of the best shots in the state. Andy Hewlette, who is expected to show good form this year, is out
for the present, having an indisposed diaphragm. In other words, his tonsils have recently been lifted. After Christmas, he will
be back in condition. Andy is also suffering with an injured knee.

The Doss
St. Nick has the Spirit of the Season in the happy combination of smart lines and new colors. The shape
is ideal for wear with an overcoat. This is the time when we should all look our best—it adds to
everybody’s pleasure. A cheerful smile and a new hat go well together.
TATE-BROWN CO.
KEERANS & KING, Agts.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Boyce Martin

The captain has been elected, managers chosen, letters awarded, and football is all over until February, when the annual spring
practice begins. His playing was exceptionally brilliant many times during the past season, and promises to be even more so
in the season of 1926. He also has those qualities of leadership that are essential for a man to be
a real captain to his men. It must be a hard job for the Athletic Council to select a football
manager for the coming season. McIlwaine, Woods, and Carroll have been out for three years and have worked hard. McIlwaine
was elected and should prove to be a fine manager since he is competent and also a hard worker. Twenty-one
letters were awarded to those fighting Wildcats who had played in enough games to merit the wearing of the coveted
“D.” Six of these will probably never again put on the ol’ red jersey and trot out on the field
to fight for Davidson. That banquet in Gastonia must have been quite an affair. Imagine the best high school team
in the state, one of the best college teams, and 35 active and energetic alumni of Davidson, all together and
pulling for old Davidson.

The basketball team is beginning to hit its stride now, and prospects look a little more hopeful than they did
a few weeks ago. With four letter men from the great team of last year lost to the squad, it
will be rather difficult to build a smooth-running team. But you know Coach Monk. In the practice game with the
Freshmen last Saturday, the varsity cut loose in the last half and walked away with the first-year men. The score
was rather close at the half, but after the second period, the varsity were far ahead. The Freshmen have some
good material out for the team, more in proportion than had the football squad. The team promises to be better
than the Fresh team of last year, but to be an optimist and predict a successful season at this time
of the year is foolish. During the dull and quiet season between football and basketball, the minor sports are receiving
quite a bit of attention. The boxing and wrestling squads have increased noticeably and many good men are out for
positions on the two teams. Lucian Wells should make a worthy leader.First few minutes of the | Between White Drug
Company and post office DAVIDSON, N. C.

Hebe McIlwaine Chosen to Manage the Varsity Grid Team Next Fall
Lingle, McRae, and Robinson Chosen as Junior Managers

1827 1925 Columbia Theological Seminary Columbia, S. C.

At a meeting of the Athletic Council last Wednesday night, R. H. McIlwaine was named manager of the Davidson eleven
for the season of 1926. Hebe takes the place of E. K. Regen, who managed the squad for the past
season. The selection was made from the three Junior assistant managers of football for this year: McIlwaine, W. S. Woods,
and M. L. Carroll. This position of responsibility and trust was awarded to McIlwaine after three years of diligent and
faithful work. The selection was made after careful consideration, as one member of the Athletic Council put it, “The only
fair way to properly decide on the manager from these three is to put their names in a hat and
draw one of them.” All three men had done efficient and noteworthy work.

The Synod of Mississippi and Columbia Theological Seminary Join Forces. Resolution in Regard to the Columbia Theological Seminary, Adopted November
13, 1924.

“The Synod of Mississippi has heard with pleasure the plan for the removal of the Seminary to the City of
Atlanta, Ga. I. Does hereby accept said offer of the Board of Directors of the said Seminary when the removal
of the Seminary shall have become an assured and legal fact.”

The position of manager is no new job for McIlwaine since he had control of the financial end of the
football squad at McCallie School before entering Davidson. Hebe is also active in other campus activities besides football, being a
member of the Reporters’ Club of The Davidsonian and holding various other positions of honor on the hill.

In addition to selecting a varsity manager, the Athletic Council selected W. L. Lingle, R. McRae, and J. L. Robinson
as Junior assistants for next year. The Sophomore assistants for next year will not be announced until the beginning of
fall practice next year.

II. And as this removal may be thus decided before another meeting of Synod, it does hereby appoint as Directors
in said Seminary: Rev. C. W. Grafton, D. D., Rev. J. B. Hutton, D. D., Mr. R. F. Kimmons respectively
for one, two, and three years.”

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, President

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks

In recognition of their services as Junior managers of football this year, Carroll and Woods were appointed as Junior managers
in other sports, Carroll being assigned to basketball and Woods to track. These vacancies were caused by the failure of
the Junior managers of these respective sports to return to school this fall.

The Athletic Council, which chose these managers, is composed of Coach W. L. Younger, director of athletics; Dr. J. M.
Douglas, graduate manager of athletics; Harry Vance, president of the Athletic Association; E. K. Regen, manager of the 1925 team;
and Captain W. M. Black, leader of the Wildcat eleven.

QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES

Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED MORALLY CONDUCTED

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL BILLIARDS 205 West Trade Street (upstairs) Meet your friends here and make this your club when in
Charlotte

knee, which he received while playing football. Duke will come to Davidson for a game on January 8 and the
schedule thereafter will be very heavy. Three of the state teams will be played before examinations. The line-up for the
Salisbury game will be as follows:

Right forward: Captain Laird
Left forward: Huie
Center: Wilson
Right guard: Anderson
Left Guard: Harrison or Simpson

TWENTY-ONE VARSITY (Continued from page 1)

son, of Greensboro; and Manager E. K. Regen, of Franklin, Tenn. The lettermen who were awarded stars include J. F.
Pinkney, of Canon City, Col.; E. E. Bohannon, of Davidson; T. S. Baker, of Jacksonville, Fla.; J. W. Anderson, of
Anderson, S. C.; G. F. Laird, of Decatur, Ga.; H. L. Vance, of Huntersville; J. H. McConnell, of Davidson; J.
P. Hendrix, of Greensboro; W. M. Black, of Davidson; L. M. Wells, of Fairmont; and W. H. Leggette, of Red
Springs.

SENIORS HOLD FIRST (Continued from page 1)

the next smoker, which will be held after Christmas, just before exams. The meeting was closed by the singing of
“O! Davidson” and “College Ties.”

We Sell Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods

MYERS HARDWARE & SPORTING GOODS COMPANY 18 East Trade St. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go

Display Room every Friday 10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.

Harrison Clothing Co. Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.
