THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

Davidsonian’s First Cross-Word Puzzle All Ready for Addicts of This Craze

True to its promise, The Davidsonian blares forth this week with its initial cross-country, cross-word puzzle. The cut was kindly
loaned by The Charlotte News. It was no one man’s job, and the concocter of the puzzle felt as though
he had been tramping a hundred miles in the Sahara desert with snowshoes on, when he finally put the last
little criss-crosser in the proper place. To the first hard worker who brings to the editor the correct solution, will
go the prize of a subscription to The Davidsonian for the rest of the collegiate year, the same CROSS-WORD to
be sent to any address given, that of the late Kaiser’s excepted. Although it is expected that every addict of
the cross-word craze will join in this merry game, the first one who presents the absolutely correct denouement will get
the grand prize. Those who bring their solutions later will receive honorable mention in the columns of this publication. Go
to it, fellows. The library makes no charge for the use of its dictionaries, and the power house will keep
the lights on all one?

PUZZLE

By Fred Smith

N. B.: (The D C in the center of the above means simply, DON’T CUSS).

HORIZONTAL
1—Eye-blackener.
4—A musical instrument.
7—A familiar salutation given to Eugene O'Neil.
11—What the winning runner breaks.
12—Past participle of “be”.
14—You are loved (Latin).
16—Cucumber-shaped object at Italian fruit stand.
18—Most exposed.
19—A slave ship.
20—Nickname of authoress of “Black Oxen.”
21—A merganser of northern Europe and Asia.
22—Low-down fellows who steal your girl's picture.
26—Form of “make”.
29—Used to weigh your gold ring (pl.)
31—Famous English author lately deceased.
33—Imitation pearls used for traffic with savage races.
34—That which carries blood to the veins.
35—Awful, dreadful, mournful.
36—What one has to be when he asks her father.
37—Manorial-estate (Eco studs, here’s your chance).
38—In addition to.
39—Railroad that (abbr.) leads to Jaybirdville.

VERTICAL
2—One who shares.
3—Tillie the Toiler.
4—A Junior with an Irish name (poss.)
5—"He’s a wonder, he’s a dream, He's the captain of our team.”
6—A son of the desert—the original sheik.
8—Romance told in meter.
9—Declines.
10—Gentleman pig.
11—A biblical weed that grew in the wheat.
13—Main part of cruciform church.
15—Enchanting.
17—When we make our good resolutions.
23—Condition of U. S. after prohibition hit us.
24—Second king of Israel (poss.)
25—Prefix meaning hard, firm.
26—Modern appellation for those gone buggy.
27—Crowning appendages of male reindeer.
28—First name of negro who figured in ante-bellum lawsuit.
29—A fine-toothed de-louser.
30—The part between you and the tobacco in a pipe.
31—What Mid-Victorians rode in.
32—What a peroxide blonde does.

FORMER CHAPLAIN IS “Y” SPEAKER NEXT SUNDAY

Rev. Charles B. Scovil, executive secretary of the department of religious education for the Episcopal church in North Carolina, will
speak at the vesper service of the Y. M. C. A next Sunday evening. He is a native of New
York, living at the present time in Concord, where he is a popular citizen. The Rev. Scovil is a graduate
of Columbia University and was chaplain of the 71st Infantry during the World War. At one time he was educational
secretary for the Episcopal church in Los Angeles.

SUNDAY SCHOOLS AFFECTED BY INCLEMENT WEATHER

The rain and inclement weather Sunday had a noticeable effect upon the attendance at the various rural Sunday schools, both
by the pupils and students who go from the college. Gibbs and Sims were the only ones who went to
Shearer chapel, and they report a very small attendance. Mr. Baker, of Mooresville, conducted the church services. Pritchett went to
Cornelius, and Christian to Hobson’s chapel. Roland Parker organized a class of older boys at the Mill chapel school, where
a good work is being done by the students. Franklin also attended this school. The convict camp was the only
place where the accustomed number of students went. Four students accompanied Piggy Martain, who spoke to the men there.

PRICE AND PATTERSON (Continued from page 1)

be secured at home and abroad, will be designed to enlarge the interest and deepen the conviction of the Christian
people at the home base as to their foreign mission responsibilities and obligations. Price and Patterson will attend as official
delegates, the number of which has been limited to 5,000. These men will take part in the Christian council that
has ever been held for the discussion of the vast problems that confront the missionary forces of the united churches
of North America. Opening the 28th of January, the convention will continue through February 2.

Regular Passes Are Not Good At Attractions Outside Regular Schedule

A recent announcement by Coach Younger, explaining definitely the matter of admission to games by season passes. By these passes,
to members of the faculty and to townspeople, according to Coach, other than the games, matches, and all freshmen games
are considered as extra attractions; and are not open to holders of season passes. The passes, however, will gain ready
entrance to any regular scheduled collegiate game. This special ruling has been stated, Coach Younger, in fairness to the college
students who pay a regular fee each term for the privilege of witnessing all athletic contests on the home grounds
without payment of admission. The season passes held by faculty members, townspeople and outsiders are gladly issued by the Athletic
Association; and will admit the holder to all regular scheduled contests, but for the extra attractions an admission fee must
be paid.

ADVICE (Continued from page 1)

from each of the professions, but the majority of them are business men. So it is extremely important that the
preacher know the needs and interests of the business man. The minister must be in sympathy with the business man,
must know his problems, both material and spiritual, and he must know his attitude toward the church. Business men criticize
the church severely, but the speaker remarked that during the several years that he had dealings in the business world,
he had never heard a business man say that he did not believe in Jesus Christ. They blame the church
for not doing things; they say that it is the most inefficient industry in the world; they blame the congregation
for not cooperating with the minister; and they censor it for using old methods, for not using modern business methods
in administration and the new teachings of psychology in teaching. Unfortunately, they have grounds for their complaints. The minister does
not hear these criticisms, and naturally does not know why he is not succeeding. Business men can talk over the
faults of the church among themselves, but they feel a little hesitant in telling a minister what they think of
his church and his methods. Another thing that bothers the business man is the inconsistency between the church and the
teachings of Christ. He cannot understand the clashes between churches, and denominational bitterness and hatred. The diversity of church customs
also stands in his way. But in it all, despite his troubles and perplexities, there is something tremendously important, which
strongly appeals to him. He is interested in Christ. Business men have great respect for men who know Christ. Therefore,
in order to appeal to the business man, to know his problems and to get him on the side of
the church, the minister must know Christ and apply His teachings. After Mr. Williams’ talk, Mrs. Williams gave a very
impressive reading from Henry Van Dyke, “The Toiling of Felix,” which was very appropriate, bearing out the thought that Mr.
Williams had expressed. The reading was much appreciated by all present.

LITERARY SOCIETIES (Continued from page 1)

mittee of faculty members will award this. This medal has not been given before, but as writing is as much
a part of literary work as speaking, it was decided to include it. As in the past, six men being
picked in a general contest, and one of these chosen at a later period when the finals are held. All
members who make an inter-collegiate debating team, with the exception of the alternates, are to be given a “Debating Emblem.”
The cost of the emblems will be borne jointly by all societies.

Big Nigger—“Black baby, it’s only the law that keeps my hands offen.”Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original
meaning and punctuation:

---

"Yes, it’s only the law that keeps your hands off a lot of things.”

Younger's night if necessary. Who will be the first statement, does not entitle the holder to admission to any athletic
contests scheduled collegiate games. The only weapon employed against him is made. But the minister too often does. The Junior
Orator’s medal will be awarded.

Coach Younger Explains About Athletic Passes On the War Path; Boys Lying Low! The scholastic standing of everyone on the
Hill will soon be placed at stake. With the advent of St. Valentine’s month comes the seary-eyed monster with fiery
breath who comes to wreak vengeance on the negligent little boys who while away their time with cross-word puzzles or
trips to Charlotte. This monster has little choice as to whom he attacks. He turns as stealthily upon Senior as
he does upon Freshman. The only hope of an average of 85 percent on his work. Those members of the
three lower classes are devoid of such weapon and must enter the combat, even to the death, unarmed but for
the skin of their teeth, the flash of their determined eyes, and the warlike color of their mentalities.

The first season of examination is the horror of the lowly Freshman who, in his verdancy, looks upon them as
undue search warrants employed by almost invertebrate supervisors who uncannily take pleasant advantage of the troublous days of the new
man. To the Sophomore, a season of examination is a charge to keep. Caring little whether he successfully meets the
demands of the day, the sophomoric weariness gradually wears him down until he submits to a season of cramming, ready
to fill to the utmost and, if possible, have just a little running over when the evil day comes and
combat can no longer be dodged. The Junior, looking weary-eyed, casually saunters up to the scene of the tilt for
he has thus successfully encountered the wild dragon of the semester’s end. As before, so will it continue to be.
He was victorious and the law of chances gives him as good an advantage in the next as he had
in the last. The grotesque being has no horror to the semi-dignified. But the blessed of all, Senior feels himself
most. His exemptions have encouraged him to practice the stroke and its parry throughout the year and through his incessant
practice and hot air system of advertising secret re-enactment of methods, he has felled the monster without a stroke in
the conflict. His record is clean and he can readily assume the position of the little bantam as he lustily
tells the world that it was he who did not kill cock robin.

Will the seary-eyed, soulfully anxious beast bear off spoils of war following his encounter or will he be overcome in
the fighting? Davidson is called upon to parry the strokes of the opponent thrust on its children by the grown-ups
of the place and cover with glory the war record of the clan on the scrolls of the College.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

Davidson defeated Carolina in the first basketball game of the season, by a score of 31-20. Roberts, of Davidson, was
the individual star of the game, scoring 17 of Davidson’s 31 points. Others who showed up well in this game
were Captain Dwight Chalmers and Schenk. Dwight Chalmers, who was captain of the basketball team, was also president of the
Y. M. C. A. and one of the most popular men on the campus. A full-length picture of him with
a write-up was carried in The Davidsonian. The basketball team left on the first of its three trips of the
season. This trip carried them through North Carolina, the other two taking them into Virginia and South Carolina respectively. On
these trips, teams such as V. M. I., Washington and Lee, N. C. State, Carolina, Furman, and Wofford, representative of
the South, were met.

Incomplete returns from the Million Dollar Campaign showed that the Davidson student body had subscribed $11,025, exceeding their quota of
$10,000. For this, they were rewarded with a holiday from chapel. This reminds the present Juniors and Seniors of the
$25,000 holiday they received during the campaign to raise money for the rebuilding of Chambers two years ago.

POETIZING PLAYS POPULAR PART PEPPING FOR EXAMS

Hear the cramming and the jamming of the math
By the students moving toward exams.
How they bite it, how they fight it
As they cram and cram.
But it wouldn't be so sad,
Not even half as bad,
If the cramming by the lad
Got the math.

Ah! the squeaking and the creaking of the Greek!
How the boys would like to know,
Just a little of lu-o!
But it’s all the same to them,
It might as well be Sam
For all the good it does to cram
The Greek.

What a mighty fuss phil-los
Has kept up all the year!
They almost killed the “pros”
By words of heavy threat,
But when that long exam
Ker-blams aloose and lams;
The prof will live you bet,
Just to phil-los-so-phise
On the dozen deadest boys.

The lawless Law and Law’s Eco
Will burn the candles down,
The “Psyke” and “Hist” and “Dutch”
Will ruin the mental power,
As they sit up by the hour just to cram.
Then it’s cram, cram and cram,
And it’s jam, jam and jam,
Ker-blankety, blank and blink;
As the boys cut the noise
And quit the bloomin’ racket
To fill their “beans”
With ways and means
To shoot the hardest profs
And pass exams.

I ain't no poet, you know,
I sho’ do know it fo’ sho’!
But all the same ole man
Just pass along a hand
And help me cram and cram.

CHARLOTTE BUSINESS MAN MAKES STIRRING ADDRESS

(Continued from page 1)

He explained that we must believe in Christ Jesus like the Hebrews believed in the serpent. “It is a personal
problem of accepting and believing in Jesus Christ.” Joining the church at 12 years of age, he was not a
Christian until he was 27. He had been a member of the church, but he had not accepted God with
simple and childlike faith. “In the judgment when asked ‘why they did not join the church, some will say there
were hypocrites in the church,” said Mr. Glasgow. “God will say ‘Sure,’ He knew it, but that is not your
problem.” He said ours was the problem of self, and quoted, “Except ye become as little children ye can in
no wise enter into the kingdom of heaven.”

A man cannot get an interview with Ford just because he has $50,000 in the bank. When a man says
he is rich, Jesus must say, “You cannot get an interview with me on money.” The Duke of Kent was
about to die. He was worried over his soul. His attendant told him that his record as a prince would
get him to heaven. “But,” he replied, “when I am saved, it will not be as a prince, but as
a sinner.” There is an old legend which tells that at the heavenly gate, the gatekeeper did not know Charles
of Hapsburg, King of Austria. Nor did he know Charles of Hapsburg, King of Hungary, but when Charles the sinner
applied, he was accepted. “The business world wants a man who is willing to stand true to his colors,” said
the speaker. The little girl’s prayer, “Now I lay me down to sleep” took him back to his childhood days,
and he said that the heritage of your home will be the bulwark that will make the man of you.

As a closing illustration, he told of a small boy walking along with his father. His father offered to help
him, but he said “No.” He came to a slick place and fell. He then asked his father to let
him hold on to his hand. But he was not strong, and he fell again. Then he asked his father
to hold his hand. When he slipped again his father helped him and he did not fall. We cannot walk
without God, and we ought not to hold on to Him, but ask Him to carry us through. He can
do it.

Bub Oeland was the leader, Piggy Martin led the singing, Wallace Purdy was the pianist, and J. S. Grey gave
a violin solo. J. F. Pinkney and Joe Garrison led the opening prayers, and Mr. Glasgow closed with prayer.
