THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite

W. G. SHIELDS
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service

H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

“Hello Man! Don’t forget my sister.”
“Bring Weisley’s.”

Insure your welcome with this wholesome, long-lasting sweet. Use it yourself when work drags. It is a great little treat.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S & W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Heads Up!
This misrepresentation of our fair co-editor guests appears at the head of the far-from-funny column not from any desire on
our part to slander the dear souls but rather and instead because this, we say in all modesty, is the
most popular section of this publication. At least it is the most widely read and most sincerely cussed —P. P.

A certain gay Lancelot went out for the evening. On his return, an interested party asked him where he had
been.
“I was in the company of my friend Tom Baker,” he replied in an unconcerned manner.
“Yeh,” shot back the interrogator, “and I suppose that powder on your lapel is Baking powder.”

Cop Johnson—"Here, how did you fall in that gutter?”
Souse—"I shaw two lamp posts, osshifer an’ I guess I leaned on the wrong one.”

If a girl reads you like a book she has probably put you on the shelf.

“Why do you go with Jack—he’s a bad egg.”
“That’s it. I'm afraid to drop him.”

Large numbers of Italian eggs are being imported into this country. We trust they are not the lays of Ancient
Rome. Both of these are rank and rotten. Let us satisfy our more esthetic nature with some of the neatest
little gags our scissors have ever clipped.

Joyner—"I want some medicine to reduce flesh.”
Shop Assistant—“Anti-fat?”
“No—uncle.”

Quizz
In he came.
Down he sat.
Saw the questions.
Up he got.

A grapefruit is only a lemon that saw its chance and made good.

Irate Student—"Here; look what you did!”
Helper—"I can’t see anything wrong with that lace.”
“Lace? Man, that was a sheet!”

Hodgins—“I entered a piano playing contest and played ‘Home Sweet Home’ for three weeks.”
Rice—“Did you win?”
H—“No, my dear, my opponent played ‘Stars and Stripes Forever.’”

Some folks think wall flowers are dumb so that they are decorations on wall paper.

Laws is a leading man in the movies now.
Yes?
Yeh—an usher.

And to revert to the original—

How Sad
Gone, not forgotten,
Last but not least;
Poor, but still honest,
For a king fit, this feast.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um!
Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

In everyday slang—'tis
A mighty punk line.
We write it to fill space,
And help you kill time.

Springtime—and we have those bothersome frogs in the throat.

Leaning on the Fat
In the interests of the American Anti-Fat and Anti-Lean Company, I hie myself to this rural village for the purpose
of interviewing such unique specimens and worthy subjects as I might find. Immediately I betook myself to the East Building
where I beheld a giant object on the roof which completely obliterated the sun's rays. Mounting to the roof via
the elevator, I found myself in the awe-inspiring presence of Pee-Wee McCravy. In a great bass voice, he told me
that his huge tonnage was due to the constant use of Earl courses. “Of course,” he said, “I intend to
enter Mr. Jingling Brothers’ circus some day, but at present I only wish to become as small as ‘Stugie’ Montgomery.”

My great wanderings brought me to Georgia where I advanced to the door of the renowned Mr. Montgomery. “Since I
eat only four meals a day I have succeeded in keeping my weight down to three hundred and forty pounds,”
he informed me. “My ambition at present is to bring my waistline to that point where I may secure a
Reduce Reduction Belt large enough to fit my ample proportions. Perhaps I may then become as small as Pee-Wee McCravy,
or be small enough to see my feet once more.”

Next, I did go to the Restaurant of Greek origin where I was told I might find he of the
Stowe family. I came upon him as he was rapidly consuming four meals. “Perhaps you would be interested...in my anti-fat
concoctions?”

“No,” he gurgled, “there is no ounce of superfluous flesh upon my frame. That which you presume to be my
stomach is simply an extension of my giant chest which has had outgrown its bounds and taken in further fields
of development.”

I went to see one known for his military fame, and addressed by the cognomen of “Squad Joyner.” The place
was entirely deserted when I arrived. A few straggling groups were viewing the building afar off. I gazed in amazement
at its antics. It heaved and swayed and seemed on the verge of collapse. I girded up my courage and
entered, taking what I thought to be my last look at the sun. There in a long corridor lay a
great bulk. The length thereof was four cubits and the breadth thereof was four cubits and also the height thereof
was four cubits. There could be no mistake. It was the “Squad.” His great body shuddered with emotion, and gallons
of tears rolled from his huge eyes.

“What can be the cause of this show of feeling, my little fellow?” I asked.

“I am ashamed,” he sobbed. “I can never tell you.”

Vainly I beseeched him, but the door of his mouth was shut. Finally, with one great sob he moaned, “Ah
it is this, I am ashamed because the minuteness of my calves prohibits me from wearing knickers.”

I awoke in the hospital.

“I guess I'm going to be an undertaker after all,” said the hobo, snatching a pair of B. V. D.’s
off the line.

“Never give up!” cried the man who was sitting in the street car. And the women stood up for their
rights.

Claytor—“Are you the man who cut my hair last time?”

“I couldn’t be, sir, I’ve only been here a year.”

---

The Charlotte Observer Will Publish Special Edition

Davidson R. O. T. C. Unit Will be Given Place of Distinction in Issue

The Progress and Prosperity Edition of the Charlotte Observer, which will be published on May 18, will contain a full
page on the military activities in and of the state of North Carolina. This special number of the Charlotte paper
is to cover all subjects of interest to its readers in this section. The various institutions will each receive attention
at the hands of writers engaged in those particular occupations. The Davidson College unit of the R. O. T. C.
is given creditable mention under the Reserve Officers Training Corps in this locality. Captain G. H. Weems has supervised that
part of the paper containing the account of military affairs besides writing a brief account of the purpose and history
of students’ training at Davidson College. Editors of the “Observer” have been carefully planning their special edition of the paper
for some time and expect to make it a commendable issue, according to reports from those especially connected with the
work. Only the required number of copies will be printed, and orders must be in the hands of the “Observer”
on or prior to May 10. The cost will be 30 cents a copy.

---

INFIRMARY NEWS

The following students are in the infirmary with the mumps now: Townsend, H. A. Stewart, Don, Douglas, W. D. Frazer,
H. A. and Forbes, W. K. Frank Alford, a member of the varsity baseball team, was operated on for appendicitis
at the Charlotte Sanatorium two weeks ago and is back on the hill and is ready to resume his studies.

Most unusual was the Wake Forest Freshman game in which there were 21 assists made by the Baptists. The first
baseman had 16 putouts, so most of the Wildcats were laying them down in the infield.

---

COLUMBIA THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY
COLUMBIA, S. C.
Established 1828
Centennial in Atlanta

Columbia Seminary offers:
Scholarly Instruction
Practical Training
Spiritual Environment
Helpful Contacts
Missionary Zeal
Evangelistic Fervor
Sympathetic Cooperation
Wholesome Food
Comfortable Dormitories
Reasonable Expenses
Ideal Climate
Atmosphere of Southern Culture

Correspondence Solicited
RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

---

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

---

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.

---

“Mothers’ Day” May the 10th. Remember Her
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

---

BALLS
BATS
GLOVES
CLOTHING
EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS
STUDENT'S STORE
R. O. SELLARS
