6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1925

WILDCAT DOPE

Tilson’s Cowboys End Loop Season With Flash Win Six Straight Games as Team. Takes Two From Hickory and Valdese on
Hill Trips

Coach Tex Tilson’s Cowboys ended a highly successful season by winning all three games in their western trip last week.
The three victories were scored over Valdese, Hickory Athletic Club, and Mooresville High School. Formerly, victories were made over Hornet’s
Nest Riflemen, Long Creek, and Mooresville High, giving the Cowboys a record of six wins out of six games, and
demonstrating that Coach Tex’s scrubs had some real power in their playing.

Cowboys-Valdese, Feb. 2

Opening up their tour with a bang, Coach Tex’s Cowboys ran away with Valdese and piled up a 40-10 score
against them. The brilliant guarding of Goodykoontz and the spectacular shooting of Faucette were the features of the contest. Goodykoontz
had the difficult job of guarding Simpson, former Trinity College star. Simpson for more than one year was picked as
All-State, and is one of the best players in the entire State. However, Goodykoontz apparently did not take all this
very seriously, for he refused to allow the former star a single point. Faucette showed clearly his good scoring ability
by getting a total of 26 points out of the 40.

Cowboys-Hickory, Feb. 3

The following night Coach Tex took his scrubs up to Hickory to play the second game of the western trip.
The Cowboys had no easy task before them for they had their opponents the powerful and fast quint representing the
Hickory Athletic Club which had already proven to be an exceptionally good team. The Cowboys began and continued throughout the
initial half with the same excellent playing which they had displayed at Valdese the night before, ending the half with
the favorable score of 16-4. But in the final half, Hickory rallied and pulled up their score almost even with
the scrubs. With desperate fighting, the scrubs were able to stall off Hickory and emerged from the game winners by
a 20-17 score.

Cowboys-Mooresville, Feb. 5

The final game of the trip proved comparatively easy to the scrubs when they defeated Mooresville High School by the
clear-cut score of 32-14. Mooresville was never able to furnish any marked opposition during the game and it was only
in the last half that they could make the contest even mildly interesting. Davidson held the lead during the entire
game, and literally smothered the high school in the first half by playing rings around them to the tune of
18-1. Mooresville apparently found themselves in the last half and played well. For the scrubs, Faucette played the best game
and was easily the star of the contest.

NORMAN PATTERSON CAPTAINS MATMEN

At a meeting of the wrestling team held just before leaving for the meet with Navy, Norman G. Patterson was
elected to lead the Wildcat grapplers for the remainder of the season. Patterson has been on the team for the
past three years, and has made a good record in the 159-pound class. Phil Cox was elected to manage the
team at the same time. He succeeded Patterson, who was elected to the position of captain. Cox has only been
on the team since last year, but has won his letter and has shown his worth in the 140-pound class.
The wrestling team has started the year well, winning three out of the four meets held. N. C. State was
lay in Raleigh last Saturday night, and Concord “Y” has been defeated twice this year. The team lost to Navy,
considered the best team in the country. Saturday night the team meets Y.P.I. at Davidson, and next week Carolina is
to be here. Other meets are being negotiated, but arrangements have not been definitely made.

The Fighting Wildcats

FLAKE LAIRD

Football D* Basketball D* Baseball D

Flake is probably the best all-round athlete on the campus. Hailing from the “State of Baseball Players,” he not only
excels in that sport but in football and basketball also. When he came to Davidson he broke into the field
of sports during football season. In his “Fresh” year he intercepted a forward pass thereby enabling Davidson to tie V.
P. I. when she was considered an easy victim. Ever since this incident he has been considered as one of
the biggest factors of Davidson's attack. In the past season he kicked two goals, thereby paving the way for Davidson
to tie N. C. State and in the U.N.C. game his punts saved Davidson from being scored on many times.
However, his toe is only one of the factors that make him a star on the gridiron. He is fine
on interference, a sure tackler, and has played both in the backfield and in the line with great success.

When Flake dons his basketball uniform and goes on the court, one at once notices his powerful physique. He plays
forward and is one of the steadiest players on the team. Whenever the ball is loose, Flake is after it
and few are the times that he does not succeed in getting it. His passing and co-operation with his teammates
have caused many goals to be counted for his Alma Mater.

Scarce indeed are the players who feel confidence when they face Flake on the diamond. Due to his pitching ability
and his knack of summing up his opponents, he is one of the Wildcats’ mainstays in baseball. We are looking
to you this spring, Flake.

Flake’s popularity is not only shown when he is engaged in some game, but he is also very popular on
the campus. He was on the Student Council in his Sophomore year and is a member of the Kappa Sigma
fraternity.

W. M. BLACK

Football D*

In the 1924 football summary, The Davidsonian referred to Black as “the most reliable man of the team, playing a
perfect defensive game, and at times showing wonderful drive.” This powerful and versatile fullback was unquestionably the most consistent gainer
of the Wildcat machine. His specialty is a dynamic smashing drive near the center of the opponents' line which time
and time again, with little or no interference, has carried him straight through and over a mass of beef, which
against an ordinary back would be impregnable. Practically always when a few yards were desperately needed for first down, Black
was the man that took the ball; and Black was the man who often made a punt needless on the
following down. With all this amazing power and drive, Black has only the ordinary weight of 161 pounds, which is
much less than the average fullback. One can appreciate this wonderful drive only when he sees Black in a stubborn
game, cutting and smashing through an apparent wall of opposing weight.

Wick is probably the most versatile player on the Davidson eleven. His alternation with Sappenfield in the passing attacks has
been the immediate and direct cause of victory in several instances. At Pinehurst with only six minutes to play and
the Wildcats trailing in the score, Black, who before had been plowing and tearing through the Wolfpacks, dropped back on
the Wildcats’ 20-yard line and took the entire State eleven off its feet by sending a pass straight to Hendrix,
who went seventy-five yards before he was downed. Then Wick became the receiver and went 18 yards on a pass
from Sappenfield, only to carry it over the following down on a line-smash. In the Trinity game, Wick again surprised
his opponents by his stone alternation with Sappenfield, and the winning touchdown was the result.

In the kicking department of the game, Black has proven the surest man for the try-for-point (missing only one attempt
in the entire season), an excellent and steady man for the kick-off, and a splendid drop-kicker. In total points scored,
he ties with Hendrix; while in total ground gained, he is among the three leaders. The town of Davidson claims
Wick as a worthy member of the Black family which furnishes the Wildcats with his long-remembered brother of the 1917
eleven. Wick is a Junior, and even greater things are expected from him next year.

SPRING FOOTBALL SQUAD PASSES CENTURY MARK

Coach Tilson Sending Candidates

Davidson Yearlings Leave on State Trip

The Davidson yearlings are being rounded into condition in preparation for a hard week when they leave Monday to play
Oak Ridge, Wake Forest, Duke and N. C. State on a trip and play Oak Ridge here on Saturday.This gives
the Kittens five hard games in six days. The hardest game is expected with the Duke freshmen who are undefeated
this season and the Davidson Freshmen will go into the game with a plucky spirit. The Wildkittens have been working
hard for the past month and seem to be getting into fair condition as shown by the pre-season games played
with high schools. The team seems to be well balanced on the defense and the offense, and although the team
is still not what it could be, it has shown a great deal of improvement. Out of the raw bunch
of days, Coach Rawson has developed a smooth running team that will play hard in the coming games. The squad
is in fairly good condition with a few men out with minor injuries. Milner, one of the most dependable offensive
men, has been out for a few days but is expected to be in good form for the next game.
Others are having trouble with their feet but are gradually toughening up.

The men who will make the trip will be Milner, McColgan, Hall, Maulden, Weld, and Morris forwards; Harrison, Brown, McAuley,
Upton, and Johnston guards; Wilson and Oden centers.

More Money Needed to Feed Famous Wildcat

Davidson is not only in possession of a very ferocious wildcat, but also a very ravenous and fastidious one. If
this son of the jungle is going to uphold the fighting spirit, he must eat. However, his sole diet seems
to be rabbits and chickens. Nor will he have any of the boarding house variety. He must have the living
article to make sure that no old tires or many-winged creatures are palmed off on him. This makes the cat
a standing liability to the school of more than one dollar a week, so that numerous collections must be made
for his support. Last Wednesday morning almost five dollars was extracted from the student body after an urgent request by
Ted Covington, president of the Athletic Association. This sum will be turned over to Charlie, the feline’s official guardian, for
the purchase of such food as the cat may need. The privilege of interviewing his majesty within his lair will
be accorded to anyone contributing as much as two shillings six pence to his upkeep. The management also offers an
exemption to the parties from future collections either intimidating the monster or making him more vicious than he is at
present.

Spring football training has reached a new high water mark at Davidson, one hundred uniforms have been issued. This means
that nearly twenty percent of the student body is out for football. Such remarkable football zeal has never been shown
before in the Wildcat lair. This strong showing of likely candidates for next season's varsity makes Davidson football stock take
quite a jump. The training is under the direction of Coach Tex Tilson, since Coach Younger has his hands full
with the varsity basketball team. A regular game is to be played each Saturday in March between what appears to
be the two strongest squads. With the exception of Seniors and basketball men, all of last year’s varsity squad is
out on the gridiron and nearly every member of the Fresh squad is out for the training. The Freshmen present
a very formidable aggregation this year and several of them may earn the coveted “D” next season. Besides these men,
there is a wealth of new material from which several future stars ought to be developed. From all indications of
the pep and keen competition that is being shown on the field, Davidson will have a football team next year
that may even surpass the record made by the team of this fall.

The list of men practicing each afternoon is as follows: C. G. Allen, C. R. Anderson, J. W. Anderson, H.
M. Arnett, T. S. Baker, Charles Baskerville, E. Belk, H. C. Bridgers, E. M. Black, J. T. Bowers, A. B.
Brown, W. A. Foe, M. P. Crawford, M. Currie, J. M. Dew, C. B. DuBose, S. Irwin, H. A. Fraser,
R. A. Glenn, H. F. Glenn, P. J. Garrison, W. W. Grey, W. O. Green, J. P. Harrowood, S. R.
Grey, Harmon, H. H. Jennings, J. A. Joyner, P. F. Jones, J. A. King, W. H. Kornegay, H. L. Laws,
W. H. Leggette, R. L. Lincoln, C. A. Long, D. A. McComb, Joe McConnell, Riggs McConnell, E. R. McConnell, D.
R. McEachern, T. E. McGeachy, Ralph McMillan, Robert McMillan, Lawrence McNeil, R. L. Mitchell, J. E. Moore, S. W. More,
M. A. Morrison, W. O. Nesbit, Ed O’Neal, Camp O'Neal, J. G. Ornsby, J. A. Overton, W. C. Penn, H.
T. Peterson, J. F. Pinkney, C. K. Poole, J. C. Pressley, J. L. Rice, C. F. Rowe, N. S. Sappenfield,
W. S. Sells, G. R. Sims, A. F. Simpson, C. F. Spainhour, H. G. Stewart, M. A. Stowe, C. T.
Stowe, R. M. Thompson, C. C. Hane, W. D. Turner, O. P. Wearn, L. W. Wells, G. M. White, Hugh
Wells, Ed. Wilson, Sam Withers, K. V. Woodham, G. F. Houck, R. B. Menzies, Jack Caldwell, R. Dulin, E. Bonhannon,
W. T. Covington, J. C. Stigler, J. D. Welborn, D. G. Shaw, A. S. Rose, J. R. Babb, and R.
L. Mauney.

VOLUNTEER CONFERENCE

(Continued from page 1)

The leadership of L. B. Gibbs is planning to have Davidson well represented, but the delegates have not been chosen.
Free entertainment will be given to all delegates by the people of Chapel Hill and the University authorities, but this
does not include meals, which will be served at cost to all delegates in the University dining hall. This plan
will bring about a better feeling of fellowship throughout the conference. John W. Westbrook, Jr., of Duke University, is president
of the state organization. H. B. Price, president of the Davidson Y. M. C. A., is treasurer.

Freshmen who reported before the holidays will be picked from the following:

NEXT YEAR TO SEE CHANGE IN F. BUS

(Continued from Page 1)

Bailey graduated at Davidson College with the class of 1922. It is probable that Prof. E. A. Beatty will be
assistant in English next year. He received his A.B. degree from Davidson, M.A. from the University of South Carolina, and
B.D. from the Columbia Theological Seminary. These changes in the faculty will enable Davidson to accommodate the larger student body
which is expected.

The First Sign of Spring

We are bringing the first sign of Spring up to your college on Tuesday, Feb. 17. It will consist of
the newest things in young men’s wearing apparel. Drop in to see us at 103 West, and we'll be glad
to show you even if you don’t want to buy anything.

MELLON’S

Patronize Our Advertisers

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
