4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF ‘15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD SMITH Editor-in-Chief
W. H. BRANCH Business Manager
W. H. BRANCH Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER Business Staff
A. Y. BOWIE Business Manager
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH Assistant Business Manager
GARNETT McMILLAN Circulation Manager
H. D. BURK Subscription Manager
W. H. LYNCH Subscription Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER Solicitor
E. D. WITHERSPOON Solicitor
J. M. GARRISON Assistant
C. W. WILLIAMS Service Department
V. S. BROYLES Reporters’ Club
E. L. DOUGLASS G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
B. MARTIN C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT H. M. AUSTIN
J. E. MOORE F. K. BELL
E. K. REGEN C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY D. M. CALHOUN
J. B. THOMPSON W. T. COVINGTON
J. B. WEBB W. T. DAVIS
J. G. WHARTON E. L. DOUGLASS
R. WILSON F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

The thin red line not only held but it yielded a mean thrust at the opposition Saturday.

All the organizations are getting up speed for the annual grind of winter. New members being taken in every day
and enthusiasm is at its peak.

The old campus will look rather lonesome when all the fraternities move off the hill. Already one can discern the
difference with two frats in winter quarters in the residential section of the city.

A fine spirit has been shown by several students who have taken it upon themselves to welcome the visiting teams
to the campus. This will make for a better camaraderie between the local teams and the visitors who come here
for various contests, both athletic and literary.

The janitorial staff of Davidson College was represented in toto at the Baptist-Presbyterian set-to in Charlotte Saturday. Their lusty cheers
lent a welcome sound to the cheers of the students.

The students will be glad when some of the concerts and entertainments that have been given in the past, will
again be staged in the local auditorium. Such diversions make one’s college life worth living.

The “Y” column which is started this week will prove an interesting bit of reading to those who are interested
in this work. That includes all of us. We will not go wrong by backing the Y. M. C. A.
to the limit.

Captain Weems, in talking to some of the students Sunday, said that undoubtedly the Davidson students, in proportion to their
numbers, had the most spirit and best yelling that he ever heard anywhere. That sounds pretty good, fellows, for the
Captain has been to more than one football game, and has seen some large teams clash. Let’s keep that old
spirit going and stay right behind the team.

And Chester Monk had a lot to do with that cheering Saturday. He kept right behind us, making us let
the fellows on the field know that we were pulling with all our might. Monk is a good cheer-leader, but
he cannot do the yelling, too, so let’s back him up in his yells.

STATE CLUBS

Ever since Davidson began to draw students from neighboring states, it has been the custom for the students from each
state to band themselves together in a club named after the state from which its members come. The custom is
undoubtedly a good one as it affords each man the opportunity to come in close communion with the men of
his own state. This is especially true of the new men entering every year, thus lightening the inevitable “homesickness” of
the Freshmen.

The usual meeting place of these clubs is either in the Eumanean Hall or at the Hotel, or at some
other convenient place where the men discuss plans for encouraging more students to make application at Davidson. Impromptu speeches are
given and each club desires to accomplish something toward a better and greater Davidson.

A remarkable fact about these state clubs is that there is absolutely no rivalry between them, their one aim is
to further the interests of the school by persuading the kind of men to enter they think would make Davidson
respected and admired wherever they are known. When an organization has such for its purpose, it is little wonder that
it is live and growing stronger each year.

This year Tennessee, Georgia, South Carolina, and Alabama have formed such clubs and several feeds have been given by the
respective clubs. Programs have been outlined and will be carried out during the coming year.

MUSICAL PEP

To the team goes credit for Saturday’s victory. We're mighty proud of the boys who fought and won after they
had theoretically been whipped by Wake Forest. There’s always a mysterious “something” present though every time the Wildcats take the
field. This is defined, under one head or another, as Davidson Spirit. And that’s about the best we can define
the “something” as far as defining goes.

It’s well occasionally to call time out from the lengthy and abstract discussions of a quality and try to figure
out one or two of the factors producing it. Spirit—cheering—pep? Sort of related, aren’t they. In fact might be called
members of one great family. But let’s chase down the reason for the cheering and pep. The game itself keeps
up the spirit very largely—sure. But listen, fellows, how about Captain Weems’ R. O. T. C. orchestra? There we are.
Like the timer on a car, we need OUR band to start things and keep them moving. We could sing
“O Davidson!” without the band; but we couldn’t hand it out 100 percent the way it should be sung without
the snappy Rotsee band to put the “ring” in this part of our cheering.

Spirit—pep—cheering. Nothing like ’em for winning games. And the Captain and his band are one factor, and a large one,
in the makeup of that distinctive Wildcat quality known all over as “Davidson Spirit.” So hats off to the college
band and Captain Weems.

CHAMPIONSHIPS

Perhaps it is a little too early to talk of a championship team, but since Davidson has tied Wake Forest,
who was supposed to have had one of the best teams in the South, why should we lose a single
game this year? We play Furman in Charlotte and State on Richardson Field, and the entire Student Body is going
to domicile at Chapel Hill November 14th, with such support as the Student Body gave their team Saturday at Wearn
Field can it not help to put their team at the top of the South Atlantic schools? North Carolina has
beaten South Carolina, Furman has whipped W. and L., we have a clean slate so far, let us, the students
of old Davidson, support our team.

FINAL CHORDS

Striving, striving, ever upward,
Help us Lord to reach to thee,
Struggling, we press feebly onward,
O God, help us to be free.

Lord, the Light of love above us,
Great majestic Trinity;
Lord be gracious if Thou love us,
Help us, O Divinity.Team with all our power and help carry the Red and Black machine to the peak of
North Carolina football fame. God help us grow as Thou hast spoken, Upward, searching for the light; Falling often, soiled
and broken, Feeling still Thy mercy bright, May we grow from sins around us, Reaching up continually; Like Thy trees,
that still astound us, Up to Thee eternally.

There is talk around the campus that such teams as Georgia Tech, V. M. I., Sewanee, and W. and L.
will be on our ’26 card. Surely the Student Body and all the alumni would be glad to hear such
an announcement. Is that not the only way to build up a football reputation? It was only a few years
ago that those teams appeared regularly on our schedule. We cannot admit that they have gotten out of our realm.
We know our team could give any of them the fight they always have expected from a Wildcat team,—shall we
not once more let some of the larger Southern teams appear on our card?

T. G. McCutcheon: A SONNET

Time may change the bloom of perfect youth Into a withered waste of parting years, Carving on each stone a
golden truth To save a loved one from the strain of tears; It may heal forever the broken heart, Or
strengthen bonds of friendship yet untold; It may play the hateful tyrant’s part And darkest secrets from the lover hold.
Yea, but not one whit will I diverge From love's unselfish, undeceitful way; Not one doubt will ever my mind
discourage: My blackest night will be as brightest day, For my Love is true, my Love is pure; Her word’s
sublime, her heart is mine—I’m sure.

H. L. SHELBY.

SUNDAY AFTERNOONS

These beautiful Sunday afternoons that we have had since we have been at Davidson this fall, are of the type
that make one want to hie into the great out-of-doors and commune with nature. But, the reverse seems to be
true with a large number of boys who evidently prefer to stay in their rooms and play languidly with a
deck of cards than to go out for a walk. Why it is, we don’t understand. But there must be
something wrong with a fellow who would prefer to stay indoors, bending over a card-littered table than to follow a
wooded ridge, or walk a pine-clad slope that lies beyond the far hills. There is so much of the beautiful
in the country beyond. These glorious fall days are the kind that are made for long tramps and friendly communion.
Certainly indoor sports should not debar one from going abroad, if kings and queens do present a kindlier face than
a scarlet oak or silver maple.

MARY AND LAMB NO. 43296

Mary had a little lamb, Its breath was nice and clean, For every day she sprinkled its hay With a
bottle of Listerine.

DAVIDSONIAN MOVES TO ENLARGED QUARTERS

The Davidsonian has at last been able to obtain an office that will enable it to perform its work in
adequate quarters. The college officials have turned over Dr. J. M. McConnell’s old classroom in Shearer Hall to the staff
to be used as an office. As they have very little equipment, the office has not yet been fixed. However,
as soon as material is obtained, the staff hopes to do most of their work, such as typewriting, in the
office. Previous to this time, the Davidsonian has been confined to a small room back of the fire department. But
all of the real work has been done by the staff in their individual rooms. With one large room for
all, the staff will no doubt be able to become better organized and put out a better Davidsonian.

It is not a good thing to let football scores and reports go to one’s head to such an extent
that the more important figures in the textbooks will be forgotten. Sports are all right where they belong but they
cannot entirely take the place of studies.

The wildcat still craves a decent place to lay his head. The visitors to the campus all want to see
him but they seldom can, hidden as he is behind a dense grating, in a small cage. He needs a
little fraternity house all his own.

WILD, WILD POPPY

Mandy—“Sis’ Callie Flukes, how come dat baby ob yourn eyes stick out so much?” Callie—“His eyes is jes’ lak his
pop’s.” Mandy—“I see. He’s pop-eyed.”

I call my flivver pyorrhea because one out of every five has one.

Let's sing a sad lay For poor Donald Ransom. He got shot in the mouth When he looked through the
transom.

“I'm reforming,” said Fresh Purdie as he took his eleventh of the daily dozen in order to improve his figure.

Ole Mr. Wildcat predicts that there is going to be some shoulder shaking and quaking in Quaker Town, when the
cohorts of William Penn invade our campus Saturday, to the tune of the echoes of last week's game.

“What did you do when Bill Story turned out the light and kissed you?” “I told him I never wanted
to see his face again.”

“Now, what are you stopping for?” “I’ve lost my bearings.” “Well, at least you are original. Most fellows run out
of gas.”

Lillie—“Chester Monk must have been awfully fond of animals when he was young.” Tillie—“What makes you think so?” Lillie—“The way
he pets.”

COTTON GIN DAVIS

Kimbro—“What’s that lint all over your coat, W. T.?” Davis—“Oh, that darn sweater that you gave your girl sheds.”

It is no crime for women to wear golf knickers, but it is for some men to. How about it,
Roseberry?”

DUMBNESS, THY NAME IS CRINKLEY

Hunt McLeod—“Who’s your favorite football player, Crinkley.” Crinkley—“Lon Chaney.” Runt—“He don’t play football.” Crink—“Oh, yes he does. He plays hunchback
on Notre Dame.”

HALITOSIS

Mary had a little lamb, Its breath was nice and clean, For every day she sprinkled its hay, With a
bottle of Listerine.

A SURE WAY

Him—“Haven’t we met before?” Her—“Kiss me and I'll see.”

We've all been wondering why Hermit Alexander had his head shaved last week, and it took three days to figure
it out, but at last we solved the mystery. He heard that there was a vacancy in the R. O.
T. C., and that a second lieutenant was needed. He also found out that the man to be chosen must
be a Junior. Aspiring to get this coveted position he decided to make his personal appearance as much like that
of a shave-tail lieutenant as possible. So there you are. We wish you best o’ luck, Hermit.

Anyone can tell you a dozen different stories about ladies who “high-hatted” them, but you can’t beat the one that
J. A. Law could tell if he only would. Between halves at the Wake Forest game in Charlotte last Saturday
several good-looking skirts started up the bleachers toward him. Feeling a gallant impulse steal over his fifth vertebra he hopped
up, jerked out his handkerchief, dusted off the vacant seat beside him, and offered it to the first damsel who
came up. With a slight toss of her auburn-covered head she stepped upon the newly-cleaned seat, not preparatory to sitting
upon it, but only using it as a means to get on “higher ground.” Never say die, Law, just fight
’em all the harder. All of them are not named Hannah.

BON AMI

Don’t count your chiggers before you scratch.

IKEY, IKEY

Did you ever stop to think that a fortune awaits the man who invents an adjustable wedding-ring? Get to work,
fellows.

F. K. B.

The gladsome sight of week-end visiting girls will be a relief after seeing so many masculine forms. The sight of
these fair visitors will help a lot in relieving the tedium of lessons, football, and other fellows.
