THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

Mrs. A. C. DeVane’s condition has improved very much in the last 10 days.

We Invite Your Business

Town News

Mrs. Weldon Schenk and son, Fairchild, will go in a few days to Greensboro. Mrs. Fraser Hood has returned from
a visit of several weeks to Water Valley, Miss. Mrs. Reid, and son and daughter, James and Marjorie, have returned
from their Christmas trip to Oklahoma. The Civic Club met on Tuesday afternoon at the League rooms. Mr. Jackson addressed
the members on improvements in the town, made during the last year.

INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”

Mrs. W. R. Grey and Mrs. F. K. Fleagle spent Wednesday in Statesville, attending a meeting of the Executive Committee
of Concord Presbyterial. Mrs. L. R. Brady, after a residence of many years in Davidson, has gone to take up
new work at Crossnore, as assistant to Mrs. Sloop there. It will be remembered that Sam Brady, her son, was
one of the staunchest warriors who ever wore a “D.” Mrs. Brady has a host of friends, both among the
townspeople and among the students, who knew her in the years which she spent here. All join in wishing her
the best contentment and fullest joy in her new work.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Wallace Purdy was leader of the meeting of the C. E. Training Class on last Sunday afternoon in what proved
to be one of the liveliest meetings in some months. The subject for discussion was The New Year. After an
inspirational song and prayer service came a number of talks bearing on the topic under discussion. Among the speakers were:
Yancey Bowie, Charles McRae, Roland Parker, Gallent, and Davis, each of whom presented his phase of the subject in a
timely and thought-provoking manner. Bill Covington gave the report of the information committee. A song and the Mizpah benediction marked
the close of the program.

The C. E. Training Class is planning to materially extend the field of its activities during the spring semester. It
expects to interest itself especially in conferences and deputations. The ambitious program planned shows that the C. E. T. C.
has been fortunate in the choice of its officers for the current year. They are: W. E. Milton, president; A.
H. Hollingsworth, vice-president; Malloy Calhoun, secretary; W. T. Covington, treasurer.

TAILORED AT FASHION PARK
$45.00 and More
Don’t Forget to Patronize Our Advertisers
COURTESY OF FASHION PARK

A Blizzard Protection with a Drawing Room Distinction

Doctor Harding is Host at Reception Thursday
Student Leaders, Members of Local Clubs and Faculty, Delightfully Entertained

The reception given by Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding on last Thursday evening from 8:30 to 10:30, in the
new Maxwell Chambers Hotel, was a most brilliant and enjoyable affair. The guests, 90 in number, were the members of
the Davidson faculty, the members of the Thelemite and Book Lovers’ clubs, and the heads of the different student activities,
as representatives of the student body.

The receiving line was composed of the following: Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding, Captain and Mrs. R. G. Daugherty,
Professor and Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Professor and Mrs. O. J. Thies, Mr. and Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld, Professor and
Mrs. F. K. Fleagle, Professor and Mrs. W. B. Mebane, Mr. and Mrs. D. B. Van Sant, and Mr. and
Mrs. J. P. Williams.

After the guests had arrived Doctor Harding, as master of ceremonies, announced a short program. Mrs. Daugherty delighted her audience
with two solos. Professor Wachter then entertained the guests with two humorous readings. Later in the evening Mrs. Daugherty again
sang a number of songs. The guests took their places at the tables which had been provided for them. A
four-course dinner of grapefruit, turkey and accessories, ice cream and cake, and coffee, was served. A spirit of jollity and
good fellowship prevailed throughout the evening. Dr. and Mrs. Harding were most genial hosts, and the occasion was one of
importance in the social life of Davidson.

APPOINTMENTS PRECEDE INSPECTION BY COLONEL

The following promotions and appointments in the R. O. T. C. Battalion are announced: To be second lieutenants: D. G.
Wilson, T. S. Baker, B. U. Ratchford, and H. Y. Alexander. To be first sergeants: L. L. Deck, C. E.
Houston, G. W. Smith, and A. S. Jones. To be color sergeants: J. E. Moore and S. W. Moore. To
be ser-Sergeants: W. A. Christian, G. R. Simms, R. G. Faucette, J. F. Pinkney, and V. S. Broyles. To be
colored corporals: F. E. Lingle, and R. E. Faucette. To be corporals:

When the program had been completed, the society adopted the resolutions proposed by the Forensic Council. Ray, of the Metrophilian
society, spoke for a few minutes in behalf of this measure.

Metrophilian

The subject for debate at the Metrophilian Literary Society last Tuesday night was, Resolved, That the professors of Davidson College
should be pensioned at the age of sixty-two. On the affirmative were Thomson and McDaniel, while Hand and Thomson defended
the negative. The speeches were limited to five minutes. The speeches, although brief, were delivered well and showed preparation. Many
valuable points were brought out on both sides. The judges, R. McRae, Bradford, and C. McRae, decided unanimously in favor
of the negative. McLeod told some amusing anecdotes. The critic postponed his report until the next meeting.

Philanthropic

At the regular meeting of the Phi Society Thursday, January 8, an interesting program was carried out. The main debate,
Resolved, That capital punishment should be abolished by federal statute, was upheld by C. G. Davis and J. C. Barrington
on the affirmative, and C. E. Houston, Jr., and C. C. McMillan on the negative. After discussion on both sides,
the judges rendered a decision in favor of the affirmative.

On the extemporaneous debate, Resolved, That all Juniors making an average of 85 should be exempt from examinations, Baker upheld
the negative and won the decision against A. B. Williford on the affirmative. After the debate, B. U. Ratchford delivered
an interesting oration on the subject The Military Policy of the United States. In this oration, Ratchford went into elaborate
details of the military system of the United States and imparted some important information.

In the band—to be sergeants: T. F. Staley and J. S. McRae. To be corporals: J. P. Gladney and J.
Z. McDaniel. The addition of these new officers and non-commissioned officers gives the battalion a full complement of officers and
non-commissioned officers. Captain Weems stated that the promotions and appointments are made with a view to giving as many upperclassmen
as possible training in command and leadership. No other appointments will be made during the year except to fill such
vacancies as may occur.

On Saturday, January 17, Col. F. W. Rowell, R. O. T. C. officer of the Fourth Corps Area, will arrive
in Davidson to inspect the local R. O. T. C. unit. Davidson's standing this year will depend to a large
extent on his impressions gathered at this time.

At a supper held at the Tech Y. M. C. A. on the evening of November 24, a Texas Club
was organized. About 25 cowboys were present. Each member introduced himself, giving the name of the ranch from which he
hailed. It was decided to hold semi-monthly round-ups here at Tech, the cowboys to come dressed in their home style
clothes, such as ten-gallon hats, bandanas, and spurs. General talks were made by some of the members. Especially was the
talk by Cowboy “Buffalo” Kennedy enjoyed. Their round-up marked the successful organization of a club that is to be heard
from on the Tech campus as long as Tech is to draw students from the wildest state in the Union,
according to the Texans.—Technique.

Chemist of Skill, investigate! Answer this quiz of mine. I think I know what Carbonate, But where did Iodine? —Lehigh
Burr.

Who's Which and Why
Niagara Falls
Allhanson Deck
Buster Brown
Ima Hunter
Iva Littlejohn
Morris Chair
High Price
Oil Wells
H. G. Wells
Cox Comb
Flour Miller
Justa Little
Gun Caisson
Gum Woods
Mule Driver
Arbuckle Coffee
Short Change
Kuklux Hood
Good Knight
Jess Willard
Jack Johnston
Bernard Shaw
Puppy Love
William Penn
National Parks
Tommy Tucker

Following the example of many of the larger colleges of the north, east, and west, the University of Virginia has
changed “College Topics” from a weekly newspaper to a daily. This is the first college daily inaugurated in the state
and one of the first in the south. The University of Minnesota has the distinction of publishing the largest college
newspaper in the world. It is a daily publication with sixteen pages and has a circulation of 5,000.

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES
GOOD SHOES
STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no
feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.” Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always
good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

SHOES LUGGAGE

Earn While You Learn

COLLEGE Students of ability can make good money in their spare time acting as our representatives. We have a clean-cut
proposition that insures a steady income during college and after graduation, if desired. Write for details, without obligating yourself.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
H. B. GUNTER
Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

CENTRAL and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing
Dry Cleaning
Pressing
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest Oldest Best
8 E. Trade St.
CHARLOTTE HAT SHOP
