2 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1, 1925

Twenty-Five, Last Class to Old Chambers
Only Name to Remaining Students
History-Making Fire Occurred During Freshman Year of Graduating Class
NOVEMBER 28, 1921

Four Massive Columns All That Remain of Old Historic Building

The last class to know old Chambers, the class of 1925, is passing out from the halls of Davidson, leaving
behind those to whom Chambers means four weather-beaten columns, and beyond that only a name. Four years ago, two hundred
and four Freshmen, the largest class enrolled up to that time, entered college. As the class leaves college after four
years, eighty-three receive their diplomas.

Many of the Freshmen roomed in the old building and spent a good part of their time carrying up coal
for their own use, and also for the use of innumerable upperclassmen, who in their day had performed the same
task for those who had been before them. The large, high-ceilinged rooms were each heated by one small grate which
devoured coal. For two and a half months the Freshmen knew Chambers. Many of them took English under Doctor Shewmake,
or Math under Doctor Douglas or Professor Wood in the large classrooms on the ground floor. Others studied Physics under
Professor Currie, who also had a classroom in the old building, but no Freshmen were members of his classes. In
their spare time, they climbed the steps into the cupola, and from that vantage point were able to see the
country from Mooresville to Huntersville, or else crawled out under the rafters of the central building to the ledge beyond
to see the picture of Woodrow Wilson, which Manning, a student several years before, had drawn in charcoal on the
front gable. Others ventured down into the columns and were told over and over again the story of the skeleton
which reposed at the bottom of one of the pillars; or listened to the more plausible story of the freight
train carrying tobacco which was wrecked a little way up the railroad: of how the boys raided the derailed cars,
and gained a few months’ supply of tobacco, and of how, learning of the impending visit of a government inspector,
they disposed of the stolen property by throwing it down one of the Chambers columns. This story was revived especially
after the fire when the columns smoked for several days, the one which smoked for over a week being regarded
as the one into which the tobacco was thrown.

The Fire

November 28, 1921, is a memorable day in Davidson history. A little after 4:30 on that Monday morning the alarm
was given when flames were seen shooting out of the cupola. It was then too late to save the building
for the dry seasoned pine was burning like tinder, and the stairway to the cupola acted as a flue. The
central building was soon a mass of flames, and from it the fire spread to the wings, which burned rapidly.
By 8:00 o'clock the whole building was gutted, with only the brick walls and the columns left standing. By quick
work, the boys managed to save the majority of their belongings, but several who had gone home and locked their
doors, and others who roomed at the end of the hall next to the central section where the fire was
hottest, failed to save their personal effects. The blaze was seen for miles around, but help was not obtainable in
time from Mooresville and Charlotte because of the bad condition of the roads, the Mooresville truck getting to the fire
after it had eaten its way into both wings, and word being sent to the Charlotte fire department that there
was no use to attempt the trip.

Also Know Old Chambers

One hundred and thirty-five boys were rooming in the building at the time of the blaze. They occupied the wings,
and in the main building were the physics laboratories, classrooms, the museum and old library, and the commencement hall. The
loss was estimated at $250,000, of which $100,000 was covered by insurance. No one was seriously injured in the fire,
though one boy, in trying to get a fire engine down the steps, was pinned by it, and while pinned,
severely burned before anyone could reach him. Another, in throwing a table out of a third-floor window, lost his balance
and fell to the ground, but escaped with only a sprained ankle.

The usual funny situations came up: one boy threw his bed out of the window, where it was hopelessly twisted
by the fall, and carried his mattress down carefully; another picked up his suitcase, threw his toothbrush and a shirt
into it, and without fastening it ran down the steps, losing the contents of the suitcase as well as six
suits of clothes which he had left hanging up in his closet.

Crowded Conditions

The morning of the fire, President Martin called the student body together and plans were immediately made for housing the
roomless boys. For the rest of the year, boys were crowded three and even four in a room. But the
executive committee of the trustees was not idle, and within the week had made plans for the rebuilding of Chambers
and for the erection of new dormitories to handle the overflow of students. Before the burning of Chambers, the college
was crowded, and after the fire, lucky was the boy who had only one roommate. Without cooperation between the faculty
and students, it would have been impossible to organize and get back to the routine of class work inside of
two days.

Walls and Columns Left

Practically all of the walls of the building were left standing, showing the quality of the brickwork. It was feared,
however, that some of the walls were dangerous, and an attempt was made to pull them down. A rope was
thrown over the front arch of brick, but even with 80 to 100Boys pulling in unison, the wall still held
firm for some time. One member of the class had his leg broken while pulling. He caught hold too near
the building, and when those behind him pulled, they lifted him 15 feet off the ground, and in coming down
he broke his leg. Finally, dynamite had to be used, and the walls were blown down, the lower walls to
the wings being left standing until the next summer, when all the bricks were removed. Now, all that remains are
the four columns which remain just as they were on the day of the fire. The heat crumbled the rock
badly near the base of one column, but the other three are in almost perfect condition.

Right: Old College Library in Chambers. After the library was built in 1916, it was used as a museum until
the building was burned in November 1921. Left: Campus scene looking across toward the columns of Chambers.

Old Chambers a Quarter of a Century Ago

Over Sixty Years Old

On January 6, 1860, classes were held for the first time in the newly completed Chambers building, and for over
61 years, classes were held in the building, and college boys lived in the wings. At the time of building,
it was considered one of the finest college buildings in the South, and from the point of view of architectural
beauty, it held such a place until it was burned.

In connection with the difficulties in the construction of the building, Miss Cornelia Shaw, Librarian, in her history of Davidson
College, says:

"As soon as the Chambers legacy became available, came the erection of the most imposing and perhaps the largest college
structure in the state. The building was erected by J. N. Scofield, of Davidson. The nearest railroad at that time
was 20 miles away. This fact made the collection of stone, mortar, and timber a great undertaking. The foundation and
pillar stones were quarried at Mount Mourne, at Leap, on the Concord road, and in the Rocky River community. The
lime was mined at Little Mountain, across the Catawba River. The heavy timbers were cut at Huntersville, while the planed
lumber, coming from South Carolina, was shipped to Charlotte by train and hauled by teams to Davidson. The bricks were
made of clay on the college land and were burned where the railroad water tank now stands.

"The length of the building is 279 feet, and its height, where crowned by the cupola, is 95 feet. The
splendid columns which make the building distinctive in Southern college architecture are 45 feet high, over 21 feet in circumference,
and over six feet in diameter. The building houses 72 sleeping rooms, five classrooms, three laboratories, the beautiful hall, and
the room long used as the library and which now houses the neglected museum. It faces the west and the
village, and its front walls are ivy-covered. Sixty years of usage have added to the dignity of the stately edifice
which bears its giver’s name."

Low Cost

The records show that the building cost only $81,000. Over 60 years later, when it was burned, the loss was
estimated at more than three times that sum. The stone pavement under the portico was presented by Rev. J. W.
Davis, of China, who superintended the work of paving. The original walnut doors were a gift from the class of
1907, under the leadership of Fred Leroy Blythe, now professor of Spanish in the college.

Center of Traditions

Around Chambers center the traditions of Davidson. Many famous men have roomed within its walls, among them Woodrow Wilson, one
of the greatest men the world has ever known, the founder of the League of Nations, and the man who
guided the United States through the greatest war the world has ever known. While at Davidson, Wilson roomed in number
eight, on the first floor of the north wing, facing the front campus. There he lived and studied, chopping his
own wood, drawing his water, and trimming his lamps, as did the rest of the students in that period. When
the old building burned, Wilson’s room was the last to go. The south wing caught first, and as the fire
burned its way from the third to the first floor, the north wing caught, and gradually burned to the first
floor. When the flames came to Wilson’s room, they passed by, and the rooms on both sides were blazing before
the destruction of his room began. Then, his room went too, and there the flames ended their work.

During his presidency, when Wilson was in Charlotte at the celebration of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence, he drove up
to Davidson and went once more over the scenes of his college days, entering the room where he spent a
year of his life.

Chambers was ideally suited for water fights, and in her halls were started some of the hardest fought battles in
history. The practice has not died down, and today along Dormitory Row, the paper sacks still fly, drenching whoever happens
to be in their path.

Setback Only Temporary

While conditions on the campus were bad during the rest of the school year, provisions were made immediately for remedying
them, and now three new dormitories have been erected to take the place of the two wings of Chambers, and
Watts, which was burned a year later. These dormitories, East, West, and Watts, house 350 boys, as compared to the
old accommodations for 180. In addition, one wing of the new Chambers has practically been completed, and other campus improvements
have been made. All in all, the class of '25 leaves Davidson with the feeling that it is a better
place than when they first entered, but deep in their hearts will always remain fond memories of old Chambers and
the days that used to be.
