THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925

Nine Members Added to I.R.C. Thursday Nite

Beneficial Lectures Were Delivered by Dr. J. M. McConnell and Prof. A. Currie

At a meeting of the International Relations Club last Thursday night, April 23, at the Delta Theta Chi fraternity hall, nine new members were initiated.

After the initiatory exercises, the club enjoyed two addresses by Dr. J. M. McConnell and Prof. A. Currie, faculty members of the club. Dr. McConnell spoke in regard to the founding, history, and purpose of the club and its relations to other activities on the campus. Prof. Currie’s theme was present conditions in international relations in respect to their conduciveness to war. He also outlined different causes of war in which he mentioned dynastic and economic causes. “We will have no more dynastic wars,” said the speaker in prophesying of future wars. “The days of dynastic struggles are over.”

Upon the conclusion of these talks, unfinished and new business was taken up and dispensed with, after which a delightful social hour was spent.

Membership in the International Relations Club is honorary. Each year certain students are invited to write papers on timely international political questions, which papers are then reviewed by a committee of the club separately, the ones receiving the highest grades being taken into membership. The purpose of the activities of the club is to foster interest in international problems as they confront the world today.

The recent initiates are E. K. Regen, of the Junior Class; W. A. Christian, T. G. McCutcheon, W. C. Ogden, E. E. Lingle, W. B. Rice, L. H. Leathers, J. B. Webb, and E. F. Bohannon, of the Sophomore Class.

Wildkitten Tennis Team

Crosland, Lockhart, Carr, and Wharton Compose Team of First Year Men

Having defeated Charlotte Country Club in a recent match at Charlotte, the Freshman tennis team is now preparing for numerous other matches of even more importance. This afternoon the Charlotte Country Club will be met again, probably at Charlotte as their courts are much superior to those at the College.

A North Carolina trip is being planned, although nothing definite has been worked out. Should affairs turn out satisfactorily, the following teams will be met on the trip (not in order, however): Lexington High, Oak Ridge, Greensboro High, Winston High, Carolina Fresh. These teams have only been written to and it is not yet certain whether each will be met.

Charlotte High will probably be played the latter part of this week at Charlotte. Also, the Fresh team will meet the varsity soon. While the varsity had a very successful eastern trip and displayed excellent playing, nevertheless they will probably find no little opposition with the Fresh team, even though they are winners.

The following men compose the Freshman team: R. Carr, Bob Crosland, Mac Lockhart, Jimmie Wharton. Dick Carr ranks as first man on the team, while Bob Crosland follows with second. The rank of Lockhart and Wharton has not yet been determined, but an immediate match will be played between them to determine which player will rank third.

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

The Wildcat nine defeated Wofford in a loosely played game, 11 to 8.

THIRTEEN MEN INITIATED

(Continued from page 1)

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association held its second convention at Davidson College on April 22 and 23.

Real “Fire” was on campus last Friday morning. The conflagration did considerable damage to the roof and caves of the Philanthropic Literary Society Hall. It is supposed to have started from a defective flue in the French classroom. Dr. Lingle proved to be the coolest man in the crowd. While watching the flames eat their way toward his classroom, he announced to the crowd that his French class would take the next four pages. The three “fire-chiefs” were Mr. Jackson, Dr. Arbuckle, and Dr. J. M. McConnell. They proved to be experts in giving directions on how to use a fire-extinguisher. A record run was made by the Mooresville fire department truck, but when they arrived the students had already extinguished the flames.

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N. C.

PROGRAMME

Thurs. and Fri., May 7 and 8. “His Hour.” Elinor Glyn’s production of her own story, directed by King Vidor. It’s a wonderful picture.

Sat., May 9. “Dixie.”

Plans for Coming Trip

The Davidson College Board left the campus the morning of Tuesday, April 12th, for an extended trip through the state, not returning until Friday night. The first concert was scheduled to be held at Mitchell College, Statesville, Tuesday evening. Leaving there the next morning, they were to sound forth their tuneful lays before the fair feminine student body of Lenoir College, located at Hickory. Thursday night they were scheduled for a return engagement at the Lincolnton High School, having on...

Literary Societies

Eumenean Society

The Eumenean Society held its regular meeting last Thursday night, at which time the officers for the next quarter were installed. Before the installation, a short program was held. “Spoofy” Moffatt delivered an oration on “Personal Efficiency.” President Purdy delivered an oration on “A Remarkable Family—Our Solar System.” P. Butterfield Freeland presented the pictures of Wilson, Lincoln, and Webster to the society for the committee, appointed to buy pictures for the hall. Retiring President Purdy made a few appropriate remarks in behalf of the outgoing administration for the support the society had shown them during their term of office. The new president, T. C. Barr, was then installed. The other officers were T. G. McCutcheon, Vice-President; R. A. Duke, Secretary; W. H. Lynch, Treasurer; A. Y. Bowie, Critic. After a motion was made and carried that a banquet be held at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel Thursday night, May 14, the meeting was adjourned.

Philanthropic Society

Last Thursday night, the Philanthropic Society held its regular meeting to elect officers for the next term. Before the elections were gone into, a short program was given, consisting of a debate on “Resolved, That Pullman Surcharge Should Be Abolished.” Calhoun and Baker defended the affirmative, while Alexander and D. G. Currie were their opponents. The judges voted in favor of the negative. After the critic made his report, a motion was made that the meeting be turned into the election of officers. Nominees for president were Ratchford, Barrington, Alexander; for vice-president were Davis, Calhoun, and Gordon; for secretary were Phillips, Morrison, Dixon, and Hanck; for treasurer were Calhoun and Gordon; for first critic were Baker, Williford, and Barrington; for second critic were Gordon, Lingle, and Crinkley; for supervisors were Dixon, Pritchett, Phillips, and Glenn. The men who were elected for the next quarter were as follows: Ratchford, President; Davis, Vice-President; Morrison, Secretary; Calhoun, Treasurer; Barrington, First Critic; Lingle, Second Critic; Dixon, First Supervisor; Glenn, Second Supervisor. The election of a representative on the Forensic Council was deferred until a later date. After the elections, Holshouser auctioned off a Philanthropic Society pin to the highest bidder. C. G. Davis bought it. The critic read out the program.For the next meeting and then a motion for adjournment was made and carried.

Pandemic Society: The Pandemic Literary Society held its regular meeting last Tuesday night, at which time a spirited debate was the feature of the program. The subject was: “Resolved, That the Pullman Surcharge Should be Removed.” Pinkney and Oeland defended the affirmative side of the question while H. McIlwaine and Webb ably upheld the negative. After keen rebuttals by both sides, the judges gave the decision to the affirmative. With “Success” as a theme, Oeland then gave an oration which showed careful preparation. To conclude the program, Zimmerman read current events, and the meeting adjourned.

Three Social Functions: The first social entertainment held for the press delegates was an informal gathering at the home of Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle, who, with Mrs. Reid, was hostess, on Thursday night to about forty of the delegates. After a most delightful time spent in games and guessing contests, punch and sandwiches were served.

With this auspicious start, the social events followed in rapid succession. Friday afternoon, the delegates participated in an inter-fraternity reception. Following this, after supper, most of the visitors attended the Spanish plays given by the Spanish students of Davidson and Queens. The program was quite an enjoyable one, much favorable criticism being rendered by those who were fortunate enough to attend.

Following the Spanish play entertainment, The Davidsonian staff and the Davidson College Magazine staff were hosts at an elaborate banquet given at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. No minute detail was omitted to make this the event of the meeting. The program arranged by C. F. Smith contained a great many witty phrases and captains. A. M. Martin, filling the office of toastmaster, displayed his usual wit and fluent oratory. Among those called on for speeches were: W. E. Milton, "Free Air to the Oilest Arrival;” “Backfire,” Miss Dorothy McBrayer; “That Good Gulf Gas,” M. Sanders; “Havoline Headlines,” C. F. Smith; “Magazine Mileage,” Lotta Miles (Sam Davis); “The Open Road,” F. H. Shinn. The banquet consisted of five courses and included all the necessary ingredients for a well-rounded affair. While the dinner was in full sway, the guests were given a real treat in the several songs by Malcolm Lockhart, who was accompanied by Proctor Thompson on the guitar.

The last social event of the convention was a luncheon given to the delegates by the Reporters’ Club. Owing to conflicting train schedules, the affair had to be cut short. There was no program, but Earnest Milton bade farewell to the delegates on behalf of Davidson and the Davidson publications.

Charlotte High Twice a Winner on Local Field: Pitching in fine form, Fred Lanier, ace of the Charlotte high school hurling staff, easily conquered the much weaker Mt. Holly aggregation on Richardson Field Wednesday afternoon. The final score was 8-1. This was the first game for each team in the elimination series. Lanier’s pitching was the best witnessed on the local campus in a long while. He fanned thirteen men and allowed only four scratch hits. Moreover, the Charlotte outfit gave him good backing. The mountaineers made their lone tally in the initial inning. After two men were out, Hicks singled and scored on Auten’s double. Charlotte seemed to score at will throughout the contest. Gribble, Hurt, Foard, Kistler, and Scott did excellent work with the hickory, while Hicks and Auten starred for Mount Holly.

Charlotte-Gastonia: With Fred Lanier hurling air-tight ball and the entire team giving him excellent support in the field and at bat, Charlotte high defeated Gastonia high in a well-played game here last Saturday 7-4. The contest was an elimination affair, the winner advancing another step toward the championship. Kistler and Gribble proved to be the batting stars for the Queen City boys, the former getting three bingles, one a home run and another a triple, while the centerfielder garnered a four-bagger and a pair of singles. Pat Crawford’s boys displayed a real fighting spirit in the seventh frame when they managed to push four counters across the plate, but Lanier was too much for them in the other innings. Henderson pitching for the Gaston County boys had good control, but the opposing batsmen seemed to take a special liking for his curves and fastballs.

The last concert of the trip will be given at Sharon Church, just outside of Charlotte. The church plans to hold a reception for the band after the program. After leaving the church, they will return to Davidson late that night via auto, thus completing what is hoped to be the most successful trip of the year.

Mrs. J. M. McConnell was hostess last Friday evening when the Thelemites Club entertained in honor of Miss Eloise Martin, whose engagement to Buck Currie has been recently announced. The decorations of Spring flowers and the bride’s cake were items of central interest. The feature of the occasion came when Miss Martin was presented with a beautiful book of recipes.

Pandemic Society: For the year, the Pandemic has used a system of free discussion and debate at all of its meetings, and this last program was the first to revert to the old system. This “Free Discussion” system has succeeded with great success by the Pandemic and will probably be adopted by the society as the regular order next week.

Metrophilian Society: The Metrophilian Literary Society met at its regular meeting last Tuesday night. Upon motion of the house, the debate was postponed, and the society went immediately into the election of officers for the coming year. After much balloting, the following officers were elected: Roland Parker, president; Don Wharton, vice-president; Don Stewart, treasurer; Boyce Martin, secretary; E. T. Pullen, first critic; Bill Covington, second critic; A. L. Powell, first supervisor; W. G. Smith, second supervisor. The meeting then adjourned.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP: The Most Convenient For Davidson Men