é THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

Religious News

Ministerial Band

The Ministerial Band meeting on Sunday, November 8th, opened with a song service led by Clancy Williams. President C. Y. Bowie conducted the program. Prayers were offered by different members of the band. Dr. J. M. McConnell spoke on the “Inspirational Value of a Great Life.” His scripture reading was taken from I Peter. He spoke on the inspirational value of the lives of such great leaders as George Washington, Dwight L. Moody, Gladstone, Pitt, and Pasteur. The conduct of these men served to guide those that followed after them. George Washington filled the presidential chair with such honor that he has inspired those who succeeded with an ambition to do high and noble deeds. Pasteur, by his life devoted to humanity, added many converts to the cause of preventing disease. The Christian people should take as their inspiration the life of Jesus Christ, and we should so model our lives after His so as to be an inspiration to others. We do not need to hold a high position in order to do this, but we may have a beneficial influence even though we are in the humblest walk of life. The meeting closed with a prayer by Dr. MacConnell.

Volunteer Band

The Volunteer Band held its regular meeting last Sunday at ten o'clock. Of special interest was the election of officers, in which Kelsy Regan was voted president; J. A. McAlpine, vice-president; W. B. Price, corresponding secretary; and H. L. Campbell, secretary-treasurer. In Kelsy Regan, the band has a president capable of guiding and maintaining the increasing interest which is being shown in the study of foreign fields. He will be excellently supported by the other officers, who were all re-elected and have already shown their ability. A talk by W. K. Forbes on Brazil was the other feature of the program. The opportunities, customs, and obstacles to mission work in this country were treated in a pleasing manner. Next week Glenn Fry will speak about Africa, and in the weeks following, Billy Rice and Stuart Moffat will discuss China and Mexico, respectively. All interested in foreign mission work, whether they intend to work there or not, are urged to attend.

A very beautiful and impressive communion service was conducted by Dr. Richards on Sunday. Several of the new men in the college expressed gratification at the impressive nature of this, their first communion service in the Davidson church.

Army Salvage Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.
We carry a complete line of army goods and general merchandise. Hob-nail shoes, leggings, O. D. pants and breeches, O. D. shirts, raincoats, and blankets.

LOCAL PROFESSOR SPEAKS
(Continued from page 1)

Italy, France, Russia, and England combined was more than four times as great as that of Germany and Austria-Hungary. The second class is composed of those who think wars are inevitable and all efforts to prevent them are useless. Fools, like the poor, are always with us, and as long as there are fools there will be war. War is as inevitable as death and taxes. Although death is inevitable, we put forth every possible effort to stave it off as long as possible, and so it is with our efforts to prevent war; at best they serve only to put it off a little while.

Then there is a third class in the population who know that war is not impossible regardless of treaties and armaments, but who nevertheless think it is not inevitable. Most of us belong to this class. Prof. Foreman stressed his main thought, “War ought to be prevented because it is a bad thing.” It is not wrong because it uses force, because force is neither right nor wrong and is very useful to society in other ways. Nor is it necessarily wrong because it takes human life, because the State under certain conditions permits the taking of and even itself takes human life. War is bad because of what it costs in money, men, and morals. The World War cost in money nearly four hundred billion dollars and about twenty-six million human lives. These figures, said the speaker, cannot portray to the human mind the magnitude of such losses, for it is unable to conceive of them. Prof. Foreman gave some very interesting and graphic arithmetical comparisons in an effort to get his audience to realize the tremendous cost of the late war in money and men. People cannot pay for war. We are still paying for the war of 1812. Eighty-five per cent of the Federal taxes go for war purposes, while only fifteen per cent goes for constructive purposes. The damage of war to morals cannot be estimated. War engenders hate and crime. The first casualty of war is Truth, for it dies first. The stories told in America about the atrocities and inhuman acts of the Germans have been proved untrue. War, even though bad, should be tolerated if the results are good. It gets territory, but only by killing off the population. The unity of the United States was not because of the Civil War, but in spite of it. In the world war, we fought to end war, but they are planning a next war even worse than the last. America cannot stay out of a great conflict. War is something that we ought to try to prevent as long as possible and forever if possible. It is a many-sided problem and cannot be stopped by any one thing. The Church alone cannot, but the Church is the conscience of America and it is our business to speak against war now, before the war comes and it is too late. War is no longer a reasonable or sensible way to settle disputes. To prevent it we must understand it. We must get information about it and study the question thoroughly. We must internationalize our thought and feelings. The missionaries are doing most to stop war by their work of internationalization, and anything we can do to help the Church in its mission work will help to prevent war.

There have been an unusual number of tourists from other states passing through town during the last week. Since the opening of the highway through Davidson, tourist travel has been on the increase, and such travel is sure to bring a wholesome state of business as well as good advertising to the town.

Colds have been rather prevalent both on and off the campus, and some cases of flu have been reported.

YELLOW CAB CO.
PHONE 24
ANY HOUR OF THE 24

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
Mooresville, N. C.
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies

Town News

The town passed an unusually quiet and uneventful week. Several of the professors made brief trips during the week, Dr. and Mrs. Harding spending the weekend with relatives in Charlotte. Mrs. Archibald Currie and daughter, Lucy Martin, are in good health again after a period of illness due to flu, and their many friends among the students and townfolks will be gratified at their recovery. The members of the Hampden-Sydney football team were the guests of the college on Friday and Saturday nights. They expressed themselves as being greatly pleased and were surprised at the courtesies extended to them by the students and faculty of Davidson. This treatment they described as being superior to any they had received elsewhere. Professors Fleagle and Porter are building new homes out on Shelton Heights. They will be ready for occupancy in the early spring. Miss May Ellinwood has arrived from home on N. Main Street. The Rev. Mr.Irvin, the new pastor of the Methodist Church, has arrived and, with his family, is occupying the parsonage on South Street. The news from Mrs. Dougherity, wife of Capt. R. D. Dougherity, is most encouraging. She underwent an operation for appendicitis recently at Walter Reed Hospital, Washington, D. C. Mrs. Walter Henderson has returned after an extended visit to her old home near Wilmington. Among the alumni at the game last week was Mr. John Hall, 1900, of Wilmington, N. C. He came on to Davidson to spend Sunday with his son, of the Freshman class.

SENIOR CLASS TO SELECT FEATURE SOON

In past years, the Senior class has usually adopted some wearing apparel to distinguish them from the other students. At a recent meeting, the present Senior class decided that the members of the class should purchase some distinctive article of dress. The class voted unanimously to do this. A committee was appointed by the president of the class for the selection of such apparel. The members of the committee are: Morgan B. Speir, T. S. Lawson, and Walter Lynch. The committee has made several suggestions to the class, but nothing definite has been decided. The class seems to be largely in favor of lumber jackets or sport sweaters. There has also been considerable discussion about the color. It was thought best to have a solid color. Every conceivable type and color of clothing has been submitted by several student agents, and the committee is giving each their considerations. The class expects to reach a decision in a few days.

The following appointments in the Davidson College R. O. T. C. Unit are announced, effective October 21, 1925:

To be Cadet Corporals:
Company “A”—Edgar, C. E.; Foster, J. S.; McAulay, B. W.; Grey, W. R., Jr.; Ansley, D. H.; Steigler, W. F.; Pressly, J. C.; McEachern, D. R.; Lake, Julian; McGee, J. L.; Mauney, R. L.; Laws, H. D.; Maulden, P. R.; Johnson, D. W.
Company “B"—McRae, Roderick; Crosland, R. M.; Carson, C. C.; Withers, F. C.; Davidson, C. G.; Osheck, C. A.; McPhaul, A. H.; Carr, R. W.; McAlister, J. S., Jr.; Ahers, J. M.; McGeachy, T. E.; Miller, S. C.; Phillips, F. A. H.
Company “C”—Arbuckle, H. B., Jr.; Bradford, W. B.; Houston, E. R.; Bowers, J. T.; Dulin, J. G.; Douglass, E. L.; Robinson, J. L., Jr.; Farnsworth, O. M.; Overton, Joe A.; Wearn, O. P.; McNeil, J. L.; Pritchett, L. K.; Marrow, J. C.; Rome, C. R.
Company “D"—Lowrance, R. S.; Daniel, F. D.; Dubose, C. B.; Smith, A. M.; Melton, J. W.; Trabue, C. C.; Walton, P. W.; Jennings, W. Hampton; Debele, F. C.; McCrary, J. F.; Currie, J. M.; Carter, A. B.; McRae, C. F.; McColgan, W. L.
Band—McCravey, J. R.; McKnight, J. P.; McSwain, G. H.; Palmer, George; Wearn, O. P.; Withers, Sam.
Color Corporals: Davis, C. G.; Steele, M. A.

These appointments were made upon the recommendations of the Cadet Captains, who based their recommendations upon the work made by these men during the early drills of this year.

The R. O. T. C. Band, under the leadership of Cadet Captain Crayton and Captain Elkins, has developed in a manner which Captain Weems, head of the local R. O. T. C. Unit, characterizes as “very satisfactory.” “The men,” says Captain Weems, “have been turning out faithfully for the football games in Charlotte.” Captain Elkins has been arranging for the Band to get to Charlotte for the games. The townpeople and members of the faculty have been cooperating with him in this matter. He expressed especially his appreciation to the Crayton Motor Company for the truck which they furnished to convey the majority of the members of the Band to Charlotte for the Furman game, Saturday, October 24. For the past two weeks, the Band has been receiving instruction from a director from Charlotte. They are preparing for the races, November 11. Upon the request of Mr. Barringer and with the permission of the faculty, the Band will again attend the big Armistice Day Races on the Charlotte Speedway this year.

DETAILED STORY OF GAME (Continued from page 7)

Hendrix made first down through the same left side of the line. Nisbet made one over the same tackle. Hendrix went through center for three yards. Ball on Hampden-Sidney’s 45-yard line. First downs, Davidson 6, Hampden-Sidney 10.

Fourth Quarter

Atkins broke up Grey’s pass. Grey punted 40 yards, Vance downing Brinser on the nineteen-yard line. Atkins made seven around the left end. Brinser fumbled for a five-yard loss. Brinser’s punt was blocked, Atkins recovering and making first down on a thrilling run. Laird threw him for a two-yard loss as he carried the ball outside. Turley recovered another fumble for Hampden-Sidney. Brinser drove to Hampden-Sidney’s 45-yard line over left tackle, gaining six. Grey spilled Palmer for a two-yard loss. Two passes failed. Dick Grey returned the punt twelve yards to Davidson's 31-yard line. Black went outside for a one-yard gain. Grey slipped through a narrow hole for five yards. Hendrix missed a first down by inches. Brinser returned Grey’s 40-yard punt six yards. Palmer went wide around the right end for nine yards. Atkins failed to gain as Bohannon spilled him. Vance stopped the Tigers for a slight gain. Hampden-Sidney was penalized fifteen yards after Atkins had carried the ball 22 yards to Davidson’s fifteen-yard line. Grey returned Brinser’s punt twelve yards to Davidson’s 30-yard line, Harrison running good interference. Hendrix made five over right tackle. Black made two over center. Pass failed as Grey was rushed. Grey punted 32 yards, Brinser returning thirteen. Coach Bernier sent in two fresh backfield men. Richardson made first down over the line in two plays. Richardson made four over right tackle. With ten seconds to play, Alexander was sent in to try a place kick which went wide. Game over. Davidson 6; Hampden-Sidney 6. First downs: Davidson 6; Hampden-Sidney 14.

NORTH CAROLINA BACKS

Player. Touchdowns. Goals. Pts. Total.
Caldwell, Duke —--- 21
W. Shuford, State —- 18
Karleskint, W. F. --- 18
Sparrow, Carolina —- 17
Underwood, Carolina. 16
McComb, Davidson - 13
Jeanette, State ----- 13
Black, Davidson ~--- 12
Wells, Davidson ~-_- 12
Overton, Davidson - 12
Shuford, Carolina —- 11
Leggette, Davidson - 10
Harrison, Davidson - 10
Grey, Davidson ---- 9
Rackley, W. F. ---- 9
Fordham, Carolina_- 8
McMurray, Carolina 8
Swift, Duke 7
Owl, Lenoir State -- 7

QUALITY

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

We spare no pains in our efforts to serve the best. We take pleasure in soliciting banquets and those “college feeds.” See our managers for information and prices.

The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel
MANAGERS
H. L. SHAW
F. R. HUDSON
H. D. BURKE