THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925

ALUMNI NEWS

Edgar Woods, '19, is the new pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury, N.C.

Earl Cathey, '20, spent several days in Davidson after the closing of the school in Eufola, N.C., of which he is principal.

Rev. J. C. Rowan, '04, preached the baccalaureate sermon at Union Theological Seminary.

Dr. T. W. Lingle, '03, is to preach the baccalaureate sermon at the High Point School, High Point, N.C.

Bob McLeod, '23, from the Louisville Theological Seminary, preached at Eufola, N.C., last Sunday.

Dr. T. W. Lingle preached the baccalaureate sermon at the Millingport-Phyler High School last Sunday. W. T. Hassel, '17, and his quartette, which have gained praise throughout the state, were also participants in the program.

“SCRATCHING COLLEGES”

The following is a very interesting letter written by a Davidson man of the class of 1921, W. B. “Baba” Pearah, who is now in business in New York City. His letter, written to the editor of The Davidsonian, will be read with much interest by the students and the alumni who were in school with the writer.

“Scratching Colleges”

At our recent Alumni Banquet of New York City, Dr. Martin, in outlining the past, present, and future of Davidson College, or, better known to us all as “Old D.C.,” made the following statement, “I hope and pray that Davidson should never become too rich and have too much money on hand as some schools have.” This may seem highly laughable to those in our Alma Mater and to those in other small colleges fighting to make ends meet, if their sense of humor has not been submerged by the grind. Yet there is sound truth in this observation. Many of us have heard the old saying: “A chicken is healthier if it has to scratch for a living.” So is an individual, so is a college.

Money is essential to an educational institution, but it is not of first importance. “Scratching colleges” often have something of far greater value. Scattered throughout the country are hundreds of comparatively small colleges, with five hundred or less enrollment, without large endowments, doing a great work, giving students high ideals and a true democratic spirit. One sees no Packard speedsters backed up to the curb, but instead one sees hard-working boys, earnest young men, seriously struggling to improve themselves.

In small colleges, a spirit of cooperation, of getting along under difficulties, and of making the best of things, is present, which is not to be found in the richer schools. In the rich university, the undergraduate is submerged, where the vast well-oiled mechanism automatically divides and shunts, fills and seals individual students, like many cans in a great canning factory; it is highly efficient, but for undergraduate work, it lacks something that the “scratching college” has. The big and rich school probably offers the best place for graduate work, for specialization, for scholarship, but for undergraduate work, for character development, the smaller, the poorer college is usually superior. The rich school emphasizes the scholar, the “scratching college” the man. One stresses scholarship, the other character.

In the “scratching college,” money counts for little; the snobbing man is unknown; all are drawn together by the common struggle. The students working their way through know what they are there for and are trying to make the most of their opportunities. The instructors are not in the work for the money there is in it, but for the love of the work and the joy of helping those who are helping themselves. The average three thousand dollar salary or less is a sum to attract only those with a certain amount of idealism and service in their blood. Many “good old and grand old men” of America may be found in the obscure little “scratching college.” We can well admit this fact by reading over Miss Shaw's “History of Davidson College.”

The world needs scholars, but first it needs men. The world needs polish and fine manners, but first fundamental honesty and rock-ribbed manhood. The eternal need of the world is character—as long as they continue to emphasize this, “scratching colleges” will be of the highest value. In this short article, I have poorly tried to show you that Davidson is a “scratching college” and I am sure we all agree with our president who has made the Davidson of today—that we too hope that Davidson shall remain a “scratching college” and scatter its ideals and spirit throughout the four corners of the globe.

(Signed): W. B. Pearah

PROFESSORS SPEAK AT SENIOR CLASS SMOKER GIVEN AT THE HOTELA get-together and smoker last Tuesday night at the Maxwell-Chambers Hotel, was the occasion, and served with great success in this capacity. Several members of the senior class attended. Jim Hendrix was toastmaster. Harry Price was called on and gave an interesting account of the recent trip of the tennis team. “Sook” Boggs and Phil Cox also responded with short appropriate toasts. Dr. J. M. McConnell and Prof. A. Currie were the principal speakers of the occasion. Dr. McConnell gave food for thought in presenting some well-founded practical rules for success. Professor Currie presented a talk interspersed with jokes that kept his hearers in a mirthful attitude, and in the more serious part of his discourse impressed those present with some of the fundamental facts of life. Music for the occasion was furnished by the Senior quartette composed of “Piggy” Martin, “Sook” Boggs, Wallace Purdy, and Ed Singletary. The quartette rendered several numbers, all of which were received with great applause. This banquet will be followed by one more this spring, which will mark the last gathering of the class in such social fellowship.

“STYLES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN”
WE INVITE YOUR INSPECTION OF
New Shades, New Weaves, and New Patterns
WHOLESALE CUSTOM TAILORS
See “WHERE THE STYLES START FROM”
FROM OUR SHOPS DIRECT TO YOU.
SAVES THE MIDDLEMAN’S PROFITS

Library News
Peter Binney, by Archibald Marshall.
“A middle-aged Englishman who is self-made and a success from a material point of view, envies the education and the free and easy college life which he is able to offer his son. After some difficulty, he passes the entrance examinations, enters Cambridge University, and finds himself a fellow-student of his own son. The possibilities of this unusual situation the author develops to the utmost, and as a result, Peter Binney is one of those rarities, a funny story that is genuinely funny. Although this novel is familiar to English readers, it has not appeared in this country. In order that American readers may enjoy this clever piece of work by Archibald Marshall, Peter Binney is added to the long list of his popular novels published in this country.”

The Wings of the Morning, by Louis Tracy.
The Wings of the Morning is another delightful adventure story. All who appreciate modern fiction must recognize this as one of those destined to remain on the market for years to come. It is told in the winning way of Louis Tracy and is one of the kind that forces the reader to pay close attention, unwilling to skip a word, and not willing to stop until it is finished. Louis Tracy may be remembered as the author of The Postmaster’s Daughter, Diana of the Moorland, and Number Seventeen.

TRAINING CLASS VISITS DISTRICT CONVENTION
The Class of Davidson went as a body to the Huntersville Church last Sunday evening as a deputation to the Annual Convention of the Southern District Christian Endeavor Union. The Christian Endeavor Training Class attended the meeting Sunday evening and conducted a model Christian Endeavor service. A. A. Duke was the leader. L. L. Deck led the singing. P. J. Garrison gave a vocal solo and T. H. Hamilton rendered a solo on the violin. The subject of the meeting was “Happiness in the Home.” Talks on different phases of the subject were made by P. J. Garrison, L. L. Deck, M. A. Steele, C. F. McRae, D. A. Currie, and W. H. Lynch. After the meeting, a reading was given and the president of Elon College gave the closing address of the conference.

YOU MAY WIN $1,500
If you are able to make the most words out of the letters contained in the words “TOILET NECESSITIES.” A total of $3,000 IN CASH prizes will be awarded to competitors in this GREAT WORD-BUILDING CONTEST. Send stamp for circular and rules. Address, Sheffield Laboratories, Dept. 12, Aurora, Illinois.

For Dental Gold, Platinum, Silver, Diamonds, magneto points, false teeth, jewelry, any valuables. Mail today. Cash by return mail. Hoke S. & R. Co., Otsego, Mich.

COSTUMES
Wigs and Make-up for School and College Plays and Pageants
Special Rental Rates
VAN HORN & SON
921 Walnut St.
PHILA., PENNA.

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

The only person who does not need automobile insurance is the person who does not own a car.
McALISTER CARSON, Mgr.
Trust Company Department
Charlotte, N. C.

Belk Bros. Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
Are offering some exceptional values in College Men’s Suits with one and two pairs of Pants, made in this season’s newest models and colors on sale at $19.95, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50. Would pay you to come to Charlotte and see them.