THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

TAKE BOTH GAMES FROM CADETS
HAVE THREE TRACK MEETS IN 14 DAYS

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

“COLLEGE!” That's what the new Society Brand Boulevard says to you. College clothes are not like other clothes. College men wear what they like and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it, so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand makes clothes for college men. That’s why they make the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner and Urner Oxfords
Manhattan Shirts

GO GET ’EM WILDCATS

The following is the probable line-up for the Davidson-Oak Ridge baseball game, unofficially so:

Davidson. Position. Oak Ridge.
Viorel 3rd base Simpson or Kimbrough
Jones 2nd base Alford
Covington (C) Shortstop Beesom
Fairley Right field Wiall
Caldwell Center field Alford
Onlison Left field Laird
Boss or McClure Pitcher
Cashion Catcher

Seven Players Receive the “D” in Basketball
Besides five Regulars Beall and Hewlett Receive the Letter—Best Team in Years Flake Leads Next Season

With the closing of the past basketball season, there have been seven men who won the coveted "D." Of these men, the Seniors can boast of four, the Juniors one, and the Sophomores two. Of the seven men to win letters, there are two that have not made a letter before, Anderson and Hewlett, both of the Sophomore class, who played consistent basketball throughout the season.

Captain “Sook” won the “D” on the basketball team and each year found him in there fighting like a true Wildcat. Sook plays guard and his brilliant work both on defense and offense has been outstanding. Fast on his feet and possessing a steady head, Sook cuts off many attacks at his team’s goal, and few are the cagemen that are able to get by him. Boggs has three times won his letter. “Spec” McConnell won his letter for the third time. “Spec” also plays the guard position. “Spec” during the last season was a wonder at throwing goals. Always on the alert and dashing in when they least expected it, he breaks up many plays of the opponents and when he gets the ball it is sure of finding its way through the basket.

Mac Beal for four successive years has played forward. Mac is a consistent player who is always to be counted on. He is also among those who rank highest in the scoring end of the game. Staley has won a berth for three successive years. Tom has been looked on as a regular “speed demon” on the court. Appearing to be everywhere at once, he keeps all the members of the opposing team on the alert. Tom is also a high scorer, rarely missing when he gets a shot at the basket. He has played forward all three years and his place on the team will be a hard one to fill.

Flake Laird, because of his brilliant work at forward the past two years, has well been selected for the captain of next year’s team. In basketball as well as in the other sports in which Flake plays an important part, Flake has done his share of the work. Equally as good on the defense as on the offense, Flake always distinguishes himself by his playing. Under his guidance, the team...

Spalding, Reach, Goldsmith
Equipment for Every Sport
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade Street
Wright & Ditson

Sport Flashes
By DON WHARTON

Duke University wants to meet the young Wildcats in a dual track and field meet, and the Davidson coaches are working to get that little deal through.

Saturday’s meet showed that the Freshman class has a good bit of material in that line. In winning the first Davidson Initiation Track meet over a field of strong schools, the Fresh class had to go to its limit, Charlotte High School being barely nosed out by 43 to 40 scores.

John Currie was certainly the big man of the meet. His time in the first heat of the 100 hundred—10 1-5 seconds—ties the Davidson record for that event.

Tomorrow the varsity track squad leaves for Blacksburg, Va., where the strong V. P. I. team will be met in a dual meet Saturday. Last year the Gobblers easily won out over Davidson on Richardson Field.

Coach Tex has been putting out some hard work on the Wildcat squad this spring—and the squad has been putting out also. The team, although by no means up to the standard of Davidson teams so far this year, will be a little stronger than that of the past season.

Captain Gracey looks good to place first in more than one event. Last year he was high point man in several meets though the Wildcats were losing by great scores.

Other valuable men on the team are Mc-Connell in the mile and half-mile, Goodykoontz and Brand in the 100, 220, and 440, and Williford in the two-mile. Anderson will probably do well in the hurdles and pole vaults.

With the Oak Ridge double-header scheduled for Friday and Saturday afternoons, the baseball team will at least have a little experience by the time we meet State the following week. This game is scheduled for April 1, but there is a possibility that it will be changed to the last day of March.

We are glad to announce that the basketball team will be given a banquet by Prof. Carl Wachter, one of the most loyal supporters of athletics on the Hill. Monday he was out helping coach the track team. It seems that he was at one time a pretty good shot putter on some eastern college team.

Next week will be a full one with a baseball game with State and Elon both scheduled here and a track meet with Wofford finishing up the weekend. It seems they are having quite a fight out around second base between Simpson, Kimbrough, and Davis. While down at Carolina, Jones, who played in their infield last year, is fighting it out with the mumps. Roland Parker's attack by the same disease hurt the track team quite a bit also.

Next year should make an exceptionally good show toward state honors. Tom Anderson came up from the ranks of the Freshman team of last year, of which he was an important part. Tom easily filled the vacancy at center this past season and was one of the Wildcats’ mainstays. Always playing a good game with his special merit lying in his ability to find the basket when a score is needed. Tom is tall and fast and a born basketball player, and Coach Monk is counting on developing a real star out of him.

Andy Hewlett also distinguished himself on Coach Rawson’s Freshman team of last year and was able to make the grade of the varsity this year. Andy is another formidable forward and is respected for his clean and brilliant playing. He should easily win himself a berth as forward next year to fill the vacancies left by the graduation of several of the old men.

FRESH SCHEDULE GOOD

The Davidson College Freshman baseball schedule this year calls for 11 games, at least one with all the large colleges of the state, and several with high schools nearby. The following is the schedule:

April 10—Rockingham High at Davidson.
April 11—Duke Freshmen at Davidson.
April 13—Raeford American Legion at Raeford.
April 14—Raeford American Legion at Raeford.
April 17—Lowell High School at Davidson.
April 22—Duke Freshmen at Durham.
April 23—University of North Carolina Fresh at Chapel Hill.
April 24—Wake Forest Fresh at Wake Forest.
April 25—N.C. State Fresh at Raleigh.
May 2—N.C. State Fresh at Davidson.
May 9—Wake Forest Fresh at Davidson.

Coach Primes Baseball Nine for Oak Ridge

Usual Double-Header With Cadets Starts Baseball Season for Wildcats

STATE GAME NEXT WEEK

The Wildcat nine will open the season Friday, playing Oak Ridge Institute here at Davidson. The game is the first of a two-game series; the second will be played on Saturday afternoon. These two games will be the only ones played with Oak Ridge this year and they will be hotly contested.

Although Oak Ridge is only a preparatory school, strong baseball teams are always turned out. Last year Davidson succeeded in annexing both games of the series but only after a hard struggle.

Both teams have been working hard in anticipation of the games, they being the first encounter of the season for both teams. Coach Monk has been molding a smooth working machine for several weeks and the prospects are that it will be even a better team than last year’s.

Oak Ridge has a most competent coach in E.K. Holt, who has been there for four or five years. His teams have established a notable record in and out of the state, and this year’s team will be no less worthy of the name they have established. There are several individual stars for the Oak Ridge team, but one of the main factors of their success is their teamwork.

Dutch Hengeveld, of Davidson, will umpire both games. Dutch has umpired in many games in and around Davidson before and has been very satisfactory at this job.

The probable line-up of the two teams will be as follows:

There is no “cure,” but the wheezy breathing that prevents sleep may oftentimes be relieved by inhaling the soothing medicated vapors of—

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

For High-Class PRINTING “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga, Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Opening of APPLEBY A Lobby of West Friday, March 27, opens the Wildcat baseball season, and this date also marks Harrison Clothing Company

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.