THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

BRONCHITIS
Apply Vicks at bedtime, rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes so
vapors will be inhaled.
Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

Benefit as well as pleasure. Healthful exercise for the teeth and a spur to digestion. A long-lasting refreshment, soothing to
nerves and stomach. The Great American Sweetmeat, untouched by hands, full of flavor.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

FELLOWS!!!
We have several new U-Push’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

This is Skit McConnell’s latest song hit, conceived by the All-American soda-jerker, and copyrighted by him:
“I used to shower my girl with Christmas presents, BUT, It Ain’t Gonna Rain No Mo’.”

All of us know that Roland Parker came from back in the country, but we have the absolute proof on
him now. Last Tuesday afternoon at 5 p.m. he took a shower for a change, and before he recovered consciousness
he had gotten on the inside of a pair of pajamas and wound up his alarm clock.

Our idea of patriotism is a fellow who will take his arm from around his girl in a picture show
to clap when the Stars and Stripes are shown on the screen.

Somebody please tell H. L. Shelby who is PRESIDENT of the track team. He was asking such a question last
week.

SAD BUT TRUE
Social Item: Mr. C. D. Patterson made a trip to Catawba College a month ago, and has not passed a
review since he came back. Draw your own conclusions.

Count Davis will now render us a solo on his famous gargle-ette, entitled, “Don't Call Me Lissie Any More.”

BOTH, PLEASE SIR!
Fresh—“I want to draw a uniform, sir.”
Sgt. Kirby—“Do you want it too large or too small?”

Reformer—“Young man, don’t you realize that you'll never get anywhere if you don’t stop drinking?”
Sot—“Frien’, I gesh you're right. I’ve started home from thish corner five times, an’ I’m back here again.”

“Hello.”
“I beg your pardon. You made a mistake.”
“Aren't you the little girl I kissed at the dance last night?”
“No, but it must have been Sister. She’s sick today.”

Last week was National Educational Week. We observed it by flunking a review.

“I see in the papers where three men were killed in a feud.”
“I always did think those cheap cars were dangerous.”

If you expectorate around here don’t spit on the floor.

OH CAPTAIN, MY CAPTAIN!
Lady on ship—“Captain, what time does the tide rise? I must go down and close my portholes before it gets
too high.”

She—“I dreamt last night that I was going auto riding.”
He—“Tell me about it.”
She—“I’ve forgotten the dream, but when I woke up I was walking in my sleep.”

“Would you marry a widow?”
“No, I prefer to tame my wife myself.”

“My uncle died recently and left a lot of money,” said a well-known Senior the other day. In reading the
newspaper the next day we found out that the reason that the man died and the money was left was
because the cop shot him before he could get out of the window.

“It's been a trying day,” said the judge as he locked the courtroom door and went home.

The owner of the second-hand car is always trying to start something.

Our latest song hit—“They call the baby Coffee because he keeps them awake at night.”

47, 21, 32, 12, 63, 0
College students at least have something in common with Germany. Their marks are low and so are ours.

“Why does a college man have so little tire trouble?”
“Because he makes his flat tires walk home.”

HEARD IN SOUTH CAROLINA
“Where are you from?”

HE GOT IT
Father (at dinner)—“Which part of the chicken do you like best?”
Roland Parker (caught off guard)—“Theneck, of course.”

Prof.—“Mr. Westbrook, you made 99 on the last review. Why didn’t you make 100?”
Westbrook—“There must have been a misprint in the book, sir.”

OH YOU SANTA CLAUS

Absence makes the heart grow fonder—but presents bring the best results.

“Hey, waiter, will you please close that window?”
“Is there a draft, sir?”
“Well, not exactly, but this is the fourth time my steak has blown off my plate.”

“How did you get that red on your lips?”
“That long.”

“Was my tag for parking too long?”

“I had an awful nightmare last night.”
“Yeah, I saw you with her.”

Soph—“What is your ambition, fresh?”
Fresh—“To die just one year sooner than you.”
Soph—“Why do you want to do that?”
Fresh—“So that I'll be a Soph in Hades when you get there.”

“Hoo John, is my bath warm?”
“Yas sir, Mr. Anderson, the warmest I ever was in.”

A PLAYLET

Place: Watts Dorm.
Time: 9 p.m.

“North Carolina, why?”
“Well, you don’t talk like a Northerner.”

We have at last discovered why Mac Lockhart's mustache has disappeared. He had a hot date one night last week,
and it got singed off.

NO, BUT HERE’S MY PIPE

Conductor—“This is a smoking car, lady.”
Lady—“Ooh, goody! Got a cigarette?”

Johnnie—“Paul Revere, Theodore Roosevelt, Jesse James, and Barney Google.”

She doesn't bob her hair or wear skirts above her knees. She doesn't roll her stockings or smoke cigarettes. She
doesn’t use rouge or lipstick or paint her eyebrows. She doesn't go joyriding or enjoy petting parties. She doesn’t go
to the movies or visit ice-cream parlors. But she does like a good pasture, and she is a fine Jersey
cow. She gives four gallons of milk a day, and we don’t want to sell her.

MIGHTY THIN

“Does he know any women?”
“Can a bird fly? Why, the twentieth name in his telephone list is Alice Adams.”

“Jack proposed to me last night.”
“Yes? Doesn’t he do it well?”

She—“All men are fools.”
He—“Yes, dear, we were made fools so that all of the women wouldn't be old maids.”

Mere Man—“Come on in and have a drink.”
Phi Beta—“No thanks, but I believe I will have a lead pencil on you.”

QUIT PEEPING!

“George,” whispered the fair one in a nervous whisper as she pushed him away, “You'll have to wait; give me
time.”
“How much?” asked the lovesick youth. “A week, a month, or even a year?”
“Don’t get impatient,” she answered, “only wait until the moon gets under a cloud.”

“I saw four of your fraternity brothers at the dance last night.”
“But I didn’t know that you knew any of them.”
“I don’t, but I recognized the ties you have been wearing.”

“No, I don’t kiss men.”
“That’s all right, I’m only a boy.”

Prof—“Where did Lincoln get his knowledge of human nature?”
Stude—“Following a mule down a corn row, sir.”

“Where's that fresh who thought July the Fourth was a king of England?”

Lather on, water off, then lights out. (Censored). Curtain.

Write your own ticket!

English teacher—“Who were the four horsemen?”

Old Kris is looking forward to his visit 14 days away—so are you—so have we! Everything’s here you can give
a man, and know your good taste is assured:

For Bunk Mate—Ties, socks, handkerchiefs, shirts, gloves, pajamas, house slippers, billfold, cigarette case, collar bag, belt, initial buckles—and such like.
For Dad—Same as above—or a hat, smoking jacket, handbag, briefcase, a pair of shoes, muffler, underwear, etc.
For Yourself—Among other things, a suit of clothes or an overcoat.

MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PIANOS

The new Edison Records—The new Columbia Records
All kinds of musical instruments
406 West Trade Street, Opposite Post Office

A VERY COMPLETE LINE OF THE HIGHEST GRADE CANDIES FOR CHRISTMAS

NORRIS and JOHNSTON
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

Christmas! The mere mention of the “magic” word brings to our minds a host of pleasant memories—of joyful experiences and
delicious eats—and speaking of delicious eats draws our attention immediately to The Student Store.

All Kinds of Supplies for College Men
“Yours—Why Not Patronize It?”
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
WHITMAN’S
