BLUE RIDGE ENTER CONFERENCE H E EIONS FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON } —— Vol. XII i: 7 oa. aa oe Now DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C. MAY 14, 1925 Newly Elected Student Officers Take Oath of Office Friday Morning Hendrix Briefly Addresses Students SAPPENFIELD SPEAKS New Student Councilmen Take Over Control of Government Following Installation The Student Council and Student Body officers for 1925-26 were installed at a special meeting of the student body, held after chapel Friday morning. J. P. Hendrix, retiring president, requested the members elected to the Student Council for next year to take seats on the platform. He then read the oath of office, prescribed by the constitution. The student councilmen, with right hands raised, repeated the oath after him. After the Student Council had been sworn in, Hendrix addressed the students in a few well-worded sentences. He talked of the thing which he said made Davidson stand out in the collegiate world, its Honor System. Other colleges are taking notice of our marked success with our system of self-government and are trying to learn more about it, he stated. He pictured the Davidson student’s priceless heritage in his college and its traditions and expressed his feeling of sadness in leaving the institution for the last time as a student. A great volume of applause from the students at the end of his talk showed their esteem for this man, and their approval of his words. A great burst of applause greeted N. E. Sappenfield, the new president, as he came into office. In his short talk he stressed the dependence of the officers on the cooperation of the students. He pointed out the merits of the student government, and its challenge to every man to uphold the constitution. In closing he pledged to the student body the best that the new officers were capable of in performing their duties and in promoting the interests of Davidson. The officers for next year are: N. E. Sappenfield, president; J. F. Pinkney and W. T. Covington, Jr., vice-presidents. (Continued on page 8) State Title in Doubles Goes to Wildcat Netmen Price and McCutchen Defeat Carolina Team in State Championship Match Harry Price and Lathan McCutchen, representing Davidson in the state tennis tournament, last week won the championship in doubles. Price and McCutchen, Davidson, defeated Solomon and Fuller, Carolina, in one of the hardest-fought and most exciting matches ever seen at Chapel Hill. The final score was, 4-6; 6-4; 11-9; 6-4. As shown by the score, the teams were nearly evenly matched and practically every game was deuced over and over. Although the teamwork of both teams was excellent, the Davidson players were a bit steadier in their play, and this, coupled with McCutchen’s terrific service and hard overhead drives, were too much for the Carolina boys. In the singles Davidson was not so fortunate. Monday the preliminaries were played off and all four of Davidson’s representatives came through. On Tuesday McCutchen and Beall were defeated by Whisnant and Burns, Carolina. Tom Staley, Davidson, was defeated by Solomon, Carolina, in the semi-finals. The thrill of the afternoon came when Whitaker, of Carolina, who, after losing his first set to Price, Davidson, twice singles champion of the state, came back and won his next two sets 6-2, 6-2. Price played a beautiful game, but was unable to (Continued on page 7) Frosh to Perform in Annual Day of Fun Before Sophs Saturday, the 16th, Soph day! Fear and trepidation! These words are synonymous for those ill-fated beings who have had the honor of donning, and now doffing, the little red and black headgears so familiar to everyone on the campus. Soph day is a time-honored tradition at Davidson. On that day the Freshman has all eyes focused on him. A Soph has but to speak and a trembling Freshman does his bidding, humble servants of that great and all-powerful group of he-men known at large as Sophomores. Saturday, the 16th, is the day set aside for this ceremony. Ordinarily Soph day is held earlier in the year, but this year it has been decided to combine Soph day and Cap day. Then, on this eventful occasion, not only do the Freshies get rid of their caps but undergo strenuous treatment at the hands of their “elder brothers.” Various regulations have been drawn up and will be fully explained to the ’28’ers before the sixteenth dawns. Special entertainment will be provided for the “wearers of the cap” on Saturday afternoon. Saturday night, at the gym, during the show, there will be many opportunities for the Freshmen to shine. At this time the upperclassmen will sit in judgment and the best performance put on by any group of Freshmen will be awarded special prizes, according to their individual merits. Perhaps they will be allowed to come first in those mysterious rites which have to be gone through with by the fireside on the athletic field after the show. At this time the obnoxious caps will be consigned to the fiery elements for eternity. Seniors Are Interested in Graduation Schedule Plans Are Completed for Best Commencement in Many Years Tomorrow being the last day of classes for Seniors, all interest is becoming centered on Commencement, which is little more than two weeks off. The Senior class has put forth every effort to make the 89th Commencement of Davidson College one which will stand out in the minds of those present for years to come. The invitations were received from the printers and distributed last week, and with them was released a commencement program which promises to be unusually interesting and impressive. The Commencement exercises will begin on Sunday morning, May 31, at 11 o'clock, when Rev. J. G. McAllister, D.D., will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Dr. McAllister is now the professor of Bible and Theology at the Louisville Theological Seminary. He received his education at Hampden-Sidney College and Union Theological Seminary, and since his graduation he has served both of these institutions, the former as president, and the latter as a professor. "Who's Who" speaks of him as a well-known theologian, educator and conference lecturer. Rev. Neal Anderson, D.D., will deliver the annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A., Sunday night at 8:00 o'clock. Dr. Anderson is pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Ga. On Monday afternoon, June 1, Miss Goudyloch Erwin, the class mascot, will entertain the Senior class at a lawn party. Following this, at 5:30, the class exercises will take place. At this time the class day valedictorian, D. B. Wharton; the salutatorian, A. F. Simpson; and the class orator, A. M. Martin, will deliver their respective addresses. W. W. Purdy, the class poet, will give the class poem, and the class gift will also be presented at this time. At 8:00 p. m. the Dramatic club will pre- (Continued on page 6) BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE The Robert E. Lee Hall, at Blue Ridge, where the meetings of the Annual Student Conference will be held from June 16-25. The hall, and its surrounding grounds form a spot of picturesque beauty. Davidson Will Send Men to Blue Ridge Conclave Student Conference in Mountains to be Held in June The Y. M. C. A. Conference for College Men will be held at Blue Ridge, June 16-25, this year, when 500 college men, representative leaders of the Southern colleges and universities, are expected to gather for an eight-day conclave. The speakers that have been secured for the conference this year include leaders in religious, political and economic thought of the times. Dr. John R. Mott has for 10 years been General Secretary of the North American Y. M. C. A., and is now Secretary of the National Council. He has visited a number of foreign countries, and has come in intimate contact with students of the world. He was one of the outstanding speakers at the International Volunteer Conference in Indianapolis in 1923. His living message to the delegates at Blue Ridge. Dr. Robert E. (Continued on page 8)Blue Speer, of New York, is an DAVIDSONIAN ENDS TEN YEARS OF SERVICE

With this, the last issue of the year for The Davidsonian, the 10 years of faithful service comes as a milestone along the road to success. The paper was founded by the class of 1915, and it has lived up to its reputation as being the livest wire on the hill. Starting as a four-column sheet of four pages, the paper has grown in size and stature, along with the growth in news and editorial comment. It has ever kept up with its policy of being for the best interest of the college and the student body.

The recognition of being for two years the best college newspaper in the state has been extremely helpful to the editors and those who have had the interest of the paper at heart. It will be the policy of the present staff to keep The Davidsonian on the same high plane that it has always been, and make it known as the very best paper in the South.

Dramatic Club to Promote Interest in Amateur Plays

Frederick Shilton was elected president of the Davidson Dramatic Club for the year at a meeting held in Shearer Chapel last Friday morning, with Linton Deck as business manager, this being the first time that the organization has had a supervisor of the financial department. Pigey Martin is the retiring president.

Plans are being made for the most successful year in 1925-26 that the organization has ever had. A large number of students have evidenced a lively interest in the production and writing of plays this year, and it is believed that an even larger number will answer the first call of the footlights next fall. Prof. Edward J. Erwin has rendered efficient service as director of the Dramatic Club this year, and it has been due to his expert direction that the organization has achieved a measure of success. Five original one-act plays have been staged this year, and two more will be presented during Commencement week. One of the plays, “On With the Show,” was presented at a private performance several weeks ago, but it will be presented again during Commencement. Some 30 or more men have taken part in the various productions put on this year, exclusive of several young ladies of the town who have kindly given their talent to the production of the plays.

It is planned to make the membership in the club more exclusive next year; that is, to require a certain amount of work before election to the organization. Also, it is planned to have some sort of recognition in the shape of a pin of some kind, to be worn by members.

Currie Wins New Praise at Big Greensboro Meet

Davidson Star Places Second in World Record for Hundred Yard Dash in Greensboro

John Currie, all-time premier Davidson dash man, continued his course toward track fame Saturday afternoon when he placed second in the hundred and two-twenty yard dashes at Greensboro as Jack Scholtz broke the world’s record in the former event. Running just behind the Olympic champion, Scholtz, as he lowered the world’s record for the hundred to 9 6/10 seconds and as he struck off the furlong in 21 flat, Currie showed that he was not only in the class with freshman and varsity athletes, but in the class of the best runners of the United States and the world. The races were at an invitation track meet.

Currie started off his track career at Davidson by winning first place in the hundred, 220, and 440 dashes, as the Davidson freshman won over all the North Carolina high schools at the track meet here in March. Later on, John won first in the hundred and 220 at Chapel Hill over all the freshman athletes of the North Carolina colleges and universities. His biggest step into fame came at the varsity meet with Clemson College, on Richardson Field when Currie, running unofficially, came out ahead of all the Davidson and Clemson dash men with a speed of 9 9/10 seconds, later on placing second in the 220 dash.

At Greensboro, Currie was running on a hard clay track, which Scholtz said was the best for speed he had ever encountered in his track experiences.

The Freshman tennis team is going well, and just at this time is on a state jaunt. Price, Trotter, Staley, and Beall all graduate this year, and somebody is going to take their places. That means that somebody is going to practice all the time this summer and try to make that team next year.

Davidson Bows to Duke After Thrilling Rally in the Seventh Inning

Wildcats Are Nosed Out After Thirteen Innings of Play

LAST GAME OF YEAR

Duke Gets Off to Early Lead But Davidson Stages Great Come-Back

In a thrilling battle at Monroe last Saturday afternoon, the Wildcats closed their 1925 baseball season by losing to the Duke Blue Devils by the score 9-8. The game was featured throughout by pretty work from both teams.

Duke started the scoring in the first inning, running up a four-run lead, which the Wildcats were unable to overcome until the seventh inning. Davidson scored first in the second. With the bases full and one out, Davis was hit by a batted ball and Glenn was caught off second so that only one run was marked up. The Wildcats scored again in the fourth by free passes and a wild throw; and finally tied the score in the seventh by sending two men across the plate. In the twelfth, each team scored again, Duke by a three-base clout, followed by an infield out; and Davidson by Alford's single and a double by Covington. The winning run was made in the first of the thirteenth when, with two out, a Duke player singled to left field and made third when Wrenn tried to catch him stealing second and “pegged” wild. He scored when Saunders singled to right.

The feature of the game was Glenn's beautiful catch of Thompson's hit in the eighth. With Johnson on third, Thompson hit what appeared to be a sure one over Glenn's head, but with a mighty leap, this doughty warrior brought the ball down with a one-hand stab that brought the stands to their feet in applause. Several double plays were made by each team which cut somewhat down the score. In every instance, two bases were occupied. Laird, hero of Friday's eleven-inning battle with Wake Forest, was sent in in the seventh to save the game and by good headwork when (Continued on page 8)

Striking Message Brought to Students by Mrs. Robson

Mrs. Robson Thrills Audience With Beautiful Mother’s Day Address

Mrs. A. B. Robson, who has been in charge of the Davidson infirmary for nearly a score of years and a mother to every Davidson man, spoke at vespers last Sunday afternoon. Mrs. Robson spoke on the theme of Mothers, the occasion being Mother's Day.

The speaker began by telling a story to illustrate her theme. She said, “An angel came down from heaven, and when ready to return, wished to take a true remembrance of its trip. A beautiful bouquet first met his eye, and thinking this the most beautiful thing he could carry back, he plucked them. Next, he saw a child, in its sweet simplicity playing. Nothing could be more beautiful than this, the angel thought. But then he saw a mother’s love, gushing over the child in a never-ceasing stream. So the angel took all three and started back to heaven. But when he had reached there, the flowers had wilted, the child’s happy smile had faded, but the mother’s love was as strong and as pure as when it was on earth. It was the only thing that could endure both in heaven and earth.

“Mother's spirit never fails. She counts sacrifice a privilege. She expects and knows her son to be the very best in the world. Every day is Mother’s Day. Even now we feel the invisible presence of the hundreds of mothers whose sons are present here. Their prayers are descending in all these (Continued on page 6)