ATTEND THE QUEENS COLLEGE CONCERT

Vol. XII FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MARCH 5, 1925 WATCH FOR THE KIPLING RECITAL No.
20

Trustees Board Decides Upon New Professors For the Coming Year

Several Changes Are Made in the Faculty for the Ensuing Year

TRUSTEES ENJOY PARADE

Allowance Made for University Study—Dr. Hood Granted Leave of Absence

The board of trustees of the college held their mid-winter meeting in the library building on Wednesday, February 25. Dr.
W. L. Lingle, president of the board, called the morning session to order at 9:30. The board at its session
took up for consideration and action President Martin's report submitted February 24 to the executive committee meeting in Charlotte. The
following matters were considered and acted upon: A continuance of the allowance for providing six weeks of study at some
university of standing to as many as three professors of the college each summer; re-election of these members of the
faculty for another year: Dr. C. M. Richards, Rev. K. J. Foreman, O. J. Thies, Carl Wachter, A. V. Goldiere,
Fred L. Blythe, W. N. Mebane (transferred to the department of mathematics), Fred W. Hengeveld, registrar, and Miss Cornelia Shaw,
librarian; appointment of E. A. Beatty as assistant in English, E. G. Bailey as assistant in Bible and Greek, and
J. H. Davis assistant in Biology the coming year, for Mr. Beatty is at present pursuing graduate study and instructing
in the University of South Carolina. Mr. Bailey has been superintendent of schools in Davidson the past three years. J.
H. Davis will have com- (Continued on page 6)

Professor Wachter Will Have Artists in Recital

Mr. Neal and Mrs. Baker of Charlotte to Assist in the Kipling Recital

Professor Carl Wachter, Mr. Will Neal, and Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker will present a special program for the benefit of
The Davidsonian on Friday evening, March 20, at Shearer Hall. It is quite a pleasure to those sponsoring this entertainment
to announce the appearance of such talented artists. Professor Wachter, lately of Richmond University, is now an instructor in English
and Public Speaking at Davidson, and has already proven his ability to handle parts such as he will take in
this entertainment. His likable nature and ready wit have made him unusually popular with the students, and as a public
speaker he is even more of a favorite. Mr. Neal is a talented baritone, and is quite prominent in musical
circles throughout the Carolinas. He graduated from Davidson in 1917, where he had been a great asset to the musical
organizations, and had first entertained audiences with his delightful personality and his rich, baritone voice. For the past five years
he has studied with Mrs. Baker, and has developed into an accomplished soloist. He is an artist in his interpretation
and his diction is also of high order. Mrs. Baker's work in directing the Glee Club needs no comment, and
she will be enthusiastically welcomed when she makes her appearance in Shearer Hall on Friday evening, March 20. The purpose
of The Davidsonian in arranging this program is to provide a high-class entertainment for the students and townspeople and at
the same time give them an opportunity of supporting their paper, in order that it may end the year free
from any debt such as was overhanging the present staff at the first of this year.

GAMMA SIGMA EPSILON ELECTS MEMBERS

At its annual spring initiation Gamma Sigma Epsilon, national chemical fraternity, initiated seven new men. All of these men have
high scholastic averages, not only in the chemistry department, but in their other studies as well. Membership in this fraternity
is honorary, the prospective members being observed in their research work before being bid. From the Senior class, J. P.
Hendrix and M. W. Fenwick were initiated. From the Junior class were selected: C. L. Bragaw, J. E. Earnhardt, H.
C. Lawson, H. H. Roseberry and J. W. Norwood.

William and Mary Host to O. D. K's

The sixth annual convention of Omicron Delta Kappa National Honorary Fraternity was held at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va.,
on Friday and Saturday, February 20 and 21. Delta Circle, located at Davidson, was represented by C. M. S. McIlwaine.
The Friday session was devoted mainly to routine business and appointment of committees. Friday night the convention delegates were guests
of Eta Circle, William and Mary, at a banquet. The national officers of the fraternity were elected at the closing
session of the convention on Saturday morning. They are: Prof. A. G. Williams, William and Mary, president; J. H. Hewlett,
Centre College, vice-president; W. M. Brown, Washington and Lee, secretary. National executive councillors chosen were: W. L. Prince, Richmond University;
J. C. French, Johns Hopkins; G. I. Schram, University of Pittsburgh. In the future conventions will be held biennially instead
of annually as heretofore. The next session will be in 1927, the meeting place to be chosen at a later
date. After the convention the delegates were taken on a sight-seeing tour of the places of historic interest in the
neighborhood. Several places which are interesting because of their association with Colonial and Revolutionary history were visited.

Bishop Penick Makes Scholarly Address at Vesper Service Sunday

Bishop of Diocese of North Carolina Impresses All With Masterly Address

SPEAKS OF DOUBTINGS

Sums Up Points That Tell the Spirit of the Present Age of Unrestfulness

Bishop E. A. Penick, Bishop of the Diocese of North Carolina of the Episcopal Church, delivered a stirring and inspiring
address at the vesper service of the Y. M. C. A. last Sunday, on the subject, “Reason and Faith.” Dr.
Penick is a forceful speaker and his message rang with truth. “If I were to select a verse that would
tell the spirit of the age,” began the speaker, “I would select John 10:24, ‘How long dost thou make us
to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly.’ We should be able to discern the signs of the
time which we are living. What are some of the characteristics of our age? “First, our age is characterized by
liberty. We no longer submit to any form of bodily servitude, but the freedom we talk the most about now
is the freedom of the mind. In this age a person is allowed to think what he pleases. The old
tyrant that used to tell men what they could think is buried forever. “Our age is also characterized by the
spirit of inquiry. Men are asking very pertinent questions and are seeking the truth in every department of knowledge under
the glass of investigation. New fields of knowledge are being opened up and the old roots in the old fields
are being plowed up. In spite of all criticism men are seeking the truth. “The third characteristic is the demand
for facts. The mark of a modern man is his insistence upon exactness. He wants something reliable, and men are
asking for facts because they want to know. We are tired of the half truth.

Forensic Council Draws Up Complete Schedule

Debates, Declamations and Essay Contests Are Fixed for Spring Months

Because of the radical changes made in the rules of the inter-society agreement this year, the polity division of the
Forensic Council has only recently completed the schedule of inter-society activities for the spring semester. The program is an extensive
one, including the Junior Oratorical contest, the Freshman-Sophomore debate, the Freshman Declaimer’s contest, and the Essayist’s contest. The winners of
each of these contests will receive gold medals. The preliminaries for the Junior Oratorical contest will be held on March
24. All Juniors who are members of the literary societies are eligible for the contest. Six men will be chosen
to compete for the first honor in the finals which will be Friday, April 10, during Junior Speaking. Preliminaries winners
of the semi-finals meet a week later.For the Fresh-Soph debate are dated for April 8. The semi-finals will be on
April 21 and the finals on April 28. The query is: contest, states. In the semi-finals the Metrophilians meet the
Pandemic team while the Meneans oppose the Philanthropic trio. (Continued on page 6)

Resolved, That capital punishment should be abolished by the various European states.

“Finally, the present age is characterized by the spirit of sincerity by which men are governed. Some ages are skeptical,
and some say we need a high type of skepticism. The trouble is that we try to think we are
the criteria for all truth.” Dr. Penick continued by saying that the demand for facts seems to be predominant in
our age, especially in matters of religion. “How long wilt thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ,
tell us plainly.”

“We are often troubled with doubt as to the certainty of Christian truth,” he said. “Things seem to be vague
and mysterious. Let me call your attention to two things: first, that the simplest fact of life is a mystery;
second, that the most profound mystery is a simple fact. I have reference to the incarnation of Jesus Christ.” (Continued
on page 5)

Entertainment DeLux
A Rudyard Kipling Program
Professor Carl Wachter
Assisted by Mr. Will Neal, Baritone
With Mrs. Coral Hayner Baker at the Piano
Friday Evening, March 20
Shearer Hall at 8:15 o’Clock
Admission 50c. All Seats Reserved
Benefit of the Davidsonian

STUDENTS RAISE FUNDS FOR SWEATERS

In accordance with an ancient custom at Davidson, admission was charged to the Wake Forest game last Saturday, for the
purpose of raising funds with which to purchase sweaters for the members of the basketball team. It was hoped by
the athletic authorities that the gate receipts from this game would total enough to defray the cost of these awards,
but a final count revealed that only sixty-five dollars were collected at the gate. According to a recent announcement, the
cost of the sweaters will amount to at least ninety-five dollars, and plans will be launched immediately to raise the
remaining amount.

Queens Will Flock Here for Concert

The Queens College Glee Club will give a concert at Shearer Hall Friday night at 7:30, the proceeds going to
the Glee Club. When the Queens visit Davidson, they always bring something good, and this promises to be no exception.
There will be good music galore, consisting of various selections from the “Frisky Five,” a red hot jazz orchestra. They
play late selections and everyone will be well pleased with this part of the program. They bring quartets also that
give real music. There will be excellent soloists among whom will be Beulah Holmes, who has great ability as a
singer. The club consists of the following girls: Beulah Holmes, Mildred Gillis, Mildred Turner, Mae Joyner, Irene Frezer, Emily Tifford,
Pauline Owens, Virginia Peace, Margaret McLean, Elizabeth Patterson, Sarah Black, Jean Creighton, Hilda Nance, Muriel Jones, Zoe Pangle, Louise English,
Annie Barton McFall, Laura Frances Steele, Margaret Gibbon Smith, Annie Mae Pritchett, Eugenia Stinson, Genevieve Klutz, Annie Parks Moore, Caribel
Graham, Margaret Chason, Olive Searratt, Eleanor Catheart, Miss Girardeau, Miss Sharp, Miss Schuesler, Miss Starr, and Miss McArthur. With a
chorus of this number of girls (Continued on page 6)

Field Day is Postponed Until Friday Afternoon

All Men Interested in Field Sports Are Wanted—Prize to be Given

Owing to the fact that many freshmen and sophomores have laboratory engagements Thursday afternoon, this track and field event had
to be postponed until the following Friday afternoon. At 4:00 o'clock Friday, March 6, Coach Tex Tilson expects some hundred-odd
track athletes to make their appearance on Richardson Field for the contest. For the past two or three weeks there
have been some 30 or 40 freshmen steadily busy working on the track and putting it in readiness for the
coming big meets of the season, and it now is in perfect shape for a meet. The primary object of
this field day is to stimulate interest among the student body in track athletics and to give the coaches a
(Continued on page 3)

Davidson Quint Closes Successful Season by Beating Deacons 48-28

Wildcats Bewilder Baptists With Fast Passing and Quick Shots

WHOLE TEAM STARS

Quakers Go Under on Friday Night When Presbyterians Play Too Fast for Them

The Davidson Wildcats finished the 1925 basketball season in top-notch form following Friday night's 48-18 victory over the Guilford quint.
They walked away with Hank Garrity’s Demon Deacons to the score of 48-28 in the local gymnasium on Saturday night.
In the two final games, the Davidson pass-work was at its best, the Wildcats completely bewildering their opponents with a
sharp, snappy attack followed by quick and accurate shots through the basket. In the Charlotte game, the Davidson team outpassed
Wake Forest but were beaten by the Baptists’ ability to cage short shots with greater accuracy.

Davidson 28, Wake Forest 33

The Baptists took the lead early in the game, ending the first half at 21-14, but toward the close of
the second period Davidson staged one of its famous comebacks and shot ahead at 25-23. Then the Baptists, with Ellington
caging short shots to perfection, came back and forged ahead to a final 33-28 win. The first few minutes were
played nip-and-tuck, with Emerson, of Wake Forest, and Staley, of Davidson, leading the scoring. Then Daniels injured his ankle, causing
Ellington to go in and incidentally winning the (Continued on page 8)

I. R. C. Sends Parker and Gudger to Big Conclave

Roland Parker Elected One of the Vice-Presidents of This National Association

The annual convention of the Southern Students’ International Relations Clubs was held at Spartanburg, S. C., February 26-28 inclusive, with
Converse and Wofford Colleges acting as hosts. The convention was marked by its brilliant speakers, interesting student programs, and gala
social events. There were 100 delegates present, representing 35 of the South’s leading colleges. R. B. Parker and J. R.
Gudger were delegates from the local club to the convention. M. W. Trawick was an elected delegate, but was unable
to attend on account of illness.

The convention was opened Thursday afternoon at Converse, where the first sessions were held, with addresses of welcome by Dr.
Pell, President of Converse, and Dean Snyder of Wofford. Responses were made by Miss Buckner, President of Brenau, and R.
B. Parker, of Davidson.

One of the interesting features put on by the student delegates was a splendid debate on the question, Resolved, That
the entrance of the United States into the League of Nations would be her greatest contribution to World Peace, in
which Wofford, upholding the affirmative, downed Erskine College 5 to 0. The delegates were delightfully entertained during their stay in
Spartanburg. Converse held two enjoyable receptions for the visiting students, and Wofford also entertained them with a reception. Saturday evening
the Spartanburg Chamber of Commerce gave a formal banquet for the delegates, which was a fitting climax for the convention.

Six new members were admitted to the association: Peabody, Emory, N. C. C. W., Coker, Judson, and Columbia. The officers
elected for the year are as follows: (Continued on page 6)
