THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1925

Students Elect Men to Act as Members of the Board of Publications

Three Men to Supervise Financial Management of Student Publications This Year

C. F. Smith, R. B. Parker, and L. D. Wharton, Jr., were elected the student members of the Publications Board for this year on the first ballot on Friday morning, October 2. Two men were nominated from each of the three student publications by the respective staffs. The six nominees were Smith and Wharton, from The Davidsonian; Monk and Parker, from the Davidson College Magazine; and Shaw and Graves, from the annual.

The Publications Board was originally formed in the spring of 1924 when an amendment to the constitution of the student body providing for it was passed. The following fall the board entered on its duties. It was composed of three student members, from whom the president is elected, and two faculty members, who are appointed by the administration of the college. These five men in their capacity as the board have complete supervision of the financial administration of the three student publications. It is their purpose to keep the publications on a firm financial basis. At the regular monthly meetings, the three business managers present to the board a written financial report. In this way, the standing of the publications will be kept before the supervisors.

The business managers for the following years are to be elected each spring by the Publications Board, the managers selected from the men recommended by the different staffs. These managers are directly responsible to the board and may at any time be removed from office if they are found incompetent and undesirable.

Smith, Parker, and Wharton are well known and prominent in the literary work of the campus. Smith is editor of The Davidsonian, assistant poetry editor of the magazine, member of Sigma Upsilon, honorary literary fraternity, and Delta Pi Kappa, honorary journalistic fraternity, and a brilliant writer of poetry, essays, editorials, short stories, and plays. Parker is associate editor of The Davidsonian, essay editor of the magazine, member of Sigma Upsilon and Delta Pi Kappa, and writer of a number of short stories and essays. Wharton is the first member of his class to be chosen for The Davidsonian staff and is now associate managing editor. He is also a member of the Davidsonian Press Bureau, press correspondent in many leading colleges in the East, essayist, and a member of the annual staff and Delta Pi Kappa.

CALENDAR

THURSDAY, OCT. 8:
7:00 p.m.—Pep meeting for Freshmen.
7:30 p.m.—Philanthropic Literary Society.
7:30 p.m.—Eumenean Literary Society.

FRIDAY, OCT. 9:
7:00 p.m.—Pep meeting for everybody, and Fresh parade following.
3:00 p.m.—Wildkittens vs. High Point College, at High Point.

SATURDAY, OCT. 10:
3:00 p.m.—Davidson Wildcats vs. Guilford Quakers, Richardson Field.
8:00 p.m.—Picture show at gymnasium, “Quo Vadis.”

SUNDAY, OCT. 11:
10:00 a.m.—Volunteer Band.
11:15 a.m.—Morning worship.
1:15 p.m.—Christian Endeavor Training Class.
2:00 p.m.—Ministerial Band.
6:15 p.m.—“Y” Vesper services. Mr. Joseph B. Johnson, Barium Springs.
7:15 p.m.—“Y” Cabinet meeting.
7:30 p.m.—Evening worship.

MONDAY, OCT. 12:
7:30 p.m.—Court of Control meeting, Eu Hall.
7:30 p.m.—Lecture by John Cowper Powys, Shearer Hall. Subject: “The Ten Best Books.”

TUESDAY, OCT. 13:
7:15 p.m.—Metrophilian Literary Society.
7:30 p.m.—Pandemic Literary Society.

WEDNESDAY, OCT. 14:
7:30 p.m.—Prayer meeting at church.
9:00 p.m.—Discussion groups in Temporary building, conducted by Prof. F. K. Fleagle and Prof. K. J. Foreman.

Dramatic Club to Enlarge Its Scope

With the reorganization this fall, the different organizations on the campus include the Dramatic Club. The Dramatic Club this year will be more closely and strongly organized than ever before and expects this to be an outstanding year in dramatics at Davidson. There are a number of talented stage artists in the upper classes and some potential talent in the Freshman class. With Fred Smith, a veritable playwright and actor, as president of the club, and Prof. E. J. Erwin, of the English department, as director, the prospects for the year are bright.

There will be a social meeting sometime in the near future of all of the old members of the club and those who have turned in their names as being interested in dramatic work. No very definite plans have been made yet, but it will be the purpose of this meeting to formulate plans for the coming productions of the club.

The leaders of the club expect to enlarge the scope of dramatics here this year. They will co-operate with other colleges and high schools in giving plays, assisting them in the selection and production of plays, and writing them for them when necessary. The club will also assist the Glee Club with the program for Stunt Night. As has been the custom for the past few years here, all of the plays given will be written and produced by local talent. Some very successful plays were presented last year, and with some of the playwrights discovered last year, more are to be expected this year. There will be certain requirements for membership in the club this year, in this way raising the standard of membership and the prestige of the organization.

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA (Continued from page 1)

International Relations Club, and also president of the Honorary Fraternity Council. He is secretary and treasurer of the Senior class. G. F. Laird is one of Davidson's outstanding athletes, hailing from Decatur, Ga., where he got his first training in athletics. He is a three-letter man, having been awarded the “D” in football, basketball, and baseball, and winner of the Norris Trophy, a cup awarded to the best all-round athlete in the college. He is captain of the basketball team for the coming year. Flake is a member of the Kappa Sigma Fraternity and also of the Pan Hellenic Council.

C. F. Monk is also from Georgia, his home being in Moultrie. He came here from the University of Georgia and at once became a leader among his classmates. Last year he was assistant editor of The Davidsonian and a member of the Court of Control. He is editor of the Magazine this year. He is cheerleader this year and a member of Sigma Upsilon Literary Fraternity.

E. K. Regen, a native of Franklin, Tenn., has always been a leader in his class, having been vice-president his Freshman year. He is manager of this year’s football team, a member of the “Y” Cabinet and “Y” Board of Control. His name was included on last year’s honor roll. He is a member of the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity.

J. W. Anderson is the captain of this year’s track squad and a letterman in football. His home is in Anderson, S. C. “Red” is also the president of Pan-Hellenic Council and one of the leaders in the social life of the campus. He is a member of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity.

T. S. Baker comes from Jacksonville, Fla. From his first year, he has been a leader in his class, being president during his Sophomore year. He is a brilliant member of the Wildcat football team, having played end, tackle, and guard. As a tackle, he won a place on the mythical all-state team. He formerly served as vice-president of the Student Body.Body and is now president of the Athletic Association. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity. D. G. Wilson, who is from Atlanta, was chairman of the Junior Speaking Committee and of this year’s Freshman reception committee. He is vice-president of the Senior class, president of the Glee Club, and adjutant of the R. O. T. C. Battalion. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity. Omicron Delta Kappa is an honorary fraternity of national standing, having chapters South. 

The active members of the Davidson chapter are: R. B. Parker, N. E. Sappenfield, J. L. Shaw, C. F. Smith, and A. H. Hollingsworth.

DR. OREN MOORE (Continued from page 1)

a comical death, hanging from the limb of a tree by the hair of his head. “Neither Napoleon nor Caesar were ever able to live down their reputation for having such a great desire for the crown. “Second, to be a king is to know how to be ruled. It is an easy thing to do those things which suit you, but it is awfully difficult to remake your opinions and affairs to fit the ideas of others. “The third characteristic of kingship is courage,” continued the speaker. “Courage is a kingly thing and a princely thing.” 

The necessity of both physical and moral courage was then shown. The story was told of a prince who was at battle and the tide was against him. One of his men had an old, rusty, and worn-out sword. He began to complain and say that the sword was the cause of his failure to conquer the men who came up to meet him in battle. He thought if he had a shining Damascus sword, he could win his way to victory, and he broke the old sword across his knee and threw it away. The prince had had his sword taken from him, was being pushed back until disaster was almost at hand. He came upon the broken sword which the disheartened soldier had abandoned. Picking it up, he began to hew and cut his way through the enemy and soon had turned defeat into victory. His courage was the cause of his success. Moral courage must also be had and temptations must be overcome. 

He referred to Esther, a daughter of the Jews, who had been chosen by Ahasuerus to succeed Vashti as queen. The time came when she had to appeal to the king for the blood of her people. One of the courtly rules forbade anyone to enter the royal chamber unless bidden to do so by the king. Nevertheless, Esther did not refrain, but went on her mission with the words, “If I perish, I perish.” “The haughty arrogant king,” said the speaker, “has gone down in dishonor.” 

The story was told of a general who was going into battle. He saw a child who was lost and wandering around. Before beginning the fight, the general picked up the child and returned it to the mother. “The real leader is the man who knows what is the best for his people and is responsible for them. “The fourth characteristic of a king is discernment of judgment, an ability to seek and follow clearly the attributes of right.” 

The story was told of the man who had practiced shooting peas through a hole until he could shoot all day and never miss, though the hole was not much larger than the pea. Alexander the Great had an exhibition and this man was gotten to show his ability. When Alexander had seen him perform, he went on to the next performance without so much as a word of praise; one of the men asked him if he was not going to reward the man’s skill. He replied, “Yes, give him a bushel of peas.” He could discern the good from the bad. 

“The fifth characteristic of a king is willingness to sacrifice for his people.” He then told the story of a king who called in his physicians to cure his ailments. None of them could find anything wrong with him, though they feared to tell him so because they thought there was. One of them finally told him that if he could sleep in the shirt of a happy man, he would be cured. He sent his couriers into all of the country to find a happy man, whose shirt the king could use to sleep in and be cured. But none could be found. All of the people in his land had been oppressed until none of them could claim happiness. One day a beggar was found rolling in the streets with laughter, happy as could be. When asked for his shirt, he replied that he could have it immediately, but he did not have a shirt to his name. When this sad state of affairs was reported to the king and he realized how degraded his people had become under him, he changed. He saw his mistake and began to correct it. 

“If you would be a king,” said the speaker, “you must go into preparation for it. You gentlemen are the ones who will soon come to the front, and the time may come when the question will arise, ‘Who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?’” 

“I point to the one King of history who had all of the characteristics of a leader, Jesus Christ. He gave up all to live the life of a carpenter. He had the courage to face death and moral temptations. He loved His people for He lived among them and knew their wants and needs. He laid down the rules for all kings to follow. Make God your Regent and be assured of a long and illustrious reign.”

Coach Monk Younger led the meeting and read the scripture. L. L. Kesley introduced the speaker. R. B. Parker led the singing.

The cheering at the game was all that could be expected, and for a time it was feared that the stands would not hold the Davidson boys when the touchdown was made and Laird kicked the goal.

1935, B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.

Give me a pipe . . . and P. A.! When Comp. Lit. and Physics 3-B are crowding for attention; when I’ve just received an over-cut notice from the Dean; when my allowance is a month off and the stub of my checkbook confesses a balance of $9.32, give me a pipe and Prince Albert. I want to be happy! Trouble’s a bubble, they say. And I can prove it . . . with my jimmy-pipe and P. A. Just never was a friend like Prince Albert. Cool and sweet and soothing, P. A.’s true-blue smoke zooms up the stem, knocking troubles for a row of test-tubes. Never a tongue-bite or throat-parch. Just cool contentment, no matter how hard you hit it up. Give me a grate fire to chase the chill of winter nights, an easy chair and my jimmy-pipe packed with P. A. Nearby, a tidy red tin for frequent refills. I know, Brother, I know!

PRINCE ALBERT—no other tobacco is like it! P. A. is sold everywhere in tidy red tins, pound and half-pound tin humidors, and pound crystal-glass humidors with sponge-moistener top. And always with every bit of bite and parch removed by the Prince Albert process. Look at the U. S. revenue stamp—there are TWO full ounces in every tin.