. THE DAVIDSONIAN

At this stage we're all set for action
Just waiting for you to ring up the curtain on everything new
New Suits
New Hats
New Oxfords
Quality---the best
New Furnishings
Prices---reasonable
SODA
PARKER
COLLEGE
FOUNTAIN PENS AND
A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.

Saturday night, Coach
Wildkittens Down Long Creek on Local Court
Listless Game Won by Freshmen by a 45 to 30 Count—Scrubs Play

In a rather exciting contest here Saturday night, Coach Rawson's fighting quintette emerged on the big end of a 45-30 count with the strong Long Creek team. The score at the end of the first half stood at 26-21 in favor of the locals. At times the teamwork of both aggregations approached a high point of brilliancy, only to grow dim again in a session of slow play. The game was hotly contested but was marred by the inconsistent and rather ragged playing of both teams. The Wildkittens have room for improvement and will have to take on more speed and form to successfully compete with the other Freshman teams of this section. Coach Rawson has developed a fairly strong offensive quint but his defensive speed must be bolstered. 

The Long Creek lads, recently conquered by "Tex’s Cowboys," put up a scrappy fight, but the offense of the Freshmen was too great for them. They couldn't overcome the lead piled up against them. At the end of the first quarter, the whole second team was substituted and made a very good showing. During their stay of ten minutes in the contest, the scrubs increased the lead from four to five points. Coach Tex Tilson worked out a nice job in the role of referee. The Davidson line-up was as follows:
McColgan, R. T.
Milner, L. T.
Wilson, C.
Brown, R. G.
Harrison, L. G.
Substitutes: Hall, Mauldin, Lipton, and McAuley.

Miss Orrie Steele has moved from the Worth home on Concord Street to the Maxwell Chambers Hotel, where she has taken a suite of rooms.

CIGARS

NONE TOO SMALL
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

Exchanges

The fullback of the University of Wisconsin football team died recently from shocks and injuries received when 700 volts passed through his body in an engineering lab.—Ex.

Thirty-eight percent of the students of the Georgia School of Technology are fraternity men.—The Technique.

A matrimonial agency has been started in Ottawa University. Two sophomore girls guarantee anybody a date for 25 cents. (Burlap holders please note.)

The girls of Greenville Woman's College (S. C.) have challenged the senior class at Furman University to a crossword puzzle contest. Much interest is being shown in this new intercollegiate sport.—Bulldog.

The 1925 Yackety-Yack, the annual of the University of North Carolina, will run in their beauty section a picture of the most beautiful girl in Elon College. This will be a signal honor for the chosen beauty.—Maroon and Gold.

The College of Mechanics in the University of California. When asked why she came to the United States for her education, she said that she had been influenced by reports of excellent mechanical courses at the University.—Daily Californian.

Who Knows?

That at the opening of the college in 1915 a golf club was organized and every student wishing to become a member had to pay $5.00. It was decided that a two-ball foursome tournament would be held. The players were to pair off in teams of two, two men playing with the same ball. The object of this tournament was to create a team spirit, which was to result in a Davidson College Golf Team. Plans were drawn up for a tournament.

That Davidson had a gymnasium team that made a trip to Kings Mountain and put on an exhibition at the celebration held on the anniversary of the battle of Kings Mountain in 1915.

That the drinking fountain was presented to the college by the class of 1916, with their class number glazed upon it. Prior to the erection of this fountain, the old “College Well” held dominion in thatimmediate vicinity. That Greek was also a “jonah” for Woodrow Wilson. His grade for the spring term, as shown by the records in the library, was 88 as compared to 92, his next lowest grade. That Dr. Martin, accompanied by a Charlotte delegation, called upon Vice-President Marshall and invited him to deliver an address at the celebration of the one hundred and thirty-ninth anniversary of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence on May 20, 1914. Each member of the party extended a personal invitation to Mrs. Marshall for it was only through their combined efforts that he finally agreed to participate in the celebration. That there appeared an editorial in the December issue of The Davidsonian in 1915 to this effect: “We wish to thank the faculty for extending our Christmas holidays to the fifth of January. We have a faculty unexcelled in its consideration of the students’ wants and desires. It lends its heartiest support to every worthy college activity. Let us stand behind our faculty then, as it has always stood behind us.” That in 1924, ten years later, an article to this effect: “And they cram two holidays into one, and make us attend chapel half of that one. We call it the height of ‘Ikieology!’”

Weary Students Rejoice As Exam Period Closes
Tedious Labors Prove Unavailing as Students Suffer Slaughter at Hands of Professors

La talaet! friends! At last! Rome fell, dear History would not be faithful if it did not tell you that the wandering tribes known as the Visiting-Goths brought the entire family to see Caesar. Not only did they come, but they came en plein jour. And family en masse, they ate Caesar out of house and home, so that Caesar got out from under Rome, and did fall down. It was unusual, but certain exams, like Rome, came to an end. It is said on good authority that not even a conditional reflex disturbed the work of the rescuers. An inquest is to be held for the slain, however, it is plain that death came as a result of ignorance. Such a wholesale slaughter has not occurred before in the history of psychiatry,” so say the learned. In spite of the deaths and serious injuries coming from so momentous a catastrophe, there is great rejoicing in the camps of the slain over the fact that the struggle was not an everlasting one. At last, the last came and exams are completely over! Great and spasmodic-like were the groans emitted as the sorely-shot students slipped silently out of the last fray of battle. But on Saturday afternoon, January 31st, the combined forces of the United States Army did not even leave much work for the grave diggers on the scene of conflict. “Freshman, know thy grades!” were the words spoken to no one at all, but the concern felt by the youngest members of the student body is so great over “what might have been, but is now not.” Other hordes of ignorant ones realize that one exam used up fifteen complete and separate blackboards for the questions alone. Another was so long that it is said one student wrote well into midnight before he reached the climax. It is thought that great will be the struggle for knowledge after such a serious and extremely decisive trouncing at the hands of the most terrible enemies of students. It is not definitely known just when the wounded will receive the remains of their well-meaning papers, but even yet does rejoicing continue, exams are over!

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all of your wearing apparel, Tennis Racquet, Golf Clubs and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department McAlister Carson, Manager Phone 3940 Charlotte, N. C.

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE
Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style Bell Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money