DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 16, 1925

SONIAN FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON No. 26

Newly Elected Student Councilmen Take Oaths of Office During Week
Will Have Charge of Student Government During Next Year

FOURTEEN MEN ELECTED
Each Class Has Representation on Student Council—Excellent Group of Men Chosen

With the sophomore elections held Wednesday morning, the Student Body completed their choice of the men who will constitute the governing body—the Student Council—for the coming year. All the men chosen were selected because they were considered to be men who had a high sense of honor and responsibility.

The president of the Student Body, N. E. Sappenfield; and the presidents of the three classes for next year; R. B. Parker, of the rising Senior class; J. F. Pinkney, of the Junior class; R. L. McMillan of the Sophomore class are members of the Student Council because of their position.

The members of the Student Council from next year’s Senior class are: J. B. Shaw, Jr., A. H. Hollingsworth, T. S. Baker, T. S. Lawson, and J. M. Appleby. Buck Shaw was president of the Junior class, is a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet of the coming year, and a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa Fraternity, and one of Davidson's most popular students. He is also editor of the Quips and Cranks for next year.

Hollingsworth was a member of the Student Council this year and is the president of the Y. M. C. A. for the coming year. He is a member of the Alpha Phi Epsilon Fraternity, and Omicron Delta Kappa. Tom Baker is president of the Athletic Association for next year, a member of the Student Council for two years and one of the most popular men on the campus. Buster Lawson was treasurer of the Junior class, and a member of the Junior Speaking Committee. Jim Appleby is a member of the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet for next year, and was a member of the Junior Speaking Committee.

(Continued on page 8)

Bob McMillan Will Lead Rising Sophomore Class
Olin Nisbet and Rod McRae Are Other Officers Elected by Freshmen

At a meeting held Tuesday night in Shearer Hall, the Freshman Class finished their election of officers for the following year. At the meeting held previous to this the class chose Robert L. MacMillan as their President and Leader for next year, to succeed John Foster, of Winston-Salem, who has very capably filled the position this year. At the meeting held Tuesday night, Olin Nisbet was elected Vice-President, to succeed R. E. Wilson, of Charlotte and Roderick MacRae as Secretary and Treasurer, to succeed Harry Peterson of Sautee, Ga.

“Bob” MacMillan, who is a Charlotte boy, is very popular on the Hill. He is one of the leading athletes of the Freshman Class and is a member of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity. The class did well in selecting him for their leader for their Sophomore year. “Mutt” Nisbet is also a product of Charlotte, where he is highly esteemed by all who know him. He was a leader there, in school activities and in athletics, and has continued strong in both.

(Continued on page 7)

Junior Speaking Furnishes Campus Visitors With Continual Program of Fascinating Entertainment
Scores of Beautiful Girl Visitors and Students Find Fun and Frivolity Aplenty in the Festivities Arranged by the Juniors

Sanity Rare Scores a Great Hit With Visitors
Humorous Publication of Junior Class Contains Store of Clean Wit and Fun

“Sanity Rare,” Junior Speaking program is a masterpiece of wit and humor. It far surpasses the magazines published heretofore in cleverness and good clean fun according to the verdict of the critics. The beautiful purple and gold cover makes it attractive to the eye, and valuable as a souvenir to those happy days. The cover illustration is the work of G. R. Shaddock. The magazine is full of jokes, poems, and many illustrations, humorous and otherwise. “Sanity Rare’s” editorial staff consists of C. F. Smith, editor-in-chief, Chester Monk, managing editor, G. R. Shaddock and Kenneth Harris, art editors; the business managers are L. L. Deck, and H. D. Burke. Other contributors were: Kenneth Bell, W. H. Fitts, T. G. McCutcheon, W. E. Milton, E. P. O'Connor, Warren Ogden, H. L. Shelby, D. G. Wilson, M. C. Yeargan and R. B. Parker.

One of the many highlights of the week.

(Continued on page 7)

Davidson Singers Thrill Audience on Friday Night

In spite of the fact that the Glee Club was unable to give its regular program on Friday night, a very able and most entertaining performance was started.

Gala Social Event of Year

The most stupendous, scintillating array of mirth-provoking festivities ever staged at Davidson were included on the program for Junior Speaking. Starting at high noon, Thursday, April 10th, and continuing through Monday evening, the Juniors filled every minute with some form of interesting amusement. Scores of young lady guests brought to the campus vari-colored frocks and added much to the week of pleasure.

The first big attraction was a fine motion picture in the gymnasium Thursday evening, entitled “The Goose Hangs High,” with an all-star cast. The screen attraction was one of the newest releases from the Hollywood studios, and kept the large audience of students and their sweethearts highly entertained for more than an hour.

Friday morning’s program was featured by the annual Junior Oratoricals, in which six speakers delivered interesting and scholarly addresses. Hayden Hollingsworth, speaking on “Idealism” was selected by the judges as winner, after close and deliberate consideration. Friday afternoon was devoted to a baseball game, in which Davidson freshmen crossed bats with Rockingham High diamond outfit. Rockingham won in a game that failed to interest spectators to any great extent.

Saturday afternoon, the University’s Fresh team, and a large crowd of spectators witnessed a thrilling encounter in which Davidson’s Wildkittens returned victor by the rather one-sided score of 23 to 8. The game started out in an interesting manner, but soon developed into a track meet for the Davidson batters, who found it an easy task to hit the Duke visitors at will.

Then came Saturday night—and with it the magazine published by the Junior class as part of the week.

Hollingsworth Wins to Enter National Contest
Continues Oratorical Successes As He Becomes Candidate for National Honors

A. H. Hollingsworth, of Atlanta, Ga. won the preliminaries of the Oratorical contest last night. The other students were Clanecey Williams and Forest Franklin. The subject of the oration was the national constitution. Dr. Hood and Professor Erwin were the judges of the manuscripts and Drs. Wood, Currie, and Shewmake were the judges of the deliveries. Hollingsworth won on the merits of his manuscript and his ability to deliver the oration. His speech showed a great deal of hard labor expended and also a remarkable ability to express his thoughts well.

The winning manuscript will be sent to Washington where it will be placed with those from various other colleges in this section. The seven winners in this will be sent to Nashville, Tenn., where they will compete May 18. The winner of this contest will go to Los Angeles, Cal., to deliver their orations in the finals of the contest on June 5.

Hollingsworth has proved one of the

(Continued on page 2)

Dukes Smothered Under Avalanche As Freshmen Hit

In their first encounterWith a college freshmen team, the Davidson freshmen had a walkaway, defeating Duke University new men here Saturday afternoon. The Jazz Orchestra was unable to perform and rain prevented the Kiser Brothers from being present. Both handicaps were remedied, however, by substitutions. The Symphony Orchestra gave three performances instead of two, and Mack Lockhart rendered several guitar solos, accompanied by Proxy Thompson, in order to make up for the absence of the Jazz Orchestra. The Earnest Brothers furnished popular string music during the intermission.

The stage of Shearer Hall was beautifully decorated with early spring flowers. Pots of dogwood blossoms were arranged across the front of the stage and behind the footlights. This was the first feature performance of Junior Speaking and a large crowd of visitors, as well as townspeople, was present. The first number was “The Joy of the Hunter” by the entire chorus. This was followed by the “Interrupted Serenade,” after which Ed Wilson rendered several popular solos including “Honest and Truly.” After the Symphony Orchestra had given two selections, the “Wildcat Four,” consisting of Tom Barr, Frank Hudson, Ed Wilson, and John Foster, won the hearts of the audience for a short time. The order of events was practically the same throughout, with variations in solos and quartets. The K. K. K. made a hit by its humorous selection, The Skunk. The prevailing number of the Symphony Orchestra was The Anvil Chorus.

(Continued on page 5)

The climax, and the students and guests found amusement aplenty in the well-directed attractions. With the band playing, drums beating, and all kinds of noise-making devices going full blast, Davidson students with their sweethearts were greeted at the gymnasium for the final and biggest event of Junior Speaking on the Hill Saturday night. For some days the committee had been hard at work, decorating the gym, practicing various parts, writing the magazine, and doing the thousands of little things necessary before such a circus could be put on effectively. On entering the gym one was impressed by the decorations. The place truly resembled the Big Top of Barnum and Bailey's. Class colors were used for carrying out the decoration scheme, great streamers of purple and gold were draped across the ceiling and hung from the beams to make a wall between the carnival proper and the minstrel section. The southern end was fixed up for the minstrel with quite a large stage against one wall and a section of bleachers for seats. The fun started when the minstrel chorus made their appearance with the opening number, “All about Girls.” R. E. Wilson sang the solo part and according to one fair visitor, he had the cutest voice of the evening. With such a beginning, each following warbler tried to outdo the other. Woodrow Wilson was next with a foghorn solo.

The years (Continued on page 6)

Kittens romped around the bases with ease, and in which the Duke men had to use four pitchers to stop the onslaught. Duke fresh started off with two runs in the first, but Poole tightened down, and let them have one in the fourth and two in the fifth, followed by a letup in the eighth when he allowed three tallies. Davidson bunched her runnings, five men trailing across home plate in the first inning, with a scoreless period of four innings following. Then began a punch that told on the Duke twirlers, the Davidson freshmen scoring three, six, and eight runs in the next three innings, respectively. In a game in which hitting seemed to be predominant, little of importance occurred except the large number of runs, hits, and errors. Poole, however, in addition to pitching the game, made four hits out of six attempts, and while other players used the bat effectively, this was perhaps the feature.

Box score:
Duke Fresh AB R H PO A E
Cranford, 2b 2 2 3 1 3 0
Bennett, ss 4 0 0 2 0 0
Fulghum, lf 4 0 0 2 0 0
Bunting, cf 4 0 1 2 0 3
Bruton, 3b 4 0 1 2 0 0
Gay, rf 4 0 1 2 0 0
Sutton, c 4 0 1 2 0 0
Jones, p 1 0 0 0 0 0

(Continued on page 8)

National

Tar Heels Take Easter Diamond Classic From Wildcats by 8-3 Score
Davidson Loses Again as Carolina Pounds Ball Over Salisbury Park
COVINGTON HITS HARD
Wildcats Rally in Seventh and Ninth But Are Unable to Overcome Carolina’s Lead

By pounding Laird hard at the right moments, the University of North Carolina baseball team downed the Davidson bunch in the annual Easter Monday game, played in the new Piedmont League Ball Park in Salisbury. A considerable crowd was present, overflowing from the full bleachers into left field along the fence. The crowd was estimated at 4,500. The game ended with the score 8-3, Davidson doing all of her scoring in the last three innings.

Things started off a lot worse than they ended up. Holshouser, pitching for Carolina, began by striking out three of the first six Davidson batters while his teammates got two doubles and a single off Laird for a total of two runs in the first inning. The Wildcats tightened up in the second frame but Stanton’s double, Gibson's single, a walk to Coffee, and Johnson's triple in the third gave the winners three more runs. They added three more tallies in the seventh when Stanton lifted a long one over the left field fence for a home run. The other two came in when Gibson singled and came in on Coffee's triple. Coffee scored on Simpson’s wild throw home. Davidson made two counters in the seventh, on a walk given Wells and singles by Wrenn, Laird, and Davis, the latter pinch-hitting for Glenn. This rally was stopped when Simpson tried to come home from second on Laird’s single and was caught at the plate by the catcher. The other run was put across in the ninth when Wells came in from third on Laird's long fly to center field. In all, Davidson made seven hits, none for more than one base. Covington led the batting with a brace of singles. The double play, Covington to Woodham to Covington, was a feature of the Davidson fielding. Laird made a

(Continued on page 3)

Wildkitten Orators Win from Wake Forest Team
Davidson Freshmen Win and Lose Contests in Annual Triangular Debates

The annual freshman triangle debate between Davidson, Carolina, and Wake Forest was held on Tuesday evening, April 7. Each college had two teams, one affirmative and one negative, the former remaining at their respective colleges, the latter journeying to other colleges to match their forensic ability with their opponents. The Davidson negative team went to Chapel Hill, and the Wake Forest team invaded the Wildcat territory.

The subject for all the debates was Resolved: That North Carolina should ratify the Port Terminal and Water Transportation Act. The Davidson yearlings showed up well in both debates, winning from Wake Forest 3-0 and losing to Carolina 2-1. The affirmative team here composed of F. D. Daniel, A. F. Dillard, and Leo Pritchett debated Brady, Whittey, and Ashley of Wake Forest. Both sides presented strong arguments and seemed equally matched in their strong delivery. To the last, the outcome was doubtful until

(Continued on page 8)