4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH ---------------- Editor
HAROLD D. BURKE ---------------- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. C. HOBBS ---------------- Managing Editor
P. F. JONES ---------------- Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON ---------------- Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER ---------------- Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE ---------------- Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH ---------------- Alumni Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE ---------------- Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH ---------------- Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. McSWEEN ---------------- Circulation Manager
J. M. McCONNELL ---------------- Subscription Manager
C. W. McMURRAY ---------------- Solicitor
V. S. BROYLES ---------------- Solicitor
B. L. JONES ---------------- Assistant
JULIAN LAKE ---------------- Service Department

Reporters’ Club
C. L. GIBBS, President
M. GARRISON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
M. APPLEBY
D. LAWS
J. M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGG
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
E. P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
V. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Junior Speaking is all over now—all but the fond memories. Those who know say that the recent entertainment given by the Junior Class was the best ever, and that the class as a whole deserves commendation for the splendid program which they gave to the fair visitors on the campus.

Our young friend, the wildcat, looked from behind the bars of his cage at the assemblage in the gym and wondered in his own feline way what it was all about. Perhaps he sighed just a little catlike sigh for the freedom of his native hills where he used to roam. Wouldn’t our mascot look fine in a nice comfortable cage out on the campus where all might see him, and where the cat himself might see the things that go on from day to day?

We wonder how many of the courses that were arranged in the schedules for next year during the last week or two, were put down because they are easy, and how many were entered because they really meant something. It is a lamentable but true fact that many students take certain studies and courses simply because they represent a few units that are required for graduation and a diploma. It is not too late now to change some of those “crips” into studies that will take hard work and will give back much in return.

On the last day of this month and the first two days of May, The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association holds its semi-annual meeting here at Davidson. The meeting held at Greensboro College for Women last fall was a howling success, and we hope that we can show the visiting journalists from all over the state, as good a time as was shown at the meeting in Greensboro. The student body and the editors of The Davidsonian believe that this paper will repeat its triumph of last year and will be acknowledged again as the best college newspaper in North Carolina.

It is a pleasure to walk through the new Chambers building and notice the spacious class-rooms and the well-arranged offices that make up the southern wing. It will be a thing of beauty and durability when completed and something of which the student body can well be proud. The rooms are well lighted and are large enough to accommodate all classes. We predict that the boys will take a greater pride in the new building than in some of the sadly dilapidated ones that it has been our lot to be in.

VACATIONS—THEN WHAT?

There are only six short weeks left in the session of school which we started after the mid-year examinations. After those six weeks there are three months of vacation; a vacation from the cares of class-rooms and arduous studies. By some that time will be spent profitably and carefully, and others will take it only as a period of pleasure between two dreaded periods of study and mental effort.

To some, the summer vacation will mean no more than a continual round of good times and pleasure. They will fail to realize that only two or three summer vacations at the most will find them through with college and ready to embark upon the careers for them. Others will be brought face to face with the problem of securing work that will yield a remuneration sufficient to allow them to return to the hill next year. It is a case of no work, no school, to them. They realize the seriousness of college life, because they are the ones that are backing themselves with funds so that another year of study might be had.

We can make this summer vacation what we will. We can prepare ourselves for future vocations by reading and study. We can observe and discover facts for ourselves, and when September brings with it the opening of college we will have sharper minds with which to work. Many a fellow takes his final examination in May, closes his books with a bang and vows that he never wishes to have to think of any studying until he comes back in the fall. He thinks that he can have knowledge poured into his brain like water into a bucket, at regular intervals, and that it will remain there whether he gives it one serious thought or no. When the time comes when he must show what he has learned, he wonders why the nice facts and figures that he learned in college did not cling to him. When we leave the hill with a diploma grasped proudly in our hand, will be the time for a full exercise of our knowledge. Perhaps we will wonder why we didn’t specialize in some particular subject, or at least learn enough about it so that we might tell it to all the world.

MEMORIES

“You left me alone, but still you're my own, in my beautiful memories.” So sang the poet to the heart of the bereaved. This is no mere prisoner’s philosophy, but solid fact. The electric shock of this truth ought to penetrate any mind. The pessimistic attitude is tolerated only by those who do not realize that it is the part of manly men to keep the mental processes clear. These memories are part and parcel with ourselves. We prune and increase them according to the original plan of our natures, and, in time, we have made, not only a personality, but a character. The stuff that dreams are made of is capable of taking to itself a hardness which exceeds that of granite. When it has thus solidified it bears the impression, clear and lasting, of every memory which we have nourished.

The conclusion is plain. Be these memories tender, or merely sentimental or of solid achievement, or of regret, be they of the beautiful or of the sordid, they have all alike taken their places in our characters. Memory can be trained and directed. When care is taken the garden of memory becomes a store-house of treasures which can be drawn from as life would tempt us to smugness, despondency or recklessness. Yes, memory and spirit together make character and its counterpart—personality.

F. F. D.

SPEAKING OF WRITING

Students of Davidson College have shown a liking for journalistic, and more strictly literary writing. Through the medium of The Davidsonian, The Davidson College Magazine and Quips and Cranks, this taste for writing has been fostered until many have developed their talent for writing to a point where they yearn to enter the fields of professional authorship, where money and fame can be gained.

The college publications have done a great deal in helping with this work, but the work is essentially of a practical nature. What this college needs is a chair of journalism or of written English. With this addition to the English department, a new field could be opened up to those who want to learn the theory and technique of effective writing. Juniors and Sophomores of this year have nothing to look forward to next year in this way of a course that will add to their knowledge of writing. Juniors who finish the English V. course this year, and who wish to develop into successful writers, have no alternative other than to take a course or two in the Elizabethan drama, or in Ameri-

ExchangesChaff

DO PARENTS WANT THEIR CHILDREN TO BE ATHLETES?
By “Hurry Up” Yost

Boys and their parents should remember that there is not so much difference between original ability as there is in the effort made to develop it. It isn’t what nature gives you—provided she doesn’t actually handicap you—that determines how far you will go in athletics; it is what you do with yourself. The well-developed athlete is the man who, while a boy, engaged in the right kind and amount of physical exercise.
—The Emory Wheel.

STUDENTS HERE FORM SOCIETY FOR GREATER EMORY LAST MONDAY
Will Secure Most Promising Material for Freshman Class Next Year

As an important step toward marshalling the forces of all loyal Emory men in the great forward movement for their alma mater, the Greater Emory Students’ Association was tentatively organized Monday morning at an enthusiastic meeting attended by a number of student body leaders. H. Conrad Blackwell was elected temporary chairman and Wirt Cate was appointed acting secretary.
—The Emory Wheel.

The State of Kansas has passed a law that it’s no longer illegal for anyone to smoke. Now their flappers and sheiks will no longer go to bed feeling bad about breaking the law—or be scared about running excess.
—The Cadet.

CLASS FOR STAMMERERS FORMED
University of Southern California—A class meets on the campus every day for the cure of stammering students. Two students have enrolled to date in the course but no credit is given toward a degree.
—Oklahoma Daily.

AS FATE DECREES
Walter Camp, who kept himself fit, and taught the rest of us how to do so, dies suddenly at the comparatively youthful age of 66, while Chauncey Depew, who has eaten three generations of diners-out into their graves, is still hale and hearty at 90. The moral of which is—there isn’t any. Keeping fit is good, so are the pleasures of life. Some people can survive a hundred years of either. Some can’t.
—Emory Wheel.

Obviously, these are not particularly alluring to one who craves to put down his thoughts on paper, and thus develop a most necessary adjunct to a complete education. All men who go into any kind of business need a thorough knowledge of effective and convincing English. There is no better way of acquiring it than by writing. Ministers need to know how to write lucid and appealing sermons. Lawyers, unless they can draw up a brief that will carry a measure of persuasion, cannot get very far in their profession. In fact, the demands of this present-day life of ours show us that we need a thorough knowledge of writing, whatever may be the line of endeavor we may decide to enter. As shown by the large list of men who are on the reportorial staff of The Davidson, and those who edit the other publications, there is a large number of men who are keenly interested in writing. A number are interested in the writing of dramatic productions. Should their talent be allowed to lie dormant a year, because we have no course in the catalog that will give them a chance to exercise their inherent and natural ability to write?

SPRINGTIME
There is a freshness and buoyancy in the air now that makes a fellow’s footsteps light, and his heart lighter. He feels the fires of ambition kindled more strongly within his breast, and a vague longing and uneasiness arises in him. 'Tis Spring—that glorious season of the year when all nature is in her most beneficent and kindly mood. One cannot help but be inspired by the beautiful sight of green, growing things that are a part of God’s wonderful creation. We notice as never before the beauty of the outdoors around us. We vaguely wish for relief from irksome confinement so that we may flee away on fanciful wings to a delightful land of make-believe where we can put aside the things of care and sorrow, and rejoice in fairyland. Springtime and youth are synonymous. As young men, we stand on the threshold of life, ready to be pushed into the steady current, just as a ripened fruit is plucked from a tree. The world is ours, Springtime is here, winter far away, and care and sorrow unknown.

WHO'LL IT BE?
Much to the disappointment of those destined and handpicked by Dame Luck to fill the rapidly depleted ranks of the Mump family, the germs so thoroughly sown by the gentle zephyrs some time ago have failed to develop and grow into full-blown adult cases. Still, these tiny elusive joy-spreading agencies lie hidden, waiting for the knock of opportunity to show themselves in some concrete and perceptible form. Who are the fortunate men who have been selected by Fate to occupy the beds so lately deserted by the famous of the school? If not the most talented and gifted of the sons of the old college, at least they were swell-headed. Or, rather, swell-jawed to be exact. Mump germs are supposed to develop into mature specimens within three weeks after they are spread abroad. The entire student body has been terribly disappointed that the Easter bunny failed to show up with his selected and assorted cases of mumps. Be not impatient though, little ones. Those sleek smooth mugs which now innocently protrude beneath their masters’ life-sustaining intake shall shortly attain that degree of notoriety offered only to the great. Like the classical balloon, they may become ever larger and larger until their honored possessor fairly sails away into the limitless spaces of thyroid expansion. The last batch of the Mump family languished on their beds of suffering unheralded and unsung. These now-to-bes are not to be so neglected. The Davidsonian, in accordance with its policy of awarding the accomplishments of the great and the near great, plans a stupendous and worthwhile prize award to the student showing the largest jaws within a set time. He who exhibits the best rounded, largest, most attractive, ruddiest, grizzliest, and, at the same time, most painful enlargement of the ventral aural region shall receive, absolutely free of all charges and obligations, a brand new unused copy of last week’s Davidson. Unlike the rules governing the majority of such contests, those dealing with this one provide that this valuable gift shall remain in the winner’s family and be handed down to his heirs through all generations. Not for one year shall they possess it, but during the entire duration of his life and of the lives of those who shall display it in their art galleries as proof of their illustrious ancestor's splendid prowess. In determining the lucky one, the judges shall take into consideration all the above-mentioned points of interest. In order to overcome and thwart any attempt of false deception on the part of the contestant, each one is to be firmly jabbed in the part of his oral anatomy under consideration. The man producing the most audible and pathetic groan is to be selected as having the best-developed case as far as the nervous reaction is concerned. Daily observations and recordings of the progress of each individual will be published in a specially arranged Infirmary Bulletin. Every entry is to be entitled to his private nurse at the expense of the college medical department. If the assistant to the patient is unsatisfactory, a more suitable one will cheerfully be called into service. We suggest, in an impersonal way you understand, that all who are contemplating their entrance into this novel contest enroll in M.U.M.P. fraternity at once. This is strictly an honorary organization and the better qualified a prospect is, the warmer is the reception accorded him by the charter members. The enrollment of the club, really comprising a waiting list appended to that of the few original members, is not in any way limited or restricted. The motto (in Latin) is: “Comeus oneus, comeus allus.” And, by way of parenthesis, we would like to insert an editorial to the effect of expressing our personal and private opinion that a more inclusive and yet more aesthetically beautiful employment of that classical tongue has never been made than the one it is now put to. Realizing that the inexperienced may have a few moot points they wish to have cleared up respecting the acquirement and culture of mumps, the ex-inhabitants of the palatial residence for the aristocrats of mumpdom have founded a college with a competent corps of instructors. The space here is too little and insignificant to do justice to the members, or component parts, as they might properly be called; and so we shall refer you to the recently published catastrophe of that nationally known assembly of inflammatory authorities. Although their past glory and distinction is undoubtedly no longer existent, these former confinees of the local prescription publishing house are still somewhat chic and have again adopted the crude and abominable practice of partaking of vitalistic necessities other than eggs.
P. F. J.

“In England,” says a member of the Cambridge debating team, “you go to the university to develop yourself, while in America you go to distinguish yourself.”