8. THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1925

The officers of B Company, Fifth Regiment chapter are: L. B. Huie, Captain; B. U. Ratclifford, First Sergeant; and George Smith, First Lieutenant.

Bishop Gribbens Speaks at Sunday Night Vespers

Rev. R. C. Gribben, of Winston-Salem, was the speaker at the “Y” vesper services Sunday evening. Rev. Mr. Gribben is an alumnus of Citadel and the College of Charleston. Later he took post-graduate work at Columbia University, Harvard, and University of California. Because of his thorough knowledge of college life, Rev. Mr. Gribben was able to give us a message peculiarly adapted to our life here at Davidson.

Rev. Mr. Gribben spoke on “Excuses.” The six reasons he attributed to the making of excuses were: the habit of procrastination; the lack of development of will, in which he described character as the momentum we gain from past choices; the lack of desire; the failure to have consideration for others; the judging of what we do by the examples of other people; and the putting of blame upon someone else. Here Rev. Mr. Gribben cited the prodigal son as an example we might well follow in this respect. Upon his return to his father, the prodigal son did not blame anyone else for his failure, but acknowledged his guilt and acceded his willingness to pay the penalty. At this point, the speaker appealed to us to take the utmost advantage of the great opportunity offered us in a college education.

The second phase discussed by Rev. Mr. Gribben was the value of excuses. He asked us to weigh excuses and their value as if upon a balance and see the result. Through this explicit illustration, the speaker showed the absence of any worth whatever in making excuses. He also asked the question, “how much have excuses helped you in your college career?” and added that we should do all our work when it should be done and as it ought to be done. Rev. Mr. Gribben ended his address in an appeal for higher religious life and activity. He asked that above all things we do not excuse ourselves from reading the Bible and daily devotional exercises.

ERNEST BOHANNON
Davidson, Right End

Bohannon is one of the products of the Davidson high school and has shown good stuff this year.

Cigarette-field Hodgin had a warm date over in Gastonia about a week ago. The young lady, in the course of her conversation with him, said: “And were you ever on a date where you had to pick the hairpins out of your necktie when you left?”

ENGLISH BROADCLOTH SHIRTS $1.75
Made in white only, with or without collar. Splendidly tailored, durable material—everything you’d expect in a much higher-priced shirt. We will promptly fill all mail orders. Sizes 13 1-2 to 18
MELLON’S
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

QUALITY SERVICE
The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.
In College Display Room every Friday
10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

At the review held last Wednesday afternoon, the following men received bids to the Scabbard and Blade, B. Company, Fifth Regiment: B. T. Crawford, L. L. Deck, C. E. Houston, and J. E. Moore. These men were elected to membership.

WINSTON-SALEM PASTOR
GIVES VALUABLE ADVICE ON EXCUSES IN ADDRESS TO STUDENTS

Who does not feel a thrill as he sees several automobiles tearing down a street at breakneck speed? Lovers of...Automobile racing enthusiasts are to have an opportunity to watch some of the world’s fastest drivers in action at the Charlotte Speedway on November 11. For the past few months, preparations have been steadily made, as the management has promised the sporting public a race that will linger long in their memories.

So far, eighteen drivers have entered; drivers whose names are familiar to every fan, and men who are makers of oval history. Milton, Hartz, Hill, and DePaolo are some of them who have signed on the dotted line. Manager Barringer made a statement that Ralph Hepburn has also entered. He is regarded by many as a boy wonder; certainly, he is going to make some of the more experienced racers do some mean driving to make him eat dust at the tape. Peter DePaolo, one of the greatest racers that ever competed on American tracks, is confident that he will not only win, but will break a record or two. The dashing Italian has long been near the head of the list of automobile racers, so any race in which he is entered is sure to be worth seeing.

Announcement has been made that free parking space has been provided to accommodate 15,000 cars. A special system has been worked out to do away with the usual jamming of traffic at such events. This is a great improvement and will do much to add to the success this event is certain to be.

The Scabbard and Blade is a national organization having chapters in all the leading military schools and colleges where there is a R.O.T.C. unit. Its purpose is to encourage general excellence in the military standing of all schools having this unit. Only commissioned cadet officers who have shown excellence in the Regiment are eligible for membership in the organization.

Captain Deck is the second-ranking captain in the battalion. His ability as a commander upon the field is of the highest order. Houston is the high honor man in classwork and first-ranking lieutenant of the battalion. Captain Crayton deserves this honor on account of his efforts in making the band one of the best in the state. He has developed the band to such a degree that it has been called upon several times by various Chambers of Commerce throughout the state to render a program. Captain Moore is a captain of “A” company and well-versed in military science and tactics.

MAGAZINE NOTICE
The attention of all those intending to submit manuscripts to the Davidson College Magazine for publication in the Special Thanksgiving issue is called to the fact that all matter must be in the hands of the editors by the end of the first week in November. Short stories are to be turned in to Roland Parker, 2 Georgia; humorous sketches to Warren Ogden, 25 Georgia; verse to J. H. Brown, 29 Georgia.

GRAY’S CAFE AND AMERICAN LUNCH
Opposite Vance Hotel
Statesville, N.C.
The home of good cooking. We are always glad to have the Davidson boys come to see us when in Statesville.

WALTER CULBRETH CO.
VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

SELLERS Kitchen Cabinet
The best servant you can put in your kitchen.
SOLD IN STATESVILLE BY
Nicholson Furniture Co.

ATTENTION!!
Suits cleaned, Hats blocked, Shoes shined while you wait.
CENTRAL HAT SHOP
Behind New Central Hotel
Charlotte, N.C.

JIM PINKNEY
Davidson, Left End
The Davidson ends have been well cared for this year as Pinkney and Bohannon played good defensive games.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N.C.

SEE WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS
ICE CREAM