THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

Alumni Activities

Many former students of Davidson returned Saturday to see the Wildcats down the Wofford Terriers in a hard-fought battle. Among
these were Elias Faison, '24 and captain of the Wildcat football team in 1923; Pat Crawford, ’23; Bill Menzie, ’23;
Dick Richards, ’23; Don Chipman, '24; Watt McCain, ’25; Tid Cashion, ’19; F. P. Hall, ’19; R. D. Hall, ’19;
H. W. Davenport, ’19; C. H. Long, ’21; W. G. Guille, ’23; J. C. Flint, ’25; Buddie Hines, ’23; Mason
Fields, ’24; Joe Baldwin, ’22; and Brown, ’22. Dunbar Ogden, ’23, was here last week.

During the summer several Davidson men were married. Ormond L. Currie of the class of ’21 married Miss Eloise V.
Martin, daughter of Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson, in Asheville, N. C. Dr. C. M. Richards, pastor of
the Davidson Presbyterian Church, performed the ceremony. M. W. McGill, ’22 was married to Miss Mildred Burch in Franklin, N.
C., on June 17th. Two of the weddings of the alumni took place in Washington, D. C. These were those
of Cecil Kenneth Brown, ’21, to Miss Catherine M. Matthews on August 26th, and Marshall A. Thompson to Miss Mary
Lewis Nivison, September 5th. Rev. H. W. Poole married Miss Mary Ella Howard, July 1st, in Sultan, W. Va. M.
McLeod of the class of ’22 was married to Miss Dorothy Shaw, June 24th, in Sumter, S.C. Two other marriages
were those of W. G. Humphrey to Miss W. Parksdale, August 6th in Jackson, Miss, and E. H. Tufts to
Miss Helen Stinson at Banner Elk, N.C, on September 8th.

Several Davidson men are now attending theological seminaries. Piggy Martin ’25 and Bob Davidson, ’23 are studying at the Presbyterian
Theological Seminary at Louisville, Ky. L. B. Gibbs, ’25, and William McIntosh, ex-'26 are attending the Columbia Theological Seminary at
Columbia, S.C. Three members of the class of ’25 are now teaching at the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn. These
are Chalmers McIlwaine, Ralph (Sook) Boggs. Ed Singletarry is teaching at the Blue Ridge School at Hendersonville, N. C. ’24—Paul
Price is teaching school in Florida. ’25—Jim Milhouse and Bub Oeland are learning the banking business in New York City.
’25—John Baker is going into business with his father at Jacksonville, Fla. ’25—Clayton Furches of Statesville is a frequent visitor
on the hill. Elias Faison, ’24, left the hill Monday, after a visit of several days, for Emory, where he
is to study medicine.

LATEST MOVIE ATTRACTIONS SCHEDULED FOR DAVIDSON

The movies this year, under the able direction of Joe Garrison, will attempt to give to the students and town
people of Davidson the biggest and best attractions that are being shown on the American screen today. Already some of
the big hits of the year are booked for an early showing in the gym. Manager Garrison also wishes to
announce new uniforms. This addition makes the

Davidson Students Lead in Activities at Camp

Wildcat Cadets Take Two-First Places in Athletic Events at Camp

As this year's R. O. T. C. summer camp drew to a close, the officers and men alike realized more
and more that this was one of the most successful camps in the history of the R. O. T. C.,
and they now plan for camp next summer, hoping to make that one even better than the one this year.
From a standpoint of accomplishment, the camp is way ahead of all preceding camps. This can be expected, for the
boys have all worked diligently and with a willing spirit, and have done more work than previous camps have been
required to do. Davidson College can well feel proud of the work done by her group at camp, for they
have striven while in camp as they do on the athletic fields for the honor of old Davidson, and Davidson
honor has not been allowed to drag in the dust by her representatives.

The Davidson trainees gathered at the Alabama hotel for a banquet and get-together, before breaking up for the summer. The
honor guests of the evening were: Captain “Daddy” Weems, the best officer that has ever been stationed at Davidson, Captain
John Elkins, who is detailed to Davidson for next year, Lieut. Beckett, another of Davidson's new officers, and Rev. Mr.
Hodges, an old Davidson man who is pastor of the Presbyterian Church in Anniston. T. S. Baker acted as toastmaster,
and several good talks were made by various of the trainees. All agreed that they have a different idea of
army life now, and that they shall bend every effort to get the best men in the Davidson student body
to realize that Davidson ideals and spirit are spread throughout the south as a result of these camps.

On the rifle range Davidson showed up very well indeed, winning second place among the colleges in rifle marksmanship, being
topped only by the University of Florida. Of the highest scorers trying out for the Camp Perry rifle team, Davidson
had four contestants, and one man, W. A. Alexander, qualified for the team. Purcell was high score man from Davidson.
In athletics, the boys were especially active in wrestling and boxing, tying with three other schools for second place in
winning every match in wrestling. Baker, boxing his first time against Camp, of Florida, got a draw, and lost to
Wilson of Florida in the next elimination bouts, after an extra round for the judges to decide on. Hand also
lost a close bout to Filastre of Louisiana State University. Both men fought in the 149-pound class. In the 118-pound
class McDaniel won from J. C. Frierson, winning the bantam title in that bout. Davidson made an outstanding record in
wrestling, winning every match offered. In the 118-pound class Frierson of Davidson also won, throwing Nesmith of since in the
course of the week the Junior weight wrestled was the 149-pound.To the students that from now on cress: a five-
| i 5 rar ll ne ; | won on time from Camp of Florida with | increased efficiency is
expected. Piece orchestra, under the direction of Tom Barr, will furnish music during the show, and it is hoped that
with this added attraction the student body will continue to give their wholehearted support to the movies and | and
later won from Davis in the final, | tain Elkin and Lieutenant Beckett ref- the “yy | | of Davidson
won from McCutcheon, also In the 127-pound class | the Citadel in seven minutes. The only In the first preliminaries
Davis three minutes time advantage. Thomas icf N. C. State lost to Filastre of L. U. Alexander won from Filastre
in a fall, | for the championship in that weight. Thomas Meighan appears here on October | 3 in “The
Man Who Found Himself,” his | newest picture, and from all news reports Promises to be one of the season’s
best pictures. It is especially written by Booth Tarkington for Tom Meighan. Virginia Valli plays opposite him. Following this, on
October 10, will be seen “Quo Vadis;” “The Sea Hawk” on the 17th; “Slaves of Fashion” on the 24th, and
“He’s a Prince” on the 31st. The month of November will bring “Sun Up,” on the 7th; Richard Barthlemess in
“Classmates” on the 14th; “Beggar on Horseback,” a James Cruse Production and world’s best comedy will show on the 21st;
“Wounds of Chance” on the 28th will wind up the month. Two convicts managed to get into a conversation one
day. “Hello, mate, how did you manage to get here?” “Just unlucky. Number thirteen got me. Twelve jurors and a
judge.”

C. E. TRAINING CLASS

The Christian Endeavor Training Class on Sunday at the regular hour of 1:45 held one of its most interesting meetings.
The speakers for the day were M. A. Steele and W. E. Hill. Posing as the organizers of a Christian
Endeavor Society, they spoke to the audience just as to a group of young people that they were to mold
into an active society. Steele explained the purpose of the society in such a way that the aims of the
society would have been perfectly clear to anyone. Hill’s talk on the organization of a Christian Endeavor Society was also
well developed. After the conclusion of these talks came criticisms and points were argued and settled. This general discussion is
one of the features of the class program. Its purpose is to learn about Christian Endeavor work, and furnish opportunity
for any member to state his views.

CLOTHES — HATS — HABERDASHERY — SHOES At HENDERSON’S October 2 and 3 BILL HOLLENBECK, Rep. [FINCHTILIEY Fifth Avenue at
46th Street NEW YORK

Slavedriver Puts Fresh Laborers Through Tasks

Taskmaster Kuykendall Allows No Lagging—Craves Personal Valet Service

Slavedriver Jamie Kuykendall announces that he has purchased a brand new rhinoceros-hide persuader and has had the whipping post repaired
since last week and intends to put the Freshmen through their paces when he gets control of them for the
afternoons during this week. Most of their time will be devoted to erecting the remainder of the bleachers, clearing the
entire field of sticks, stones, and weeds, and weeding the terrace around the field outside the fence. Also in their
spare time there’s a lumber pile to be straightened up, grass to be cut at various places and Jamie says
if that isn’t enough to keep them interested he will have his shoes shined every ten minutes and his rugs
cleaned and room overhauled twice a day. Slavedriver also stated that he had been working entirely too hard lately and
so, starting at once, he will detail about four Fresh to attend his person and see that his slightest desire
is fulfilled immediately. Two Freshmen will act as chauffeurs for his new high-powered wheelbarrow which will carry him from place
to place in overseeing the work, another will carry ice-water and a large palm-leaf fan, the fourth will act as
errand-boy, interpreter, and mechanic for Jamie’s convenience. With his improved methods in effect Jamie looks forward to big results in
the near future.

NEW UNIFORMS ARRIVE FOR ADVANCED COURSE STUDENTS

The R. O. T. C. Department is now more highly decorated than last week. Seniors have blossomed out in their
shining battalion one of perfect unity now and Captain Weems has just returned from Fort Bragg where he played on
the camp polo team. In this same line Captain Elkin and Lieutenant Beckett refereed the game over there and Captain
Elkin was one of the participants. The entire effort of those in command of the battalion this year will be
to secure the distinguished rating, an honor highly coveted by the military schools of the country. The prospects are bright
for a year of greater proficiency than last year, and if these prospects are fulfilled the battalion will catch the
eye of more than one reviewing officer. The band has already started practicing and from the sounds coming forth they
are already in mid-season form. New music is arriving daily and Captain Elkin promises a real band this year.

OH EDISON, MY EDISON!

“Mazda, darling, be mine, incandescent one! Watts life with you? Ohm is not ohm without the light of your presence.
My heart is a transformer that steps up at every thought of you. I would lay my head alongside your
switch; the touch of your hand is like a live wire. Marry me and let us have a little meter
in our home.”

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS VICTROLAS RECORDS AND ROLLS Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments SHEET MUSIC OLDEST IN THE STATE ANDREW
MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St.

WE ARE STILL GLAD TO BE OF SERVICE TO YOU LEST YOU FORGET

If you need a suit, either one or two-trouser suit, let us show you before you make a decision. Sport
Sweaters, Golf Stockings, Golf Knickers, extra trousers.

BELK BROTHERS CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY HOUSE, SEE WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO. MOORESVILLE, N. C.
