8 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

Students Remaining Here Will Room in Louisiana

Louisiana Dormitory Will be Turned Over to Use of Students

In recent years, owing to the vastly increased facilities (free and otherwise) for traveling great distances in a short time,
the number of men remaining in the temporarily inactive “Bull Pens” of the college dormitories will be materially reduced from
that of former years. Monday, only four or five men had signified their intention of remaining on the hill for
the holidays. These are men whose homes are at such a length from Davidson that it would be altogether impracticable
to try to make the trip home in the relatively short holiday period which we have this year.

The college authorities are planning to quarter the few men staying here in Louisiana. Heretofore it has been the custom
for the men to room in Watts, but this year the few on the Hill (none of whom will be
here all the time) makes it seem feasible to do away with the forty dollars per day expense of operating
the central heating plant. As in former years, those remaining in Davidson for the holidays may be assured of an
enjoyable and merry Christmas.

NEW SHRUBBERY BEING PLANTED ON CAMPUS

Dr. Martin has recently purchased several hundred dollars worth of flowers and shrubbery for the beautification of the campus. These
plants came from one of the best nurseries in the state and should soon develop into very beautiful plants. The
president and members of the faculty have long felt the great need for such as this and are proud to
have accomplished their aim.

The shrubbery is of many different varieties, and when all is in full bloom will present a gorgeous mixture of
brilliant colors. The plants have been carefully set out by the laborers of the college, and the work supervised by
the college engineer. Almost all of the shrubbery has been planted around the new Chambers building, and as soon as
a stand of grass is procured, it will show up as one of the prettiest buildings in the state. The
shrubbery completely surrounds the building, occupying some three or four feet immediately adjacent to the building. It is earnestly hoped
that the students will co-operate in every way to give the shrubbery a fair chance to develop.

SCHOLARLY ARTICLE BY LOCAL PROFESSOR

(Continued from page 1)

divided into three classes. Those of the first class, which is by far the largest, uniformly employ in all these
words the sound called standard. Members of the second class, which is the smallest, with equal regularity substitute dialectic ou
for standard ou in the words given. The third, and from the standpoint of typical eastern Virginia speech, the most
interesting class includes those who pronounce about, house, and out with dialectic ou, and crowd, how, loud, with standard ou.
This seeming inconsistency invites study. Careful and prolonged observation, and the application of tests to a number of eastern Virginians
have proved that members of class three unconsciously obey the following law: diphthongal ou is given the dialectic sound represented
by (pu) when the diphthong is immediately followed in the same syllable by the sound of a voiceless consonant; but
under all other conditions standard ou (au) is employed. Examples of words in which dialectic ou is heard are about,
doubt, trout; examples of words in which standard ou is heard are bough, how, foul, loud. Tests indicate that the
large majority of eastern Virginians belong to class three, but there are members of class two on the Virginia peninsula,
notably in James City county and elsewhere in the state.

The second of the two distinctive sounds in the speech of eastern Virginians is that of i in such words
as bright, like, and price. In typical eastern Virginia speech diphthonged i is given the dialectic sound represented by (pi)
under two conditions: (1) when the diphthong is immediately followed in the same syllable by the sound of a voiceless
consonant; and (2) when the diphthong occurs at the end of a syllable which is immediately followed in the same
word by an unaccented syllable beginning with the sound of a voiceless consonant and containing an obscurely pronounced vowel. Under
all other conditions standard i is employed. Examples of words pronounced in dialectic i are: advice, ice, wife, cipher, rifle,
vital; examples of words pronounced with standard i are: bright, like, price, time, and fire.

Queries and Answers on New World Court

Reservations to Protocol Are Five in Number—“Harmony Peace Plan” Discussed

Q. What are the “Harding-Hughes-Coolidge” reservations?
A. The reservations, five in number, stipulate in brief:
1. That entry into the Court will not involve any legal relation with the League of Nations.
2. That the United States will be allowed to participate in electing the judges.
3. That the United States will pay its share of the expenses.
4. That the statute of the Court cannot be amended without our consent.
5. That the United States shall be in no manner bound by any opinion of the Court.

Q. Why are these reservations made?
A. The strongest objection to the World Court is that it is a League Court, created, fostered, and controlled by
the League. Since the United States is not a member of the League and is not desirous of entering into
any entangling relation with that body, the reservations were made to ensure our independence of the League of Nations and
to give us a reasonable control over the conduct and destiny of the Court.

Q. Why is Borah opposed to the Court?
A. His main reasons are:
1. The Court is a “legal department of the League” because of its power to render advisory opinions.
2. Lack of compulsory jurisdiction over

ARTCRAFT THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.
Dec. 21 to 26, inclusive
Western Features By Fred Thomson, Hoot Gibson, and Tom Mix
“Pony Express” Paramount feature on 25th
Comedies each day
MERRY CHRISTMAS TO ALL

RENTERS
Masquerades, Costumes, Tuxedos, Full Dress, Decorations and Party Favors
Southern Awning & Decorating Co.
515 E. Trade

FIREWORKS
We have a full shipment of firecrackers, roman cannons, etc.
STOP BY AND GET YOURS AT
W. A. Frye & Son Filling Station
Statesville Road just out of Charlotte

HOLIDAY GREETINGS
Send for one of our Greeting Card Assortments
12 or 15 Cards for $1.00
12 or 15 Cards for 50c.
Printing and Engraving
COMMERCIAL
419 East Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.important disputes on the part of the Court.
3. There is no law for the Court to apply. International law must be codified first before a court can
function.
4. No court can be effective in its operation if war is not immediately outlawed.

Q. Under what conditions would Borah favor entrance into the Court?
A. His conditions are four:
1. International law must first be codified.
2. Power to render advisory opinions must be taken away from the Court.
3. War must be outlawed.
4. Compulsory jurisdiction must be extended.

Q. What is the “Harmony Peace Plan”? What is its purpose? Who is responsible for it?
A. The “Harmony Peace Plan” favors immediate entrance into the Court under the “Harding-Hughes-Coolidge” reservations, the United States to withdraw
from the Court within five years if the signatory powers do not unite in outlawing war, writing an international code,
and extending the compulsory jurisdiction of the Court. Its purpose is to effect a compromise between the Borah forces and
those in favor of the Court. It was formulated recently by thirty prominent leaders of thought in this country and
endorsed by them.

LITERARY SOCIETIES

Metrophilian
At the regular meeting of the Metro Society, Thursday, December 10th, the debate was dispensed with on account of the
large amount of regular business to be taken up. It is the plan of the society to conduct the next
meeting as a parliamentary drill for the benefit of the new men. This plan is an innovation in the Metro
Society, and it is hoped that it will prove very beneficial.

Philanthropic
The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held last Thursday night with a good attendance. President Barrington was
in the chair. The first number on the program was a debate on the subject, Resolved: That the Hale System
of electing representatives be adopted for all legislative bodies. The debaters were J. H. Meadows and H. H. Worzel for
the affirmative, and J. B. Moriarty and L. Wadsworth for the negative. A decision was reached in favor of the
negative. Messrs. Abernathy, Morrison, and Glenn acted as the decision committee.

The two peculiarities discussed are characteristic of eastern Virginia speech and that of a few other sections of the country.
The dialectic sounds are clearly due to the specific phonetic conditions pointed out above. G. F. Houck then gave a
selection entitled “The Fust Banjo” which was very well rendered. C. H. DuBose followed with a reading, taken from an
old edition of the Davidsonian on “Christmas in This and Other Lands.” The business session was then held, after which
the society adjourned.

BANQUET COMMENTS
By Ernest Milton

The occasion at Gastonia Saturday night was one which brought Gastonia and Davidson still closer together. In fact, we do
not believe that it would be amiss to say that the alumni of Gastonia and Davidson are closer together than
the alumni of Charlotte, even though the latter are at the very doors of Davidson. We suggest an organization of
the alumni in some of the other towns nearby. They can do immeasurable good, and get a great deal of
pleasure out of it at the same time.

Many good impromptu speeches were given Saturday night, but perhaps the one which struck a most vibrant chord were the
few remarks made by Tom Baker. “You may have offers to go to other schools,” said this Wildcat in talking
directly to the Gastonia High School students, “but we have something to offer you at Davidson that money can't buy,
and if you should accept one of these offers you will, in so doing, make one of the biggest mistakes
of your life, assuming that you want to come to Davidson.”

Coach Monk Younger said that we had a better season than we had anticipated, and in analyzing the cause he
remarked, “We owe it to the student body spirit and to the fact that Captain Black and 45 real Americans
gave Tex and me everything they had.”

Mr. Johnson, of Barium Springs, gave a rather witty discourse, and averred that football had been likened to war. To
which Tom Baker later replied that this was not true, since Sherman had once given a definition of war that
could not be applied to football.

The principal of the Gastonia High School lauded Davidson for its spirit (He is a Carolina man) and took this
occasion to thank the institution for the teachers Davidson had given Gastonia, since four of the staff were graduates of
Davidson.

Dr. McConnell remarked that even out in Oregon recently two men were discussing the merits of Davidson, and that perhaps
the reputation of the school was by now international. “We don’t want to buy players, and we are not going
to, but we do want you to come to one of the best colleges in the South,” were the remarks
he directed to the Gastonia High School graduates.

One of the speeches jammed full of humor was that delivered by Dr. Glenn. “When I see such boys come
from Davidson like Pat Crawford and a few others around here, I see that they have made good characters out
of questionable boys, and it must be a good school.” (Dr. Glenn never attended Davidson, but he is one of
its most loyal supporters).

Furthermore, it was stated that one of the Gastonia players made the remark one day that of the schools he
had visited he liked Davidson better than any others because they made you feel at home while on their campus.

Men in Professions
Methods scientifically approved and hygienic processes of dry cleaning combine to meet your expectations when refreshed by MAYHEWS. It is
worth your patronage regularly, for well-being and comfort are necessary to your best effort.

We thank you for your kind patronage during the year 1925.

MAYHEWS
Master Cleaner and Dyer
Phone 240
OFFICE AND PLANT
Main Street, Mooresville and Davidson, N. C.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat
CHARLOTTE - - - N. C.

When in Mooresville visit Mack & Ikall for your High Grade Candy, Cigarettes, and Fruit
Next to Postal Telegraph

YOUR APPEARANCE
Is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times.
LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.
P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

SERVICE
The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.
