THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1925

H. M. Johnston
Staple and Fancy Groceries
QUICK DELIVERY
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S

The height of stinginess is when a man with a thousand dollars and no heir goes into a shop to buy a pistol with which to commit suicide and then haggles over the price.

After Every Meal

It’s the longest-lasting confection you can buy—and it’s a help to digestion and a cleanser for the mouth and teeth. Wrigley’s means benefit as well as pleasure.

They say that Christenberry is a deacon in the Stoney Point Presbyterian Church and that once he broke his arm and they let him take up the collection.

A Fresh in Claytor’s platoon thought a girl was complimenting his ability as a drill master when she said he had a good line.

In its Purity Package

“Look, papa, Abie’s cold is cured and we still got left a box of cough drops.”
“Oy, vot extravagance. Tell Moses to go out and get his feet wet.”

“Rosy” McMillan—"I love Keats.”
Prof—“What a pleasure to meet a college man who loves children.”

Bart Hall—"Do you like candy?”
Girl—"Oh, yes.”
Bart—"Thanks for Whitman’s.”

When in Charlotte take your meals at the SG&W Cafeteria

I'm gathering statistics
Fresh—"Whatcha got?”
Soph—"Four aces.”
Fresh—"What’s your other card?”

Wood Brown—"Yes, I'm an actor—I played in ‘Paul Revere’s Ride.’”
Girl—"Why, I didn’t see you.”
Wood—"Oh, I was the front legs of the horse.”

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Joe Ernest's latest song-hit—"She's a Hot Mama so I call her my ‘Fire Belle.’”

In onion there is strength.
Sellars—"Turn on the water in the showers, quick!”
Kornegay—"Why?”
Sellars—"Goat has the hiccoughs and I want to scare him.”

The only difference between a girl chewing gum and a cow chewing her cud is that the cow looks thoughtful.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um!
Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.
Phonograph Records 50c each

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Exchanges

CARD TO BE HANDED TO PROSPECTIVE CHAPEL SPEAKERS
We are aware:
1. That it thrills you to look upon our eager young faces,
2. That you did not have such a nice chapel when you went to school,
3. That we are the leaders of the next generation,
4. That there were once two Irishmen, Pat and Mike.

Sid Jones—"They say I'm the best dancer in the country.”
She—"You probably are—in the country.”

Our idea of the meanest man on earth is the warden who put a carpet tack in the electric chair.

Any Stude (after last week-end)—"How do you feel?”
Any other Stude—"How’s that?”
“Oh, a little weak.”
“Like seven days.”

The Columbia Spectator

Mother—"Did that man kiss you?”
Daughter—"You don't think he drove 40 miles to hear me sing, do you?”

The University of Minnesota has a faculty of 1,250 members. This is the largest faculty in any American College.

Believe It or Not

Last Monday at the evening meal at the Country Club, Fresh Westbrook from Wilmington argued for a half hour with a Senior that the Freshmen are all allowed to attend the Sophomore banquet. Personally, we think that deserves two weeks on bread and water.

The Davidsonian is one of the best papers in the South. Its makeup, printing, and quality of news is commendable.

The Mississippian

On the old sea wall she held my hand,
I let my soul-felt pleading flow,
I coaxed, begged, swore—and yet
That doggone crab would not let go.

Women students in the college of Law at the University of Iowa had higher averages for the second semester of the last school year than did the men, according to figures recently announced.Hornet,

* * *

Frank Hudson—"I don’t know what to do with my weekend."
"Collar-ad" Cousar—"Put your hat on it."

The recent anniversary of Lee's Birthday was elaborately celebrated by the students and alumni of Washington and Lee. Alumni associations throughout the country held banquets on the occasion.—The Yellow Jacket.

* * *

A girl's “No” often means “Yes,” but her “Yes” never means “No.”

Fresh—"Give me two seats in ‘L.’”
Ticket Seller—"Hey, this ain't Hades.”

Professor Warner Fite, of Princeton, has offered a prize to the student who can devise a cross-word puzzle capable of two separate solutions. He claims that such a problem would be of great psychological value—The Yellow Jacket.

* * *

Some of the factors determining a girl's popularity: A comfortable parlor, the lighting effect, etc. How hard father is. A first-class divan.

Harry R. Wellman, writing in the Dartmouth Alumni magazine, attempted a classification of college men's thoughts. He says college men think about themselves, women, activities, studies, religion, movies, and liquor in the order named.—Emory Wheel.

Last, but not least, no fences to jump if we have to run.

Yes, Davidson has succumbed! This goes to prove that even a college paper such as The Davidsonian can long resist the temptation of publishing cross-word puzzles.—The Salemite.

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

“There was a man to see you here today, Papa,” said little Ethel, on meeting her father in the hall.
“Did he have a bill?”
“No, Papa, he just had a plain nose.”

Our idea of the most contemptible man in town is the barber who puts hair restorer in his shaving cream.

You don’t have to have much pull with the women to drag ‘em to a football game.

Fresh—"Was Anno Domini an alumnus? I see he built all the dorms around here.”

I WONDER
She acts so sweet and coy to me,
But there is one thing I can't see;
I wonder if my heart she's seeking,
Or just a bid to Junior Speaking?

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

P. K. WRIGLEY PRESIDENT OF CHEWING-GUM COMPANY

P. K. Wrigley has been elected president of the Wm. Wrigley, Jr., Co., the $90,000,000 Chewing Gum Corporation. P. K. is just past thirty and one of the youngest presidents of a large manufacturing concern in the United States. He started his business career by putting Wrigley’s on the map in Australia and has been vice-president of the American company since 1915, except for two years in the United States Naval Aviation Service during the war. His father, Wm. Wrigley, Jr., now becomes chairman of the Board of Directors.

Traymore Clothes
Wednesday and Thursday

For six years Traymore has been backing the Davidson teams and student body with the finest service available. The following schedules for 1925 are presented in a convenient form with our compliments. Paste on your walls:

Traymore Clothes

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE
Davidson 39, Concord 19.
Davidson Charlotte Y 21.
Davidson Duke 25.
Davidson Duke 22.
Davidson Carolina 44.
Davidson Elon 19.
Davidson Concord Y 14.
Davidson Duke 18.
Davidson Durham Elks 49.
Davidson Wake Forest 48.
Davidson Durham Elks 23.

Feb. 10—Charlotte Y at Charlotte.
Feb. 17—Georgia Tech at Charlotte.
Feb. 18—Guilford at Guilford.
Feb. 19—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
Feb. 20—Open.
Feb. 21—W. & L. at Lexington.
Feb. 23—Hampden-Sidney at H.-S.
Feb. 24—Roanoke at Roanoke.
Feb. 26—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Feb. 27—Guilford at Guilford.
Feb. 28—Wake Forest at Davidson.

Win Distinction

BASEBALL SCHEDULE
Mar. 27—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
Mar. 28—Oak Ridge at Davidson.
Apr. 1—State at Davidson.
Apr. 3—Elon at Davidson.
Apr. 5—State at Raleigh.
Apr. 10—Wake Forest at W. F.
Apr. 13—Carolina at Gastonia.
Apr. 15—Open.
Apr. 16—Duke at Greensboro.
Apr. 21—Open.
Apr. 23—Guilford at Davidson.
Apr. 29—Guilford at Guilford.
Apr. 30—Roanoke at Salem, Va.
May 1—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
May 2—V. M. I. at Lexington.
May 4—W. & L. at Lexington.
May 6—Wake Forest at Davidson.
May 9—Duke at Gastonia.

At Any Game

FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 19—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 25—Wofford at Rock Hill.
Oct. 3—Wake Forest at Charlotte.
Oct. 10—Guilford at Davidson.
Oct. 17—Presbyterian at (Pending)
Oct. 24—Furman at Charlotte.
Oct. 31—State at Pinehurst.
Nov. 7—Hampden-Sidney at Davidson.
Nov. 14—Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Nov. 28—Duke at Davidson.

Credit or Cash
No Deposit Required

On display in the lobby of Georgia Dormitory on Feb. 18-19
Wednesday and Thursday
Traymore Tailors Inc.
Don Wharton, College Rep.