4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH --- Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE --- Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH --- Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON --- Assistant Managing Editor
B. G. R. ON --- Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON --- Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER --- Associate Editor
A. N. S. Q. LOY --- Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH --- Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN --- Humorous Editor

H. D. BURKE --- Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH --- Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. --- Circulation Manager
E. D. --- Subscription Manager
J. M. --- Subscription Manager
C. W. --- Solicitor
V. S. --- Solicitor
E. L. --- Assistant

SERVICE DEPARTMENT
Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
F. HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
MARTIN C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
T. K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
W. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL POWER SUPREME

On the campus of Davidson College, there is a place of learning, a sanctuary, where souls with a desire for
learning can quench their burning thirst for knowledge and the power that comes with it. We refer to the library.
In its confines is the summed-up knowledge of mankind since the birth of history. To this collection of books and
pamphlets, that seem meaningless and dry enough to many of us, the foremost intellects of the world have contributed. From
the philosophies of Confucius and Tao, dim relics of the forgotten past, to the most modern treatises of the modern
age, there is a wider range of assembled information and condensed power than Aristotle or Plato ever dreamed of. In
the pages of these books are the foundations of a liberal education; in them is power and fame.

But the tragedy of it all is the disregard that the college student has for it all. Acting on the
urgent advice of his professor, he saunters in for an all-too-long combat with some treatise on the Shakespearian drama or
the mystic philosophy of the ancient Hebrews. After a trying period in which he jots down a few desultory notes,
he yawns, slaps the book shut, and saunters out. The reading room is always well filled with boys trying to
read the latest football dope in the Observer or some choice gossip from the old home town. Too, the best
sellers in the library are always taken, so much so that they are restricted to a seven-day loan. But this
is a superficial skimming of the deep lore that lies beneath. How many volumes of Shakespeare have been taken out
of the library during the past five years, except on special English assignments? How many times have the new Oxford
Dictionaries been used? Within the pages of these books lie beauties that are comparable to the lovely sheen of the
rainbow that spans the eastern sky. Master minds have written of subtle emotions and of love and life. Bards and
poets have untangled the skein of human life to show the undercurrent of life that flows beneath. Whole lives have
been lived to produce a single gem of poetry. A life has been spent in poverty and want to produce
a single theory that remains unread and undeveloped due to this hurried life of ours.

Is it worthwhile to read these old masters? Are the grand and mighty lines of Milton, moving majestically through a
melody of their own, worth a few hours' study? Do the plays of Shakespeare, that are inextricably enmeshed with the
highest and lowest of human emotions, worth the time that we spend with them? What of the transcendent verses of
Omar Khayyam, majestic in their appeal? Does the languorous music of Shelley’s love lyric, “In dreams I arise from thee,
in the first sweet sleep of night,” arouse a like passion in your breast? There is for each of us
a few hours in which we do not have an allotted task; a time which could be used in no
more advantageous way than by treading one’s way through the valley of roses that lies in the classics. The time
will come all too soon when we will decry our lack of familiarity with the literature of the world. By
that time we will have forgotten football scores and athletic statistics as to the relative merits of teams. But what
of the real knowledge that we are supposed to be getting now?

DAVIDSON BOYS

We chanced to hear a remark made by a fellow who attended the R. O. T. C. camp at Anniston,
Ala., this summer. He was from the University of Tennessee, and in his company were a number of Davidson students
who were taking advanced military work. He said that he had never met a better bunch of fellows, and that
Davidson boys were known to have a reputation for gentlemanly conduct at all times. He commented on the fact that
the whole group from this school seemed to have all the attributes of gentlemen.

That is a tribute within itself, to the standard of Davidson scholarship and citizenship. Just as a man said last
winter when giving the boys a lift to Charlotte in his car. He remarked, “I never hesitate to pick up
a boy from Davidson because I know what sort of fellow he is.” With the world holding this opinion of
Davidson students, it behooves each of us to measure up to it at all times. When on the campus or
away, we can so conduct ourselves that no reflection will be cast upon our school, our homes, or upon our
own selves.

WATCH YOUR STEP

From now on, many upperclassmen will be confronted with the desire to get in some of the various organizations and
honorary fraternities on the hill. The clubs themselves are already considering whom they will bid for their membership. Those who
are members of a number of these organizations will tell you that there is more harm in trying to do
too much than nothing at all. A man cannot, with his school work, give his just attention to a number
of these organizations at one and the same time. One or the other will suffer. In the end, he will
get very little out of it. Of course, there is an honor in belonging to a number of organizations. But
sometimes the honor is a mighty hollow one. And they don’t count much in after life. If necessary to choose
between your studies and an organization, choose the first. They are the tickets that will admit you to the big
games in after life. Make your decision and stick to it. You can’t follow two or three courses at one
and the same time. Watch your step.

Minor Chords

GOLDENROD

Gold-capped fronds from stems of emerald hue
That with the lazy breezes nod,
Upright they hold their spires unto the blue,
The lovely gift of Autumn—goldenrod.

Along the grass-grown lane, with sumac red,
From meadows where the asters play,
This vagrant flower rears its stately head
To lend a cheery color to the way.

The singing bee hums low and wings afar
To sip the honeyed nectar there
Beneath the spangled, golden jar,
That renders sweet the dewy air.

When star-lit dusk steals through the whispering trees
And with her wand touch leaf and clod,
Still stands that sentinel to the breeze,
That daughter of the stars—shy goldenrod.

Frederick Smith.

The graduates of last year reappearing on the campus at intervals give an air of staid dignity to the place.
The students are glad at all times to see them, and hope that they will have the best of luck
in their chosen road through life. It promises to be a busy fall. Glee Club practices, football, concerts, lectures, with
studying on the side, ought to keep anyone busy. The Glee Club is planning another trip through Dixie where they
break all feminine hearts they encounter.

Open Forum
Through the Key HolePICTURES

The bell is ringing at Davidson. Across the campus, boys are hurrying toward the church; inside the dormitories, pajamaed forms
wrestling with their clothes, mutter to their roommates. After a few minutes, streams of boys pour from the various buildings,
all headed for the church at the corner of the campus. Inside the church, the service is beginning. A few
of those who are late are climbing over their companions to their allotted seats, while monitors check and recheck the
students. A shepherd counting his sheep after a storm, a prison guard with a pencil instead of a gun. The
half-hearted singing, the long prayers, the various collections have passed. The preacher is in the midst of his discourse. Students
on the front seats writhing in half-futile attempts to keep awake, others further back peacefully sleeping. On the back seats,
newspapers rustle, books hidden behind the backs of seats and magazines of more or less disrepute provide entertainment for the
more energetic. The preacher closes his Bible; a long, suppressed sigh, almost a wail of relief, can be felt in
the rear. Boys move nearer and nearer the door during the benediction, scrambling out as it is finished. Not a
word about the structure of the sermon; instead, here and there someone says, “Well, that’s over till next Sunday.” Such
is church at Davidson.

The bells are ringing at Chapel Hill. Across the campus, boys strolling toward the various churches, many quietly and orderly
entering the beautiful Presbyterian Church, famous as a type of colonial architecture. Inside, they take any seat that is vacant,
and the service reverently begins. Seekers for the truth in religion, worshippers by a willful decision rather than by forced
attendance, such comprise the youthful audience. No monitors checking and re-checking the attendance; no newspapers rustling in the rear; no
sleepers in the hour of holy worship; no muttering among the students. A gentlemanly departure after hearty greetings from faculty
and townspeople. Such is church at Chapel Hill.

The time has come to face the facts; this is the twentieth century; this is an age of thought and
inquiry from the youth. After ninety years of compulsory church attendance at Davidson, the church here is losing its grip
upon the youth. It is defeating the very ends for which it was established. Instead of leading the youth into
paths of Christian service, it is driving heretofore consecrated Christians away from the Presbyterian Church. Talk confidentially with the boys
at Davidson; listen to men who came to the school from homes where they had gone to church regularly—perhaps Sunday
School and Christian Endeavor also. Then hear of their changed attitude, how today they are farther from the fold than
then. Such is the result of compulsory church attendance. These are facts, facts that can easily be verified.

At Carolina, we use it only as a striking example of the opposite course. The Presbyterian Church is gaining instead
of losing the attention of the youth. More students voluntarily attend the regular services at the Chapel Hill church than
there are Presbyterians enrolled in the University. They go of their own will; they gain something of great value; they
leave with a sense of gratitude. Such is a result of voluntary attendance.

We are not fighting Davidson. We are loyal to the school. We would rather go here—in spite of several antiquated
practices—than to Carolina or any other school in the south. But nevertheless, we can see the advantages of change. We
do not propose a student revolution. We do not want the change because we are tired of religion. We do
not wish to become atheists. But for the upbuilding of our own religious lives, for the maintenance of real Christianity
at Davidson, we call the students’ attention to this matter. Then may we in a calm and gentlemanly manner ask
the men in authority to consider the claims of the student body.

STYGIAN I.

Almost everyone seemed to lose interest in the game Saturday after Nick Sappenfield was injured. The plucky little quarterback was
tumbled over by two or three men larger than he, but he gave them a run for their money at
any rate. The student body hopes for his early appearance on the campus.

The ole wildcat still languishes in a cage much too small. Surely the mascot and pride of the Fighting Wildcats
deserves a nobler place than an overgrown goods-box for a lair.

A little jaunt down to the Exposition in Charlotte this week will be an education to many. It will be
worth your while to see the visible results of the great progress of the Carolinas during the few years since
the war between the states. You certainly will get your four bits worth.

APPLEKNOCKERS

Many deep students of up-to-date slanguage have asked for a definition of the word well known within the realms of
Davidsonianese. We hereby submit the following for your approval: A Poor, Little Egg Knowing Nothing Other Cept Knocking Every Rumor.
Well, a roomer in the house, or a rumor in the house, makes no difference. They both cause a lot
of trouble sometimes.

COME HOME TO PAPA (Advertisement in Nashville Banner)

LOST A WIFE—Gay, pretty, blonde and twenty. Mislaid by mistake; she either strayed or was stolen. Reward if returned and
no questions asked.

Diamond Dick McCarty, the two-gun man from the desert wastes of Georgia, was applying for a job this past summer.
He went into a garage and asked the boss for a place. “Are you a mechanic?” queried the greasy garage
owner. “Nope,” said Diamond, “my name happens to be McCarty.”

ELASTICALLY SPEAKING

“I'll be durned if I stretch myself around these joints any more, and I’m sick of this hold-up game,” said
the garter as it slid to the floor.

Davidson is proud of the honesty of her students. Just for instance, Rosie McMillan was in charge of a bathhouse
all last summer and never took a bath.

NECK AND NECK

Theophilus McQueen had a sporty machine
And he courted co-eds fair.
He whizzed along with a rapid song,
And Sta-comb plastered hair.
He tried to kiss a flightsome miss,
And did he quit? By heck,
She slapped McQueen for a row of beans,
He got it in the neck.
But not afraid of man nor maid,
He tried a different tack,
He dated too, the whole night through
And on the janes spent jack.
On a moonlight night, with hip-flask tight,
Came Sally at his beck.
Did he have any fun, this son of a gun?
He got it in the neck. (Yes).

QUICK, WATSON, THE NEEDLE

Speight Adams gained quite a reputation as an amateur detective this past summer. He took a correspondence school in plain
and fancy detecting and was all ready for business. His biggest job during the summer was the unearthing of a
big plot among the Ethiopian element. He saw a negro woman coming down the street with two babies in her
arms. When asked their names, she said, “Boss dey names is Jack and Jimmy.” So he arrested her. When brought
before the judge, that worthy gentleman asked upon what charge was the negress and her two ebony offspring arrested. “Well
yerroner, it’s like this,” said the high detective. “They told me to arrest all persons carrying weapons and so I
arrested this woman for carrying a black jack and a jimmy.”

A lot college boys care about keeping that schoolgirl complexion. They brush it off their coats after every date.

BACCHUS AT HIS BEST

Roland Parker, radical thinker and doer of the Senior class, has at last come into his own. Not only has
he renounced the ways of men but he has invoked the aid of the Muses in showing to him the
correct cut in fall fashions for cavemen. On the recent jaunt of the “Y” Cabinet into the primeval forest, Sir
Roland harked back unto the days of his simian ancestors and divested himself of all the raiment that befits a
man. Before the startled gazes of his companions, he gambolled across the green, a la puris naturalibus and headed for
the shade of the fig trees. Here he garbed himself after the manner of mother Eve and gambolled some more.
He was awakened from his reverie only by a harsh dash of nectar drawn from an adjacent spring. He explains
his conduct only as an outburst of his ebullient spirits and says that since thinking it over, he believes that
the fig leaf overcoat will be entirely too chilly for bleak December.
