THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

JUNIORS PLAN FOR LYCEUM OFFERINGS
(Continued from page 1)

The members of the Junior committee will have the tickets on sale until the first performance.

SORE MUSCLES
Vacations are often spoiled by soreness resulting from outdoor games. A good massage with Vicks often gives surprising relief.
VICKS
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

Healthful exercise for the teeth as well as a spur to digestion. A long-lasting refreshment, soothing to nerves and stomach.
The Great American Sweetmeat.

FELLOWS!!!
We have several new U-Push’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

Dedication
In appreciation of their never-failing ability to pull such awful bones that they keep all members of the upper classes
in a perpetual state of hilarity, their greenness, the equal of which is not to be found on any campus
anywhere, and their general contribution to the degradation of the several branches constituting the tree of mental aspirations known in
the vulgar tongue as Knowledge, this number of the Peanut Parcher is the recipient of a foul blow of fate
by having been dedicated to that branch of humanity known as the Davidson RAT. (This rat is of the homus
specie—not the rodent family).

Roland Parker (to fresh roommate)—“Fresh, I wish you were strong enough to take me downstairs and give me a bath.”
Fresh (preparing to dump Parker)—“Well, I'm not strong enough to take you down there, but I'll give you a start.”

We've heard of spuds and humors of spuds, but when Tom Baker blew in to school from the wilds of
a Florida farm he told one that takes the cake. “Well,” said Tom, as he leaned up against a post
that wasn’t there, “just a week before I left the farm the old man told us at the breakfast table
one morning that we were to dig up all the Irish potatoes that day, so we went to work. We
hadn't gotten the first half bushel basket done when one of the hired men called us all to help him
pull a big one out of the ground. It took us till dinner time to get it out, but as
soon as we pulled it up the rest of the patch caved into the hole left by it.”

It was learned last week that Shorty Howell has been teaching school all summer. When questioned by a reporter he
confided the statement, and when asked for a definition of an educated man, he said: “Since being questioned about it
I will give you an original definition. My idea of an educated man is a fellow who can count up
to twenty without taking off his shoes.”

The Only One—"Bill, would you put yourself out for me?”
Shick Storey—“Certainly I would, darling.”
T. O. O.—"Please do, and I'm awfully sleepy. It’s after twelve.”

We heard that Skit got married this summer, but for unknown reasons his wife left him for another man. “They
ran away, and a week later the following advertisement appeared in a local paper: “This is to notify the party
that so kindly relieved me of my wife that I can supply him with bandages, arnica, healing salves, absorbent cotton,
iodine, sleeping powders, liniments, and crutches at rock bottom prices.”

See-Saw
“I see you saw that pile of wood in the yard.”
“Yes'm, I seen it.”
“You mean you saw it.”
“No’m. You saw me see it but you ain't seen me saw it.”

Preacher (to little boy)—“Sonny, you shouldn’t be wasting your whole Sunday afternoon by playing in the yard. Why don't you
go in the house and read your Bible?”
Johnny—“I’m not wasting my time. Ben Franklin is in the parlor spooning with sister and is paying me two bits
an hour to stay out here and watch for Pa and Ma.”

W. E. Milton—“I intend to work on a paper when I finish school.”
Editor—“What route do you want?”

An English clergyman was telling his flock about the terrible effects of strong drink and concluded his sermon with these
words: “I hope the day will come when every bottle of this cursed liquor will be taken away to the
nearest river and emptied. . . We will now sing hymn No. 204, ‘Shall We Gather at the River.’”

Jethro—"Go get one of Lord Helper’s chickens; he won't shoot a colored man.”
Tim—“I ain't takin’ no chances, niggah, he might be color blind.”Many married men wish that they had been faint-hearted.

Flake Laird—"Say, you didn’t know I was a hero did you?”
Tom Anderson—"Naw, what did you do to become a hero?”
Flake—"I saved a girl last night. Had two and saved one for tonight.”

“Hey, Peterson, why don’t you brush your shoes?”
Pete—"There ain't any hair on them, is there?”

We started to write a 7,000 word short story for this issue of the Davidson but on account of lack
of space we had to cut out 6,984 of the words. Here is the story: Rich girl. Motor car. Lonely
road. Breakdown. Ruffian. Scream. Poor boy. Rescue. Swoon. Love. Elopement. End.

A Roof Raiser
Announcement seen in the Cornelius Saturday Blade: “Dr. Whozatt will preach at the One hundred and twenty-fifth street church tonight,
after which a collection will be taken to cover expenses incurred in repairing the roof.”

“Is Chatterton a good salesman?”
“Can a duck swim? He just sold five gross of garters in a college town.”

R. O. T. C. Makes Plans For the Year's Work
Huie Cadet Major—Band to Play at Football Games and at Speedway

With the largest number of students taking the R. O. T. C. course since its institution at Davidson College, the
military department faces a most promising year, according to Capt. George H. Weems, who will be at the head of
the department again this year. Captain Weems is greatly encouraged with the number of students enrolled in the advanced course
which will ensure greater efficiency in the whole corps. The appointments for cadet officers have been announced with L. B.
Huie to be cadet major for the coming year to head the battalion. Huie is a Senior and has had
a great deal of experience in military work. There will be five cadet captains, namely, D. G. Wilson, L. L.
Deck, B. U. Ratchford, G. W. Smith, J. E. Moore, and B. T. Crayton, who will have charge of the
band. All these men have merited their “bars” by their hard work.

The teaching staff will be increased one over last year, Captains Weems, Dougherty and Elkins and Lieutenant Beckett composing the
executive staff. Each will have separate divisions of duty. Captain Weems will be professor of Military Science and Tactics, instructor
of the Sophomore class and tactical officer of Company D. Captain Dougherty will have charge of finances and property and
will be tactical officer of Company B and instructor of the Freshman class. Captain Elkins will be tactical officer of
Company A, have charge of the band and in addition will be instructor of the Junior class. Lieutenant Beckett will
be tactical officer of Company C and instructor of the Senior class and will also act as adjutant.

The R. O. T. C. course will run along the same general policies of last year, with only a few
minor changes. The corps will be required to equip themselves with regulation tan army shoes which will make a much
better appearance for the battalion. Captain Weems is anxious for students to consider the shoes at the Students’ Store before
purchasing others as they are the official type and are also cheaper in price. No credit will be given men
for military work taken in prep or high schools. Another change is the remodeling of the first floor of the
armory which took place this summer under the direction of Captain Dougherty. The floor has been more conveniently arranged. The
doors have been enlarged to prevent crowding. All classes in R. O. T. C. will be taught on the second
floor of the armory.

(Continued on page 8)

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Statesville

HUNGRY??
Home Cooked. Those tasty eats and delicious Punch for feeds and parties
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie’s) TEA ROOM

Since 1868
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES
Young Men’s Footwear of QUALITY of STYLE of ECONOMY
Always to be had at Gilmer-Moore’s. Davidson men have for years appreciated these facts and have visited Gilmer-Moore’s often, where
they're always welcome.
GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE
SHOES LUGGAGE

WELCOME!
New men, we welcome you to the campus. Old men, we are glad to see you back. We are now
open and ready to serve you. Give us the chance.
The Student’s Store
“It’s yours, why not patronize it?”
Visit us Now!

Got No Time---Fox Trot.
EVERYTHING THAT'S NEW ON COLUMBIA RECORDS
The Whispering Pianist (Art Gillham)
403-D 10 in. 75c
Look Who’s Here--Fox Trot
407-D Are They Pickin’ On Your Baby?---Fox Trot.
10 in. 75c
Charleston Baby O’Mine--Fox Trot.
411-D The Whispering Pianist (Art Gillham)
10 in. 75c
Angry
416-D Say Arabella--Fox Trot. Ted Lewis and His Band.
10 in. 75c
Angry—Fox Trot. Ted Lewis and His Band.
328-D I Had Someone Else Before I Had You.
75c You May Be Lonesome.
W-I. MCCOY & Co.
422-405 SOUTH TRYON STREET
THE CAROLINAS’ GREATEST FURNITURE STORE
423-425 South Tryon Street
The Little Ramblers
The Little Ramblers.
The Georgians.
