: THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

"Hello Man! Don’t forget my Wrigley’s. Bring it when you call on sister.” Insure your welcome with this wholesome, long-lasting
sweet. Use it yourself when work drags. It is a great little pick-me-up.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the SG&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Williamson—“This cold weather chills me to the bone.”
McConnell—"You should wear a hat.”

Guthery—"Dearest, do you think you could ever love a fellow like me?”
She—"If he wasn't too much like you.”

One day as I chanced to pass,
A beaver was damning a river;
And Goat Harris, who had run out of gas,
Was doing the same to his flivver.

Prof.—"There now, Mr. Lawson, just keep that in mind and you will have it in a nutshell.”

A bit of blank verse by Charley Hunter:
“Gather your kisses while you may,
Time brings only sorrow;
For the flappers who flap so freely today,
Are the chaperones of tomorrow.”

“This is quite the cow's hips,” said Pinkey Johnson, as he bit into the boarding-house steak.

“Gentlemen,” quoth one of our well-known Profs., “for the next lesson, begin where we left off today, and get down
to where we will start the following time.”

Ben Franklin, the country lad from Georgia, had just deposited a nickel in a pay station 'phone.
Operator—"Number, please?”
Franklin—"Number, thunder, you had better give me my chewing gum!”

He—"What do you think, girlie, I'm out for spring practice!”
She—"Oh, Charley, ain't that lovely. How far can you spring?"

Root—"This picture is entitled ‘Fleas.’"
Beer—"No doubt by one of our famous modern etchers.”

Hunt—"Where'd you buy the new suitcases?”
Joyner—"They're not suitcases; they are my new pair of shoes.”

Grandpa—"What did you draw, just now, little Emmalina?”
Emmalina—"I started to draw a picture of you, but it didn’t look exactly like you, so I put a tail
on it and called it a dog.”

FAMOUS WINES
Port —— ——— the deuce did you do that?
Bottle of Brandy
Genu——--——-. I'se g— home.

“How did you lose your hair?”
“Worrying.”
“What did you worry about?”
“Losing my hair.”

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N.C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.

Phonograph Records 50c each

Suggestion to Simp Bryant: The way to get more cheering out of the students is to give them root beer
before the game.

No, no, Isabel, they won't let half-sisters in the movies on one ticket.

“Rastus, I'm sorry to hear you've buried your wife.”
“Boss, I just had to—she was dead.”

The melancholy days have come,
The saddest of our annals;
It's far too cold for B. V. D.'s,
And far too hot for flannels.

Joe McConnell—"Where you going with that gun?”
Bob Walker—"To kill that little bird that tells my girl everything.”

Lord Helper—"Mr. Boggs, your wash jumped all over the laundry last week.”
Boggs—"Musta been my athletic underwear.”

Archie Reeves—"What did you make today?”
Buster Gray—"A sixteen on the first hole, a fifteen on the second hole, a seventeen on the third hole, and
then I blew up.”

Girl's boarding school—an institution of yearning.

“Willie, you may eat all the jelly you want to; but stay out of the traffic jam.”

Cheer up, old thing; you're not as bad off as Jonah, and he came out all right.

“How did you catch such a cold?”
“Somebody played ‘The Star-Spangled Banner’ while I was taking a bath.”

J. Doy Young, after waiting for all these years for the opportune moment, made his debut into the select social
circles of Charlotte last Saturday night. We learn with regret, however, that Mr. Young's immediate exit is being considered on
account of the high price of seats at the New Broadway Theatre.

Utopia University, Feb. 30, 1926,
Dear Dad:
Excuse my not writing sooner, but I have been busy beating the Sophomores.They let us Freshmen beat them so that
we will feel more at home. I feel pretty much at home, and the boys are so kind, offering to
lend me money if I need it, and also clean shirts and ties. There is a rule here against bumming
cigarettes so the kind-hearted sophomores came around last night and inquired as to our preference of cigarettes and cigars. I
didn’t know what they wanted until this morning I found a box of Muriels and a card. It had on
it “Compliments of the Sophomore Class.” Although they are a little uncouth, they are good boys, father, and I am
going to make friends with some of them. I helped out the students' loan fund today. We can now get
gin in the library and save the bootleggers' profit. That money goes to the students' loan fund.

My course in Necking is very technical, not hard although an experienced chorus girl teaches it and she insists on
the best we have. My dancing is rather easy and I sure “shot” old Schloss in Proper Dress class today.
He asked what should one wear with pink pajamas. It was a catch question and I, with my usual quickness
of perception, found it out and answered “Nothing!” He thinks that I am a stud and so he never asks
me a question as he is a great man to like to shoot the boys. My other two classes in
History 1 (prize fighting) and History 2 (Motion Picture Girls) are sure easy.

Well, the butler is coming in with my breakfast and I must run down to the show in a little
while. Love to all.

Your Offspring,
Percival.

CLEMSON PLAYS TENNIS HERE JUNIOR WEEK

Manager Beall, of the tennis team, announced this week that a match with Clemson has been arranged for Thursday, April
9. Davidson was very fortunate in getting this match with the Tigers, especially on this date, as it is the
first day of Junior Speaking. Clemson has always turned out a good court team and this year will be no
exception to the rule. In former years when the two schools met they were generally well matched, Clemson ordinarily winning
the singles but Davidson coming strong in other contests to even the score.

The spring tournament is about to close, although a few of the matches are yet to be played. A number
of new men are giving the four varsity letter men a close race for a place on the team. The
matches won and lost by the several contestants are: Wharton lost three; Crosland won two, lost one; Staley won three,
lost one; Brown won three, lost two; Beall won three, lost three; McCutcheon won six, lost three; Lockhart won one,
lost five; Price won seven, lost one; Alexander won one, lost four; Austin lost three; Trotter won two, lost two.

All of these players were selected on account of the showing they made in the fall tournament except the letter
men and they were placed in the running by virtue of former performances.

Would you like to step into a fine job this morning? Would you like to learn the touch system of
typewriting? Would you like to typewrite 80 words per minute? If so, call at 212 West for terms concerning a
four-weeks course.

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

CANDY FOR EASTER
SHE EXPECTS IT---SEE OUR COMPLETE STOCK
WHITE DRUG COMPANY

BALLS
BATS
GLOVES
STUDENT'S STORE
EATS
CLOTHING
SOAP
DRINKS
PENNANTS
R. O. SELLARS

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
