THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1925

DAVIDSON 14 CAROLINA 11 (Wrestling)
DAVIDSON 40 CAROLINA 23 (Basketball)

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Good Squad Reports for Field Day Scheduled for Next Thursday With Many Prizes for Students
With a large number of men turning out, track practice started off with a swing Monday afternoon. Prospects are bright this year for a winning team. The men are working out daily under the supervision of Coach Tilson and Captain Gracey and should be in good shape by the time of the first meet, which comes off March 28th with V. P. I., at the latter’s home grounds, in Blacksburg, Va.

The track season will be ushered in at Davidson earlier, however, as a “Field Day” will be held Thursday, March 5th. The meet is open to the students of the college, all being eligible save track letter men. A number of worthy prizes have been offered by the various merchants of the town to the winners of the separate events, and it will be well worth anyone's time to compete for one of the prizes. Coach Tilson is anxious for the men to turn out for the meet and show what they can do, whether they have had any previous training or not.

Plans are also being worked out to have an invitation track meet open to all high schools and prep schools in the state, with the Davidson Freshmen also eligible, to be held March 21st. The lists of prizes for the winners of the various events on Field Day, with the names of the donors, are as follows:

100 yard dash—$1.50 pressing ticket, W. G. McDonald.
220 yard dash—$2.00 in trade, Henderson, jeweler.
440 yard dash—$2.00 in trade, White Drug Company.
880 yard dash—$5.00 in cash, Crayton Motor Company.
One mile—$2.00 meal ticket, Globe Clothing Company.
Two miles—$5.00 in trade, W. G. Shields.
120 high hurdles—One pair shoes half-soled, W. W. Gibson.
220 low hurdles—$1.00 barber ticket, Norton Barber Shop.
Javelin—$1.00 pair of silk socks, A. S. Brown.
Shot put—$1.00 in trade, Fiddler's Grocery Company.
Discus—$1.00 cake, Misses Schofield.
Pole vault—$1.00 silk socks, W. B. Barnett.
Broad jump—$1.00 haircut ticket, Ralph Johnson.
High jump—$1.25 leather belt, E. A. Fry.
First high point man—U-drive it, to Charlotte.
Second high point man—Ben Beall to Charlotte.

DAVIDSON WINS FOUR (Continued from page 1)
Barrington, Davidson, in extra match, 23 seconds.
135 pounds—W. D. Cox, Davidson, threw Vick, Carolina, in 1 minute 28 seconds of the extra period.
145 pounds—Waters (C), Carolina, defeated L. P. Cox, Davidson, in an extra period, 9 seconds.
158 pounds—Patterson (C), Davidson, defeated Blankenship, Carolina, in an extra period match, 2 minutes 56 seconds.
Light-heavyweight—Warren, Carolina, defeated Taylor, Carolina, in an extra period, 4 minutes 37 seconds.
Heavyweight—Summers, Davidson, won from Vance, Davidson, by default in an extra period.

Notice to all sport editors, when they begin to pick all-state men on basketball and track practice Monday.

Sport Flashes By DON WHARTON
The standing of the “big five” basketball teams of North Carolina:
Team Won Lost Pct
Carolina 7 0 1.000
Davidson 3 2 .600
Wake Forest 3 3 .500
State 2 3 .400
Duke 0 7 .000

The North Carolina State “Technique” placed Davidson down next to Duke, saying that the first Davidson-Duke game was nothing but an exhibition affair. However, the correct standing of the clubs is shown above with the Wildcats hanging on to second place.

Tonight's game with Wake Forest and the final contest Saturday night will determine where the Wildcats will perch when the season is over. We suppose that the “Technique” will class tonight’s game as “exhibition” because it’s played in Charlotte. The team will have to stretch some to beat the Baptists twice. They have a fast quint up there.

While on the topic of basketball, a word about Coach Rawson's Freshman quint is in order. Although losing all four games of its trip through the state, the yearlings showed up well everywhere. When a team plays on foreign soil and loses four games by margins of eight, seven (two) and three points, it looks as if they played good basketball. We'd like to turn the Wildkittens loose on any of those quints on our own floor.

Something should be done right now so that next year our Freshman quint and baseball nine can play a real schedule. If the policy of allowing them only enough games to get started is continued, high school athletes will turn to other schools. Coach Rawson was speaking highly of the work of his two guards—Brown and Harrison. Not a single substitution was made for either on the entire trip, both featuring in all of the games. Milner also showed up nicely at times at forward.

The defeat which the grapplers gave Carolina Saturday night was a grand climax to a rather mediocre season. Considering the material at hand, Coach Weems has done well. From last Saturday's showing, one of the wings on the 1925 eleven is just about sewed up. Arrowood put up easily the featuring play of the game. However, Coach Tilson did not use his varsity men enough for them to really get started, and with Bohannon, Pinkney and Baker all there also it will be a lively scrap. Mutt Nesbit was perhaps the best looking inthe backfield of either team. The Southern Conference Tournament opened this weekend in Atlanta, and we're backing North Carolina. Many sportsmen are shaking their heads over the Tar Heel’s chances to repeat their 1922 and 1924 triumphs. South Carolina and Georgia, along with Alabama and Tulane, are reported as being the leading contenders.

Look at some of our Wildcat basketeers and Joe Frierson on the mat. “Equipment For Every Sport” Reach Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith Goods. Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street.

North Carolina's 36-15 victory over Virginia, after that team had won their state championship honors, was a big boost to the Tar Heels. For Virginia had defeated the Gamecocks of South Carolina by almost a double score. Carolina was beaten by the Gamecocks when Cobb was out—by one point.

All the Atlanta papers are talking up N. C. State—the Yellow Jackets bring back reports of the Wolfpack having a great quint. However, North Carolina decisively defeated State two times, allowing the Wolfpack only one field goal in the last game.

Wake Forest Coming to Gridiron Practice Fight Wildcats Twice Tonight’s Game in Charlotte Will Largely Decide Standing in Big “Five”

Tonight the Wildcats will stage the second game of a three-contest series with the Wake Forest basketball quint, in the City Auditorium at Charlotte. Saturday night the North Carolina basketball season will have its curtain pulled down in the final Davidson-Wake Forest clash at Davidson. In between the two games comes a scrap with the Guilford team on the home floor Friday evening.

The Wake Forest quint defeated Davidson 48-36 in the first meeting this year, staging a neat rally on their own court, after Davidson had led by one point at the end of the first half. The Baptists have a strong quint—in fact, one of the strongest in years, and have been going well. More than the usual fight that characterizes a Davidson-Wake Forest game will be developed in that the two games decide who will rank as runner-up to the North Carolina team in the state race. The Tar Heels have won the championship, but second honors will go to either the Baptists or Presbyterians.

The line-up for tonight follows:
Davidson. Position. Wake Forest
McAuley Right forward Emerson
Sullivan Left forward Grissett
Cobb Center
McConnell Right guard
Simpson Left guard

Substitutes—Davidson: Forwards: Beall and Faucette; center: Huie; guards: Simpson and Hudgins. Wake Forest: Forward, Vickers; guard: Olan Ellington.

RAY AND WHARTON ATTEND (Continued from page 1)

which characterized the entire conference. A few of the lectures were interestingly illustrated by pictures showing the actual work in Japan, China, and other missionary centers. The delegates on Sunday morning attended the services of the various denominations in the town and were cordially received by everyone. In the afternoon the election of new officers was held. The old officers were succeeded by the following new ones: President, Miss Elizabeth Cowen, of N.C. C. W.; vice-president, Miss Minnie Herrin, of Meredith; secretary, Miss Cordia Thompson, of Guilford; treasurer, Miss Maude Hunter, of Duke University.

The first thing of the convention each morning was the early morning watch or prayers. Such a manner and method of procedure apparently caused the convention to be an even greater success than it would have been otherwise, as the members took part unreservedly in the watches. Among the many speakers of the conference were the following: T. M. North, of Rocky Mount, N. C., who spoke on Missions; Mr. Shaffer, a missionary from Japan; Mr. S. C. Farrior, who is an educational missionary in China at present; and the latter’s wife, Mrs. S. C. Farrior. These are only a part of the speakers at the conference, and it is regretted that the others are not known by name. All the lecturers and speakers proved to be helpful and instructive in their talks on various phases of mission work.

Contest Saturday

On next Saturday the two teams of the spring football squad will clash again in the practice field. The Reds will attempt to blot out the defeat handed them last Saturday by the Blacks. Captain “Red” Baker will lead his team of Reds against the Blacks of Captain Black. The scrappy fighting as well as the color combination should prove interesting to the spectators. The excellent showing of the Freshmen last Saturday as well as the fighting spirit of the old men foretell evil tidings for the Hickory Hi eleven. This team will be played on Saturday after next, March 7th, on Richardson Field. But Hickory promises an excellent scrap. The admission to this game will be 50 cents; this applies to the students as well as outsiders.

The spirit and fight shown by the entire spring training squad is very satisfactory to all who have observed. The excellent material from the Fresh eleven will aid a great deal in the building of a good team next fall. If the prospects continue to show up as well in the future as they have during the past few weeks, there is no doubt that the Wildcats will have a good team next fall.

BRUISES

Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with light cloth. Repeat every few hours.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

On These Cold Days--- GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES They Satisfy the Appetite

W. G. SHIELDS

For High Class PRINTING of every description —- “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.