THE DAVIDSONIAN

H. M. Johnston
Staple and Fancy Groceries
QUICK DELIVERY
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal
A pleasant and agreeable sweet and a l-a-s-t-i-n-g benefit as well. Good for teeth, breath, and digestion. Makes the next
cigar taste better. Sealed in its Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria.

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Horatius doing at the bull pen? Did you ever happen to think what a unique thing a suspender button is?

Extract from church bulletin:
Sermon: "Kissing: Is it sane and sanitary?"

Prof.: "What would you do for a man who has his nose broken in two places?"
Fresh: "Tell him to keep out of those places."

Son: "Is it true about the ass disguising himself in a lion’s skin?"
Father: "So the fable goes; but now the colleges do it with a sheep-skin."

Claude Sears gives as the reason for his laziness: the fact that he eats a great deal of loaf sugar.

Bob Walker: "If you were rich, what would you want most of all?"
Montgomery: "An alarm clock with a busted buzzer."

Down in a small Georgia town last summer, a motorist stopped to seek directions to the next town. A country-looking
youth ambled up.
"Boy," asked the motorist, "How far is it to Hicham?"
"Wal," drawled Ben Franklin, "I don't 'zactly know, but I'll call my brother Jed. Jed’s traveled all over, Jed has.
Jed’s got shoes."

Glen: "Love is a kind of insanity."
She: "Who in the world has been falling in love with you?"

Get Close to Nature
Why not make a few mud pies for a change?

A girl we like is Nelly Bly; She always keeps the old man shy.
A girl we crave is Ossie Bloke, She hugs until you nearly choke.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um!

Dry Cleaning - Pressing - Dyeing - Repairing
NEW PLANT
SLOAN’S CLEANERS & DYERS
STATESVILLE, N. C.
PROMPT SERVICE

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Frome’s, Whitman’s, and Hollingsworth’s Candies.
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

At last a way has been found to get rid of the mud. Move the college.

We know a man so dumb he thinks locomotor-ataxia is a U-Drive-It car.

Reward
One (1) silk potato masher and one (1) used chiclet for the return of one (1) Hollow Goose issue of
the Chronicle to Frank Ebey.

As an expert tennis player, our baby beats them all; Because his racket is immense and he doesn’t miss a
bawl.

We laugh at the Prof’s jokes, no matter what they be; Not because they're funny jokes, but out of policy.

On the farm, more rain, more mess; At Davidson, more rain, more mess.

Ashes to ashes and dust to dust, if the Executive Committee don’t get you, the R.O.T.C. must.

She was more than passing fair; A smile, a nod, a half-closed eye, and the peach became a pair.

McRae: "Good morning, Frank, how are you feeling?"
Taylor: "Oh, pretty well. I have bet-ter, but it has cost me more."

Something popular this week—Sleep.

The height of self-control (also meanness)—taking a girl out riding on a moonlight night, promising not to kiss her—and keeping
the promise.

WITH OUR FOREIGN JOKERS
The following samples of continental wit are submitted with the sincere hope that those foreign language students who worry us
with their linguistic gymnastics will herein find nuts too hard for their jaws.

Deutsch
Frisch Lowranee—Herr Professor, ich bitte um die Hand Ihrer Tochter!
Herr Professor (von seinem Buch aufblickend): So! Und was wollen sie damit machen?

Francais
Pierre Boger (dans le restaurant Charlotte): Ici! Mon homme! Apportez-moi une cuillère pour mon café.
Attendant: Je regrette, Monsieur, mais nous ne les servons pas ici. La musique ici est tant bougante.

Espanol
En que mes hablan menos las mujeres? —En el de febrero.

The following letter was recently received by the Christian Observer and sent to the editor of the Peanut Parcher.

"Dear Mr. Converse:
"We are two little friends in Florida. Our mothers have asked us to write and tell you that we have
almost learned the Shorter Catechism, and we enjoy reading about the other little boys and girls who have. We are
having a fine time going in swimming and eating oranges but we wish we could see some snow. Every morning
we help our mamas wash and wipe the dishes. Please do not let this letter get in that horrid old
wastebasket as we want to surprise our brothers and sisters who are at Davidson and..."Agnes Scott. Your little friends, Heber
McIlwaine, Mary Jones. Safety Harbor, Fla. Dec. 24, 1924. (If you don’t believe this is a real copy of the
Observer for January 28, 1925.) A peach came walking down the street, of Hebe’s letter look on the Children’s page.

Students Celebrate as Sleet Furnishes an Ice Rink
Sledding, Skiing, Skating, Slipping, Sliding, Stumbling Introduced as Campus Sports

Last Wednesday morning when the call of the boarding houses made the students leave the arms of Morpheus to satisfy
their longings for grits, they looked out upon a white-clad campus. This caused no great excitement, so everyone started for
their classes as usual. It has been reported to the head janitor that Hebe McIlwaine was the first man on
the campus to learn that Nature had played a mean joke on this dreary world. Hebe, like the rest of
the fellows, thought the expanse of whiteness was snow, and boldly ventured forth into the great unknown, but only for
a step or two, as his feet quickly changed ends with his head, and he made a flying tackle at
a sycamore tree. (For sliding purposes, an inch of sleet is worth a foot of snow).

After a careful census was made, it was learned that the prize of a diamond-studded coal shovel is to be
awarded to “Phi Beta” Purdy, as he is the only one in the student body who did not “hit the
ice” (N.B.—He was in the Infirmary). Though nothing serious happened, there were several small accidents during the period of coolness.
Fred Smith, in an attempt to ski using the back of a chair for his apparatus, fell headfirst over the
wall in front of West, but only broke three teeth. Bill Ramsey broke one of his wooden legs while trying
to skate on the frozen rain, and several fellows, in riding the sleds, got upset and came away with bloody
noses, skinned jaws, etc. Julian Briggs, seeing things, wore football shoes and carried a spiked stick all day. He fell
down only three times, not counting the first 17. Everyone had a “hot time” but were sorry that Mother Nature
could not see her way clear to let about six inches of snow fall on top of it.

“Fresh Out!” surface the condition of a 39 on the ice.

THE OLD HOME TOWN

Most all have felt the throb of city streets Infuse itself into their minds; the taste Of glamor; life raised
to a fever heat By constant bustle, roar, and waste Of sweat-drawn money for a tinsel foil, Of means ill-gotten
from toil. But dreams of childhood days come back again— The summer winds and moonlight nights are there. The hum
of bees, long lazy days, then— A sweetened memory of laughing hair And roguish eyes from one you call your
own. The love years have passed—your dreams all have flown, The old home town—what pleasant dreams it brings; Of childish
joys, of happiness and bliss The first sweetheart—the notes of birds in Spring When thoughts of young men turn to
their fair miss. Ah! those were the days of true contentment. Strive Had never forced itself into your life.

How sweet are thoughts of yesterday, the friends We used to know seemed to us kind and true. Familiar scenes
that memory lends Brings tender visions in our hearts anew. We feel a stirring in our hearts to go Back
to the old home town we used to know. A face comes fleeting back, back through all the years; A
mother’s face which only time can prize. We yet remember the last sad sight, the tears; We still can see
the lovelight in her eyes, The light that shone for years, still shines tonight From out the window with its
candle bright. The Old Home Town is calling, soft and low Come half-forgotten voices from the past— The lure of
youthful sports from long ago, We come to see the one clear path at last. Clear comes the call, we
cannot turn it down, The best of places is the Old Home Town.

When he went to V.P.I. He smoked no pipe; He “rolled his own,” When she went to V.P.I. She had
no maid; She “rolled her own.” Now they are married and settled down, In a four-wheel carriage “roll their own.”

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
