6 Ys THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1925

Any old bird can smoke a camel and not get very sick, but it takes a two-fisted, triple-threat, he-man from
the mountain country of the backwoods to smoke one of Skit McConnell's two for a nickel El Sicko cigars.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE

Annual “Y” Meeting is Source of Interest to Students and Townsfolk

Dr. C. F. Meyers of Greensboro Delivers Series of Excellent Sermons

Last Monday night Dr. C. F. Meyers gave the first of a series of talks before the Davidson student body.
Dr. Meyers was brought here by the Y. M. C. A. as the speaker at the revival services held each
year at this time. He gave a total of five addresses closing on Wednesday night. Dr. Meyers is pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church at Greensboro and one of the most forceful speakers in the Southern Church today. Each of
his talks was brim full of common sense and thoroughly enjoyed by those who attended. As usual, the meetings were
well supported by the student body and town people.

In the talk to the student body last Tuesday evening, Dr. Meyers took as his subject Matthew 27:36, "And sitting
down, they watched him there." This verse is in reference to the way the people reacted to the crucifixion of
Christ, the attitude of indifference. The greatest sin over the world today is not in acts of commission, but in
those of omission. From the earliest days of the Christian religion, men have died for their beliefs. First were those
of Rome, who hid in the catacombs to worship. There they were found and brought before emperors, and sentenced to
die horrible deaths because they had the strength to stand fast in their faith contrary to the demands of the
church. Those Christians, too, died for their faith. Persecution followed them.

There are three problems that confront the one leaving for the first time. First, there is a natural indisposition or
timidity for one to face the world alone. Second, to overcome the unwillingness of those that are to be left
behind. Third, the Devil has to be overcome. He does not want anyone to leave. Pharaoh made excuses to the
people of Israel when they were getting ready to leave Egypt; the Devil was speaking through him, for he knew
that his plans would be thwarted if they were allowed to leave. If the one that is leaving thinks of
God, and includes Him in his plans, he is sure to succeed. With God’s help we can overcome the timidity
of facing the world alone, we can prevail on those that are unwilling for us to leave, and lastly, we
can rout the temptations of the Devil and win out. God give us the power to win out in all
our works. He gave Moses the eloquence and wisdom, and power to work miracles. It is not for us to
make excuses, for if only we take God as our counsellor and guide, He will show us the right and
in the end we will win out.

WILDCATS WIN (Continued from page 1)

Davidson twisted, turned, sidestepped and drove for 14 first downs compared with State’s 3. Passes: Davidson, attempted 8, completed 7;
State, attempted 23, completed 3, intercepted 1. They saw the little Davidson line sweep aside the Wolfpack forwards; they saw
McDowall pass and pass again in a futile attempt to defeat the Wildcats. They saw pass after pass uncompleted by
State and saw Hendrix, touchdown. Wells gained 17 yards. Halfway through this period Grey made a try for a drop-kick
with the ball on State’s 35-yard line. McDowall soon made a short kick and it was Davidson’s ball on State’s
23-yard line. After three unsuccessful attempts Allen kicked his beautiful dropkick. Then came the fourth quarter. The period had rollicked
along for some minutes and Davidson was given the ball on her own 20-yard line. Nisbet started the drive with
his 21-yard run. A few passes and line smashes and a 15-yard penalty on State put the ball on State’s
15-yard line. Nisbet gained eight yards in two plays and then Hendrix went over for the touchdown.

N. C. State (0) Position Davidson (9)
Beatty LE Pinkney
Nicholson LT Ritchie
Anthony LG Vance
Logan Center McConnell
White RG Belton
Bynum RT Baker
Austell RE Bohannon
Thomas QB Hendrix
McDowall LH Wells
Johnson (c) RH R. Grey
Shuford FB Black (c)

Score by quarters: Davidson 0 3 0 6 - 9 State 0 0 0 0 - 0

Officials: Gass (Lehigh), referee; Izzard (W. & L.), umpire; Harrell (N. C.), head-linesman. First downs: Davidson 14, State 3. Scoring:
Allen for Wells, dropkick; Hendrix, touchdown.

We'd hardly like to say that our overcoats are good enough to eat, but they’re certainly the apple of many
a man’s eye. After all, why not? There are many, many beautiful patterns of the finest woolens---many of them pure
Scotch fabrics. The styles, too, are just as appetizing---everything from the light, slip-on topcoat to the burly ulster.

Students at the University of North Carolina have complained that the college band practice disturbs them, and...To Scotland, and in
the hills of the territory of the Wolfpack. In addition, Covenanters met to praise their God, only to be found
and executed because they would not give up their faith. But today, we are not called upon to die for
our faith. Instead, we are on the fence of indecision, seeing others that are strong enough to fight for the
right, while we are too indifferent to step in and lend a hand. Our college career could be called successful
if only we would throw ourselves with all of our natural, wholehearted loyalty into some worthwhile task, to do something
that would count.

Dr. Meyers took as his text Exodus 5:1, "Let my people go that they may hold a feast unto me
in the wilderness." The greatest moment in the life of a boy or man is the time when he leaves
the home ties to work his own way in the world. It is also the greatest moment in leading the
lives of others in the right path, bringing them one rung nearer the coveted honor.

Only once did State attempt a drop-kick, and then it was when McDowell tried a drop-kick from the 45-yard line.
At another point, they came to Davidson's 15-yard line, but never any further. The first score of the game came
soon after the second quarter began. Davidson, in three plays, had gained nothing, and with the ball on State’s 25-yard
line, Coach Monk Younger sent in Allen, the drop-kicker. Standing on the 35-yard line, this white-haired lad sent the pigskin
sailing far over the uprights and thus drew the first points for the Wildcats.

Shortly after the fourth period began, Davidson was given the ball on her own 20-yard line when McDowell had kicked
over the goal line. Then the Wildcats began to bewilder the State team, and with the exception of one exchange
of punts, it was a continuous march down the field until Hendrix skipped across for seven yards and a touchdown.

The entire Davidson team was fighting every minute of the game this afternoon, but it took Vance and Baker, those
stellar forwards, to lead the charging linemen to victory. It was Hendrix leading in the backfield, backed up by the
support of every Davidson back that began the game or who went in as a substitute. Nisbet, a Charlotte boy,
drove like a madman while in the game in the fourth period and tore off 21 yards at one clip,
only to be downed by State’s safety man.

As a star, McDowell was woefully lacking this afternoon, perhaps due to the rushing of the Davidson line. He was
forced to pass quickly. His punting was good. Captain Johnson and Jeanette were the best State presented in the backfield
today, with the little end, Austell, as the star of the State team working in conjunction with Nicholson in the
line.

During the game, State attempted a total of 23 passes, completing three for a total of 22 yards. Davidson intercepted
one. Davidson tried 13 passes, completing six for 99 yards with no interceptions. The only important event in the first
period was a drop-kick attempted by McDowell from the 45-yard line, and when the quarter ended, Bohannon had just intercepted
a pass on Davidson’s 34-yard line, first and 10 to go. On the second play of the second quarter, Bohannon
intercepted another pass.

We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers. We can show you a complete line of sweaters,
trousers, hats, and shoes. Fellows, we believe in cooperation to do the rest. The Sanitary Cafe, Mooresville, N.C., next door
to Artcraft Theatre.

For the services of Wednesday evening, the Spanish Inquisition, an era that marks the blackest page in the history of
those in power. Then came the days of the climb toward the State championship, their victory this afternoon putting them
one rung nearer the coveted honor. We want it to hold meetings out of range of the dormitories.

Mon. and Tues., Nov. 9-10 --- East of Suez, a Paramount picture.
Wed. and Thurs., Nov. 11-12 --- The Red Lilly.
Fri. and Sat., Nov. 13-14 --- Harold Lloyd in The Freshman.

We can show you a complete line of sweaters, trousers, hats, and shoes. "Everything Musical" --- Pianos, player-pianos, Victrolas, records,
and rolls. Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments, sheet music. Oldest in the state. When you furnish your fraternity
house, see Andrew Music Store, 213 N. Tryon St.

Just received: a new fall shipment of Manhattan shirts and pajamas. The Globe Clothing Co. (Davidson's only clothing store).
