THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite

W. G. SHIELDS
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service

H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

Value Received?
‘26—"What are you going to do with your degree if you get it this year?"
'25—"Give it to the old man, he paid for it."

“Over the fence is out,” said convict No. 1398 as he dropped on the outside of the prison wall, “I'm going to buy a revolver.”
“Six shooter?”
“Naw, nine, got to kill a cat.”

DO YOU KNOW THAT---
1. Mississippi is not married.
2. You can't bounce a snowball.
3. If all the cigarette boxes sold in New York in one day were placed on top of one another, they would probably fall over.
4. You can't strike a match on a cake of soap (unless it’s Ivory).
5. There are no bones in ice cream.
6. Chapel attendance at Davidson is compulsory.
7. You can't swim in a poolroom.

“I’m giving you the cold dope,” said the nurse pouring out the cough medicine.

Mrs. Eskimo—"Well, where have you been for the past six months?”
Mr. Eskimo—"Dear, I've been sitting up all night with a sick friend.”

Father (over long distance)—"Hello, son, why didn’t you make better grades?”
Son—"I can't hear you, father.”
Father—"I say, couldn't you make better grades?”
Son—"I can't hear you at all.”
Father—"I say, do you need any money?”
Son—"Yes, sir, send fifty dollars, father.”

No, Farrish, Santa Claus is not the editor of St. Nicholas.

'27—"I'm out for spring practice now.”
'28—"That's fine. How far can you spring?”

Rotter! Spotter, Dater, Rusher, Embracer, Kisser, Lover, Leaver. Finder ‘Nother, Do Ther Same.

“Well, well,” said our absent-minded professor as he stood in the bathtub, “Now what did I get in here for?”

“How do you like my new suit?”
“Well, frankly, I think you got worsted.”

Night Watchman—"Young man, are you going to kiss that girl?”
He—"Er, no sir.”
Night Watchman—"Here then, hold my lantern.”

Page Izzey Say, when he talked to his dead wife through a medium he tried to reverse the charges.”
“Is he close?”

Prof.—"How many ribs have you.”
Kid Lyerly—“I don’t know, sir, I'm so tickled I can never count them.”

Eclairs!! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Aesop's No. 3001—"I'm not going to Charlotte this week, I'd rather home study.”
No. 3002—"Yes, they give us three weeks for the Xmas holidays.”

Famous Brands
Insect Powder, Cattle—
Boarding House—
New. Ali—
Wasteful

“Hi! gimme a handful of waste” I howled, (I was under the auto to grease it)
But Hi had an armful of waist in the car
And wasn't disposed to release it.

Kornegay—"What kind of shoes do you think I ought to wear with these golf hose?”
Lewis—"Hip boots.”

Dear Mr. Wurlitzer:
After playing your drums for four years, I find they cannot be beat.

Mary—“See Dan?”
Joe—“No, a Coupe.”

“How is your son getting along in college?”
“He's doing very well in his languages. I just paid for three of his courses, ten dollars for Latin, ten dollars for Greek, fifty dollars for Scotch.”

Davidson Bummers
First Tramp—"I came in a Cole eight.”
Second Tramp—"Yeh?”
First Tramp—"Yeh, Coal car with eight wheels.”

Booth—"How much is a haircut?”
Barber—"Fifty cents.”
Booth—"A shave?”
Barber—"Twenty-five cents.”
Booth—"Shave my head.”

1. “Don't kid ‘em about the whiskers.”
2. “Who, Cox?”
3. “No, Smith Brothers.”

The Law—"You are charged with being a deserter, having left your wife. Is the charge true?”
Lawbreaker—"No, Your Honor, I am not a deserter, just a refugee.”

Speed?
Once a yearling, young and bright,
Took a Packard out at night,
Through the back way out of sight—
Told dad—
Never drove the thing before;
Funny levers on the floor,
Wondered what the things were for—
Got the gear shift in reverse,
Went from second into first,
‘Til the gears, as things grew worse—
Said—
Gr-r-r-r-r-r-r-r-r
Followed the road that hugs the shore;
The motor changed to anopen roar, The speedometer needle began to soar— Like this— 40-50-60-70-75 A speed trap on the boulevard, The Packard gaining yard by yard, A tack and a tire the evening marred Like this— S-s-S-s-S-5-S-S--S The cop came up and the air got blue, His face had a most unhealthy hue, While he talked to me as speed cops do, Like this— 201% 2? //:@$! Then came a courtroom, dim and gray, The dismal end of a dismal day, The judge said all, and all his say Was like this— S$FSSSH$S$S

Registrations Received for Advanced Corps Work

The local Military Department of the R. O. T. C. is well pleased with the number of men who have signed up for the advance R. O. T. C. About 40 men have already been signed, and more, of course, are expected before the enrollment closes on May the tenth. The number exceeds the enrollment of either last year or the year before by a good margin.

The camp will open on June the twelfth and last until the 20th of July. Practically all the men will go to Camp McClellan at Anniston, Ala. Approximately half of the Sophomores signed will attend camp this summer, and the others at the end of their junior year. All of the men will be measured for officers' uniforms in the near future, in order that the uniforms will be ready for issue on the first day of school next year. The names of those who are to take the advance course are as follows: J. W. Crinkley, J. B. Kukendall, Tom Hamilton, J. M. Farrell, W. A. Alexander, W. L. Kornegay, J. C. Frierson, W. O. Puckett, W. M. Treverton, A. Th. Copeland, H. S. Frierson, Jack Hand, J. A. Joyner, J. B. Webb, J. K. Bell, T. G. McCutcheon, D. M. Calhoun, R. Hebe McIlwaine, Geo. H. Zuninierinat, Nelson Bross, John Gladney, Steve Wall, T. G. Purcell, J. S. McRae, T. L. Short, W. B. Kiser, Jas. A. King, E. Lingle, W. F. Taylor, Walter Davis, J. W. Keerans, Alexander McTavish, C. C. Murchison, A. L. Reeves, R. L. Mitchell, W. F. Glenn, J. Z. McDaniel, K. V. Woodham, W. O. Green, A. McIver.

DAVIDSON STUDENTS PLAN (Continued from page 1)

Greece and Italy he will make a brief tour of France and England. Professor Goldiere is also planning a trip to France with a group of students. He intends to leave early in June for an informal trip in France and neighboring countries. However, his plans are not yet completed and nothing definite has been settled about his trip. Doctors Shewmake and Lingle plan to have rooms together on the Leviathan although they will be separated while in Europe. They expect to return on board the Leviathan, leaving Cherbourg, France, about September 1.

Mr. M. C. S. Noble, who comes as a substitute for Doctor Hood, is now in Europe. He is the son of Professor Noble in the Department of Education in the University of North Carolina, who was once a student at Davidson.

Notice has also been received that a fourth commissioned officer will be sent to the college for the coming session. The R. O. T. C. staff has been limited to three officers heretofore but these men are not capable to accommodate the increasing student body and Captain Weems has applied for and secured this officer in addition to the regular staff.

COLUMBIA THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY COLUMBIA, S. C. Established 1828

Has served the church well for ninety-eight years. Has prepared 800 ministers. Has 300 living alumni. Has 22 Seniors in 1925. Class entering this fall will have two years on the Columbia Campus and will remove in 1927 to Atlanta for the Senior year. Will be first class to graduate in Atlanta. Will be the centennial class of a historical institution. The Centennial Celebration in Atlanta in 1928 will be the outstanding event of the Presbyterian Church of this generation. For information write RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

INCREASED FACULTY (Continued from page 1)

six years. For the past two years he has been “Senior Fellow” in Indo-European Comparative Philology. During this time he has been assistant teacher in German and will receive his doctorate this summer.

PHONE 298 BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Victrolas Victor Records Steinway Pianos Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos Player Piano Rolls Parker-Gardner Company CHARLOTTE, N.C.

Furniture, Rugs Draperies and Interior Decorations We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms Society Halls, Etc.

BALLS CLOTHING AND HATS LEWIS BASEBALL SUPPLIES BATS EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS STUDENT'S STORE GLOVES DRINKS PENNANTS SOAP R. O. SELLARS