THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1925

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

COUGHS
Every few hours swallow slowly small pieces of Vicks the size of a pea. Melt a little in a spoon and inhale the vapors.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

A KISS AMISS
Sweet Young Thing—“Have you ever kissed a girl?”
Bill Woods—“Is that an invitation or are you gathering statistics?”

BLOODY WAR
The editor of the Goober Scorcher has asked different campus philosophers to contribute some of their rare gleanings to be published in these columns. The following come from “Bloody War” Hudgins. Watch for one each week:
'Tis better to have loved and lost
Than to get married and be bossed.

AND THEN SHE PASSED OUT
Bobby Glenn had gone to see his best girl. They were sitting on the sofa, a nice comfortable sofa before a roaring fire. She was beautiful, as all girls should be. An embarrassing silence was broken by a heavy sigh, he seized her lily white hand, and looking into her beautiful brown eyes, whispered, “Darling, I love you. Won't you take charge of my kitchenette?” Avoiding his gaze, she shook her head as a sign of refusal, not daring to trust her voice. At this he leaped to his feet, rushing out into the hall, grabbed his hat and strode towards the door, but at the threshold he paused, “And tomorrow they will be dragging the river for my dead body.” “Oh, Bobby, not that,” she cried. “But they won't find it,” he finished, “for I am going home to bed.”

FREE 5 TUBE RADIO SET FREE
Send self-addressed, stamped envelope for full particulars regarding this OFFER.
RADIOTEX CO.
296 Broadway
New York, N. Y.

OR A NUT
Kid Lyerly says an optimist is a man who buys from a Jew and expects to sell to a Scotchman at a profit.

Tee—“John Melton put his arm around me five times last night.”
Hee—“Some arm.”

Agent—“How old are you, madam? And how long have you been blind?”
“I’ve seen thirty summers.”

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

BEEF! BEEF!
Fresh—“Pass the beef, please sir.”
Soph—“Run the cow down this way; its calf is bawling.”

“Is Davidson in Charlotte?”
“Yes, a good part of the time.”

AGAIN AND AGAIN
Buck Shaw—“Dearest, I can’t say it, but that kiss I just gave you explained it all—do you understand it?”
She—“No, say it again.”

FELLOWS!!!
We have several new U-Push’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable.
See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

STEP ON IT, KID
When you're in a Ford with your girl chemistry is like love, for the lower the gas the greater the pressure.

The hobo dreams of handouts,
The drunkard dreams of snakes,
The student dreams of 95’s—
Too bad all dreams are fakes.

Captain (calling roll)—“Gooseberry!”
And Roseberry answered—“Here, sir!”

A CO-ED BULL SESSION:
“Now let’s talk about something.”
“No, let's talk about somebody.”

Wife (wearily putting a plate of cold biscuits on the table)—“A woman’s work is never done.”
Her Husband (pushing plate of biscuits away)—“Right you are.”

Nine Students Taken In by Omicron Delta Kappa
New Initiates Are All Leaders in Campus Activities

The initiation of members to the Delta Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa was held last Monday night at the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity Hall. The receiving of a bid from this honorary fraternity is the highest honor of its type a man may receive while at Davidson. This signal honor was extended to nine men, eight of whom are members of the present Senior class, leaders in campus life, and Dr. R. L. Kelly, a distinguished alumnus of Earlham College, Indianapolis, Ind. Dr. Kelly is connected with the American Association of Colleges and Universities. He is paying Davidson a visit on behalf of that organization.

LET IT BE NOT SO!
Statistics show that if we eat potatoes...Here is the cleaned OCR text, preserving the original meaning and punctuation:

C.F. Monk, of Moultrie, Ga.; R.W. Graves, Rome, Ga.; E.K. Regen, Franklin, Penn.; T.S. Baker, W.P.L. Deck, D.G. Wilson, G.F. Laird, of Atlanta, Ga.; J.W. Anderson, Anderson, S.C. The active members of the circle prior to Monday night were: R.B. Parker, A.H. Hollingsworth, N.E. Sappenfield, C.F. Smith, H.L. Shaw, of the student body, and F.I. Jackson, T.W. Lingle, M.E. Sentelle, J.M. McConnell, of the faculty.

"Don Quixote," "Lear," and "Paradise Lost" were mentioned. "Goethe's 'Faust,'" he said, was secretive, original, and contained much reality. Before naming the tenth book on his list, he said that it had to be a novel. He discussed several of the well-known novels, but none satisfied all the requirements, so he picked "The Idiot," by Theodor Dostoevsky.

Mr. Powys is on a tour of the South, having spoken at Greensboro College, and will go from here to Shorter College, in Rome, Ga. Winding up his Southern tour, he goes to New York, where he will lecture for some time and then go west with Chicago as his destination. He plans to be in this country until the spring of next year.

He illustrated how impossible it would be for one to try to select a group of the best books that affect the exterior of one’s nature. He stated that a good book must necessarily be startling and dangerous. The thought around which he built his talk centered about the idea of "what books should be selected by a man condemned to live on a desert island, where he would have no means of replenishing his stock of literature." "One could readily see that a man would grow tired of the wild west and detective stories if one were forced to read them over and over," was another thought expressed. Taking the books that he had chosen separately, he outlined his reason for placing each one.

"We never close. Any time you get hungry, come up." - TOWELL’S FILLING STATION, Davidson, N.C.

Pat Harmon—“My girl is divine.” Dan Currie—“Yours may be divine, but mine is de berries.”

Mavis: Character is Reflected in the Stationery He Uses.

NOTE BOOKS, STATIONERY, TYPEWRITER SUPPLIES - POUND & MOORE CO., S. Tryon St., CHARLOTTE.

S.S. Teacher—“Can anyone name some of the prophets?” Bright Kid—“Yes'm: Isaiah, Jeremiah, Hosea, and the guy who wrote ‘It Ain't Gonna Rain No Mo’.”

THE WHITE DRUG CO., DAVIDSON, N.C. PURE DRUGS AND DRUG SUNDRIES. We appreciate your business.

Kelly Moore takes the cake and candles this week. The other day he hobbled to the third floor of Chambers (on crutches), complaining of an injured dog. As the door to the classroom was locked, he sat out in the hall until time for his class. AND when the bell DID ring, he got up and walked into the classroom without his crutches! You've got a poor memory, Kelly. Moral: There’s more ways to kill a saxophone player than by waiting for his instrument to wear out.

"Where's that Bell boy who grades Spanish papers?" cried a very fresh freshman as he opened the door to Cell X, N. Barracks.

ARE YOU HUNGRY? We have fresh sandwiches, milk, fruits, candy, cigarettes, etc. COME IN AND EAT. The Student’s Store - “It’s yours, why not patronize it?”

Our latest song-hit—“When banana peels start blooming I'll come sliding back to you.”

Mrs. J.R. Withers entertained at tea during the last week in honor of Miss Daniels, of New York, the guest of Mrs. W.R. Grey.