THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1925

This Week’s Puzzle in Shape of Letter That Stands for Best College in South

Herewith is presented the third sampler of the season in the way of cross-word puzzles, and if anything, it is
harder than its predecessors. This puzzle was devised by Fred Coffman, a graduate of Leland Stanford University, who has been
engaged in installing the local water filtration for the past few months. Mr. Coffman has shown a lively interest in
the activities of Davidson since he has been here, and has attended every athletic contest and every other meeting of
the student body. He has made many friends since he has been here and he wishes to give his friends
something in the way of a puzzle to cross their minds over while he is away. It is planned to
work out some puzzles in various foreign languages, thereby awakening interest in this important line of scholastic activities. And for
the prize for the correct solution of this week's, Mr. Coffman offers a Davidson pennant; the award going to the
first Davidsonian who brings in the correct solution to the editor of this paper. Get hot boys, and solve ‘er!

CROSS-WORD PUZZLE

By Fred Coffman

HORIZONTAL
1—A western university.
11—A prefix meaning “to” or “toward.”
12—Ardor or outburst.
13—An army officer (Abbr.)
15—Animal life.
17—East Indian trees of the apple-custard family.
19—German word for “is.”
20—A blot or stain.
22—National Tinners’ Association (Abbr.)
24—The distal angle between a leaf and its axis.
26—"Wee—hours.”
27—In either instance (Abbr.)
28—A pipe or hole through which liquor is drawn.
29—Distinguished Service Cross (Abbr.)
30—Alabama (Abbr.)
31—A cultivated food grain.
32—A golf term.
33—Human beings.
34—Our aunt's pajamas (Abbr.)
35—Pegs or bolts used to fasten articles together.
36—An edible freshwater fish.
37—Latin word for “self.”
38—Gone by.
39—Pertaining to an association of sororities.
45—A young woman.
46—German word for “egg.”
47—A dish of many ingredients.
49—Excesses in weight or influence.

VERTICAL
1—A meadow.
2—Administration of an estate.
3—A prominent national college fraternity.
4—Such little imps (Abbr.)
5—To make a certain kind of lace or embroidery.
6—One indifferently out of a number.
7—A fish-hook dressed with feathers.
8—Any of a large class of unctuous combustible substances which are liquid and soluble in ether but not in water.
9—A girl's name.
10—Urgent demands for payment.
14—The goose’s pin feathers (Abbr.)
16—A disease of human beings.
18—A chemical salt used in cooking.
21—One who mounts skins.
23—A kind of pastry (Plural).
25—One of a group of plants growing on rocks and bark.
35—License to come and go on a railroad.
36—Low or worthless.
38—Chums.
39—A small sharp explosive report.
40—Used in introducing a married woman's maiden name.
41—A college degree.
42—Electrical Institute Engineers (Abbr.)

LAST WEEK’S PUZZLE

The following is the solution to the crossword puzzle that appeared in the issue of February 5, 1925:

HORIZONTAL
1—Trough
2—Oil
6—Sieve
11—Inorganic
13—No
15—Hag
16—Ex
17—Oof
19—SSE
20—Oat
23—Sot
25—Alm
27—Is
29—Re
32—Shamelessness
33—So
36—Fools

VERTICAL
1—Tin
3—Uniform
4—Go
5—HRH’s
8—Eidolon
9—EC
10—Sox
12—Gasolene
14—O
16—Et
18—Os
21—Am
22—Kissed
24—Tee
28—Shofer
31—Psyche

Beautiful Girls Visited Campus as Week-End Fraternity Guests

Seven Fraternity Chapters Act as Hosts to Young Lady Visitors

A veritable sea of girls flooded the campus during the past weekend, as seven of the eleven fraternities represented on
the campus centered their attention on a post-exam sea of festivity. Multi-colored frocks of delicate and shimmering materials, and new
spring hats to match, vied with each other in producing a scene of color and beauty. It seemed as if
“Junior Speaking,” with its usual revelry and action, was casting its shadow ahead, as various fraternity chapters swung into the
first series of weekend parties following the examination period.

The fraternity guests included:

Beta Theta Pi
Eleanor Kirkman, Nashville, Tenn.; Mary Erwin Dennis, San Antonio, Tex.; Alice Barbee, High Point, N. C.; Dot Johnson, Luke Maynard,
Rutledge Dudley, Charlotte; Faith Dudley, Charlotte; Mae Orr, Charlotte; Martha D’Antignac, Augusta, Ga.; Polly Smith, Augusta; Isabel Baylor, High Point;
Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Laura Tillet, Charlotte; Hallie Fox, Converse.

Pi Kappa Alpha
Louisa Howard, Atlanta; Rock Hill, S. C.; Evelyn Rogers, Lumberton; Nancy Tyree, Winston-Salem; Alice Buchanan, Charlotte; “Piggy” Newell, Greensboro; Ada
Faulkner, Abbeville, S. C.; Margaret Taliaferro, Charlotte; Chris Harbour, Marion, S. C.; Menira Hoone, Dallas, Tex.; Jenny Mae Henry, Gastonia;
Misses Rose Rentro, Salisbury; Misses Lee Mason, Gastonia; Margaret Charlotte; Pete Skelding, Charlotte.

Phi Gamma Delta
Frances Shepherd, Converse; Mary Maslin, Winston-Salem; Mary Cooper, Queens; Kathleen Brown, Queens; Elizabeth Wilkinson, Winston-Salem; Alice Dunklee, Winston-Salem; Nell Marsh,
Charlotte; Frances Woods, Kannapolis.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Misses Mame Thomas, Converse; Katherine Gregory, Greensboro; Lib Simpson, Converse; Willie White, Concord; Tubby Klingman, Converse; Charlotte Milstead,Charlotte; Virginia Ried,
Concord; Lib Anderson, Converse; Nancy Mathews, Converse; Katherine Kale, Lexington; Lyall Wanamaker, Converse; Louise Morris, Concord; Dot Burney, Converse.

Pi Kappa Phi
Misses Louise Stevens, Charlotte; Dorothy Aiken, Charlotte; Pauline Barkley, Charlotte; Regina Horn, Statesville; Dorothy Hagood, Aynor; Daisy China, Winthrop; Sarah
Kinkaid, Statesville.

Theta Upsilon Omega
Evelyn Martin, Florence, Ala.; Anna Dubose, Sanford, Fla.; Louise Garibaldi, Charlotte; Nina Holt White, Davidson; Mable Huston McFall, Columbia, Tenn.;
Ruth Lowrance, Statesville; Aline Sehorn, Charlotte; Annie Barton McFall, Columbia, Tenn.; Mildred Biggers, Charlotte; Jane Menzies, Hickory; Ruth Muir, Greensboro;
Ruth Hatch, Hickory; Ruth Mundie, Gastonia; Burt Patterson, Albemarle.

43—A negative connective.
Pyramid
44—A vessel of sheet metal made in various shapes.
Althea Backenstoe, Salem College; Anita Wharton, Queens College; Elizabeth Wharton, Queens College; Lillian Rogers, Queens College; Edith Dudley, Queens College.

DAVIDSON AND THE DURHAM ELKS
(Continued from page 1)

At the end of the first half, the Davidson team was trailing the Durham team, the score being 22 to
14. During the second half, the Elks scored 27 points, while the Wildcats were gathering 19. Laird and Anderson were
tied for first honors in scoring for Davidson, each one scoring 12 points, while Perry scored 15 points for the
Elks, being closely followed by Heflin, with 14.

The line-up:
Davidson. Position. Durham Elks.
Beall (4) Right forward Starling (9)
Laird (0) Left forward Perry (15)
Anderson (12) Center Newton
McConnell Right Guard Heflin (14)
Boggs (1) Left Guard Montgomery (6)

Substitutions: Staley for Beall; Hewlett for Beall; Hewlett for Boggs; Borland for Starling; Mangum for Newton; Borland for Mangum; Newton
for Montgomery; Mangum for Newton.

Several deputations were sent out by the various religious organizations on the campus this week. They were all successful, large
crowds being in attendance. A. M. Martin went to Morganton on Friday and held meetings on both that day and
Saturday. He spoke to the high school and grammar-school boys, and on Saturday morning took them on a hike. Martin
reported his deputation as being successful.

The Greater Charlotte, N. C.

"BOYS!" When in Statesville, why not make headquarters at WALTER CULBRETH CO. VANCE HOTEL CIGAR STORE

JUST THE THINGS FOR Hobnailed Shoes, Army Breeches, Sox, Cotton or Wool Shirts
Army Salvage Company Statesville, N. C.

WE ARE... MOORE'S BICYCLE SHOP
Dealer in Sporting Goods, Columbia and Emblem Bicycles
Witch Elk Football Shoes $7.00, now $5.00
D. & M. Sweaters $16.00, now $12.00

The Wake Forest team defeated the Wildcats on Wednesday night by the score of 48 to 36. At the end
of the first half, the Wildcats were leading by one point, the score being 21 to 20, chiefly through the
work of Staley, who scored 14 points in this half. They were not able to hold the lead during the
second half, as Wake Forest scored 27 points to 15 for Davidson. Staley was the high point man of the
game, getting 16 points during the game. The whole Wake Forest team shot well, not a man getting less than
eight points to his credit, while two of them gathered in 11 points. It was due to the superior work
in the second half that the Wake Forest team was able to win.

The line-up follows:
Davidson. Position. Wake Forest.
Staley (16) Right forward Emmerson (8)
Laird (9) Left forward Greason (11)
Anderson (6) Center Daniel (10)
McConnell (5) Right guard Ober (11)
Boggs Left guard Pegamo (8)

Substitutions: Hewlett for Laird.

WILDCAT MATMEN WIN
(Continued from page 1)

Barrington put up a plucky fight in the 125 class and showed that experience was all that was lacking.

Summary:
115 pounds—Slaven (Navy) and Frierson wrestled to a draw but Slaven got 20 seconds advantage in an extended period.
125 pounds—Leeper (Navy) threw Barrington in 3 minutes 50 seconds with a bar and chancery hold.
135 pounds—Kreshner (Navy) won decision over W. D. Cox with a time advantage of 8 minutes 30 seconds.
145 pounds—Dyson (Navy) threw Phil Cox in 1 minute and 36 seconds with double bar hold.
158 pounds—Smith (Navy) won a time decision of 1 minute 18 seconds over Captain Patterson.
Light heavyweight—Littig (Navy) won a time advantage over Vance of 7 minutes 59 seconds.
Unlimited—Edwards (Navy) threw Laws in one minute 18 seconds with a double armlock.
