THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925

————

ALUMNI NOTES

Professor C. R. Wilcox, ’11, headmaster of Darlington School, Rome, Ga., was on the campus Saturday and Sunday in the
interest of his school. Prof. Wilcox was the organizer of the present student government at Davidson.

Mr. S. H. Askew, ’20, a member of the faculty of Darlington School, spent Friday night, April 24, at the
Maxwell-Chambers Hotel. Mr. Askew was accompanied by Mrs. Askew.

James Sprunt, '22, was ordained as a pastor in the Presbyterian Church at the meeting of the Charleston Presbytery in
Charleston on April 24.

Rev. W. M. Fairley, '05, pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Texarkana, Tex., has moved to Raeford, to take up
his new charge.

Dr. W. L. Lingle, '93, will not be able to attend the commencement exercises this year as he and his
wife will spend the month of June in England.

Rev. and Mrs. E. Harrison Hamilton, '17, missionaries to China, announce that a new member to the family has recently
arrived. The baby has been named Bobby. Reverend and Mrs. Hamilton spent Sunday in Davidson. They are in America on
a furlough after spending seven years in China mission service.

Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH
Lynch’s Pharmacy, Inc.
201 North Tryon St.

Edgar Woods, ‘19, and Robert T. L. Liston, '20, both of Davidson, are the high honor men at Union Theological
Seminary for this year. Thereby they win the Moses D. Hodge and Charles D. Larus fellowships. Besides these two men,
the following Davidson graduates are in the Senior class at Union this year: B. B. Breitenhirt, '22; C. G. Brown,
'22; L. G. Calhoun, '20; D. M. Chalmers, '20; W. E. Crane, '22; J. I. Knight, '19; C. Long, '21;
W. M. McCleod, '22; F. Manning, '21; A. Mitchell, '21; W. W. Moore, '20; G. Parks, '22; H. Poole, '22;
J. Sprunt, '22; A. Summers, '22; and J. Walker, '21.

John K. Prince, '22, is with Estabrook & Co., Investment Bankers, at Boston, Mass. His address is 33 Bay State
Rd., Boston, Mass., care Kappa Sigma House.

J. A. Marvin, ex-'22, is an assistant in the Chemistry Department at The Boston School of Technology.

D. W. McKellar, '24, is studying architecture at The Boston School of Technology. His address is 583 Beacon St., Boston,
Mass.

Bill Ramscur, ex-'25, is at The Boston School of Technology. His address is 363 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

A. C. Ormond, '22, is a second-year medical student at The Harvard University Medical School.

CIGARS

R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE NONE TOO SMALL

I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

A. Franklin Fricker, ’21, has completed his work at The Boston School of Technology and will receive his B.S. degree
in June. He has joined the organization of The Portland Cement Association as a field engineer, with headquarters at Norfolk,
Va.

J. H. Richards, Valedictorian of the class of '22 at Davidson, is now completing his second year of residence as
a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford. His work is in Christ Church College in that university. This college reported at the
end of the first term this year to the Secretary of the Rhodes Trustees that Richards will do credit to
the College, while the Dean of the college describes him, along with two or three others, as “exceptionally promising.” Reports
on all American Rhodes Scholars are made at frequent intervals to President Aydelotte of Swarthmore College, Pa., who is at
the head of the Rhodes Foundation interests in the United States. All who knew the record of Richards while at
Davidson were sure in advance that he would be an outstanding man as regards scholarly work at Oxford.

WE LIKE THESE

The Davidsonian staff understands the work behind the editing of a paper and how much the staff enjoys it when
something like this comes in:

Philadelphia, Pa.
April 23, 1925.

Dear Editor:

Have just finished reading the most interesting editorial page that it has ever been my privilege to peruse in the
Davidsonian, that being from your initial issue of the 9th. Somewhat late, I agree, but even at that I want
to take the opportunity to commend and encourage your ideas and attitude.

If every editorial page is as brimful of well-written material as that one, nothing but success can attend your efforts.
Here’s looking forward to your maintaining the decided individuality in your editorial “The Open Road,” for individuality is the primary
need of that column; not to have a yellow sheet but onealways stands for the truth, uplifting the constructive thoughts
of the writer himself, and not the battered conception of every wind that blows on the campus. Undoubtedly at times
the cards will be stacked against you, but such a policy will win at the end, resulting in the best
college publication in the South. Don’t be afraid to buck the whole campus if you think you are right. As
for the front page, it was balanced off like “a million dollars.” Your Editors seem to know their stuff. Again,
accept my compliments.

Cordially yours,
WIGGS BRADFORD, '24

The Triennial meeting of the National Council of the United Chapters of the Phi Beta Kappa, honorary fraternity, will be
held in New York, September the eighth through the tenth. The newly appointed delegates from the Davidson Chapter, who will
be present, are: Dr. Lingle and J. M. McConnell, Dr. T. L. EYEUEE ACA NCONGNOING ORONO IEEE TEE.

“STYLES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN”

WE INVITE YOUR INSPECTION OF New Shades, New Weaves, and New Patterns

WHOLESALE CUSTOM TAILORS “WHERE THE STYLES START FROM” FROM OUR SHOPS DIRECT TO YOU. SAVES THE MIDDLEMAN’S PROFITS

To Order $29.50

TWO 7a IAMAmAn ‘itvaNttvex aNiiTaNiteNiITeNit/aVit@ViteNit/@\itavii7evin

Varied Program Drawn Up for Blue Ridge Meet

Many Noted Religious Workers Will be on Hand for Student Conferences

According to the reports of the leaders in charge of the Blue Ridge Conference, the gathering this year will present
the most varied program of recent years. The dates for the conference are June 16 to 25. Many of the
religious leaders of the country will be on the program. Among these will be several men known to Davidson students,
which no doubt will prove to be an additional inducement to the local men. Dr. John R. Mott, for ten
years general secretary of the Y. M. C. A. in America, and Dr. Robert E. Speer, president of the Federal
Council of Churches of America and also the holder of the office of Secretary-Treasurer of the Board of Foreign Missions,
are scheduled to be the headliners of the conference. Davidson men who attended these meetings last year will remember Mr.
Kirby Page and his talks on the war. Mr. Page, who is to return again this year, is an authority
on international relations, yet to world fame. Included in the list of speakers to be announced are men of leaders
in their line of endeavor. Davidson has always been well represented at this gathering, last year having eight men in
attendance and this summer it is assured that we will have no less than ten men. Blue Ridge is situated
16 miles from Asheville, in the heart of the mountains of western North Carolina. The several sports that the visitors
will have the privilege of indulging in are: hiking, swimming, tennis, and horseback riding. Mr. Williams, the local secretary of
the “Y,” has made a very generous offer in connection with this conference. He has stated that he is willing
to pay the railroad fare for the first ten men who sign up for this gathering. This offer for the
railroad fare holds good to and from Blue Ridge. The expenses of a man at Blue Ridge will not amount
to more than $25 plus the registration fee, which is about $3. Those who are interested in taking advantage of
this chance to have a good time, to come in closer contact with religious leaders, and to know college men
from all over the South can get the desired information from any member of the “Y” council. A. Y. Bowie
is chairman of the Blue Ridge Committee and is ready to sign up those who are in a position to
make their decision now.

COSTUMES

Wigs and Make-up for School and College Plays and Pageants Special Rental Rates

VAN HORN & SON 921 Walnut St. PHILA., PENNA.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING Charlotte, N.C.

The only person who does not need automobile insurance is the person who does not own a car.

McALISTER CARSON, Mgr. Trust Company Insurance Department Charlotte, N. C.

Belk Bros. Co. CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Are offering some exceptional values in College Men’s Suits with one and two pairs of Pants, made in this season’s
newest models and colors on sale at $19.95, $25.00, $29.50, $35.00, and $39.50. Would pay you to come to Charlotte
and see them. BELK BROS.
