THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1925

——

“Y” Cabinet on Retreat

Famous Moravian Plans for Work of Year

Retreat Proves Successful in Bringing Cabinet Members Into Closer Contact

The Cabinet of the Y. M. C. A., with A. M. Hillhouse, “Y” Secretary, spent last Friday night and Saturday morning on a retreat making further plans for the work of the year. The retreat was successful in bringing the Cabinet into a closer personal relationship with each other, as well as a means of studying the religious problems of the campus. Definite plans were made in regard to securing speakers for both fall and spring meetings. These services are always of great value to the student body, and the Y is making an effort to secure the best possible leaders for these meetings. The work of each member of the Cabinet was discussed at length and many suggestions were made with regard to improving all phases of the work this year. Each of the men on the Cabinet is busy organizing his particular department. The Y hopes to get as many men as possible actively engaged in the work on the campus and to spread its work as far out as it can. At the Saturday morning meeting Dr. Arbuckle was present and spoke to the men concerning the opportunity before them. With definite plans made and the active support of the students, this year should be a successful one in the religious life of the college.

Miss Lucy Martin Currie has recovered from her illness.

Divine to Speak at “Y” Services

The Y. M. C. A. has succeeded in securing Bishop Rondthaler of Winston-Salem to address the students at the “Y” vesper service next Sunday night, September 27th. Those men of the upper classes who heard Bishop Rondthaler last fall, on the occasion of his last visit to Davidson campus, will remember the splendid crowd which greeted him, and the inspiring address which he delivered. Dr. Rondthaler is one of the most widely known and universally respected men to appear at any Davidson meeting. He is one of the foremost leaders in the Moravian Church, and the father of the president of Salem College. A large attendance is predicted for the vesper service next Sunday.

Miss Nancy Gray, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Gray, left the first of last week to assume her duties as Director of Music in the Marion, N. C., school.

Misses Catherine Porter, Ruth Johnson, and Sara Barnette have matriculated at the Carolina College for Women at Greensboro.

We have with us Mrs. Fannie Burton Watson of Arkansas, who has begun a class in music.

Prof. W. W. Wood and family returned this week from their vacation and are occupying their home.

M. B. MAYHEWS

MAYHEWS

I. FRONTIS CLEANERS AND DYERS

College Reps. Plants

Chas. Bragaw, 15 N. B. Mooresville Ph. 240

I. Frontis, 18 Ga. Davidson Ph. 82-J

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST

OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

YOUR APPEARANCE is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times. Next to Postal Telegraph

LET US ASSIST YOU.

THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP

Statesville, N. C.

P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS

VICTROLAS

RECORDS AND ROLLS

ANDREW MUSIC STORE

Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments

SHEET MUSIC

‘OLDEST IN THE STATE

213 N. Tryon St.

DAVIDSON WILDCATS WIN

(Continued from page 1)

limelight. But Saturday sent him back, and back with a bang, as he got off with a 50-yard runback of a punt for a touchdown, a 34-yard race around right end, and several other gains in addition to the opening one already mentioned. After Wells, usually a sure back, had fumbled the ball, and Elon had recovered on the 25-yard line, the Christians chose to punt. Red Anderson, who played the best game in the Davidson line, went tearing into the kick, which rebounded toward Davidson's left end. Bohannon grabbed the ball up, and as Joe McConnell sent the last Elon back sprawling on the ground, raced across the goal line for the first touchdown. Laird kicked the goal. Davidson 7, Elon 0. Elon kicked again, and then Davidson began its great march to the goal line. It was Captain Black whom Sappenfield sent smashing into the Christian line for 12 of the next 14 consecutive plays. Carrying the ball for 51 yards, while Wells accounted for 10, the Davidson leader finally placed it over the goal line. Laird kicked another placement. Davidson 14, Elon 0. After Davidson had kicked and Elon returned with a punt, Grey took the ball for another run around right end, running out of bounds after a gain of 34 yards. The next

CHARLOTTE PASTOR TALKS

(Continued from page 1)

mire conviction whether they hold the same conviction. Paul set the example for young men who will live life at its best. He had a faith and he boldly stated to the world what he believed. Young men are prone to neglect religion. Eighty-five per cent of the young men in the United States are not church members; 90 per cent of those who belong to the church do not attend and only 25 per cent of those who do attend do so with the sincere purpose of worshipping Christ. These were some of the startling statements the speaker quoted from a current author. Doctor Johnson continued, young men are subject to go through a period of skepticism. Skepticism is, however, weakening and leads to sin. Youths need education but this is not all important. An educated pickpocket becomes a forger of checks. Youths need first Christ who will keep them from sin. The history of great men shows that a great many

Blue Pencil Club Elects Five Men for Membership

At its regular meeting on Monday night, the Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon elected five Seniors to membership: H. L. Shaw, R. W. Graves, T. C. Barr, W. E. Milton, and W. H. Allison. Each of these men has demonstrated extraordinary brilliancy and versatility in the literary arts, and justly merits his bid to Sigma Upsilon, which is the highest literary honor awarded to Davidson undergraduates. Sigma Upsilon is a national fraternity, including in its membership chapters in more than thirty leading American Colleges and Universities. The present membership of the local chapter is comprised of four members of the class of ’26, S. W. Brown, C. F. Monk, R. B. Parker, and C. F. Smith.Play brought the fatal Sappenfield accident. Of them, many have been Christians. Christianity calls for the best that is in men. In conclusion, the speaker asked four questions which every man should ask himself about Christianity. The first was: “Does it make us better men?” Some religions do not. He cited an incident of a Mexican who had murdered a man in cold blood in order to get his lunch. The lunch contained meat, and since it was Friday, the murderer refused to eat it. His religion kept him from doing this, but did not keep him from taking the life of his neighbor. Christ does make people better, Doctor Johnson said, and cited as examples the woman at the well in Samaria along with other illustrations.

“Does it satisfy the highest demands of your conscience?” was the second question. In answering this, he showed that the Christian religion does not allow any action which is contrary to the will of God or to the individual conscience. The third question was: “Will it stand the test of the dying hour?” Multitudes of examples are known of Christians willing to die when their time had come, and who passed over the great divide calmly, peacefully, and happily. “Will it stand the test of God's Word?” was the last question. Christianity is based absolutely on the Bible and has no place for hypocrisy or self-conscious piety. As a last word to the students, Doctor Johnson urged them to continue in the faith, for he said through it would be gained power, peace, and grace which would remain.

After the ball was placed on the 11-yard line, Hewlett let Black run twice again, the quarter ending with the ball on Elon’s four-yard line and first down.

Second Quarter
The second team went in, and on the third play, McComb took the ball over for his first collegiate touchdown. Overton kicked the goal. Davidson now leading, 21-0. The remainder of the quarter was uneventful, except that Elon made its first down when Harrell went around left end for nine yards after gaining one through center.

Third Quarter
Davidson took an offside penalty on the kick-off, and then Kelly ran the ball back 15 yards to the 35-yard line. Elon was penalized half the distance to the goal line. When they punted, Dick Grey grabbed the ball on his 50-yard line and ran down the east side for another touchdown. Laird kicked again. Davidson 28, Elon 0. For the second time during the game, Grey kicked into the last five-yard space on the kick-off. After some exchanging of punts and fumbles, Black intercepted the first pass of the game on Davidson's 33-yard line. Then began another great offense. Hendrix took one off right tackle; Overton went around the same end for 12 and first down; Grey repeated for 11 and another first; Hendrix took the ball around the other side for nine, and Grey made it first down. Overton went out on the 29-yard line, and then made one over right tackle. Then he smashed off right tackle for 26 yards and a touchdown. Grey's place-kick went short. Davidson 34, Elon 0.

Third Quarter
On the opening play, Hewlett made first down through the center of the line. Overton made another over right tackle. Melton and Hewlett scratched through the tackles again, but on the third play, Melton fumbled, Elon recovering on her own 33-yard line. The Christians began a smashing attack through the line, carrying the ball for two first downs, only to be stopped when Piggy Wearn spilled a reverse play for a five-yard loss. Elon punted over the goal line. Davidson made fifteen but was penalized 25 yards. Elon made two passes good for 27 yards, for the first time entering Davidson's territory. Another pass put the ball on the four-yard line. The next one was grounded by Overton. Then came the whistle. The whole Davidson line that started showed up well, with Red Anderson probably doing the best work. In the backfield, Black, Grey, and Overton ran well, while Sappenfield and Hendrix showed great generalship. Hewlett was a flash of speed, a bit too fast for his interference.

Line-up and summary:
Pinkney L. E. Browne
Waird L. T. Sails
Wance L. G. Alexander
McConnell C. McCauley
Baker R. G. Foster
Anderson R. T. Wilson
Bohannon R. E. Byerly
Sappenfield Q. Kirkland
Wells L. H. Harrell
Gorrins R. H. Valarie
F. B.

Score by quarters:
Davidson 14 7 13 0—34
Elon 0 0 0 0—0

Substitutions—For Davidson: Hewlett, Overton, McComb, Leggette, Arrowood, Hendrix, Wearn, Harrison, McEachern, Richie, Lincoln, McNeil, Mitchell, Grey, J. Melton, Mauldin. Second team went in for first; later first for second; then second for first. For Elon: Roundtree, Cox, Beck, Newman, Richardson, Brawley, Kelly. Scoring touchdowns: Bohannon, Black, McComb, Grey, Overton. Place kicks after touchdowns: Laird (3), Overton, Grey (failed). Referee: Sampson (St. Albans); umpire: Hartsell (N. C. State); headlinesman: Major (Clemson); attendance: 3,000.

MUTT NISBET (Continued from page 1)
Arrowood was also a member of the Fresh football team last year, being one of the star ends of the state. He also showed up well at first base on the Frosh nine last spring. In the student body elections last spring, he was chosen as secretary and treasurer of the Athletic Association. Arrowood is from Shelby, N. C., and is a member of the Delta Theta Chi fraternity.

Miss Mary Richards, who is teaching in the High School of Mebane, N. C., spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION
We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest.
The Sanitary Cafe
Next door to Artcraft Theatre
Mooresville, N. C.