THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

STUDENTS REFUSE TO ACCEPT
(Continued from page 1)

cron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity and holding several other positions of prominence on the campus. His eagerness to resign to
prevent further friction is most commendable and is further proven by the action of the student body.

TO KISSES
I call my sweetie CAFETERIA. She helps herself.

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop, 202 S. Church St.

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some
and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VAPORUB
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

Probably one reason for the popularity of WRIGLEY’S is that it lasts so long and returns such great dividends for
so small an outlay. It keeps teeth clean, breath sweet, appetite keen, digestion good. Fresh and full-flavored always in its
wax-wrapped package.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

FELLOWS!!!
We have several new Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

A wise man knows he is acting foolish if he falls in love this close to Christmas.

Fresh McQueen thinks N.-C. C. W. is the name of a railroad, somebody please tell him better—we haven't the heart.

Many a girl looks sweet on the outside—so does a sugar-coated pill.

RAZZ BERRIES!
Charlie McRae says that his idea of the softest job in the world would be trying to prevent rivers from
flowing up Pike's Peak.

A doctor in Charlotte was once asked if he had ever made a mistake. He replied by saying he once
cured a millionaire in three visits.

Red McAlpine is being good until after Christmas as he wants Santa to be sure to visit him. He has
even quit smoking 5 cent cigars until the first of the year.

A. H. Hollingsworth (at Trough) — “Come here, butter, everybody knows you are old enough to walk.”

“But if I kiss you this time, no one will be the wiser.”
“Oh yes they will.”
“Who?”
“You will next time.”

Shoe Clerk—“What size do you wear, madam?”
Customer—“How dare you tempt me to lie?”

“Is there an art in kissing?”
“The only art is, ‘art thou willing’?”

No, Celia, a girl and a traffic cop are not alike, for a cop means STOP when he says it.

“Now, Ikey, you tell vun, I vant to varm my hands.”

Girls look short in knickers, but men look longer.

“Tom, go fetch the old horse.”
“Why the old one, father?”
“Wear out the old ones first, that’s my motto.”
“Well, then, father, you fetch the horse.”

“Hello, central. Is this Information?”
“Yes.”
“Well, I wish you would please tell me what the Governor of North Carolina said to the Governor of South
Carolina.”

“I feel myself sliding,” said the trombone as MacRae struck a long note.

TO CHRISTMAS
We will all now rise and sing verse 16 of the “Good Old Ship of Zion,” entitled, “We'll all get
drunk and happy when she comes.”

WHY IS IT
That even though you won't get home for the holidays until the 23rd or the 24th, that between the time
the conductor calls out your home town station and the time for Santa to come you will meet every flame
that you ever made love to; But worse than that, there will be one of those ‘I'm expecting a gift
from you’ looks in her eyes. I ask you again, Why is it?

SANTA CLAUS.

YOU TELL ’EM, PATSY, I CAN’T
An old cake-eater can live for seventy-five years on delicatessen food, but, big boy, it takes a two-fisted, triple threat,
stone-crushing, likker-drinking HE man tobe able to answer ‘here’ in class after spending three or four years with his feet
slung under a boarding-house tablecloth.

JANUARY 5TH

Gather your kisses while you may—
Time brings only sorrow.
You'll be having a date with your girl today,
And answering, “present” tomorrow.

MORE TRUTH THAN BULL

Prof.— “Love is blind. Mr. Patterson, what kind of love is that?”
Seedy— “That’s puppy love, sir.”

“Please! Just one more kiss before I leave.”
“All right, but you'll have to hurry, Father will be home in about an hour.”

“Is your Packard friend coming tonight?”
“No, this is Willys-Knight.”

“What are you going to get for Christmas?”
“Have you ever seen a buckskin billfold full of twenty dollar bills?”
“Yeah.”
“Well, I MAY get a folder.”

Dreamy music,
Chilly air,
Teasing eyes,
Wavy hair,
A seat in the parlor
Just built for two;
Cherry lips;
What else could I do?

Reporters’ Club Elects Four Neophytes to Ranks

Lingle, Gwin, Sparrow, and Jones Win Places in Journalistic Club

At the regular weekly meeting of the Reporters’ Club last Friday night, December 11, four men were voted into membership
as a reward for their diligent work on The Davidsonian this year. The four men thus honored were W. L.
Lingle and J. W. Gwin, of the Sophomore class; and A. M. Sparrow and T. T. Jones, of the Junior
class. These men were selected out of a wide field of candidates, all of whom have been doing excellent work
but the four men elected excelled in the work.

The Reporters’ Club elects members twice yearly, those elected in the fall all consisting of upperclassmen, while at the annual
spring elections some eight or ten Freshmen are chosen. These Freshmen are usually highly honored as they have to be
picked out of a group of some 50 or 60 all working hard for this honor. The public initiation of
the new men will take place the last three days of this week and at the “movie” on Saturday night.

ROBERT FRANKLIN DAVIDSON
(Continued from page 1)

scholars remain three years, and the elections are so arranged that 32 scholars go to Oxford each year. The amount
from the Rhodes fund has recently increased to 400 pounds sterling or approximately $2,000 a year. No restrictions are placed
on the choice of study. In each state there is a committee of selection, composed, except for the chairman, of
former Rhodes Scholars, which has the responsibility of making the selection each year. Rhodes Scholars are elected, without examination, on
the basis of their record in school and college. Special reference is given to:
(1) Literary and scholastic ability.
(2) Qualities of manhood, character, public spirit, and leadership.
(3) Physical activity as shown by interest in outdoor sports and athletics in general.

In addition to the 96 scholars from the United States, the board of trustees in London maintains 90 Rhodes Scholars
at Oxford from the British dominions. Rhodes Scholars appointed in the recent election will enter the University of Oxford in
October, 1926. In addition to the scholars selected from the various states in the regular manner, there will this year
be one other elected early in January from the country at large.

YOU'LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE

Weekly Programme

Thurs. and Fri., Dec. 17, 18--- “Never the Twain Shall Meet,” with Anita Stewart and Burt Lytell.
Mon. and Tues., Dec. 21, 22 ---“Lights of Old Broadway,” with Marion Davies and Conrad Nagel.
Wed., Dec. 23---“Pride of Sunshine Alley,” with McDonald.
Thurs. and Fri., Dec. 24, 25 ---“Paths to Paradise,” and Christmas reel, “Bethlehem.”
Coming: Dec. 31, Jan. 1--- “Passion Play of the Life of Christ.”

DAVIDSON, N. C.

Special Christmas

distinctive for those who love

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
