THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

Town News

On last Friday afternoon, in the hotel parlor, was held the bi-monthly meeting of the Young Matrons’ Club. The program,
one of the best that has been rendered for some months, was thoroughly enjoyed by all. Prof. Carl Wachter, the
speaker of the afternoon, gave a splendid talk on Henry Van Dyke and the Short Story. Delicious refreshments were served.

The Thelemite Club was delightfully entertained by Mrs. Fleagle with a charming George Washington party.

Miss Margaret Adams spent the week-end in Rock Hill visiting friends.

The friends of Mrs. Vincent will regret to hear that she is ill with influenza.

Miss Mary Richards spent the week-end in Winston-Salem visiting with friends.

Miss Sarah Caldwell entertained Parker, of Salisbury, this week-end.

The As You Like It Club will meet Friday at the home of Mrs. Hunter. The program will be An
Evening With Burns and Scott.

The Book Lovers’ Club spent an interesting afternoon at the home of Mrs. T. W. Lingle last Thursday. Mrs. James
Currie and Miss Shaw read instructive and interesting papers on Pupine, The Inventor.

Mrs. W. R. Grey returned on Monday from Asheville, where she had been visiting her daughter, Mrs. Romefelt.

Long's Sanitarium is again the temporary home of another of Davidson's citizens. Miss Mary Black has undergone an operation there
and is now convalescing.

The many friends of Mrs. Dougherity will regret to hear that she has been ill with influenza.

Mrs. Anderson, the mother of Charles Anderson, who is in the infirmary with pneumonia, arrived in Davidson this past week.

DR. CLEGG SWAYS VESPER AUDIENCE
(Continued from page 1)

A flash of lightning between two clouds is explained as being caused by the attraction of two opposite electrical charges
for each other. The affinity of the infinite for the finite and vice versa corresponds to these changes. God attracts
men, and man is feeling for God, trying to find out what He is. Conscience is known to exist in
the minds of men, but it cannot be accounted for except through God. It is through conscience, then, that man
experiences the relationship with God. Something within says, “I ought,” then “I must.” Finally, the man says, “I will,” and
then goes forth to conquer in the fields of art, religion, and science. Conscience is only explained when the spirituality
outside ourselves is recognized.

A third way of bringing about this relationship is through a sense of beauty. It has been said that beauty
is a joy forever. Keats, the great English poet, said, “Truth is beauty and beauty is truth.”

The fourth, and possibly the most effective means of experiencing a relationship with God is through direct communion and fellowship.
Moses talked with God; Paul talked with Christ on the road to Damascus and again when his ship was tossed
by a storm in the Mediterranean Sea, and, as a result, the ship was saved. David Livingstone, in the heart
of Africa, lived close to God and had a consciousness of God's presence. The man who has communion and fellowship
with God has a relationship and experience that the man who does not commune with God can know nothing of.
This may be illustrated by the case of the man who goes to the top of a mountain and looks
out over the country. Things are unfolded to him there that cannot be conceived by the man who stays at
the foot of the mountain.

The speaker concluded his talk by saying that all true literature, all lasting literature, in whatever field—art, religion, or science—is
the mind of God being expressed through the minds of men. Only through God can man accomplish anything lasting.

The song service preceding the address was led by Joe Garrison, and a special song was furnished by the quartet,
composed of Piggy Martin, Woodrow Wilson, Malcolm Lockhart, and Lowrance.

LIVELY INTEREST SHOWN
(Continued from page 1)

220-yard low hurdles—A. D. Malloy, A. E. Grey, and R. B. Arthur. (30:8).
Shot put—J. W. Mellon, R. L. Lincoln, and C. A. Long. (32 ft. 9¼ in.)
Pole vault—H. Bohannon, W. I. Howell, and N. G. Patterson. (9 ft.)
High jump—H. G. Goodykoontz, Evans, and J. W. Melton. (5 ft. 5 in.)
Discus throw—E. R. A. Brand (139 ft. 11½ in.)
Javelin throw—A. E. Grey, L. P. Cox, and W. H. Jennings. (97 ft. 1 in.)

WARREN’S Of Philadelphia
JACK CUNNINGHAM Representative
Showing a Complete Line of Woolens
Suits $35.00 Up. Special Tuxedos $40 Up
Beautiful assortment Neckwear in popular colors
Remember the time and place---
MONDAY, MARCH 23rd
103 WEST

Mrs. Reid left on Monday for a visit of a few weeks to her former home in Oklahoma.

Who Knows?

That, in the football season of 1918, Davidson won from Auburn, 21-7; and the Atlanta Constitution of that date, in
giving an account of the game, had the following account of the playing of one of the Davidson stars: “Flowers,
the 17-year-old Davidson halfback, is one of the South’s most brilliant players. Despite his light weight, 140 pounds to be
exact, he is a fierce tackler, a good line smasher, a brilliant punter, and broken field runner. All in all,
he is one of the best halves the South has seen in many a day.” This was none other than
the famous Buck Flowers who was picked by Walter Camp on his all-American team. He came from the same place
as Pat Crawford of baseball fame. In the same year, the Davidson team frocked Clemson, 21-9; Wake Forest, 73-7; Wofford,
63-0; and V. M. I., 23-7.

That, manual labor was once in vogue at Davidson but it was discontinued because the boys broke up the tools
so fast that it was too heavy a drain on the college to replace them.

That, back in the time when whiskey was plentiful, a freight train with a solid carload of the choicest liquors
was derailed near Mt. Mourne. Some of the students brought some of it back with them and came near allowing
one of the faculty members to catch them with it in their possession. According to some information, part of the
loot was thrown into one of the columns of old Chambers.

That the Davidson College Monthly, the forerunner of the present magazine, had this paragraph on the evils of dormitory life
in regard to young boys: “He becomes indifferent to the requirements of social life, his sensations are blunted, his tastes
become coarse and unrefined, his manners brusque and unpolished, and he not only becomes careless of his own self-respect, but
he loses to a great extent that appreciation for woman and her influences, which are so important in the complete
development of character.”"rounded character." in ty] % That, the name of the medical school, which used to be at Davidson
ran under the name of The North Carolina Medical College, and was under the direction of Dr. J. P. Munroe.
That, the idea that atoms are small worlds in themselves is by no means new. In the year 1895, a
Davidson student wrote an article on the subject of "Are the Molecules Inhabited?" That, Kenneth Joseph Foreman was Editor-in-Chief of
Davidson College Magazine for the scholastic year 1910-11. That, the prize oration, as printed in the Magazine that year, was
on the subject of Islam, and was written by M. Mar Yosip. This oration treated the growth of Islam, the
earnestness of the Islamites in the spread of their religion, and ended with a plea to supplant Mohammedanism with Christ.
That, this is not the first student generation that has been accused of wasting time and opportunities. The November 1910
issue of the magazine contained a fiery article on the subject of "Waste in Davidson College." That, the October issue
of the Magazine for 1910 contained an account of Dr. Wood. The article stated that Dr. Wood entered Davidson in
1836, when Davidson was founded, and graduated with the class of 1840. He had been engaged in the practice of
medicine in his native community for sixty years. That, the Magazine celebrated its twenty-fifth anniversary in 1910-11, and contained letters
from former editors of the Magazine. Among those who wrote to the editor at that time were Mr. C. E.
Hodgin, the father of C. E. Hodgin, Jr., class of '24, and Prof. A. Currie. Dr. Currie's letter was written
from New York. It was the longest in the list. That, the inhabitants of Mecklenburg County doubtless rose to arms
when there appeared a signed article in the Magazine on the subject "Is the Mecklenburg Declaration a Myth?" in the
Anniversary Edition.

Rising Sap Ushers In Barnyard Golfing Game

All Students Are Enthusiastic in Old-Style Sport—Red McComb Practices

With the arrival of spring, the "barnyard golf" season has started with a rush. Everywhere over the campus can be
heard the familiar clank of steel against steel, and fans are watching their favorites. Every available spot on the campus
that is suitable for the game is pressed into service. The game is open to all contestants, the only requirement
being that one has the patience to wait for his time to come around after "calling the winner." Horseshoe pitching
is among the oldest games on the Davidson campus, and there can be no better sign that spring is here
than to see the first games of this age-old sport started. One of the advantages of the game is the
fact that it takes only a short time to play it, and hence it fills up the time just before
meals and classes and also runs on into the night. There is a rumor about the campus that Red McComb,
after vanquishing all comers during the day, recently astonished his roommate, McCauley, and nearly decapitated that individual by attempting the
game on him in his sleep. McCauley was rudely awakened about midnight by several of Red's shoes dropping about his
head, and when he turned on the light, he was astonished to see Red on the opposite side of the
room calmly tossing his shoes in the general direction of Mac's pillow!

FRESHMEN FINALLY PRESENT SWEATERS

In accordance with their annual custom, the Freshman class presented the football lettermen with their sweaters, and these were awarded
to the men in chapel Tuesday morning, March 3. Prof. Carl Wachter made a short and impressive preliminary speech in
which he called attention to the significance of the black sweaters as a background for the red "D" thereon. John
Foster, president of the Freshman class, then came forward and presented the sweaters to the following men: C. M. Davis,
captain; R. E. Boggs, captain-elect; T. S. Baker, all-state end; E. H. Bohannon, J. F. Pinkney, S. W. Summers, G.
F. Laird, J. W. Anderson, H. L. Vance, W. A. McAuley, J. H. McConnell, N. E. Sappenfield, J. P. Hendrix,
W. M. Black, D. M. McComb, J. C. Hunt, J. M. Covington, W. H. Leggette, L. W. Wells, and A.
W. McAlister, manager.

CHRISTIAN ENDEAVORERS ENJOY SUNDAY PROGRAM

The Christian Endeavor Training class, with C. G. Davis as leader, discussed "Winning Souls for Christ." In carrying out the
program, a series of questions on the topic were answered. D. M. Calhoun told why we should save souls for
Christ. He showed that it was the duty and privilege of every Christian to win souls for Christ. F. K.
Forbes answered the question, "What is the Value of Knowing the Bible When Saving Souls for Christ?" In doing this,
he compared a Christian to a fisherman, showing that he must know the way to approach a person and to
act with him so that he may win him. The Importance of Being a Real Christian When Saving Souls for
Christ was discussed by C. F. McRae. He said that in order to have the power to save others, one
must live a Christian life himself; he must practice what he preaches. In comparing the method Christ used in saving
Nicodemus to that which He used in saving the woman of Samaria, Phillips showed that they were essentially alike. Copeland
told the method Christ used in winning Matthew, showing what unusual and sinful persons Christ is able to save.

The society discussed plans for the Christian Endeavor conference that is to be held in Charlotte this month. At this
conference, the young people's work will be discussed. The conference will last perhaps only one or two days, and it
is expected that several of the members of the Christian Endeavor Training class will attend this valuable meeting.

"Wood, I saw some of your people over in Charlotte the other day."
"How did you know they were my people?"
"One of them tried to bum a match off of me."
—Carolina Buccaneer.

Since 1868 THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no
feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that "I look all right." Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always
good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO.
CHARLOTTE

SHOES LUGGAGE

One question that always arises in the mind of every serious thinking college man is, "What am I going to
do after graduation or during vacation?" This is an important question, worthy of serious consideration. In a very definite way,
the life insurance business offers you the opportunity for success. In no field is there a greater chance for the
college man. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER PRESIDENT
H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.

CENTRAL Dyeing Largest 8 E. Trade St. and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection Oldest HAT SHOP
Pressing Best CHARLOTTE
