COMMENCEMENT

THE DAVIDSONIAN

ISSUED WEEKLY BY THE STUDENTS OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII E Published By the Senior Class No. 31

Class-Day Exercises Will be Featured by Orations and Presentation of Gift

Julian Briggs to Present Class Gift of Well Cover—Program to be Held Near Well

PURDY TO READ POEM

Simpson Delivers Salutatory—Martin, Oration—Wharton, Valedictory

The annual class day exercises are to take place at 5:30 o'clock, Monday afternoon, on the campus just east of the “well.” This is to follow the lawn party at which the members of the class are to be guests of Miss Goudyloch Erwin, the class mascot. Several features will mark the exercises as the program of the commencement period distinctively conducted by the Senior class. The presentation of the class gift will be made formally at this time. The gift of the class of 1925 is the new brick and concrete base and covering for the campus “well.” The marble fountain on the inside was the gift of the class of 1916, and this is being supplemented by the new structure of the covering. The architectural scheme was designed with a view to matching the new Chambers.

Three speeches will feature the program. A. F. Simpson was elected class Salutatorian, and will make a brief, and no doubt characteristic, address. He will be followed in turn by the class orator, A. M. (Piggy) Martin, and the valedictorian, D. B. Wharton.

(Continued on page 5)

Agnes Scott President Makes Literary Address

Dr. J. R. McCain to Speak Before Graduating Class and Friends Tuesday Morning

Davidson College and the Senior Class are fortunate in securing President J. R. McCain as the Annual Literary Addressee for the Commencement of 1925. This annual address will be delivered in Shearer Hall at 12:15 p.m., Tuesday, June 2nd. This occasion is one of the outstanding features of every commencement, and this year it seems reasonable that with the speaker who has been engaged the event will not fall short of those in past years, and furthermore bids fair as one of the very best Literary addresses that has been heard at Davidson College.

The speaker of the morning is President J. R. McCain, of Agnes Scott College, Decatur, Ga., a prominent figure in educational circles of the South. As President of Agnes Scott he has made a name for himself enviable in itself and attained by few. Agnes Scott College is the most outstanding girls’ college in the South, it is affiliated with the Southern Presbyterian Church, but is not under its control; being Presbyterian at heart it is the sister college to Davidson. By his personality and character Dr. McCain has placed himself at the head of this remarkable institution, and, as has already been intimated, he has advanced the college in many ways since his becoming President in 1923. President McCain has distinguished himself as an educator and writer, and has been particularly active in such work in the state.

(Continued on page 5)

Gamma Chapter Phi Beta Kappa Initiates Four

The spring initiation exercises of the Gamma of North Carolina Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa were held last Saturday night, May 30th. Four men of the class of 1925 were formally received into membership at this meeting, as follows: H. B. Price, D. B. Wharton, C. S. Furches, and W. C. Ramsey.

These four men bring the total student membership in the local chapter to seven, the other members, M. W. Trawick, W. W. Purdy, and A. T. Rowe, having been initiated last December. The Senior class has stood unusually high in scholastic average this year, and these men are among the highest of the class. Besides proving their intellectual ability, the recent initiates have shown themselves to be leaders in the activities of the campus. Harry Price has just finished a most successful term as president of the Y. M. C. A., and has captained the Wildcat tennis team this spring. Benton Wharton has distinguished himself in intercollegiate debating, besides doing much work in literary lines. Furches was a member of the “Y” cabinet, and served as faculty assistant for two years. Bill Ramsey served efficiently as “judge” during the past and was in charge of the Bible study groups conducted by the Y. M. C. A.

Miss Goudyloch Erwin, class mascot, entertained the Senior class, with their parents and friends, at a reception on the lawn of the Erwin home, from 4:00 to 5:00 this afternoon.

Eighty-three Seniors Receive Diplomas at Eighty-ninth Annual Commencementhad the honor of initiating Dr. Porter P. Vinson, of Rochester, Minn., and Miss Mary Reed Smith, of Asheville, N.C. Dr. Vinson, (Continued on page 3) session. Ice-cream and cakes embodying the gold of the class colors were served by Mrs. Erwin and the girls of the town. Favors were distributed to the members of the class and guests. An enjoyable time was had by all. Immediately after the reception, Julian Briggs, class president, took Miss Erwin to the Class Day exercises held on the campus near the well.

Katy Eller Dramatic Club Presents Three Plays Tonight

The Davidson College Dramatic Club, under the direction of Prof. E. J. Erwin, will present tonight three one-act plays written by students of the classes of '25 and '26. The plays have been carefully revised and gone over by Professor Erwin, and approved by him. One of the three plays was given at a private rehearsal before the Dramatic Club and the others have never been presented.

“Molly Too,” by Paul Freeland, is laid in a mountain home and portrays the life of the people there. “On With the Show,” by Fred Smith, is a story of the big tops and circus folk. “The Twain Meet,” by Hayden Hollingsworth, is a splendid story. All three authors are proficient, and the plays, with an able personnel as given below, should be thoroughly entertaining.

MOLLY TOO
By Paul Freeland
Molly Fler — Letitia Currie
Mary Thompson — Selina Miler
Hamp Eller — Johnsie Shelton
Lem Daney — Paul Freeland
Aospay — D. D. Wilson
Scene—A mountain home.

ON WITH THE SHOW
By Fred Smith
Smiley, a clown — Clanton Williams
Toto, a clown — Ed Whitlow
Ringmaster — Colin Murchison
Louise, a bare-back rider — Philip Cox
(Continued on page 7)

TWENTY-FIVE’S GIFT TO THE COLLEGE
Ben Ratchford — Simril Bryant

One Master’s Degree and Many Honorary Degrees to be Conferred
TRAWICK VALEDICTORIAN
Commencement to be Held in Church for First Time in History of College

Breaking a precedent set by many classes that have gone before, the class of 1925 will hold its graduating exercises in the church building instead of in old Shearer. At about 10 o'clock a.m. Wednesday morning, the class will assemble in front of the library and form for the march down the campus to the church. B.S. students will lead the column, A.B. men next, followed by the M.A. candidate. When the church is reached, the column will probably divide, one half entering on the left side, and the other on the right side to avoid confusion and to facilitate the seating. The candidates will be seated in the forward part of the middle section of pews. Owing to lack of space on the rostrum, all of the speakers will not be able to sit there, and some will be in the first row of seats in the audience. Immediately following the invocation, the award of college medals will be made. There will be two of these—the Biblical medal, and the freshman medal for high scholastic record. (Continued on page 3)

Drs. McAllister and Anderson Speak to Class
Former Preaches Baccalaureate Sermon—Latter Speaks Before Y.M.C.A. Sunday Night

The Eighty-Ninth Commencement of Davidson College began on Sunday, May 31, 1925, with the Baccalaureate Sermon, preached by Rev. J. G. McAllister, D.D., of Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky. The second event of commencement was the Annual Sermon before the Young Men's Christian Association, which was delivered by Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., of Savannah, Ga. Both of these sermons were held in the Davidson College Church, and attended by the Senior Class in a body, attired in caps and gowns. The speakers for these two occasions are outstanding in the Southern Presbyterian Church, and the College and the Senior Class were fortunate in securing them to speak on this occasion. Dr. McAllister is one of the leading theologians and educators of the South. He is now on the faculty of Louisville Theological Seminary, being Professor of Biblical Instruction, English Bible and Biblical Theology; however, recently he has accepted a call to Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., and will be in that institution next year. Dr. McAllister delivered the Baccalaureate Sermon Sunday morning at 11:00 a.m. Dr. Neal L. Anderson is pastor of the Independent Presbyterian Church, Savannah, Ga. He is one of the most popular (Continued on page 8)