4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association of Southern Collegiate Press Association
FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”
Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class
SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. L. D................................. Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. J.................................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. E. ..................................... Athletic Editor
R. B. ..................................... Associate Editor
A. Y. ..................................... Associate Editor
A. H. ..................................... Associate Editor
GARN...................................... Humorous Editor
............................................. Alumni Editor
............................................. Exchange Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE............................... Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH............................... Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES............................. Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER.......................... Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON....................... Subscription Manager
E. L. DOUGLASS........................... Assistant
JULIAN LAKE.............................. Assistant
M. T. CRAWFORD........................... Assistant

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
J. E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
E. K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
J. B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
J. B. WEBB
W. T. IS
J. G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
R. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

WORLD AFFAIRS
The recent vote on the subject of the World Court has caused the thought of this campus to be broadened. By some of the intelligent talk about the advisability or inadvisability of the United States entering this Court, we gather that campus thought is not entirely confined to football, fraternities, shows, and studies. This is encouraging. When any organization of civilized beings confines their thoughts within the bounds of their own daily experiences and mode of living, then their mental conceptions are weakened, their ideas are stagnant. A physical languor and moral turpitude often follow mental laziness. Too often the discussions of groups begin nowhere and end up at the same place. In class-rooms, there is the tendency to dally with large questions that require a little original research, and to substitute ready-made formulas and expositions of others. It is always easier to follow along in the beaten path that others have trod down before us. The test of one’s ambition is often whether or not he is willing to go over and beyond the question, to throw new light on it by observations of his own. Perhaps five hundred words would adequately provide for most of the conversations that students engage in. Sports, magazines, girls, dates, coaches, professors—all of them come in for a share of talk. Most of it is small talk. Anything that makes for a betterment of this is worthy of laudation. The plunge into the world of business after graduation often makes the college graduate gasp with the immensity of it all. He looks back upon his sojourn in college as a pleasant oasis amidst a desert of idleness or of work. He wonders why he did not make some attempt to fathom the deep undercurrents of thought that make business and commerce, religion and science possible. His college life seems tame when he realizes that his is merely a smattering of an education, a broad generalization of a host of facts more or less assimilated. Thus, we maintain that any movement that tends to make one think along broader lines is in itself commendable. Debates in literary societies, discussions in the International Relations Club, and Y. M. C. A. group discussions all have their merit in making the student mind jump the track of the ordinary, humdrum line of thought onto something broader. We shall find it soon enough when we leave college, because things that interest the world at large are those that bring most to bear upon small matters with which we might have to deal. It is hard to realize the extent to which affairs that concern the principalities of Europe, the coal miners of Great Britain, the fruit growers of the western coast, or the small-town merchant in the South, concern every one of us. The sooner we are able to realize that we have our own little part to play in the drama that is played all around us, the better citizens we will be.

STATISTICS
The little pamphlet gotten out by the college just recently is a vest-pocket novel itself. It is worthy of anyone’s time who cares to read the most interesting statistics regarding the growth and present standing of the college and the student body. By a comparison of the figures of those ten years ago, we find that the enrollment has about doubled. Twenty-one states and two foreign countries are represented. Eleven churches are included in the membership of the student body. And a striking point is, that of the whole enrollment, but twelve men, or less than two percent of the student body are not members of any church. That should be encouraging to any church school. The Sophomore and Freshman classes have by far the larger bulk of the enrollment. The present Junior class is the smallest of a number of years. The Senior class contains a larger membership than of any previous graduating class. Four co-eds this year, a little falling off in this important department. Those who decry the lack of interest and appreciation in the classical courses should take heart at the sight of the figures that tell of the 309 students that have elected to take the liberal arts course. It is with something of disappointment that we look at the averages of the fraternities and of the other groups indicated. The figures show that all the fraternities except one made a considerably less average in scholarship than the student body as a whole. The average of the football, basketball, and baseball squads were not much below the student body average. But the crux of the whole situation lies in the table showing the professions and lines of service that the students intend to enter in after life. Business, the ministry, and medicine are the most popular branches of service as indicated by the list. Over a hundred men have chosen other lines and two hundred and thirty-six men have not yet decided what they want to do. There is a problem. When will they decide? Will it be after sad experience has shown them that everyone must fill some place, no matter how small? Are their ambitions, their hopes and fears as great as those who know today what the future will hold for them? Someone has said that the college student does not look forward to any work less than that of a white-collar job—a position where he may retain his tailored appearance and his manicure. He never thinks of the more menial service, or working in the mire, sweaty and tired. Of serving years in some lowly task that promises little at the end. If those that are undecided are thinking of future service, what is it? Have they any intelligent plan or are they merely drifting along with the crowd? Those statistics are worth pondering over. Figures don’t lie.

Open Forum

MORE TRUTH THAN BULL
The student who does not like to indulge in bull sessions at times, and who is not glad to have his friends drop in for such sessions, is at least unusual if there is nothing wrong with his make-up. Bull sessions are fine things—they are a real part of college life, and the contacts formed in them are often helpful. But, as for all other things that are of no harm in themselves, there is a time to bull and a time to stop bulling. One of those times to stop bulling is when we are in a friend’s room and we see that he is trying to study. There are few, if any, who wish to offend a friend by absolutely ignoring his presence or by giving him a cold shoulder when he comes into their room. Most of us would get shot on our tickets the next day or stay up until two o’clock studying to avoid such. And there are doubtless some who do this very thing. It is just a case of thoughtlessness in most cases—if we have a light day tomorrow and no outside work.to do, we go to the room of friends, never realizing that the following day may be a very hard day and they may be over their heads in back work, parallel, or outside work. Fellows, we are all forgetful of the other fellow at times—even our best friends are sometimes the objects of our forgetfulness. Put ourselves in the place of the one who wants to work, and when he reminds us that he has two reviews and four tickets to get for the next day, cut out the bull and let him get to work. —HARD HEARTED.

With Other Colleges

GRANGE’S PROFESSIONALISM

Harold “Red” Grange has the sporting world very much upset by his action in going into professional football. He has had much criticism because he simply takes advantage of a rare opportunity to make a fortune by minimum effort and at the same time with a great amount of pleasure. The chief criticism comes from the standpoint that collegiate football will suffer great harm through his personal action. There are also those who would criticize him very much more if he turned down so easy a method of making his future assured and comfortable. It is about an even toss. One cannot put very much blame on him for the desire to make his money as easily as possible, and by the development of the talent he has. On the other hand, while he may give professional football quite an impetus and advance it further by his participation than it might otherwise be able to go in several years’ time, the obvious fact remains that professionalism is a mere matter of time in football, whether or not Grange had decided differently. The game is too attractive and too easy to make money out of not to fall a victim sooner or later. As a result, there are predictions that football will soon be on a par with baseball. Coaches of the big teams are frankly worrying over the situation, yet they see no effective means of combating the evil. While not putting any particular blame on Grange for his actions, one cannot help but feel gratified that some other, perhaps less well-known players, have turned down rather flattering offers. Southern ranks were not depleted to any great extent, a fact which perhaps signifies that the South will not have this problem of professionalism to face for some years yet. It may be lack of progress; if so, then we may well feel proud of our backwardness. —The Vanderbilt Hustler.

Minor Chords

MARY

In the cold dark winter evenings
As the dusk begins to fall,
And the shades of night start creeping
Bringing darkness over all
Silence brings in starry twilight
As my thoughts begin to stray
Backward, ever straying backward
To a home that's far away.
As I gaze into the firelight
Fancy paints a gorgeous scene
Of my kings, of knights and ladies,
But I behold a single queen.
Maybe she is sitting, thinking,
In the firelight’s golden glow;
Thinking, or perhaps she’s dreaming—
Dreaming dreams of long ago.
Whene’er I’m feeling sad and weary,
And my thoughts bring me dismay,
I let my thoughts drift back to Mary—
At once my cares all fly away.
—G. McM., Jr.

DISAPPOINTMENT

I wanted to hold her hand,
She gave me her mitten instead;
I argued—she queenly, and ever serenely
Refused to heed my command:
To force I resorted—she only retorted,
“No! No! Don’t you dare pull my hair!
I would have persisted, but teacher insisted—
When she was a rosy,
A cute little posy
And I was a six year old.
—F. T. F.

A POEM

I hope I shall die as the maples do,
In robes of red and bronze and golden hue.
When I die may it be in the autumn of life
With yearning for the other world; when there is no knife
Of hopeless, aged winter in my soul.
With spring comes rebirth, and I shall be whole.
It is not death to sleep the winter through.
I hope I shall die as the maples do.
—B. F. M.

Miss Ima Crook, formerly chief of the Emporium Hotel, absconded with twenty thousand berries the other day. A full description of her has been sent to the chief of police and to the sheriff at Miami.

Silas J. Flinger, the wizard inventor of Goulash, Iowa, has announced his latest invention. He has crossed the radio bug with the honey bee, and now, instead of having a bee in his bonnet, he has a ready-made radio set up there to broadcast the latest buzz from Bugdom.

TONIGHT

By Art Fizzbrain

The All-American selections are cooling in the ashes now. Not once did they make mention of F. Ball, High Point man, of North Carolina; Harry Knecke, leading cutter of the New York Barber’s College; Imzo Happie, best passer of the International Correspondence Schools who got fifteen letters there last year; nor of J. Henry Beefem, chief rubber at the Mt. Mourne Nurses’ School. In considering such choices from a possible field that includes the whole country, we would like to put in as our favorite, the Stringem Sporting Goods Co. They have made the best tackles in the entire country and their punts are superb. Their passes are good anywhere and they are death on kicking.

This Florida craze seems to last. But when all the soft soap is taken away and the bubble bursts, there will be more distracted mourners coming home via the tin can route than leave one of Jack Dempsey’s pink teas which he calls prize fights. Florida, the land of realtors, alligators, subdivisions, grapefruit, oranges and realtors.

This country should take steps to protect itself from foreign invasion by air. From good authority, this writer has discovered that spies in the pay of a foreign commonwealth have been dropping down literature on certain college campuses. This freely-disposed propaganda is said to be insidious advertisements for a dancing academy located up North somewhere. We still believe in the integrity of the Great American Boy, however.

Will Rogers is said to be the only man in the world who can throw, shoot, rope and smoke the bull. If he would make a peaceful visit to some of these collegiate hash foundries, he could be taught to eat it also, in the same peaceful manner.

“Have you a little flivver in your home?” says Henry Ford. “At least four out of every five have them. Eventually, why not now?” This timely and wise gesture has caused the few thousand left who do not have this helpful household necessity to consider buying one for the kiddies if nothing else. These charming little infernal mechanisms of Henry Ford have become a good deal quieter in the last few years. It is thought that this result has been brought about by the removing of the brass band from the radiator, also by the gift of the numerous rattles to an orphanage.

Only fourteen more days to do your Christmas shopping. Perhaps one of the most humorous ironies in life is to see daughter take father to the store to select his own Christmas present and to see him when he gets the bill for the same. Do your Christmas shopping now!

Mistletoe is getting more plentiful every year says Otto Wood, the holly bandit. No wonder. The young men of this present generation have no more need or use for mistletoe than they have for a chaperone. Desire under the elms—but mistletoe grows only on oak trees.

That was indeed a wise move that the authorities at Bryn Mawr made. When they told the girls that they could smoke, it was just about like telling a Georgian that he could own a houn’ dog and cuss, or tell the sun that it could rise every morning. The only thing needed to set this off is to tell the dear little girls that they can think of their sweethearts every afternoon between the hours of four and five.

Before long airplanes will be buzzing around in the air like flies do now. Everyone will have one, every girl her parachute, and they say that one manufacturer will do like Ford has threatened to do, paint his products yellow so he can sell them in bunches like bananas.

The sea-going bootlegger is different from the track star with a twisted knee. One is a rum runner and the other is a bum runner. In this age of jazz, buttermilk and flappers, the bootlegger has to know his stuff to sell it. One bootlegger who didn’t know his stuff drank from the wrong bottle and has been staggering around like a falling leaf for several months.