THE DAVIDSONIAN
FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., MAY 7, 1925

University Trackmen Win State Honors As Three Southern Records Are Broken

Mrs. Robson Will Address Students at Y.M.C.A. Meet

Mrs. A. B. Robson, who is well known by the student body, will speak at the Y service on next Sunday evening, May 10th. Mrs. Robson has arranged her talk around the general topic “Mother’s Day.” A. M. Martin is trying to arrange a special musical program in addition to Mrs. Robson’s talk. Mrs. Robson has been a true and patient Mother for the boys who have been unfortunate enough to be sick during their stay at Davidson. She always greets you with a smile, and it’s a smile that makes you feel good. The student body is very anxious to hear Mrs. Robson, as she will only consent to speak every four years, thus allowing each college student the opportunity of hearing her. The Y is fortunate indeed in having the opportunity to get Mrs. Robson for the Mother’s Day program.

Mr. J. P. Williams, Secretary of the Y, will speak on May 17th at the Y vesper. Mr. Williams is leaving Davidson and will follow another work next year. Under his guidance, the Y has done a great work. He has proven to be a real Christian gentleman and a fine straight-forward friend to all those who have called upon him to help in solving their problems. Mr. Williams has not announced his subject for the Y service, but it is well known that it will be a message from his heart. The Davidson men are always ready to turn out for his talks.

The annual statewide track meet was held at the University of North Carolina last Friday and Saturday. Carolina ran away with the honors, getting 108 1-2 points and capturing first place for the fourth consecutive year. State proved to be a poor runner-up with 55, and Davidson came in third totaling only 19 1-2 counters. Wake Forest and Duke trailed the field making 16 and 11 points respectively. Three state records fell before the most brilliant array of college track and field men yet assembled in North Carolina.

Calhoun was the only Davidson entry to take a first place, and he was forced to share his honor with Matthews, State’s star high jumper. The Wildcats had six men reach the finals, and every one of them succeeded in placing in one event. Goodykoontz, Davidson’s best bet in the dashes, came in second to Byrum in the 220-yard dash, and Anderson out-vaulted all the entries with the exception of one man. “Red” McComb hurled the javelin over 150 feet to get third place in this event, while McMillan won a third in the broad jump, and McConnell was circling the track twice on the 880 and crossing the line in fourth place. The meet was run off before a group of enthusiastic spectators.

Spanish Night Features Students With Amusing Round of Unique Entertainment

No longer may the time-honored bull hold full sway over his Davidson stronghold. After having been tortured by the darts of the picadors and having made a gallant fight against the flashy matador, he succumbed after a plucky and prolonged struggle last Friday night. The first bullfight held on the Hill was a decided success from every angle. The program was arranged and produced by the combined Spanish Club of Queens and Davidson. All of the plays given were spoken in Spanish, likewise the popular songs that were rendered by the chorus.

The program opened with a Spanish selection by the symphony orchestra, “La Golondrina,” and the Spanish atmosphere was reproduced throughout the remainder of the performance. This was followed by a Spanish farce, “Juan Rana Comilón.” Before the play began, Professor Fleagle gave a short resume in English to aid those in the audience who did not speak Spanish. J. R. Talley was especially good in his interpretation of the Spanish glutton. Miss Frances Johnson also was a star in this playlet. The next selection was from the chorus, “La Tarara.” This preceded a farce presented by the Spanish Club from Queens. Miss West, head of the Spanish department at Queens, starred in this. She was ably assisted by six other young ladies from Queens. Another selection from the chorus followed this, “Leonese Song.” Another farce, “Los Buñuelos,” was next presented. The cast was composed of members of the local Club. After this, the chorus sang, “Canción de la Mañana.” Popular songs, translated into Spanish, were also part of the entertainment.

Increased Faculty Will be Used Here Next Year

Announcement has been made by Dr. W. J. Martin that two instructors will be added to the faculty next year. Mr. H. E. Fulcher comes as an assistant to Doctor Douglas in the Physics department, and Prof. Guy R. Vowles has been chosen to succeed Professor Clarke of the German department. Mr. M. C. S. Nefita, Jr., has been named as a substitute for Doctor Hood, who has been granted leave of absence for next year.

Mr. H. E. Fulcher is a Bachelor and Master of Physics from the University of Virginia, where he received part of his training. The rest he got at William and Mary. He has taught and served as principal in the public schools of Virginia and comes highly recommended by the department of Physics at the University.

Professor Vowles was graduated with the degree of Bachelor of Arts in 1906 from Fargo College, a Congregational institution in North Dakota. From 1907 to 1910, he was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, England, where he acquired the Bachelor of Arts degree in 1910 in the Honor School of Modern Languages in German. In 1914, he received the Master of Arts degree from the same institution. The following year he spent in Germany among carefully chosen families.

DAVIDSONIAN CHOSEN AS BEST COLLEGE PAPER

For the second consecutive time, The Davidsonian has been chosen by the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association as the best college newspaper in the State. This honor was conferred in recognition of its news stories, its editorial policy, and its general make-up. The editors feel that in some measure their time and effort spent in the publishing of this paper has not been unrewarded. The student body has stood behind the paper at all times and has always shown a lively interest in it. The alumni have not been unconscious of the fact that The Davidsonian has been ever behind the college, working for its advancement, smiling in the face of defeat, and pulling for the best interests of the student body.

The newly-elected staff hopes to continue the good work that has been done during the past two years and to establish a new record of which the college will have good reason to be proud. Only by the cooperation of the faculty and the student body can the paper continue the high standard that has been set; to do this will be the aim of the present board during the ensuing year.

Davidson Students Plan to See European States

Numerous students and faculty members will leave for Europe in June. The coming summer months will find several members of the Davidson faculty in France and other neighboring countries across the Atlantic.To some, the trip will be a novel experience, but to Dr. Lingle and Professor Goldiere, the trip will be less new as they have been over before. Dr. Lingle makes his seventeenth trip this summer, while Professor Goldiere obtained his former experience when he went over in the service of his country. Dr. Lingle leaves New York in company with Dr. Shewmake on June 13th on board the Leviathan. Dr. Shewmake, and the student body who is making his initial voyage, will spend six weeks or more in England studying at the University of London and the library of the British Museum. He will then spend a short time on a tour of Europe. Dr. Lingle will spend six weeks at the Sorbonne studying in the Bibliothèque Nationale, which is the largest national library in the world. After this period of study, Dr. Lingle anticipates visiting with French friends from war times who reside in different parts of France. He also expects to see something of Jules DuFour, Davidson, ’90, who is a professor of English in the Collège de Genève (Geneva), which was founded by John Calvin in 1536. Miss Orrie Steele will also sail on the Leviathan with a tourist party under a professor of Winthrop College. This party will make a general sightseeing tour of Europe. Dr. C. R. Harding will sail on the Homeric of the White Star Line, leaving New York on June 6, with a group of American University professors. Dr. Harding, in the interest of the Greek language, will spend a large part of the summer in Greece and Italy seeing old historic sights and learning something about the people through personal contact. From 1911 to 1922, he was a professor of German in Fargo College. 

(Continued on page 6)

After spending some time in several days before the initiation.

(Continued on page 3)

Discuss Proteins with a group of North Carolina Collegiate Editors Held Successful Convention Here Last Week

Press Association Delegates Hear Davidson Chemists

The North Carolina Academy of Science held its annual meeting at North Carolina State College on Friday and Saturday last week. The meeting was held jointly with the North Carolina Chemical and American Chemical societies. The presidential address was delivered by Doctor Arbuckle, of Davidson College, president of the executive committee. Over one hundred scientists were present and many interesting papers on certain phases of scientific research were presented. 

Doctor Arbuckle, in collaboration with Professor Thies, presented his fourth paper on variations of proteins in corn. Their work for the past year has established the fact that fertilizer has no effect on the value of proteins in corn. Doctor Vilbrandt, Professor of Industrial Chemistry at the University of North Carolina, presented a paper on the evaluation of lubricating oils, wherein he established the fact that these oils are incapable of serving all purposes that they are applied to, especially in the presence of intense heat. Other interesting papers on Chemistry, as well as Biology and Mathematics, were presented, but the subject of Evolution was avoided. Doctor Arbuckle was reelected to the executive committee. The place of the next regular meeting will probably be Winston-Salem.

(Continued on page 5)

Wildcat Debaters Take Thrilling Match From Wake Forest Orators in Charlotte

Thirteen Men Initiated by the Reporters Club

Five Upperclassmen Among Initiates Into Davidsonian Reporters Club—Initiation is Exciting

Fighting with commendable Wildcat spirit, the Davidson forensic trio downed the plucky debaters from Wake Forest in a spirited contest last Friday night in Queens College auditorium. Roland Parker, Yancey Bowie, and Don Wharton, upholding the negative of the query "Resolved, That Congress should be empowered to override by a two-thirds vote decisions of the Supreme Court which declare acts of Congress unconstitutional," were ably opposed by O. L. Norment, C. R. Holmes, and J. J. Tarlton, of Wake Forest.

Immediately after the movie Saturday night, May 2, the recently elected members of the Reporters’ Club were initiated into its membership at the gym. The men who went through the initiation assert that its memory will remain in their minds for many a year at least, and maintain that the rituals and ceremonies of the event were excellently performed—perhaps a trifle too well performed.

The initiation began a little after 9:30 and was completed at 11:40, according to the shouts and yells which were continually heard from the basement of the gym. The old members enjoyed the ceremony extremely well; but while other yells were heard occasionally, one could hardly say that they were screams of enjoyment.

The new members were exactly 13 in number. They apparently were aware that such a number was unlucky, but, of course, were unable to remedy it. Of the 13 men who were initiated, five were upperclassmen: Kenneth Bell, Wade Allison, W. S. Gordon, J. B. Webb, and H. L. Shelby. The remaining eight were freshmen: Boyce Martin, Caldwell Withers, Walter Anderson, C. L. Douglass, J. F. Hollingsworth, J. P. McKnight, Ben Wilson, and J. G. Wharton. All the above men were compelled to wear paper caps of Napoleonic shape for some time.

(Continued on page 5)

Roland Parker was at his best in a well-planned and strikingly delivered opening speech in which he met squarely the charge in regard to the necessity of the change. He showed that the change was unnecessary on account of the character and record of the court, the present restrictions, the court's attitude toward Congressional legislation, and the fact that the people did not wish to delegate the proposed powers to Congress.

C. R. Holmes ably defended the affirmative arguments by pointing out that the change would not remove any great powers from the court, that it was not radical, and would not call for great changes in the government.

Yancey Bowie, in his characteristically effective style, clearly and concisely developed the negative scheme of proof by showing the disrupting effect on the American government that would follow the proposed change.

J. J. Tarlton concluded the affirmative’s constructive argument by pointing out the merits of the proposed plan in a well-thought-out speech. Don Wharton impressed the audience with his rebuttal.

(Continued on page 5)