THE DAVIDSONIAN, May 14, 1925

1925 FOOTBALL NEXT

1925 TENNIS DOUBLES CHAMPIONS

Wildkitten Nine Drops Final Game to Baptists
Wake Forest Yearlings Win 3-1 Here Saturday as Joyner Tightens in Pinches

The Davidson Freshman baseball team closed a fairly successful season here Saturday afternoon when they lost to Wake Forest Freshmen
in a well-played game of baseball, the final count being 3 to 1. The season closed with eight victories out
of fourteen contests.

Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra

Joyner and Poole engaged in a mound battle during the entire nine innings, Joyner being unusually cool-headed in the pinches,
and pitched a brand of ball that won the game for Wake Forest when apparently the Davidson Wildkittens were going
to score. Several times Davidson had a chance to tie the score and win the game. In the fourth, a
man was on third and one on first, with no outs, but the side was retired without a tally. Again,
in the eighth with the bases full and one out, Joyner was able to retire the side without a score.
Both pitchers allowed but eight hits during the afternoon, one home run being garnered off each. The closing game was
one of the best played by any team on Richardson field this season.

Box score:

W. FOREST FRESH.
AB R H PO A E
Joyner, ss
Wames, cf
Chackles, 2b
Clayton, ss
Baucom, cf
Brandon, 1b
Jones, lf
Smith, lf
Phelps, c
Joyner, p

DAVIDSON FRESH
AB R H PO A E
Harrison, 2b
Kugler, ss
McAulay, ss
Arrowood, 1b
Johnson, cf
Poole, p
Maulden, rf
Mulen, 3b
McNeil, c
Edwards, lf
*C. Cathey
**McGeachy
***Edgar

*Batted for Edwards in seventh.
**Batted for Kugler in eighth.
***Hit for McNeil in ninth.

Score by innings:
R H
Wake Forest Fresh 001 101 000—3 8
Davidson Fresh 000 001 000—1 8

Summary—Two-base hits: Dulin, Edgar; three-base hit: Joyner; home runs: Chackles, Arrowood; sacrifice hit: Phelps; stolen bases: Clayton 3, Baucom; left
on bases: Wake Forest 6, Davidson 10; bases on balls: off Joyner 1, off Poole 2; struck out: by Joyner
7, by Poole 4; passed balls: McNeill 3; time of game: 1:55; umpire: Hengeveld.

College clothes are not like other clothes. College men wear what they like and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it,
so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand makes clothes for college men. That's why they make the best.

SENIORS 10, FRESH 6

The Seniors walked over the Freshmen Tuesday afternoon to the tune of 10-6; “Peck” Holshouser pitched jam-up baseball for the
Seniors and was practically un-hittable in every inning except the seventh, when he weakened and the Freshmen touched him for
all of their runs. Leight went in for the Fresh in the fourth inning and pitched good ball after getting
warmed up.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

Well, athletics are all over for the year, and so is this the last issue of The Davidsonian. The first
thing attention will be called to in the fall will naturally be football, and that is something that is going
to require some writing about this next school year. For with so many good men coming back, and with a
good supply of material coming up from the Freshman class, Coach Monk will have another chance to put out the
football team he did this past year. We hope it is going to be still better. The team attracted south-wide
attention this year, and we want it to attract even greater attention next year.

There would be great rejoicing at Davidson if the Wildcats could defeat Wake Forest in Charlotte next year, State here
and Carolina at Chapel Hill. Those would appear to be the biggest games of the season, though the ones with
Duke here and Furman at an unknown place will require an expenditure of brains and brawn.

The baseball season ended last week with two good games, perhaps the best of the season. And Davidson almost won
both of them. When a team plays an 11-inning game one day, and a 13-inning battle the next day, it
speaks well for them. Laird did some good pitching both days. Had he been given better support in the game
with Wake Forest he would have won. Then he pitched six innings of the Duke game at Monroe the following
day.

Vance closed the season with a batting average well over .400, and has brought in many of the Davidson runs
this season by his singles, doubles, triples and home runs. Though the baseball season was not successful this year, it
is expected that Coach Monk will have a better supply of material to work with next season. The Freshmen will
send several pitchers up for Coach Monk to use. At least some of them have been showing fairly well this
season. It remains to be seen what they will do when they face bigger and better teams than the Freshmen
have played.

When the Wildkittens lost to Wake Forest Freshmen, 3 to 1, last Saturday, they lost after a hard battle, and
their season ended then with eight victories and six defeats out of 14 starts. We'd like very much to see
Price and McCutchen meet theTulane winners of the Southern tennis title. Somehow we were pulling for Carolina hard in that
match, for had the Tar Heels won the doubles, then technically Davidson would have been Southern title holders.

Of course, we cannot get into associations whenever we want to, but we do wish that Davidson was connected with
some association to compete each year. Currie evidently stepped out while in Greensboro last Saturday when he ran with Scholtz
in the 100-yard dash and 220-yard dash. It was a great showing for him, and Davidson is glad that she
has him here. It is said that Currie has a tendency to break training. That being true, we believe that
with good consistent training he will make a name for himself and Davidson that will be envied by many cinderpath
men over the state and south. Price and McCutchen proved a good combination in the state tennis meet, and we
congratulate them upon bringing back the “double crown” from Chapel Hill. McCutchen will be here for two more years, and
according to our way of thinking he is going to give someone a run for state singles honors in the
next two years he has to play.

Baptists Win Thriller 8-7, in Eleventh Inning
Davidson Weakens in Final Innings After Piling up Big Lead in First Two

In the most exciting game of the season, Davidson was defeated last Friday by Wake Forest to the tune of
8-7, the winning marker being made in the last frame of the 11-inning game. The Demon Deacons managed to push
two runs over the plate in their half of the initial frame but this was overshadowed, for when the Wildcats
took the field at the beginning of the second, they had placed four counters on the right side of the
ledger. Davidson’s lead was further increased in the second inning when Laird and Covington scampered home. In the meantime, the
visitors were being held scoreless by the masterful pitching of Red Laird. Sorrels, replacing Brewton, who had been pounded out
of the box before Wake Forest was able to put but one Davidson man out, hurled a beautiful game of
ball. He caused an even dozen Wildcats to miss the third strike and was practically invincible when men were on
the paths. In addition to this, he garnered three hits and scored a run. Greason, the Deacon's second sacker, secured
three hits also and made two counters. Laird pitched fine ball but was given poor support when men occupied the
sacks, which kept him in a hole most of the time. He was probably the outstanding Davidson man of the
day, since he made three singles and placed one run in the Davidson column. Kugler, playing his first full home
game at the initial sack, put up a neat game in the field, handling 12 chances without a miscue, and
solved Sorrell’s delivery twice. He made a double play unassisted, the play saving the day for Davidson for the time
being. Wake Forest tied the score and went one run ahead in her half of the ninth, but Davidson quickly
knotted the score when Davis, pinch-hitting for Glenn, secured a blow and crossed the plate a few minutes later following
a hit by Captain Covington. All this was in vain for the Wake county boys pushed a run over in
the eleventh and the home nine failed to rally sufficiently to again tie the score.

Box score:
WAKE FOREST, AB R H PO A
Timberlake, ss 5 2 2 1 1
Greason, 2b 5 2 3 2 1
Armstrong, 1b 5 2 1 5 0
Simmons, lf 5 1 2 2 0
Foard, c 5 0 2 16 1
Motsinger, cf 4 0 0 0 0
Holterigue, rf 5 0 2 5 0
Riley, 3b 5 0 0 0 0
Brewton, p 0 0 0 0 0
Sorrels, p 5 3 2 0 3
Totals 45 8 15 33 8

DAVIDSON AB R H PO A
Alford, ss 5 2 2 2 1
Covington, 3b 5 1 3 0 3
Kugler, 1b 5 1 2 12 0
Winn, cf 5 0 1 0 0
Wells, c 5 0 0 8 0
(Continued on page 5)

Davidson Golfers Shut Out Concord

Last Wednesday afternoon the golf team added another scalp to their string of victories by taking the Concord Country Club
into camp. The match was featured by the steady play of the entire team with the ultimate outcome of a
9-0 victory. Canon and Dr. Wadsworth, opposing Jones and Trotter, were the most formidable of the foe. In the second
round, they forced the latter to exert considerably to win. Milhous and Reeves had a thirty-six for the day’s low
score which was two below par for the course. Malloy turned a par score for the first seven holes of
his match. The Country Club team as a whole were playing a much more inferior game than was their custom,
as can be seen by their former scores. Cannon in particular was exceedingly unlucky, turning in a fifty which was
his worst score of the season. Following are the results of the match: Milhous and Reeves, of Davidson, beat Furr
and Sherrill, of Concord, one up on the first round and two up on the second. Score, 3 points. Malloy
and Grey, of Davidson, beat Bell and Irving, of Concord, seven up on the (Continued on page 8)

BRUISES
Apply alternately hot and cold wet cloths to bruised or abraded parts. Spread on Vicks thickly and cover with light
cloth. Repeat every few hours.

Vicks VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

For High Class PRINTING of every description + “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian
Standard Pub. Co.

All kinds of accessory clothing shown every Friday in the lobby of West Dormitory by Joe Harrison Clothing Company
APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
