THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

Davidson - Wake Forest 48 28
Davidson - Guilford 49 18

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Wildcats Successful In Big Basketball Season
Davidson Basketeers Win Sixteen of Twenty-Two Games and Finish in Second Place

The defeat of Wake Forest, Saturday night, rang down the curtain of one of the most successful basketball seasons ever experienced by a Wildcat basketball team. This crushing defeat provided an excellent climax to so great a season. The quintet fought and played hard the entire season and continued in this fighting spirit until the final whistles of the last game. In the 22 games played against teams from Georgia to Virginia, the Wildcats won 16, losing six games.

The Wildcat squad reported at the first of the season with only one letter-man missing, ex-Captain Nappy Davis failing to return. With practically the whole team returning, the squad launched into vigorous training and practice. The results of this were shown in the decisive defeat of Concord “Y,” and later, Charlotte “Y” also met defeat at the hands of the Wildcats. Two games with Duke were annexed after this and then the team journeyed to Carolina to be defeated by the Southern champs by a large score. Returning home, the team won from Elon and again defeated Concord “Y.” A trip to Duke followed, the Methodists being defeated for the third time. Two defeats followed this victory, one at the hands of Wake Forest, the other administered by the Durham Elks. But in the return game with the Elks, the Wildcats defeated them. A return game with Charlotte “Y” resulted in defeat, but after this, the team won four straight, beginning with High Point at Davidson.

In one of the high spots of the season, the Davidson team defeated Georgia Tech in a fast game at Charlotte. This was the first time Davidson and Tech had met in an athletic contest in two years. Beginning the trip through Virginia, the Wildcats, on their way up, turned back Guilford and ran up the highest score of the season. The next victim for the team, the Tech boys, were unable to stop the Wildcats’ flashy pass-work. Washington and Lee downed the Wildcats for their fifth defeat of the season, but on recovering from this, they turned down Hampden-Sidney and Roanoke. Returning from the Virginia trip to play Wake Forest in Charlotte, Davidson went down in defeat for the last time of the season. On the following night, Guilford was defeated and Wake Forest came into the Wildcats’ lair the next night to be defeated by a large score in the final game.

The entire squad played throughout the season, Anderson in finding the basket was especially notable, he being high point man for the season. Staley sank a large number of shots also and was runner-up to Anderson in points scored. The playing of Laird was excellent both on the defense and offense. Captain “Sook” Boggs maintained a steady gait the entire season, always watching his man.

Sport Flashes
By DON WHARTON

Closing each athletic season in a blaze of glory has just about become a habit at Davidson. Last fall the victory over Trinity on the gridiron, then the victory over North Carolina on the wrestling mat, and finally a decisive win over Wake Forest on the basketball court seems to be a good start toward making this a tradition at Davidson.

Davidson truly had a five-man quintet. To pick out one man on it, and say that he is the outstanding player would be unpardonable favoritism. Although Captain Boggs, playing at guard, didn't do much scoring throughout the year, his work was of the highest order. He is recognized throughout North Carolina as the greatest standing guard of the State. His ability to outguess the approaching forward, to break up the passing attack of opponents, his dribbling and pass work all combine to create a guard of all-state caliber. Spee McConnell, the other Wildcat guard, made an ideal running mate for Boggs. Time after time and game after game it was McConnell who furnished the spectators with glimpses of the prettiest form possible. He scored over a hundred points. Anderson's feat of scoring 219 points or an average of 10 points per game, was one of the biggest of the season. Staley and Laird vied for second honors in scoring, Staley nosing out with 177 to Laird’s 163 points. They made a great combination.

In spite of Wake Forest having defeated the Wildcats two out of three games, it is interesting to note that the Wildcats piled up a total of 112 points in these three encounters to Wake Forest’s 109. However, it’s not to any of the regulars nor the substitutes that the greatest honor and appreciation is due—Coach Monk was the man that developed the team that won 16 out of 22 games and by a percentage rates second in the State.

COX ELECTED TO CAPTAIN WRESTLING TEAM IN 1925
Frierson Will Manage Matmen on Big Schedule During Next Year

The Wildcat wrestlers will be led during the 1925-26 season by W. D. Cox, and managed by Joe Frierson. These men were elected at a meeting of the team held last Saturday morning. Cox, who wrestles in the 139-pound class, has completed his second season on the team. During the past season he has won three matches, all of falls, and haslost twice on time. In the Carolina meet, he won the only man and seldom allowed him to shoot. “Speck” McConnell also played well at guard.

FRIERSON SHOWS UP FINE IN FIRST SEASON ON MAT

Joe Frierson, who has gained a widespread reputation on the wrestling mat, made his debut in the Concord “Y” match when he won his match by a fall in one minute 32 seconds, and he also won by a fall in the return match. In the N. C. State match, he again won by a fall. In the next meets, he won with large time advantages, the time in the V. P. I. match being five minutes and 46 seconds, and in the Carolina match, his time was five minutes eight seconds. The only time he lost was in the Navy match, when he lost to Slaven in a six-minute extended time period, the advantage being only 10 seconds.

“Equipment for Every Sport” Spalding, Reach, Wright & Ditson

THE SEASON’S RESULTS

Davidson 36
Davidson 44
Davidson 27
Davidson 45
Davidson 36
Davidson 39
Concord Y 19
Davidson 31
Charlotte Y 21
Davidson 27
Duke 22
Davidson 39
Duke 22
Davidson 13
Carolina 44
Davidson 46
Elon 19
Davidson 37
Concord Y 14
Davidson 22
Duke 18
Davidson 33
Durham Elks 49
Wake Forest 48
Durham Elks 23
Charlotte Y 37
High Point 28
Ga. Tech 27
Davidson 58
Guilford 27
Davidson 52
Davidson 29
Davidson 33
Davidson 35
Hampden-Sid. 17
Davidson 19
Wake Forest 33
Guilford 28

Coach Tilson Busy With Cinder-Path Candidates

Wildcat Track Prospects Are Bright For Coming Season—Many Veterans Report for Practice

This is the first year in three or four that we have had a coach to devote his attention to developing a real cinder path squad, and the following men, under the direction of Coach Tilson, should prove strong contestants. In the 100, 220, and 440, are Brand, Goodykoontz, Matthews, and George Smith. Brand and Goodykoontz are showing up fine in the early practice. Matthews and Smith have been on the squad in the past and are showing up well, and are likely to give someone a tussle for a berth in the dashes.

Spec McConnell, in the mile race, holds the college record and intends to uphold this honor and defend his title against all comers. McConnell will probably run the 880 also. Parker is showing up well in the 440 and 880. Though lacking in experience, he shows promise, and the team will have a valuable man in him with the proper training. Buck Shaw is working and training hard in the 880 and promises to give someone a good race in this event. In the two-mile race are Williford and Webb, both doing good work. Williford, who made his letter last year, shows good ability and has a good stride. He will probably prove a consistent winner on the team this year.

Red Anderson, in the pole vault and high hurdles, made his letter last year for the first time. He showed up well in these events last year and ought to make things hum against any contestants this year. Red McComb is the ex-record holder with the javelin. He once held the state record for a moment, but it was snatched from him by his formidable antagonist, Carter, of State. McComb made his letter in this event in both his Fresh and Soph years, and is expected to give strong opposition this year both to his opponents and his teammates who seek to win a letter in this event.

In the broad jump, C. C. McMillan is working hard. He made a splendid showing in the class meet last Easter, on the strength of which he made the Virginia trip and the State meet. McMillan showed marked ability, and with hard work and coaching may prove a valuable man to the team. Captain Gracy, in the high hurdles, javelin, shot put, and high jump, is showing his usual good form. Gracy is the mainstay of the team and will be a hard man to beat. He will probably pole vault also.

The nucleus around which the team will be built are the following five letter men: McConnell (2), Williford (1), McComb (2), Anderson (1), and Gracy (3). The team will enter five meets this year: Clemson, V. P. I., South Carolina, Wofford, and the State meet.

Frierson, although only a Sophomore and on the team for the first year, has made quite a name for himself in wrestling circles. He has been hailed as the successor of Cromartie, Davidson’s wrestler supreme. Of six starts, Frierson won five, only losing to Slaven, of Navy, by a margin of 10 seconds when the match went into an extra period. While the season was not as bright as in former years, the Wildcat grapplers showed up well. In the four collegiate meets held, the Wildcats broke even, losing to Navy and V. P. I., and defeating Carolina and State. Concord Y. M. C. A. was also defeated twice.

Have you seen the new Finchley William Tell bow ties? No—what are they like? Oh, just pull back the bow and hit the apple.

COUGHS

Every few hours, swallow slowly a quarter of a teaspoonful of Vicks. Also melt a little in a spoon or a tin cup and inhale the vapors arising.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

On These Cold Days--- GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES They Satisfy the Appetite

W. G. SHIELDS

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

Wholesale When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street