THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

GEORGIA TECH IS BEATEN GRANT FIELD IS REVENGED

Central Cafeteria ‘On the Square’’ Best Place to Eat Good Orchestra Corner Trade and Tryon Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry Watches and Clocks Eversharp Pencils Stationery Parker Fountain Pens Pennants and Pillows Athletic Supplies Bradley Sweaters W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler DAVIDSON, N. C.

In the better fabrics $40 It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes —famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal. The TATE-BROWN CO.

Davidson Wins Initial Clash With High Point Young Collegians Fall Before Aggressive Attack of More Experienced Men 45-28

Davidson defeated High Point College here Friday night 45 to 28 in the first athletic meet of these schools. The Wildcats jumped off to a good lead in the early part of the game which the visitors could not overcome. The fast offense of the Davidson team piled up a 23 to 9 score at the end of the first half. High Point opened the second period with a rush and played the Wildcats on even terms until Davidson got together and scored 13 straight points near the end of the game. The close defense of the locals forced the High Pointers to long shots at which they were very successful. Hill scored several pretty baskets from near the center of the floor. Anderson and Laird led the Wildcat offense with 15 and 14 points respectively to their credit, while McConnell showed good form, scoring seven points. Hauser, center for High Point, played a nice game. Staley, of Davidson, was out of the game with injuries.

Line-up: Davidson, Position, High Point.
Maite (C4) Right forward
Beéall (S) Wood Left forward
Anderson (15) Hauser (2) Center
McConnell (7) Rogers (2) Right guard
Boggs (25) Wood (2) Left guard

Substitutions—Davidson: Hewlett (2) for Laird; Faucette (2) for Beall; Hudgins for Boggs. High Point: Brooks for Rogers. Referee: Rawson (Georgia).

ELEVEN TO CLASH WITH HICKORY MARCH SEVENTH

The spring football practice is taking real shape now. Coach Tex is running the men through real tough scrimmages and plays; the old men are showing up well and the new men that are out for varsity positions for the first time are rapidly improving. The first scrimmage was held last Wednesday; this was very light, but the one on the following Saturday was anything but easy. Two new plays were explained and executed Monday, and there is a promise of several more. The first game will be played Saturday afternoon. The squad will be divided into two sections and a team picked from each. This promises to be a real game. A game has been scheduled with the Hickory High School for March 7 also. Hickory boasts a strong team, having several old Centre College stars on it and possessing two 190 pound tackles. A real fight is expected at this game and both are working hard in anticipation of it.

“BIG FIVE” STANDING AND SCHEDULE

Club. Won. Lost. Pet.
Carolina 5 0 1,000
Wake Forest 3 2 .600
Davidson 3 2 .600
State 2 2 .500
Duke 0 7 .000

Feb. 18—Carolina vs. Wake Forest.
Feb. —Carolina vs. State.
Feb. —Wake Forest vs. Duke.
Feb. 28—State vs. Duke.
Feb. 28—Wake Forest vs. Davidson.

Spalding Reach Wright & Ditson Goldsmith Goods Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co. 18 East Trade Street

Sport Flashes By DON WHARTON

CROSS WORD PUZZLE

HORIZONTAL
1—What a “bid” does or doesn't do.
4—What Davidson golfers try to do to the ram.
5—Condition of average college professor (not so at Davidson).

VERTICAL
1—What Davidson boys did near the Drug Store the night of the Bon Marche game.
2—Famous street in Charlotte on which are situated places of refuge for many Davidson wanderers.
3—Where most teachers have gone to.

DC. Everyone eventually weakens. “Eventually, why not now?” DC— No prize is offered to the solver of the above puzzle. Notice is hereby given that the writer is not responsible for where the solver may wander in its solution. DC— But what has it to do with sports? Nothing except to start a little bull fighting. DC— Speaking of fighting, what about a little boxing up here at Davidson. They have it over at Carolina, up at V. M. I., and at many other places. DC— It’s a far cleaner and more sportsmanlike game than wrestling. And it’s fine exercise. The boys might practice in their rooms. DC— For there’s not room enough in the present gym to start anything else. The biggest need of the student body today is for a gym well equipped with all modern apparatus. We haven't got a place half big enough to stage a real basketball game. The present court would do fine for the students’ use. We should have one with room for the crowds that would then come. DC— However, we believe our two Toms could loop them in on any old court. Anderson has rung up 55 field goals and enough fouls to run up aTotal of 125 points—an average of 10 per game. Staley, playing in 12 games, has an average of 8 points per game—94 in all.

However, the class of our team is in the two guards—Captain Boggs is headed for all-state if ever a man was. And “Spec” rates pretty well as a running guard.

Tonight the Fresh will stage their big game over in Durham with the Young Bucks. It would be like icing on the cake for the Yearlings to complete the season with a win from Duke.

The Bucks have perhaps the best Fresh quint in the state. Already they have beaten Carolina, State, and Wake Forest—some of them twice. Their 1926 prospects seem good. The Wildcats moved up one notch in the “big five” basketball standing although they didn’t play any of the “big five” last week. In reality, Carolina gently sent the Techmen sliding from second to fourth.

On Saturday, Tar Heels Come for Last Mat Meet
Wildcat Grapplers Have Hard Fight — Scores Promise Close Match

On Saturday, the Wildcats participate in their last wrestling match for the season of 1924-25 when the University of North Carolina comes to the Hill. So far, Davidson has had a very successful season. They began by taking the Concord Y. M. C. A. into camp on two different occasions. Then they took their Northern trip, at which time they downed N. C. State, but were later given a dose of the same medicine by the Middies at Annapolis. On last Saturday, the crack V. P. I. team came down and trounced us for our second defeat this year.

The United States Naval Academy is considered as having one of the strongest teams in the country and we considered ourselves extremely lucky to be counted among the teams on her schedule. The match should be very interesting due to the fact that both of the opponents have recently clashed with N. C. State and both came away with the Techmen’s scalps, Carolina by the score of 14-9 and Davidson by the score of 11-6. They were both victorious in the same weights, so for this reason also the match should be very interesting. The probable line-up for the Wildcats will be: Frierson, Barrington, Cox, Cox, Patterson, Vance, and Summers. Carolina lost one of her mainstays of last year when Poindexter graduated, and Davidson followed suit with Cromartie and Lindamood. Much interest has been shown over the bout not only on the campus but also in the nearby towns. The alumni of the two institutions are very much interested and it is very probable that numerous cars will be here Saturday from the nearby towns.

Lose Return Game To Charlotte Team

In a game somewhat marred by rough play and football tactics, Charlotte Y. M. C. A. turned back the fight Wildcats with a 29 to 37 score. The game was a very close affair during its earlier part—at the halfway mark the score was a 15-15 tie, but in the last half, the Davidson players were unable to keep up with the hard-playing “Y” basketeers. Tom Staley was the star performer for the Davidson boys, while the Yates brothers were the leading players for the “Y” quint. The line-up and summary are as follows:

Davidson (27) Position Char. “Y” (37)
Staley (9) .......... Neiman (13) Right forward
Laird (9) .......... Milstead (0) Left forward
Anderson (4) ...... W. Yates (13) Center
McConnell (3) ..... Schenck (0) Right guard
Boggs (2) .......... Smith (2) Left guard

Substitutions—For Davidson: Beall for Staley; Faucette for Anderson. For Charlotte “Y”: D. Yates (13) for Milstead. Referee: Wolfe.

CATARRH of nose or throat is made more endurable, sometimes greatly benefited by applying Vicks up nostrils. Also melt some and inhale the vapors.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

Exactly what are the possibilities in the state cage race?

First Place—Carolina gets first honors excepting one possibility. That is for Wake Forest to win from Carolina, Duke, and twice from Davidson at the same time that Carolina loses to State. Such a course would make the Baptists have a standing of won seven, lost two, to Carolina’s won five, lost two. A slim chance.

Second Place—Open to all save Duke University. Carolina might get it in the manner described above. Wake Forest can get second honors by winning from Duke and Davidson twice even though losing to Carolina, unless State beats Duke and Carolina, which would give the Techmen second place. Also, if Davidson and Wake Forest split. Moral: Win both games from the Baptists and nobody can take second honors from us.

INDIVIDUAL SCORES
Anderson, c ........ 55 15 in 41 125
Staley, rf .......... 41 12 in 19 94
Laird, lf ........... 27 13 in 24 67
McConnell, rg ...... 25 8 in 14 58
Beall, g ............ 16 7 in 15 39
Hewlett, f .......... 10 6 in 10 26
Boggs (C), lf ....... 4 5 in 13 13
Hudgins, c ......... 1 0 in 2 2
Simpson, g ......... 1 0 in 0 2
Faucette, f ......... 1 0 in 0 2
181 66 in 138 428
Davidson Opponents 151 62 in 155 366

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.