THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1925

HUNGRY??
Home Cooked. Those tasty eats and delicious Punch for feeds and parties
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie’s) TEA ROOM

Class Basketball Draws Students to Gymnasium
Three Upper Classes Will Have Strong Teams—Race to be Close

As the fall comes on, the thoughts of those interested in the popular sport of basketball are now turning toward
the class teams which are making plans to start the ball rolling. Last year the then Sophomores were the champions,
but with the loss of Tom Anderson and Andy Hewlett through their having made a letter last year, the task
of building another team of the same caliber is somewhat difficult. Bob Faucette will be greatly missed also. Calhoun will
be there with his accurate shooting, and Simpson is ever steady at the guard position. Killard Keerans as a guard
will be in there fighting.

For the Seniors, Hue, Parker, Cook, Moore, and Lawson will form the nucleus around which the Senior hopes will rest.
Last year this bunch made a team that was hard to beat, and with the added experience, they seem to
be the logical ones to take the championship this year, although many strange things happen and they can never be
too sure that their chances will not be swept away at a minute’s notice by the better playing of a
better team.

For this year’s Sophs, Mauldin, McColgan, Wilson, Melton, McGeachy, and Milner will furnish a wealth of material from which to
pick a reliable team. This team was predicted to do great things before the season started, but as it wore
on, they did not seem to be able to pull together, and the inevitable result was that they could not
get the results that were expected of them. With a better knowledge of each other, they should furnish a better-coordinated
team and should land well up in the scale when the season ends. Brown, who last year was a star
at the running guard position, did not return this year, and his place will be hard to fill.

As to the team that this year’s Fresh class will put on the floor, there is only guesswork to be
done, for as yet no move has been made to get a team together. The Fresh will have to put
a fast team on the floor in order to do anything against the other classes, and with this in mind,
they will probably put out some extra time in the effort to show the school a real Fresh team. These
games should furnish some thrilling moments for those interested, and it is hoped that a great many will avail themselves
of this opportunity, for it is in this way that Coach Monk is able to get a line on prospective
members of the varsity. There are a number of vacancies on the varsity this year, and it will pay every
man striving for this honor to put out everything that he has in order that the coaches may see just
what kind of a player he is.

GUILFORD AND DAVIDSON PREPARE
(Continued from page 1)

McConnell .......... RG .......... Seale
Grey ............... RT .......... Bohannon
QB .......... Hendrix
Black .......... HB .......... Wells
Grey .......... FB .......... Black

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

“Glory be to the Wildcats,” said one sports scribe Saturday, and rightly did he say that. Never before (at least
not within the realm of the memory of present students and many of the faculty members) has a Wildcat team
fought as the team representing Davidson fought last Saturday against Wake Forest in Charlotte. We outplayed them. There is no
gainsaying that. Not only is this the viewpoint of the Davidson students, but of the entire 6,000 spectators gathered on
Wearn Field. It was a great game, and not a single person left the field with a feeling that he
had not received more than his money's worth.

Furthermore, we are glad that Hank Garrity admitted the superiority of the Davidson team when he walked over to Coach
Monk afterward and told him that Davidson played his team all over the field that afternoon. We appreciate those words,
and that admission, coming from a man who is a recognized genius in football circles everywhere.

Many attributes go toward making the team play as it did Saturday. First of all, it was because they were
working under two master minds—those of Coach Monk and Coach Tex. It was these two splendid coaches that imparted to
the field the knowledge of the minute points of the game, who had drilled and labored for one month and
more of strenuous work. It was...The culmination of great training, and while to the players goes unlimited glory, we must
not and we cannot forget the coaches behind that team. Occasionally you find the title “miracle” man attached to some
coach. And while we do not care to make a public claim for our coaches to be called that, still
it seems to us that it was something of a miracle to tie the erstwhile declared state champions of North
Carolina. In fact, one Charlotte fan, though he slightly favors Davidson, said on Thursday night before the game that if
Davidson tied the score that day it would be nothing short of a miracle, and we believe that he would
be glad to call Coach Monk by that title.

Wake Forest (7) Position Davidson (7)
From placement, Wake Forest, Ellerbe; Davidson, Laird.
Substitutes: Wake Forest, L. Person for Ellerbe; Martin for Johnson; Clayton for Daniel; Sykes for Karleskint; Ellerbe for L. Person;
Karleskint for Sykes; Daniel for Clayton; Johnson for Martin; Chakles for Karleskint; Sykes for Chakles; Clayton for Daniel. Davidson, Wells
for Leggette; McComb for Wells; Ritchie for Baker; Arrowood for Bohannon; Harrison for R. Grey; Nisbet for McComb; Baker for
Ritchie; Wells for Nisbet; R. Grey for Harrison; Bohannon for Arrowood; Vance for Christian; Leggette for Wells.
Officials: Referee, Hartsell (N. C. State); umpire, Alexander (W. & L.); head linesman, Sanburn (Dartmouth). Attendance, 6,000.
Statistics: First downs, Wake Forest 6; Davidson 8. Yards gained by scrimmage: Wake Forest 141; Davidson 147; yards gained by
punts: Wake Forest 343; Davidson 285. Passes: Wake Forest, 29 yards, 3 successful, 2 incomplete, 2 intercepted; Davidson, 46 yards,
3 successful, 4 incomplete. No penalties.

So we say, save your shekels, if you can ever find one; save your loose change, and be ready to
buy a ticket to the Carolina game—if we run the special. If we don’t, then you'll happen to have a
little extra money about that time.

Despite
Pinkney
Laird
Johnson
Vance
Emerson
McConnell
Lentz
J. Grey
Collier
Baker
Daniel
Bohannon
Rackley
Hendrix
Greason
Leggette
R. Grey
Karleskint
Black

Wake Forest 7 0 0 0—7
Davidson 0 7 0 0—7

Scoring touchdowns: Wake Forest, Greason; Davidson, Wells. Extra point from placement, Wake Forest, Ellerbe; Davidson, Laird.

Football Schedule Will Not be Changed Further
Manager Regen Announces Definite Dates and Places for Remaining Games

That the students of Davidson would get the opportunity to see three big football games during this month and the
first part of next was the outcome of an announcement made by Manager Kelsey Regen, Monday. The scenes of conflict
of several important contests had been arranged only tentatively until a conference held the first part of the week between
representatives of Davidson and those of the other colleges concerned completed all necessary arrangements.

Presbyterian College of South Carolina will be played on the Winthrop College athletic field, in Rock Hill. The Blue Stockings
from Clinton have gotten off to a good start this season, defeating the Tigers of Clemson in the opening game
of the season. Later they handed Erskine a defeat by a larger score than South Carolina did the week before.
This battle at Rock Hill will be on the 17th of this month.

Another dangerous foe hailing from the Palmetto State is Furman University. The Purple Hurricane from Greenville handed the Generals of
Washington and Lee a 20 to 15 defeat last week. This game promises to be the hardest game of the
year for the Wildcats. The people of Charlotte are to be given another chance to see the Davidson team play
this year as the game is to be staged on Wearn Field. Furman comes to Charlotte to battle the Wildcats
on the 24th.

Through this arrangement N. C. State will be brought to the Hill on the last day of October. As State
decisively downed Duke Saturday they appear to be a very formidable foe. It has been rumored around the campus that
the 31st is to be “Home-Coming Day” for all old Davidson men, so no doubt there will be a large
crowd on hand to witness the Wildcats and the Wolf Pack grapple.

These games will have important bearing on the championship of the two Carolinas as the Presbyterians and the Baptists have
two of the strongest teams in the Palmetto State this season. In addition to these three contests with teams that
are considered regulars on the Davidson schedule, Hampden-Sidney is to play the Wildcats on the 7th of November. The place
of this contest is still undecided, but indications point to the fact that it will take place either at Salisbury
or Winston-Salem. The Virginians have an un-

(Continued on page 3)

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia Theological Seminary is an approved Seminary for ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is the official Seminary for
the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. The Faculty is composed of men who are chosen for pre-eminence:
1. In Christian Character
2. In Scholarship
3. In Approved Ability
4. As Moulders of Thought
5. As Leaders of Men

The student body is composed of picked men from the choicest Christian homes of the South. Their motives, ability, and
character have been approved by their home church, Presbytery, and college. These young men come to the Seminary to receive
special training for leadership in the most important sphere of human experience.

Columbia Seminary offers to its students thorough training, sympathetic fellowship, helpful co-operation, practical experience, a true conception of the meaning
of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville, N. C.
