4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE...........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN.................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH................Managing Editor
W. E. HAMILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK.............Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON...........Peanut Parcher Editor
H. B. PRICE.................Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCH...........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW...............Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS.............Alumni Editor

Business Staff
L. D. WHARTON...........Circulation Manager
H. D. BURKE...............Assistant Circulation Manager
A. THOMPSON.............Subscription Manager
J. Y. ALEXANDER..........Advertising Manager
T. C. McSWAIN.............Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON............Service Manager
W. H. LYON.................Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
J. M. APPLEBY
J. D. LAWS
M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
L. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

One month of the final term has slipped by, and one month more will see the gala event of the
spring—Junior Speaking. Junior Speaking is the occasion by which all passage of time is measured. All roads lead to Rome.

The class of ’26 has been making preparations ever since coming back last fall. The successful way in which they
conducted the lyceum courses to make money to help cover the financial end, argues well for the success of the
Easter holidays.

Sixteen out of twenty-two is the Wildcat cage record. The Wake Forest game Saturday night provided a perfect ending to
one of the most successful seasons in years.

Few players in the state can equal Tom Anderson’s record of two hundred and nineteen points. The Red and Black
center played a consistent game throughout the whole season.

Baseball practice has at last started. The great national pastime is underway once more and the dopesters are busy figuring
out the Wildcat chances in the state race. If the Red and Black squad can find its batting eye, they
may furnish stiff opposition in the championship race.

Tuesday night the six men who will represent the Red and Black on the platform against Wake Forest and the
Michigan Aggies were chosen. Davidson has an enviable debating record, and the two teams will have their hands full taking
care of the opposition. We have confidence in the ability of the teams selected.

The March winds do blow. After the mild February, winter has taken a new lease on life, and bids fair
to eclipse all previous cold wave records. Boil one day and freeze the next seems to be the order of
the winter. But we should worry since Easter doesn’t come until the second week in April.

Track and tennis are starting to make their bid for supremacy, along with the good old game of baseball, to
say nothing of spring football. The merchants of the town have donated liberally to the class meet to be held
this afternoon. A large number should compete and give Coach Tilson a line on the material from which he has
to draw.

HEAVEN AS KIPLING SEES IT
A Place Where “Those Who Served His World” Meet “The Master of Every Trade”
Hear Professor Carl Wachter’s Interpretation of Kipling, March 20

Where is Heaven? What purpose animates them? Do they see God? Do they love His company? Is their life devoid
of adventure? What is the wisdom of heaven-dwellers? We will let Rudyard Kipling deal with these questions, questions which every
human asks, and questions which he answers to the satisfaction of red-blooded men. Who lives there? In what is probably
Kipling’s most serious poem, written in memory of his deceased brother-in-law, Wolcott Ballestier, he gives a description of life on
the other side, which is wonderfully majestic and compelling. The poem is entitled, “Dedication to the Barrack-Room Ballads.”

Where is Heaven? Heaven is “beyond the path of southmost sun,” further than ever “planet flared or erring star-dust swirled.”

Who Lives There? In Heaven shall dwell those “who fought and sailed and ruled and loved and made our world.”
They are “purged of pride” and “cleansed of base desire, sorrow and lust and shame,” and enjoy the company of
those who walked on earth “in humbleness and gentleness and honor and clean mirth.”

What Purpose Animates Them? It is “their will to serve or be still, as fitteth their Father’s praise.”

Do They See God? Yes. “Oftentimes cometh the Great Lord God, Master of every trade, And tells them tales of
His daily work, Of Eden’s newly made, And they rise to their feet As He passes by— Gentlemen unafraid.”

Do They Love His Company? Yes. Not only is it their will to serve Him, but they are of those
who “praise their God,” because “they served His World.”

Is Their Life Devoid of Adventure? No. “It is theirs to sweep thru The ringing deep, Where Israel’s outposts are,
Or buffet a path thru the pit’s red wrath, When God goes out to war, Or hang with reckless seraphim
On the tail of a red-maned star.”

What Wisdom Have They Learned? They have learned: “to take their mirth in the joys of earth” for they “dare
not mourn for her pain.” They “Know of toil and the end of toil,” and they know God's law is
plain.” So they “whistle the Devil to make them sport, who know that sin is vain.”

CONVICTIONS

The man who has the courage to stand up for what he thinks is right is always respected and admired
in any society. He may not have the agreement of everyone in his opinions, but he has what is worth
far more—respect. Courage is necessary at all times, courage to stand up for beliefs which others may ridicule. But ridicule
often hides the deepest respect, and as time goes on the ridicule ceases and respect grows.

Davidson prides herself on the development of character, which after all is the prime requisite of manhood. Here, as in
any school, a man faces every test at some time or other, and if he meets them squarely is made
a better man because of the experience. But it is after leaving college, that a man sees less of high
idealism and more of the cold, hard facts of life. In life, he is often faced with the conflict between
money and a future and his convictions. Then it is that the real stuff in him is shown.

A few days ago the papers carried the following headlines, “Pat Crawford Refuses to Play Sunday Ball.” At Davidson Pat
was for four years one of the mainstays of the Wildcat diamond outfit, which he captained one year. He was
also in his Senior year president of the Y. M. C. A. and respected by every man on the campus
for his Christian ideals. Pat believes that it is wrong to play baseball on Sunday, and he has stood by
his conviction in spite of the fact that by so doing he drops out of class A baseball and possibly
a chance to go to the majors. A possible chance of “going up” to the big top is one which
few could resist. Whether Sunday baseball is right or wrong is a question which we will not argue. The big
thing is that conviction won over money and possible fame. “Organized baseball would be better for a few more like
him,” is the comment of one of the sporting editors of the state. By his action, Pat has not only
won a victory over self and shown himself to be a “big leaguer” in the highest sense of the word,
but he has won the respect of all. May conviction always win.

Elections will begin in a couple of weeks and by the fifteenth of April the old officers will fade out.of
the picture, and turn over the reins of government to their successors. Whatever we do, the time always comes for
others to take our place, for the world and time wait for no one.

The earthquake in New York the other night jolted a prominent Senior out of his bed. He woke up to
find his bed shaking, and as the door was locked and the freshman was safe in his bed, he put
two and two together and decided it must be an earthquake. We are glad to note that he didn’t attribute
the phenomenon to the spirits. There are plenty of nuts on the campus without adding a Spiritualist to the list.

WARREN COX WRITES OF EXPERIENCES IN ORIENTAL TRAVEL

A letter has just been received from Warren Cox, '24, the Davidson College representative at Hangchow College, in which he
tells of some of his impressions and experiences. Part of the letter is as follows:

“In regard to China, and me. I have learned a lot more in the three months that I have been
out here than I realized was unknown when I left college. Seeing the ‘other half’ world makes one more tolerant
of other peoples, and more intolerant of the American ideas of dominance. The missionaries had implanted such pictures in my
mind of the poor, starving, unhappy people out here that my mind had to undergo quite a change when I
found that they are just as happy as we are; that their home life is in many respects much better
than ours; that their system of morals makes Christianity stand on a much higher plane in China than it is
usually in America; that even though they do eat with chopsticks and wear long gowns, and stand their umbrellas upside
down, they have just as much right to those practices as we have to the ones of eating on a
nice clean tablecloth, or taking BOTH hands to eat with (like gluttons), or eating so much beef and mutton, like
savages. Did you know that Americans had an odor? Well, you ask the Chinese and you will find that they
have ‘a most peculiar odor!’ They say it comes from eating so much meat and drinking so much milk. Americans
don’t commonly think of themselves as possessing such an abominable thing.

“Am planning to take a trip somewhere during Chinese New Year. Had thought of going to the Philippines but found
it cost too much. Then planned a trip to Mukden, via Dairen, and Korea, but am afraid that that will
be too cold. Hope to go somewhere, though. Summer after next, if I can get a good traveling companion, I
am planning (or looking forward to) going up the Yangtze through the gorges. It’s hard to realize that the trip
will cover five thousand miles and take three or four months, and there are plenty of robber bands up there,
etc. Don’t you want to come along and join the party?

“Give my regards to all the Davidsonians. Surely wish I could be back with you this year. I find myself
rather busy however with learning plenty of chemistry.”

Red McComb’s Latest

I will now exonerate you with a discharming little smile-maker, entitled: “Because of the high price of eggs I call
my hen, McDuff, and whenever I see her, I say, ‘Lay on, McDuff.’”

“What’s the matter, little boy? Why are you crying?”

“Mama’s gone and drowned all the little kittens.”

“Dear me! That’s too bad.”

“Yep, she—boo-hoo—promised me I could do it.”

She Lived in the Country

Diamond Dick McCarthy will now render us his most immaculate little ditty, entitled, “I call my sweetie Velvet, because she’s
aged in the wood.”

Chaff

As ’25 Wrote to His Girl in ’20

“Jaybirdsville, Semptimbry 14, 1920

Deer mAriE,

I retch hear yestiddy ok. Hope thet I retched here with you felin’ as fine as whin I left you.
Keep the old Sookie good and don’t lett th ecafe dye.

yrs. trooly, Jule.”

As he recently wrote an unknown female correspondent after a Davidson Cross-word course:

“Davidson, March 5th.

Dear Ruth,

It behooves me now that I must in my turn contemplate excoriating you with this most supreme effort at an
epistularly concoction dedicated to a fair (?) damsel of the Barker clan who bears the Christian nomen above. Therefore, I
meekly approach the bowered shrine of said fair one and intimidate her with these few pages of intrepid reading matter,
soliciting her perusal and, ultimately, if such seems to her good knowledge best, a prompt reply.

In connection with benevolence in writing you these notes, I may say that it was neither my intent nor purpose
to enter the ring as an ardent opponent of Broyles, but just to send a few words to Georgia since
I am able to write but a couple of thousand daily to a beautiful miss in South Georgia. I find
it such a little bit of trouble to cogitate that amount for reading or writing matter that the effervescent spirit
of my Waterman’s instills in me the philanderous desire to eke out a few syllabic expressions to one who can
write me other than the South Georgia epistles. I negate that the joy of those letters at all intimidates me,
but I find that in variety is found the spice of life and my fastidious tastes decree to me the
use of an abundance of peppers and other spices. Therein is variety a welcome adjunct, readily acceptable in my box.

In regard to the revelation of my personal identity, I find that romance and dramatic touch are added when there
is a spirit of intrinsic mystery commingled with the contemporaneous course of events. Herein lies the secret of the initials,
‘J. R. B.’ That is I, in personam. If my name were suddenly revealed to you, you would not know
but that it were a fallacious representation of trustworthy facts utterly imprecarious and unlimited imaginative source. I am donor to
you of a chance to use your ingenuity that you may learn of those indicative letters. In your city is
a man of jurisprudence, a practitioner of the convivial judgment and ethics of one Blackstone who instituted the ten commandments
of procedure for each forensic fray of legal nature. This practitioner, one Buster Lawson, may reveal to you the missing
portions of the name, ‘J. R. B.’ provided you refer this minute matter to his scholarly self.

‘Darling boy’ is the term that you applied to this miserable wretch. How emblazoned with false pride I am at
such flattery. I suppose that, as a reciprocal measure, I should speak of you as ‘darling girl.’ Of course I
realize that you are none other than that, but wise discretion informs me as to the prudence of such a
step. I will soothe my ardor by terming you just ‘dear.’ It was with magnanimous pleasure that I received and
read your missile of postal art and devolved the pulsating plan of reciprocal reaction consummating in this tragic effort of
multifarious phrases.

However, now, for the past three days I have felt the curse of infirmity of the flesh. I have experienced
an obstreperous conglomeration of sensations to such an extent that I feel like old man Satan himself before daybreak on
a cloudy ‘antermeridian.’

I do not in the least object to your capabilities as a talker, for, as a matter of fact, I
am a comparatively good listener. Since I will revert to the role of reader in our correspondence, I can stop
and re-commence at my own behest. Don’t feel that I will be in the least offended by the priggishness of
your volubility, for I, myself, detest mere fluctuations of weather reports and brief treatises on popular cosmetics as compounded into
but a few phrases of detestable brevity. I enjoy indulging in the perusal of real big, fat, ‘fleshy,’ corpulent, magnanimous
epistles. In fact, I am almost persuaded to say that, if your reply does not attain double the proportions assumed
by this missile, I will be utterly chagrinned and feel disinclined to indulge further in the play. For the themes
of our essayistic correspondence, let us choose whatever themes you may select, treating on morals, love, or any species of
subject material whatsoever. I pray that you will feign be not offended at the confining brevity of this note, but
will you advantageously employ your spare moments in the gruesome task of devolving some reply to this note to

An admiring Don Juan,

J. R. B.”

Query: Are Davidsonian Cross-word puzzles beneficial?

C. F. M.
