4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925

— The Davidsonian —

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15

“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
A. E. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher Editor
Associate Editor
Alumni Editor
Athletic Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE........Advertising Manager
A. THOMPSON........Circulation Manager
Y. ALEXANDER........Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN........Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER........Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON........Vice Manager
W. H. LYNCH........State Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
J. M. GARRISON
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
J. P. GLADNEY
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. APPLEBY
J. D. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGA
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
E. P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DEE
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

THE END OF THE ROAD

With this issue, the 1924-25 Davidsonian staff comes to the end of its road. For one year it has been our pleasure to put into tangible form the life on the campus, to present the happenings of the school year. Athletics, debating, studies, lectures, elections, and all the numerous activities of college life have had their place in the news columns.

In addition to the serious side of college life, we have given a place in the paper to the humorous and more personal side of life on the campus. If there are any, and there may be a few, who feel that a blot has been cast upon their life by mention in the Peanut Parcher or Chaff, we are sorry. We have tried to give publicity where publicity is due. The friends of those who may have been over-mentioned in the above-named departments have been more than kind in bringing to the attention of the editors incidents suitable for their columns.

In other departments, there may be organizations or individuals who feel that they have been slighted or that due importance has not been given them in the placing of articles. Editors are not infallible, and we know that mistakes have been made. Other things than importance sometimes have to be taken into consideration in the arrangement and make-up of the paper, and we have consciously slighted no one. If for these or any other reason anyone feels that an injustice has been done, we are sorry—but we have no apologies to make.

We hope that we have fulfilled satisfactorily the trust which the student body has placed in us. If not, we have tried our hardest, and that is all that could be expected of us.

It is with regret that we give up the reins of government to the incoming staff, a regret, however, tinged with the brightest hopes of success for the new editors and managers. Many of us, who have worked together during the past year, will continue the work next year in positions of greater responsibility. Several, who feel that their field of usefulness is greater in other channels, sever their nominal connection with the paper to work on the Quips and Cranks and Magazine, and in other forms of student activity. We say nominal connection for we believe that every man who has been connected with the paper will always have its best interests at heart.

There is still a third class, who in vacating their places on the staff are taking their first step toward fading out of the picture of student life. To these men, the years of work on the paper have been a pleasant experience. They have been years of opportunity for service. And in future years, the experience will be of value to those who were engaged in it, in proportion as service to their fellow students and to the college was their aim.

As a whole, what we have done, or what we should have done, it is all over now. The product stands as the measure of our success or failure. We have tried to keep The Davidsonian up to the standard set for it by its founders, that of being The Livest Wire on the Hill.

So it is with regret and hope that we turn over the paper to our successors. Life must go on. We know the infusion of new blood will make for a better and more serviceable Davidsonian.

THE NEWCOMERS

We welcome you with open arms. To you, we entrust the ideals of service and honor which the spirit of Davidson gives to The Davidsonian. Every paper has its ideals, and we hope that in the future you may raise these ideals and make them your guide in the management of the paper.

Experience is a great asset. You, who assume your responsibilities, have had it in some measure, and we feel sure that by your work The Davidsonian will be a bigger and better paper during the coming year. We are happy in the fact that, barring unforeseen accidents, we can turn over to you the paper clear of encumbrances. Work will be required, and more than that, a spirit of cooperation between the business and the editorial staff; between the editorial staff and the reporters’ club. There is only one common ground upon which cooperation is possible—the best interests of Davidson—and we feel sure that you have them at heart. Luck to you!

THE MODERN TREND

There appeared in last week’s Chaff several paragraphs which may reflect wrongly the spirit of the campus. Chaff is not a portrayer of fact, but merely a space reserved for the ebullitions of brainstormy students. Rarely has anything objectionable appeared in its columns, and we are sorry that last week's column contained anything of a questionable nature.

To the outsider, knowing nothing of the bunk which weekly fills the column, there might have been given a false picture of Davidson as a whole. He may have regarded it as a satire upon existing conditions. Such is not the case. It was merely, as Chaff has always claimed to be, the product of a wandering brain. A vivid imagination coupled with the tenets of modern thought did the trick.

There is no question about it; times have changed. Boys and girls walk over the campus holding hands, which as we have often been reminded, just wasn’t done in the old days. Girls are acquiring the art of cigarette smoking. Women, from a plane above men, are rapidly bringing themselves to an equal plane. Certainly, there is no more moral objection to a woman smoking than to a man. We hope, however, that women won't take up cigarette smoking on the streets, and that they'll keep off of cigars and pipes.

There is certainly a golden mean. We certainly must respect the woman we love. Cigarette smoking is certainly not a criterion by which to judge, but merely an illustration of the trend of today. We believe in freedom, but freedom from restraint suddenly acquired is likely to lead to Bolshevism. Moderation is in order. Look at their faces and judge for yourself.

SHADOWS

Honors should be striven for. If they were not worth the effort, why should they be recognized? In every phase of college life, there is recognition for the man who distinguishes himself. Scholarship, athletics, debating, leadership, literary activities, and other phases of activity all have their reward in the offices which they bring as well as in the various honor societies for distinction in special branches.

To be elected to an office, a man must have the confidence of the organization which he is to lead and serve; to make the Honor Roll, a man must put in the hard study which means for him the mastery of the subject and knowledge; to make the debating team, a man must learn how to speak and think clearly; to make his mark in literary work, a man must by constant practice improve his style and master the subject in hand; to make an athletic team, a man must give the best that is in him and work, not for himself—that comes incidentally in| every activity—but for the coach, the team, and the school; and so on through every activity of college life. To those who succeed there comes honor, the public recognition of work well done. But to some, the honor does not come. It is in reach and then slips out of their grasp. The failure to secure it comes as a bitter disappointment. Then is the time that tests a man’s soul. But after all, what are honors? They are merely the shadow of reality. The reality consists in the work and the character and personality developed by that work. Hard work on the athletic field, service to the college and the student body through work in the various activities is what counts.

Whatever else we may have wanted to do or will ever be remembered. Once over, can never come again, but it is true that public recognition counts, but personality and character can win without the recognition. In life as in college it may be for some that recognition will not come, but the world is wide and there is a chance for all. The fault in many cases lies in the perspective. Some men strive for the shadows and attain the reality; others attain neither. Some strive for the reality and gain the shadows along with the reality; others fail to get the shadows. While the attainment of honors is pleasant, it is the development of character which counts. Some walk in the sun and have a shadow; others walk under cloudy skies and have no shadow. But to the man without true character there can be no real shadow, for there must be some reality to cast a shadow. College is the training ground for life, and to him who puts his best into it there comes the reality of true character developed by hard work. It is much more pleasant when the sun shines, but we can still live and be men without it. But, after all, shadows are only shadows.

THE FUTURE

The future holds in store for us what we put into it. Every man is free to choose for himself. We, by our decisions, determine our future. It is the greatest responsibility which we have. It trains men in the higher things of life, in the things which make life more than a mere existence. The work of college is to train men in appreciation of the best in life is what the college can give to each of us. How few take advantage of the opportunity. If we fail to find that life is not more than existence we fail in our aim, and he who succeeds may measure his success by what he gets out of life. Paradoxical as this may seem, this comes in proportion as a man puts his whole self into life—the service of God and his fellow man. Doctor Pratt has just concluded his meetings in regard to life work. He has shown man’s proper relationship to God in regard to the choice of a life work. But whatever others may say or advise, the ultimate choice is left up to us.

JUNIOR WEEK

One more week to go, until the school bells stop tolling for five days, a period of recreation much looked forward to by the students. The class of '26 takes the stage for the biggest social event of their college course. Nothing but gaiety and mirth can be expected at such a time, and the program mapped out will insure this. If the weather man is auspicious—when has a Junior Speaking been known without rain—all will be well. The class of '26 eagerly states that the jinx has been broken and that five days of unalloyed happiness will result. We hope so. Go to it, Juniors.

DIAMOND DUST

The Wildcat ball team made an inauspicious start against the Oak Ridge club, and then to make matters worse, one of the players contracted the mumps. The prospect for a successful season is certainly not very bright. Whatever the team may or may not be, however, they are due 100 percent support from the student body. They are our team. If we can do any better than they we ought to be out there doing it instead of talking about it. The team is fighting against big odds and with the backing of the student body and that old Davidson spirit they can come through. We don’t mean by “come through” that they will be a wonder team, winning all their games, but we mean that they will form a team, a fighting team, a team of which Davidson will be proud and which we will be proud to call our own. Support that team.

MR. JOHN R. TODD

At the public ceremony of Omicron Delta Kappa, Mr. John R. Todd, of New York, will make the address. Mr. Todd spoke here last year to a full audience, and those who heard him will, no doubt, wish to hear him again. He is one of the thirty-six alumni and friends of the college who will be initiated at that time. No speaker could give a more forceful address on such an occasion than Mr. Todd. We welcome him as a true friend of Davidson.

Tuesday, March 17, the Seniors met at an enjoyable smoker, which called back memories of the Soph Banquet two years before. Every two weeks from now till the end of their college life the Seniors will meet to renew the associations which four years of fellowship have strengthened. As Commencement draws nearer the ties of friendship are strengthened, and in later years college days, friendships formed there will live on through life.

CHAFF

YOU KNOW MY BUDDY is ONE smart guy. I AND HIM went ONE DAY OUT for a WALK TO FIND some DATES WHO could appreciate OUR SHIEKISH ways, but we COULD NOT find any to SUIT US. SO my buddy SAYS TO me, he says, “LET’S GO in and GET A DRINK—” MY BUDDY is a SMART GUY he is. “OF SODA WATER.” OH! I said all right. WELL NEITHER I nor him HAS ANY JACK with us or else WHERE. BUT my buddy claims TO HAVE a swell idea. SO WE go inside. HE SAYS to the GUY, he says, “GIMME TWO cigars.” THAT WHICH is done then. THEN HE SAYS, “NO, I believe I'LL swap these cigars for a COUPLE OF drinks instead.” WHICH IS done then. AND WE start out, AND THE guy SAYS, “Pay me for THE DRINKS,” he says. MY BUDDY then he says, “I GAVE YOU the cigars for THE DRINKS, didn’t I.” “WELL PAY for the CIGARS then.” “OH, I GAVE you BACK the cigars, so WE ARE EVEN, we are even.” MY BUDDY IS ONE smart guy.

A stroll over the campus as done by the “DAY BY DAY” journalist: Springtime. Trees putting out everywhere. Crowds of college youths. Flap-legged trousers, and gay sweaters. Horse-shoe pitching teams; mighty tame. Water thrown from dormitory upon astonished Freshman. The barracks need a new coat of paint. I notice that Thomson automobile has been removed. Jethro running from an occupant of East. New Chambers Building. Bus for Charlotte. Boys going to spend the old man’s money. Ice-cream cones and chocolate bars. Merry horsing among a group of students. Aroma of cheese sandwiches. Mail time. Letters from the girl; letters from home, letters with money, and letters without money. A clothing agent. Three professors in conversation. Wonder what the English lesson is for tomorrow. The supper bell. Streams of boys from the buildings. And so the walk is ended.

A POEM

(Written by Spider Webb the morning after the Soph banquet)

An eight letter word meaning tomcat,
Who put soap in my shoe?
Three rousing cheers for Abe Lincoln,
Razor blades, red ink and glue.

The mink is a fish-eating animal.
And movies cost ten cents each;
She had brown eyes like an angel,
You can have all I can't reach.

Frogs go round and round in the likker,
Exactly how loud is a shout?
If cigars cost 5 cents each
What makes the lights go out?

F. K. B.

ODE ON THE MISREPRESENTATIONS

RECOLLECTED FROM EARLY CHILDHOOD

An eight letter word meaning polecat,
Who put soap in my shoe?
Three rousing cheers of Abe Lincoln,
Razor blades, red ink, and glue.

The mink is a fish-eating animal,
Movies cost 15c each;
She had brown eyes like an angel,
You can have all I cannot reach.

Frogs swim round in the likker,
Exactly how loud is a shout?
If cigars only cost 5c each
What makes the lights go out?

F. K. B.

“What yo’ got in that little black bag?”
“Them’s my instruments. I’m a veterinary.”
“Quit yo’ kiddin’, man. Yo’ ain’t never been in no wah!”