4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE.................Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN................Business Manager

Editorial Staff
F. SMITH........................Assistant Managing Editor
C. W. BRANCH................Assistant Managing Editor
H. B. PRICE.........................Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW.........................Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS.........................Alumni Editor
L. D. WHARTON.........................Athletic Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON.........................Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN.........................Subscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON.........................Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH.........................Typist

Reporters’ Club
B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
J. M. APPLEBY
J. D. LAW
H. M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
GARNETT McMILLAN
D. M. CALHOUN
J. E. MOORE
W. T. COVINGTON
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. KE.
C. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DEC
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Examinations—with all that they mean—begin a week from today.

The past week has seen Wildcat athletic stock rise still higher with the double victory over the Duke quint.

No better examples of the Wildcat fighting spirit can be cited than the last victory over Trinity and the first win over Duke. In each case, a fighting Red and Black team came back and won in the face of seemingly overwhelming defeat. On the gridiron, Trinity led 12-7 at the end of the third quarter but the final whistle found them trailing 13-21. On the hardwood floor, with but eight minutes of play remaining, Duke led 25-13 but 14 Davidson points reversed the lead, and the Wildcats won 27-25. It was one of the greatest comebacks ever staged by a Wildcat team.

The Wildcats are pointing now for the Carolina game at Chapel Hill Saturday. That constitutes the most important game on the Wildcat schedule. A win would leave the Wildcats in the race for State honors while a loss would make Carolina and Wake Forest the chief contenders for the honor.

Tonight the orators of the Senior Class speak to determine which four men shall have the right to speak at commencement for the Oratorical medal. A large number are competing and the occasion should be an interesting one.

The Davidsonian has at last succumbed to the crossword puzzle craze and prints one in its columns this week for the first time. We believe The Davidsonian is one of the first college papers in the country, and certainly the first in the South to join the ranks. Fred Smith, managing editor of the paper, is responsible for this week’s puzzler.

The P. C. Student Body believes in a last taste of freedom. Certain amendments to the constitution were passed before Christmas, to go into effect immediately. Upon the return from the holidays, it was found that many of the present councilmen objected to taking their new oath. It was then decided that the amendments should not go into effect until the election of the new councilmen in May. The Blue Stocking, the college weekly, in commenting upon the action says:

“The compromise may be translated, ‘not three days more of grace,’ but four months more of liquor. That’s the spirit, boys.”

EFFICIENCY AND INDIVIDUALISM

In this modern age, efficiency has become the keynote to which every man must respond, and with which every man must keep in tune. Society has become a highly-organized unit, a machine into which each man fits like a cog, working not as a private entity, but as a mere part of the machinery of society, sacrificing his individuality to a greater or lesser degree to the whims and caprices of a society which is ever demanding more and more of the time and life of its members. Efficiency is the ruler of the age, a ruler who relentlessly absorbs its subjects into itself, making them living exponents of its law. Centuries ago the belief in individualism changed to nationalism, and now the trend is toward an internationalism of outlook on life with its varied problems. But neither nationalism nor internationalism is antagonistic to the development of the individual. The crux of the whole situation lies in our relation to efficiency. Efficiency should be our servant and not our master. As a servant, efficiency is of great value to us in the development of our individual abilities and talents. As a master, or even as a fetish, it becomes an altar upon which we sacrifice our lives, with their wealth of individuality and distinctiveness.

We admire distinctiveness in our possessions, in the make of the car which we drive, in the house in which we live. We shrink from the rows upon rows of houses in the factory district, alike in every detail, and yet in our own lives most of us submerge our individuality completely in a pitiful desire to conform to the dictates of custom and fashion.

Efficiency can either make or break us. If we control it, we may use it in the furthering of our visions and dreams; if it controls us, we may develop into mere machines, forgetful of ourselves, working only for a material goal—money, power—forgetful of the greater things which make up life and constitute the true test of success. The greatest thing in life is not the acquisition of wealth or power, but the development of the individual so that he may best serve society, and in so doing acquire happiness, that will-o’-the-wisp which ever flits beyond the reach of the man whose god is efficiency.

Happiness is the goal toward which, at some time or other in their lives, all men strive, but which few achieve. It is a vague something which comes indirectly to those who are brave enough to hold on to their idealism and individuality in the face of a materialistic world which goes on its efficient way unable to know the joys which it is missing. Never should the false gods of efficiency be allowed to overwhelm and subdue the divine spark of individuality which rests in every man. When man’s efficiency blots out his individuality he ceases to be a man and becomes a mere automaton. With efficiency as our master or fetish, we fail; with efficiency as our slave, we can achieve success.

MORE ABOUT DUKE

The conditions under which Trinity College changed its name to Duke University have excited much comment, both favorable and unfavorable, from the press of the South and of the entire nation. These comments are not confined to the daily press or to the religious leaders concerned, but are heard on every hand.

Two college weeklies, The Hornet of Furman University and The Hampden-Sidney Tiger, in their issues of January, discuss the matter editorially. The Hornet, in a rather caustic editorial, condemns the action of the Board of Trustees of Trinity College in changing the name of the institution, and then criticizes Mr. Duke for imposing the conditions under which the bequest was made, evidently failing to grasp the true conditions and situation under which the bequest was made. The editorial follows:

“Not very long since we sat at the feet of one of the South’s most able Christian speakers, and heard him expound on this subject: ‘What’s Your Name?’ in which he showed that in the old days, more so than now, everything was in a name, and men were given names to signify some inherent characteristic.

“It is sad to relate that times do change in some respects, and in many cases today the name means too little. Yet how many of us are willing to assume a new name, and live under it the remainder of our lives? Only the opposite sex are practically unanimously in favor of this, and because of an ordinance, holy in God’s sight. The basis of this change is love, and certainly money plays a small part in all cases of change of name; yet, there are some who would not only sell their name, but like Esau, their birthright as well.

“Recently the Board of Trustees of what was Trinity College, North Carolina, by a unanimous vote, decided to change the name of the institution to Duke University, in honor of Mr. James B. Duke, who had given a large sum of money to the institution. This action has been the subject of much discussion and criticism. Some have praised the Board for its action, while others have condemned it. The fact remains that the name has been changed, and the institution is now known as Duke University.”9 commented editorially on the subject. Both papers were emphatic in their statement that such a change in name could not but take place at their respective institutions, but their views in regard to the change which was made were radically different. The Hornet, after giving reasons to prove that Furman would never change its name to acquire such a gift, merely states that such a course was entirely justified in the case of Trinity: 

“However, in the case of Trinity College it is different. Trinity was named for no particular person, and while that school has tradition behind it, change of its name will not affect the traditions of the institution. Furthermore, Mr. Duke has been one of the greatest benefactors of Trinity, now Duke University, and it is altogether proper that the man who has done so much for the North Carolina school should be honored in such a manner.”

The Hampden-Sidney Tiger, on the other hand, takes a strangely antagonistic view toward the change of name at the Methodist institution. In an editorial entitled "What's In a Name?" it first scores the Trustees of Trinity for changing the name of the institution to Duke University—to honor the father of a millionaire who in turn would pour out his millions of dollars, acquired honestly, no doubt, but by the toil and sweat of other men, on the institution under the condition that the name would thus be changed.

“Well, what’s in a name, anyway? What’s in that name? Trinity? They say that the name Trinity didn’t mean anything much, anyhow. No? Only the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost. Of course, they don’t mean much in this day and time to the intellectually proud. Then this must be a sign of the times, institutions of the South losing their spiritualism, to be replaced by materialism.

“What would be our price to present-day millionaires for replacing the name Hampden-Sidney by their title? Certainly, this name carries none of the meaning that the one mentioned above carries, but what meaning it does carry in Liberty (after the patriots for whom it is named), not to mention those things so cherished by us on account of history, is a bulwark against such a transaction, and Hampden-Sidney, in our eyes, would best remain poor and struggling all the days to eternity than to sell her birthright for a ‘mess of pottage.’

“Mr. Duke has doubtless succeeded in an undertaking that would have pleased his earthly father, but whether or not he has pleased his heavenly Father is a question.”

In writing the scathing article quoted above, several salient points in the case were entirely overlooked. For many years Mr. Duke has been the benefactor of Trinity College. Already, he has given millions for the needs and uses of the school. Now, Mr. Duke wishes to establish a lasting memorial in memory of his father, Washington L. Duke. As to the nature of this memorial, he decides upon no inanimate monument, but upon a University, with its educational advantages to the youth of the section, its great possibilities of service, and with its work of aiding in placing the South on an educational parity with the other sections of the country. All this he decides upon as a memorial to the father whom he loved and honored so highly. Naturally, his mind turns toward Trinity with which both he and his father before have been so intimately connected. There stands already a monument to the generosity of his father. If Trinity wished it, it would be far easier to transform it into a great university than to build one out of nothing, but Mr. Duke was not ready to be dictatorial, nor could he be. When the bequest was made, Mr. Duke merely announced his intention of setting aside $5,000,000 for the founding of a university to be named in memory of his father. This university was to be established somewhere in North Carolina. To Trinity College, already closely connected with the Duke family, he gave the option of changing its name and receiving the $5,000,000. He left the matter entirely in the hands of the governing board of the college. Is there anything in such an action to justify anyone in the statement that “Mr. Duke has doubtless succeeded in an undertaking that would have pleased his earthly father, but whether or not he has pleased his heavenly Father is a question.” Does the acceptance of this gift mean, as The Tiger seems to imply, that the Methodist institution has lost its spiritualism at one fell stroke, and lapsed into a state of sordid materialism? Can it be said that by this action of the Board of Trustees, it sold its birthright for a mess of pottage?

Chaff EXAMINATIONS Questions

Since there are only a few more days left before exams begin, the Chaffer wishes to be of as much assistance as possible to all concerned; therefore he has decided to publish the Applied Math questions, as will be given on the fatal day. They run as follows (answers below):

1. If it takes a wooden-legged jackass forty-seven seconds flat to make a mile on a slippery pavement, how much will it cost to erect a memorial to the Royal Order of the Knights of the Watermelon Patch?
2. Provided there are only one million, two hundred and eighty-six thousand, nine hundred and forty-eight gallons of water in Lake Erie, and it is now about fourteen minutes after nine, what is the price of hundred-pound blocks of ice in Alaska?
3. If it takes a yard of thread to sew a button on a crap-shooter’s overcoat, how many suits of clothes are there in an elephant’s trunk?
4. A is forty-seven yards from B. B picks up a piece of Irish confetti and hurls same at A, striking him on the Boneypart, knocking him out. From all possible angles, what would be the price of cotton by the bale on a warm frosty morning in New Dumberland?
5. If a bow-legged bluejay swims thirteen miles in a day, how many fools are there in this world?

Answers:
1. It depends upon the condition of the patch.
2. The same as the distance from you to the next fellow.
3. That would be telling.
4. Ask Dad. He knows.
5. One more than you think there are.

Impressions of a big city by one who has never been there:

CHARLOTTE, N. C. By Ed. U. Cation

Charlotte, N. C—The home of J. B. Duke, who has a big water squirter in his front yard. The home of the Halambra Theatre, where bull, calves, and chickens abound. Tryon Street—where you never get to try on nothing; you don’t even try. Union depot, only there’s no union, for the trains run twenty-four hours a day. Trade Street, but they never trade it off. Central hotel—but you don’t recognize it because there are no telephone operators there. Mint Street, where not even grass can grow. It can’t get up through the concrete. Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company, without a church anywhere near it. Bon Marche, where everything is just as Marche as any other place, and where the salesgirls all look alike. They have a Queen’s College, a King’s Business College, but no Princess Theatre. A revolving fragment of the Paleozoic era collects no substantial amount of cryptogamous vegetation (a rolling stone gathers no moss).

G. McM.

Much thought must be exercised before an opinion is expressed, one way or the other, as to the wisdom and good judgment of the Board of Trustees in their action. A great responsibility was placed on that body. They had to decide whether they should change their name and receive an outright gift of $5,000,000 and an annual income of $500,000, or whether they should hold their name and lose the gift, with all the good which that money is potentially able to accomplish. Who can say that they sold their birthright by changing the name and accepting the gift? Certainly, it is not for us to criticize or judge. By its incorporation as Duke University, the institution has widened its scope of service, and bids fair to become one of the greatest educational institutions in the country. We do not believe that Davidson, any more than Furman or Hampden-Sidney, would have changed her name to receive such a gift, but all such beliefs will ever remain in the realm of conjecture. We are certainly not in a position to criticize Trinity for their action. The Trustees thought the matter out to a unanimous conclusion, and acted on their judgment. A great future lies ahead for Duke University.