THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 24, 1925

HUNGRY?? Home Cooked. Those tasty eats and delicious Punch for feeds and parties.

Columbia Theological Seminary offers:
- Scholarly Instruction
- Practical Training
- Spiritual Environment
- Helpful Contacts
- Missionary Zeal
- Evangelistic Fervor
- Sympathetic Co-operation
- Wholesome Food
- Comfortable Dormitories
- Reasonable Expenses
- Ideal Climate
- Atmosphere of Southern Culture
Correspondence Solicited

Anybody who loves a football scrap will be at the game with Wofford here Saturday. It’s going to be a good one. Everybody already knows that. If it is as good as it was last year it will be a scorcher—from a football and temperature standpoint combined.

Freshman Squad Has Some Flashy Men—Coach Not Optimistic Over Team Prospects

With the beginning of the second week of Freshman football practice, Coach Monk Mattox has been putting his Kittens through their first scrimmages. At present, little can be determined about the prospects of the team.

Class basketball is one of the sports in which each student and every class as a whole takes great interest. Keener competition could not be found or exhibited than that which promises to be this year, although there is a close race every year. If one should ask a member of the Senior class just what the prospects of his class were, he would say that the Seniors are going to be the probable winners.

Coach Mattox is conservative in his opinions. We won easily from Elon, but V. M. I. didn’t win so easily from Wofford. That says that Wofford is good. Our win over Elon would indicate that we have a fairly good team. With two teams of such rating matched against each other, there naturally follows the conclusion that a good game will be played.

However, he does state that he has some fast men and although the team will be lighter than last year’s Fresh team, he hopes to develop a driving team that will make up in speed what it lacks in weight. In the first encounters that the Fresh had, they appeared weak in holding the plunges of the varsity. This was attributed to the unorganized condition of the team as it had only started practice and no specialized teamwork had been developed.

To lose Sappenfield was a blow to the team—a hard blow. The only view to take, as we see it, is to accept it as a thing that was to be, and since it has happened it is best for us to get down to hard work and not let our hopes be diminished. That’s hard to do, but the team is going at it hard, and it is up to the student body to back them up.

The regular lineup that will compose the first team cannot be determined yet. The following is a list of the men who have been showing up exceptionally well: Ends: Powell, McClure, and Monk; tackles: Ritchie and Leftride. LeFever has been shifted from center to guard, where he is going strong, as are Johnson, a local boy, Homegreen, and Woodward. A real battle is taking place for center, where Kerr and Vaughn are having it nip and tuck.

As quarterback, Flinn has been given first choice, with Williams running him a close race. Sam Black, brother of the Wildcat varsity captain, and Smith, are both driving hard in the fullback position. Among the halfbacks, Kell and James are showing up exceptionally well. Both of them are good punters and are probably the best that the Fresh have. James is showing real speed, and besides being a good punter should make an excellent runner. Other halves showing good form are: Myers, Covington, King, Winebury, and Carr. Five other aspirants for berths that deserve mention are: Crawford, Gant, McGill, McConnell, and Vance.

The first game the Freshmen have...will be against the High Point College eleven on October 9. Gruelling drills on signals and hard scrimmaging will be the order of the day for the Fresh from now on, and when the time comes for that game to start, there should be eleven hard Fresh ready to scrap.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

It was said before the game that the Elon fray would give the coaches an opportunity to find out the strength of his team. We wonder if it did. Only four different plays were run; nothing new was tried, so you couldn’t see anything but straight football. The plucky Elonites were going strong just at the close of the game Saturday, and it seemed as if the Wildcats in there at the time were wondering what it was all about. The Christians completed several short passes and a pretty one for 18 yards.

Jim Hendrix is going to play quarterback. If he generals the team to victories, that is all we can ask. We believe that he can do it. He has a splendid knowledge of football, having played three years now, and under the critical eye of Coach Monk will develop into a splendid pilot. Dick Grey “kinder” stepped off a few yards Saturday when he clipped off a total of 136 yards in three runs. Made us think of the races of Jim Hendrix last year in Asheville, Winston-Salem, Charlotte, and Durham, particularly. If Jim has too big a task at quarter to carry the ball so much, then Dick will be called upon more.

Bob Crosland won the championship title of the city of Charlotte this summer, and with his lean, lanky form ought to be able to lambast a few tennis spheres for Davidson this year. We congratulate Bob, for he had some good opponents.

Again this year, however, the Juniors have lost some good men whose places will be difficult to fill. Tom Anderson and Andy Hewlett, who made the varsity team last season, are not eligible for class games. Neither Faucette nor Kiser are back this year, and those are heavy losses. Those remaining of last year’s champion team are: Simpson, Keerans, Calhoun, Goodykoontz, and Womack. There will be others who will be out when practice starts. The present Junior class team caused trouble its first year, and caused more trouble than any of the other teams could stand last year, and it is going to cause a lot this year.

The Soph class can be counted on for a strong team. They put up some strong competition last year as Freshmen and are going to be on the job again this season. It would be hard to say who is going to be on the team, but the following will be out, scrapping for a berth: Millner, Weld, Mills, Taylor, Ben Wilson, McCaulay, Withers, and several others.

The Freshman class is always the dark horse. Their strength cannot be as exactly prophesied as the other classes, but it is safe to say that they will be in the thick of the fight. At any rate, no team is going to have a cinch in any of the games.

HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

In College Display Room every Friday
10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.
Made Expressly for the College Man

If a captain of a team is supposed to be a pile-driver, then the Wildcats selected the right man when they chose Wick Black. He didn’t go but 55 yards in 12 plays. Furthermore, those were through the line, and still furthermore, he ran 12 out of 14 consecutive attacks.

Just now little is being said about the Freshman team, but they are trudging away down on Sprunt Field and will have their day. Several nice scraps are in progress out there for positions.

Some of the tennis boys are limbering up these sweltering days. They soon limber down, too. Remember, three new men are to be placed on the varsity tennis team this year.

GAMES SATURDAY
FIRST FALL SHOWING
SEPT. 24th

State
Carolina vs. Wake Forest.
N. C. State vs. Richmond (Friday).
Duke vs. Guilford.
Hampden-Sidney vs. Virginia.
Presbyterian vs. Clemson.
Furman vs. Newberry.
V. P. I. vs. Roanoke.
V. M. I. vs. E. & H.
W. & L. vs. Pitt.
Ga. Tech vs. Oglethorpe.

KEERANS & KING
ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Agents. In Phi Hall
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.

Mooresville Ice Cream Company
Wholesale Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick --- Eskimo Pies --- Stick and Fancy Creams --- Eskimo Pies
26-28 S. College St
Charlotte, N. C.

When You Need Candy See Us
Davidson, N. C.