THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

The Davidsonian | Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College

GREETINGS
To those fair visitors of Eastertide, who for five days change the Davidson campus to one of unsurpassing joy and
happiness and who live in our memories for years afterwards, we extend our best wishes of the season.

THE DAVIDSONIAN STAFF:
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH.................. Editor
HAROLD D. BURKE.......................... Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. CHOBRAN............................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON................ Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES.................... Assistant Managing Editor
W. C. MIDYETTE.................... Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER.................... Associate Editor
A. W. BOWIE.................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH........... Associate Editor
E. P. O'CONNOR.................... Alumni Editor

Business Staff (Pending)

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
M. APPLEBY
M. AUSTIN
C. L. BRAGAW
V. S. BROYLES
D. M. CALHOUN
W. T. WINGATE
E. P. O'CONNOR
R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

JUNIOR SPEAKING—WHOOPEE!
This issue of The Davidsonian marks the first trial of the newly elected staff in the arduous but pleasant work
of editing and publishing a real newspaper. The experience that they have gained will stand them in good stead at
this time.

Four baseball games played and four lost; that is our record up to date. To be sure, we would have
felt better to have won them all, but at least we have the satisfaction of knowing that we played hard
and clean in every game. That is what counts, anyway.

Today ushers in Junior Speaking with all the joys that the words suggest. The Junior class as a whole has
worked hard to make it a big success, and it will appreciate the presence of every man who can possibly
stay here. A program of fun has been arranged and there will be girls galore. Be there.

All the officers in the student body for the ensuing year have been elected, and the choice seems to be
a wise one. They have proved their worth many times in the past, and when problems come up during the
next year they will have the courage and conviction, backed by experience, to grapple with them. Theirs is a place
of responsibility, and it remains for the students to give them their whole-hearted support.

The soft and balmy days of beautiful springtime are here now. Why not bring our friend and mascot, the Wildcat,
out on the campus where all might gather around and gaze in admiration at the sleek coat and ferocious countenance
of his feline majesty. Really, a prolonged confinement in a steam-heated building, even with the solicitous care of such a
body-servant as Charlie, grows irksome to a wild animal accustomed to the wide open spaces where cats are cats, and
the ways of man are unknown.

The get-together banquet given by Professor Wachter to the members of the debating teams and prominent members of the literary
societies, was certainly inspiring to all who attended. Every one who attended received a new and better idea of the
value of public speaking in our college life. The address by Professor Wachter was a masterpiece of oratorical art, but
was nevertheless, lucid and convincing. He stressed the importance of the spirit in actuating the speech; the body and mind,
he pointed out, were useless unless prompted by the inner consciousness.

THE OPEN ROAD
In assuming the position of editor of The Davidsonian, the writer is deeply conscious of the honor and trust that
has been bestowed upon him. While some may weekly is a position of importance, both to the college and the
country at large. To make this paper the best in the South, and a leader in thought and action, will
be his motto.

The college newspaper has assumed a place of more and more importance in the collegiate world. It faithfully chronicles the
news events of the campus, tells of the activities of the alumni, and in spite of disaster and defeat, it
struggles bravely along, boosting the college for all it is worth, and never losing faith in its students.

The Davidsonian has ever stood squarely behind the college. It has always been for the advancement of things pertaining to
the progress of the institution, both in athletics and literary pursuits; and it intends to do this throughout the years
to come. But there is one thing that the present staff intends to do, and that is to make the
editorial page mean something to the student body. The editor does not intend to write editorials merely to fill up
space, nor to give blatant expression to silly sentimentalisms or weak-kneed and half-evolved thoughts. The policy of the editorial page
will be to stand for the truth in all things, and to treat them fearlessly, with justice and fair-dealing to
all. We will not stand back on any question, whatever or whomever it may involve. It will be our aim
to so arouse sentiment that it may be directed in the channels where it will do the most good, and
work for the best advantage of the college which we all love.

We will not resort to the so-called “yellow journalism,” but will simply endeavor to tell the straightforward truth, and nothing
but the truth. If things need remedying, we will give suggestions through the medium of the printed page and not
resort to subterfuges and underhand talk.

And lastly, the editorial staff needs the encouragement and support of the student body. We feel a just and pardonable
pride in “The Livest Wire on the Hill,” and are certain that the student body entertains the same feeling.

HAND-ME-DOWNS
The address at the O. D. K. initiation last Friday night by Mr. John R. Todd, of New York City
was a common-sense one, in every sense of the word. He spoke as a successful business man who knows men;
his address was brimful of practical suggestions which should be taken to heart by all those who heard him.

Mr. Todd stressed two so-called “mental mules” as he termed them, which prevent many from reaching the eminence which they
may desire. Those two hindrances were “hand-me-downs,” and “lack of faith in yourself.” The speaker lamented the fact that most
young men of today are too eager to accept worn-out truths and doctrines which are nothing else than hand-me-downs. He
said that it was a paradoxical statement to say that one should believe in the Bible and investigate each hand-me-down
before accepting it as a truth. The Bible says for one to prove all things and does not say for
us to remain satisfied with what other people hand down to us. That, as we see it, is the main
fault with the young people of today. They are either too self-satisfied or too lazy in mind to work along
original lines of thought and action. When problems arise that require original thinking, they are not prepared because they have
been long accustomed to following blindly in the footsteps in the ways of others who have gone before. The testing
of theories for one’s self does not imply necessarily a lack of faith or any attempt to gain an atheistic
viewpoint. Religion, philosophy, and business are nothing if it cannot stand the acid test of investigation. As Mr. Todd put
it, young men are not made doubters by opening the books wide before them and inviting them to test and
prove all things; they are made to doubt by being restrained in the universal use of all means of obtaining
knowledge. If we men of today can realize that ours is the| Sure of experience has been his, he is
mindful of the fact the direction of a college |

Exchanges Chaff

Cornell Drops 257 for Flunks

CORNELL UNIVERSITY—Because of scholastic deficiencies, 257 students were dropped from the school at the end of the semester. Most of
these were dropped from the engineering school. The average number dropped in the last five years at the end of
the first term is 255. —Nebraska.

THE UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO has a freshman enrolled this year whose height is three feet and six inches.

Boys Earn Way With Sheep

OREGON AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE—Two brothers started a flock of sheep four years ago with two orphan purebred lambs. All the money
realized from the sale of wool and prizes won at the fairs is used to purchase more sheep. The boys
expect to use the money made from the sale of the flock to pay their way through the agricultural college
after they have finished high school. —Nebraskan.

JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY—The university is now offering a course in gas engineering, the first course of its kind in the
country.

THE COLLEGE CHESS CLUB OF McGILL UNIVERSITY defeated one of the strongest clubs of the city of Montreal.

Colleges to Debate by Radio—Listeners-In Picking Winner.

WORCESTER, MASS., MARCH 31—A debate by radio between teams representing Holy Cross College and Boston College has been arranged for
Tuesday night, April 28, through Station WNAC in Boston and WEAN in Providence. The Boston College students will speak from
the Boston station and the Holy Cross students from the Providence station. The discussion will be carried out in usual
college style and the radio listeners will be asked to vote for the team they consider the winner, the decision
resting on the result of this ballot. The glee clubs of both colleges will provide music from the stations. —N.
Y. Times.

Ounce and a Half of Alcohol is Average Sobriety Limit

NEW YORK CITY, APRIL 5—The average man, without being trained for it, can drink an ounce and a half of
alcohol in suitable dilution on an empty stomach without “obvious signs of incipient intoxication,” according to Dr. Francis G. Benedict
of the Nutrition Laboratory, Carnegie Institution, at Washington. His statement was made public yesterday by the American Chemical Society. Moderate
drinking, while harmless in other countries, is bad in the United States, according to Dr. Benedict, because of the intensity
of life here, the hazards and difficulties of intensive automobile operation throughout the country, and the fact that Americans take
liquor as a stimulant or food accessory, while in Europe it replaces other foods. Such an amount of alcohol as
may be harmless for an ordinary individual is sufficient, according to Dr. Benedict, to make an automobile operator a menace
to society. —N. Y. Times.

UNIVERSITY OF INDIANA—A total of 57 students have been permitted to keep cars while attending the university. This permit to
keep cars will be taken from 67 others unless they obey the ruling to the letter.

ESS is the opportunity to learn and investigate for ourselves, then can we rightfully take our place in the wide
world outside where success waits for us with open arms. Men who have achieved the highest measure of success have
not groped blindly in the ways left by those who passed on before. They dared to show themselves masters of
their own minds and creators of their own thoughts. The challenge is flung before us to prove ourselves worthy; to
do this should be our aim in college, and towards that end should we direct the best of the talents
that are within us.

Next week the Y. M. C. A. puts on its annual drive for funds. Last year Warren Cox was sent
out to the Hangchow Christian College as Davidson’s representative in China and this year the funds will again go to
his support. Last week a letter from Warren was printed, which showed the value of educational work in China. For
one more year Warren will represent us in China. One thousand dollars is the least we ought to give to
his support. That should be our minimum goal—but our endeavor should not stop there. If possible we should give more.
No limit should be set. It is our campaign; our share in the Christianization of the world.

TONIGHT By the World’s Lowest Paid Editor ARTERY RATSBANE

World Events Briefly Chronicled April 9, 1925

JUNIOR SPEAKING—that is the name of the gala social event down at Davidson College this week. According to all press
reports, this occasion will be a scene of youthful fun, frolic, and festivity for the many young men and women
that will be there to enjoy it. This college should take precautions by all means to provide itself with suitable
protection against aircraft. The strong attacking forces of Queens College are liable at any time to send over bombing planes
loaded heavily with yellow propaganda advocating dance halls at Davidson. Also, what havoc this would cause among the unsuspecting students.
There is your yellow peril indeed.

Paris and Monte Carlo have decreed short skirts for this spring’s styles. Of course, all womankind will follow the precepts
set by mother Eve and wear them just as the mademoiselles of gay Paree set them forth. Bathing suits are
said to be worn on the half shell and green and heliotrope paint is all the vogue for milady’s features.
All the chic society women are now carrying baby calves in their arms just as they used to carry poodles.
Most of the calves are protected by fancy knitted coats.

That airplane menace should be watched. Government proofs have shown that an air attack by planes bombarding with insidious propaganda
will destroy the morale and spirit of a people quicker than anything else. Rumors are afloat that poison letters from
several of the girls’ colleges have worked havoc with the boys’ hearts. The letters received at Davidson should be thoroughly
disinfected, taken apart, and burned before reading by those receiving them.

A fierce Halitosis escaped from its cage in the York zoo the other day and is said to be abroad
in the country. Several packs of the country’s best Listerine hounds have been on the trail for many hours but
without the least bit of success.

DAVIDSON Day By Day BY O. O. NOTINTIRE

Thoughts while strolling Around Davidson

Bevies of beautiful Junior Speaking girls—Skit McConnell, the famous showman, stopped me and asked me for a match, thus making
me feel highly honored—April showers—spooning couples beneath the umbrella tree—I wonder how they ever climb to the top of the
tank to put names up there—Jethro the Afro-American janitor and general all-around good fellow—muddy walks—feverish preparation for the minstrel—boy kisses
girl at the station and claims it is his sister.

The college boys have a dog which they call Ingersoll—it never misses a tick.

While walking up the main boulevard, met my esteemed friend, Chester Monk, who was smoking a cigar that a friend
had given him, in a very novel manner. He had worn it down to the very end and had inserted
a pin therein so as to extract the last bit of mellow flavor from it. I intend to try it.

Was interested in looking over a pile of magazines that had been discarded by the boys. Found such publications as
Snappy Stories, Literary Digest, La Vie Parisienne, Our Dumb Animals, St. Nicholas, and others. The literary magazines especially were well
thumbed.

One of the bright-looking young damsels who was a guest at the festivities asked me a very perplexing conundrum today.
She asked me what it was that has horns and four legs, goes around butting, and eats tin cans. I
told her that it was a goat. “Aw, somebody told you,” she fired back at me.

Observing the nice new steps of the Chambers building, I sat myself thereon and found that they were very soft
indeed. I would recommend them for all couples who tire of sitting on the grass.

I found a student crying today. He was truly a pathetic figure as he leaned his six foot three against
an umbrella and sobbed audibly. He told me that his name was Harold Burke. For a long time, he would
not confide in me his great trouble. He finally told me that the reason he was crying was because there
were only six more weeks of school.

C. F. S.
