THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925.

ENNIS TEAM TRIUMPHS

"On the Square"
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

"COLLEGE!" That's what the new Society Brand Boulevard says to you. College clothes are not like other clothes. College men
wear what they like, and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it, so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand
makes clothes for college men. That’s why they make the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner and Urner Oxfords
Manhattan Shirts
Spalding

Wildkittens Beat State Freshmen in Closing Game of Trip

The Davidson Wildkittens returned to the campus late Saturday night after a four-day trip over the state, winning one contest
and losing two, the fourth one with Duke University being rained out. The Davidson Freshmen were able to win the
last game from State Yearlings, dropping the other two to the Carolina and Wake Forest Freshmen. This was a total
of 11 games for this season, of which the Freshmen have won seven.

Carolina Freshmen were met first, and the young Tar Heels won a 9-1 victory, due principally to the large number
of errors made by the Davidson Freshmen. The Carolinians made only eight hits off Poole, none of them for an
extra base, which would ordinarily mean a tight game, with the Wildkittens getting five bingles, one of them a two-bagger
by Maulden, the only extra base hit of the game. Maulden was the star of the Davidson team that day,
getting three hits and a walk out of four times up. Deal and Young, for Carolina, both were credited with
two bingles.

CAROLINA FRESH
AB R H PO A E
Men 4 2 1 0 0 0
Deal 4 2 2 0 0 0
Young 4 1 2 6 0 0
Machie 4 1 1 0 0 0
Chat 4 0 1 0 0 0
Webb 4 0 1 3 1 0
Batty 4 0 1 6 1 1
Murphy 4 1 1 6 1 1
Cheney 4 1 0 2 0 0
Total 36 9 8 27 3 2

DAVIDSON FRESH
AB R H PO A E
Johnson 5 0 0 2 0 1
Nup 5 0 0 0 0 0
Arrowood 4 0 1 7 0 1
Mulleny 4 0 0 1 1 0
Maulden 3 0 3 0 0 1
Poole 4 0 0 0 0 0
McGeachey 4 0 0 5 0 1
Edwards 4 0 1 6 0 0
McAulay 4 0 0 2 0 0
Total 36 1 5 24 1 4

Summary—Two-base hit: Maulden; sacrifice hit: Machie; stolen bases: Deal, Webb; bases on balls: off Graham 1, off Poole 1; struck
out: by Graham 8, by Poole 4; umpire: Sides.

Wake Forest Freshmen was the second team encountered on the trip, and they took the Wildkittens into camp with a
7 to 2 victory, this game being another in which errors were frequent by the Davidson Freshmen, there being a
total of seven. However, Oden was touched for 11 hits, while the Wake Forest pitcher, James, held the Wildcats to
only five, the number they had made the day before. Dulen and Edgar made two bingles each, while the fifth
hit by Davidson was a home run by Johnson. Phelps and Clayton, for Wake Forest, made three each, Clayton getting
a two-bagger and a triple. An interesting fact in this game is that there were 21 assists by the Wake
Forest Freshmen for the 27. The Wildkittens evidently were laying down easy rollers, the first baseman getting 16 putouts. In
addition to Clayton's excellent hitting, he made eight assists at shortstop.

W. FOREST FRESH
AB R H PO A E
Joyner 3 0 0 0 3 0
James 3 3 1 0 0 0
Charles 5 2 2 0 0 0
Clayton 5 3 3 3 8 0
Batty 5 1 2 0 0 0

(Continued on page 5)

Wright & Ditson
Goldsmith Goods
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade Street

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

We can breathe better now since Coach Monk Younger has signed a two-year contract. For a while we were beginning
to think that we would be minus his services next year. His decision to come back not only brings forth
an ovation from the student body, but from the Davidson alumni and friends, as well as the football fans.

It’s only human nature to boost the team that is fighting against odds, and fans will be delighted to know
that Davidson will have a similar team on the field this year. That is, they will have the same tactics
and principles inculcated into their playing. And the team will have a coach to play for whom they like.

It’s not merely the team that likes Coach Monk, but the student body as a whole. We cannot help but
admire his cleanness in athletics, and as long as he is at Davidson that is the only type of playing
that can be expected.

We wish we knew tonight (Monday) whether Coach Tilson will sign up. We hope he will, since this pair has
worked together so effectively during the past two seasons.

It’s not the coach's fault that we haven’t been winning baseball games. We won from Guilford, even though it did
look as if we were about to lose it for a while, when we had the edge on them 1
to 5. They came back strong and made six runs.

All Davidson teams have been fairly successful this year except the baseball. The tennis team came in late Saturday night
with four victories and one defeat out of five hard matches. University of Maryland, Navy, University of Virginia, Union Seminary,
and Winston-Salem Country Club are five good teams, and to have been as successful is a credit to the team.
Staley did not lose a single match. It's true that Harry Price lost some matches, but it must be remembered
that every team pitted their best against him.Harry, and he had a hard time all the way through, while the
others had easier men. Davidson vs. Davidson would have been a better title for the Union Seminary match, since three
of those against the Wildcats graduated from here. Two champions in Hugh Bradley and Henry Price were matched against each
other, and the champion of three states, Bradley, won. Roy, of Clemson, can certainly leave a trail of dust. The
440-yard dash was a beautiful run. John Currie says the 440-yard dash isn't in his line, but we think that
with some training it would be conspicuously in his line. He certainly “caught air” on the 100-yard dash when he
made it in 9 9-10 seconds. The varsity track, freshmen track, and varsity tennis teams all make a journey to
Chapel Hill next week for the state meet. We can rely upon them to give their best. Carolina has made
a remarkable record in track this season, but with all the schools of North Carolina bringing in their men, she
will have a tough time of it then. Johnson used the willow effectively in the state trip, getting three out
of three one day, two of them being triples, and getting a home run the day before. Maulden also made
three out of three in the Carolina game, the Wildcats that day. Playing such teams as they did brought down
their batting averages, but even at that five regulars: Poole, McGeachy, Johnson, Maulden, and Edgar are hitting over .300. And
two of these are pitchers.

Clemson Tigers Pile Up Points In Wildcat Meet

The Clemson Tigers overcame the Wildcats on Richardson field Saturday by the score of 81-45. Clemson gained a large margin
by taking all first places in the track events and by holding the Wildcats to only three first places in
the field events. Mase, Finklea, and Robinson tied for high point honors for Clemson with 10 points apiece. Anderson was
high point man for the Wildcats with 9 points, and Goodykoontz followed with 7. Cartee, of Clemson, after having disqualified
himself in the pole vault at 10 feet 4 inches, broke the Tigers’ record of 11 feet by clearing 11
feet 1 inch. Davidson entered some of her Wildkittens in the meet unofficially so as to get a line on
them for next year. Currie was the star of this group. He came in first in the 100-yard dash in
9 9-10 seconds. In the 440 he came in second only to the breaker of the Southern title. Penn also
made a good showing by coming in a very short distance behind Williford in the two-mile run. Melton was entered
in both the 440-yard dash, the high jump, and the broad jump, but came out better in the latter in
which he jumped 18 feet 3 inches. The Freshmen who were entered were Currie, Melton, Penn, McMillan, and Nisbet. The
spectators had a chance to see Roy, of Clemson, perform. He broke the southern record for the 440-yard dash the
week before. This is only his second year on the cinder path, so the Tigers will again have a sure
winner in him next year. Mase performed well for the Tigers on the hurdles, and Robinson gained his points via
dashes. McCombs, McMillan, and Goodykoontz got first places for Davidson. The weather was the hottest of the season and a
good many of the participants seemed to be affected by it. The track gave them some trouble also, due to
the lack of rain. The Tigers were without a doubt the fastest team that the Wildcats have met. The Davidson
team started the season with V.P.I., then came Wofford, following them the Gamecocks, and last week the Tigers. Both of
the teams enter their respective state meets this coming weekend. Furman is expected to be the main contender with Clemson
for the South Carolina honors. The summary follows:

100-yard dash—Robinson (Clemson) first; Goodykoontz (Davidson), Mitchell (Clemson). Time 10 flat.
880-yard run—Newman (Clemson) first; Cannon (Clemson), McConnell (Davidson). Time 2:02 1-5.
120-yard high hurdles—Mase (Clemson) first; Anderson (Davidson), Gracey (Davidson). Time 16 4-5.
1-mile run—R. E. Sease (Clemson) first; Blakely (Clemson), McConnell (Davidson). Time 4:46 2-5.
2-mile run—Hart (Clemson) first; E. C. Sease (Clemson), Williford (Davidson). Time 10:46 2-5.
220-yard dash—Robinson (Clemson) first; Goodykoontz (Davidson), Brand (Davidson). Time 22 4-5.
220-yard low hurdles—Mase (Clemson) first; Anderson (Davidson), Gracey (Davidson). Time 26 flat.
440-yard dash—Roy (Clemson) first; Brand (Davidson) second; Goodykoontz (Davidson). Time 51 3-5.
Pole vault—Henderson (Clemson) first; Anderson (Davidson), Cartee (Clemson). Height 10:10.
Shot put—Finklea (Clemson) first; Boggs (Davidson), Long (Davidson). Distance 38:9.
High jump—Calhoun (Davidson) first; King (Clemson), Cartee (Clemson). Height 15:8.
Discus throw—Finklea (Clemson) first; Pennate (Clemson), Bohannon (Davidson). Distance 113 feet.
Broad jump—McMillan (Davidson) first; Dupree (Clemson), King (Clemson). Distance 20 feet 9 inches.
Javelin throw—McComb (Davidson) first; Dupree (Clemson), Gracey (Davidson). Distance 155 feet 1-4 inch.

For Dental Gold, Platinum, Silver, Diamonds, magneto points, false teeth, jewelry, any valuables. Mail today. Cash by return mail. Hoke
S. & R. Co., Otsego, Mich.

BRONCHITIS

Apply Vicks at bedtime rubbing it well in. Then spread on thickly and cover with hot flannel. Arrange bed-clothes so
vapors will be inhaled.

VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

For High Class PRINTING of every description

Jam-Up SERVICE

C. M. S. McIlwaine
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

All kinds of accessory clothing shown every Friday in the lobby of West Dormitory by Joe Harrison Clothing Company

APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.
Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
