THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

Buck Shaw Elected by Juniors as Editor of The Quips and Cranks

L. L. Deck Chosen to Attend to Financial Duties of the Publication in Class Meeting

At a meeting of the Junior class Monday afternoon, H. L. (Buck) Shaw, Jr. was elected to the editorship of the Quips and Cranks for the year 1926. At the same time, L. L. Deck was elected business manager. The election of the two men was carried off in quick style, both being recommended by the staff of the 1925 Annual and no others nominated.

Shaw has shown ability along journalistic lines, winning a position on the staff of The Davidsonian, and at times being a contributor to The Davidson College Magazine. He is a popular member of the class of 1926, having been elected to the presidency of it during its Junior year. L. L. Deck has shown marked ability along financial lines in piloting the Magazine through a successful year, bringing it out of a great debt to a position where it can start the next year with a clean sheet.

Library News

Some of the recent additions to the Library are:

The Story Of An Independent Newspaper, by Richard Hooker.
“The Story Of An Independent Newspaper chronicles one hundred years of the Springfield Republican, a paper that for much of the period has had national, and even international, fame for its character, ability, and influence. It was founded in 1824 by Samuel Bowles, and was carried on by his son and grandson of the same name. They were a trio unique in American newspaper history. The record of their experiences in striving for their ideals of public service makes an epic of rare interest.”

Where the Blue Begins, by Christopher Morley.
“Where the Blue Begins is wholly different from anything Christopher Morley has done before. It is a kind of fairy tale, if you like; an allegory, perhaps; a story readable for itself, full of quaint absurdity, laughter, and satire; but with an undercurrent of beauty and meaning that seems to lift it into the realm of those books that go on and on making friends and spreading enchantment.”

A Russian Gentleman, by Serghei Aksakoff.
“The story is as vivid and as interesting as that of any novel, as that of the novels of Russian writers of genius, and it has the additional value of being true.”—Maurice Baring.

Spoon River Anthology, by Edgar Lee Masters.
“The divine thrill, the authentic inspiration, the white flame that springs from these epitaphs of human souls cannot help but open the eyes of mankind to its abiding beauty.”—Springfield Union.

Arrowsmith, by Sinclair Lewis.
“The story of a man possessed with a passion for medical science. Martin Arrowsmith, a Main Street boy, goes to medical school, becomes a typical country doctor in the town where his wife’s people live, finds himself fascinated by the miracles of modern laboratory science. He grows into a fighter for truth, whether in a great scientific institute or in a disastrous tropical epidemic. It is also the story of Leora, boyishly gay and loyal, Martin’s perfect companion; of Max Gottlieb, his idol and prototype of all true scientists; and of Sondelius, gallant dictator of plague-stricken peoples. And there are scores of others, men and women from medical schools, from Dakota wheatfields and middle-western cities, from laboratories and from New York Society—an immense range of scenes, characters, episodes, emotional situations. Mr. Lewis has swept into the current of Martin Arrowsmith’s restless and passionate life enough material for a dozen ordinary novels.”

Mountain Paths, by Maurice Maeterlinck.
“It is now three years since Maeterlinck has written a volume of essays. The new book consists of 18 chapters and deals with occult subjects, with fighting heroism. Maeterlinck’s previous books, ‘Our Eternity’ and ‘The Unknown Guest,’ which dealt with the future life and somewhat with the occult, aroused great interest among the readers of the work of the great Belgian mystic. They were a new departure for him and showed clearly the effects of the war on his mind. In Mountain Paths he reveals an even further advance into the shadowland of the world, which is fascinating all thinkers and scientists.”

John A. Brashear, An Autobiography.
“The life-story of ‘Uncle John’ Brashear, as he was known to thousands, is, above all, a romance, filled with inspiration and the spirit of youth. The boy with a love for the stars, who surmounted every obstacle until he became the leader of all living men as maker of astronomical lenses and instruments of precision, here tells the story of his heroic struggle—tells it with a modesty and charm which reveal him as one of the most fascinating of our contemporaries.”

The Rhyming Dictionary, by J. Walker.
“For a hundred and fifty years, Walker's Rhyming Dictionary has been the standard. Often imitated, never equaled or superseded, in its successive revisions it has been the friend-in-need of generations of poets, from Byron downwards. With every revision its scope and the number of words listed has increased, but it has never before experienced such a complete and elaborate rejuvenation as in this new edition. Not only have the spellings been modernized and the definitions been rewritten throughout, but more than twenty thousand new words have been added, bringing its total to over 54,000, making it practically a new book and completely putting out-of-date all previous editions.”

Former Davidson Man to Conduct "Y" Meetings Here

Twice each year the Y. M. C. A. has a four-day series of meetings, one in the spring and one in the fall. The spring life-work services begin Sunday at the regular “Y” service, and will extend through Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, with Dr. Charles H. Pratt, of Louisville, conducting the meetings. Dr. Pratt is a former missionary, and just before being called to Louisville held an important pastorate in Montgomery, Ala. He is a forceful and energetic speaker, and will bring great and helpful messages to assist men in finding their life work, their places in life’s battle line.

Buck Currie, former Davidson student body president, baseball pitcher, and “Y” secretary, and Bob McLeod, former Glee Club president and manager of Quips and Cranks, will be with Doctor Pratt to assist him in the services. Special music will be furnished at each meeting. Doctor Pratt will speak at the chapel each morning, and will also speak each evening after supper. These life-work services have always been the most inspiring and most popular services of the year and have always been a great help to the students. The services this year, with Doctor Pratt speaking and Buck and Bob assisting, stand fair to become the most popular, helpful and far-reaching ever held at Davidson.

Doctor Pratt now occupies the chair of Missions and Evangelism at the Louisville Theological Seminary, at Louisville, Ky. He is a graduate of King College, where he made an enviable record, being the star of the football team for several years and one of the leaders in campus activities. After graduating from King, Dr. Pratt served as a missionary to Korea for several years, returning to America to take the pastorate of the Central Presbyterian Church, in Montgomery, Ala. Leaving there, he accepted the chair of Missions and Evangelism at the Louisville Seminary, where he has continued his diligent work. Doctor Pratt is also an ardent worker in the Laymen’s Movement, to which he has contributed his valuable aid many times. He is also very active in the work of the Federated Association of Churches, and has done a great deal of work in this line. He has a very magnetic personality and has been very popular at all the places he has spoken. The Southern Church considers him to be the outstanding orator of the Southern Presbyterians. With his rich full voice he attracts everyone who is privileged to hear him.

Instructors in the University of Wisconsin have been referred to the faculty by the Senior Council because they did not leave the room during examinations. The honor system states that all faculty members shall leave the room during examinations.

Junior Speaking Plans Are Now Completed and Announced to Public

Rising Juniors Elect Complete Program Assures Fun and Jollity for Spring Prom

SANITY RACE COMING

Pep, Youth, Wisdom, Wit to Feature Premier Fete of Class of Twenty-Six

Junior Speaking, a time of unsurpassed social activity at Davidson,is just over the horizon and is casting its bright shadow ahead. The members of the class of '26 are busy with various details connected with the approaching event and are excited over the prospects of the most enjoyable speaking ever staged. The festivities, as planned and arranged by a special committee of the Junior class, working under the direction of D. G. Wilson, will cover a period of four days, and every minute will be occupied with some sort of entertainment for the large number of feminine visitors expected on the Hill for the holidays. Starting Saturday, April 9, with a special movie in the gymnasium, and lasting through Monday evening, the occasion promises to surpass all former records for jollity and amusement. The program, as tentatively arranged, is as follows:

Thursday, April 9—Movie in the Gymnasium.
Friday, April 10—Finals in the Junior Oratoricals. Bingham Recital.
Saturday, April 11—Baseball, D.C. Fresh vs. Duke Fresh. Carnival and Minstrel.
Sunday, April 12—Special "Y" Service for Visitors and Students.
Monday, April 13—Dance at Hotel Charlotte. Baseball, D.C. vs. Carolina, at Gastonia. Dance at Hotel Charlotte (Naylor's Orchestra).

Saturday will mark the climax of the celebration. Beginning with an exciting baseball game, in which the Davidson Wildkittens will cross bats with the fast Duke University Frosh Squad on Richardson Field in the afternoon, and ending with the carnival and minstrel in the gymnasium, the day will be replete with festivity. The carnival and minstrel, staged under the direction of the Junior class, will attract the students and their guests to the gymnasium, converted temporarily into a combination theatre and "big top" circus arena. The gymnasium will be partitioned off into two separate divisions, and while one will be used in staging the minstrel, the other will be decorated and used as the location of the carnival, with all its booths and side-show attractions.

The Juniors are at work on a special Junior Speaking magazine to be distributed at the carnival. The magazine will be known as Sanity Rare, and will be overflowing with illustrations and stories. Fred Smith and C. F. Monk, assisted by Linton Deck and Harold Burke, are handling the details connected with the publication of the magazine and are very much pleased over the prospects of giving the students and their guests a bit of printed wit, unequalled at Davidson for many years for originality and versatility. With dances, carnival, minstrel, athletic events, and the magazine already arranged, Junior Speaking promises to be the gala event on the social calendar of the year.

CALENDAR
THURSDAY—
7:15—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:15—Philanthropic Literary Society.
FRIDAY—
3:30—Oak Ridge vs. Davidson.
SATURDAY—
3:30—Oak Ridge vs. Davidson.
7:30—Movies.
SUNDAY—
10:15—Volunteer Band.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:15—"Y" Vesper Service.
MONDAY—
7:00—Court of Control.
9:30—Discussion Group Leaders.
TUESDAY—
7:15—Pandemic Literary Society.
7:15—Metrophilian Literary Society.
WEDNESDAY—
9:30—Bible Discussion Groups.

Pinkney as President, Joe McConnell Elected Vice-President and Bill Woods Secretary

In an election held recently, James F. Pinkney was chosen to lead the class of '27 through its Junior year. At the same time, Joe H. McConnell was elected vice-president, and William S. Woods secretary-treasurer. Those nominated for president were J. F. Pinkney, L. D. Wharton, Willard Keerans, and Vernon Broyles. A run-off was necessary between Pinkney, Broyles, and Keerans, in which Pinkney was chosen by a good majority. The nominees for vice-president were Joe McConnell, Ronald Wilson, and Willard Keerans. McConnell was chosen on the second ballot, Wilson being the second man. Woods was also chosen to his position on the second ballot, the other candidates being Bob Mitchell, W. A. Christian, and W. O. Green.

These officers are men who have shown their leadership in all branches of college activities since they entered Davidson. They are entirely capable of upholding the standards set by the retiring officers under President Bill Covington. James Fee Pinkney, better known on the campus as Jim, is the man who, along with Bohannon, played so well at right end on the famous Wildcat football team last fall. He has served as secretary of the Student Council during the past year and was recently elected vice-president of the student body. McConnell starred on the football team; his work at center was commended by sports writers all over the state. During the past year, he has served as a member of the Court of Control. William S. (Bill) Woods is one of the most popular men in his class and has shown himself to be a true Davidson Wildcat. He served as an officer of the class in its Freshman year and is now one of the Junior assistant football managers for next season.

OVER TWENTY MEN ON HONOR ROLL
(Continued from page 1)

The following men ranked among the first ten in their classes:

Master of Arts:
SAM 95.00

Seniors:
PEVAWIGKieM Wi 98.25
Kimzey, R. T 97.16
[sithlGjOhiwRiics 97.00
Rurches, C. S 96.80
McSwain, T. C. 96.16
RAMBiVimWHG 95.80
DIMPSON At 95.00
SGlanswRe Or 95.50
Rh Via WAGWis 95.31
HUNG rh Ci Rs 95.00

Juniors:
GravesahRaWea 97.90
Shawellvalii 96.50
Brenner Opies 96.00
FIGUStON ye Gia 96.00
Millner, J. E. 96.00
Hollingsworth, A. H. 95.85
ParkGtakiebh 95.70
Ratchford, B. U 95.50
ADDO yay Mi 93.90

Sophomores:
GhristianeWieA 95.90
Austin, H. M. 93.80
Goodykoontz, H. G. 92.70
Stewart, D. H. G. 92.60
WiGOUEREVVeiS 92.30
RicehaWicBs 91.90
GovingtonjeW, Ty 91.30
Betnhardtalt: Grvcelccuscuecdeess 91.00
Bordeaux, W. H. 90.70

Freshmen:
HOWard aD ieHi 97.47
Arbuckle, H. B. 95.31
OhsigkG Aveo 94.60
Davidson, C. G. 93.90
McKnight Jie Pico 93.80
Gray iieS 93.00
Wied titebtreS 92.30
Gwinn, W. K.

The social fraternities made a general average of 82.40 and scored individually as follows:

Eligible for Cup
Phi Gamma Delta 84.19
Pi Kappa Phi 83.25
Pi Kappa Alpha 83.20
Kappa Alpha 82.43
Theta Upsilon Omega 82.05
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 81.88
Beta Theta Pi 79.99
Kappa Sigma 78.76

For formal dress wear, we suggest a white pleated bosom shirt fashioned by Earl and Wilson. Typical Bon Marche value at $3. Faultless pajamas fashioned of extra quality soisette in tan, blue, or gray are attractive feature items in The Shops for Men, $3. In The Shops for Men, you will find a complete new assortment of fashion-right silk hose, Interwoven brand, priced from 75¢ to $2 per pair. White shirts with or without collars attached, made of imported English broadcloth, in sizes 13½ to 17. $2.50. Cross-word puzzle ties in many colors, $1.

Bon Marche
FIRST FLOOR TRYON STREET ENTRANCE

Other Fraternities
DidssGlitiies 85.28
Pyramid Club
Delta Theta Chi

The average of the fraternities is thus .14 points more than that of the student body as a whole. This is slightly better than last year's fraternity average. The athletic teams also show a great deal of improvement in their scholarship according to the grades made by the varsity men this past semester. The major teams made these averages:

Football
Basketball

Last year, they were approximately two and four points below this. Besides the Phi Beta Kappa bids given to those Seniors who have distinguished themselves in their scholastic life, there is a scholarship awarded to the national social fraternity which appears to be making the greatest success in that line of activity.

REVEREND YATES TO SPEAK TO VOLUNTEER MEETING

The Reverend Mr. Yates, of Missouri, a returned missionary from China, spoke to the Volunteer Band at their last meeting and was heard with much interest. Mr. Yates told of the work of the missionaries in China, the difficulties they have to work under and overcome. His talk was strongly impressive. He was introduced by W. B. Rice. J. A. McAlpine led the singing and Paul Patterson led the meeting in prayer.

The flock of 240 sheep kept at Stanford University for the last ten years is a self-supporting body. Not only do they serve as an efficient lawn mowing combine, but at each semi-annual shearing, they yield approximately $350 worth of wool.