THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

ALUMNI NOTES

'08—Dr. Oren Moore, who is practicing medicine in Charlotte, was on the Hill a few days ago.
'10—Dr. J. C. Peden has his offices located in the Commercial Building, in Tulsa, Okla.
'13—Oran S. Crawford is a real estate broker in Rock Hill, S. C.
'21—W. C. (Cicero) Gaither, of Newton, was an interested spectator of the Davidson-Duke basketball game Saturday night.
'25—T. B. Brown, in business at Charlotte, was a recent visitor on the Hill.
'23—Wallace Moore, who is teaching school in Concord, was up for the game Saturday.
Ex-'24—George Lee Irvin spent the weekend in Davidson. He holds the office of secretary of the Smith-Phillips Lumber Company, in
Winston-Salem.
'24—W. A. McLain is a law student at the University of Virginia.
'24—C. V. Brown, better known as “Vic,” is teaching at McCallie, Chattanooga, Tenn.
'24—Elias Faison, A. M. McBryde, and W. Z. Bradford were initiated into the University of Pennsylvania chapter of Phi Chi
medical fraternity last week.
'23—W. Gettys Guille, of Concord, was on the Hill a short time ago.
Ex-'25—T. F. Marrow, in business at Charlotte, was back on the campus over the weekend.
Ex-'26—J. A. McMillan is connected with the Southern Public Utilities Co., in Charlotte. He holds a position in the gas
appliances department.
Ex-'27—W. K. Johnson, of Asheboro, visited his brother here the past week. He is in business at his home.
Ex-'26—Harry Lindamood, captain of the wrestling team and member of both football and track teams last year, is now at
Columbia University, where he is pursuing his courses this year.
'24—A. D. (Captain) Cromartie is now a professor in the schools at Loray, N. C.
'03—Dr. Thomas W. Lingle made the principal address at the dedicatory exercises of the North Carolina School for the Blind,
on January 8.
'10—Rev. John Hay, for some time pastor of the Presbyterian Church at Brevard, N. C., has accepted a call to
the Presbyterian Church of Clover, N. C. After graduating from Davidson College and later from the Columbia Theological Seminary, he
acted as supply pastor of Purity Presbyterian Church, of Chester, S. C., where he married Miss Sarah Craig, of that
city. The Rev. Mr. Hay is said to be one of the most promising young Presbyterian ministers in the Carolinas.
Rev. D. C. Young has moved from Memphis, Tenn., to Festus, Mo.
The following were at the Davidson-Duke basketball game last Saturday night: W. W. Flowe, '95, Concord; Wallace Moore, '23, Concord;
Bill Miley, '21; Mr. C. Watkins, '09, and wife.
'92—W. W. Morris recently visited the campus.

Marriages
'15—Mr. J. Caldwell Neal and Miss Mae Dell Culpepper, Perry, Fla., were recently married at the home of the bride's
parents. Mr. and Mrs. Neal will make their home in Charlotte.

Deaths
'82—Mr. Joseph MacLean died December 29, in York, S. C. For 25 years Mr. MacLean taught at Agnes Scott College.
During the World War he did Y. M. C. A. work at Camp Gordon and Red Cross work at Fort
McPherson. “Mr. MacLean was a man of scholarly attainments, cultured manners and winning personality. Of upright Christian character and broad
sympathy, he wielded a strong influence for good throughout his life.”

Jennings
The students extend their sympathy to W. Hampton Jennings, '28, in his bereavement following the sudden death of his father,
Dr. W. H. Jennings, at Thomasville, Ga., shortly after the holidays.

Hall
The student body extends its sympathy to Roger F. Hall, '28, upon the death of his mother, and regrets to
learn that Roger has had to withdraw from college.

This year is the logical year for a basketball tournament within the state of North Carolina. No team is going
to walk away with the championship like Carolina has been doing for several years.

LOST—One pillow, also one pair of pajamas. Finder please return to Roland Parker, 305 West, and receive reward.

CIGARS

NONE TOO SMALL
R. A. DUNN, President
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice President
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00
NONE TOO LARGE
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier

State University. Exchanges With College Editors should be stopped by the students at once. The faculty and members of the
student body have had too many opportunities to put in unfavorable comment on the actions of certain students.

Columbia's chess team not only gained permanent possession of the C. H. Y. P. College Chess League challenge cup by
winning for 10 consecutive years, but also closed the tournament with a perfect record of 12 individual victories and no
defeats.—Columbia Spectator.

The Chlorine dispensing apparatus has recently been installed at the V. P. I. infirmary and it is reported that a
great majority of the students taking the treatment report improvement or complete cures.—The Virginia Tech.

Oil wells were recently discovered on the University of Texas campus. The loyalty will amount to from two hundred and
fifty to five hundred thousand dollars annually. The money will go into the university's permanent endowment fund and the interest
for the construction of new buildings.—Ex.

Miss Hazel Knott, of Winston-Salem, not only led her class but the entire college.is the highest mark given and to
have an average of 95 is a laudable record.—Maroon and Gold. When she made 95 on every subject. After years
of dissatisfaction with their fraternity rushing system, Dartmouth has adopted a new plan of postponing the rushing season until the
Sophomore year. The plan was decided upon by the college administration, with the unanimous consent of the faculty. “The Dartmouth”
reports that all the student leaders are in accord with the new plan.—Ex.

The writing of six hundred words on the back of a postage stamp has led Wesley Taylor, a graduate student
in Columbia, to claim the world's small-writing championship. Taylor transcribed two of Abraham Lincoln's complete speeches on the small part
of the back of a postage stamp, and this feat, he claims, surpasses that of Professor Nicola Durso, of Lecce
University, Italy. Durso wrote the history of Montenegro on a postal card and forwarded it to Queen Elena. Using a
fine steel pen, Taylor accomplished his task without the use of a magnifying glass or any sort of rule or
measure. “It is only fair to state,” Taylor said, “that while writing with a stylus on glass or metal, with
a microscope or special pantograph, had been frequently and finely done, attempts at miniature writing done with pen and ink
on paper are extremely rare, although such attempts as have been made have been felt worthy of not a little
eulogy on the valuable pages of history.”—Columbia Spectator.

An unusual student is to be found at Ohio. Although he has only one leg, he participates in 10 different
sports. He can pole-vault 7 feet 3 inches and holds a medal for second place in a half-mile swim. He
plays basketball, football, tennis, and golf. He skates on either ice or roller skates and can even dance above the
average.—Ex.

FRESHMAN CLASS TO SELECT OFFICERS

At a meeting of the Freshman class Monday morning following a called meeting of the student council, Jim Hendrix, president
of the Student Body, notified the Freshmen that soon they would be allowed to select their class officers. Hendrix said
that one morning this week the Freshmen would vote for their class president, vice-president, secretary and treasurer, historian, and poet.
He spoke of the importance of considering this matter before going into it. Several prominent leaders of the class of
'28 will be nominated by the student council for each office, but the members of the class will have the
right to nominate officers from the floor.

A number of sources in regard to the local wave of “bumming rides” which seems to have struck many college
communities in other parts. These comments have been anything but praises to those students who hail down all cars going
towards Durham. These opportunities should be eliminated and the way to do it is for every man to guide his
actions by the code of a gentleman.—The Tar Heel.

A MISTLETOE STORY

Christmas Tree Vendor—"Buy a tree, lady, buy a tree and make your children happy.”
Spinster (blushing)—"Sir! I'll have you understand I have no children!”
Vendor—"Buy some mistletoe, lady. Lots of nice mistletoe!"—Froth.

I never saw so nice a maid
In all my tours as Nancy,
Albin my side Vendee she strayed.
To Havre was my fancy.
We Metz somehow—the usual way—
Toulouse, perhaps, the manner;
But ‘neath her Paris all that day
My pleasure was to scan her.
Her Lyon filled my breast with pain,
She led me to Rouen,
Then took French leave, I went in Seine
—Widow.

Strangers or visitors to the community do not know just how to take a mob of yelling boys. It does
anything but put the University in the high regard of those who should happen to pass this way or come
over to visit relatives or friends. After every game on the Hall there are yet those men who line up
along the main street and yell at the cars passing by. This action is well mentioned above.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

A $5.00 bill will purchase you a $250.00 personal effects policy which protects you against fire and theft on all
of your wearing apparel, tennis racquet, golf clubs, and all other personal property anywhere other than having it stored in
your own home. Write or see Independence Trust Company Insurance Department Charlotte, N. C.

McAlister Carson, Manager
Phone 3940

BELK BROS.
CHARLOTTE
Headquarters For Young Men’s College Suits
Special Values Being Offered in Wide Bottom Pants
In one or two-piece suits at $25.00 to $29.50
The New Style. Bell-Bottom Pants
In Light, Medium, and Dark Shades at $4.95 and $6.95
Trade With Us and Save Money
