6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

Fresh Nine Plays Two Big Games
Junior Week, Rockingham High and Duke University Both Play on Richardson Field

The Freshman baseball season will get under way during the Easter holidays. The first game will be with Rockingham High,
to be played at 3:30, Friday, on Richardson field. Rockingham has a strong team this year, consisting mainly of the
men who won the State Prep football championship this last season. Broyles, their all-southern prep quarter, will probably pitch for
the opposing team Friday while Oden will more than likely hurl for the Davidsonians. On Saturday, the Wildkittens will meet
the Duke freshmen on the home field. Poole will probably pitch this game for the Davidson Fresh. The following Monday
and Tuesday, the team will go to Raeford, where they will play two consecutive games with the American Legion there,
made up of high school and college stars in and about Raeford. The schedule will be a hard one and
although Coach Rawson has lost some of his good prospects, including Harrison and Edgar, on account of sickness and sprained
limbs, the outlook for the Fresh season is bright.

The lineup will probably be as follows:
Catcher—Wilson or McNeal.
First Base—Arrowood.
Second Base—McAuley.
Shortstop—Kugler.
Third Base—Dulen.
Left Field—Edwards.
Center Field—Johnson.
Right Field—Mouldin or McGeachy.
Pitchers—Poole, Oden, Cathey, C., Cathey, W.

McCUTCHEON WINS PLACE ON TENNIS TEAM

The tennis tournament, which was played to pick the Varsity Tennis Team, has been concluded with the following results. Harry
Price won first place, losing only one match; Layton McCutchen sprang a surprise and came out second, losing only one
match also; Tom Staley rates third, losing only three matches; Mac Beall won fourth place, losing four matches; and Jimmie
Trotter captured fifth place with five losses. The other candidates in the tournament are Wharton, Crosland, Brown, Carr, Lockhart, Alexander,
and Austin. The tennis team plays its first match here, Thursday afternoon with the Clemson Tigers. Tom Staley will not
be present; so Harry Price, Layton McCutchen, Mac Beall, and Jimmie Trotter will represent the Wildcats. It is expected to
be a good match and everyone is urged to come out and see the tennis team play.

GLEE CLUB FRIDAY

The Glee Club will present its final performance next Friday night, April 10th, at eight o'clock in Shearer Hall. This
will be the last appearance of the Glee Club this year. The performance will be one of the brilliant events
of the Junior Speaking. The entire program has been changed since the debut of the club last fall and the
performance should be very enjoyable. The jazz orchestra especially has improved and is planning to render some snappy selections next
Friday. The club recently made a trip to Winston-Salem where their offerings proved a great success. Several other trips have
been made recently and all have been acclaimed a success by all the audiences.

BRIGGS ANNOUNCES BASEBALL CHANGES

Manager J. R. Briggs announces the following changes in the baseball schedule for the remainder of the season. On Easter
Monday, April 13th, the game with Carolina scheduled to be played in Gastonia will be played in Salisbury in the
New Piedmont League Park at 5 p.m. On April 16th, the Wildcat nine will play Wofford on the Hill. The
game with Duke University on May 9th will not be played in Gastonia as per schedule but it has not
been definitely decided where it will be played. The reason for both games being transferred from Gastonia is that upon
examination the bleachers were found to be insecure. Gastonia was forced to refuse to handle the games on account of
this. Bids were received from Winston-Salem, Greensboro, and Salisbury, and as Salisbury was considered the most desirable and profitable place,
it was arranged for the Carolina game to be played there. This game is under the auspices of the Salisbury-Spencer
Athletic Association.

WOFFORD RUNNERS BOW
(Continued from page 1)

Lattimer, by winning first place in the high jump, placed high for the Wofford squad and third in the meet.
Spee McCon- Military Men Honored By Scabbard and Blade Local Chapter Initiates Five Men Who Are Prominent—Captain Dougherty Also

The local chapter of the Scabbard and Blade held an important meeting Saturday night, March 25. Besides the regular business,
there was an election of officers and five new members initiated. The new members are: Capt. R. D. Daugherty, A.
S. Jones, Jr., Woodrow Wilson, B. U. Ratchford, and George Smith. The Scabbard and Blade is a national military fraternity
in which membership is attained only through meritorious work and strict adherence to business along this line of endeavor. The
local chapter was installed at Davidson in the spring of 1922 and since that time it has been the coveted
goal for the endeavor of the men interested in the military department. There are only a few men elected to
the organization and the ones who are chosen have been marked for their creditable actions during their performance of duty.
The membership of the local chapter is necessarily small which makes it more of a distinction for those who are
successful in obtaining membership. Besides the new initiates, the local chapter has as members: Al Lake, W. C. Ramsey, J.
P. Hendrix, Litch Huie, Jim Gudger, J. A. Thompson, Bob Kimzey, Milton Thomasson, and Joe Earnest. All of these men
have been prominent in the military work on the campus and are those who are to be commended on winning
membership to the fraternity. Although the local chapter is comparatively new, it has already established itself on a firm foundation
and is one of the most sought-for organizations on the hill.

Junior Oratorical Is Scheduled Friday Morn

Six Members of Twenty-Six Will Compete for Speaking Honors in Shearer

The Junior Oratorical Contest, which is one of the prominent features of Junior Speaking, will be held Friday morning at
10:30 o'clock. Since 1893, the date of the first Junior Speaking, the contest has been the heart of the college’s

pole vault and ticing with Calhoun in the one of the prominent features of Junior Speaking, will be held Friday
morning at 10:30 o'clock. Since 1893, the date of the first Junior Speaking, the contest has been the heart of
the college’s

losing four matches; and Jimmie Trotter took eight points for the Wildcats, winning in the mile and then running second
in the half. The meet showed up several men for Davidson who had never taken part in a varsity match,
Long winning out in the shot put, McAulay in the discus throw, when on the next to the last throw
forThe entire field, he hurled the discus for the winning distance. Brand pointed for the first time when he took
seconds in both the 100 and 440 runs. Pinkney, third in the mile and half-mile, pointed also for his first
time. However, it was Red Malloy who showed up best of the novices, taking first place in the low hurdles,
third in the high, as he was nosed out for second by inches. In the pole vault, he tied for
second.

Davidson won 11 and tied one of the first places, Wofford winning in the pole vault and half-mile run and
tying for first in the high jump. The Wildcats took eight of the 14 second places. The summary of the
events follows:

100-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson), first; Brand (Davidson), second; Kay (Wofford), third. Time, 10 4-5 seconds.
220-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson), first; Kay (Wofford), second; Dickson (Wofford), third. Time, 23 seconds.
440-yard dash—Goodykoontz (Davidson), first; Brand (Davidson), second; Hutchinson (Wofford), third. Time, 53 3-5 seconds.
880-yard run—Hutchinson (Wofford), first; McConnell (Davidson), second; Pinkney (Davidson), third. Time, 2:07 1-10.
One mile run—McConnell (Davidson), first; Lee (Wofford), second; Pinkney (Davidson), third. Time, 4:54 2-5.
Two-mile—Williford (Davidson), first; Maw (Wofford), second; Gudger (Davidson), third. Time, 10:57 1-10.
120-yard high hurdles—Gracey (Davidson), first; Hall (Wofford), second; Malloy (Davidson), third. Time, 18 seconds.
220-yard low hurdles—Malloy (Davidson), first; Hall (Wofford), second; Lee (Wofford), third. Time, 30 seconds.
High jump—Lattimer (Wofford) and Calhoun (Davidson), tied for first; Vance (Davidson), third. Height, 5 feet, 5 inches.
Broad jump—McMillian (Davidson), first; Bohannon (Davidson), second; Kay (Wofford), third. Distance, 19 feet 4 1-4 inches.
Pole vault—Lattimer (Wofford), first; Gracey (Davidson) and Malloy (Davidson), tied for second. Height, 9 feet 6 inches.
Shot put—Long (Davidson), first; Bell (Wofford), second; Gracey (Davidson), third. Distance, 34 feet 11 inches.
Discus throw—McAulay (Davidson), first; Bohannon (Davidson), second; Pressley (Wofford), third. Distance, 97 feet 2 inches.
Javelin throw—Gracey (Davidson), first; McComb (Davidson), second; Lee (Wofford), third. Distance, 156 feet 11 1-2 inches.

Juniors were required to speak, this constituting the chief annual social event—Junior Speaking. Six Juniors have entered the contest this
year. First, Hayden Hollingsworth, who will speak on “The Triumph of Idealism.” Hollingsworth will be followed by Glenn Eddington who
has chosen as his subject “Progress and Poverty.” J. M. W. E. Milton has elected to speak on “Samuel Gompers,”
while J. E. Moore, the fourth speaker, will expound on “The Vanguard of the Revolution.” Forest Franklin has selected the
vast subject of “Science.” Appleby has chosen “The Constitution.” Each of these men has gained prominence in forensic circles during
his three years at Davidson, while several have distinguished themselves along other lines. In all probability, the rivalry, although friendly,
will be extraordinarily keen, as the orator’s medal is one of the coveted honors offered at Davidson.

SUCCESS MARKED EFFORTS (Continued from page 1)

“Chong” is one of the most popular members of the student body, and has held many offices and positions of
honor during his four years at Davidson. He has been a member of the student council, president of his class,
member of Delta Pi Kappa honorary fraternity, Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity, a member of the Annual staff last year,
and has held numerous other positions of trust and honor to which he was elected by his classmates. Besides the
outstanding part that he has played in campus activities, McIlwaine has always been prominent in his class work. The new
staff feels keenly the loss that they will suffer by the retirement of “Chong,” but they feel that the fine
ideals that he has set as a standard for the paper will continue to inspire them long after he has
graduated from Davidson, and taken up the active affairs of life outside of college.

FIRST FRESH TENNIS

A freshmen tournament has been started but has not progressed very far yet. R. Crosland was elected manager of the
fresh team but was forced to go home with flu, so Malcolm Lockhart Jr. was elected in his place. The
candidates for the Fresh team are R. Carr, H. Boulware, C. Penn, Bob Miller, R. Crosland, Boyce Martin, John Parks,
Malcolm Lockhart, Jr., K. Forbes, John Foster, J. Wharton, D. Hancock and F. Daniel. The Fresh manager is negotiating for
matches with Charlotte Y. M. C. A, Charlotte High School, Winston-Salem Country Club, Winston-Salem High School, Oak Ridge, Rock Hill
High School and Greensboro Country Club. This will make an interesting schedule.

STUDENT REGISTRATION RAPIDLY PROGRESSING

The registrations for next year's courses are well under way and no doubt will be practically finished by the end
of this week. All students that expect to return to college next fall are required to sign up for their
courses of study before April 15th. After this date a fee of $2 will be required of all those who
register. This plan eliminates a great deal of confusion at the beginning of the fall term. Only the incoming Freshmen
have to have their courses arranged after they enter in the fall. Mr. Hengeveld is in charge of the registrations
of the rising Sophomore class, and he reports that nearly all of the present Freshmen have registered. Professor Foreman is
directing the registrations of the rising Junior class, and Professor Fleagle of the rising Senior class. About two-thirds of the
men have attended to this, and all are expected to register before April 15th to avoid payment of the extra
fee.

FORENSIC LEADERS BANQUETED BY PROFESSOR WACHTER

The forensic leaders of the campus were entertained at a banquet given by Prof. Carl Wachter last Wednesday evening at
the Chambers-Maxwell Hotel. To this list was added several members of the faculty, all of whom are members of Alpha
Phi Epsilon, honorary forensic fraternity. Among those present were the principals and alternates of the two varsity debating teams, the
teams from the Freshman class, the men who are orators and the Senior commencement speakers. In addition to these were
the members of Alpha Phi Epsilon, the forensic council and C. F. Smith, editor of The Davidsonian for the coming
year, and Professors A. Currie, J. M. McConnell, C. K. Brown, all members of this forensic fraternity. After the much-enjoyed
food had been disposed of, the three professors made short talks stressing the work at Davidson, past and present, in
the line of debate and oration. Following these talks, the host gave a somewhat longer discourse giving many valuable suggestions
to debaters and orators. Professor Wachter, Davidson's most recent addition to the faculty, has taken an active interest in all
branches of college activity since his coming to the Hill last fall, showing special interest in work of forensic nature.

Freshmen Class Elects Leader for Next Year

Bob McMillan Chosen President—Will Soon Choose Student Councilmen

Last Friday morning the Freshman class gave to Bob McMillan the presidency of his class for the coming year. Five
men were nominated for this office: Bob McMillan, John Melton, Dick Grey, Hugh Arrowood, and Rod McCrae. Out of this
group, McMillan won by a narrow margin after the voting had been narrowed down to him and Arrowood. McMillan won
his letter on the Freshman football team this year and was also a member of the Freshman track squad.

Monday morning the names of four men were put before the class from which two men were to be chosen
to represent the class on the Student Council next year. These men were John Foster, John Melton, Dick Grey, and
Jack Upton. To these were added the names of Wearn and O'Neal on nomination from the floor. On the first
ballot, Foster won a good majority above the other five men. Another ballot will be run off between Melton, O'Neal,
Grey, and Wearn. From these four, the other representative will be selected.

Two-in-one for Spring! Suits with both trousers and knickers—long fine for street or sport wear. English coat and vest, long
trousers, knickers, the latter with an overplaid if you like. Made of the finest cheviots and fancy mixtures, $45 and
up (Of course, you can get the suit with only knickers or long trousers at a consequent difference in price).

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
