BOS A BETTER DAVIDSON, DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 19, 1925 SONIAN No. 18

Dr. Swan Puts Social Hygiene Before Davidson Students With Valuable Film Picture Show and Two Lectures Complete Good Program

SWAN MAKES BIG HIT
Owns and Operates Largest Boys’ Camps in New England—Visits Major Southern Schools

The subject of Social Hygiene was developed before the student body by Dr. Swan, of New York City, Thursday and Friday of the past week. Dr. Swan spoke at Davidson under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A., and interestingly and effectively presented his subject to the students who heard him in chapel and at a special lecture in the gym Friday evening. This lecture was given in connection with a film showing graphically the theme of Dr. Swan's talk.

Social Hygiene is a subject so much overdone on the lecture platform that the mere mention of it as a topic for discussion instantly brings to the mind associations of hackneyed and unpleasant phrases. But the talks of Dr. Swan were presented in a different way. Instead of giving the hearers a long table of “Don'ts,” he gave them a few vital “Do's” that carried in themselves promises of happiness in the life that is to come after college. As he himself stated, his object was to treat the subject of love and marriage not in any sentimental sort of a way but to approach it from a philosophical standpoint. The high points of his lectures came in his plea for boys and men to be sympathetic toward their sweethearts or wives, and to try to understand them in all they do, and above all to consider their views in any matter as being important.

Connected with the topic of Social Hygiene is the problem of evolution and reproduction in the animal world. Dr. Swan touched upon this subject frequently, and the picture shown Friday evening was devoted entirely toward giving the students a better idea and a clearer conception of the fundamentals of animal reproduction. As Dr. Swan described the film, it is the most wonderful picture of its kind in existence, much of it being taken (Continued on page 7)

The Wildcat Glee Club Makes a Hit in Belmont
This is the First of a Series of Nice Trips Which Will be Taken Shortly

The Davidson Glee Club gave one of the most successful performances of the season last Friday night at Belmont. The chorus was encored time after time and the soloists also proved very popular. Tom Barr, taking the place of Fitts in the Wildcat Four, proved to be a capable bass. This popular quartet has proven one of the drawing cards of the Glee Club this year.

The trip to and from Belmont was made by automobile, and return was made Friday night. This Saturday night the Glee Club will give a performance at Queens College, under the auspices of the Senior class there. It is understood that the girls are preparing an elaborate entertainment in their honor. Several other trips will be made in the near future. On the night of the 28th a concert will be given at Huntersville. On March 11 another will be given in Lexington and on the 14th they will appear before Mitchell College, at Statesville. Negotiations are now under way for concerts at Greensboro, High Point, Winston-Salem or Salisbury for the nights of the 12th and 13th.

The Glee Club had a very successful fall season, and if present plans carry through the spring season will be even more a success. The practice acquired by means of the fall trips will stand them in good stead this spring.

Philosophy Club Is Started Here
The organization has recently been perfected for a club whose purpose is the promotion of philosophical and psychological interests among students of Davidson College. Membership in this club will be based upon inclination and interest in these two allied subjects, and will be drawn from Juniors and Seniors evidencing such liking.

This club is the outgrowth of work taken in the departments of Philosophy and Psychology, coupled with some indefinite plans of last year; and it is the intention of the promoters of the club to make it something on the order of a seminary course, with bi-monthly meetings. While election to this “Philosophy Club,” as it is so designated ad interim, will no doubt be considered an honor, and while the club will probably in time take its place among the honor societies at Davidson, the primary purpose of the club is to promote interest in these two fields, and provide ways and means for additional extra-curriculum work along these lines, rather than to reward scholarship in these fields.

The charter members number three Seniors and one Junior, with three professors as associate members, and additional members will be added at an early date. Active members at present are: D. B. Wharton, J. B. Gallent, H. B. Price and R. W. Graves. The associate members of the faculty are: Dr. M. E. Sentelle, head of the Philosophy department and dean of the college; Dr. Frazer Hood, head of the Psychology and Education departments; and Prof. K. J. Foreman, of the Bible department, and professor-elect of Ethics in the Philosophy department.

African Missionary Tells Interesting Experiences
Mr. Craig Tells of Great Need for Service in the Foreign Fields

At the Sunday college “Y” vesper service Mr. Craig, of the Presbyterian Mission in Belgian Congo, brought the students a message from the foreign field, telling in particular of the great call to service there. The religious attitude of the native and his response to the teachings of Christianity formed a striking part of the discourse.

Mr. Craig first said that it seemed strange that he should have come before the men of Davidson five years ago to tell of his experiences in Siberia, the coldest part of the world, and that now he should come to tell them of the Belgian Congo, the hottest place under the sun. He divided the people opposed to work in foreign missions into two classes, “The first, those ignorant of the frightful conditions in heathen lands; and second, those knowing the facts but too selfish to heed the call.”

Big Anthology Issue of Magazine Contains Much Good Verse and Fiction
Twenty-Five Men Contribute to Literary Magazine Which Will Soon Appear

The big anthology issue of the Davidson College magazine is no longer a matter of speculation but an assured fact. According to the editor, A. M. Martin, a contract calling for March 15 as the date of publication has been duly signed. As has been the custom in the past, the magazine will be divided into two sections. The first of the two sections will contain the regular short stories, essays and poems, while the second, the Caps and Bells, will be made up of the best humorous selections to be found.

The first article in the publication is a short story by R. W. Walker, entitled, Dr. Hyde Remodeled. It is a good story and is an excellent one with which to begin the magazine. A. F. Simpson also has a good one, The Last Shot. It is the story of two men who were in love with the same girl for the entire four years of the war. The men battled in the war and for the hand of the young lady. At the end of the war they settled things by killing each other.

There are several particularly good stories which are each worth reading. The third number in the first section is a group of four poems by three members of the Junior class and the editor-in-chief. The issue is abundantly supplied with essays, there being approximately 10 in all. The subjects treated by the essays vary to a considerable degree. One in particular has to deal with the study of astronomy. There are several others on scientific subjects and all of them are of particular interest to college students. In the first section there is also an editorial page and the exchange department.

The last section contains only two articles but they give promise of being well worth the cost of the magazine. They are Just My Luck and English As She Is Spoke by Mr. and Mrs. Anonymous, respectively.From Mark four of “Behold there went out a sower to sow,” Mr. Craig said that in answer “to the sower when he goes out to sow, there come two questions that demand an answer; the first of them, Is there a demand for this crop? and the second, Will the fruit be worth the labor?” Now applying these questions to the field of foreign service: “Is there a demand?” Does the heathen live in need of the brand of religion that the Protestant faith can bring him?” He showed very conclusively how each should be answered “Yes.”

The vesper service was marked by enthusiastic singing led by Tom Barr, assisted by Wilbur Hodgkin at the piano. Norman Patterson and Wallace Pusdy led in prayer. A special musical number, “The Riches of Love in Christ Jesus,” was sung by the K. K. Quartet: A. M. Martin, M. Lockhart, D. G. Wilson, and R. S. Lorance.

The following students have made contributions to the coming issue of the magazine, whether in short poems: R. W. Walker, R. T. Simpson, R. W. Graves, P. M. P. O'Connor, A. M. Martin, stories, essays or Kimzey, A. S. Patterson, E. L. D. Wharton, G. D. Rogers, C. F. Smith, S. W. Brown, T. C. Barr, R. B. Parker, W. C. Ogden, F. F. Monk, H. C. Lawson, H. B. Price, J. R. Gudger, A. H. Hollingsworth, J. R. Earnest, L. B. Gibbs, and T. G. McCutcheon.

INFIRMARY NEWS
Charles Baskerville and Henry Newsom, who have both been ill with pneumonia lately, have gone home to recuperate. Baskerville’s mother stated a day or so ago that Charlie is much better and will be back in school soon. Henry Newsom is also recovering rapidly.

Down in Mississippi, a University student was shot by the postmaster between halves of a basketball game. The paper comes out with the startling information that sympathy was with the shot student.

RESERVED MARCH 20 ENTERTAINMENT UNDER AUSPICES OF AND FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE DAVIDSONIAN

Wildcats Down Georgia Tech 36-27 By Fast Passing and Accurate Shooting

Local Circle To Send a Delegate
The Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fraternity will hold its sixth annual convention February 20 and 21, at Williamsburg, Va. The Eta Circle, at William and Mary, will be the host. Twelve circles will have delegates present, in addition to the grand officers and alumni members of the fraternity. The Delta Circle, at Davidson, has elected as its delegate C. M. S. Mellwaine, with L. B. Price as alternate. At the coming convention, important matters will be taken up, such as: The policy and program of extension during the coming year, the proposed changes in the constitution, petitions from several colleges for charters, and, at this time, the circles will give their annual report on the activities of their respective circles.

The Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity is an honorary society composed of Seniors and Juniors of the college in which the circle is located. The student membership is made up of the leaders in all branches of activities of the college. The meetings are primarily discussions between faculty and student members concerning different phases of college life in an effort to improve the conditions on the campus.

Strong V. P. I. Team Wins Over Davidson Wrestlers
Phil Cox and Frierson Win by Time — Fine Exhibition of Wrestling Art
The V. P. I. wrestling team defeated the Wildcat mat men at the Davidson gym last Saturday night, by the score of 17 to 6. Four time decisions and one fall were taken by the Gobblers, while the Wildcats succeeded in breaking two time decisions. All the matches were well fought and were great exhibitions of defensive work, there being only one fall in the seven matches. Two of the matches had to be stretched into extra time periods. Ray, V. P. I., defeated Patterson, Davidson, in one of these matches. L. P. Cox, Davidson, won from Faulkner, V. P. I., in the other extra period match. Frierson, Davidson, in winning his match from Barr, V. P. I., showed excellent technique both on the defensive and on the offensive. This was one of the prettiest matches of the evening. Phil Cox made an excellent comeback in winning his match, being on the underside several times in the main match, he came back in the extra period and defeated his man. The Davidson team, although defeated, showed excellent training, and the promise of giving Carolina a stiff fight in the near future. The V. P. I. team deserves much credit for the excellent work and spirit that was shown here.

The results are as follows:
119 pounds—Frierson, Davidson, won from Barr, V. P. I., on time, 5:46.
129 pounds—Mava, V. P. I., defeated Barrington, Davidson, 6 minutes.
139 pounds—Ronzi, V. P. I., won his match from W. D. Cox, Davidson, 3:5.
149 pounds—L. P. Cox, Davidson, won on extra time period match from Faulkner, V. P. I., 12 minutes.
159 pounds—Ray, V. P. I., defeated Patterson, Davidson, in an extra period, 2:6.
Light-heavy—Miles, V. P. I., won from Vance, Davidson, 2:32.
Unlimited—Lineburg, V. P. I., threw Summers, Davidson.

Younger’s Men Take Great Game Tuesday Night in Queen City
WILDCATS ALL STAR
But McConnell and Anderson Play Greatest Games as They Lead Davidson Attack
Charlotte, N.C., February 17—The Davidson Wildcats tonight defeated Georgia Tech basketball squad 36-27 in a thrilling game of fast play. Coach Younger’s men, throughout the entire game, led the Yellow Jackets but repeated rallies by the Georgia men turned the auditorium into a bedlam of excitement. Displaying a great game of fast teamwork and balanced shooting, the Wildcats were able to trim the Tech squad. With their defensive system at its best, the Davidson men forced the Techmen to long shots while winning on accurate caging at short distances. In the first half, with McConnell playing a wonderful game at guard, time after time breaking up the Tech shots and sending the ball down to the Wildcat territory, Georgia was beaten by a score of 23 to 13. The second period started off with a bang as Tech approached the Wildcat lead with some quick shots, finally reaching their height at 24-28, Davidson leading. The work of Jarron was good for the Jackets while the play of the entire Davidson squad was about balanced with McConnell and Anderson bearing the brunt of the attack.

Nice Crowd of Men Vie Out for the Big Debates
Debate With Michigan Aggies and Wake Forest Will be Interesting
The two varsity debates and the triangular Fresh debate are creating quite a stir on the campus. Up to date, some ten or fifteen men have signed for the preliminaries and have already started reading material and making out their briefs. The debate with Michigan A. & M. hangs in the balance for the present as the query decided on by Davidson was not accepted, and telegraphic correspondence between the two schools has not brought a satisfactory solution. The date for the match has been agreed, however, the Westerners are to meet our team here on the 8th of April. Wake Forest and Davidson are to match wits in the auditorium of Queens the night of May 1. The query for the Wake Forest debate is: Resolved: That the Congress of the United States should be given power to overrule, by a two-thirds majority, decisions of the Supreme Court. There are to be three men on each team with an alternate acting as manager. The date for the preliminaries has been set for March 3. At that time the following are expected to report for the trials: Ben Ratchford, Don Wharton, A. Y. Bowie, Paul Patterson, Archie Ray, Roland Parker, Harllee Branch, Buck Shaw, Ernest Milton, Warren Ogden, Lawrence Little, Harry Price, C. E. Houston, and others. It is from this group that both of the teams are to be selected. Only three of the contestants have served on regular teams before: Ratchford and Little have been alternates and Wharton and Branch were on the Fresh team of last year. Just two days before our varsity team clashes with Michigan, the Fresh teams of Carolina, Wake Forest, and Davidson meet in their regular triangular debate.

Mr. J. P. Williams has been suffering from an attack of influenza but is rapidly recovering. His many friends hope his recovery will be immediate.