EDAVI FOR A BETTER TH DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 12, 1925 DAVIDSON No.1 17

State Y.M.C.A. Worker Speaks of Workability of Christian Religion

INTENSELY GRIPPING

Brings Home Practical Side of Religion to Students—Introduced by Mr. Williams

For vesper services last Sabbath evening the "Y" speaker was one of the best-known workers in the state Y.M.C.A. work,
Mr. J. Wilson Smith, of Charlotte, who gave a concise discussion of the workability of the Christian religion in individual
lives. Mr. Smith is the state “Y" secretary and prominent in Y.M.C.A. activities among the men and young men of
this entire section. Mr. Williams, in introducing the speaker, recited an anecdote which involved the conversation between two men who
were once looking upon Niagara Falls. One of the men expressed his belief that the falls represented the greatest source
of power in the whole country. His companion, disagreeing, replied: “No, it isn't; manhood is the greatest power in this
or any nation.” Mr. Williams pointed out that Mr. Smith has been and is devoting his time and ability to
the building up of a strong Christian manhood in the South.

Taking as an antithetical basis or theme for his talk an article by Rupert Hughes appearing in a recent issue
of a largely circulated magazine, Mr. Smith gave his own reasons for disapproving of that article. Hughes’ article was written
to show wherein the Christian religion has failed to solve the world’s problems. Mr. Smith stated that, since he wasn't
a theologian, he would not attempt to refute Hughes’ assertions, but from his own Christian experiences would offer his method
of solving the problem. “Christianity is the only solid, substantial, and satisfying way of solving our problems,” he declared. “Christianity
alone can give us satisfaction when we are in such a mood as was Robert Burns when he wrote ‘Bonie
Doon.’” “Harry Lauder is not a great entertainer in the true sense of the word. Nor has he an exceptional
voice. But his heart is big,” continued the speaker. And then he related how Lauder was too weak of heart
and lacking in willpower to notify his wife when their son was killed in France. The great comedian was about
to seek a haven from his heavy sorrow in a saloon, but on the way (Continued on page 8)

Volunteer Conference At Carolina Next Week

Record-Breaking Attendance is Expected at the Fourteenth Annual Conclave

From all reports, the fourteenth annual conference of the North Carolina Volunteer Union, to be held at Chapel Hill, February
20, 21, and 22, will be one of the best in the history of the organization. It commences Friday evening
and lasts through Sunday evening. The conference was invited to Chapel Hill by the University “Y” and they are putting
forth every effort to make the meeting a marked success. As this is the only time of the year the
volunteers have a “get-together” and on account of the interesting program that has been arranged, a record-breaking conference in every
respect is expected. The spiritual side will be stressed at the conference more than anything else, consecration and prayer being
the keynotes. In order to accomplish most and obtain the best results, the state officers are anxious to have a
creditable delegation from each college. Each institution is allowed several delegates. The local band, under the lead- (Continued on page
6)

Next Year to See Change in Faculty

Says the Catalogue

The 1925-26 Davidson College Catalogue, which is now in the process of printing, announces several changes in the faculty. Dr.
Frazer Hood will not be back but will pursue studies in psychology in Europe. After his leave of absence, he
expects to again take up his former work here. It has not been announced who will fill the chair of
psychology and education left vacant by Dr. Hood. Prof. W. N. Mebane, who has been assistant professor in Physics for
the last two years, will be assistant in Mathematics next year. He will take the place of Prof. C. K.
Brown, who will do post-graduate work at the University of North Carolina. Prof. L. M. Currie will return this fall
as assistant in Physics. He formerly held this position here, but for the last two years has been studying at
Cornell University, where he will receive his Ph.D. degree this spring. Mr. J. H. Davis, who was instructor in Biology
last year and who is now taking post-graduate work in science at the University of Chicago, will again be assistant
to Dr. Porter. One new professor will be added to the faculty. Mr. J. C. Bailey, who is now superintendent
of the Davidson High Schools, will be assistant to Dr. M. E. Sentelle in Bible, and to Dr. C. R.
Harding in Greek. (Continued on page 6)

Societies to Alter Old System of Prize Awards

Efforts of Forensic Council

New Plan for Awarding Medals Instituted

Some time ago it was announced by the Forensic Council that a new system of awarding prizes and medals in
the literary societies had been formulated by that body and submitted to the societies for their approval. It was felt
that something was needed to stimulate interest in the contests staged by the literary societies each year, and to attach
more value to a prize won in such a contest. This new system has been approved by three of the
four societies—the Eumenean, the Pandemic, and the Philanthropic. The Erophilian society is to act on it at its next meeting.
It is believed by many that they, too, will accept the proposed change. The changes proposed are for the purpose
of attaching more value to the prizes to be competed for, and thereby stimulating more interest. Instead of competing only
against the members of his own society, a member must match his ability against that of men from the other
three societies as well. This will give him more competition and thereby make his achievement greater in winning. Thus it
will mean more for a man to win the prize than heretofore. The Fresh-Soph declamation contest will be abolished and
only Freshmen will compete for a declamation medal to be given to the best declaimer in the Freshman class. In
the Fresh-Soph and Junior-Senior debates, only one medal will be given. This will go to the best speaker in the
finals, regardless of his team. To win this medal a man must not only be a good speaker, but must
be able to work well with others. The Junior orator’s medal will be given as in the past, six contestants
being chosen in a general contest, and the winner of the medal being selected from this number when the finals
are held at Junior Speaking. Writing is considered just as much a part of literary work as speaking, and so
an Essayist’s medal will also be awarded. The award is to be made by a committee composed of members of
the faculty. This is a new feature, such an award having been (Continued on page 8)

Davidson and the Durham Elks Split Pair of Games

Red and Black Cagers Drop Game in Durham by 49-33

ALL PERFORM WELL

Team Comes Back Strong in Friday Night Game With 44-33 Score

Showing an attack, the strength of which would be hard to excel, the Davidson Wildcats overwhelmed the Durham Elks in
a fast contest on Friday, February 6. At no time was the Davidson lead in danger of defeat, and the
margin was at least a 10-point lead throughout the game. The game was fast and furious and at no time
did the interest of the spectators lag. At times fouls marred the play but these were overlooked as the game
was lively. When the first half was over the score stood 20 to 10 in favor of Davidson. The second
half started with a rush and for a time promised to be a bit closer as both teams were scoring
equally for the first five minutes. Then Davidson, in one of her customary spurts, started a drive which netted 14
points before Durham could score, and from this time on there was little doubt as to the final outcome. For
Davidson, Staley played one of his best games. Anderson was the same dependable player, while Beall and McConnell never faltered.
Boggs’ game would have been hard to have been improved.Upon, with one was have Mangum played the steadiest. The line-up
was as follows:

Davidson (44) Position Durham Elks (23)
Right forward
Left forward
Center
Right guard
Left guard

The action became more intense again. His Wildcat Matmen Win Match With State But Nearing Holidays Drop One to the
Navy. The plans of the committee which is working on “Junior Speaking” are beginning to take on a more definite
form. All members are working hard, and their aim is to make this “Speaking” the best yet. The program, as
outlined, is about as follows: On Thursday night there will be a picture. The Junior orators will speak on Friday
morning. The Glee Club has agreed to give their performance on Friday afternoon. An inter-class track meet will be held
on Saturday, and a baseball game on Saturday night is the main feature.

The Davidson wrestling squad split even on its Eastern trip as the Wildcats won 11 to 6 from North Carolina
State and lost 27-0 to the powerful Naval Academy team. The victory over State marked the opening of Davidson's inter-collegiate
season on the mat, though they had previously won two matches from the Concord “Y” team.

The Wildcats grapplers won out in the Frank Thompson Gymnasium in Raleigh with Frierson throwing his man by fall, Bill
Cox and Captain Patterson winning on time, and two matches drawing. State won the other two events. The summary follows:

117 pounds—Frierson (Davidson) threw Crawford (State) in six minutes.
129 pounds—Sherman (State) won on time over Barrington (Davidson).
139 pounds—Bill Cox (Davidson) won on time over Thomas (State).
149 pounds—Captain Hicks (State) and L. P. Cox (Davidson) drew.
159 pounds—Captain Patterson (Davidson) won over Harrill (State) on time.
Light heavyweight—Nicholson (State) and Vance (Davidson) drew.
Heavyweight—Lambe (State) won from Captain Patterson (Davidson) on time.

Two nights later, the Wildcats proved to be no match for the experienced Navy crew, who waded through them for
three falls and another victory. The main event, of course, is the Saturday night performance. No announcement has been made
as to the nature of the entertainment, but it is to be a unique one, and is occupying the attention
of every member of the committee. The other part of the program has been definitely decided upon, and this event
will claim their almost undivided attention from now on. Capable persons are being consulted, and the work is progressing favorably.
One of the features of the week will be the magazine, which will appear with an overabundance of news, fiction,
and jokes.

Saturday night promises to be one of the gala occasions of the new year as the Wildcats stage two athletic
meets and the picture show promoters give a free show to complete the round of happiness. Meeting the Virginia Tech
grapplers in the first home collegiate meet of the season, preceded by Coach Younger’s basketball team against the Belmont Abbey
team, and then Rupert Hughes’ latest novel “Glorious Me,” the Wildcats will have a full schedule. The wrestling match was
extended to two extra periods, with Frierson (Davidson) and Slaven (Navy) fighting through the regular 10-minute period, Slaven finally winning
out with only 20 seconds' advantage. It was a close shave and only the hairbreadth decision brought defeat to the
Wildcat.

The other matches were rather one-sided with the Navy always on the big end of the score. After winning from
the Carolina Techmen and losing in a disastrous match with the great Naval Academy, the Wildcats returned under Captain Patterson's
leadership for a week of hard training in preparation for Saturday's meet. The V. P. I. team, always strong, is
unusually powerful this year, starting off Saturday week with a walloping victory over the Cavaliers from the University of Virginia,
18-3. The Virginia team was able to win only one match from Tech and that by a decision in the
unlimited class. The Gobblers took three matches by falls and one by time decision. Captain Rouzie of the 135-pound class
is one of the best wrestlers in the Old Dominion and his match promises to be a real fight.

Coach Younger will turn his Wildcats loose upon the Belmont Abbey basketball quint in an effort to prevent the Davidson
boys from going stale before the hard grind that will face them during the last 11 days of February. The
game will mark the beginning of the night’s entertainment. Reports are that Marvin Ritch will bring over a strong aggregation
to fight the Wildcats, and a good game will no doubt come off. Manager Littlejohn, in announcing that the show
Saturday night would be given “gratis” to the student body, said that he highly recommended it to those who wanted
to experience a thrilling time as the closing feature of the week’s work. With Conrad Nagel, Norma Shearer, Renée Adorée,
and John Boles playing together, it promises to be an exciting event.

On Tuesday night of last week, the Wildcats met the Durham Elk team and caught the little end of a
49 to 33 score. The whole Elk team was in fine form, shot goals from all angles. They were invincible,
but the Wildcats stayed with them to the final whistle and fought as only a fast Wildcat team knows how
to fight.

BASEBALL PRACTICE STARTS IN RAIN

With intermittent showers of rain falling all Monday afternoon, the pitchers and catchers of the school answered the call of
Coach Younger for the first practice of the season. “Dutch” Hengeveld, former Davidson athlete and coach, will have charge of
the few weeks of extra work that the Davidson coaches are planning to run the batteries through. Coach Hengeveld played
several summers with the Little Rock, Ark., baseball club of the Southern League. He has coached many Davidson teams to
success. With Flake Laird out with the basketball team, only Hampton from last year’s Fresh nine and Oden and Kimbrough
are out for the pitcher’s position. Wick Black, along with Frank Alford, are at the receiving end.

Sophomores Plan Gala Event for Queen City

Plans indicate a successful banquet this year—Branch is Toastmaster. The attention of the entire Sophomore class is now being centered
on arrangements for the annual class banquet. Plans began to take a definite form when President Bill Covington called a
meeting of the class Monday morning and the real steps decided on to be taken in arranging for this important
event. The meeting was filled with enthusiasm and the work was carried through with a rush. When the question arose
as to when the banquet would be held, there was much discussion. It was finally decided that the second week
in March would best suit the class and as it is too far off to set a definite date, it
was moved and carried that the setting of the exact date be left in the hands of the committee to
be appointed by the president to arrange for the banquet.

A real discussion arose upon the question of deciding the place of the banquet. After some discussion, it was found
that the majority were determined that this event should be held in the Queen City.
