THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

CONGRATULATIONS NORTH CAROLINA

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-

Diamond Artists Sent Through Hard Workouts
Coach Younger Must Build Nine Out of Veteran Infield and Weak Pitching Staff
Dark Horse of State

Starting the season of 1925 as the dark horse of North Carolina, Davidson will open with two games with Oak Ridge the last of March and with State College the first day of April. With one pitcher, a catcher, three varsity infielders and two outfielders back, Coach Younger has more than the usual number of letter men to work with, but far from first-class material. Of the men who will make the team, none averaged over the coveted .300 last year, though Laird, Vance, and Captain Covington were steady hitters, and the two Alford boys were good in pinches. Several valuable men are up from last year’s Freshman class team.

With Laird the only regular pitcher back on the Hill, the staff looks from the start to be weak. Hampton will probably give good service on the mound, going well for the Freshmen last season, while Oden and Kimbrough are in the running. With the return of Sim Wrenn, backstop on the 1921 team, quite a bit of scheming to cover the position was discontinued. Black, Summers, and Estridge are all doing work behind the plate. Woodham, Frank Alford, and Kugler are the most likely prospects for the initial sack. There is a great probability that Alford will be shifted back to the garden if Woodham can stand the pace at the bat. Kelly's fielding is well-nigh perfect, but he is a little weak at the plate. Alford’s hitting alone will win him a position in the outfield if he is shifted. Simpson seems to have second pretty well sewed up, with Long and Kimbrough, should he be transferred from the moundsmen, runners-up. Sion Alford is having little trouble at short, though Glenn is pushing him. Captain Covington, at third, is showing the same form that was in evidence all last season. In the outfield, Vance at the present time is the only letter man, though Cox, Walter Davis, and Sparrow are promising recruits. Pressly and Simpson are also in the outfield squad. When Flake is off the mound and Woodham is covering first, there will be three letter men available for the outer gardens, Vance, Laird, and Frank Alford. Coach Younger is sending his team out upon a much harder schedule than last year, and already his men are experiencing hard workouts every afternoon.

TENNIS TOURNAMENT STARTS NEXT WEEK

According to an announcement made by Manager Beall, of the tennis team, the first of the pre-season matches of the court game will be held the last of this week with Charlotte “Y” furnishing the opposition. The match has not been definitely arranged but in all probability it will be staged on the Hill, but, even if it is not held here, it will take place in the Queen City. It is understood that the Charlotte team has quite a formidable array of former college stars. Another statement of more than usual interest was that the spring tournament would be held the first of next week. All those interested should prepare accordingly.

The Sport Flashes
By DON WHARTON

Although Davidson has not yet wired congratulations to the North Carolina quint for winning the Southern championship, as some schools did, nevertheless their victory was received in the Wildcat camp with rejoicing from the great majority.

In fact, we were backing them from the very start. Read this same column of February 26—“but we're backing Carolina!”

No all-state basketball selections have come out yet. Sunday’s papers, which usually follow the season with resumes and mythical picks, were conspicuous with the absence of this provocative material.

Most everyone is of the opinion that the Tar Heel team is about the best all-state team that can be picked up in this (or any) State.

At any length, that’s what we found Coach Younger thinking when called upon Monday night for his selections.

With Captain Cobb, Dodderer, and Billy Devin all making the all-Southern quint, Sam Macdonald just barely edged out by Lind, of Tulane, according to Morgan Blake, in The Atlanta Journal, and John Purser a mighty snappy forward, there is little room left for improvement.

However, this doesn’t mean we haven't got a few good basketeers at Davidson.

And they never pick all-state coaches!

Which reminds us that we'll feel a bit better when Tilson and Younger’s names are down on that dotted line. Changes are going on at all schools, Duke University is looking near and far for a good coach. They say that Big Jim Baldwin is the man that will land the job.

Coming down from Lehigh he spent a year (or more?) at the Methodists’ plant. And wasn't it Baldwin’s team that beat the Wildcats 12-0 in 1922 and Wake Forest 3-0? Second thought reveals that it was the year after he had built that team.

Fisher has finally agreed to go back to Harvard for another year, but he has Daly to help him. Daly is there with their R. O. T. C. department. Davidson has profited a bit from army officers stationed here in the past years—Captain Ellis with the track squad, and Captain Weems with the “wrestlers.”

And wasn't it Captain George who coached the Fresh team of the fall of 1922, the team that placed Baker, Vance, Laird, Black, and Sappenfield, on the varsity? And he’s still sending high school men “up from the ranks.”

With the thud of the leather sphere in the mitt and the crack against the bat every afternoon, one begins to turn his attention to what theOther colleges of the state are going to put on the diamond this spring. Over here at Davidson, there is a scarcity of pitchers and an abundance of nothing except pep. With Laird and Wrenn for a battery, Woodham, Simpson, Alford, and Captain Covington in the infield, and Frank Alford, Vance, and some newcomer in the outer gardens, a strong team can go on the field every other game.

However, the Techmen are going to encounter some rough going this year. Carolina, with eight lettermen back, will probably have a good team, but Coach Bill is going to have to go some to fill in the three vacant infield positions. Morris, McDonald, and Thomas, at the three bases, are all gone, and someone will have to play out of position.

The netmen are to be coached this year by Joe B. Whitner, of Cornelius, who has coached here with marked success for several years. A match is pending with Duke to be held here the latter part of April. An announcement will be made later concerning this meeting.

Hickory Downed, 48-0 in Spring Football Clash
Tilson’s Squad Overpowers Fighting Eleven from West in Thrilling Encounter
Arrowood Looks Great

The annual spring football practice of the Wildcat squad ended Saturday with the defeat of Hickory High School 48-0. The high school lads were unable to withstand the vicious line plunges and off-tackle plays of the Wildcats and allowed them to push over seven touchdowns. The game, despite the large score, was well fought throughout and equaled many fall games in thrilling plays and interest. The teamwork and coordination of both teams were inspiring in view of the short time that the teams had been working. No individual stars could be picked as there were numerous substitutions, no Wildcat player playing the entire game. The members of the Fresh eleven showed great promise and the old men played true to form. The Freshmen playing well were Arrowood, McComb, Melton, and Ritchie, while Baker, Black, and others played their usual form and fight. The touchdowns were made mainly by line bucks, although one was an intercepted pass, while another was made on a fumble.

The line-up:
Hickory. Position. Davidson.
Baker (G) Left end Bowman
Lincoln Left tackle McNeil
Bolick Left guard McConnell
Bruin Center Steele
Green Right guard Anderson
Robinson Right tackle Arrowood
Cox (G) Right end Sappenfield
Gastineau Quarterback Leggette
Cunningham Left half Black
Davidson Right half Wells
Hickory Fullback Nesbit

Davidson: 7 14 7 20—48
Hickory: 0 0 0 0—0

Substitutions—Davidson: Wells, Ritchie, Mitchell, Bohannon, Christian, Grey, Long, Melton, Allen, Pinkney, Wilson, Nesbit, McGeachy, McMillan, Harrison, Stowe, Laws, Patterson, Harmon, Sims. Referee: Schenk (Davidson), umpire: Crayton (Davidson); head linesman: Rawson (Georgia). Touchdowns: Black, McComb, Arrowood, Allen, Wells, Nesbit, Melton.

MANY GOOD SCHOOLS ENTER TRACK MEET

According to Coach Tilson, the state-wide high school track meet to be held at Davidson on March 21 promises to be a great success. Already the answers from the various high schools are coming in expressing their eagerness to enter the meet. Among those who have already accepted the invitations extended to them are Charlotte, Statesville, Salisbury, and Winston-Salem. Coach Tilson is exerting all his energies toward making this event a success. The primary purpose of the meet is to encourage track here at Davidson and to awaken a new interest in this branch of athletics. Davidson for the past few years has lagged too far behind her rivals in this sport, depending too entirely upon a few individuals doing all the work while several capable men haven’t enough interest to even go out.

The loving cup that is to be given to the high school team making the highest total of points will be a trophy worth competing for. The Davidson Freshmen will also be eligible to enter the meet, but they are not eligible to win the cup. The meet will doubtless begin at 3:00 o'clock as there will no doubt be a necessity for several heats to be run in the dashes and it will take some time for all the events to take place. The following is the list of events: 100-yard dash, 220-yard dash, 440-yard dash, one-half mile, mile, and two-mile, 120 high hurdles, 220 low hurdles, 12-pound shot put, discus, javelin, high jump, broad jump, and pole vault. The Davidson student body will be hosts to the high schools that day.

NORTH CAROLINA BASEBALL INDEX
School, Captain, Position, Coach, College, respectively:
Davidson—Covington, 3b; Younger, Davidson, V. P. I.
Carolina—Bonner, catcher; Fetzer, Davidson.
Wake Forest—Armstrong, 1b; Garrity, Princeton.
N. C. State—Lassiter, 1b; Doak, Guilford.
Duke—Demster, pitcher; Towe, Trinity.

HEST COLDS
Redden the skin by the use of hot applications. Then massage briskly with Vicks, spread Vicks on thickly and cover with hot flannel cloths.

VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

When You Need Candy See Us
Wholesale
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.