THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 19, 1925

H. M. Johnston
Staple and Fancy Groceries
QUICK DELIVERY
Phone 20

WRIGLEY'S
After every meal
Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that overeaten feeling and acid mouth. Its l-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving
for sweets. Wrigley's is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Interviews With the Intelligentsia

After many hours of waiting and standing in a crowded hall, hungry and tired, the writer of this article was
able to get a few minutes’ interview with C. R. Hunter, one of the most intelligent men on the venerable
campus of dear old Davidson. I found Mr. Hunter to be a very well-dressed man, simple in his tastes and
appearance. One would never think him guilty of the Honor Roll. I was very anxious to hear of his past
life and just how he has achieved the ultra-impossible.

“I was always very bright in grammar school,” said Mr. Hunter. “As Caesar Socrates, I lisped the alphabet at birth.
I had a great setback in the second grade. I was set back to the first, where I remained for
a length of time, mastering the fundamentals of which I will mention in my autobiography. My high school career was
a very spotted one—my report card was spotted with zeroes throughout my first two years. Before coming to college, I
realized that I had to have better preparation than that afforded by my home on this impulse—no, acting on ideas—I
read Virgil and Plato for some weeks. I think I completed the table of contents in each book. I have
also read the life of Wilson, which has been a great inspiration in my achievements. College work has been a
great thing for me. I have not had to cut any wood nor milk any cows for these four years,
nor do I do any agricultural work. Yes, I think the farmers should be exempt from high taxes, but don’t
quote me. You were asking about my everyday life: I live on a very simple diet, go to bed at
ten and get up and study at five. This is a very good schedule and I suggest that all who
wish to attain success follow this impulse.”

More trouble was experienced in getting an interview with Richard Littlejohn, an honorable member of the H. C., and several
other orders. The reporter from the American fought manfully to get ahead of the writer, while the editor of Who's
Who tried bribery, while a lady reporter from the Police Gazette was in tears over her failure to get an
interview.

Littlejohn belies his name; he is a very large man, well-built and carries himself well above all others. In fact,
he is a head above the most of us in all respects. He is as handsome as he is brilliant,
a very congenial person and dotes on the Freshman.

“My success is not due alone to the fact that I am from Charlotte, which is in my opinion the
only city of worth in the South, but rather to the fact that I am naturally brainy. This is a
secret of my success, as you well know the world is not aware of this fact.”

At this moment a telegram was handed to the great man. He turned to me and said: “You must excuse
me; this is a message from Oxford, offering me the stool of Philology. I must go to wire them my
refusal of the offer, as I have no time to waste on those provincial prep schools.” So I was cheated
out of my interview.

Finding Mr. McSwain proved easy, but getting an interview proved harder. His extreme modesty would not allow him to talk.
“I can only say,” he remarked, “that I owe my success to Nuxated Iron and to my association with ‘Cuba’
McCallum. Also, I take Public Speaking.” Mr. McSwain would say no more.

It was nearly night when the writer finally reached the handsome building in which Trawick roomed. The writer was tired
after his work of the morning with lesser lights and was very glad of the respite to be had by
meeting the great man to whom the whole college bowed in subservience. As the writer neared the room, he saw
a terrible sight. Strong men and weak, crying and weeping, holding each other up, wringing their hands, and crying aloud
in their hopeless anguish. One man, pale looking as if the entire world had fallen in, came out of the
room. In his hand was a piece of black crepe!

“What does this mean?” I cried. At first, I received no answer, but on repeating my anxious query, I found
that the Great Stude was on his death bed! I rushed through the open door to get a last word.
A most heart-breaking and pitiful spectacle greeted my eyes. There on the little white cot lay the man to whom
the whole world would have appealed in an intellectual crisis, white, thin, and gasping his last. As I neared the
cot, he and I made out a few words: “Oh, Virgil, where...”

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.

Phonograph Records 50c each

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers in Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTYis the coefficient of linear expansion? Bring me a dozen friend ohms, Oh, for a stewed ampere! Ah,
would that I could eat a right angle, garnished with French verbs and flanked with juicy hydrogen ions.” Delirium, nothing
else. He breathed his last and I took off my hat in reverence and bowed out of the room. A
muttering among the crowd attracted my attention. Perhaps I could find the cause of this demise, so unexpected and so
sad. They spoke like Socrates, and Gay-Lussac, and the crowd. “Graves, Graves, Graves,” muttered the crowd. “Who is Graves?” I
asked. “The cause of our loss, the brute, the low usurper.” I saw that a riot was impending, so I
took myself away to look for this terrible Graves who had caused this catastrophe that was so appalling. I approached
the hall Georgia around this handsome gray building, with its green bushes and bright shrubbery. I found a second crowd,
far different than the one at the home of The Great One. This was a glad throng. Banners bellied and
swayed in the breeze; great shouts rose, they cheered, they shrieked, they wept with joy. They kissed each other, some
fainted out of sheer joy. I heard the name of Graves repeated over and over. I rushed in the elevator
which carried me to the third floor, where I was met by an armed guard. I showed my reporter’s card
and was allowed to pass. Then, I met a group of men equipped with life preservers and corkscrews and “Keep
Cool in Case of Fire” written on them. After showing my card a second time I was admitted to the
room of this Graves person. He was seated on a great golden throne; while at the foot of the throne
was piled gifts from the mob. I saw at once that he held absolute sway over the mob, causing them
to do just as he wished. I could only gasp for my breath in front of so majestic a man
and so great a display of hero worship. “Why,” asked I, “is all of this done; why bow down to
this, a mere man?” “What, what, have you not heard?” he asked. I was ashamed to admit that I had
not. “Fool, do you not know that Graves has made one hundredth of a point more than Trawick on the
term average?” I was carried to the emergency hospital, where I am now in a state of coma.

ADVICE TO GIRLS WHO WRITE US LETTERS

If you must save ink, at least don’t use “c” for “see.” Don’t tell us about your affairs with somebody
else. We can’t help it. Don’t underscore words. We are far enough advanced to know what you want stressed. Don’t
give the excuse that you have some others to write to. That doesn’t compensate for only thirty-three words and doesn’t
make us feel any better. We don’t give a whoop about the weather so don’t tell us about it. And
if it makes you feel blue it’s all the same to us. Don’t bother to ask us about why we
don’t write you. If we don’t it means one of two things. Either we haven't got time or we don’t
want to. Don’t apologize for your letter being late. We're not as anxious to get it as you think. Don’t
bother to mark little crosses for kisses. We'll ask for them when the time comes. Explanation marks don’t thrill us
and neither do the dashes. And we ain't sorry for poor little you just because you have a test tomorrow.
We have tests too.

Anonymously yours,
A GRIPPED CYNIC.

Burns Gibbs is such a good boy that he says he'll never marry because he could never stand to be
called “Dad Burns.”

Charlotte Scientists say that in a hundred years there will be nothing in the world to laugh at. We beg
to disagree. There will still be Freshmen.

PHONE 298
Surgeon: "I'll sew that scalp wound for you for $10."
John Gallent: "Gosh, Doc! I just want plain sewing, not embroidery!"

Down in Georgia:
Farmer Deek: "Wanta buy a jug of cider?"
Ditto Franklin: “Is it—er—ambitious and willing to work?”

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

EVERYTHING NEW AND UP-TO-DATE
Theatre perfectly ventilated, scientifically heated
Comfortable seats
Good music and only high-class pictures shown here
Showing daily from 1 to 11 P. M.
No intermission
We appreciate your patronage
VICTORY THEATRE
CHAS. A. PEELER, Mgr.

A dairy maid milked the pensive goat,
And panting, paused to mutter:
“I wish, you brute, you'd turn to milk,”
And the animal turned to butter.

“Did you read about the man who went 35 days without taking a bath?”
“No, I never read dirty stories.”

On Friday evening Mrs. J. M. Douglas entertained the recently organized “As You Like It” club. A pleasant afternoon was
spent by those present. Refreshments, carrying out the idea of hearts and Valentine colors, were tastefully and daintily served.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Player Piano Rolls
Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
