THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1925

WALTER SHUFORD N. C. State, Half

Walter and Charlie Shuford are from Shelby High School, where Hugh Arrowood hails from.

GLEE CLUB TO PRESENT

(Continued from page 1)

Tom Barr respectively have met hearty approval wherever they have played and will probably be among the most popular numbers
of the evening. Wood Brown, V. J. Guthery, and Deck, taking parts in an original one-act play, give the audience
something really worthwhile. Prof. F. J. Erwin supervises the club which annually gives exhibitions of real dramatic art at the
various college festivities. The act promises to be a modern love scene. Sloan will take the part of the young
lady whose hand is sought by the lovers, Cox, Wilson, O'Neal, and Lovelace. Forest Franklin will be the father of
the girl and will contribute much to the comedy in his dealing with his daughter's suitors.

The Seniors, in contrast with the modern Juniors, will render the famous balcony scene from “Romeo and Juliet” in pantomime.
This stunt will be featured by the gorgeous costumes and stage setting and the art of Shakespearean actors who will
put across the thought without the aid of words. Goodykoontz with his committee, Higgins, Keerans, and C. W. Williams, are
responsible for the idea and working out of this stunt.

The Sophomores owe half of the idea of their stunt to the Negro race and the other half to the
R. O. T. C. A Negro Court Martial is the name of the stunt they will present. Col. James McAllister,
with the help of his Adj. J. Joyner, will have the ordeal of trying Dick Grey for the heinous crime
of desertion. Corp. Charlie Harrison and Sgt. Boyce Martin will have the arduous task of keeping order in the courtroom,
while the squad composed of Privates Crosland, Laws, Rod McRae, Jim Ervin, Bradford, and Stigler will guard the prisoner. Guthery
is the author of the scene and was assisted in getting it up by Stigler, Lockhart, and Marrow.

The Freshmen are also representing the colored race, in one of their ceremonies, a wedding. The delicate bride, one Purdy,
is joined to the athletic groom, Biggers, by preacher Franklin Cannon. Oates McCullum will be ring bearer and A. C.
Kelley the flower girl. Several others will play important parts. Dick Flinn is chairman of the Fresh committee.

ANNUAL “Y” MEETING

(Continued on page 8)

Dr. Myers addressed his remarks to the young men of the college in a pleasant and forceful way and much
good may be justly expected from the efforts of Dr. Myers.

Glee Club Selects Final Personnel to Make Extended Tour Through Scotland

Following the recent tryouts in which forty men were selected, the glee club is now getting into shape for the
fall and spring trips which it plans to make. During the fall the entire personnel will visit Mooresville and Queens
College and thirty men will make the trips to Salem College and N. C. C. W. at Greensboro. These recitals
include the plans for the club previous to the holidays. The plans for the southern trip in the spring call
for a ten-day trip during the latter part of February. Mrs. Coral Baker, who is instructing the club, will give
final training for the extended trip during the first two weeks of February in preparation for this tour. The itinerary
for this tour includes nine recitals, the furthest south being Milledgeville, Ga., where a recital will be given at Georgia
College for Women. Included in this trip are recitals in Gastonia, Spartanburg, Brenau College at Gainesville, Atlanta, Agnes Scott College
at Decatur, and Georgia College for Women at Milledgeville. On the return trip, the club will visit Augusta, Ga., Chicora
College at Columbia, and either Rock Hill, S. C., or Lancaster before returning to the hill.

In announcing this itinerary, Frank Hudson, manager of the club, stated that shorter recitals will probably be arranged for one
or two other trips in the spring, though the dates for such have not been set. One or more recitals
will be rendered at Davidson.

The leaders of the Glee Club announce that the tone quality and voices of the club this year are better
than in previous years, there being an abundance of good material from which to choose. The Mandolin and Guitar Club,
an important feature of the club, has been increased from three to five members and are this year making a
specialty of popular music. Tootie Crayto and Count Davis are in charge of the Jazz Orchestra which is reputed to
be better than that of last year. This orchestra will make certain that jazz music holds its place on the
programs. Only one quartet will be used this year, this quartet to be composed of D. G. Wilson, M. M.
Lockhart, R. S. Lowrence, and D. M. Calhoun. Besides this quartet, there will be a double quartet, composed of these
and four other members of the club to be selected. The Concert Orchestra will be under the supervision of Tom
Barr, who is well fitted for this position by his former work in the club. One feature of former clubs
will be lacking this year in the absence of blackface singers.

CHARLIE SHUFORD N. C. State, Half

The work of the Shuford brothers against Davidson last year was a feature of the Tech backfield.

FIGHTING WILDCATS BOW

(Continued from page 1)

Hurricane,Route in an attempt to shove across a touchdown that would decide the game. His judgment was good. The ball
was snapped to McGee, who sent it sharply to Tilghman. Tilghman was seen to leap skyward. The ball touched his
fingertips, and as if drawn by a magnet, he garnered it. He lacked one yard of being over the goal
line, and throwing his body forward, the ball went over for the one and only touchdown of the game. A
pass had defeated the Wildcats. Byrns kicked the extra point from placement that made the score 7 to 0. This
was a game of games. The Wildcats were defeated, but in their defeat was honor. From the first, it was
seen Furman was the stronger team, but reliance was placed upon the Wildcats not in vain until the last few
minutes of the game. Never would the Hurricane team have scored through the touchdown the way the Davidson team was
fighting, but the air route proved their undoing.

In the second quarter, the Wildcats missed almost a perfect chance to score. Pinkney blocked an attempted pass in such
a manner that it went straight up into the air. Vance was under it with open arms. He evidently was
too anxious and had a start before he had gathered the ball in; it slipped through his arms, with three
Davidson players there to run interference and only one Furman player between him and the goal. It was the only
seven points that Davidson had a chance to make. Later in that same quarter, Grey attempted a placement kick, but
it fell miserably short. He was standing near the 40-yard line when it was attempted. The only other scoring of
the afternoon tried by that route was when Furman tried a dropkick near the close of the fourth period. Two
more plays and the game was over, Arrowood taking a pass 15 yards and first down as the whistle ended
the game—a game won by the best team on the field.

Rawl and Pipkin were the stars of the Furman team, both of these men being halfbacks. Rawl was slowed up
considerably in the last half, when Pipkin was striking a better stride. Black, for Davidson, played a great defensive game
that day and stopped the telling force. Perhaps one of the outstanding features of the contest was the ability of
Davidson to get down under punts. The whole team is to be commended for that, particularly McConnell, who was tearing
through to nail backs for losses, and Baker, who was prominent in smearing the Furman line. Enlightening statistics are found
elsewhere in the Davidsonian. The line-up and summary follow:

Davidson (0) Position Furman (7)
Arrowood LE Tilghman
Ritchie LT Smith
Grey LG Orr
McConnell C Thomas
Wilkes RG Blackwell
Baker RT Brown
Bohannon RE McGee
Wells QB Reese
Vance LH Pipkin
Grey RH Rawl
Black FB Harrell

Touchdown: Tilghman. Point after touchdown, Byrns. First downs, Furman 9; Davidson 4.

Substitutions: Davidson, Pinkney for Arrowood, Harrison for Wells, Leggette for Harrison, Nisbet for Hewlett, Lincoln for Baker, Melton for J.
Grey, Christian for Vance, Vance for Christian, J. Grey for Melton, Baker for Lincoln, Hewlett for Nisbet, Wells for Harrison,
Pinkney for Arrowood, Laws for J. Grey, Leggette for Hewlett, Harrison for Leggette, Melton for Laws, Pinkney for Bohannon, McComb
for Wells, Nisbet for Harrison. Furman, Laney for Orr, Burns for Brice, Harrell for Laney, Corley for Orr.

Officials: Hartsell (N. State), referee; Sampson (St. Albans), umpire; Foster (Hampden-Sidney), head linesman.

Practically all of the fraternities on the hill are planning house-parties for the weekend so that many feminine visitors will
also be present. Concluding the big day, the annual Stunt Night will be held in Shearer Hall at 8 o'clock.
This is under the direction of the Glee Club and promises to present a fine array of local talent. All
of the classes will have a few minutes for a stunt, and the Glee Club and Dramatic Club will present
short selections. Several individual stunts are being planned and these should also prove to be most entertaining.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050 Residence, 1937-5.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST
Charlotte, N.C.

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 S. Tryon St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

DR. VANCE HASTY
DENTIST
Statesville, N.C.

DR. R. McKEE
CHIROPRACTOR
Mayhew Bldg.
Mooresville, N. C.

LET US DO YOUR CLEANING AND PRESSING
MOORESVILLE AND DAVIDSON
CLOTHES — HATS — HABERDASHERY — SHOES

Fifth Avenue at 46th Street
NEW YORK
