e THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

DAVIDSON VARSITY FOOTBALL SQUAD

Alumni Notes

Jim Carr, ’25, now a Junior at Union Theological Seminary, sends the following information: Of the 151 students at Union
this year, 53 are Davidson men; more than one-third of the entire student body. They are:

Dwight M. Chalmers, ’20, Hoge Fellow.

Seniors:
M. B. Heizer, '21.
P. D. Miller, ’22 (President of Student Body).
J. S. Johnson, ’22.
D. P. McGeachy, ’22.
T. H. Patterson, ’22.
J. C. Wool, ’22.
W. T. Baker, ’23.
P. H. Biddle, ’23.
T. L. Frazer, ’23.
W. A. Gamble, '23.
A. V. Gibson, ’23.
G. W. Mauze, ’23.
R. W. Childress, ex-'23.

Middlers:
B. B. Long, '12.
J. N. Hillhouse, ’13.
L. H. Patterson, ex-'18.
R. R. McIlwaine, ’22.
R. H. Poole, '22.
J. C. B. McLaughlin, ’22.
S. H. Bradley, '23.
J. H. Grey, ’23.
D. H. Ogden, ’23.
R. M. Carr, ’24.
J. C. McJunkin, ’24.
J. L. McLean, ’24.
W. H. Matheson, '24.
G. M. Morrow, ’24.
M. J. Murray, ’24.
J. R. Phipps, ex-’24.
A. J. Warner, ’24.
L. T. Edgerton, ex-’24.

Juniors:
P. Taylor, ’21.
R. Bitzer, ’22.
W. Doggett, ’22.
M. P. Calhoun, ’23.
W. H. Sharpe, ’23.
D. B. Walthall, '24.
H. M. White, ’24.
H. D. Brown, ’25.
S. F. Bryant, ’25.
J. M. Carr, ’25.
P. B. Freeland, ’25.
F. A. Hopkins, ’25.
A. C. Ray, ’25.
W. G. Thomas, ’25.
D. F. Waddell (unknown).

English Course:
G. C. Crowell, ex-’28.
I. E. Hagar, ex-’27.

Graduate Students:
Rev. F. F. Baker, Brazil, ’13.
Rev. L. T. Newland, Korea, '08.
Rev. O. C. Williamson, Mexico, '18.

Special Students:
W. T. Jones, ’24.

HENRY SAPP ELECTED CAPTAIN G. W. TEAM

The following dispatch was clipped from the Winston-Salem Journal relative to Henry Sapp, former member of the present Junior class
of Davidson College:

Washington, D. C., Dec. 6—Henry Sapp of Winston-Salem, N. C., has been elected captain of the 1926 George Washington University
football team. The team, which just closed the current season, was honored at a banquet at the Lafayette Hotel given
by the alumni.

Auntie—“So your sweetheart went away yesterday? Parting is painful, isn’t it?”
Marge—“I should say it is; every rib in my body aches.”

“Y” Xmas Service Will be Different

The Y. M. C. A. plans to put on a special program at the last service before the Christmas holidays.
This service, which comes on December 20, will be entirely different from any held so far this year. The Glee
Club will have charge of the program and will arrange a musical program with appropriate Christmas songs. There will be
no outsiders on the program, only students taking part in it. The hall will be decorated in a fitting manner
to express the Christmas spirit. The entire program will be a musical one, composed of selections by the Glee Club
and songs by the student body.

Just before the holidays, the “Y” is going to send old clothes and athletic equipment to some of the mountain
schools, as has been done in the past. This has usually been done around Thanksgiving, but was put off this
year until a little later date. The clothes are usually sold by the mountain school and the proceeds used for
various needs of the school.

NEW CAR COLORS

Fifth Street experienced a new and happy sensation at the annual automobile salon held at the Hotel Commodore, New York.
Color was the keynote of the exhibits by builders of fine motor coach work. Produced by America’s foremost designers and
exhibited on the Lincoln chassis, they attracted especially keen interest because of the fact that the colorings and color combinations
of rare birds were duplicated. The enthusiasm of Fifth Avenue was reflected in the newspapers of the city. The New
York Times, commenting on the salon, said:

“A striking exhibit in respective colors is that of the Lincoln cars. The rich color combinations have been adapted from
the plumage of rare American and tropical birds.”

The New York Sun was equally enthusiastic, saying:

“The sensational feature of this salon is the brilliant color effects found in the many cars exhibited. This is particularly
so in the case of 12 Lincolns, each of which has been painted in striking and contrasting colors of a
bird selected for its beautiful plumage. The idea underlying this method of color selection is novel and the effects secured
are almost beyond description.”

RED REPLACING BABE RUTH AS IDOL OF PARIS

Paris, Dec. 9 — (AP) — Harold “Red” Grange is replacing Babe Ruth as the average Frenchman’s idea of America’s
premier athlete, owing to the extraordinary publicity given to Grange’s football fortunes and great earnings as a professional in the
Paris newspapers. Le Martin tomorrow will print on the front page a sketch of Grange’s football career, illustrated by a
large figure wearing a football headgear supposed to represent the Illinois star in the flesh. The article contains this comment:

“Red Grange is dimming Babe Ruth’s star as America’s best paid athlete. He has beaten the Bambino's record both in
the importance of fame and in the rapidityin which he achieved it.”

Lord Trampwick—"Now in my college days I belonged to the Order of the Garter.”

Sorority Sophie—"How very interesting. Which chapter, Boston, Paris, or Double-Grip?”

Avenue, the world's most critical

Twelve bodies,

Wildcat Hall of Fame

A few days ago the Gastonia High School football team won the championship of North Carolina. They did this by
defeating Greensboro 10-3 for the western title, and Sanford 8-0 in the finals. This feat is doubly interesting because of
the fact that this team was coached by “Pat” Crawford, a former Wildcat. “Pat” was one of the best athletes
Davidson has had in many years. As a Freshman, he distinguished himself by making the varsity baseball squad. From then
on he was in everything. To him is given the honor of being one of the best guards ever to
wear the Red and Black on a basketball court. As a first baseman on the baseball team, he brought honor
to Davidson by making all-state for two successive years. He went out for football, and although he never made the
varsity, he showed the true Wildcat spirit by sticking to it. In inter-class games, he took an active part, serving
as chairman of several class athletic committees. “Pat” did not content himself with merely having a part in sports; he
also was very active in other things. He was a member of the “Y” cabinet and president of the “Y”
in his Senior year. A few of his honors were: Member of the “D” Club, vice-president of the student body,
Bachelor's Club (Phi Gamma Delta), Eu Society, captain of both baseball and basketball varsities, an all-state man in both sports
and an O.D.K. man. Davidson will long remember Pat because he was a true Wildcat in every sense of the
word.

JUNIOR SPEAKING ORATORS

The preliminaries for what promises to be one of the best Junior Speaking contests held in recent years will be
held next Tuesday night in Shearer Hall, when 12 or more of the outstanding orators of the class of 1927
will contest for places in the Junior Speaking contest to be held on a prominent night during Junior Week next
spring. Within the Junior class are many of the best speakers on the campus, and their interest in the oncoming
contest with their entrance as contestants assures a large number of well-prepared and forcefully delivered speeches from which to choose.
Of the contestants in the preliminary contest, six will be chosen by the judges for the spring contest. Of those
signifying their intention of entering the contest, an interesting and varied scope of subjects have been chosen. Harllee Branch has
chosen “Danton the Martyr of the French Revolution” as his theme. Don Stewart will use as his theme “Choice of
a Leader.” Leighton McCutchen will speak on “The Opportunity of America.” Wilbur Hodgkin’s subject will be “Twentieth Century Knighthood.” Gordon
McCutchen has announced as his oration “Intellectual Egoism.” C. W. Williams will speak on “Woodrow Wilson.” Other members of the
class who have signified their intention of entering the contest but who have not announced their subjects include C. G.
Davis, R. S. Wilson, R. L. Mitchell, A. C. Slaymaker, W. C. Ogden, and W. T. Covington, while there will
probably be others to announce their entrance later in the week.

“What special studies is your daughter taking at college?”

“Cigarette inhalation, highball construction, bobbing, and facial cosmetics.”

ALL-TIME STATE TEAM

Roy Abernethy --------------------- Back
SELECTED BY BALL FAN
Carolina

Hunter Carpenter ------------------ Back
The following is an all-time all-state team
Carolina of star football players which was sent to
Buck Flowers ---------------------- Back
the Charlotte Observer the other day. Davidson
Two Davidson men are mentioned on this
Babe Wilson ----------------------- Back
team, Younger and Flowers. Make your
State
Some of these fellows are well known to
Player. College. Position.
present-day fellows, particularly Morris and
GHSGV eM ORS -------------------- End
Robinson. N.C.
Wingate McCorkle ----------------- Tackle
Davidson
FELLOWS ROMY ------------------- Tackle
N.C.
Max Gardner ---------------------- Guard
Come in any time
N.C. State
The New York Cafe
I. W. Sikes ------------------------ Guard
Charlotte, N.C.
RGtGsMUnhiVs --------------------- Center
Carolina

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE

We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.

I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
R.A. DUNN, President
C.W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
A.T. SUMMBY, Vice-President
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.

Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N.C.

We are Selling Out the Stock of Yorke & Rogers at greatly reduced prices--- which would amaze you

Suits, Overcoats, Furnishings and Shoes
SLICKERS, $4.95
FLORSHEIM SHOES, $8.85

BELK BROS. COMPANY
YORKE & ROGERS
21 W. Trade St.
