THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

THE FLAT-IRON
A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies
BY KABLE

Editor’s Note—The Davidsonian feels fortunate indeed in securing the services of a well-known feature writer on a national syndicate to
grace our columns. His effusions will be spread over a space of four weeks and will be in serial form.
The daring adventures of Dan Druff and his cohorts will be followed with interest by all readers of this paper.
For obvious reasons the real name of the author is withheld.

Dan Druff came into the “old man’s” office in his usual breezy, snappy way. Dan was a young reporter, just
out of college; he had attended one of the best barber colleges in the state. His ruddy complexion, square shoulders,
and alert eyes proclaimed him for the athlete that he was; in fact, he had played for four years on
the varsity checker team. John Dough, affectionately called “the old man” by the office force, newspaper owner, sport, and millionaire,
turned in his chair. He was knitting his eyebrows, but he put away his knitting needles and faced Dan Druff.

“Danny, my boy, I've called you in here because I know I can trust you, and you are able to
understand what I have to tell you. First, take a cigar and have a seat.”

Dan took four of the choice Imperfectos and sat down upon an upturned waste basket.

“All right, old dog, shoot.”

“Well, I'll tell you the condition that I am in. You know old Gabriel Snubbers? He's the so-called toothpick king,
and on account of his special patented device for printing current events on the sides of the toothpicks, he is
beginning to monopolize the market. As you probably know, I’ve invested rather heavily in Nickel-Plated Toothpick stock, the chief rival
of Snubbers Company. Something must be done, or I stand to lose a fair-sized fortune. I must learn the secret
process of printing on the toothpicks. Do you follow me?”

“Sounds pretty stiff, and also a little dumb to me, boss, but I'm game to make a try of it,”
replied the frank Dan Druff.

“Good! I knew you wouldn't fail me in this hysterical moment. I've ascertained the plans of Gabriel Snubbers by means
of my private mimeograph connected with every room in his house. He is leaving on his yacht tomorrow morning for
the South Seas, ostensibly to find and photograph the almost extinct watmus, a rare bird that feeds on nabiscoes in
tropical climates. But the real purpose of the trip is to secure a supply of striped ink and to experiment
with the wood of the purple limburger palms for making toothpicks. He has all his blueprints with him. You, as
a reporter, will go with the party supposedly to report on the ornithological photographs of the birds. But for the
other, keep your eyes open and use your own judgment. You will take station number six of the mimeograph along
in your vest pocket so you can communicate with me.”

“A truly excellent plan; have you made arrangements for me on the yacht?”

“Sure, all is ready for you. Old Gabriel's daughter and several other guests will be along. Perhaps the girl will
help you out; you're a sheiky sort anyway, Dan. Ha, ha, ha!”

Dough dismissed him and Dan helped himself to the rest of the Imperfectos and went out. In all his young
life, Dan Druff had never faced such an adventure or had such a supply of good cigars. First, he went
to the bank and drew out his entire savings and put the whole fifteen dollars carefully in his watch case,
and then proceeded to do the necessary shopping for his voyage. He went in a hardware store and bought a
briefcase, a pair of socks, one collar, a set of waffle irons, and thirty packs of chewing gum.

Dan slept soundly and dreamed of other shores that night and was on the dock next morning at six-thirty. The
beautiful yacht, “Flat Iron,” was gently riding the waves at medium tide. None but the janitor was aboard. About seven
o'clock the crew and guests arrived. Dan introduced himself to Snubbers and then was presented to the others. The last
in line was old Gabriel’s daughter Weona Snubbers, a girl somewhere between the ages of fifteen and thirty, with the
most beautiful face Dan had seen since the day before at the Follies.

“This trip will be more than a pleasure since you're going to be along,” Dan said, changing his cigar to
the left side.

Weona blushed slightly and dropped her eyes; Dan quickly picked them up and returned them and bowed with gallant grace.
As they were boarding the “Flat Iron” a note was slipped into Dan's hand. It was typewritten on the back
of a check: “If you value your life, abandon this trip.”

(To be continued next week).

DAVIDSON AND CAROLINA
(Continued from page 1)

They could defeat State by only nine points, whereas Carolina had defeated them seventeen. Then the men from Davidson lost
to Furman (6-0) while Carolina defeated Mercer (3-0). Last Saturday Mercer whipped Furman (17-0). All this sounds a little bad
for the Wildcats, but there is always that indomitable and undefinable fight that is in a Davidson team that never
gives up until the final whistle blows. And against Carolina, they always do their dead level best, and especially this
time since their chances for the state championship hang in the balance. Comparative scores are interesting, but to predict the
outcome of such a game as this even two minutes before the last whistle is almost folly. Many upsets have
happened in less time than that, and there is always a chance for an upset in a Wildcat-Tar Heel struggle.
The game will attract statewide attention since it is the most important game in the state on Saturday. If Carolina
wins, the championship will be a toss-up since the Tar Heels have been beaten by Wake Forest. But if Davidson
wins, it will give them a good claim to the title, and especially if the margin is over one touchdown.
A large crowd is expected, both of students and alumni as well as football fans from all over the state.
The Davidson team will leave for Chapel Hill Friday afternoon, followed by a special train of 200 or more Davidson
students and their band on Saturday.

TOM BAKER CHOSEN
(Continued from page 1)

Davidson Student government is doubtless in the hands of a strong executive, in Baker, who will justify in all points
the confidence and responsibility with which his fellow students have endowed him. Baker, it is remembered, was the runner-up to
Sappenfield in the past Spring election for this office.

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY HOUSE, SEE WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO.
LATEST COLUMBIA RECORDS
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

Davidson
Hampden-Sydney
Position
Pinkney
Turley
Laird
Worder
Vance
Nance
McConnell
Ludley (c)
Melton
Clark
Baker
Miles
Arrowood
Roberts
Hendrix
Brinser
Grey
Palmer
Leggette
Atkins
Black (c)
Edmunds

Two New Men Initiated by Honorary Fraternity
Received Into Membership of Prominent Chemical Society

As a result of special activity and progress in the chemical department, bids have been extended by Gamma Epsilon, honorary
chemical fraternity, to J.B. Thompson and S. W. Moore. These two men have shown a marked interest in chemical work
and were initiated into the fraternity Friday night as a reward for their earnest efforts and progress. Moore has shown
especial progress in mastering the problems of organic chemistry while Thompson has been equally as active in his work in
inorganic chemistry. After the initiation Friday night, refreshments were served and the event turned into a social one. Gamma Sigma
Epsilon is the only national honorary chemical fraternity for undergraduates, based on scholarship standing.of students in the chemical department. That
the honors of membership belong only to a select few is shown by the small number of members. The present
list of members of the Davidson branch are: Faculty, Dr. W. O. Martin, Dr. H. Arbuckle, and Professors O. J.
Thies and J. W. Davis. Students, J. M. Appleby, F. L. Smith, I. W. Norwood, Jennings Barnhardt, C. L. Bragaw,
U. L. Roseberry, I. C. Lawson, J. P. Hendrix, and the two new members, J. L. Thompson and S. W.
Moore.

New Name Selected by Philosophy Club

The Omega Phi Alpha fraternity, formerly the Philosophy Club, at a recent meeting made this change in name and elected
five new members: from the faculty, Professor Noble; from the Senior class, George Shaddock, S. W. Brown, O. L. Brenner;
from the Junior class, W. M. Austin. The present members of this organization are: A. T. Hollingsworth, C. E. Houston,
R. W. Graves, T. C. Barr, Roland Parker, Professor Foreman, and Dr. Sentelle. The main purpose of this fraternity is
to stimulate interest and original study in the field of psychology and philosophy. Membership to other honorary fraternities at Davidson
is gained by excelling in that particular field of study. Omega Phi Alpha men are chosen because they are not
content to view life and its problems from the common standpoint but because they scratch the surface and dig for
the pure philosophical study. Recently this fraternity accepted an invitation to become one of the charter members of the Honorary
Fraternity Council. This invitation was favorably acted upon and C. E. Houston was chosen to represent the fraternity on this
council. Omega Phi Alpha was organized for the purpose of fulfilling the needs of those students who have a vital
interest in philosophical, psychological, and related arts by offering opportunity to develop these interests in collaboration with other students who
have similar inclinations.

HAMPDEN-SIDNEY TIGERS (Continued from page 1)

In addition to leading his team well, Hendrix caught passes and ran the ball successfully. His team failed to show
the defensive strength of previous games. Grey outpunted Brinser and returned punts for good gains. Brinser looked good as a
general. Score by quarters: Davidson—6, 0 0 0—6. Hampden-Sidney—0 0 6 0—6. Summary: Scoring—Touchdowns, Leggette, Atkins. Officials—Hartsell (N. C. State),
Referee; Major (Clemson), Umpire; Harrell (UNC), headlinesman. Attendance 2,200.

Literary Societies

Metrophilian

The Metrophilian Literary Society held its regular meeting last Thursday evening at nine o'clock. The meeting was presided over by
the newly elected president, E. P. Pullen. The devotional exercises were led by K. I. D. Lyerly. After the opening
exercises, Don Stewart gave an interesting talk on his travels this summer. He offered some very good advice to would-be
travelers and made a very enjoyable talk. T. E. Hamilton gave current events. Herman Campbell gave a very good oration
on “Action,” which was one of the best given in the society this year. Since several of the speakers on
the regular program were absent, the president decided to have an extemporaneous debate and appointed Boyce Martin on the affirmative
and H. E. Powell on the negative. The question for debate was “Resolved, that the present system of throwing water
out of the dormitory windows should be abolished." The judges decided in favor of the affirmative.

Pandemic

The Pandemic Literary Society met last Thursday with an interesting program. S. W. Moore and T. E. Will defended the
affirmative side of the debate; the negative side was defended by M. McCarty. The program was concluded with Current Events
given by M. McCarty. The Pandemic is planning for Fresh-Soph and Junior-Senior debating teams to compete in the contests, to
occur within the next few weeks.

Eumenean

The regular meeting of the Eumenean Literary Society was held as usual last Thursday evening at 7 o'clock, with Tom
Barr, President, presiding. The opening prayer was offered by Mr. Chas. A. Beasaw. There followed an oration, “Davidson Spirit,” delivered
by Mr. W. T. Lynch. Mr. Lynch handled his subject in a very comprehensive and interesting manner, his speech being
enjoyed by all. The query for the debate of the evening was Resolved: That the Senate Laws Should be changed
in accordance with Dawes’ proposal. Those upholding the affirmative side of the issue were Murchison and Hollingsworth, the negative side
was defended by Christian and Norwood. The decision was in favor of the negative. However, in the general discussion, the
house was in favor of the affirmative. The question of the revision of the constitution was then taken up, but
no definitive report could be rendered at the time.

Philanthropic

The last meeting of the Philanthropic Literary Society was held on Thursday, November 8th. The query for debate was Resolved:
That Senate rules should be changed in accordance with the Dawes proposal. P. A. Ratchford and B. S. Abernathy upheld
the affirmative, while B. G. Ferguson and J. P. McBryde took the negative. The decision was in favor of the
negative.

ATTENTION—COGNOMEN CONTRIBUTORS

The Davidsonian, with this issue, announces a colossal contest open to the public in general and to the student body
in particular. Namely, to give a suitable cognomen to the Davidson mascot, Mr. Wildcat, who has been nameless, lo, these
many months. Insert your selection in the space below and have it in the hands of the editor of The
Davidsonian before next Monday noon. The winner will be announced in the next issue of The Davidsonian and the lucky
one will be given a year’s subscription to The Davidsonian. The committee of judges will be Mr. Wildcat, chairman, the
editor of The Davidsonian, the president of the Athletic Association, and one member of the Faculty.

I hereby submit the following name for the Wildcat: ___________________________

Junior-Seniors to Engage in Debate

The Juniors and Seniors of the four debating societies on the hill will engage in their annual Junior-Senior debating meet
at an early date. Most of the societies will hold their preliminaries this week to determine who its three representatives
shall be. The subject that has been chosen by the Forensic Council is: “Resolved, that the United States should enter
the World Court.” This is a topic of vital interest to students and has been discussed in the student discussion
groups. The Senate will vote on the United States entrance into the World Court on December 12th. The decision of
the Senate will decide whether or not the United States will cast her lot with other leading nations in the
Court of Permanent Justice, as has been advocated by Woodrow Wilson, or continue her present policy of aloofness. On November
24th the semi-finals will be held. The Pandemic Society will uphold the affirmative against the Metrophilian, while the Philanthropic Society
will take the affirmative against the Eumenean. The finals, which will be held between the two winners, are scheduled for
December 3rd. The Forensic Council has announced that no intercollegiate debaters will be allowed to debate in the Junior-Senior contest.

There was also a declamation, rendered by H. A. Knox. At this meeting, officers for the following term were elected.
They were as follows: President, Barrington, J. C.; Vice-President, Hodgin, W. L.; Secretary, Dixon, B. W.; First Critic, Williford, A.
B.; Second Critic, Davis, C. G.; First Supervisor, Cathoan, R. G.; and Second Supervisor, Phillips, F. A.

Davidson does not meet the team that lost to Wake Forest, however. It clashes with the team that has won
successively from Duke, South Carolina, N. C. State, Mercer, Maryland, and V. M. I. We are battling the team that
is tied with Alabama for Southern Conference honors. It will be a battle of brains, a battle of speed, and
a battle of sportsmen. But so did Wake Forest.
