THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

ARTCRAFT THEATRE
Mooresville, N. C.

Tuesday, Nov. 24
Smouldering Fires
A Universal Jewel

Thursday, Nov. 26
The Dancers
A Special Fox Feature

Other four days
Westerns
Comedies daily

C. I. Gresham, Owner

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

English Overcoats
Warm, easy hanging English Coats of Scotch, Irish, Harris Tweeds and English Woolens of Sterling character. Coats typical of a standard of tailoring distinctly foreign---an air of smartness procured in no other way. Patterns and fabrics that have all been individually selected.

Tate-Brown Co.
KEERANS & KING, Agents

Clemson Cubs Walk Away With Wildkitten Eleven
Little Clemson Tigers Show Extra Strength in Final Period and Overcome Wildkitten Lead

The Davidson Wildkittens ended their season last Saturday when the little Clemson College Tigers returned to the fray in the second half with renewed strength, and swept the little Davidson team down the field several times to make a final count of 25 to 7, in favor of the Clemson fresh. The Wildkittens had led in the first half, 7 to 6, but all the fight that they put forth in those last two periods could not stay the drive of the heavy Clemson team. But the score should not have been so great. The first touchdown Clemson came when Davidson fumbled on her own five-yard line, Clemson recovering and scoring on the second play run. Another of their touchdowns was made when a punt hit Kell, Clemson recovering on Davidson's four-yard line, the Wildkittens fighting to hold them, but being scored on on the third down.

Not for one minute were the Wildkittens asleep, and all the way during the game they were giving their best. The Clemson team was the bigger, and their smashing plays over the line shoved the scrapping Wildkittens aside, and they marched down the field for a total of 18 first downs, compared with six for the Wildkittens. Clemson won the game, it is true, but the most sensational and thrilling play of the contest was when Kell received a pass from Wenberg on Clemson's 30-yard line and stepped off the remaining yardage between the goal post in a beautiful dash for a touchdown. The pass was for 17 yards, the ball being put on play on Clemson's 47-yard line.

After Clemson had received the first break of the game and had scored her first touchdown in the initial period, the Wildkittens showed their mettle by holding the Clemson fresh for downs in their sacred zone, the ball going over to Davidson on her own five-yard line. At this stage the Davidson team opened an air attack that dazzled Clemson and carried the ball to Clemson's 25-yard line, where it changed hands on downs. A pass, Wenberg to McConnell, was completed for 22 yards, soon followed by another from Wenberg to Myers for 32 yards. Clemson kicked, and then Davidson opened for the third pass to Kell for a touchdown for 47 yards.

Two of Clemson's touchdowns came as the result of drives down the field, the little Tigers using a delayed buck over the line with which they gained at will. They were on the offense most of the game.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

The last game of the season is being played this afternoon, and when it is over the curtain will have fallen before one of the best football seasons in the history of Davidson College. It has been a great season so far this year, and the Wildcats have fought valiantly in every game they have participated in. The college is becoming known by the kind of teams it puts into the field. And just in that connection we are not thinking so much of the winning team that Davidson has had, but the type of students who have been members of the squad—fine, clean-cut fellows, every one of them, high in the estimation of the Davidson students, and recognized by outsiders as men of true worth.

We are a firm believer in the fact that a good team will draw students to an institution. We do not mean athletes; we mean good students. Few boys are inclined to go to an institution that does not put good teams before the public, and the biggest way Davidson has been before the public has been through its football team of the last two seasons.

An experiment that might prove interesting would be for Davidson to fail to have a football team in the field one year.

Cage Team to Be Formed Around Three Lettermen
Coach Monk Will Join Squad at End of Football Season

On Tuesday afternoon, November 17, varsity basketball practice was called for the first time. Fifteen men were chosen by Coach Monk to take part in this early practice. All of these men have had experience in former years or were stars on their class teams this fall. Only one letterman was present at the first practice, Tom Anderson, the lanky center and high point man for the past season. But there are two other basketball lettermen in school, Hewlette and Laird, both of whom are with the football squad and will not be on the floor for a couple of weeks yet. Staley, Boggs, Beall, and McConnell were four lettermen who graduated from Davidson last spring and so Coach Monk faces the difficult problem of building up a basketball team with three lettermen back.

Temporarily “Dutch” Hengeveld, himself a great basketball player for DavidsonAt one time and coach of the team for several seasons, is acting as coach until the football season. He will have the task of training the men. He realizes that too much practice would cause the squad to become stale before the season is over. Besides Anderson, other men called for practice were Cooke, Huie, Oden, Goodykoontz, Keerans, Calhoun, Simpson, Whaton, Kugler, Wilson, McAuley, Lake, and Weld. It would be a good news story, at least, to see if the number of applications increased or decreased with the abolition of a football team. In speaking of the type of students that represent Davidson on the athletic field, it occurred to us that profanity is not prevalent on the gridiron, in the practices, or in the games. If it is used, it is repressed so that the public does not hear it. But we have witnessed games this year and have heard oaths uttered after every play. But the Davidson boys as a whole have had more respect for themselves, for the school they represent, and for their opponents than to make a continuous habit of using such terms in the games. We are proud of the team and proud of the men that composed that team—for they are men in every sense of the word.

The freshmen had a rather unsuccessful season this year, but it must be remembered that they had a hard schedule, and with one exception, they were up against far heavier opponents. They fought hard and gave everything they had. To some people, the outlook for next year is rather pessimistic, for there are in their minds few outstanding men on the freshmen team. It must be remembered, however, that they have time to develop, and to those who generally look on the bright side of life, there is hope that in the spring football practice new stars will be discovered. Manager Garrison has been working steadily on the schedule, and it is rounding into shape. A trip will be taken into Virginia and also into South Carolina, where games will be played. The complete schedule will be announced at an early date.

The Wildcats, Myers, Kell, and Black were outstanding, with the whole team scrapping. Kell was good on defense and offense, Black's work being featured on the defense. Pearman and Davis were the backfield shining lights for Clemson, the former making three of the touchdowns for Clemson. Moorer, Hall, and Wall were outstanding linemen.

Line-up and summary:
Clemson. Position. Davidson.
McConnell LE Di
Moore LT LeFevre
Wall (c) LG Holmgreen
Gibson Center Kerr
Marshall RG Smith
Hall RT Ritchie
Hoke RE Myers
McMillan QB Wenberg
Davis LH Kell
Pearman RH James
Imes FB Black (c)

Score by Quarters:
Clemson Fresh 6 0 6 13—25
Davidson Fresh 0 7 0 0—7

Scoring: Touchdowns for Clemson, Pearman (2), Davis. For Davidson, Kell. Points after touchdown: For Clemson, McMillan. For Davidson, Wenberg. Officials: Referee: Major (Clemson); Umpire, Robinson (Clemson); Head linesman, Holtzendorff (Georgia). Substitutions for Davidson: Covington, Flinn, Crawford, Leftwich, McDonald, Watkins, King.

A little boy, sitting next to the guest at dinner, noticed that the meat for the meal was roast beef. He turned to his father and said, “Pa, I thought you said you were to bring an old ham to dinner tonight.”

The mayor said last week that if the tramps down at the city jail do not quit kicking about the grub, he's going to throw them all out.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

Columbia Theological Seminary
1. The enrollment in the Junior Class equals the combined enrollment of the Middle and Senior Classes.
2. The second term begins February 9, 1926.
3. The Seminary has for ninety-seven years maintained the highest standard of entrance requirements and excellence in scholarship.
4. To receive our degrees, a student must present a bachelor’s degree from a reputable college.
5. A special English course, with no degree offered, is provided for worthy students who come with the approval of Presbytery but who present no college degree.
A catalogue, bulletins, and other information furnished on request.
RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH
3 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

18 East Trade St.
We Sell Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods
MYERS HARDWARE & SPORTING GOODS COMPANY
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

In College
ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.
Display Room every Friday 7:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE