“> THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 16, 1925

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

Wrigley’s increases the flow of saliva and relieves that “stuffed” feeling. Clears the throat, steadies nerves and sweetens the breath. Cleans teeth too.
“Costs little-helps much”
WRIGLEY'S

When in Charlotte take your meals at the SG&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

Appraised Value
Caddie—I'm afraid I can’t caddy for you today, sir.
Milhous—Why not?
Caddie—I’ve sold you for four cents to Sambo.

Fresh Lake—How did Bud make out in his mid-years?
Fresh Morris—He was caught cheating.
Lake—How come?
Morris—In physiology, the question was asked, “How many vertebrae are there?” and he was caught rubbing his back.

Jethro—There’s a lot of vice versa in this here publication.
Sambo—What do you mean, vice versa?
Jethro—What, you mean to tell me you don’t know vice versa is a high hat for bum poetry!

Pullen—I'm ‘shamed—positively ‘shamed o’ stark sober again.

Our regular absent-minded professor recently put the cat to bed and kicked himself downstairs.

Somnus Regained
Frosh—If I go to the matinee I'll have to cut two classes.
Soph—That’s all right. You can make up the sleep any time.

My bonny was fond of jazz dancing,
Had a partner—weight five hundred three
The floor was too slick and too slippery—
O bring back my bonny to me!

Darwin, Jr.
Prof.—All men are descended from monkeys. Am I right, Mr. Blank?
Bored Student—Yeah, I guess so, but who kicked the ladder out from under you?

“Why did you break your engagement with Claytor?”
“His frat pin was so big it tore holes in all my dresses.”

Impossible
“Darling,” she said, “will you love me when I grow old and ugly?”
“Dearest,” he replied tenderly, “you may grow older, but you will never grow uglier.”

“Some day I'll be rich,” said the dog as he picked up the scent.

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

“Do you mind if I kiss you?”
“Not if you do it without waking the whole house up.”

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.
Phonograph Records 50c each

“Jeeves,” he gurgled, “what was the cause of Fats Laws’ downfall?”
“Oh, he went riding in his sweetie’s twin-six, and when it stalled, he looked under the front seat for the gas tank.”

Refined
Sam—Judge, I wasn’t doing nothing but looking at this lady when she walked up the steps. Then all of a sudden she soaks me on the peninsula.
Judge—What do you mean, peninsula?
Sam—Well, Judge, a long narrow neck, just a stretchin’ out to see.

Deck—That auto looks pretty well worn out.
Thompson—It ought to. It’s the sole survivor of four love affairs.

Stude—I wish I had been boarding here two weeks ago.
Boarding House Mistress—Why, you flatter my establishment!
Stude—Don’t think it! I just thought that maybe this bread would have been in its infancy then.

Muddy Joke
“Who’s icky honey bunch is you?” she softly cooed,
As he let go his hold of the steering wheel to grasp the opportunity properly. The car lunged into the ditch. Crawling out and digging the mud from his face, he said, “Yours!”

Frosh—I see that Davidson men have taken to wearing moustaches now.
Senior—Yes, anything to save one’s face, y’know.

The professor, asking students to write on their conception of heaven, was surprised to receive a blank paper from Young.
“What is the meaning of this?” asked the professor.
“You said to write on your conception of heaven and here you have done nothing.”
“Doing nothing, sir,” said Young, “is my conception of heaven.”

Too True!
Contrib—What's the matter with those jokes I sent you?
Ed—Well, some of them I've seen before. The rest I haven’t seen yet.

North B—Our shower hasn’t been working for three months.
South B—When did you find that out?
N. B.—This morning.

“Going to bed?”
“Naw, I’m undressing to see how I look in my B. V. D's.”

RedFraley (joyously)—Boys, I got a letter from my woman today.
Fresh (contemptuously)—You did? Where's she cooking now?

Reduction
There was a young fellow named Smith,
A lovely young man to be with.
He laundered his tux
With Dutch Cleanser and Lux,
And reduced it to less than a myth.

I didn’t take astronomy.”
“But why so glum about that?”
“Gee, and here it’s gone and rained for a month now.”

She—What's your idea of a smart girl?
He—One who can make her complexion taste as good as it looks.

Most of us spend our lives wearing out our clothes.

Quite Ripping
Bowie—What a surprise to see you in a full-dress suit! Did you rent it?
Parker—No; but every time I stooped over I thought I would.

First Niggah—You is so thin you could close one eye and pass as a needle.
Second Niggah—You ain’t thin, is you? You is so thin your ma could feed you for grapejuice and use you fo’ a thermometer.

TAR HEELS TAKE EASTER
(Continued from page 1)
The beautiful hand catch in the eighth that brought the crowd to its feet in applause. The Carolina batters seemed ready for Laird’s right-hand stuff and in all got eleven hits off of him. Coffee was the batting star of the day with a triple, a couple of singles, and a walk. Stanton was also hitting with a double and a home run to his credit. “Lefty” Hampton, pitching the last two innings, was not scratched. Holshouser, Carolina’s only pitcher, pitched four innings, striking out six men, gave seven hits, and struck out only two. Coltrane finished up the game, allowing two singles.

The box score:
Carolina AB R H PO A E
Bonner, 2b 5 1 2 2 2 0
Sharpe, c 5 0 1 4 0 0
Hatley, 1b 4 0 0 10 0 0
Stanton, 3b 5 2 2 2 0 0
Gibson, rf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Coffee, cf 4 1 3 1 0 0
Johnson, ss 4 1 2 2 2 0
Holshouser, p 2 0 0 0 0 0
Coltrane, p 2 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 37 5 10 27 4 0

Davidson AB R H PO A E
Glenn, ss 4 0 0 2 2 0
Hampton, p 4 0 0 0 0 0
Black, c 4 0 0 10 0 0
Covington, 3b 4 0 1 1 2 0
Woodham, 1b 4 0 1 10 0 0
Milford, cf, ss 4 0 0 1 0 0
Wright, lf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Simpson, 2b 4 0 0 2 2 0
Laird, p, cf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 36 0 2 27 6 0

Score by innings:
Carolina 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 0—5
Davidson 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0—0

Summary: Two base hits, Bonner, Hatley, Stanton, Sharpe; three base hits, Johnson, Coffee; home runs, Stanton; double plays, Covington to Woodham to Covington; bases on balls, off Holshouser 2 in 4 innings, off Coltrane 1 in 5 innings, off Laird 5 in 7 innings, off Hampton 1 in 6 innings; struck out by Holshouser 6 in 4 innings, by Coltrane 2 in 5 innings, by Laird 7 in 7 innings, by Hampton 2 in 2 innings; hits off Holshouser 2, off Coltrane 5, off Laird 11, off Hampton 2; stolen bases, Bonner, Gibson (2); left on bases, Carolina 6, Davidson 7; earned runs, off Holshouser 0, off Coltrane 2, off Laird 7; time of game, 2 hours; attendance, 4,500; umpires Brandon, O'Rourke.

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

STUDENT'S STORE
BASEBALL SUPPLIES
BATS, BALLS, GLOVES
EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS
CLOTHING, SOAP, EATS, DRINKS, PENNANTS
R. O. SELLARS

Victrolas — Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Furniture, Rugs, Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.