THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1925

Spirited Discussion of Church Problem by Students on Wednesday

Professors Fleagle and Foreman Are Leaders of Wednesday Night Discussion Group—Enthusiastic Meeting

“Modern Thought and Davidson Traditions” was the subject for discussion at the first of a series of campus problems discussion groups held Wednesday evening, October 7, at 9:00 o'clock. Under this topic, the main sub-topic was the question of compulsory church attendance, which is of vital interest to the students at this time. A very spirited discussion took place in which both sides were defended; the majority of opinion was, however, against compulsion. At 10 o'clock, the time of closing, the students were enthusiastically trying to reach some conclusion and were anxious to continue.

The topic discussed last Wednesday was, “On What Does a True College's Success Consist?” The question dwelt on most was, Is popularity worth seeking? In order to provide for the students who want to join in on these discussions, two groups have been formed, Professors Fleagle and Foreman each to have charge of one group. All the students whose names begin with the letters from A to K met with Professor Foreman in his classroom in Shearer the first night, and the rest of the students with Professor Fleagle in the chapel. The next night this was reversed. By this plan, the students will be able to get the different viewpoints of the two leaders.

The week before the groups started, 30 representative men of the student body were assembled to choose six topics which they considered the most vital and important, from the viewpoint of the students, to be discussed one each week of the six weeks the discussions are to be held. After careful consideration, six were chosen and one will be announced a few days before each group meeting. R. B. Parker, who has charge of the Bible study of the Y. M. C. A. for this year, has adopted this plan. In the two previous years, the groups have been held on each floor of the dormitories with a student leader. The plan of having only two large groups with a faculty member as leader adds the advantage of a greater exchange of ideas. Professors Fleagle and Foreman are two of the most popular men on the faculty and have won the confidence of the students. They have an unusual ability of seeing things from the students’ viewpoint as well as from their own. These qualifications make them well suited for the position of leaders of these groups. The discussions are carried on in the most informal manner possible with the leader introducing the subject.

Practice on Mats Will Begin Early

Heretofore Davidson has waited until after Christmas to start wrestling practice, but this year Captain Weems, the wrestling coach, hopes to start as soon after Thanksgiving as possible. By beginning this early, it is hoped that the team will be better than in former years. Plans are now under way to put down the wrestling mats. They will occupy the same room as last year. There will be two large mats as before. The team this year will probably meet, among others, the Concord Y. M. C. A., Carolina, North Carolina State, Duke University, the University of Virginia, and the U. S. Naval Academy Plebes. However, the schedule has not yet been definitely arranged. The nucleus for the team this year is smaller than in former years. Among the old men who are back are Frierson, Cox, Barrington, and Vance. It is hoped that many from the Freshman class will try out for the team this year. There will be about four positions to be filled.

Fraternity Guests

The following young ladies were fraternity guests last weekend:

Pyramid Club: Misses Louise Harry, Queens; Charlotte Guy, Charlotte; Althea Backinstow, Philadelphia, Penn.; Pete Reid, Anita Wharton, Queens; Dolly Moore, Queens; Louise Watson, New Orleans, La.; Edith Dudley, Charlotte.

Delta Theta Chi: Misses Clara Davis, Charlotte; Elizabeth Wilson, Greensboro, N. C.; Helen Delaney, Charlotte; Nancy Little, Greensboro.

Pi Kappa Phi: Misses Mabel Rankin, Gastonia; Virginia Hardee, Norfolk, Va.; Nancy Donnelly, Charlotte; Isabel Pharr, Charlotte; Elizabeth Fowler, Charlotte; Katherine Wooten, Charlotte; Dorothy Aiken, Charlotte; Craigie Pegram, Charlotte; Charlotte Crewes, Greenville, S. C.; Jule Fowler, Statesville; Elsie Fountaine, Tarboro, N. C.; Virginia Armstrong, Gastonia; Elizabeth Lewis, Tarboro, N. C.

Theta Upsilon Omega: Misses Carolyn Booth, Queens; Elizabeth Moretz, Hickory; Annie Barton McFall, Queens; Frances Steele, Queens; Mabel Huston McFall, Queens; Bradley Thompson, Bluefield, W. Va.; Catherine Fraser, Charlotte; Addie Glasgow, Charlotte; Judy Wilkes, Charlotte; Alice Cilley, Hickory; Louise Garibaldi, Charlotte; Mary Stuart Menzies, Hickory; Evelyn Martin, Queens; Katherine Brown, Queens.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Misses Nell Marsh, Charlotte; Rachel Witherington, Greensboro; Frances Moore, Rock Hill; Mildred James, Charlotte.

The fighting Davidson team before them when James’ punt was blocked in the fourth quarter. A brilliant march down the field from the 35-yard line brought the second Panther touchdown. Although James figured prominently in the plays that preceded each of the Panther drives for touchdowns, he figured more prominently when his long, spiraling punts brought the Davidson team out of danger. Often his opposing punter would take the wind to his advantage for an unusually long kick, but James with or against the brisk breeze was good for 40 and 45 yards time after time. He was easily the star of the Davidson team, just as Panqua was of his eleven. Riggs McConnell on the end of the Davidson line played a consistently good game as defensive end, while Monk did well till he went out with an injured rib. Wenburg showed promise of genius as a quarter once when he gained 70 yards by punting on the second down even though against the then brisk wind. On the line, Vance showed good work, but though fighting valiantly at times, the Wildkittens could not stand the pace set by the heavier Panther forwards.

Line-up and summary:
Davidson (0) High Point (14)
Position
Monk
Wenburg
Peterson
Gleason
Hedick
Pankau

Substitutions—Davidson: Myers for Kell; Kink for Myers; McClurefor Mank; Leitwick for Vance; Homegreen for Smith. High Point: Heath for Hedrick; Rogers for Heath; Johnson for Peterson; Ferree for Fuqua; Hauser for Dallas; Hamlet for Warford; Wright for Hamlet; Finch for Rogers; Peterson for Johnson; Foust for Finch; Hedrick for Foust; Heath for Hedrick; Wright for Diamarco; Ridge for Fuqua; Hill for Johnson; Dimarco for Finch; Hauser for Dallas. Umpire: McIntosh (Massachusetts Aggie); headlinesman: Caldwell (Davidson); timekeeper: Marlette (Elon).

Sold in 102 Countries!
Walk-Over
“The largest-selling trade-marked style shoes in the world”

BIDS EXTENDED TO THREE
(Continued from page 1)
a member of the Eumenean Literary Society and an inter-collegiate debater. He was a member of the team in the Wake Forest debate last year. Harllee has also been a very valuable man on the Davidsonian. He is now managing editor of that publication. These men have been signally honored because of the fact that Alpha Phi Epsilon had so much good material to pick from and also because this is the only fraternity of its kind on the hill. The purpose of this organization is to honor leaders in forensic endeavor.

For dress, campus, golf and formal wear
$7, $7.50, $8, $8.50
Sole Agents
SULLIVAN BROS., 204 West
Samples showing today---and every day!
Factory service
Glee Clubbers, may we furnish your shoes? Drop in, look them over

Bess Kennedy, Oxford, N.C.; Morrison, Greensboro; Mary Mills Ham, Charlotte; Nina Shaddock, Converse; Alice Barbee, High Point; Lib Hayden, High Point; Bertie Fowler, Lexington; Katherine Menzies, Hickory; Charlotte Milstead, Charlotte; Josephine Thompson, Greensboro; Adelaide Harris, Concord; Ruth Cannon, Concord.

ORPHANAGE HEAD SPEAKER
(Continued from page 1)
to try themselves, so they remain on the sideline achieving nothing. “The fact that in all the world no two thumb prints are alike, argues that no two persons are alike; and from the fact that no two persons are alike, we may reason that every man is endowed to do some particular work better than another can do it.” “The pretty side of life lies in the finding of one’s work and in the positive doing of it.” “The unpleasant side of life lies in refusing to take the opportunities that one has.” “Suppose Paul had never gone into Macedonia.” “Europe would no doubt have never had its Christian religion for years to come.” “Be eager to take advantage of your opportunities,” counselled the speaker. “Nature and God don’t have to hurry.” Mr. Johnston urged his hearers to start preparing for their professions now. “For,” said he, “preparation determines success in a crisis.” “Get yourself a job and see how much over and above the amount required you can put into it.” It is those who do this who really achieve success.” “Generally speaking,” Mr. Johnston declared, “there is nothing to all this talk about a man’s reaching the top through pull. Men are at the top because they worked for it and deserve to be there.” “Fall in love with your work, cultivate the divine magic of enthusiasm, and whatever you do, do it whole-heartedly. “Give yourself to the job,” was the speaker’s closing counsel.

Kappa Alpha: Misses Alice Gibbons, Charlotte; Lucy Heath, Charlotte; Jean Craig, Queens; Winifred Pegram, Charlotte; Ruth Hardin, Charlotte; Frances Coleman, Winston.

Phi Gamma Delta: Misses Elizabeth Newell, Greensboro; Wilmer Cook, Wilmington; Margaret Caldwell, Wilmington; Virginia Reed, Concord; Jennie Brown, Concord; Margaret Smith, Charlotte; Elsie Brown, Charlotte; Nannie Craver, Charlotte; Alice Dunklee, Winston-Salem; Mary Leake Neave, Salisbury; Jean Martin, Davidson; Margaret Witherspoon, Salisbury; Faith Dudley, Charlotte; Mary Speir, Charlotte; Zoro Foy, Reidsville; Elizabeth Clarke, Charlotte.

The General Electric Company has developed generating and transmitting equipment step by step with the demand for electric power. Already electricity is being carried 220,000 miles. And G-E engineers, ever looking forward, are now experimenting with voltages exceeding a million.

High Point scored in the first quarter when Hedrick had punted the ball out on the Wildkittens’ four-yard line. James, plucky Davidson back, went back of his goal line to punt, sending the ball out on his own 30-yard line as a heavy wind swept straight into his face. Then the Panthers came to life and the Davidson defense crumbled before Panqua’s fast plunges, the quarter gun firing with the ball within one yard of the last line. Panqua went over on the first play of the next period. Once again the High Point eleven swept with some neat gains via the air. His efforts came too late, for by that time High Point was leading 14-0.

WILDKITTENS DEFEATED
A new series of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for booklet GEK-1.

A Self-Starting Power Plant
Dawn—the slumbering city awakens and calls for electric current. Many miles away the call is answered. A penstock opens automatically, releasing impounded waters; a water turbine goes to work, driving a generator; and electric current is soon flowing through wires over the many miles to the city. This plant starts and runs itself. Power plants with automatic control are now installed on isolated mountain streams. Starting and stopping, generating to a set capacity, shutting down for hot bearings and windings, gauging available water supply, they run themselves with uncanny precision. Thus another milestone has been reached in the generation of electric power. And with present-day achievements in power transmission, electricity generated anywhere may be applied everywhere. The non-technical graduate need not know where electricity comes from—nor even how it works. But he should know what electricity can do for him no matter what vocation he selects.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK