Welcome Techmen, Alumni, Fair Visitors

HOMECOMING NUMBER

Complete Program of Game on Page Ten

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., No. 7

FIGHTING ELEVEN BOWS TO PURPLE HURRICANE ON RAIN-SOAKED FIELD

Furman Wins 7-0 as Captain Tilghman Crosses Goal Line on Forward Pass in Last Period.

Wonderful Defense by Davidson Forwards

Outplayed, but not outfought; defeated, but not disgraced, the Davidson Wildcats came back to their lair late last Saturday night intact and in good spirits, despite the victory of the Purple Hurricane of Furman University that afternoon, 7 to 0, on Wearn Field, in Charlotte.

Five thousand people or more saw the Baptists from Greenville, S. C., and the Presbyterians of Davidson, battle for over three-quarters and a half without either team scoring, only to see the tie broken when half of the fourth period had passed. They had watched the Wildcats fight determinedly and doggedly against tremendous odds. They had been watching the Davidson team scratch and claw, slip and slide on the soggy field. They had watched the Hurricane advance toward the Davidson goal on several occasions, only to see the Wildcats hold, fighting fiercely to keep the score to a 0 to 0 tie. They had admired the Wildcats for their plucky valor, for the impenetrable line they were presenting to the heavy Furman forwards and to the driving backs. Their admiration still remains, but Davidson was defeated.

The lone touchdown came after Rawl, star of the afternoon, had sent the pigskin hurling through the air for the longest kick of the afternoon, the oval going over Dick Grey’s head. When downed, Grey was on the six-yard line and the ball had come from Furman’s 25-yard line. Grey kicked. Groans were heard as the ball went low. It was returned to Davidson's 20-yard line. Laney and Rawl together gained eight yards. Tilghman, end for Furman, who had been calling signals for the (Continued on page 5)

Annual ‘Y’ Meeting Conducted by Dr. C. F. Meyers of Greensboro

Mixed Quartette Adds Interest to Services With its Splendid Musical Program

“Who is your master?” was the theme of the first of the series of talks to be delivered by Dr. Myers to the Y. M. C. A. in the fall evangelistic services. Dr. Myers spoke to a full house of students, members of the faculty and town people on Monday night. His text was taken from Job 2:12, “Man is born like the wild ass’s colt.” In opening the subject Dr. Myers said that man was born like the colt of the wild ass in that he had no master, but carrying the analogy on, man does become mastered by the crowd, or by himself or by the only true master, Jesus Christ. The incident of Jesus sending for the ass in Jerusalem tied just outside of a door at the parting of the way was cited as a fitting comparison. For men are tied down by sin just outside the door that will open to freedom with Christ—so near and yet so far—and they are at the parting of the ways to choose their own destiny, to go the right or the wrong way. Finally, Jesus riding the ass into Jerusalem in His triumphal entry is symbolical of full fruition to be had by the one who submits to and serves the True Master. (Continued on page 5)

TOM BAKER

Davidson Right Tackle

Selected by all the leading papers for a place on the all-state eleven last fall. He is continuing great work this season.

College Day. Glee Club to Present Many Entertainers at Stunt Night Saturday

Four Classes and Dramatic Club Also Join in Giving Varied Array of Talent

Stunt Night with all its music, comedy and fun will begin at 8:00 o'clock Saturday evening in Shearer Hall as a fitting climax to Homecoming Day and Davidson College Day. The Glee Club, which is sponsoring Stunt Night, will furnish a chorus, quartet, soloist, jazz, and symphony and a Mandolin and Guitar Club as part of the program, while the four classes with the Dramatic Club will furnish the remaining part, each putting on a stunt.

The Glee Club chorus of sixteen men will sing two songs, “Keep on Hoping” and “John Peel.” The quartet, Malcolm Lockhart, D. G. Wilson, R. S. Richardson, and D. M. Calhoun, will render three or four numbers. This quartet is well-known on the hill having sung several times at the “Y” vespers and at the local church services. The recently formed Mandolin and Guitar Club composed of three upper-classmen, Proctor Thompson, Tom Jones, and R. C. Womack, and three Freshmen, Herbert Worzel, C. J. Albright, and Cain, has been practicing frequently and should add much to the program. Lockhart will sing several solos accompanied by Thompson with his guitar. Lockhart made the Glee Club his Freshman year and sang on the K. K. K. Quartet during the entire season. He has one of the best tenor voices in college. The well-known jazz and symphony orchestras led by Count Davis and (Continued on page 5)

HARRY VANCE

Davidson, Left Guard

Vance was the other Davidson lineman to receive great attention by mythical eleven pickers. He is better this year than last.

Davidson College and Entire Student Body To Make Homecoming Day Greatest in History

Addition of Davidson College Day and Granting of Holiday Add a Variety of Features to Make Day One of Biggest Yet. Review in Morning and Football in Afternoon. Stunt Night in Shearer Hall

Students Vote to Alter Constitution

Last Saturday morning the amendment of the constitution brought before the student body about ten days ago, was voted upon and passed. The amendment pertains to article six, section five, of the constitution, as drawn up in 1914, and rewritten and revised in 1918. At the time of the revision, the clause that is being added was inadvertently omitted in the copying, and hence this amendment was necessary. The amendment merely sets a specified vote at which the action of the student body may override the action of its student council. The vote on the amendment was practically unanimous, with only four votes from the entire student body being cast against it.The amendment as voted upon reads as follows: “A two-thirds vote of the student body shall be necessary to override the action which the student council has taken. The whole of article six, section five, will now read: “Sec. 5—Should the accuser or the accused feel that he has not derived justice at the hands of the Student Council, he may carry his case before the Student Body. He must first notify the President of the Student Body (Continued on page 6).

For the first time, Davidson College Day and Homecoming Day will be consolidated and held on the same day, Saturday, Oct. 31st. These two occasions during the college year are usually held on separate days. The Davidson College Day has formerly been held on Armistice Day and Homecoming Day on the day of the biggest football game of the year. But at a meeting of the student body last week, it was voted to have the two days combined and held on the thirty-first. The change of holidays necessitated its presentation to the student body.

The headline attraction for the day will be the big football game between Davidson and N. C. State. This game will be closely contested since it will have a bearing on the state championship. And since it is one of the largest games in the state on that day, there will be as many as five thousand people present at Richardson Field when the whistle blows. Present predictions forecast that the crowd will eclipse that of the Carolina game played here last year. Since it is also Homecoming Day, many of the alumni and their families will be present for the game. On Saturday morning, the Military department will give an exhibition for the visitors. The first exercises will be in the form of a calisthenic drill by the entire battalion. This will (Continued on page 5).

Opening Funds are Raised for Page Memorial

Plans are now going forward for the establishment at Johns Hopkins University of a college of International Relations—a school in which special study and research will be conducted toward finding some plan or policy that will promote world peace. An extensive canvass is being made for the provision of a million-dollar endowment which will be used for the purpose of founding this college at Johns Hopkins.

In chapel Saturday morning, Dr. J. M. McConnell made an appeal to the student body, setting forth the many and great advantages which would result from such a course of study—advantages not confined to the United States alone but having influence throughout the world. He urged that Davidson do her part in contributing to a cause which would have possibilities of exerting such a universal influence for good in the world. The state of North Carolina is asked to give $25,000 toward the fund. The students and faculty propose to make Davidson College’s part a hundred to two hundred dollars. With this end in view, a canvassing committee has been appointed from members of the International Rela- (Continued on page 6).

WOLFPACK TO TEST REAL SCORING ABILITY OF WILDCATS

Davidson’s State Championship Aspirations Hang in Balance as North Carolina State is Played on Richardson Field Gridiron

The fighting Wildcat eleven, seekers for honors in North Carolina football circles, today faces the crucial test in the game with North Carolina State, on Richardson Field. Through four victories over relatively weaker teams, through an immortal tie with the cohorts of Coach Hank Garrity from Wake Forest, and through a thrilling fight against the Purple Hurricane, the Wildcats have ranged until now they find the Wolfpack howling at their door.

Away back in ancient history, wolves and wildcats, yet unnamed, fought upon an ancient field in Davidson only to divide the spoils evenly between them, as the wolves raced back to their lair in Raleigh, and the Wildcats gathered in their claws. Frequently, the Wolfpack in quest of more spoils has roamed across the state and fought victorious skirmishes with the weaker Wildcats, but today alone have they been so daring as to enter the very camping grounds of the cats themselves. And all the more daring in that the Wildcat has grown and strengthened until he is a fit foe for even the raging Wolves.

The Wolfpack, led by Captain Al Johnstone and the great Jack McDowell in the backfield, comes to Davidson with a rather mediocre record but with great potential powers. Many football fans are expecting this power to reach its zenith in the Davidson game. Coach Tebell, of mid-western fame, will play his all in efforts to win today’s game. Davidson enters the game considerably strengthened by the return of Jim Hendrix as leader of the Wildcats. Also Anderson (Continued on page 6).

Fraternities Plan to Construct Home Soon Near Athletic Field

Charlotte Architect Has Drawn Plans to House Four Frats on Concord Street

The fraternities at Davidson, which have heretofore been located in houses on the campus, have finally put plans on foot to build houses off the campus. In the places where they are now, they have been under somewhat cramped conditions as in some cases there were two fraternities in the same house, which proved to be too small. Others were located in buildings in which there were classrooms and it was rather inconvenient. It has been the desire of the fraternities to get out of these unsuitable conditions for some time and now they are forging ahead with their plans.

A plat of land has been set aside for this purpose on Concord Street just south of the athletic field. This section adjoins the campus and will be convenient, yet it will be more private than old conditions. The planning of the project has been put in the hands of Mr. Boyer, an architect of Charlotte. There will be a driveway through the front of the section in the shape of a semi-circle. The space enclosed in this drive will be made into a court and will be decorated and beautified. Around the drive, the ground has been divided into nine lots of equal (Continued on page 6).