THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

This is your last warning. See L. L. DECK if you want to “sign-up”—Room behind Armory.

“Not on your life,” said the insurance agent to the steeplejack who wanted a policy.

Our latest: “She's only a printer's daughter, but I like her type.”

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

English Overcoats
GREAT, warm, easy hanging English Coats of Scotch, Irish, Harris Tweeds and English Woolens of Sterling character. Coats typical of
a standard of tailoring distinctly foreign---an air of smartness procured in no other way. Patterns and fabrics that have all
been individually selected,
Tate-Brown Co.
KEERANS & KING, Agents

Downs Light Wildcats
Wildkittens Show up Well in Aerial Attack But Cannot Stop Line Plunges

Starting off in the first few minutes with a drive that was unstoppable, the North Carolina State College freshmen defeated
Davidson freshmen here Friday afternoon 20 to 6. The game was featured by the work of the entire State team,
and the work of Davidson’s two ends, McConnell and Myers, and Holmgreen, in the line, and Black and Winburg in
the backfield.

The game started with State receiving the goal. They returned the kick-off to the 40-yard line, and it was a
steady march down the field to their first touchdown, Melton carrying the ball. During the first quarter State punted to
Davidson's thirty-eight-yard line, and a pass to McConnell was good for 30 yards; another to Meyers went for 28 yards,
to put the ball on State's fifteen-yard line. From here Black carried it across in five plays, giving Davidson her
only score. Winburg failed to kick the goal.

In the second quarter, State kicked off to Davidson's twenty-yard line, from which place line plays were used to put
the ball across. Davidson started a drive in this period, gaining ground mostly through the air, but this was checked
by the half ending.

State kicked off in the second half, and they returned the ball to the forty-yard line. In the third quarter,
State scored again. Outen carried the ball across, also Davidson to a series of plays put the ball on the
thirty-five-yard line, but McConnell intercepted a pass and returned it eighteen yards, stopping the drive. In the fourth period, Goodrum
intercepted a Davidson pass and raced sixty yards for State's last touchdown.

State had a much heavier team than Davidson, and they were able to gain at will through the lighter line.
Davidson made most of her gains through the air, McConnell and Meyers starring on the receiving end of the passes.
Meyers was especially good, this little end receiving many passes from Winburg that kept Davidson well in mid-field and beyond.
The game see-sawed back and forth up and down the field, each team making a drive until they reached the
thirty-yard line, where they would lose the ball, and the other team would carry the ball back up the field
until they reached their opponent's thirty-yard line, here to lose the ball on downs.

The whole State team played well, especially Albright and Outen who tore through the lighter line for consistent gains. For
Davidson, too much cannot be said of the defensive work of Holmgreen and Black, or the offensive work of Meyers
in receiving forward passes, or the general all-round playing of McConnell. The passing off Winburg was of a high order.

The following is the line-up:
Davidson (6) Position State (20)
McConnell LE Deadmond
LeFevre LT Vaughn
Holmgreen LG Reese
King C Goodwin
Smith RG Ford
Wien RT Ellis
Myers RE Beatty
Winburg QB Laughland
Wells RH Albright
James LH Melton
Black (c) FB Outen

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

It is nearing time for the papers and the coaches to pick the mythical all-state eleven, and if one Jim
Hendrix does not occupy a berth on that team then there will be something wrong in Denmark. That is not
so much personal opinion, as the opinion of people all over North Carolina, for his dazzling performance against Carolina, Saturday,
has caused the headlines to carry his name as the outstanding and brilliant star of the game. Grey's name was
mentioned along with his many times, but we don't expect Dick to come across with that honor this year. However,
he has it coming to him some day, and that day may be next year. His return of the punts
against Carolina, Saturday, were remarkable.

Sports scribes will give consideration to Vance and Baker, for both of these men have been great forces in the
Wildcat line, which is altogether good, with every man deserving of good mention. What is so remarkable, and what people
sometimes lose sight of, is the fact that Davidson is a little school of about 625 students, with a team
that averages less than 160 pounds, meeting teams from student bodies of over 2,000 students, and whose average weight is
somewhere in the nature of between 10 to 20 pounds heavier. Yet the little Wildcat team beats these larger representative
teams, or plays them to a standstill.them to standstills, or outplays them, though defeated. It is remarkable, and while championship
honors may be meted out to some other team, upon a comparative basis Davidson could again claim first honors. And
they are, too. Such an expression “the Wildcats looked far better in defeat than the Tar Heels in victory,” thrills
every Davidson student.

Rihay read the other comments of the papers over North Carolina, and every publication that had a witness there cannot
give too much honor to the Wildcats. Coach Monk made a statement to the team which he has never made
to them before, and it shows what from his standpoint the game really was, for he told the team at
Monday's practice that they should have won the game. And when told the statistics, about how much more ground the
Wildcats had gained, then it was that he laughed and said, “To think what the score was with all of
that!”

Then, when Davidson comes out on the low end of a score and gains 10 yards more from the team
that won by two touchdowns, it shows that the Wildcats should get a great deal of consideration for that marvelous
feat, even though defeated. Charley's gay coat made quite a hit at the Carolina game. Charley has every slicker in
school beat a mile. He explained that he had the horseshoe painted on his coat so that he would not
lose it.

Score by quarters:
N. C. State Fresh 7 2 2 0
Davidson Fresh 6 0 0 0 6

Summary: Touchdowns: Melton, Outon, Goodwin, Black. Point after touchdown: Beatty (2). Officials: Referee, Kirkpatrick (State); Frew, (W. & L.); Head
Lineman, Crayton (Davidson).

The Duke game is going to be a set-up. That team has been growing stronger as the season has progressed,
and though they have so far been defeated by members of the big five, they may in turn defeat the
Wildcats. That would be terrible after the season the Wildcats have played. The Davidson team should get in there and
fight and show that the defeat by Carolina does not put a damper upon their fighting spirit.

SPECIAL NOTICE
FELLOWS
Have you signed a card for your copy of 1926 Quips and Cranks? Your last chance will be Friday, November
20th. You have already paid for your annual in the “blanket fees,” however, only the copies SIGNED FOR will be
ordered.

The New York Cafe
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.

Heavy State Fresh Team
Davidson Harriers Meet Duke Thanksgiving Day
Duke Stock Rises as Their Team Defeats Strong Virginia Aggregation 18-37

While the Wildcat eleven is busy showing Duke that there is not a line in all Carolina through which they
cannot rip a hole, the cross-country teams of the two colleges will be striving for victory on Thanksgiving day here
at Davidson. Both teams have had one meet so far this season, with different results. Davidson lost to State a
few weeks ago, while Duke won over Washington and Lee by the decisive score of 18 to 37. Conclusions drawn
from this are of no importance, since there is a difference of a month between the two. The local boys
have made a great deal of progress in that time. Duke will have the disadvantage of running on a strange
course plus the over-confidence arising from last week's victory. A Washington and Lee man is quoted as saying that “Last
year, the tables were reversed.” Just who are to represent the Red and Black has not yet been announced. Tryouts
are to be held either the last of this week or the first part of next. Seven men are to
be picked from the squad. Duke has a very good man in the person of Mabry. This young gentleman romped
his four miles last Saturday in the very good time of 22 minutes and three seconds to capture the initial
place. He was followed closely by three of his mates. The race here will be only a three-mile event, and
is to be so run that the finish will come in between the halves of the football game in front
of the bleachers.

Columbia Theological Seminary
1. The enrollment in the Junior Class equals the combined enrollment of the Middle and Senior Classes.
2. The second term begins February 9, 1926.
3. The Seminary has for ninety-seven years maintained the highest standard of entrance requirements and excellence in scholarship.
4. To receive our degrees, a student must present a bachelor’s degree from a reputable college.
5. A special English course, with no degree offered, is provided for worthy students, who come with approval of Presbytery;
but who present no college degree.
6. A catalogue, bulletins and other information furnished on request.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

PRINTING
When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 8 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.
In College Display Room every Friday 10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE
