THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 25, 1925

REMEMBER HACKNEY’S KICKS AND THOSE LAST TWO MINUTES

Central Cafeteria
“On the Square”
Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
Corner Trade and Tryon
Central Hotel Building

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Society Brand Suits
In the better fabrics $40
It’s a fact. We are selling Society Brand Clothes for forty dollars. These are the clothes—famous for their cut—accepted everywhere
as the finest America produces. We have a rich selection, too, of the better fabrics, at this price. It’s an
amazing value. We have never offered its equal.
The TATE-BROWN CO.

Davidson Invades Lair After Four Straight Victories
Wildcats Face Hardest Game of Schedule at Chapel Hill

The Wildcat basketball team has two more games to play before the exam schedule interrupts them, and one of these
games is the hardest that they will have on the schedule. They will journey over to Carolina Friday afternoon to
engage Monk McDonald's cagers in one of the important games of the season for Davidson. Tuesday night they will meet
the Elon team on the Davidson court. Friday afternoon the team leaves in cars for Chapel Hill, expecting to arrive
there in time for supper and a practice on the Carolina court that night. Saturday night they will give Carolina
one big fight for one of the state’s most important basketball games. They will leave right after the game, returning
home.

While Carolina is doped to win the game, the Wildcat tossers will let them know that they have won a
game, if they win. Dope has been upset all this season, and it isn’t too late now for some to
be spilled. Carolina is playing on their own court, which gives them a good advantage. They also have three of
last year’s team back and two men from the 1923 team. They also have some good material from last year’s
Freshman squad. They have played only one game this year in which the whole squad participated. They played the Charlotte
“Y” team during the Christmas holidays, but the whole team was not there, and nothing can be said about this
game, other than that they won by a field goal. They played the Durham Elks Friday night.

The only inter-collegiate game that the Carolina team will play before the Davidson game will be the Guilford team Friday
night. The team that Carolina will probably put in the field to compete against the Davidson team will be composed
of Cobb and McDonald, forwards; Dodderer, center; and Purser and Devin, guards.

The Elon team will be played here Tuesday night. Nothing can be learned of the Elon game, other than what
the Greensboro News said of it the other day. That paper stated that Elon and Guilford will be on a
par with Duke. If the Elon team can put up the fight that Duke put up last Friday and Saturday,
then another good game can be expected. The co-ed boys are no slouches when it comes to playing basketball, and
so the fur should fly when these teams meet Tuesday. The two teams did not meet last year, and in
the last meeting Elon was the victor.

The schedule called for a game with Clemson here last Tuesday, but this had to be called off, because final
arrangements could not be made. Manager Oeland is trying to arrange a game with some fast “Y” team before the
Carolina game, to keep the boys in practice. He is trying to get the Kannapolis team over here.

AS THEY STAND!

Player Position Field Goals Foul Goals Tot. Pts.
Anderson c 22 2 in 5 46
Staley rf 15 2 in 9 32
Hewlett rf 7 6 in 10 20
McConnell lg 9 2 in 3 20
Laird lf 4 2 in 4 10
Beall lf 2 3 in 5 7
Boggs (C) rg 0 2 in 6 4
Davidson 59 19 in 42 137
Opponents 33 21 in 53 87

Spalding Reach
Wright & Ditson
Goldsmith Goods
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade Street

The Last Whistle
By Don Wharton

The Charlotte News: “Monk Younger, if he keeps spreading gloom on the eve of important contests, will soon rank with
our leading football coaches.”—Eddie Breitz.

You said it, Eddie! All the Davidson spirit is not centered in our football team by any means; the basketball
squad here by their wonderful comeback against the Duke University quint last Friday won the honor of being called Wildcats
as much as any team that ever wore the Red and Black. After all hopes of a Davidson victory had
apparently been lost by the entire crowd in the Auditorium, the team came to life. It was as thrilling from
a basketball point of view as the great football rally down at Pinehurst last October or the last quarter of
the Thanksgiving Day game with Trinity.

The Wildcat victory over the Methodists was the first since 1921. For the past five times the Trinity team had
beaten the Wildcats. In 1922 when the Red and Black team won ten out of thirteen games, Trinity won two
of the three games the Wildcats lost.

Whether the Wildcats start from the first whistle as in Saturday night’s game or wait for a final burst of
phenomenal speed as the night before, they are going to have a hard time in defeating the Tar Heels. Carolina
teams have met defeat at the hands of Davidson too often to be over-confident when a Wildcat game is on.
From all advance dope the Carolina team will be good but not the Southern championship team that was turned out
over there last year. The loss of both McDonald and Carmichael along with Captain Green is a heavy one. It
seems that they are having a bit of trouble in filling the center's position. Dodderer is good on the tip
but goes back to stationary guard after that. They'll need a goodOne when Anderson lines up for his first time
against a varsity team from North Carolina. Anderson is high point man on the Davidson squad, having piled up 46
points in the four games that Davidson has played. And they've all been field goals, without an exception. The game
will be the first meeting between Monk McDonald and Monk Younger in the capacity as opposing coaches.

Wake Forest is another team that must have a good quint. Practically the entire team of last year is back.
When such men as Vickers and Greene and Ellington are forced to make trips as subs, the first string must
be pretty strong. They won two games last week—over Durham Elks and Richmond Blues. This week they are on a
trip through “ole Virginny,” where they meet W. & L., Virginia Tech, V. M. I., Lynchburg, the Richmond Blues, and
a game with Georgetown. Later on the Wildcats will travel over much the same route. However, we can never use
them as comparative scores, for the eastern trip comes first in February when Duke, the Durham Elks, and Wake Forest
are met on successive days.

From reports coming in, the V. P. I. team will be unusually strong this season. This year’s game will be
the first meeting of the Gobblers and Wildcats on the court in many years. Like Buck Flowers and Red Johnston,
he left for a bigger school, going to N. C. State. From there he entered the army and was killed
in France.

Medieval inquisitors' paddles are remedies being tried out to cure erring freshmen. Part of the erring fresh were seated in
a huge, black box and the two parts of the top were drawn together, leaving only the guilty heads exposed
to the hooting populace. The rest were provided with dog collars from which were suspended signs of a highly descriptive
character, such as “I Am Smart—I Break Freshman Rules,” and below “Offense—No Cap, Poor Attitude.”

After nearly two months of strenuous practice, the Fresh basketball team will open the 1925 season here on February 5
with the Trinity first-year quint. Following this will come a four-game trip through North Carolina, on which the five will
meet the leading freshman and prep school teams of the state. Oak Ridge, Trinity, and Carolina or N. C. State
yearlings will all be met on this little journey. Coach Rawson says that his team will be built around two
good defensive guards and will be one of the strongest defensive teams he has ever put out, considering forwards. Present
indications are that the team will be weaker than last year’s. However, Rawson says that in case he can develop
some good goalmen, he will put out a first-class quint.

Delma Brown, for three years a star on the Smithfield High School team which lost only five games in three
years, one being by a one-point margin to Asheville for the state championship in 1923, along with John Melton and
McAulay, are the leading guards. Brown is fast and great on floor work. At center, Oden from Greensboro High, and
Ben Wilson are showing up well, with Oden holding a slight margin. The forwards are led by Maulden from Kannapolis,
along with Hall of Belmont, and Milner and Mills from Reidsville High School, which won the state championship last year.

Fairmont College—Sparing the paddle spoils the Freshman, believes The Sunflower. “Last year the paddling line was abolished at Fairmont College
with what has proved to be unsatisfactory results.” The unpaddled Freshmen are a disloyal lot, continues Sunflower, they have not
“entered into the activities of the school with the same wholehearted interest that was displayed in past years.” While The
Sunflower is not in favor of the primitive paddle line of the past with its clubs, broomsticks, two-by-fours, and other
makeshift paddles, it does favor the paddling line for Freshmen with regulation paddles and unless such a system is restored,
the abolition of all Freshmen rules, including the wearing of green caps and ribbons, for under the present system it
is impossible to enforce them and they are worse than no rules at all.

HEAD COLDS—Melt a little Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Always use
freely just before going to bed.

VICKS VapoRub Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

PADDLING FRESHMEN—A FAVORITE OUTDOOR SPORT

A paddling epidemic has seized several universities and colleges. More stringent rules and strong applications of hardwood paddles are remedies
being tried out to cure the wholesale disregard for customs and tradition at Princeton, Columbia, Coe College (Iowa), Fairmount College
(Kansas), and Willamette College (Oregon).

On These Cold Days--- GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES They Satisfy the Appetite

Princeton—If you have seen any Freshmen wearing gaudy vests or yellow slickers; socks, shoes, garters, or ties of any color
except black; walking on the grass; smoking on the street or on the campus; out after 9:00 o'clock at night;
then it is your duty to report him to the Vigilance Committee. The Vigilance Committee is composed of Sophomores, sworn
to enforce all traditions. It has been recently formed to combat the wholesale disregard for existing Freshman customs.

Columbia—A group of black-robed Sophs led recalcitrant Freshmen to instruments of torture reminiscent of the Fascisti.

W. G. SHIELDS is of 25 For High Class PRINTING of every description

GO TO IT, FRESH!

Under a strict faculty ruling, making it impossible for the Freshman quintet to play more than six games during any
one season, the following “Jam-Up” schedule has been drawn up for the present season. Only six of the following games
will be played.

Feb. 5—Trinity Fresh at Davidson.
Feb. 16—Oak Ridge at Oak Ridge.
Feb. 17—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
Feb. 18—Carolina Fresh at Chapel Hill (pending).
Feb. 19—Trinity Fresh at Trinity.
Feb. 20—N. C. State at Raleigh (pending).

SERVICE

C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Wholesale

When You Need Candy See Us 26-28 S. College St CHARLOTTE, N. C.
