4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 12, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher Editor
BOB SPRIGG........Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCH........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS........Athletic Editor
L. D. WHARTON........Alumni Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON........Advertising
D. O. McSWAIN........Circulation Manager
C. R. HUNTER........Subscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON........Bookkeeper
W. H. LYNCH........Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH........Typist

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. JONES
J. M. APPLEBY
J. D. LAWS
M. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
GARNETT McMILLAN
D. M. CALHOUN
J. E. MOORE
W. T. COVINGTON
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
C. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

Our number has been lessened by a few since the last examinations, and worried looks are not over yet, as
all the reports are not out.

The wrestling team made a creditable showing on their two-match trip. Although the service team at Annapolis snowed them under
27-0, the Red and Black team won from State 11-6. Saturday the V. P. I. Gobblers, who defeated Virginia 18-3,
will be seen in action on the home grounds.

The Wildcat quint faces one of the hardest tests of the season when they meet the Georgia Tech five in
Charlotte next Tuesday. The Yellow Jackets are the only team from the South that Monk Younger's charges meet. All the
other games are with North Carolina and Virginia teams.

The literary societies are uniting more to keep up the standard of literary work on the campus. Instead of a
declamation medal being given by each society to the winner of the society contest, one will be given to the
man who wins out in an inter-society contest. The medal will mean more, and the type of work should be
bettered by this move. Other changes tend to better conditions. We hope this will be a big step toward gaining
for speaking activities the recognition they deserve.

Much interest centers in the averages of the four classes during the past semester. It would be no surprise if
the Senior class registered the highest average in recent years. By next week the Honor Roll statistics will be out
and several men whose names have never before appeared on the select list are sure to be in a prominent
position.

The American Campus notes that paddling of Freshmen has been abolished at St. Lawrence University. The system of regulating Freshmen
which has been substituted includes clipping of hair, extra duties and confinement to rooms. Wherever hazing is abolished some governing
body in its stead is appointed to take rigorous action. The Black Avengers, a secret Sophomore organization, handle the first-year
men at Columbia with a stern hand. Violators of Freshmen rules were recently made to parade before the college library
wearing dog collars and signs reading “I am smart. I break Freshmen rules.”

Where there is action, reaction is sure to follow, as is shown by the Harvard University Freshmen who, finding that
a life without hazing offered no thrills, requested the authorities to allow unrestricted hazing. The authorities granted the request by
officially sanctioning hazing. Which all goes to show that Freshmen are hard to please in any case.

Open Forum With the College Editors

Chaff

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who
desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of
the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will
express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion of problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication,
if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be in the hands of The Davidsonian by 7:00
p.m. Monday.)

A DIRECTOR OF MUSIC FOR DAVIDSON COLLEGE

In recent years there has been considerable discussion among cultured Presbyterians as to the decline of the Southern Presbyterian Church
with regard to music. To be sure, the standard of music in an isolated few of our large city churches
compares favorably with that anywhere, but when we consider the great number of churches, including most of our city churches
and all of our country churches, in which the musical part of the services is a weekly source of pain,
something to be endured with fortitude, we must realize that a condition exists which seriously needs the most immediate remedy
we can provide for it.

Davidson College may properly be called the officers training camp of the Southern Presbyterian Church. The hopes for the future
of Southern Presbyterianism are brought to a focus on Davidson’s campus, and what do we find here with regards to
music? We find a student body of six hundred young men with latent musical tastes and talents that, would in
time, if properly husbanded, make the musical standard of our church second to none, not even of the celebrated German
communities. When the call was issued for candidates for the Glee Club this year, one-sixth of the entire student body
were interested enough to appear for the trials. Every year the incoming freshman class brings in a wealth of talent
along instrumental lines, but the case is usually that only the three or four best secure enough recognition to sustain
them in their musical work, and by their senior year, their talent has all but atrophied with disuse. Furthermore, the
singing of the student body at the weekly Y. M. C. A. meetings has long excited the admiration of visiting
speakers. Yes, there is plenty of taste and talent for music in the student body of Davidson College.

It is now the case and has been since 1837 that the musical interests of the college are fostered only
by spasmodic organizations such as the band, the orchestra and the glee club, often by only one of these and
sometimes by none. These organizations have arisen only as some student or group of students have been interested enough to
organize them, themselves. The Military Band which has existed for the last decade or less may claim exemption from this
category, but it has only been steady in its supply of instruments, never in its supply of leadership and its
quality of production. Under such varying circumstances, it has been nigh unto impossible to achieve any great success in developing
the musical propensities of such of the future leaders of our Church as have attended Davidson College. A mere beginning
is all that has ever been achieved in even the best cases.

Here at Davidson is the place where the situation of our Church can most easily be affected for either better
or worse. By the institution of a department of music, provided at least a director of musical activities and courses
in chorus part-singing and music appreciation, the situation would in a very short while be materially affected for better. We
spend considerable money each year for athletic directors and equipment. The Greeks who exalted athletic sports as a cultural agency
were no less musicians than athletes. Dr. Edward Puffer, speaking last summer before the students of N. C. C. W.,
ranked music among the avocations possessing the highest cultural value. Surely, we all recognize a well-developed sense of appreciation for
music as a sign of culture. Here in college the aim is to cultivate the whole personality of the students.
We do take pains to develop the physical side of the student, and we ought to take pains to cultivate
the musical side of the man.

So we see that the installation of a director would not only serve to meet a need in the Church
at large, but would also serve to fill a vacancy which has existed in the faculty of the college itself.
A musical director would have charge of the musical organizations of the college, would stimulate the interest in things musical,
and would train the students in the rudiments of music, both of singing and appreciation. The organizations which are now
so spasmodic in their existence would then have a permanent head who could effectively conserve the accomplishments of one year
for the succeeding year, thus doing away with the necessity of beginning at the bottom each year. The organization would
then be assured of competent leadership from year to year, andwould not be dependent upon the rise of some capable
student for existence. Whenever necessary, the director could develop his own material for the organizations and always he could develop
what talent might be presented. The field is white unto the harvest and the Southern Presbyterian Church needs the harvest.

All articles must be handed in to the Editor.

TECHNIQUE OF COURTSHIP

The technique of courtship has changed greatly in three decades, judging by reports of the elders of the present generation.
In the old days, the maid sat in the parlor to be wooed. Perhaps she sat on a squeaky stool
to play an organ or piano. If she did, the man stood beside her to turn the music. He did
not hear the music. His only sensation was one of delight in the beauty of her six-inch pompadour as seen
from above. If she did not play, he sat on a thing called a sofa and studied her whiskered ancestors
in an album. At times their hands almost touched and little shivers ran up and down his back. Little things
meant much in those days. The first time the man held her hand, he was thrilled as by the visitation
of angels. The youngsters won't believe this, but it is true. He lost all sense of time and space and
just sat there dumb with ecstasy. And then the great event! It was a moonlight night, and the reins were
slack on the dashboard, and the madness of spring was in him. He kissed her! Oh, my gosh! Right smack
on the mouth! There wasn’t any rouge in those days, and very little powder, and he didn’t taste anything but
girl. How commonplace and wearisome Paradise would have seemed to him then. How long ago! How long ago!

The modern maid is just as sweet, for all her shorn tresses and silken legs, but the way of the
man has changed. He drives up in front and honks and he doesn’t help her in. She doesn’t need any
help. Given a running start, she could jump in without opening the door. They don’t hold hands. And a kiss
doesn’t mean very much to either of them. It is just a substitute for conversation. It takes the place of
the family album. And it has strange flavors. How wonderful to be wise! But how much more thrilling it was
to be green!

—The Richmond Collegian

LET’S HAVE A CRUTCH FACTORY

A student who has not been on the campus very long called us off the other day with a worried
look on his face. “I am worried about the girls in Atlanta,” he said. “I am afraid that this fast
life is just naturally sapping the life out of our pretty girls; I have seen so many of them that
are not able to walk alone. Why, ever so often I see a girl that looks healthy having to hang
on to a man for support. I know that it was not because the ground was rough because they were
on a cement sidewalk. I felt bad because she was so pretty and it is a shame that she is
crippled.” We hastened to assure him that perhaps the girl was only temporarily disabled and that as soon as she
reached home she would probably kick out the light, in her glee over the outcome of her walk. “But,” he
insisted, “I see lots of girls like that and I know some of them must be crippled. Why, I had
thought that I might start a crutch factory here and make a lot of money, for there is certainly a
need.” And since he mentioned it, we are of the opinion that he was about right. Time was when you
helped a girl over the rough places and when it was dark you guided her along the walk, but this
slopping over was not at all the thing to do. Besides, the girls need the training that comes from standing
up straight. If they will only be patient, it is dark about eight hours out of every twenty-four.

—The Emory Wheel

The institution of a department of music with a competent director to teach needed courses and direct the musical organizations
of the college is the needed harvester. The excuse of the past for not having one may lie in the
lack of funds, but now a comfortable sum has been placed at the disposal of the college authorities, and a
small portion of it would cover the requirements for the department. A part of this fund could not be more
profitably invested in college improvements. But why should not some worthy son of Presbyterianism and lover of music invest a
part of his wealth in this most worthy and needed enterprise, contributing a large part to the uplift of Davidson
College and of the Presbyterian Church? Here is an almost unparalleled opportunity for service rendered by wealth.

A. M. M. D.

For once in Davidson history, it failed to rain on a special occasion, and the house parties last week were
the most successful ever held here. The enjoyment was unanimous.

A basketball game with the Belmont Legion, the Davidson-V.P.I. wrestling meet, and a free movie make an attractive schedule for
Saturday night.

(N. B.—The newest song hit, TOOT, Gabriel, TOOT, dedicated to the modern prophet Robert Reidt and his followers, who sat
weary and hungry on the side of one of Los Angeles' highest hills, waiting for the world to end, and
waited, and waited. This little ditty sounds best when played on a Jewish Harp to the tune of a famous
Irish ballad entitled, “The World is very, very round; but it’s crooked just the same.”)

We've waited tired and hungry,
For the trumpet’s piercing sound,
And we're getting plumb disgusted,
Since the world keeps going ’round.
We've told the boys and girlies,
How the world was soon to stop,
But, by gad, they don’t believe us,
And none of them will flop.
It’s high time the flames were lighted,
And a fire the earth consumed,
And the skies were filled with thunder
And with lightning loudly boomed.
It’s high time the end was coming,
We've waited now too long,
So with hopes renewed and freshness,
We sing our little song.

Chorus
Come, Gabriel, toot the old cornet.
Blow hard, and long, and loud,
And if the old horn’s out o’ whack,
For goodness sake just whistle!

Not content with the semblance of Hades that the world has passed through in the past few years, a bunch
of reformed Seven-Day Advertisers, or something of the sort, recently banded together and filled the already frightful republic with the
sad and fearful news that the end was near at hand, that Gabriel was inhaling for a long and fateful
blast on his hitherto unused musical instrument. A certain Mrs. Rowan, self-named prophetess, gathered thirty-five of her faithful followers in
her home to await the expected millennium, which was to have come at midnight last Friday. The members of the
new sect disposed of all their worldly possessions and broadcasted their warnings far and wide. They chose a fellow named
Province as leader (supposedly because his name sounded sort of “Providential”) and prayed, and fasted, and prayed and fasted. But,
the world wouldn’t end! Carrots and water went all right for a couple of days, with a halo harp in
the immediate offing. But the Rowan followers at last got hungry and decided that if the world was determined to
go on, despite their prophecies, they would just have to go back to work and make the best of it.
Their breakfast the morning following their night of watchful waiting must have been a regular feast of Thanksgiving. Radios buzzed,
gossipers rejoiced, and the newspapers were filled with the news of the “beginning of the end.” But, old Gabriel still
refused to blow the horn. A press dispatch, which appeared in many of America’s largest papers, is quoted below:

Paper Would Collect Account Before End

Mount Carmel, Pa., Feb. 7—(United News)—Calling attention yesterday to the fact that the end of the world was scheduled for
Friday midnight, the Mount Carmel Item requested all its delinquent subscribers and other debtors to call and pay their debts
before midnight, “As we do not want to be compelled to chase all over Hell collecting accounts.”

It is even rumored that France, and some of our other indifferent debtors were almost scared into a payment. That's
something in favor of the prophets! Davidson professors, however, were not deterred from assignment of lessons for the next day
by the sad news. It is said that Fresh Ibie, realizing that the end was at hand, contented himself with
the idea that if the prophecies did come true, and he was suddenly translated from his earthly abode to the
realms of Satan, he would at least have had the privilege of becoming a member of the select society of
movie actresses and wild women, who would surely have become tenders of the fires. We wonder now if Jack Dempsey
hadn’t counted on the prophecies coming true. The way he has refused to fight would indicate that he wished to
leave the earth as the last of the heavyweight champions. Maybe, too, he counted on Gabriel saving him from the
greater battles of matrimony.

—W. H. B.
