THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 8, 1925

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders
BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW
---AT THE---
VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N.C.
Programme for Week
Oct. 7-8---Constance Talmadge in Her Night of Romance.
Oct. 9-10---The Thief of Bagdad, with Douglas Fairbanks.
Oct. 12-13---Tongues of Flame.
Oct. 14-15---One Night in Rome.
Oct. 16-17---Stop Flirting.
Comedy or News reels run with all pictures.
Your patronage always appreciated.

GET IT AT
MILLER DRUG COMPANY
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
WHERE ALL THE YOUNG PEOPLE MEET

Shirts, Hosiery, Pajamas and Shoes, everything for Men’s Wear
COME IN AND GIVE US A TRIAL
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
(DAVIDSON'S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO
No very marked contrast is discernible between the state of affairs at Davidson five years ago and the conditions now
existing. The Wildcat eleven was defeated at the hands of the heavy Washington and Lee Generals. Two field goals by
Silverstein accounted for the 6-0 score registered. The Generals threatened to score several times, but could not break through the
strong Wildcat defense. Captain Hammett, of Davidson, did some fine work in breaking up the General’s aerial attack. Mattox, Washington
and Lee halfback, and now Freshman coach at Davidson, was the outstanding star. He was the only man to make
any appreciable gains through the Red and Black line.

Plans were formulated and a basis for the election of reporters to the club was stressed. These plans were calculated
to promote greater interest in the work and to make the “Davidsonian” the “best college weekly in the South.” The
students were asked to subscribe three dollars each to the 1921 Quips and Cranks fund, as insufficient funds existed to
guarantee publication of a creditable annual. The proposition was brought before the students by C. W. Long, editor-in-chief, and it
met with the hearty approval of the entire student body.

Davidson was honored by a visit from Major Mueller, formerly Captain, Commandant and Professor of Military Science and Tactics here.
He viewed the battalion parade and was pleased with the review. Announcement was made that the Redpath Lyceum would present
five numbers at Davidson, beginning October 11th with Ralph Bingham, then America’s foremost humorist.

The following quotation is from an editorial appearing in the October 8, 1920 issue of the “Davidsonian”:
“Just remember also, men, that it does not cost anything to utter a friendly greeting, and yet just one or
two words spoken in this way will change the whole aspect of things. It will make the whole day seem
brighter and you will feel like you are a real man. Try it, Freshmen, and see if we are not
right.”

BLUE PENCIL CLUB
(Continued from page 1)
Upsilon is the highest literary reward conferred upon a Davidson student. Student members of the Blue Pencil chapter at present
are: S. W. Brown, C. F. Monk, R. B. Parker, and C. F. Smith. Definite work was begun by the
Reporters’ Club.

HONORARY FRATERNITY SCHEDULE
Below is given the permanent schedule of meetings of the honorary fraternities of Davidson. This schedule was arranged by the
Honorary Fraternity Council. It must be noticed that the schedule is of the alternating type, one set of fraternities meeting
one week and then alternating with the other set the next week. The schedule is as follows:

Week Beginning October 4th and Alternating
Mon. | Tues. | Wed. | Thurs. | Fri.
Biology Club | Philosophy Club | Alpha Phi Epsilon

Week Beginning October 11th and Alternating
Mon. | Tues. | Wed. | Thurs. | Fri.
Sigma Pi Sigma | Scabbard and Blade | Delta Pi Sigma | O. D. K. | Kappa Upsilon | Gamma
Sigma Epsilon

YMCA Commences Big Sunday School Program
Christian, Sims, Kauffert and Others Rendering Big Service in Nearby Churches

The Y. M. C. A. has begun an extensive program of Sunday School work in the community for the coming
year. In previous years much good has been accomplished through the Sunday Schools established and carried on by Davidson men.
This year G. M. Eddington will have charge of this department of the “Y” work. Every Sunday some of the
students hold services in different parts of the community. W. A. Christian with a few able helpers holds a Sunday
School service in the afternoon at Hobson’s Chapel. R. D. Kauffert takes old magazines and newspapers to the convict camp,
and holds a service for the convicts every Sunday afternoon. Save all the old magazines which you have finished and
someone will collect them to take to the camp. A Bible class for young men has been established at Cornelius
recently. Roland Sims is going to teach it, and has a great opportunity in that field. A class is held
every Sunday morning at ten o'clock in the balcony of the church for Davidson students. Five members of the faculty
teach the class in rotation. There are already about one hundred members in the class. This class is steadily growing
and the members arevery enthusiastic over it.

FAMOUS FINANCIER

(Continued from page 1)

could succeed. He turned along this line to show that many times the fault lies with the parent rather than
with the child. He showed that the trouble is not in juvenile delinquency but in the inefficiency of a parent
or an adult.

“The greatest problem of the democratic world today is that of leadership. The boy of today is the leader of
tomorrow. There must be a conversion of the youth of today for the financial leadership of tomorrow. A real man
can be made of nothing except a real boy. And a real woman can be developed out of nothing except
a real girl. The salvation of the land we love is worked out by each generation as it comes along.
The thoughtful leaders of affairs have said that you will have greater problems to solve than any other generations.”

Mr. Beck pointed out that the faculty of Davidson College are giving their all to bring every student through so
that he may be a leader in his community when he has finished school. But in the final analysis, he
would have to stand on his own feet without their assistance.

“Men in the financial world and especially in New York want a man to work under them who looks for
an opportunity rather than a dollar mark. I would like to suggest four things to aid in your carrying out
these things I have set forth. First, have a plan; there is a genuine peril for any man who has
not a definite plan in view while in his college career. Second, the need of purpose; lack of this is
killing the tomorrows of more men than anything else today. The fact that a man can do anything really means
that he can do nothing. Third, need of perseverance; tomorrow will be assured if today is safe. Fourth, a superhuman
passion for righteousness. Many people are now approaching the sunset of life with nothing before them but material gains of
life.”

Prof. A. Currie introduced the speaker in a few well-chosen words and also made a short talk after the lecture
which was also enjoyed by the audience. The number of students present greatly enjoyed the talk and lecture. Dr. E.
F. Shewmake, chairman of the faculty committee on lectures, announced that the other speakers to lecture at a later date
will be arranged and announced sometime in the near future.

Sappenfield on Road to Recovery from Injuries

Wildcat Victory Over Wake Forest Puts Wounded Quarterback in Fine Spirits

“Nick” Sappenfield is resting much better than he was last week. His leg is in a plaster cast and is
not troubling him as formerly. The flesh wound in his leg, caused by the bone breaking through, is healing with
great rapidity. It was sewed up at the time the cast was put on and has been dressed daily by
means of a small hole left in the plaster just over the wound. Tuesday the leg is to be x-rayed
to determine whether it is properly set. Contrary to expectations, “Nick” was not able to attend the game Saturday, but
was so well pleased with the outcome that he was in great spirits after the game. After Tuesday, visitors will
be allowed to visit him and it is certain that he will appreciate a visit from any of the students.
Everything possible is being done to make him comfortable and his condition is wonderful. However, he will be confined for
at least three more weeks.

WILMINGTON STUDENTS ORGANIZE NEW CLUB

On Tuesday evening of last week, the fellows from Wilmington, N. C., met in Phi Hall to form a club.
Of the 20 from that city, there were 15 present and all had a good time. The organization and business
matters were the first brought to the surface. The officers elected were: President, Andy Hewlett; vice-president, Harlee Bordeaux; and secretary-treasurer,
Bob Platt. The main idea of the club is to boost Davidson in their home town and encourage fellows to
join the Wildcat bunch when it becomes time to choose an alma mater. The initial meeting was brought to a
close by all joining in and having a swell feed which was prepared by some of the members.

PILOT MOUNTAIN - NORTH CAROLINA

THE PILOT

For the College Man

The Pilot Life Insurance Company provides a contract at one-half regular premium rates during the first five years. This liberal
feature makes it convenient for the college man to get his life insurance at his present age and carry it
for the least possible cost during college days. See that you get your protection from the Pilot.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
GREENSBORO, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, President

SELLERS Kitchen Cabinet

The best servant you can put in your Kitchen.

SOLD IN STATESVILLE BY
Nicholson Furniture Co.

QUALITY

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant
17 S. Tryon St.
The Best Places to Eat

CHARLOTTE SERVICE

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES

Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.
Room every Friday 2:00 to 4:00 P. M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.
