THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 15, 1925

HARRY VANCE
D* Football
D Baseball
D Wrestling

In his Sophomore year, Vance won three letters, and since then he has been a true football player in every
sense of the word; speedy, possessing that indomitable courage that is essential to a Wildcat, and having a keen mind
capable of analyzing every play of his opponent. This match, to be held Feb. 7, is furnishing a lively topic
of conversation on the Hill as each fellow has hopes of beating a team such as Navy. This comparatively new
and apparently not much thought of sport is gaining headway in the south.

The schedule as arranged by Coach Tex and Manager Jim Patton is as follows:
March 28—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.
April 4—Wofford at Davidson.
April 11—U. S. C. at Columbia.

Fresh Cinder Squad to Schedule Several Meets
First Yearling Track Team For Davidson Will Meet Good Teams—

For the past several years wrestling has been a great factor in Davidson athletics. He is a dynamic guard on
the eleven, a hard-hitting outfielder on the nine, and a powerful and untiring wrestler in the middleweight class. Vance, especially
in football, typifies to perfection that indomitable and unflagging wildcat fight. Outweighed throughout the season, and often almost completely hidden
by his massive opponent, he has nevertheless proven to be one of Davidson’s greatest linesmen. His fierce charges, like dynamite,
frequently brought the runner down with unerring accuracy. Time and again he has swept in and demolished the apparently faultless
interference of the enemy, and then crashed into the runner with an unnerving tackle. Despite the overwhelming weight against him,
it is very rare that any substantial gain is made over his portion of the line. His offensive work is
as pronounced and as exceptional as his defensive. He cuts his man with a preciseness and effectiveness that is remarkable.
Harry is not a spectacular or flashy player. Nor is his wonderful fight momentary. He is always a fierce, charging,
constantly fighting guard—unswerving and unfaltering. His greatest playing was in the Clemson game of 1923, and the Wofford, Clemson, Carolina,
and Trinity games of the past season. The press was not slow in recognizing his qualities, several papers placing him
on the all-state pick.

In the 1924 baseball season, Harry began somewhat inauspiciously, but at the end was hitting at a terrific pace, in
the last six games getting 10 hits out of twenty-four times at the bat. As for his fielding, the News
and Observer asserted after the game with N. C. State at Raleigh, that Vance’s brilliant catch was the most remarkable
ever seen on Riddick Field. Last year, Vance was in the middleweight class on the Varsity wrestling team, and proved
to be an important factor in the excellent record made. Because of injuries sustained in football, he was unable to
begin early practice on the mat this season; but will probably be seen in action soon.

JIM HENDRIX
** Football
D Track

Since coming to Davidson as a boy with high ideals, Hendrix has won for himself an enviable reputation. He is
not only an athlete of great repute but is a popular man on the campus as well. Jimmy’s game is
football. He is a good defensive player but is at his best on the offensive and is thought by many
to be the best broken field runner Davidson has produced in many a year. Often are the times that he
has taken the ball through a field strewn with opponents, across the goal line, to the amazement of the spectators.
One of his greatest pieces of broken field running was in the Trinity game when he ran forty yards for
the first touchdown of the Wildcats. He was placed on the all-state team football by several of North Carolina's leading
papers, getting a place on the second team in every other daily.

On the campus Jimmy is extremely popular. He is president of the student body, president of the student council, a
member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, social, and Omicron Delta Kappa fraternity, honorary. He is respected by the entire student
body not only because of his athletic ability but because of his high ideals. Jimmy stands for what is right
no matter what the issue is. This is what has gained for him his popularity on the campus and is
what will count when he goes out into the world. In losing Jimmy, a recognized leader, Davidson loses a man
who has meant much to her and will without a doubt bring much honor and credit to her in years
to come. There is some possibility of his returning next fall. This would mean much for the Davidson team and
the campus life.

TOM BAKER
D* Football

Tom Baker has the distinct honor of being the only Davidson man on the official first team of the official
all-state pick for the season of 1924. Well does this “fire-eating Wildcat” deserve the honor accorded him for he is
one of the most brilliant players ever produced by Davidson College. Weighing only 159 pounds he has more than held
his own in every game against men twenty and thirty pounds heavier than he is. Tom is a popular member
of the Davidson chapter of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity. Tom is expected to cover himself with glory again next
year and bring honor and fame to himself and to his alma mater and again be known as “All-State Tom.”

Coach Younger’s Machine Wrecked for First Time
Hard-Hitting Buick Refuses to Give Way to Plunging Studebaker—Tilson Fights to Last

Coach Monk Younger’s machine met disaster for the first time this year last Friday night; but this time by a
speeding automobile and not an athletic team. Coach Monk was returning from Charlotte about ten-thirty after defeating Duke, with seven
members of the basketball squad. About eight miles from Charlotte, Coach was traveling at a moderate speed, approaching a curve
when Coach Monk saw the light of another automobile coming toward him. He kept his machine well on the right
side of the road but when he saw the other machine was coming on his side also he even ran
over into the mud. But it was too late; the other man was too far on the wrong side and
he crashed into Coach’s car, whirling it halfway around into the road. Fortunately, no one was injured, but the damages
to both cars were considerable. On Coach’s car, the rear wheel was broken, the fender and running board smashed, the
brakes locked, and the gears hung up. The total amount of damage to his car amounted to about three or
four hundred dollars. On the other car, the left front wheel was broken, the radiator was crushed, and the windshield
was broken. There were four occupants of the other car, two ladies and two men, all residents of Charlotte. Coach’s
car was a new Buick Standard Six coach that had been run only a few hundred miles. It was bought
prior to the holidays and was new and in perfect order in every respect.

POSTPONED CONCORD MEET MAY COME SATURDAY EVE

The wrestling meet scheduled for last week was postponed owing to the fact that a basketball game had been scheduled
and a picture show afterward. When Manager Patterson learned of this fact he wired the Concord team if it would
be possible to have the meet only at 7 o'clock. The manager wired back that most of the Concord team
were working boys and didn’t get off work till 6 o’clock. Due to this, it was decided to have the
meet in the near future. At present noA definite date has not been set, but both teams are anxious to
clash, and it is possible that they will come together either tomorrow or Saturday night. Coach Weems’s team is in
the best of condition and is ready to start on the stiffest schedule of some years. The Navy meet this
year will give Davidson the first opportunity to meet as he led the floor with 13 points. His play was
easily the outstanding feature of the game.

Prospect Fair
The sport has been holding a prominent place among other activities in the big eastern colleges; in fact, in some,
it is on a par with basketball.

SUPERIOR TEAMWORK AND TECHNIQUE OF WILDCATS
No freshmen will be eligible to participate in any varsity track meets this spring on account of the inter-collegiate ruling.
There will be a fresh track team which will engage in meets with various other fresh teams and high school
squads around the country. All freshmen will be eligible for this squad, and a large number of candidates are expected
when Coach Tex issues the initial call. Several freshmen have shown up well in the fall practice; among these being
O’Neal and Stigler, who made the trip to Wake Forest last fall to run in the State cross-country race. A
meet with Charlotte High has been arranged to come off early in the spring. A meet with Winston-Salem as well
as with some fresh teams in the state is pending. As this is the first time Davidson has produced a
Wildkitten track team, it is expected that it will have strong support from the student body and make as good
a record as have the other fresh athletic teams.

COACH TEX’S COWBOYS TO OPEN SCRUB SEASON
There is a delightful treat in store for Davidson basketball enthusiasts this week. Saturday night they will see Coach Tex
Tilson’s mysterious team go up against the strong American Legion five at Charlotte. Very little is known of the aggregation
from Charlotte, but it is rumored that they will present a well-balanced and smooth-working machine. The strength of Tilson’s team
is even less known, this being their first real scrap. One thing is known, however, and that is that there
is some very good material in the squad. Faucette was picked last fall on the first all-class team as forward
and is showing up good. Lawson, Cooke, and Goodykoontz were all on the second all-class team, and all three, especially
Cooke, are playing fast ball. “Nick” Sappenfield, Hudgins, and “Brassie” Baker are setting a fast pace, while “Red” McComb and
Matthews are both likely to be seen in action. It will be the first opportunity of seeing Coach Tilson’s yet
unnamed team, and a record crowd is expected. The game starts at 7:00. An admission of 10 cents will be
charged. The following is the probable lineup for Tilson’s team:
Cooke, Right Forward.
Sappenfield, Left Guard.
Hudgins, Center.
Baker, Right Guard.
Faucett, Left Forward.
Substitutes: Mathews, Goodykoontz, McComb.

COACH TILSON PLANS
Hendrix, sprinter of renown and football star par excellence, and “Red” McCombs, who is expected to equal his feat of
breaking the state record in the javelin throw this year. And last but not by any means least, we mention
Williford, Davidson's “two-mile Wildcat,” who will “show ’em how” in this event again this year. The team suffered considerably from
the loss of men by graduation and otherwise last year, but with such material as Goodykoontz, Gudger, and others who
will be out, Coach Tex expects to have a fighting organization. He says that although the chances are fairly slim,
a little nourishment will tend to fatten them up. Regular practice will start about March 1, and a record turnout
of candidates is expected by Coach Tex. Attempts were made to book meets with Duke University and Wake Forest, but
schedules of the two institutions would not permit.

April 25—Clemson at Davidson.
May 3—State meet (place undecided).
Efforts were made by the other colleges concerned to stage the state meet at Davidson, but the facilities for entertaining
the visiting athletes are inadequate, and the idea had to be abandoned.

GOING TO SCHOOL BY RADIO
When John or Mary wish to go to college, in 1930, the only expense entailed will be the purchase of
a radio set; if they wish to change colleges, that can be accomplished by changing the wavelength. Radio schools have
already been established, according to reports emanating from Germany, and the states of Georgia and Kansas. Berlin—A radio university has
recently been started in Berlin. Its faculty is to be composed of the most famous scholars of Germany. It is
to be called Hans Bredow School, in honor of State Secretary Dr. Bredow, who was very influential in spreading radio
throughout Germany, and it has been formally opened in the presence of the representatives of the German government, as well
as of the University of Berlin and several high schools of high standing. Kansas State Agricultural College has established a
radio college which will broadcast 40 college extension courses during the next eight months. Mercer University, Macon, Ga., will offer
a series of four college courses. Pupils in the radio classes will be asked to send in their names, reports
on home assignments, and requests for additional courses.

—The New Student.

Hart Schaffner & Marx Young Men Tell Us We’ve Scored a Bullseye
There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s
vigor, life, ZIP in them.
Mellon’s

RESOLUTIONS PASSED
(Continued from page 1)
and The Davidsonian, and that they be entered upon the records of the Student body. Done this 16th day of
December, 1924, Davidson College, Davidson, N. C.
Signed:
A. F. Simpson, Chairman,
C. M. S. McIlwaine,
C. F. Smith,
For Committee.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men

Younger was head coach of basketball while at V. P. I. In 1922 his team went pretty strong down in
Atlanta.
