THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

FOR A GOOD JOB SEE US
E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Davidson, N. C.

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW

Many Improvements on College Golf Course
Efforts of Dr. Arbuckle Responsible For Fine Course—Weather Slows up Work

Wildcat Hall of Fame
“BUCK” FLOWERS
Football

The Scotch game has already taken hold of quite a number of the fellows this year. He had played some
football at prep and high school, and everyone seems to be enjoying it. This year this section of the country
has been without rains all summer and this has greatly hindered the work on the golf course. However, recent rains
have made it possible to improve it some, and continued improvements will be made as the weather will permit. The
greens have been cleared of all obstructions and the tees have been laid and the top surface is in place.
When this is finished the course will contain nine holes and will be in the best of shape.

There is especially one member of the faculty that has always taken a great interest in our golf course, and
it is entirely due to him that Davidson students now have the privilege of playing on one of the best
nine-hole golf courses in the South.

A. R. (Buck) Flowers came to Davidson only one year, of his Soph year. While here he set a record
for Freshmen that few have ever equaled and none have surpassed. He was a star back on that famous team
of 1917, the one which Morgan Blake called the “Lightweight Champions of the World.” It was he who scored the
first points on Tech's wonder team of the same year, a field goal from Tech’s own 28-yard line. This was
indeed a feat when such men as Strupper, Guyon, Fincher, Hill, and Harlan were endeavoring to block that kick. His
brilliant broken field running was noticed by the coaches of the teams Davidson played that fall, and time and again
he was called on to try for point after touchdown. During that year Davidson conquered such teams as Furman, Auburn,
V. M. I., and Clemson. In all of these games and others, Buck Flowers shone as a star of the
first magnitude. Another remarkable fact was that although Flowers carried the ball more than any other player on Davidson's team,
he played the entire season without a single injury. “Buck” earned his place in the ‘Wildcat Hall of Fame” and
though he left Davidson, it was here that he first gained recognition. His deeds performed here will be handed down
as those of a great man on a great team.

THE VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE

Archie Reeves, a former Davidson student, now at Georgia Tech, holds the record for the course, having made it in
31 strokes, but the performance of “Buster” Gray, of the class of ’25, at the fifth hole, “outshines” that of
Reeves, and now the only remaining memory we have of Buster is covered by the green of hole five.

Back in 1914, after the water had all been drained off and a fertile meadow appeared, a golf course movement
was started by Dr. Arbuckle, and due to him it has grown into what it is now.

PROGRAMME
Oct. 7-8 --- Constance Talmadge in “Her Night of Romance.”
Mrs. Martha Hamilton gave a party Thursday evening, September 24th, in honor of Miss Ellen Black. Miss Black returned Monday
to her training course in the Presbyterian Hospital, New York City.
Oct. 9-10 --- Douglas Fairbanks in “Thief of Bagdad.”
Miss Mary Richards spent the weekend with her parents, Dr. and Mrs. C. M. Richards. Miss Richards is a teacher
in the High School of Mebane, N. C.
Oct. 12-13 --- “Tongues of Flame,” a wonderful picture. Also Pathe News No. 76
Oct. 14-15 --- “One Night in Rome.”

COMPARE THE SCORES
1908—Davidson 31, Wake Forest
1910—Davidson 32, Wake Forest
1912—Davidson 13, Wake Forest
1913—Davidson 6, Wake Forest
1914—Davidson 7, Wake Forest
1915—Davidson 21, Wake Forest
1917—Davidson 72, Wake Forest
1919—Davidson 21, Wake Forest
1920—Davidson 27, Wake Forest
1921—Davidson 7, Wake Forest
1922—Davidson 6, Wake Forest
1923—Davidson 0, Wake Forest
1924—No Game.
1925—Davidson ?, Wake Forest ?

Oct. 16-17 --- “Stop Flirting,” a refreshing, vivacious, wholesome comedy. Comedy or Pathe News reels are run with all pictures.

WE CARRY A COMPLETE LINE OF
Shirts, Hosiery, Pajamas and Shoes, everything for Men’s Wear
COME IN AND GIVE US A TRIAL
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
(DAVIDSON’S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

WHEN IN MOORESVILLE MAKE GOODMAN'S YOUR HEADQUARTERS
ALWAYS A GOOD LINE OF STATIONERY

MANHOOD THEME OF FORCEFUL TALK
(Continued from page 1)

crucial test—the reserves that decide the way the battle shall go.”

In a striking manner, Bishop pictured a group of boys discussing the selection of a leader. The boys discussed the
various attributes of leadership to be found in those to be considered, and in each case was presented some shortcoming
in character that eliminated those under discussion, one after the other, from the honored place. Finally, one was chosen as
leader, the choice resting on his character of true, faithful, sympathetic qualities. “As campus leaders are selected in that way,
in life in the small, so are community leaders in the later life chosen according to character. The tragedyOf lives
without the highest attributes of character was brought before the minds of the students in a manner which impressed upon
them the importance of those highest traits. Edgar Allen Poe, the great intellect, the wonderful poet, was considered. Selections from
"The Raven" and "The Bells" were read, showing the unsurpassed ability of the poet in the field of expression. Then
the tragedy of his life, as expressed in the word "nevermore," was made more vivid by contrast with the greatness
of the poet. Byron also in the field of literature was pictured as a great poet whose life was made
into a tragedy because of his character. In the realm of power, Napoleon and Washington were contrasted, the former showing
a life of selfishness and personal greed for power, and deserting his forces when they were hard-pressed, while Washington at
Valley Forge endured all the hardships that his men were forced to undergo, with no thought of personal comfort or
well-being. The picture of the duel between Hamilton and Burr, resulting in the death of Hamilton, and Burr's later days
spent in sorrow because of his deed of murder, was presented. "The way to a true, strong character," concluded the
doctor, "is long and hard—an uphill pull. But the result is glorious victory. Travel it, boys, at any cost." Much
was added to the impressiveness of the message by the personal feeling of attachment which Dr. Rondthaler made with his
audience. At the close of the service he shook the hands of the entire audience, and though a man far
along in years, his clasp showed the strength and virility of youth. Glen Eddington presided, reading the scripture for the
evening. Dr. J. M. McConnell introduced the speaker. Joe McConnell and Ernest Milton were called on to lead in prayer,
and T. T. Jones, C. J. Albright, and Proctor Thompson rendered special music. Billy Rice was pianist.

Davidson High Football Team Defeats Cornelius
Continuous Pounding and Flashy Runs Win for Plucky Little Eleven

Playing a brand of football as steady as effective, the Davidson High School opened its football season by conquering Cornelius
Friday afternoon at Cornelius. The score was 7 to 0. It was a good contest from start to finish, and
although the Davidsonians scored their lone touchdown in the second quarter, the spectators were held in suspense constantly as to
know how the game would finally end. The second quarter saw the local boys begin to march down the field,
which ended only when Williams carried the oval over the last white line. In the second half Cornelius tightened up
and their offense became more effective. One gain after another carried the ball to Davidson's four-yard line. Here the town
boys made a determined stand, and their line held for four downs. Cornelius had the ball on her opponents’ eight-yard
line when the final whistle blew. The Cornelians resorted to trick plays and forward passes in the last period in
the vain hope that they might score. The local boys have a fairly good team which should develop into a
powerful eleven. Last Friday they played straight and steady football relying on a continuous pounding to win.

During the summer Mr. T. E. Lothery built a new home on South Main Street next to the Phi Gam
Hall. Mr. L. B. Crayton, popular manager of the Ford agency here, has recently moved into one of the new
bungalows on North Main Street.

HOW THEY STAND

By scoring three touchdowns against Guilford, and following these up by sending the extra point sailing between the goal posts
each time, Caldwell, Duke University’s star fullback, hopped into the lead in point of scoring for North Carolina football elevens
last week. Caldwell is far out in front, with a total of 21 points. Records of Tar Heel scorers follow:

| Touchdowns | Field Goals | Try for Pt. | Total |
| Caldwell, State | 3 | 0 | 3 | 21 |
| Overton, Dav. | 1 | 0 | 1 | 7 |
| Bohannon, Dav. | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Chakales, W.F. | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Black, Dav. | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| McComb, Dav. | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Grey, Dav. | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| W. Shuford, State | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Jennette, State | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Tuttle, Duke | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Settle, Duke | 1 | 0 | 0 | 6 |
| Laird, Dav. | 0 | 0 | 4 | 4 |
| Johnston, State | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |
| Bynum, State | 0 | 0 | 1 | 1 |

This cca 15 0 10 100

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
PHONES: Office, 5050; Residence, 1937.

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe

PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24
YELLOW CAB CO.
QUALITY SERVICE

The Premiere Cleaner and Presser
OUR WORK GUARANTEED TO PLEASE
CITY PRESSING CLUB
Davidson, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go.
Display Room every Friday 9:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M.
Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

GET IT AT
MILLER DRUG COMPANY
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
WHERE ALL THE YOUNG PEOPLE MEET
