THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

ALUMNI NOTE

Rev. J. T. Pharr, '12, and Rev. C. M. N. McDonald, '12, have recently conducted a very successful series of
evangelistic services in The Immanuel Presbyterian Church in Wilmington, N. C. “Tim” Pharr is the pastor of the Immanuel Church
and Ralph Clontz, '18, is the evangelist for Wilmington Presbytery.

L. B. Gibbs, '25, is at present a member of the Junior class at Columbia Seminary.

Leighton Choate, '16, will be married to Miss Ruth Crowell, daughter of Dr. and Mrs. Andrew Johnson Crowell, on Wednesday,
November 18th.

J. B. Sloan, '23, a student at Columbia Theological Seminary, is recovering from an operation for appendicitis.

DETAILED STORY OF GAME PLAYED ON WEARN FIELD

By Don Wharton

First Quarter

Grey kicked off to Palmer on Hampden-Sidney’s twelve-yard line, who returned twelve yards. Brisner punted forty yards. Leggette made three
yards over right tackle and then two over center. Grey punted thirty-two yards, the Davidson ends downing Brinser in his
tracks. Edmunds made three over center. Brinser punted thirty-three yards. Grey returned ten to the fifty-yard line. Grey got off
a quick punt for forty-nine yards, Pinkney covering on Hampden-Sidney’s one-yard line. Brinser punted to the fifty-yard line and was
spilled for no gain. Grey returned eighteen yards around right end. Pass to Pinkney from Grey was spoiled by Tiger
backs. Grey punted to Tiger Black netted no yards.

Leggette received on Davidson’s eighteen-yard line. Hendrix made six around left end. Grey made six more on the same play.
This was the second first down for Wildcats. Leggette slipped through center for five yards and a touchdown. Roberts spoiled
Laird’s place-kick.

Second Quarter

Hampden-Sidney’s ball, first down on their own forty-yard line. Davidson line held Palmer for 2 yards in two plays. Brinson
punted 32 yards to Grey who returned 10 yards. Davidson end was in motion, penalty five yards. Black made two
over tackle. Grey failed. Pass to Hendrix from Brinson, two over center. Grey punted seventy-one yards over the goal line.
Pinkney threw Palmer for a slight gain. Mitchell, a Charlotte boy, stopped Palmer for a 2-yard gain. Mitchell rushed Brinser’s
punt which went out on Hampden-Sidney’s 48-yard line. Hendrix drove around left end for five yards. Captain Dudley stopped Captain
Black over right guard. Coach Allen, hero of the last game, was sent in to try a drop-kick from the
forty-four-yard line. The kick went to the right of the goal posts, a little low.

Tiger ball on the twenty-yard line, Atkins slipped for six yards off left end. Black made three over center. Palmer
made two over center backing up the line with great power. Brinser punted 36 yards, Grey returning six to Davidson’s
six-yard line. Davidson was offside on the first play. Worden threw Grey for a two-yard loss. Hendrix caught a fifteen-yard
pass around left end, placing the ball on Hampden-Sidney’s forty-yard line. Harrison shot off right tackle for five yards and
then off left tackle for three. Captain Black made one over center. Harrison made eight and first down in a
quick play over left tackle. Grey carried the ball 3 yards off right tackle. Hendrix made one around right end.
A pass from Black failed. Davidson made first down on a pass to Pinkney. Harrison was thrown for a loss
on the fifteen-yard line. Hendrix made five off left tackle. Pass to Jim Hendrix failed as he went high in
the air to get it. Laird’s place kick was wild. Lyons made two yards over center as the half ended.
Score, Davidson 6, Hampden-Sidney 0; first downs Davidson five, H.-S. 5.

Third Quarter

Leggette returned the kickoff 23 yards to Davidson's 43-yard line. Leggette drove through left tackle for three; Hendrix re-Repeated for
same gain. Grey's pass was grounded. Grey punted 30 yards, Brinser returning three. Palmer made left tackle. Pass to Atkins
gained eighteen yards, placing the ball on Hampden-Sidney's 40-yard line. Brinser’s pass failed. Over right tackle. Pass failed and Brinser
punted to Grey, who returned the ball nine yards to Davidson's 29-yard line. Roberts stopped Hendrix for no gain around
left end. Grey punted 50 yards, Brinser returning eight. Palmer stopped Melton for gain. Palmer caught a pass from Brinser
for four yards. Atkins Brinser punted 46 yards, Grey returning sixteen to Davidson's 36-yard line, but Davidson was penalized five
yards, and the ball was given to Hampden-Sidney on their own 33-yard line. Atkins made a great driving end run
for twenty yards around the left side. Davidson again off-side. Palmer made three over center, carrying the ball to Davidson's
33-yard line, first down. Edmunds made one over center. Brinser piled through right tackle for four and then for two.
Palmer made first down through the center of the line. McConnell stopped Palmer on the next play for a small
gain. Atkins whisked around left end for five yards. Palmer made two as he carried the ball outside. Brinser-Atkins pass
good for five yards and first down on Davidson's six-yard line. Edmunds made three over center. Nisbet and Laws stopped
Palmer for no gain. Atkins made two over center. Davidson stiffened, but the ball went over by a few inches,
Atkins carrying it. Tom Baker saved the day for the Wildcats by blocking the place kick. Score, Davidson 6; Hampden-Sidney
6. Black returned kick-off eighteen yards to Davidson’s 38-yard line. Nisbet shot (Continued on page 8)

Grey punted 30 yards out. Edmunds made one over center. McCombs Attractive Speakers to Appear Before Y.M.C.A. Students to Benefit
by Hearing Some of Foremost Speakers in South in Coming Vesper Services

The Y. M. C. A. of Davidson College has been unusually successful this year. The progress which this organization has
been making thus far, and the interest which has been shown to make this progress possible, can be attributed in
large part to the quality of the speakers who have been coming to deliver addresses at the “Y" Vesper services.
J. M. Garrison has been wide awake on the job and not only has he gotten capable speakers thus far
but he has some of the very best scheduled for every Sunday evening for the rest of the year.

On next Sunday, Dr. C. W. Somerville will address the students. Dr. Somerville was pastor of the Westminster Presbyterian Church
of Memphis, Tenn. where he is both well-known and loved by the people there. This year, he is professor of
Bible in Queens College, Charlotte. Rev. Edgar Wood will meet with the Y. M. C. A. on the third Sunday
of this month. Rev. Mr. Wood is now pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Salisbury where he has shown
his worth as a real man and Christian worker. Dr. Joseph R. Sevier is another man who comes to Davidson
College with the highest of recommendations. He has shown himself to be a leader among men and it is with
pleasure that the students learn of his coming. He is president of the Fassifern School at Hendersonville, N.C., and will
be at Davidson on the last Sunday of this month.

For the first “Y" service in December, Rev. George H. Rogers will come to address the students. Rev. Mr. Rogers
is pastor of the St. Peters Episcopal Church of Charlotte. The students feel that he is their neighbor and will
be more than glad to have him with them. The last "Y" service before Christmas will be a musical program
altogether and there will be variety in that.

Attention of Davidson students is directed to the special prices now effective on our college stationery:

100 CALLING CARDS FOR FIFTY CENTS
100 LETTERHEADS AND ENVELOPES, ONE DOLLAR

B & R. STATIONERY CO.
BETHESDA, ILL.

At Westhampton College classes are conducted in Student Government for the benefit of the Freshmen. They are conducted by members
of the Student Council and upperclassmen. Instruction is given regarding the rules and regulations of the college to supplement the
information given in the Handbook of the Student Government. All Freshmen and new men are required to meet regularly with
the classes.—Yellow Jacket.

Mooresville Enterprise
MOOREVILLE, N.C.
Printed Every Thursday.
Job printing in all commercial lines.
Advertising rates and job work furnished on application.

LET US FIX YOU FOR THAT HUNT
We have a good line of shotguns to sell or to rent. Rates $1.00 per day. Also dependable shells.
MOORESVILLE BICYCLE SHOP, Mooresville, N.C.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE
We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size
The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N.C.
R. A. DUNN, President
I. W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
C. W. JOHNSTON, Vice-President
J. B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer
A. T. SUMMEY, Vice-President
T.S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

It is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times.
LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N.C.
Next to Postal Telegraph
P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
STATESVILLE, N.C.
