THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 1, 1925

Exhibits at Carolinas Exposition are Viewed by Many Davidson Men

Special Interest Centers About Exhibit of North Carolina State College

Thousands who have seen the Carolinas Exposition, which has been in Charlotte since September 21st, pronounce the exhibits more choice
than those of any of the previous years, and many who have seen the fabric shows in New York say
that the Carolinas Exposition is far ahead of them. A large exhibition hall is filled from end to end with
brilliant displays of cotton, linen, silk, and fiber silk materials. The variety of style and color is equal to that
of a Parisian salon of fashion. Several fashion shows have been conducted by the leading business firms of Charlotte, using
as their models some of the most popular young people of that city. The state textile department from N. C.
State College has an excellent display in designs and workmanship which denotes much skill and genius.

Many Davidson students have been attracted to Charlotte by the exposition and most especially by the appearance of Miss Lois
Wilson, popular screen star, on last Friday and Saturday. Miss Wilson appeared at the concert last Friday night and later
at the ball given in her honor. She was presented to the enthusiastic crowd of admirers which formed her audience,
by ex-Governor Morrison, after which she made a brief talk, relating how she had declined the invitation before she had
learned where the exposition was to be held. Upon learning that it was to be in Charlotte she had changed
her attitude to one of eagerness. Miss Wilson added that she was always ready to visit any place south of
the Mason and Dixon line, for she herself was a true Southerner.

The spacious music room of the exposition building was filled to capacity, with several hundred men, women, and children standing
in the aisles, doors, and other available spaces, all anxious to catch a glimpse of the popular and charming actress.
The men were eager to see her just for the sake of seeing, but the ladies had a deeper intent
in mind. No sooner had she stepped from behind the curtain than scores of the latter sex sprang from their
seats in a frantic effort to see the style, color, material, and length of the gown worn by the famous
star. While this scene was taking place in the auditorium, several hefty policemen were contending with the large crowd of
visitors below. Some had come for miles for the purpose of viewing the heroine of the screen, only to find
that they had been too long on the road and that the doors were all closed to further entrance. Various
ejaculations from irritated grown-ups, cries of “I’ve lost my mamma” from children, and winsome flirtations from presuming “Misses,” were all
to no avail in gaining entrance to the much-coveted upper floor. Miss Wilson appeared at the 5:00 o'clock show at
the Imperial on Saturday afternoon, after which she left for the Long Island studios, where she is at work on
her new picture, “Irish Luck.”

QUIPS AND CRANKS STAFF
(Continued from page 1)

E. K. Regen has been added to the staff as the photographic editor. He will have charge of taking the
pictures of individuals and of the campus that are to appear in the annual. The staff has experienced a great
loss in that Kenneth Harris has left to attend an art school in the North. Kenneth had charge of the
art department last year and did such excellent work that his place will be hard to fill. However, George Shaddock,
who has charge this year, expects to uncover some good material among the members of the new class.

The “Quips and Cranks” is the book published annually by the Senior class. It contains information about the classes, fraternities,
athletics, musical and literary organizations, and various other matters of interest in connection with college life. Any suggestions or aid
from the student body will be appreciated, as the book is a student publication and should be representative of the
whole college. Business Manager Deck sends out a call to the men of the new class. Any that have spare
time and are willing to help can do so in the new office as solicitors or filers. The same companies
will have charge of the publication this year as last. The Benson Company, of Nashville, will print and bind the
book; Jahn and Ollier, of Chicago, will do the engraving; the White Studios, of New York, will make the class
pictures; and the Molloy Company will furnish the covers.

Magazine Editors Plan First Issue

Plans for the coming year for the Davidson College Magazine were announced this week by Editor-in-chief C. F. Monk. Although
the staff of the magazine has not had time to fully organize their several departments, it is an assured fact
that this representation of the literary talent of the Davidson student body is going to have one of its most
successful years. Last year the Anthology issue was the only attempt of the writers of the school, but plans have
thus far been formulated to place before the public this season four issues that will in every way fill the
need that so many of the students have felt.

The heads of the different departments as announced are: R. B. Parker, in charge of all the essays; Wood Brown,
chief of the short story section; J. H. Calligan, who has had several of his poems printed in representative nation-wide
periodicals, as the poetry editor; and Warren Ogden is to conduct the Caps and Bells section of the magazine. Ogden
promises to place before the readers a high type of wit.

Interviewing these department heads one note of appeal was sounded by all. They request the student body to place in
their hands just as soon as possible such material that they have on hand. Tentative plans as stated by the
editor-in-chief include the issuing of the first copy of the magazine about Thanksgiving day, and then to put out three
issues after Christmas. The issues that are to appear after the holidays will have a specialty. That is, one number
will be devoted to poetry, one to essays, and the other to short stories. Humor is to be placed in
proportion in all of the issues.

Calligan, in stating the plans for his department, said as most college poetry is short and catching to the eye,
that magazines are sometimes judged by the poems that are published. He wants the men to get away from the
catalogue style of writing and to be original in every possible way. In this section no certain school of poetry
is to be stressed, but lyrical poems, due to their lasting value, will be in more demand.

As to the talent among the essayists here at Davidson, Parker stated that it is of the very best. Some
of the essays that were in the issue of the magazine of last year were brilliant in both style and
subject matter, and as most of the authors of these are still in school the prospects in this field are
almost unlimited. Expected to have material in are: Don Wharton, “Buck” Shaw, S. W. Brown, T. C. Barr, W. S.
Woods, and R. W. Graves.

Wood Brown stated that in his, the short story department, it was impossible to predict as to what sort of
stories he would have to offer for it is necessary to wait for the men to turn in their material.
However, in most of the college magazines it is the tendency of the day to get away from the action
story and bear more heavily on the psychological type. The followers of Poe, or rather the writers of the “horror”
style of stories are gradually passing.out. Warren Ogden wants to do away as much as possible with the two-line type
of joke and to stop making the humorous department merely a reprint of College Humor and other such magazines. As
to the material that is desired, humorous poetry, short stories, and funny sketches are to be in great demand. The
assistants in the various departments that have been selected are Fred Smith, in the poetry section; Hayden Hollingsworth, to help
Parker; and H. C. Lawson is the assistant short story editor. The staff of the Magazine is very interested in
their work and want to place before the students the best that is possible, but they are powerless to do
a thing unless the men of the school back them up to the fullest degree.

HAMILTON BOULWARE ILL

Friends on the Hill of Hamilton Boulware, otherwise known to his friends as “Ham,” will be glad to know that
he is getting along nicely from a recent operation for appendicitis at City Hospital, in his hometown, Lakeland, Fla. Ham
was taken ill about two weeks ago, and, upon the advice of the college physician, he immediately left for his
home, and there he entered the hospital. Under the influence of the balmy Florida air, a quick recovery is assured
Ham, and he will be gladly welcomed back to the Hill by his many friends.

Buy a box of cough drops before going to Charlotte, for if you yell as much as you ought to
do, they’ll come in handy. We're going to be behind the team, and no matter whether they are defeated or
not, we will see that no separation sets in. Among the men that are ex- know that they did their
best.

Sappenfield Gradually Recovering from Hurts Received in Elon Game

Popular Quarterback Will be Allowed to Receive Visitors in a Few Days

The latest reports concerning the condition of “Nick” Sappenfield, Wildcat quarterback, who suffered a compound fracture of the bone in
his left leg in the Elon game, indicate that he is getting on as well as can be expected at
this time. His injury causes him little pain, and he seems to be in good spirits. The injury proved to
be more serious than it was at first thought, and it was not until last Saturday that the bone was
permanently set. This delay was necessary in order to guard against infection of the wound. The condition of his leg
remained favorable on Monday and the plaster cast was applied, so it is hoped that the worst is over now
and it will only be a matter of time until “Nick” can be back upon the campus. A large number
of students have called to see him while in Charlotte, but have not been permitted to see him on account
of his nervous condition. His family are with him, and a few visitors have been admitted from time to time.
Dr. Martin went in to see him last Thursday and gave a favorable report of his condition to the student
body at chapel Friday morning. It is thought that he will be able to receive visitors in a few days.
He is attended by two able physicians, one of whom, Dr. Gibbons, is a Davidson graduate. Both physicians have shown
special interest in the case.

Automobile Crash Leads to Arrests

Much excitement was created here late Saturday afternoon after the Wofford game when two automobiles collided in a disastrous accident
on the main street of Davidson. A Ford roadster, occupied by Bob Wall, his brother, and Fred Miller, of Mooresville,
struck a Ford touring car in which were Marvin Reed, Urey, and Brown. The accident occurred in front of the
residence of Mrs. S. A. Thompson, on Main street. The roadster was entirely at fault, according to witnesses, and was
approaching from the north on the wrong side of the road. It struck the touring car, which had pulled as
far to the left side of the road as the stone wall on the campus would permit. The touring car
was thrown across the dash by the force of the impact. Soon after the crash, a large crowd gathered at
the scene of the accident. None of the occupants were seriously hurt, although two were thrown from the car by
the force of the crash. The driver of the roadster, who was supposedly at fault, was incarcerated in the jail
at Charlotte on the charge of driving a car on the state highway while intoxicated. It is said that Bob
Wall, the driver, is already under suspended sentence for a similar accident in Iredell county.

FAMOUS DOWNS

Hand me Hits but, never out. with Wake Forest town.

ONE HUNDRED CANDIDATES (Continued from page 1)

of the symphony orchestra, with P. B. Fry as pianist, and B. T. Crayton and M. C. Davis will jointly
lead the jazz orchestra, with J. G. Johnson as pianist. Special stress will be laid on the jazz orchestra and
the prospects point toward an unusually good one. The program this season will be a little shorter than heretofore and
an effort will be made to put more life and pep into it. It will include choruses, solos, selections by
the jazz and symphony orchestra and songs by two quartets. The first of these quartets will probably be composed of
Lockhart, Wilson, Lowrance, and Calhoun, and the second of Greene, McClain, Foster, and Barr. A 10 days’ trip through South
Carolina and Georgia is planned to begin the last of February. Dates have been written for and if the manager,
Frank Hudson, is successful the Glee Club will give entertainments in the following towns, on this trip: Gastonia, N. C.,
Spartanburg, S. C., Greenville, S. C., or Gainesville, Ga., Decatur, Ga., Atlanta, Ga., Milledgeville, Ga., Augusta, Ga., Columbia, S. C.,
and Rock Hill, S. C. In addition to this main trip the club will probably take weekend trips to Queens
College, Salem College and to nearby towns. The Glee Club plans to sponsor two enterprises besides the regular program: Stunt
Night and a mandolin and guitar club. Stunt Night has in former years been probably the best patronized and most
popular entertainment given before the students. It will include music of all kinds, plays, and four stunts, one given by
each class.

THE STAFF OF LIFE

“Bread! Bread! Bread!” cried the hero, and the curtain came down with a roll. Since its inception the General Electric
Company has pioneered in the various fields of applied electricity. Today G-E engineers are cooperating with various State agricultural committees
in the study of farm and rural electrification. These committees include members of the agricultural college faculties. A new series
of G-E advertisements showing what electricity is doing in many fields will be sent on request. Ask for Booklet GEK-1.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

When rural service lines bring electricity to the farmer’s door, many of his labor troubles are at an end. Motors,
large and small, will do the many chores of farm and farmhouse for a few cents per day.

The Farm Electrical

Of the six and a half million farm homes in this country, only half a million have electricity. Still, the
advantages of electricity are widely known. But there is more to farm electrification than the installation of motors, lights, and
heaters. Current must be brought to the farm, and that means many miles of transmission line, supporting poles, transformers, and
adequate generating equipment. Slowly but surely the electrification of American farms is taking place. As farmers learn how to use
electricity, rural service lines reach out farther and farther into open country. Six million farms to be electrified! Here is
a vast and virgin field for the application of electricity, with countless opportunities for college-trained men in the technical and
commercial phases of this undertaking. And for the agricultural college student and others planning a future life in rural sections,
it means a better, bigger, happier lifetime now in the making.
