THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding will entertain at a banquet on Thursday evening at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. The guests will be faculty members and wives, and members of the Thelemite and Book-lovers’ Clubs.

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery
Best Shoe Shop in Town
Shoes Repaired While U Wait
W. W. GIBSON, Prop.
Davidson, N. C.

The Blue Front Store
Feeds Fancy Groceries
H. M. JOHNSTON
PHONE 20

WRIGLEY'S after every meal
Cleanses mouth and teeth and aids digestion. Relieves that overeaten feeling and acid mouth. Its l-a-s-t-i-n-g flavor satisfies the craving for sweets. Wrigley’s is double value in the benefit and pleasure it provides. Sealed in its Purity Pack.

Sim Bryant is so dumb he thinks a baseball fan is a strike-out.

There was a young feller named Vaughn,
Who was proud of his muscle and brawn;
But the father of she
Got angry at he
And kicked Vaughn all over the lawn.

A handsome young Junior named Long,
Heard that wine, women and song,
Would drive one to hell,
And so he said, “Well
I'll quit singing—I’d hate to go wrong.”

There is a cheer-leader named Sim
Who is full of pep, vigor, and vim—
Some girls saw his wigglin’,
And started to gigglin’,
And said, “Bad corn likka has surely ruined him.”

No, But You Are
Member of the Court of Control: “I don’t ever expect to see you on the campus again.”
Freshman: “What’s the persecuted matter? Are you leaving school?”

Tourist (passing through): “Has this school an endowment?”
Hudgins: “Not yet, but they are going to build one behind the armory as soon as Chambers is finished.”

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S & W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

She: “Why did you turn out the lights?”
He: “I feel better in the dark.”

On returning to school after the holidays, McCallum, the well-known shiek, found the following telegram waiting for him: “Am thinking about you. Letter follows. Love, Carroll.” McCallum wired back: “Am not capable of thinking, but I love you, too. Picture-postcard follows. B.”

Hollywood's latest jazzivator: “I call my knees imagination, ’cause that’s what my girl sits on.”

H. L. Shelby had such a hot date during the Christmas holidays that he burned a hole in his Sunday go-to-meeting coat.

Oh You Gladney!
“Sir, would you pay five dollars to bury a saxophone player?”
“Here’s thirty dollars. Bury six of them.”

is the place to buy your
Guns
Shells
Puttees
Basket Ball Goods
Athletic Equipment
Complete Line Columbia Bicycles
D & M Sweaters (best made)

The following testimonials were clipped from the Gastonia Gazette, the Mooresville Mistake, and the Literary Indigestion:

* * *
For the first three months I had a great deal of trouble passing my work at Davidson College. Not knowing what course to pursue I thought I would seek advice. But my best friend would not tell me, the faculty shunned me as if I were a Sophomore, and I realized it was something insidious. Then kind providence led me to your wonderful remedy. After taking Listerine I have passed all of my work, and it is to your life-saving preparation that I owe my election to Phi Beta Kappa.
Stud Trawizk
(Better known as Cyclone—they put a Cyclone fence around the athletic field to keep me out).

* * *
For years I had been an invalid, I could not finish my day’s work, had weak spells and often had pains in the back. I was told by the college physician that I could never finish my college work. Then a dear friend told me about your wonderful vegetable compound. I took 12 bottles on trial, and ever since I have felt like sweet sixteen. Many thanks, Lydia. With best wishes for your success,
Wood Brown,
(I live in Louisiana, in a very isolated place where there are no papers, so please post some ads on our fence. If you want my picture I will send you a gross).

* * *
When I was a youth I was given up for dead, my people were very distressed; the doctor said I was the nearest approach to a skeleton they had seen. My life hung on a thread. Years passed. I had not died, but was nearly dead; I often cried all night in my misery for I had wanted to be a fat man in a circus but my youthful ambition could not be realized. Then by chance a circular fell into my hands. It was like manna to me, and I learned of your S. S. S. compound. I took three bottles and I now weigh 210 pounds (Eskimo weights used as the English scales would not hold me). I have signed a contract with one of the great shows and as soon as I get my diploma (sometime) I will take my place.As waterboy to the elephants and fat man in spare time. Your little fat boy, Stogie Montgomery, Esq. (My people called me Stogie because I used to look like a stogie cigar. Is that not quaint?)

I realized that I could never become a great orator like Bob LaFollette (people say I look just like him) for my skin was sallow, had liver spots on it, and pimples. People did not turn around in the street to look at me, the babies did not love to caress my cheeks; something had to be done, as my life was a failure. With my youthful hope of becoming an orator blasted, I took up palmistry as I could wear a turban and veil and people could not see my visage. One day while gazing into the crystal I saw myself in an ad; below my picture was this slogan, “Keep that School Girl Complexion.” Olive soap. Now my skin has the glow of youth and the pink of a peach.

Lovingly,
A. H. Hollingsworth.
(I live in Atlanta but am an American citizen and have worn shoes since coming to this civilized country.)

Although I was from Virginia I was unable to wear a dress suit with ease; I always tried to put my hands in my pockets; I didn’t know how to order a ham sandwich, how to walk down the street with two women, how to accept an invitation to a funeral or what to say when I spilled coffee in a woman’s lap. I never knew what was wrong in the picture; I didn’t know which fork to take the celery with. Then I discovered your Book of Etiquette. My timidity was gone; I was offered a place as fashion model in a great tailor shop. Am now a member of Phi Beta Kappa and am often invited to corn shuckings and log rollings in the virgin forests of my native state.

Reflectively (lesson twelve),
Alvin Rowe.
(Even though I am from Virginia I can speak English).

I had held a position as office boy on my home paper, the Winston-Salem Bugle, but had not been able to advance; the manager’s chair was often vacant, but I did not have push and vim to get it. I lacked push and go; I could not hold people in a conversation; I could not draw people to me. At the monthly meeting of the office boys union I never could get my points over. I was inefficient and my salary had not been increased for years. I felt that I was a failure. Then I clipped the coupon and signed the dotted line. The mails were all too slow, but at last I got your booklet, telling me how to develop my latent personality and to increase my popularity and personal efficiency.

Now I am as popular as corn likker; I often lead the meetings of the Board of Directors of the Bank of Mount-Mourne; I am often complimented on my magnetic personality, my vim, my push and go. I attribute it to your Pelmanism course.

Magnetically yours,
Okey J. Allison.
(I am called OK. as I am all right).
P. S. I often write ads and pose for toothpaste ads, as my teeth look so attractive when I sing. I can sing.

WILDCAT GRAPPLERS
(Continued from page 1)

More men come out, especially in the heavyweight and light-heavyweight classes. This year's schedule is a hard one, and will show the true ability of the team. In addition to the meet with Concord, a meet may be held with either Kannapolis or Charlotte “Y” before examinations. In February four teams will be met, all of whom are representative of the South and East. The schedule is as follows:

February 5th—N. C. State at Raleigh.
February 7th—Navy at Annapolis.
February 14th—V. P. I. at Davidson.
February 21st—Carolina at Davidson.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Dry Cleaning Pressing
NEW PLANT
SLOAN’S CLEANERS & DYERS
STATESVILLE, N. C.
Dyeing Repairing
PROMPT SERVICE

WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers In Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls
Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs
Draperies and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.