iad > z ° . ; oe THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925 ’ — <== PT d . getting hot again, so I ran out and hollered “Fire, Fire!” just as loud as I could, and some fellers walked up to me and said, U S NAVY BAND “Freshman you had better stop hollering at those girls.” Now Pa there was no girls by-the-Side-of-the-Road of Greensboro, around there that I could see. But I went and Mrs. E. Fairley Murray, died and will take up his duties as pastor Cit Auditorium Charlotte on back to my room, and then my roommate Monday afternoon, October 12th, at 3. there next April. came in and told me that that thing was a o'clock at the home of his parents, fol- Chalmers served as supply pastor at radiator. It sure is a funny one, cause it lowing a brief illness with pneumonia. the Church-by-the-Side-of-the-Road last AFTERNOON 3:00 O’CLOCK, EVENING 8:15 don't look like the radiator on Parson Mr. Murray was stricken on Saturday, summer and was called at that time to fill Shaw’s Ford. It looks more like a small October 10th, and his illness was so the pulpit but refused in order to finish paling fence to me. serious that death followed on Monday his course at Union Seminary at Rich- TUESDAY, OCT. 27th Well I got to quit and go to bed as it is though he had been in good health pre- mond, Va., where he is at present. Later nearly nine o'clock. I will write you soon vious to the attack. he was called again and accepted with and tell you about the electric lights that run Funeral services were conducted Tues- the condition that he be allowed to con- Special price of 50 cents to all students for the afternoon con- without kerosene, and the post office where day afternoon at his home, his pastor, tinue his studies until next spring when cert. No reserved seats: they have real mail boxes out in front, Rev. G. F. Kirkpatrick, having charge he will finish at the seminary. fifty cents, too. Your son, Hiram. of the service, and being assisted by Rev. Both at Davidson and the Seminary Night prices, $1.00, $1.50 and reserved seats, $2.00. Auspices V. R. Gaston, of Aberdeen and Rev. J. M. Chalmers stood at the head of his class of Kiwanis Club. Proceeds to charity. Ticket sale limited to fifteen Arnette of Wagram. The interment was and was very prominent in the work of Fresh Country Vegetables in the family plot at Spring Hill ceme- student activities. He is a born leader hundred for each concert. For tickets communicate with tery. An unusually large number of and is especially suited to work among ALISTER CARSON MGR people attended the funeral. the young people in religious work. Mc 13 ° Staple and Fancy Groceries He was 22 years of age, being the oldest son of O. M. Brown, of the Class of ' and INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. Fellows, see us for replenishing a large family. He spent two years at Miss Marguerite Davis were married at your Fraternity House larders Davidson and was highly esteemed by the First Presbyterian Church, of Win Insurance Dept. CHARLOTTE, N. C. his classmates. He was greatly loved ston-Salem, N.C. on the twenty-ninth of BARNETT AND COMPANY Davidson, N. C. ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW ---AT THE--- Victory THEATRE MOORESVILLE - - - N.C. Weekly Programme Wed. and Thurs., Oct. 21-22--- The White Desert, with Claire Windsor, Pat O’Malley. Fri. and Sat., Oct. 23-24---The Crimson Runner, with Priscilla Dean. Mon. and Tues., Oct. 19-20---The Golden Bed, a Cecil B. DeMille production. Screen play by Jeanie Macpherson, with Rod La Rocque, Vera Reynolds, Lillian Rich, Warner Baxter, Theodore Kosloff and Julia Faye. Wed., Oct. 28---His Darker Self, with Lloyd Hamilton. Oct. 29-30---Yolanda, with Marion Davies. Pathe news and comedy reels run with all pictures. We appreciate your patronage. with the hope that Thursday night will It is said August, 1925. that death chooses a shining mark and surely nowhere in Scotland County could there be found a finer, a more noble and more splendid young man than was Johnson Murray. Mr. and Mrs. Brown spent their honeymoon in the mountains near Asheville, Dwight Moody Chalmers, prominent N.C. Davidson man in the Class of 1920, and Mrs. Brown is teacher of Latin in Secretary of the Young Men's Christian Association Salem Academy, while Mr. Brown is study- ing for his Master’s Degree at the Uni- versity of North Carolina here later, has accepted a call from the congregation of the Church- president; W. H. Covington, vice-presi- dent; Rod McCrae, secretary; R. E. Park- er, first critic; Roland Simms, second McCrae,Supervisor Camper O'Neal, second supervisor, D.D. Hi Stuart is the three Literary Societies Chritigues. The Literary Societies have gotten down to work now and are making definite plans for the term's work. They are also making a greater effort this fall to revive interest in the work of the societies and to obtain for them the place of recognition among the student organizations that they deserve.

The Philanthropic Society has received an unusually large number of new members this fall, having taken in about 30 Freshmen and eight upperclassmen. They have several variations in their programs to make them more interesting. For ten minutes at the meeting, a parliamentary drill is held to train the members in the use of parliamentary rules of order. Also, one program is left open and some member is allowed to volunteer to take part with a dialogue, story, or some form of entertainment.

The Metrophilian and Eumenean Societies, which have their meetings on Tuesday and Thursday nights, have changed their time of meeting to Thursday night. This change was made in order that all of the societies may meet on the same night and be recognized generally as “Literary Society Night,” and that other meetings will not be made in conflict with the society meetings. The attendance in the past has been greatly hindered on account of other meetings arranged for the same time as Literary Societies.

The Eumenean Society is revising its constitution. One of the proposed changes is the having of two terms per year instead of three, and in this way avoiding an interruption of the work of the society by changing officers. A feed will be held one week from today for the purpose of getting all of the members together, the old members, and any others who are interested in the work of the society and want to join. If it should be decided not to reduce the number of terms, new officers for the second term will be elected tonight.

The Eumenean Freshman Society meets separately from the regular society in the fall in order that its members may get some practice in speaking before meeting with the upperclassmen. The Freshman Society has been having some splendid programs and its members show interest in the work. At the last meeting, Paul Gates was elected secretary of the Freshman Society.

The Fresh-Soph and Junior-Senior intersociety debates will be held this year as well as the Fresh-Soph declamation contest. The Forensic Council is planning to have four intercollege debates during the college year, two this fall and two next spring. Several of our usual debaters graduated last year, so it is hoped that everybody interested in debating will go out for these debates this year.

Edgar A. Guest reveals himself in a most favorable light in his pertinent thesis on “What My Religion Means to Me,” which is featured in “The American” for September. Mr. Guest deserts the ordinary plagiarism and drabbiness so evident in his didactic poetry and treats religion in a surprisingly broad and practical way.

“It’s all-off for the night,” she cried as she wiped her face with a towel.

Syrcatstible. That’s a big word, but it describes the new “Jazz-Bo Cave Man” oxford. They’re particularly made for young bucks of college age. They’re made of light tan imported calfskin with an extremely broad toe---a necessary supplement to wide trousers. And the famous Barbour welt prevents them from absorbing moisture. A likeable pair of “dogs,” we'll say. SEVEN DOLLARS.

MELLON’S “EVERYTHING MUSICAL” PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS, VICTROLAS, RECORDS AND ROLLS. Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments, SHEET MUSIC. OLDEST IN THE STATE. ANDREW MUSIC STORE, 213 N. Tryon St.

ARE YOU HUNGRY? WE HAVE FRESH Sandwiches, Milk, Fruits, Candy, Cigarettes, etc. COME IN AND EAT. The Student’s Store. “It’s yours, why not patronize it?”