~ — THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 22, 1925 ———— 

MINUTE SURVEY 
(Continued from page 1)

large extent by members of the faculty and even better than the institution which has the officers aside from the faculty. He made certain suggestions as to improvement of the college which will be carried out at the earliest possible date. Dr. Kelly, a graduate from Columbia University, and specializing in education, is widely known in educational circles as a teacher, but is known more in his connection and interest with various colleges and universities of the country.

Mrs. J. P. Allison, of Concord, N. C., was the guest of her nieces, the Misses Young, of Davidson, for the weekend.

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

HUNGRY??
Home Cooked.
“Those tasty eats and delicious Punch for feeds and parties
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie’s) TEA ROOM

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Davidson Yearlings Are Defeated by P. C. Fresh
Bluestocking Rats Make Lone Touchdown on Series of Successful Cross-Bucks

Davidson Fresh had held sway for the first half, the Presbyterian College Freshmen from Clinton pushed across a lone touchdown and kicked goal a few seconds afterward for the only scoring of the afternoon, in their annual clash here last Friday afternoon. Coming back in the third quarter, after being outplayed in the first half, the Fresh from Clinton opened up with a series of cross-bucks that carried the ball from their 47-yard line across the goal line. The feature run of this drive was made by Hogref, for 33 yards. The game was as close as the score indicates, Davidson having the edge in the first half, and P. C. the advantage in the second half. Davidson made nine first downs, while P. C. made thirteen, one of these being made on an off-side penalty by Davidson. Davidson had four good chances to score in the first half, each time losing the ball on downs, three times within the 20-yard line. Once they lost the ball on the 25-yard line. A place-kick in the half also failed, the ball pedalling short by inches, and after this the P. C. line was never in danger. P. C. did not get into Davidson territory during the first half, except during the first minute of play, when Myers fumbled the kick-off, which was recovered by P. C. The ball very seldom got beyond the 45-yard line.

There was an entirely different story about the last half, however. Davidson could not gain consistently, and P. C. bewildered Davidson with their cross-bucks, which seemed to puzzle the Davidson forwards during the whole game. Consistent gains of four, five, and six yards were made.

(Continued on page 8)

GRID STANDINGS
Team, Won, Lost, Pct
Davidson 4 0 1.000
Wake Forest 2 0 1.000
Carolina 3 1 .750
Lenoir 2 2 .500
Duke 2 2 .500
N. C. State 1 2 .333
Elon 1 3 .250
Guilford 0 3 .000

THE GAS BAG, $8.00
“YES, WE ARE C’LLEGIATE”
“C’llegiate, C’llegiate, Yes, we are C’llegiate---”
Well, this Gas Bag shoe is for the boys who dress the part of Collegians. Wide toe, short vamp, smart novelty pattern. In light mellow tan. Collegiate? Yes! $8
TATE-BROWN COMPANY
KEERANS & KING, Agents

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

Opening up in the third quarter after the P. C. made thirteen, one of these being made on an off-side penalty by Davidson.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

Furman next! We'd like to say, Furman next victory. But we'll only say, Furman next Saturday in Charlotte. It's going to be a great clash when the Purple Hurricane sweeps down Wearn Field and meets the Davidson Wildcat. Perhaps the Wildcats will react for that game, and will be worked up for the battle. They had a slump last Saturday. We're glad it came then and not this weekend. The players and fans were both disappointed, though. It was reported to the papers that P. C. had a surprise, but they evidently kept it—we didn’t see it.

Maybe one reason people were so disappointed generally over the game was because they were expecting too much. The game in Asheville last year with P. C. was a far better one.

Even with all of that, the Wildcats showed that they know how to come back in the last half when the occasion demands it.

We ought to have that special to Charlotte again. Of course, we realize that many of the students are going down in cars, but the mere fact that we can say that we have a special train sounds bigger and better. Then those who decided to go at the last minute will have a way to go.

Half the season is over and no defeat yet. If the Wildcats can win from Furman Saturday and receive no injuries, then it is a fairly safe bet that they will win from State the following week. State has a good club, even though Carolina did beat her, and may be primed for the tilt here, but then the Wildcats have the advantage of being on Richardson Field, and if they win the Furman game, then they will be thinking about thePerfect record that is already behind them. There ought to be a crowd of 6,000 people in Charlotte Saturday to see the game—if it is a pretty day. It at least is going to be a game to the Demon Deacon clash. Both teams of Furman and Wake Forest happen to be of the same denomination, and both times Presbyterians will be their opponents.

The tennis boys started off with a bang this year, completely sweeping the singles matches with Wake Forest here. Rain stopped the doubles matches. That was a good start for the racqueteers, and we might say for almost an entire new team. If Davidson can make a good record this year in tennis, these boys have several more years of good playing ahead of them, and by the time their Senior year comes around, someone of them ought to be able to cop a state championship title, even as Bradley and Price brought back to Davidson's campus.

Campus football has once more been started. The promulgator of this sport remains to be seen, as well as who will be the main sponsors for this season’s tactics. The Freshman team last Friday didn’t seem to have as much fight in them as they ought to have had. They will have a chance to come back against Furman this week and show what they can do.

There seems to be strong possibilities on the Freshman team, and it may be that they haven't struck their stride. More teamwork seems to be necessary. They did outplay P. C. Freshmen in the first half but let the Blue Stocking colts carry them along in the last two periods. The Juniors are going to have a lot to say about who wins the class championship. They have some steady and hard players on the team.

Pee Wee Simpson last year was the star in the firmament, accounting for almost half of his team’s points, dribbling well and guarding as if he had been playing varsity ball. The work of Captain Simpson also deserves comment.

Seniors Defeat Juniors in Initial Cage Battle - Class Basketball Season Open as Seniors Win Exciting Contest From Juniors

Opening the class basketball season in a blaze of speed, the Seniors defeated the Juniors 24 to 20. This hectic contest was played in the gym last Thursday night. The game started off with a bang, both teams fighting from the very first. First one team went into the lead and then the trailing one came from behind to knot the score. At the halfway mark, the men of '26 were leading by the small margin of four points. The younger brothers of the Seniors had been leading for some time but they could not stand the pace set by the fleeting Huie and Cook.

The stars of the fray are hard to enumerate, for every member of both teams played a hard, consistent game. It would be safe to give only the high scorers and to mention the one outstanding man on each team. Lawson, playing at forward, racked up three field goals and one foul during the time that he was in the game. Cook, Senior center, followed close behind with six points, and he played a remarkably consistent game, covering the floor like a veteran. Calhoun shone brighter than all the other '27 players. He accounted for almost half of his team’s points, dribbling well and guarding as if he had been playing varsity ball. The work of Captain Simpson also deserves comment. The line-up and summary follow:

Senior - Position - Junior
Huie (6) - RF - Calhoun (8)
Lawson (7) - LF - Goodykoontz (7)
Cook (6) - C - Vaughn
Jett (0) - RG - Wharton (6)
Coltrane (0) - LG - Wharton (6)

Substitutions — Seniors: Coltrane for Lawson, Moore (4) for Huie, Lawson for Coltrane. Juniors: Hudgins (2) for Wharton. Referee, Hewlette.

For many years it was a custom at Davidson to have a fall baseball game between the Freshman and Sophomore classes, but for the last two seasons, this has been neglected. An agitation was started a short time ago to revive this. We believe that it would do a lot of good, and certainly it can’t do any harm, to have this.

Mrs. Tom M. Griffith is at the Long Sanitorium, at Statesville, for a serious operation.

Columbia Theological Seminary

Columbia Theological Seminary is an approved Seminary for ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is the official Seminary for the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. The Faculty is composed of men who are chosen for pre-eminence:
1. In Christian Character
2. In Scholarship
3. In Approved Ability
4. As Moulders of Thought
5. As Leaders of Men

The student body is composed of picked men from the choicest Christian homes of the South. Their motives, ability, and character have been approved by their home church, Presbytery, and college. These young men come to the Seminary to receive special training for leadership in the most important sphere of human experience. Columbia Seminary offers to its students thorough training, sympathetic fellowship, helpful cooperation, practical experience, and a true conception of the meaning of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

WE SELL
18 East Trade St.
Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.