FOR A Pat AS DAVIDSON Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N.C. FEBRUARY 5, 1925 ONIAN Davidson

Dr. Oren Moore Talks of Service in His Address at Sunday Vesper Service

Dr. Oren Moore, prominent Charlotte physician, delivered a stirring address last Sunday evening at the “Y” vesper service on the
subject of Service. Dr. Moore is an alumnus of Davidson and expressed his appreciation for the opportunity of speaking to
the students. He began with the story of a traveler, who stopped at a wayside inn and was so pleased
with his surroundings that he forgot his journey and remained at the inn. A certain one came to him, saying,
“Thou, oh man, hast forgotten thy objective; thy journey was not to the inn, but through the inn.” Dr. Moore
stated that we are on our journey and at this stage of it we are trying to get an education.
All outside activities are merely inns, where we may stop for a while. The real objective is to get an
education for a particular thing, and that particular thing is service. “The main issue of life,” said the speaker, “is
service; service for men individually and in groups; service to humanity and to God.”

He continued by asking if there is a need for service in the world. Every day the cry comes to
us that the world needs something. “The need of the world,” he said, “is for Christlike service. Christlike service is
that which is unselfish, unmindful of reward and graciously given.” Speaking from the viewpoint of his profession, Dr. Moore said
he had better hold a diagnostic clinic of the world in order to find its disease, then the cure could
be prescribed. Among the ills in the world he said that in the post-war period our moral and spiritual fiber
has been disrupted and we are suffering from the spiritual ills that accompany post-war periods.

Another ill he compared to the African sleeping sickness, this being the man who is ignorant; who takes no part
in community life and who has for his slogan “What was good enough for my father is good enough for
me.” The third ill he likened to a cancer, which starts on the inside and once started the patient goes
quickly. This type of ill in the world is the lust for power and the greed so predominant in political
life today.

“With these few instances, Dr. (Continued on page 2)

Quips and Cranks Will Possess New Features

Sections Devoted to Administration, Classes, Beauty and Campus Activities

The nineteen-twenty-five Quips and Cranks is fast rounding into shape, and from all indications it will be a big success,
even greater than those of past years, both from a financial and from a literary standpoint. All through the examinations
the work of securing ads for the book has been going forward, and the results have been most encouraging. Manager
Milhous is putting forth every effort to bring this year’s annual to the point where it will pay for itself,
and leave it to his successor free of debt.

This year’s annual contains many new features. The first to attract the attention is a new cover design. The proof
for this has come back and it offers a big improvement over the one of previous years. The annual is
to be divided into four books, the first to be devoted to the Administration, the second to Classes, the third
to Beauty, and the fourth to Activities. The administration section is to include the President, the Chairman of the Board
of (Continued on page 2)

Wildcat Baseball Team Goes Against Best of the State

The 1925 baseball schedule has just been completed with a total of 16 games. Six North Carolina colleges are included
in this schedule, the University of North Carolina, North Carolina State College, Duke University, Wake Forest, Guilford College, and Elon
College. The Wildcats will not invade South Carolina as they did last season but will take a seven-day trip into
Virginia, playing Roanoke College, V. M. I., V. P. I., and Washington and Lee. Six of the 16 games will
be played at Davidson and two at Gastonia, so that the students will be able to see eight games or
half of those scheduled.

Two games with Oak Ridge Institute on the 27th and 28th of March will usher in the season. These games
have always been hotly contested and last year resulted in one victory for Davidson and a tie. Following these games,
N.C. State and Elon will invade Richardson field on May 1st and 3rd respectively. Games with N.C. State at Wake
Forest, University of N.C. at Gastonia, and Duke at Greensboro will come between the next home contest, which will be
with Guilford, (Continued on page 5)

Foster Chosen President of the Freshmen Class

Ed Wilson and Harry Peterson Elected Vice-President and Secretary of Class

The week previous to examinations marked a turning point in the annals of the present Freshman class. According to the
laws of the student government, there shall be held an election shortly after the holidays to select a man who
shall represent the class, and this election was held then. John S. Foster, Jr., of Winston-Salem, N.C., was the man
chosen to lead the class of '28 through the remainder of the session, beginning. All but four, however, were quickly
eliminated. Those remaining were John S. Foster, Jr., W. R. Grey, Jr., John Melton, and Bob McMillan. In the next
ballot Grey was eliminated, and McMillan was eliminated on the third ballot, leaving only Foster and Melton. In the last
vote, Foster was elected by a good margin.

The recently elected man is the son of Dr. and Mrs. John S. Foster, of Winston-Salem, N.C. He is an
honor graduate of Winston-Salem high school of the class of '24. He was one of the 12 members of the
high school to be chosen to membership in the National Honor Society of high school graduates. Besides being a leader
in scholastic work, he was for two years the representative of the school in the annual state tennis contest held
at Chapel Hill.

The following night the election of the other officers took place. Eight men, Wilson, Nesbit, O'Neal, Peterson, McRae, McMillan, Douglas,
and Arbuckle were nominated. Those retained after the first ballot were Wilson, Peterson, McRae, and McMillan, the nominees receiving the
largest number of votes in the order named. In the last ballot, R. E. Wilson was elected. He, too, is
a product of the Old North State, naming as his home Charlotte. Since coming to Davidson he has continued his
excellent record as a football player. At the same time, Harry F. Peterson was nominated and elected secretary and treasurer.
He is a graduate of Nacoochee Institute, Sautee, Ga. The election of the poet and historian were put off until
a later date.

Two Debates on Forensic Schedule Promises Lot of Interesting Argumentation

Wake Forest and Michigan A. & M. Will Be Met This Spring

EARLY PRELIMINARIES

Freshman Triangular Debate With Wake Forest and Carolina—Good Topics

Davidson is at present assured of two varsity intercollegiate debates during this spring, with Wake Forest College and with Michigan
A. & M. The first debate is scheduled with a newcomer on the Wildcat program, Michigan A. & M., which
institution is making a Southern tour this year and will meet the Davidson team here on April 7th. The query
for this debate is, Resolved: That the issuance of tax-exempt securities should be prohibited by law, with Davidson upholding the
negative.

The query to be argued with Wake Forest at the Queens College auditorium during the last of April is, Resolved:
That the Congress of the UnitedStates should be given power to override, by a two-thirds majority, decisions of the Supreme
Court. Here, also, Davidson will uphold the negative. Both teams will be three regular debaters each, and something unusual is
to be tried in the way of preliminaries, in an effort to pick the six best speakers in the student
body. With this end in view, the preliminaries will be held on the night of March 3rd, and six speakers
will be picked regardless of the query they may be debating upon. Efforts will be made to divide up the
possible contestants evenly, so that no one will be unfortunate enough as to have to change his subject after the
preliminaries. However, even this would be preferable to other than the best six men being chosen to represent the college
in these two contests. It is to be understood that any man can study up on either of the queries,
and make his preliminary speech on whichever one he chooses, and the six men who show up best on the
3rd will compose the two teams. All men thinking of going out are asked to hand in their names to
D. B. Wharton, and any who would like to understand more (Continued on page 8).

SEASON OF 1925
March 27—Oak Ridge Institute at Davidson.
March 27—Oak Ridge Institute at Davidson.
April 1—N. C. State at Davidson.
April 3—Elon College at Davidson.
April 9—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 10—Wake Forest College at Wake Forest.
April 13—Univ. of N. C. at Gastonia.
April 16—Wofford College at Davidson (pending).
April 18—Duke University at Greensboro.
April 21—Open.
April 23—Guilford College at Davidson.
April 29—Guilford College at Guilford, N. C.
April 30—Roanoke College at Salem, Va.
May 1—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.
May 2—V.M. I. at Lexington, Va. (pending).
May 4—Washington and Lee at Lexington, Va.
May 8—Wake Forest College at Davidson.
May 9—Duke University at Gastonia.

Contributors Aid Magazine Editors — In Special Issue
The greatest part of the material for the coming issue of the Magazine has gone to the press, and the
remainder is to go in as soon as possible. The date on which it will come out has not been
definitely announced, but it will be around March 1st, or before. This issue is to be known as the anthology
issue, since it is to be the only issue of the Magazine, and will contain a supply of Davidson’s literary
endeavor for the entire year. There will be a special cover feature, which will add much to the appearance of
the issue, but will not be the main part by any means. The editors of the various departments assure the
readers that on the inside will be found an abundance of good humor, a number of snappy short stories, a
variety of the best poems, and the usual array of essays, which Davidson students are capable of producing. Much material
has been handed in by students, and it is of exceptional quality. The editors have chosen what seems the best,
and will produce a quantity which is twice the size of the ordinary issue, making this one truly an issue
of quantity, as well as quality.

Wildcats Grapple Navy And Tech on Eastern Go
First Mat Meets Ever Staged With Either School
The D.C. armies reopen the mat season tonight when they meet the N.C. State wrestling team at Raleigh. A long
jump to Annapolis, Md., follows and there Coach Weems’ Wildcats take on the Naval Academy club for the first time.
These are the only meets of the eastern trip. Although handicapped by the loss of several of last year’s star
performers, the Red and Black wrestling crew embarked on the trip with its new material well worked over and the
veterans in the best of trim. The return of Harry Vance, out of the fray since the football season with
an injured shoulder, materially strengthens the team and greatly increases the point-winning capacity. At John Selser’s old place in the
119-pound class, J. C. Frierson is slated to take part in both meets. The choice for the 127-pounder rests between
J. C. Barrington and Martin. W. D. Cox or Paul Patterson will fill the 139-pound place. C. J. Hansel is
the alternate. Phil Cox and Norman Patterson fill their usual places in the 149-pound and 159-pound classes respectively. Vance is
back at light-heavy and John Laws holds the heavyweight position. Upon the return from the clash with Navy, the wrestlers
must face two hard opponents in V. P. I. and Carolina. V. P. I. is scheduled to come to Davidson
on the 14th of February and Carolina is to come on the 21st. Other meets are being arranged for by
Manager N. G. Patterson.

VOLUNTEER BAND ELECTS BURNS GIBBS AS LEADER
An important meeting of the Volunteer Band was held last Sunday in Shearer Hall, at which time officers for the
new term were elected. The meeting was opened with a short song service and prayers by Regen and McAlpine. The
chief talk of the meeting was given by “Soc” Gibbs on the subject of Preparation. W. E. Miller, who presided,
then read from the handbook the Purpose and Membership of the Volunteer Band. The meeting was closed with a series
of sentence prayers. The following officers were elected: “Soc” Gibbs, president; I. K. Regen, vice-president; Tom Barr, corresponding secretary, and
W. E. Rice, secretary-treasurer.

Third Straight Victory From Duke Quint
Davidson Takes First Contest on Voyage Through Eastern N. C.
McCONNELL BIG STAR
Duke Stages Desperate Rally But Unable to Overcome Wildcat Lead
Durham, Feb. 2—Davidson won over Duke University this season in a fast-played game in Memorial gymnasium Monday night, the score
ending 22 to 18. It was in the first few minutes of the second half that the Wildcats made their
lead substantial enough to guarantee victory. The first half ended at 13 to 10 in favor of the visitors. In
a few minutes after the second half opening, Davidson ran this up to 20 to 10. Duke found her stride
shortly afterwards and started an upward climb. The final minutes of play were fast, but the Methodists could not overcome
the lead. McConnell played brilliantly for the visitors, and Captain Bullock was the mainstay for Duke.

Davidson (22) Position Duke (18)
Hewlett L. F. Bullock
Beall R. F. M. Leeper
Laird Center Kimball
McConnell R. G. Moss
Boggs L. G.

Summary: Field goals—Davidson: Hewlett 2; Beall 1; Laird 1; Anderson 2; McConnell 3; Boggs 1. Duke: M. Leeper 1. Foul
goals—Davidson: Beall 1; Laird 1; Staley 2; McConnell 2. Duke: Bullock 2; Kimball 1; Moss 2. Referee: Parker, of State.

Four Seniors Chosen As Commencement Orators
Wharton, Price, Hopkins and Ray Chosen Following Preliminaries on January 15
The honor of competing in the Senior Oratorical contest at Commencement was awarded to four of the seven Seniors who
delivered orations in the preliminary contest held in Shearer Hall on January 15th. The men chosen were D. B. Wharton,
H. Price, B. A. Hopkins and F. Ray. The others contesting were A. M. Martin, L. B. Gibbs, and W.
A. Patterson. All of the speakers demonstrated the ability of experienced and finished orators, and it was with no little
difficulty that the three men were eliminated. In his talk on War's Doom, Wharton stressed the futility of war and
the necessity for arbitrary settlement of international disputes. Whither? the subject of Price’s oration, was an appeal to the Church
to take its proper place in influencing individual lives and in righting social evils. The theme of Hopkins’ speech, The
Nation and the Man, was that each individual is part of the nation, and without the unity of these individuals,
the nation cannot stand. (Continued on page 2)
