THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

Canada. It depicts, in some scenes, the mad gold rush of the Klondyke region. Ben Lyons, a former Southern boy,
will be the male star, while Anna Q. Nilssen and Viola Dana will be shown in other leading roles. "Chance,"
written by the famous author, Rex Beach, will be presented at the local picture show next Saturday night. This picture
was produced under the most difficult conditions, being filmed in the great wilds of northwest Canada.

College boys are all right if they stay in college.

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop
202 S. Church St.

ALHAMBRA
INCORPORATED
REG. U.S. PAT. OFF.

Fresh Country Vegetables
Staple and Fancy Groceries
Fellows, see us for replenishing your Fraternity House larders

BARNETT AND COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.

Judge—"Did you or did you not strike this woman?"
Slim Vaughan—"Your honor, I only told her that the wallpaper in her apartment had marks on it."
Judge—"Two years for knocking her flat."

Wood Brown thought he had made a hit over in Charlotte when his girl asked for his picture, but he
missed his guess. She wrote "Out when this calls" across the picture of his shirt front and gave the photo
to her maid.

James Oliver Curwood’s "The Ancient Highway"
WITH
Jack Holt and Billie Dove

On Display By Mel
Vicks in a spoon and inhale the medicated vapors. Apply frequently up the nostrils. Use freely before going to bed.

Ben Ratchford—"I had a date with one of these mind-reading mamas last night."
Webb—"How did she enjoy her vacation?"

Slum Sally (to little sister)—"See here, Mary Anne, if you're going to cry till I give you another bite of
this apple, you're sure to have a wet spell ahead of you."

Hayden Hollingsworth was at Queens College on a deputation. The dean told him to leave his coat in Pi Hall.
When she mentioned Pi, Hayden wanted to know if that was the dining room.

RALPH’S
Orders, 1g: Hudson St, New York City

PIEDMONT HAT CLEANERS
Pressing Club
Shoe Shine Parlor
Have your old hats cleaned and reblocked $.50.

Boyce Martin was up before the judge for calling his girl a camel. He was fined $10 and costs, but
before retiring from the room he asked the judge if he would consider it an offense for a person to
call a camel a lady. The judge answered in the negative. Boyce made a gallant bow to his accuser, saying,
"Good evening, madam."

Bob McConnel says, "She turned her back on love so she got it in the neck."

Just beyond the BankJohnston’s Barber Shop SAVE MONEY No. 27 S. Tryon St. Phone 3818

College men are supposed to get eight hours of sleep every day, but not the same eight hours in which
they attend classes.

Every time Bob Mitchell orders a coca-cola he gets “Skit” to put lots of lemon in it. He says this
way he gets a dope and a lemonade for a nickel.

Shelby, is the world round or crooked? “Neither, sir; it is crooked.”

Caldwell Withers has kindly condescended to give his pick of the All-Class Basketball Team. Here it is:
Left Forward—F. C. Withers, ’18
Right Forward—F. Caldwell Withers, ’28
Center—Frank Caldwell Withers, ’28
Left Guard—Frank C. Withers, ’28
Right Guard—Goofey Withers, ’28
Coach—Frank Withers, ’28
Referee—Caldwell Withers, ’28

Write your own ticket.

We understand that Roland Wilson is Secretary of War—Horse.

From our fence-post observations, we notice that the Flat Iron is getting flatter each week. The way it started out
we thought it was going to be an electric iron, but now it looks as though it will be a
sad iron before the Mobull Syndicate goes bankrupt.

Ben Alderman says that he has thought for a week that Malcolm Lockhart was growing a mustache, but he found
out yesterday that Mac is just too lazy to shave.

“It’s sad,” said the sentimental boardinghouse lady, “to think that this poor little lamb should be slaughtered in the flower
of its youth just to satisfy our appetites.”
“Yes,” agreed Diamond Dick, “it is tough.”

“You know,” said Red Evans, “I’ll miss that spittoon we had in here.”
“Yes,” said his roommate, “that's why I threw it away.”

Somebody asked Steve Wall where his roommate was, saying that he had not seen him for two weeks. Steve replied
that he would not be seen for two more weeks, either, as he had gotten thirty days this time.

“Why do you call my father ‘Friday?’” asked the fair one.
“Because,” said Mason Carroll, “his name is Robinson.”

Bill Cox, the fashion hound, says that the height of fashion this fall is about fifteen inches from the ground.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
BOXES EXPRESSIVE OF THANKSGIVING
Davidson, N. C.

VIRGIL HOLLINGSWORTH, AUGUSTA, GA.

We have several new Push-Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.

FOR SALE BY
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Davidson, N. C.
