THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

ALUMNI NOTES

’04—J. A. Cannon was a visitor for a few hours on Sunday afternoon.

’25—Tom Guiton was married September the eighth to Miss Louise Morton Patterson of Bedford, Va.

’22—Ben Dunlap of Rock Hill was on the hill last Thursday.

’25—Tom Marrow and Harry Whitner were up from Charlotte Sunday afternoon renewing old acquaintances.

’23—Dave Bethea stopped over here for a few minutes Sunday afternoon.

’25—“Zander” McCallister and Jim Patton have just returned from a summer's tour in Europe.

’23—Leonard Dick now Woodberry spent the past week on the hill.

’23—Bill Joe Martin will leave for the University of Pennsylvania in a few days, to continue the study of medicine.

’22—Doc DeArmon is teaching this year in the Statesville High School.

’19—Joe Miller is in the insurance business in Charleston.

’22—Robert Black is coaching at Wilmington High School with great success.

’25—Charles Brown, “Zeke” Johnson, and Goat Lewis were visitors on the hill Monday night.

’23—Bob Davidson, who has been teaching in the McCallie School in Chattanooga for the past two years, will attend Louisville Seminary this fall.

’23—Spoofy Hillhouse, former president of the Davidson Student Body, has returned to his Alma Mater as “Y” Secretary.

’24—Sook Boggs will teach in the McCallie School during the coming year. Boggs was one of the most popular men on the campus last year and Captain-elect of this year’s football team. His place at guard will be hard to fill.

’23—W. S. Buchanan, now teaching school in Shelby, was on the hill for a few days at the opening of school.

’22—McDowell Richards is visiting his father for a few days. Mac is a Rhodes scholar at Oxford. He will leave for Europe at an early date.

’22—John Schenck was a visitor at Davidson over the weekend.

’23—W. P. Brown and Goat Lewis, of ’25, were up for the Freshman reception on Monday night, greeting old friends.

’25—“Stud” Trawick, of Buena Vista, spent the weekend on the hill.

’20—Pat Gilchrist and Ed Wilson, ex-’28, were visitors on the hill Monday night during the reception.

’22—Rev. Grady Brown and Rev. D. R. Freeman, of ’20 are now living in Charlotte.

’24—Angus McBryde was a visitor on the hill over the weekend. He is going to Penn for the second year.

’23—Bascom Sorrels, P. O. Bethea, of ’22, O. J. Allison, of ’24, and Chink Woods of ’23, are all working in the Aetna Life Insurance office in Columbia, S. C.

’23—Buster Grey is working with the Missouri State Life Insurance office in St. Louis.

’25—Wallace Purdy and Chong McIlwaine are teaching in the McCallie School in Chattanooga, Tenn.

M. B. MAYHEWS EMBLEM OF College Reps. Chas. Bragaw, 15 N. B. MAYHEWS CLEANERS AND DYERS I. FRONTIS NAT. ASSO. Plants Mooresville Ph. 240 Davidson Ph. 82-1

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

YOUR APPEARANCE Is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times. LET US ASSIST YOU. Next to Postal Telegraph

THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP Statesville, N. C. P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL” PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS VICTROLAS RECORDS AND ROLLS ANDREW MUSIC STORE Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments SHEET MUSIC OLDEST IN THE STATE 213 N. Tryon St.

Honorary Journalistic Fraternity Initiates Nine Leading Journalists of Davidson

After continuing more than a year without extending additional bids, the Delta Pi Kappa Honorary Journalistic Fraternity initiated nine men from the present Junior and Senior classes just prior to commencement last year. The newly elected members of the fraternity are C. F. Smith, W. E. Milton, R. B. Parker, A. Y. Bowie, G. M. Eddington, C. F. Monk, Harllee Branch, Jr., Don Wharton and P. F. Jones. The first six men are members of the Senior class, while the latter three are members of the present Junior class.

Delta Pi Kappa is the only Journalistic Fraternity on the Davidson campus, and was organized several years ago. Since its establishment, it has achieved much prestige among the other honorary organizations at Davidson, and has limited its membership strictly to students who have shown extraordinary brilliance and promise in Davidsonian and Magazine work. Each of the new initiates has justified their election to the fraternity.

C. F. Smith, as Editor of the Davidsonian and in other capacities, has earned an enviable reputation as Davidson’s most versatile writer, being equally gifted as an editor, poet, humorist, and short-story writer. He is a member of Delta Pi Kappa and Sigma Upsilon.

W. E. Milton is probably Smith’s closest rival. Not only has his prowess been recognized in Davidson, but he has done special work for a number of the South’s leading papers.

Roland Parker has gained fame not only as Associate Editor of the Davidsonian, but also in the capacity of Essay Editor of the Davidson College Magazine, and Alpha Phi Epsilon.

A. Y. Bowie won recognition as a writer during his Freshman year, being a leading member of the Reporters’ Club. He is now an Associate Editor of the Davidsonian, and a member of the I. R. Club and Alpha Phi Epsilon.

C. F. Monk's ability has been publicly recognized on numerous occasions, and was finallyrewarded by his election to the editorship of the Davidson College Magazine in the spring elections last year. He, too, is a leading member of Sigma Upsilon.

Harllee Branch, Jr., present managing editor of the Davidsonian, the highest honor bestowed upon a Junior in journalistic circles, has won much praise for his remarkable ability and faithfulness. He was one of only two men to win a place on the Davidsonian staff during his sophomore year, being elected to the position of Associate Editor at that time. Don Wharton has few competitors as a writer among his classmates. He was elected to the position of Sporting Editor of the Davidsonian during his Sophomore year, in which position he served with editorial ability. He is now Assistant Managing Editor of the Davidsonian. Floyd Jones, as a member of the Reporters’ Club during his Sophomore year and as a member of the staff of the Davidsonian at the present time, is the third member of the brilliant triumvirate of literary artists in the Junior class. He is also an Assistant Managing Editor of the Davidsonian. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, I. R. Club, and is the closest competitor for journalistic honors.

(Continued from page 1)

The speaker always commands the attention of his audience and this time did not prove an exception to the rule. The freshmen seemed to be pleased and amused with this presentation. Nick Sappenfield, president of the student body, made a powerful talk to the men; a straight-from-the-shoulder talk, assuring the freshmen that the old men of Davidson were glad to have them and that great things were expected from this class. Sappenfield urged the new men to enter into every field of activity that they possibly could, at the same time devoting enough time to their studies. At the close of Sappenfield’s talk, it was announced that a moving picture show was the next thing on the program. The presentation, “The White Desert,” proved to be a very interesting movie. The scenes showed those at Davidson at present as the plot centered around a snowstorm and a very realistic snow slide that almost ended the life of the main characters of the picture.

Hendrix Returns to Take Up Graduate Work

The joy and the clamor of the Old Guard of France over the return of the master leader Napoleon from the island of Elba was mild compared to that in the hearts of the Wildcats when the news flashed over the Davidson campus that Jim Hendrix was back for another year. Napoleon returned for the famous Hundred Days, but should the eighty days that intervene between now and the Thanksgiving game be as memorable as those of the past season, they will exceed in importance, to the Davidson student body at least, the aforementioned Hundred Days. Few football players have captured the admiration of the Davidson campus as did Jim Hendrix last season. Following a rather mediocre game his Junior year, when he was playing out of his normal position, Hendrix leaped into the sporting light of the state with some of the greatest backfield playing of recent years of Davidson football. Hendrix, in speaking of his return, says that he has come back to Davidson to better fit himself to enter the medical school of the University of Pennsylvania. He says that he has much work to do, work that is more important than that of the gridiron, though he spoke highly of that. The student body, in welcoming Hendrix back to the campus again, see in his return more than that of the ordinary football player. As president of the student body the past session, as a leader in establishing the Biology club, as a prominent member of many of the honorary fraternities of the school, and as a leader in the social, fraternal, and social life, Hendrix was one of the outstanding men of his class. It is expected that he will again be a vital force upon the campus.

Y. M. C. A. ARRANGES FOR NOTED SPEAKERS

(Continued from page 1)

The Y. M. C. A. will have this year a series of programs that are sure to be helpful with the support of the student body. Many things are expected this year and let us hope that indeed it can be said when the year is over that we harbor no vain regrets over not having attended our “Quota,” which should mean every program of “Y” meetings. Don't think that is a pessimistic view; we don’t intend it that way. It is merely conservative.

PRINTING

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH 3 South Barracks QUICK SERVICE BEST PRICES Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co. Charlotte, N. C.

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION

We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest. The Sanitary Cafe Mooresville, N. C. Next door to Artcraft Theatre

WHEN YOU FURNISH YOUR FRATERNITY HOUSE, SEE WHITLEY-WILKINSON CO. MOORESVILLE, N. C.

LEST YOU FORGET WE ARE STILL GLAD TO BE OF SERVICE TO YOU

If you need a suit, either one or two-trouser suit, let us show you before you make a decision. Sport Sweaters, Golf Stockings, Golf Knickers, extra trousers. BELK BROTHERS CO. CHARLOTTE, N. C.