THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

Alumni News

WARREN COX WRITES LONG LETTER FROM HANGCHOW

The following letter received from Warren Cox shows to what extent Davidson College and Davidson men are going in the
support of Christian education. It is a letter which represents the whole of what Davidson is doing in the extending
of opportunities with which Davidson men are surrounded to those to whom such opportunities are rare and costly. Warren Cox
was graduated from Davidson in 1923 and immediately accepted the position of professor of chemistry in Hangchow Christian College, the
“Davidson of China,” in which place he has been supported by the Davidson student body. To the old men, this
letter hardly needs an introduction, for all who knew Warren can find his personality pervading the letter, but to the
new ones and those to whom this man is a stranger, let it be said that he was one of
the finest men ever passing through Davidson, and in his work is acquitting himself as Davidson men do in whatever
walks of life they may be found. In the coming campaign for funds to carry on this work, it is
hoped that every man will remember that this one of their fellow-students is giving his life to that for which
they are asked to contribute only money. No other call should meet with a greater response.

Hangchow, as you know, is noted for its temples. The city itself is a city of some eight hundred thousand
and is situated around a large lake. On all sides of the lake are mountains, on one of which the
College is situated. The beautiful location gave rise to scores of temples: Buddhist, of course. Everywhere you turn you see
temples and some of them are really marvelous works of art. The most famous is one called Lin Yin—about seven
miles distant from the college. The main part of the structure is supported by huge pillars of Oregon fir, some
hundred feet high, that was brought from America in 1910, and transported overland by hand (7 miles). Three statues of
about 40 feet high are the chief idol in this part of the temple. They look most imposing from their
high pedestal which is about ten feet above the floor—as they look down on struggling humanity. I had the privilege
of watching the services in one of the largest temples, and the whole thing consisted in the head priest putting
a little prayer mat down on the floor and bowing his head to the ground three times, folding the mat
up in a most ceremonious way, and then finishing the ceremony with chants. The most peculiar thing about this particular
temple was a Hall of Five Hundred Buddhas; a hall in which there really were five hundred of the gentlemen.
All of them were six feet high.

China, of course, is China, and it would take more than a Chinese philosopher to interpret it. Withal, it is
interesting and when one’s interest flags through familiarity, China still becomes more absorbing. One must admire the people for their
stolidness and impassiveness; but one still finds that it is exhausting when you try to change their way of doing
things. China is much worse than a fraternity meeting when it comes to convincing other people to do things your
way. It is more like butting one’s head against a stone wall: physicists tell us that the wall moves, but
we don’t believe it. Try moving China. At last I have succeeded in getting about fifteen boys to come out
and learn American Football. The way I got that many to come out was to promise them that I wouldn’t
hurt them! Talking of jobs: you just try teaching football to fifteen boys who really don't care anything about learning
the game; are mortally afraid of getting hurt; can’t understand English; and have never seen an “olive” ball before. You'll
have quite a job. We have no uniforms at all, and all that I can try to do is to
keep their interest, teach them the fundamentals, and don’t let them get hurt. Today I tried dividing up the squad
into two groups and letting them play campus football—they liked it about as well as a dose of castor oil.
They are learning, though, and within a few years we'll have some real athletes. All of China is changing rapidly.
In fact, it is changing so rapidly that you can almost see it. Right on the campus we have three
different costumes worn by the boys. The vast majority wear their gowns (and, believe me, they won't even take them
off to play ball), some ten or twelve wear foreign clothes, and then there is one who has donned knickers.
When you think of what a revolution a pair of knickers would be to the Chinese idea of what correct
dress should be, you realize how far along the line of a “higher” civilization we are. Maybe I had better
say “Western” civilization.

W. G. “Gig” Shepherd, ex-’23, Paul Guthrie, '23, and Watt McCain, ’24, were on the campus Sunday. Much interest is
being manifested among students and alumni of Davidson College over the recent publication of “Expansionists of 1812”—a novel historical treatise
on the causes of the War of 1812 by Julius W. Pratt, Ph.D., who graduated from Davidson College in the
Class of ‘08. Mr. Pratt has attracted the praise of well-known literary and historical critics by his unique treatment of
the historical incidents leading to the War of 1812; and students will be glad to learn that this latest literary
production by a Davidson graduate is included in the new list of books added to the college library within the
past two weeks.

Blue Ridge Conference Program is Released

Annual College Meet in Carolina Mountains Scheduled for June 16-25

Delegates for the annual conference for Southern students, held at Blue Ridge each summer, will be held again this summer,
and the committee in charge of arrangements announce definitely that the dates of the conference will be June 16-25. The
programs for this summer's conference have been arranged with much care, and everything points to a great conference. Students from
all of the leading southern colleges attend the conferences, and Davidson will as usual be well represented.

Zakow, Che. Mar, 16, 1925

My dear Julian,

I was glad to get your letter a few days ago. News from Davidson is always more than welcome—especially when
it is good news. I hope that Junior Speaking was a complete success with plenty of women and song. Gosh,
but I surely do wish that I could be back for just that one week of Junior Speaking and see
some real, honest-to-goodness bobbed-haired, American flappers. Such a phenomenon doesn’t exist out here—and you surely do miss ’em, when you
“no have got.”or more in height; and all had the dust of ages on them. We asked the priest how
often they gave them a bath, and he said that they washed them off about once a year. We had
a lot of fun asking the priest the names of the different idols. He always gave some name, but I'm
really afraid that in most cases he made up the name on the spur of the moment. One interesting idol
in this hall was a representation of Marco Polo, the Italian explorer, who came to Hangchow many long years ago.
He looks just like any one of the other idols, and not at all like a “foreign devil.”

As I said, no one can interpret China for you. The best way to interpret it is to see it
yourself; and even then you oftentimes are not quite sure of what you think about it. There’s only one thing
certain: it’s not like what you think it is—you can be sure of that. Why not come over and visit
us?

With all best wishes,
Sincerely,
W. M. Cox, Jr.

Singing will be an important feature of the programs, and a special singer will lead the singing. Special discussion groups
on such interesting subjects as athletics, publications, and student government are held during one of the periods of the morning;
and students find much common interest in these discussions. The tentative program mailed to Davidson from the Blue Ridge headquarters
for each day of the annual conference includes the following periods:

7:30—Breakfast.
8:00—Devotional Assembly, Dr. I. G. Venable.
8:45—Bible Study Groups.
9:30-10:25—The World Task of Christendom.
10:30-11:15—Recess—No meetings allowed.
11:15-12:15—Platform—Introduced by a special speaker.
12:15-1:00—Special Groups, Fellowship.
1:00—Dinner.
2:00-6:00—Recreation, Nature Fellowship.
6:00—Supper.
6:30-7:00—College Sing.
7:00-8:00—Hillside Meeting.
8:00-9:00—Association Meetings.

The South Carolina track meet was perhaps the closest yet heard of this season. Mighty glad the Wildcats could forge
ahead with a two-point margin. The fellow that makes second and third place should not be overlooked, either, for a
number of those places sometimes win a meet.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH SERVICE

Mrs. Malcolm Rumple has gone to visit her father in Columbus, Ohio.

TO ORDER $29.50
“STYLES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN”
WE INVITE YOUR INSPECTION OF
WHOLESALE CUSTOM TAILORS
“WHERE THE STYLES START FROM”
FROM OUR SHOPS DIRECT TO YOU.
SAVES THE MIDDLEMAN’S PROFITS

DAVIDSON FIVE YEARS AGO

In one of the snappiest track meets ever held on the Hill, N. C. State bowed to the Wildcat trackmen
to the tune of a 44-36 score. Davidson proved that it was still in the running for the State baseball
championship by taking the long end of a 12-1 score from the strong Wake Forest nine. Wake Forest had the
bases filled three times but when the Wildcats pulled down they were unable to bring but one man home.

A Vigilance Committee was inaugurated by the Student Body comprising ten seniors, five juniors, and five sophomores, whose duty it
was to see that the freshmen regulations were rigidly enforced at all times. The freshmen were ordered to wear a
prescribed cap at all times while on the campus.

Class baseball began with a bang, the sophs trimming the seniors 4-3, the game not being decided until the last
half of the ninth.

The Polity Club at its regular meeting changed its name to the Davidson chapter of the International Relations Club.

Opie Reid, the famous American author, gave the year’s last lyceum number, a humorous character sketch of a countryman’s impression
of New York City.

Extract from a boy's letter home, “I am sitting at the Y. M. C. A. with the piano playing in
my uniform.”

The Davidsonian carried a column: “A little inside light on our students.”

Charlotte came out on top of a hotly contested golf match in which Dr. McConnell did some fine playing. We
wonder how he can do it, too, while many fellows run puffing, he puts in his dashes, and wins them.
Keep it up, Harry. Next year when Currie comes along we are going to watch the battle between you two
with interest. We think more than one fellow will come out to watch the practices then.

H. Y. Alexander was selected as circulation manager and J. M. Jamison as subscription manager. These two men have also
worked faithfully during the past and deserve the honor accorded them. C. W. Williams and O. S. Brazles will be
solicitors and E. L. Douglas their assistant. Julian Lake will manage the service department.

CLEMSON COURT MEN LOSE TO DAVIDSON

The Davidson tennis team defeated Clemson here last Friday 5-1. The Wildcat racketeers lost only one match during the afternoon’s
play. In the feature match Price, Davidson, defeated Lautlebeu, Clemson, 6-2, 6-0. This match was very fast and both players
showed excellent form. McCutchen, Davidson, defeated Goodale, Clemson, 6-3, 6-3. In the only match lost to Clemson, Thrower defeated Beall
2-6, 6-4, 6-2. In the fourth singles match Lockhart, Davidson, defeated Stoney, Clemson, 6-1, 6-4. The Wildcat team won both
of the doubles matches in easy fashion. Price and McCutchen, Davidson, defeated Lautlebeu and Thrower, Clemson, in two easy sets,
6-1, 6-1. Beall and Lockhart had a little harder time defeating their opponents, Goodale and Stoney, the score being 6-2,
6-2.

Boys coming in to Davidson Friday morning brought word of a runner at Chapel Hill making the mile against VPI
in 4:45. It must have been Ranson, one of the famous boys of that name from Huntersville who have been
the stars on the Carolina track teams for years. He is captain this year. His brother at Oxford High School,
on the Carolina team last year, holds the State record for the pole vault.

Wells in right and left field caught six flies in that many chances without an error, while Pee Wee Simpson
made five put-outs at the half-way station.

CENTRAL PRESSING CLUB
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning, Dyeing, Pressing
Shoe Shine In Connection
Largest and Oldest
8 E. Trade St.
Best HAT SHOP
CHARLOTTE

THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

PREPARE!
4:00 o'clock Sunday afternoon the most dangerous hour in America
WHY?

McAlister Carson, Manager ('13)
Insurance Department
Independence Trust Company
Charlotte, N.C.
