THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

THE FLAT-IRON
A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies
BY KABLE

What has gone on before: Dan Druff, the hero, is commissioned by John Dough, his boss, to go with Gabriel Snubbers on the Yacht Flat Iron to tropical shores. Dan is to get the secret plans of a toothpick process. Weona Snubbers, the old man’s daughter, accompanies the expedition. Dan falls in love with her immediately. As he boards the ship he receives a note warning him to abandon the trip or be in peril of his life. Now let us proceed:

Dan read the message quickly and looked up to see who had given it to him, but the messenger had gone. What more could a red-blooded he-man want than an ocean trip, a beautiful girl along, and a little tinge of danger to keep him from going to sleep? He put the note into his pocket and retired to his cabin to dress for breakfast. He took his tux out of his briefcase, and put on his step-easy shoes, meanwhile thinking of his unseen enemy. He went to breakfast with Weona on his arm; she was rather heavy, so he was glad when they reached the table and sat down.

“Will you please pass the gravy?” rasped a wheezing, whining voice. Dan started at the sound of that voice, but he didn't go far. Where had he heard that voice before? Ah! Now he remembers; it was the man who had been thrown out of the picture show for reading the subtitles aloud. Yet the other guests called him count, but Dan knew he was no count. Here was a man to be watched; Dan made a note of it on his cuff. As he was writing this note, Count Emout let his hand slip and splashed the gravy all over Dan's coat. Little did this worry Dan, for had he not water-proofed his suit last week? But this incident served to show Dan that the count was his true enemy.

After a delightful breakfast of grapefruit, grape-nuts, and grape juice, Dan went out and had a brisk game of tennis with Weona; he let her beat six sets and called it love on his part. Then he explored the yacht, he found himself in Gabriel’s room. He wanted to get the lay of the land, so he slipped around and investigated in all the corners. He finally saw some blue paper protruding from the hanging lamp; these were the valuable blueprints. He heard a slight noise and turning quickly saw Count Emout at the desk searching for cigars. Dan put more notes on his cuff and left the room. He thought the present hiding place of the plans would be safer than any other.

By evening the little “Flat Iron” was thousands of miles from land. A saffron-hued moon veiled by the silvery mist—no, that was the next night. Anyway, the boat was sailing along on a smooth sea; the pretty dogfish would jump out of the water and bark for bonbons every now and then. At supper time or dinner time the boat passed close to the Pajama Islands and slowed down in order to let the guests see the natives do the Charleston; one old tribe leader was especially good on the saxophone and gave encore after encore. All the guests threw pennies to the performers and watched them diving after them in a hundred feet of water.

That night it was dark, terribly dark. Even the yacht was dark; the current was off so the whole boat was in darkness. The poker players had to strip to make it light enough to play. Dan was walking the deck attempting to think about something. He knew this was a good thing, because in school his psychology professor had made him take walks and try to think. Down at the starboard side of the boat he saw a form holding on the flag pole. He struck a match and looked at his watch; it was quarter past thirteen bells; he made a note of this strange coincidence on his cuff. He then crept down the sidewalk, or deck, to investigate this form; as he got closer he recognized that it was a woman; still closer he saw that it was Weona. He touched her softly, and in that tone of voice he learned in his dramatic club, said, “Weona!”

“I knew you would come to me,” she evidently knew her part too. “I am so glad to get away from those boring people, especially Count Emout; he gives me a pain.” Dan offered her an aspirin. “But you are different from the rest; I can see from looking into your eyes that you have the same desire to live that I have, instead of just existing like the rest.” She heaved a great sigh over the railing.

The boat was making ninety knots an hour, but at this instant a huge scissors fish cut one of the knots, and started a slow sinking of the ship. Suddenly the little craft gave a shudder like one affected with the shimmies. Weona grabbed Dan around the neck. “What is that terrible noise,” she shrieked. “That's my heart,” said Dan, attempting to be witty although he knew the boat was sinking. He reached through the window and grabbed his briefcase under one arm, and taking Weona under the other, jumped overboard into the storm-tossed, gnashing, heaving, drunken waters. Whispering words of encouragement into the ears of his beloved he took his compass out of his briefcase. Then he set out in a southeast direction.

At dawn he was still swimming; strong though he was, he was beginning to tire of his burden. He could not hold out any longer, he felt. Suddenly he felt his muscles give way and he could not make another stroke; he felt himself going down.

(Continued next week)
Copyrighted by Mobull Syndicate.

AUTOMOBILE ACCIDENT
(Continued from page 1)

The top of the car was completely demolished. A special memorial service for Frank was held just before the usual “Y" vespers on Sunday evening, and at this time Hayden Hollingsworth, president of the Y. M. C. A. paid a high tribute to the fine life that Hudson had lived during his three years at Davidson. Students and faculty members alike bowed their heads in tribute to the student, whose work and influence on the Davidson campus had been a living example of Christian service. Frank had taken a leading part in various campus activities, and would have graduated in June. He was chairman of the student Court of Control, and was Business Manager of the Glee Club, having been a member of that organization for the past three years. He was also a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

UNIQUE INITIATION
(Continued from page 1)

Doctor Lingle to Lead Football Squad Banqueted by Professor International Relations Club Meeting on Friday Davidson Professor Will Speak in Open Meeting on Foreign Policy of United States

There will be an open meeting of the International Relations Club on Friday evening, November 20th, at 7:30 o'clock, in Shearer Hall. Dr. T. W. Lingle will address the club on the present international policy of the United States.with special emphasis on the World Court. This is a question of vital importance throughout the nation at the present time as it is to be decided at the next meeting of the Senate whether or not the United States shall become a member of the World Court. Student thought and opinion are necessary to make this meeting a success as well as to make our contribution toward the thought and feeling on this matter throughout the United States. Dr. Lingle is quite an authority on international matters. He has made quite a number of trips to Europe in recent years which will enable him to add a more practical and personal touch to his address. Both students and townspeople are cordially urged and invited to attend this meeting as the guests of the I. R. Club.

There has been much interest shown this year in the organization of state clubs at Davidson. A feeling of patriotism and fellowship has been created by the close connection that students from the same state have in one of these clubs. The latest addition to the clubs already formed is that of Florida. As yet this new club has not really begun to form any definite plans by which it may work. Meetings have been held several mornings immediately after chapel, but nothing very definite has been decided on. However, at its last meeting Frank W. Alford was elected president, and plans for a feed, to be held in the near future, were discussed. No particular date was set, however, but it is thought that interest in the organization can be created by a meeting such as that proposed. While this new club is a little late in getting started, all its members are enthusiastic and they will be heard from in the future. At present there are about 25 enrolled in the new club.

MINISTERIAL BAND HEARS ADDRESS BY HILLHOUSE

Also Plans to Help Mooresville Pastor on Religious Survey of District

A. M. Hillhouse, secretary of the Y. M. C. A., spoke to the Ministerial Band, in Shearer Hall, Sunday afternoon. His topic was “The Importance of Having An Aim In Preaching.” At this meeting plans were made to send a delegation into the vicinity around Mooresville for the purpose of assisting the Mooresville pastor in his work. They are to make a religious survey of the district of Mooresville. The delegation will work in connection with the Y. M. C. A. Two or more Sunday afternoons will be devoted to this work. The election of officers will take place next Sunday, and the new officers will be installed the first Sunday in December. The attendance so far this year has been greater than that of the past two or three years; this has been very gratifying to those in charge.

DUKE BLUE DEVILS (Continued from page 1)

when the Wildcats, led by Hendrix, came back with end runs and brilliant forward passes to be ahead, 14 to 13, at the end of the third period. Another touchdown was made in the last playing period of the 1924 season by consistent ground gaining on the part of Davidson's stellar backs. Due to the fact that the date set for the game is a holiday, a large crowd is sure to be on hand for the season's last strong contest. The excellent showing that Davidson made offensively last Saturday and the marked improvement that Duke has demonstrated lately indicate that the game will be close, and should be a good exhibition of football.

ORATORICAL CONTEST (Continued from page 1)

and should be strong contestants for the medal. Prof. Carl Wachter, professor of public speaking and debate, is to have a meeting of all men interested in the contest and will call it in the near future.

Wachter at Local Hotel Tuesday Night

The entire football squad, including the scrubs, together with the coaches and Dr. J. M. Douglas, the graduate manager, were the guests of Prof. Carl Wachter at a banquet given by him last Tuesday evening at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. At the pep meeting preceding the Carolina game, Professor Wachter had promised to give a banquet to the team which won the victory on Emerson field. “I am keeping my promise,” he said to his guests. “This banquet is to the team which outplayed and outfought the team which was fortunate enough to win. It is a pleasure for me to look into the faces of the men, who, working together, have made the 1925 Davidson football team the ‘Light-weight Champions of the South.’ Indeed it is a question in my mind,” he continued, “whether any team in the country of equal poundage can defeat the fighting Wildcats.”

Wachter then introduced Dr. Douglas, who voiced his gratification of the splendid showing of the team throughout the season, his pleasure at being asked to attend the banquet, and his convictions as to the character value of college athletics. Coach Monk Younger was then called upon to speak. His remarks were brief and roundly applauded. He thanked Professor Wachter for his efforts in behalf of the team and for the sumptuous repast of which they had just partaken, and complimented the entire squad on the cooperation and loyalty they had given the coaches. Coach Tex Tilson, on being introduced, said he was no orator and would not attempt to make a speech, but that, before sitting down, he wanted to thank Professor Wachter for the banquet and express his pleasure at the success of the team, not for anything he or Monk had done, but for the hard work and cooperation of every man on the team and the work of the scrubs must not be forgotten. Captain Wick Black and Jim Hendrix, the outstanding star of the Carolina game, were also called upon to speak, and responded briefly. After a few closing remarks by Professor Wachter, the banquet ended with the singing of “O' Davidson.”

Universities and colleges must be wicked places: Boys and girls under sixteen are not admitted.

Into the making of this one cigarette goes all of the ability of the world’s largest organization of expert tobacco men. Nothing is too good for Camels. The choicest Turkish and domestic tobaccos. The most skilful blending. The most scientific package. No other cigarette made is like Camels. No finer cigarette can be made. Camels quality and Camels expert blend of choice Turkish and domestic tobaccos win you on merits. Smoke Camels as liberally as you choose. They will never tire your taste. The more Camels you smoke, the more you will appreciate their fine quality and the lack of irritating qualities. Give Camels every test—then compare them puff for puff with any cigarette in the world at any price!