THE DAVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925

STUDENTS SCOUR COUNTRY FOR CARS

The market for automobiles and other similar forms of transportation is very rushed at the present time, on account of the rapidly approaching time of departure of the nearby towns' Davidson students. All are subject to the most rigid search and bargaining for the required conveyors. The first requisite is that they be cheap; next important is that the engine will run with sufficient coaxing. Little things like flat or blown-out tires do not hinder the sale in the least. Those cars with the most dilapidated or spectacularly decorated bodies seem to find the readier sale. However, some prefer their machines without bodies. Lights and fenders are not required, and horns are obviously unnecessary.

In this fad of funny Fords, there lies a great opportunity for extensive advertising for the college. All temporary tourists should decorate with school colors and paint adequate information about the institution. When the machine stops in a town for some unknown reason, one of the travelers should burst forth in oratory to the populace while another seeks the trouble with the engine. The whole country will probably be covered by these flivvers. One group of six or eight will start in the direction of West Virginia and hope to get there in time to shoot a fire-cracker on the glorious fourth. Another crowd will start in the direction of Florida; they are handicapped by having to pass through south Georgia, but they have the good will of the student body. A third group has the ambition of going back to the wilds of Arkansas.

All students seem to fall for this means of traveling at some time in their college course. Some even do it twice; but rarely ever a third time. An equal number will no doubt use the old system that was used even before the advent of the automobile, and it’s rumored that a few will even pay their way home.

New Biological Society Has Interesting Meeting

Patterson and Calhoun Main Speakers—Give Summary of Survey Held Recently

The Davidson Biological Club met last Tuesday night in the biology classroom at Temporary. The meeting was open to all who desired to attend, practically all of the students taking Biology attending. A large number of other students interested in the subjects brought up and discussed also attended.

The two main speakers of the evening were P. M. Patterson and L. E. Calhoun, both members of the Club. Patterson spoke on “Lichens” and gave an interesting discussion showing his thorough knowledge of the subject and giving many original observations and illustrations. He told of the wonder of the organism, its ancestry, structure, reproduction, etc. He used lantern projections to illustrate some of the lichens collected around Davidson.

Calhoun made a synopsis of the papers recently distributed throughout the student body on the subject of eugenics. He made his summary from the average of about three hundred papers. About five hundred were distributed in the dormitories but not all were returned. Moral character proved to be the first requisite and disposition second in the whole student body. He also gave the data on what boys from different states thought, from different classes, different ages, etc. His talk also proved interesting and instructive to those privileged to hear him.

INFIRMARY REPORT

The infirmary is at last free of the mumps. W. D. Douglas, the last victim of this popular disease, left the infirmary on the second, and it is to be hoped that we have seen the last case this season.

The following men have been in the infirmary since last week: R. O. Sellars, C. V. Smith, W. K. Forbes, V. S. Broyles, C. R. Hunter, and C. M. S. McIlwaine. Broyles and Hunter are the only inmates at present.

Mrs. Lewis Price, who has been spending several months with her daughter, Mrs. W. W. Wood, has returned to her home in Lewisburg, W. Va.

HANGCHOW COLLEGE FUND GOES OVER

According to a statement given out by Mr. J. P. Williams, secretary of the “Y” at Davidson, the campaign for funds for the Hangchow Christian College in China, of which Warren Cox, a former Davidson man, is an instructor, went over the top. The subscriptions now stand at thirteen hundred and fifty dollars. This is thought to be an extremely generous contribution when it is taken into consideration that it was raised from college boys, and during a similar campaign waged by the Queens canvassers.

R. O. T. C. News

There will be four officers and two sergeants stationed at Davidson next year, the officers being Captain Weems, Captain Daugherty, Captain Elkins, and Lieutenant Bennett. The last two officers will be newcomers.

Based on the new War Department program of training, there are being prepared new textbooks for the R. O. T. C. These books will be published and ready for use by next year. They will be the most up-to-date and comprehensive yet published.

The Military Department is making ready for the closing of school by cleaning and preparing for the time when the uniforms, rifles, etc., will be turned in.

We quote the following from the Monday issue of the Charlotte Observer:

“Capt. George H. Weems, in charge of the R. O. T. C. at Davidson College, will address the monthly luncheon of the Reserve Officers Association at Ivey’s dining hall Wednesday at 1 o'clock. Maj. E. H. Morrison will preside. An invitation is extended to all reserve officers of the Eighth and Ninth Congressional districts to attend this luncheon of the Charlotte chapter.”

MRS. ROBSON WILL ADDRESS STUDENTS

(Continued from page 1)

A large number are expected for this meeting when Mr. Williams will make his farewell address. Davidson is losing a good man.Man, but his work will never die on the campus. For the last vesper service of the Y. Davidson, which will be on May 24th, there will be a student meeting. This meeting will be held on the steps of the library. The speakers for the occasion will be some of the outstanding men in the outgoing Senior Class. This is just a try-out. If it succeeds, every man must do his part. If every man does his part, then the meeting will be a success, and several similar meetings can be arranged for next year.

CALENDAR

THURSDAY—
7:15—Eumenean Literary Society.
7:15—Philanthropic Literary Society.

FRIDAY—
3:30—Wake Forest vs. Davidson, here.

SATURDAY—
3:30—Wake Forest Fresh vs. Davidson Fresh, here.
3:30—Duke University vs. Davidson at Monroe.
7:30—Movies in Gym.

SUNDAY—
10:15—Volunteer Band.
1:15—C. E. Training Class.
2:00—Ministerial Band.
6:15—“Y” Vesper Service.
7:00—Court of Control.

TUESDAY—
7:15—Pandemic Literary Society.
7:15—Metrophilian Literary Society.

This open-air meeting is, 1926

QUIPS AND CRANKS STAFF

Editorial Staff
Editor-in-Chief: Hy By Shiawassee
Literary Editor: R. W. Graves
Associate Literary Editor: C. E. Houston, Jr.
Athletic Editor: L. D. Wharton, Jr.
Associate Athletic Editor: V. S. Broyles
Art Editor: G. R. Shaddock
Associate Art Editor: E. K. Regen
Photographic Editor: W. H. Allison
Calendar Editor: Ries
Humor Editor: W. H. Allison
Chief Typist: ANG

Business Staff
J. P. Gladney
Asst. Adv. Mgr.: P. J. Garrison
Subscription Mgr.: J. E. Moore
Assistant Subscription Mgr.: H. Boulware

SENIOR CLASS REMODELS THE DRINKING FOUNTAIN AS CUSTOMARY DONATION

In the past, it has been the custom of the Senior Class to present to the College a gift as a memorial to their class. The class of '24 presented to the college the attractive brick pillars at the entrance to the campus. This year, the Senior Class of 1925 has chosen as their gift to the college the remodeling of the drinking fountain, which is located in the center of the campus. It will be constructed of brick and cement and will conform in architecture to Chambers. The plans of the fountain were drawn by Mr. Hybbs, the architect of New Chambers, and presented to the Senior Class as a gift. Blythe and Isenhour of Charlotte are contractors for this work and expect to have it completed by the latter part of May.

WILDCAT DEBATERS TAKE (Continued from page 1)

His eloquence and logic in concluding the negative arguments by showing the harmful effects of the proposed plan and in giving a concise summary of the negative arguments. The clash of the first speeches was enhanced even more by the fire and vigor that featured the rebuttals. The affirmative order was maintained in the rebuttal, while for the negative, Bowie, Wharton, and Parker spoke in the order named. The final negative rebuttal by Parker was a decisive factor in the outcome of the debate. Dr. W. H. Frazer, president of Queens, presided over the exercises. Harllee Branch, alternate and manager for Davidson, served as timekeeper. Following the debate, the speakers and audience were tendered a delightful reception by the Queens girls in the college parlors. A resume of the debate would be incomplete without mention of the skillful and indefatigable coaching of Prof. Carl Wachter, who has already won recognition for his ability as a forensic pilot since his recent arrival at Davidson.

DAVIDSON CHEMISTS DISCUSS PROTEINS (Continued from page 1)

Those attending the meeting from Davidson were Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, Dr. J. Douglas, Prof. W. L. Porter, Prof. M. M. Douglas, Prof. O. J. Thies, J. W. W. Mebane, Prof. O. J. Thies, J. Appleby, and P. M. Patterson.

SPANISH NIGHT (Continued from page 1)

To Spanish, were next offered and were enjoyed very much. The feature of the program followed next. The big bullfight was similar in every respect to those presented in Spain. The matadors, the picadors, the bull himself, and the wildly excited crowd were all truly Spanish. From the opening strains of the grand march to the final death thrust of the matador, everyone was thrilled and awed. The bull evaded the lances and darts until the mad plunges told on his wind and he gave up the struggle. The program was closed with a final selection from the orchestra, “La Paloma.” A large crowd of students were present and the hall was nearly filled to its capacity. A neat sum was cleared by the Spanish Club and this will be split with The Davidson.

And he has lived to see it

Back in 1885, Thomas A. Edison succeeded in transmitting electricity at 220 volts for one mile—an achievement and a promise. In 1881, Edison shipped to the Paris Exposition his “Jumbo” dynamo—eighth wonder of the world. It could light 1000 lamps. Now there are G-E generators large enough to supply current for over a million lamps, each with four times the candle-power of the lamp of 1881. The General Electric Company produces other electrical apparatus which makes it possible to transmit power over great distances. It has put electricity in seven-league boots. In its laboratories, scientists are now experimenting with voltages ten times as great as the highest now in use. If you are interested in learning more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete set of these advertisements.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.

The promise was fulfilled a few months ago, when electricity at 220,000 volts was transmitted two hundred and forty miles to supply Los Angeles with light and power. Now five billion dollars are invested in electric power plants. A stupendous figure that testifies to the alertness of thousands of college-trained men who have been leaders in the production and use of electric power. The electrical era has only dawned. Each year some new machine or discovery makes it possible to apply electricity in unexpected ways. The graduate of today will find electricity directly or indirectly a means for even greater accomplishments, no matter what his calling in life may be.