THE DAVIDSONIAN, SEPTEMBER 17, 1925

DATE ON ALLOP OFFORD FRESHMAN SCHEDULE 1925

Oct. 8—High Point at High Point.
Oct. 15—P. C. Freshmen at Davidson.
Oct. 23—Furman Freshmen at Greenville.
Oct. 30—Duke Freshmen at Durham.
Nov. 13—N. C. State Freshmen at Davidson.
Nov. 20—Clemson Freshmen at Clemson.

Red Christenberry—"Dearest, will you marry me?”
Young Thing—“I can’t marry you, but I'll always respect your good taste.”

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The Tate-Brown Company
CLOTHIERS

“COLLEGE”
That's what the new Society Brand Boulevard says to you. College clothes are not like other clothes. College men wear
what they like and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it, so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand makes
clothes for college men. That’s why they make the best.

DOBBS HATS
FRENCH, SHRINER AND URNER OXFORDS
MANHATTAN SHIRTS

Grid Team Built Around Twelve '24 Letter Men
Reserves Crowding Regulars for Positions on Varsity Squad—Season Opens Saturday

Tired and dusty—some of them—from many weary hours of travel, the Davidson Wildcats came back to Davidson, once more to
begin their football practice. They came back around September 1, when there were but few students to greet them and
to give them encouragement as they donned their uniforms, to go out on the sultry field and under the beating
rays of the sun to practice for hours each day. The season will soon have begun. In the interim of
September 1-19, the Wildcat mentors have been training, drilling, and working with the men, in a tireless effort to put
an eleven on the gridiron this season that will come through with victories. They have been mindful of the intense
heat, however, and at times have slackened in their practice, realizing that it does not pay to work them too
hard.

Twelve letter men returned; seven did not. Around that 12 the coaches will build their team. Even though the freshman
class of last season sent up some good men, and even though the trainers have some good second string material
from last season, such regular varsity men as Boggs and Davis are going to be sorely missed, as well as
the substitutes Hunt, Covington, McAulay, and Summers.

The 12 men returning were Baker, Vance, Laird, McConnell, Pinkney, Bohannon, Sappenfield, Black, McComb, Leggette, Anderson. With that even dozen
men, and three dozen more, will be built the Wildcat machine—as yet an unknown quantity.

There can be much speculation over the prospects of the entire season. The extremely optimistic see nothing but a glorious
season ahead. The semi-optimistic look at a splendid reserve material and say that Davidson will have a good team, but
use no superlatives in describing it. Then there are the conservatives, who are not willing to commit themselves, but prefer
to remain silent and watch the season progress.

Twenty-two men were out for backfield one day last week, and 24 for the line, which is somewhat out of
proportion for the number of places to be filled. But in that 24 linemen are some men who will be
well accounted for before the season is over. There is Red Grey pushing Joe McConnell for center. McNeil, Baker, Maulden,
Mitchell, and Vance are battling away for guard positions, Baker having been shifted to that berth this season. Lincoln, Anderson,
Laird, and Ritchie are a foursome of hefty players, two of which are going to play tackle. Then there are
the ends, Pinkney and Bohannon, alternates on right end of last season, are working zealously and tirelessly for a regular
place. They know that Arrowood and McEachern, of last year’s freshman team, are pushing them close, and the best man
of the four wins. They are all working hard and Coach Monk Younger will have a good second string to
run in.

Sappenfield will most likely run the team, with Hewlett being used as a substitute quarter. The coaches were somewhat worried
for a while for a substitute quarter, until Hewlett came back. Black is having—

(Continued on page 5)

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Brick and Fancy Creams—Eskimo Pies
Davidson, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

The surrounding hills of Davidson will echo and re-echo two days from today with the shrill blast of a referee’s
whistle, and the 1925 Wildcat season will have been launched. The Wildcat will have been let loose once more to
begin its clawing, scrapping, fighting way through a season of 10 games. Not only will the Elon game Saturday mark
the beginning of the Wildcat season, but North Carolina football fans will have their chance to witness the first game
of 1925. Only one other game will be played in the South that same day.

Eleven men will be lined up on the field. Perhaps 30 more willbe sitting on the sidelines anxiously awaiting a
chance to match their brawn and brain against their opponents. And where will the almost 600 remaining men be? They
are expected to be on the bleachers, giving their best in lusty yells. And it is thought that most of
them will be there.

“What do you think we will do with Elon?” is asked among the students frequently. Then someone chimes in, “I
hope we win by a large score—at least more than 14 to 0, as we did last year.” Maybe when
the one who cries for a big score thinks a second time he will see the bad psychology therein. If
the score should be a large one in our favor, the public would be expecting the Wildcats to go through
the season like a tornado. If, on the other hand, the difference between the two ends is small, the public
will wonder if Davidson has anything like a team up here. Maybe they thought last year that the “thin red
line” would crumble under the onslaught of far heavier opponents. They had the privilege of changing their opinion. To keep
the score down, we think, is the best policy. Elon lost almost her entire line, according to reports in the
paper. Other reports, less authentic, say that she will have a better team than last year. They will scrap, no
matter what the true status of their team may be. Some of the students seem to think that Davidson will
have a better team than that of last season. Some think that it will be about the same. Some think
it will not be as good. And finally, some don’t think at all.

PREVIOUS ENROLLMENT
(Continued from page 1)

The class of ’27 has taken the biggest slump this year as regards numerical strength and is the smallest class
on the hill. Out of the 160 members which it boasted last year only 76 have been signed up on
the files of the registrar. As one is a co-ed, the number left in the ranks is only 75. This
is a decided contrast to that of the class of ’26 last year, which had a total of 118 registered.
This session’s Senior class outnumbers its predecessor by five. 93 members enrolled as compared with the 88 who enrolled last
fall as candidates for the diploma. Only one student has been registered for post-graduate work up to the present time.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

seem as promising as those of last year, due to the fact that the squad is smaller and that last
year’s class contained an unusual amount of good material. Coach Mattox has started work with a rush, showing plainly that
he will make the best out of whatever material he may have. At this early date he has been unable
to get a line on any of the men personally, as only two practices have been held. However, he states
that a number of the men have been showing up well. A few of the candidates were captains of their
prep school teams, among whom are Homegreen, of San Antonio Academy, and Flynn, of Darlington Military Academy. Covington, Myers, Black,
McConnell, and Lindberg seem to be above the average also. The Freshman schedule includes six games with the leading fresh
teams of North and South Carolina. This will force the men to extend themselves to keep up the record of
last year’s team. The managers report that 79 uniforms have been issued, so that competition for berths on the team
will be strong.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT

The records made by both the varsity and freshmen last year were good ones. The varsity won seven, lost one
and tied two, her goal line being crossed but three times. The Wildkittens won six and lost but one—the last
one, to Furman freshmen, from which the varsity are going to draw a wealth of material down in Greenville.

CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE
THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24
YELLOW CAB CO.
Charlotte, N. C.

ALL KINDS OF ACCESSORY CLOTHING
SHOWN EVERY FRIDAY IN
College Display Room
Joe Harrison Clothing Co.
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N.C.
