4. THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH........ Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. ........ Managing Editor
L. D. Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. J. Assistant Managing Editor
MILTON Athletic Editor
R. B. Editor
A. Y. Editor
A. H. Editor
G. A. Editor
J. Editor
F. Editor

H. D. BURKE Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH Assistant Business Manager
V. S. BROYLES Assistant Business Manager
H. A. ALEXANDER Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON Subscription Manager
BILL DOUGLASS Assistant
JULIAN LAKE Service Department
MIRTH CRAWFORD Assistant

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
F. HOLLINGSWORTH
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
MARTIN
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Tr.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
K. REGEN
E. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS
G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
B. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

One more week—then Christmas!

A thing of beauty is an expense forever, especially near Christmas time.

We've been hearing from the Prince of Wales, off and on, ever since he has taken up horse racing.

The intra-mural sports have taken the campus during the past few weeks. Boxing and wrestling, the sports of the ancient Hellenese, are much in favor here.

These standardized, time-saving letters have flooded the collegiate territory. Before long there will be a course in mental telepathy offered that will put Uncle Sam’s mail service in the shade. Would we be afraid to read our girl’s mind when she gets wroth?

The fellows are anxiously visiting the post office after every train bringing mail to Jaybirdsville. We all hope that dad won’t put off sending that check to come on like we put off reading parallel, until the night before it is due. If he does we will have to walk home or stay here. Students’ dads please take notice!

The Hill, long famed in song and story, will be deserted soon, like a banquet hall after the advent of Banquo’s spectre. Flivvers, automobiles, train and feet will take the fellows to the four corners of the Southland and West Virginia. Felix, the fierce and ferocious fighting feline, will be all alone till the boys come home.

Red Grange has struck two or three snags in his march toward success. His managers, arranging games for the edification of the populace, have placed him in a position where he has to play about five or six games a week. Any football man will tell you that no one can stand up under this sort of schedule. We suggest a little slacking down before he has to go to some sanitarium and spend all the money he has earned settling his frayed nerves.

Skit, proprietaire de luxe of the White Filling Station, has announced his mid-winter statistics. He says that college boys have bought less Christmas presents this year than usual. Post cards have found a ready sale, but candy—nix.

The students certainly miss the filling station that held sway up over the line in Iredell County. Those luscious hot dogs and crackling cakes have gone the way of all flesh and the fellows mourn.

The Spirit of Christmas

THE Christmas season, gladdest of all the year, is here with us. The spirit of Christmas, that elusive but very human feeling for others, once more instills into happy hearts the true gift of the day. This is the one day of all the year when all hearts bear the same kindly spirit of love and sacrifice. All nature lends her moods to that of the joyous Yule-tide season. It is the time for celebration and great joy.

Since that memorable night, almost two thousand years ago in the dim past, when the Christ child was born in Bethlehem, the spirit of love has continued in human hearts. The radiant and beaming star that hung over the velvet darkness of the Judean hills and showed the shepherds where their Lord lay, still shines as a symbol of divine love. The angelic voices that proclaimed peace on earth and good will to men still echo the spirit of love and sacrifice that has rung down the ages.

Through the early days when pagans and Christians struggled to establish their beliefs; through the dark ages of the feudal period, the spirit of Christmas has never faltered, nor has it been supplanted. It grows in strength with each new generation and with the succeeding years. It lives because it is as true as life itself.

In Merrie Englande, the day was observed with great joy. The dragging in of the huge yule log, the lighting of the waxen tapers that made brilliant the lofty cathedral windows, the flaming plum puddings that graced the tables, are all reminiscent of the glad season. In our own land the day is observed with great rejoicing. The advent of old Saint Nicholas, the patron saint of childhood, brings joy to every childish heart. And even in this hustling, bustling, work-a-day world of ours, the spirit of Christmas is as real as mother love and everlasting as the hills.

The same spirit that animated the heart of old Scrooge still obtains. The gift of the magi is the spirit that we experience, the kindnesses and the good deeds that we do for our fellow men. The costly gifts from the East, that the wise men brought to Bethlehem are no more precious than the smallest remembrance one gives us with the prompting of real love.

It is only meet that we should pause on this day of all days to consider what it means. Lest we forget that it is the birthday of the King, a day to commemorate the Savior of all mankind, we should turn our thoughts to Him. And only by serving others can we fulfill the divine wish. The essence of Christ’s command that we love our neighbor as ourself is found in the true spirit of Christmas. The spirit of Christmas should last from one glad Christmas day, through the bleak days of winter, the radiant glory of spring, the warmth of summer and the splendor of fall, to another Christmas day, thus completing a cycle of love and good deeds, to the fulfillment of which we should work.

THE RISE FROM OBSCURITY

Amidst the wild clamoring of most colleges of the nation for prominent high and prep school athletes, many coaches and most alumni might turn their eyes toward Davidson. Amidst the popularity of freshmen football players, other members of the lower class might turn their thoughts to Lucian Wells—and seek to follow him.

Two years is but a short time, but it’s a far cry from the early days of scrub football in 1923 to the captaincy of the best football eleven in the state in mid-December of 1925. It’s a far cry from November 9th of his sophomore year when he first played a game of college ball till October 3rd when his wonderful playing on Wearn Field sunk the championship crew ofWake Forest. Wells’ election is a triumph of hard work.

Minor Chords

INSPIRATION

Just a little thought or two,
Comes to me each day;
Just a little thought of you,
Cheers me on my way.

When the way is hard and steep,
When I can't go through,
When I fear to make the leap,
Then I think of you.

Strength comes into every limb,
I can do or die;
Whether fail and fall, or win,
I at least can try.

When it seems my hope is gone,
And I'd like to stop,
Thought of you keeps spurring on,
Till I reach the top.

In the night you are my star,
Guiding toward the day,
In the day you shine afar,
Guiding right my way.

Just a little thought of you,
Comes to me each day;
Just a little love from you,
Helps me on my way.

When at last the prize is won,
And when thanks are due;
To the one who really won,
I'll give thanks to you.

And men who have not starred in fresh football games, whose names have never rung with cheers of high school playing, might model their future course along the lines followed by Wells. And who knows but some future captain of the Davidson eleven may be discovered in the practice this spring? We congratulate Wells for his football ability, we congratulate him for his recent election, but we admire him most for his rise from obscurity to fame.

Open Forum

MINNIE, LUTHER, AND DASH

For the past three or four weeks it seems to have been the hobby of someone in the town to poison dogs. Two have been known to die from effects of poison eaten in food, and another dog was only saved by the quick action of Dr. McConnell, who found the animal in a serious condition.

Ever since college opened in the fall, “Minnie” and “Luther” have been good mascots of some of the students, and the fellows were very fond of them. “Luther” was the official mascot of the cross-country team, as he followed them on their four-mile journey every afternoon. But they are both dead as the result of someone’s cruelty and decided lack of sportsmanship. If a man has to kill a dog why does he not load his gun and put him out of his misery at once, instead of making him suffer agony before he dies?

“Dash,” Dr. MacConnell’s prize bird dog, was poisoned last Saturday morning, and was found stricken just in time to be saved by a dose of medicine. None of these dogs, especially the latter, were doing a bit of harm on the campus, and it seems only an act of cruelty to animals in the extreme to so treat these dumb creatures. As it is, the students have no pets upon the campus. The wildcat is a little too belligerent to fondle, and dogs are about the only animals here that can be petted. It therefore does seem that these animals could be allowed to live and enjoy life, and to give a little diversion to the students.

The basketeers, as the sports scribes call them, have started on their annual winter journey to stardom. Under an all-state coach they should make some good showings this season. That little win over Georgia Tech last year and the rest of those games are over. It’s time to think of what we're going to do this year.

THE CHRISTMAS STOCKING

In days of old when knights were bold each wore a suit of tin to keep from off his limbs the cold and frostbite off his shin. They hailed with joy the Yuletide eve, Kris Kringle and his deers. These vassals would the bowl relieve and give Kris hearty cheers.

Before the fireplace’s flaming glow, each noble hung his stocking of hand-wrought steel. 'Twas quite a show to see heat his suit. When Kringle came into the hall he found the stout boots there, each weighing fifty pounds and tall, like spectres on a stair. He filled each leg with treats to suit a viscount’s taste, a peck or so of ancient sweets, or an ale cask in his haste. And if perchance the good ale spilled and rusted brazen toes, the good sir knight with rusty boot found comfort killed one clothes.

In grandma's day they hung a sock of wool or cotton make from high-set mantles neath the clock which ticked for old sake. This stocking chaste was good and strong and fully two feet wide. Its length could hold a book of song or phonograph inside. Old Santa Claus grew weak whene’er he saw this stocking yawn. To fill such things he’d work a year from night till early dawn. He filled each utmost crack and nook with every sort of sweet and in the toe he'd place a book by daring Snake Eye Pete.

But in this age of jazz and gin, the socks have changed their guise. They're made of gauzy silk as thin as caterpillar’s eyes. When Flapper Fannie hangs her hose beside the Morris chair, she writes to Santa of her woes and all the boy can spare. When St. Nick creeps into the room he cannot see her stocking because the darkness and the gloom makes such a business shocking. Transparent hose is all the rage, but pity poor St. Nick. How can the old boy fill his page when played a scurvy trick? And Dad says, “Nick, why don’t you delay, let’s get it through, by heck! For after all is said today, it’s me that signs the checks.”

The governor was making a Christmas tour of the state prison. The convict stepped on his toe. “Pardon me,” he said to the governor.

ALLEE SAMEE

Santa Claus, St. Nicholas, Noel, Sandy Klaws, Dad—they’re all the same. The negro preacher was asked for the definition of the word, Yuletide, by one of the devout black sheep of his flock. “Well, you see hit’s lak dis’,” said the dusky divine as he muffed his hands and rolled both eyes, “Yuletide comes from de word ‘yule.’ And ‘yule’ means dat yule git drunk dis Christmas, yule beat yo’ wife, yule fergit to pay yo’ church dues, yule be uh o’dinary sinner, and if you knows whut’s best, yule pay me dat ten dollars you owes me.”

BY THE SIDE OF THE ROAD

There are curious souls who delight to know
Of flappers and moonshine and jazz;
Who think when they see a young cake-eater drunk
That’s the spirit that every youth has.

There are gossiping folk who like to tell
Of all the scandal they can
But I like to park by the side of the road
And arouse the suspicion of man.

Let me darken my car by the side of the road
Where the line of cars go by.
Let me draw my curtains and pull down my shades
As if two there were shy.

I would not sit where the blazing lights
Reveal my little plan.
I would park my car by the side of the road
And arouse the suspicion of man.

I see from my car by the side of the road
Eyes that cut like a knife
Eyes that gaze with a look of disgust
And turn and wink at their wife.

I laugh up my sleeve at their frowns and their sighs
For I have a definite plan
I park my car by the side of the road
Just to arouse the suspicions of man.

—Contributed.

DOWN IN FLORIDA

A new boom sweeps clean.
Realtors wise and Northerners foolish,
A sub-division is the shortest distance between two real estate offices.
Never count your mortgages until they are due.
He who laughs last is an Englishman.