THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

Henry Martyn White, ’23, and Barnard Pitts, ex-'26, have been seeing the world through a porthole. They have been down
the Mississippi River, through the Gulf of Mexico, and Panama Canal, by California and back to New York. They are
now planning for a more extensive trip to Europe. Last week they were on the hill to visit their many
friends, probably for the last time in a good while.

Miss Margaret Wilson, of Charlotte, N. C., spent the weekend with Miss Grace James.

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality - Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

WRIGLEY
“after every meal”

Sweet Thing—What do you know about Fielding?
Flake—Nothing much, I play pitcher.

She—I told you that you might kiss my hand and you've kissed my lips too. How dare you!
It—I live from hand to mouth.

D. G.—Piggy, how did you make out in your singing act?
Piggy—Great—after the first verse they yelled “fine.” After the second they yelled “imprisonment!”

“That finished my tale,” said the cat as he backed into the lawn mower.

(in restaurant)
Waitress, please find out if your colleague from whom I ordered this steak some time ago is still employed here.

Norwood

Take care of your teeth! Use Wrigley’s regularly. It removes food particles from the crevices. Strengthens the gums. Combats acid
mouth. Refreshing and beneficial!

A Chinese taxicab driver sent in the following bill:
Ten goes,
Ten comes,
At 50¢ a went—$10.00.

“Ah wins.”
“What yuh got?”
“Three aces.”
“No yuh don't. What yuh got?”
“Two nines and a razor.”
“Yuh shoh do, Ah wins.”
“How come yuh so lucky?”

When a woman's lips are cracked
She uses grease ‘tis said.
I wonder why one sees a man
Use vaseline upon his head?

Flapper—"So you won the 100?
Goody—"I did.”
Flapper—"How far did you throw it?”

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.

Some men get ten thousand miles and more out of a set of tires—and some men tell the truth.

John Currie was being measured for a dinner coat by the tailor.
“Which do you prefer, sir,” said the tailor, “a coat that fits before or after?”

Clyde Long—"I once loved a girl who made a fool of me.”
Bill Green—"What a lasting impression some girls make.”

'28—"I sure like the Juniors.”
'25—"Why?”
'28—"They beat the Sophs last year.”

4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit

For Sale—A few good hens, now laying eggs, also new potatoes, corn, and cabbage.

Checking Accounts Invited

Doc Brown—"I want to buy a makeup box.”
Skit—"A make-up box? We don't keep cosmetics.”
Doc—"It's a box of candy I want. Snap out of it. I'm two hours late for that date now.”

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.

Phonograph Records 50¢ each

The nearer the time for the performance comes the greater grows the interest in it. Minstrels and carnival are to
be dished out in right generous proportions by the Junior class Saturday night. Preparations have been made for a large
audience and the general manager isn’t expecting that there'll be any go wanting for someone to hold them down.

The entire presentation is divided into two parts, the first being the minstrel show for The Follies of 1926, and
the second part will be the various booths placed along the sides and in the secluded corners of the gym.
Besides the general invitation, the Junior class extended a special one to each of the other three classes, in meetings
called for that very purpose.

In the first part of the minstrel there is to be an overture: “All About Girls,” and several solos by
the various songsters of the college. “When You and I Were Seventeen,” lovingly warbled by D. G. Wilson, will come
next. Then Fred Smith comes on with “Hot Tamale Baby,” and is succeeded by Piggy Martin with “Oh Mable.” To
the show has been added a monologue by Martin, the K. K. Quartet, the Soph quartet, and those well-known black-faced
comedians, the Kiser brothers. The concluding scene of the minstrel will be a play written by Fred Smith and titled,
“Hot Dogs and Cold Feet.” The whole presentation, according to those who have been slipping behind the scenes to watch
practice, is mighty good. There are to be quite a number of real comedians sure enough.

Super Minstrel and Carnival Planned for Saturday Evening

MEMBERS OF NEXT YEAR’S MAGAZINE (Continued from page 1)
Exchange department. The associate editors will be H. C. Lawson and A. H. Hollingsworth. Both of these men are well
known in literary circles, and are among the contributors to this year’s magazine. The staffmet last Monday morning and elected
R. S. Wilson to manage the business affairs of the Magazine. During the past year, he was assistant to L.
L. Deck, under whose guidance the debt was wiped out. Wilson has not yet announced his assistants but will do
so within the next few weeks. It has not been decided how many issues of the Magazine will be published
next year. It is the aim of the staff to keep the publication out of debt, and only such issues
as will be consistent with that policy will be published.

Makes Autos Go 49 Miles On Gallon of Gasoline

An amazing new device has been perfected by James A. May, of 7025 Lacotah Bldg., Sioux Falls, So. Dak., that
cuts down gas consumption, removes all carbon, prevents spark plug trouble and overheating. Many cars have made over 49 miles
on a gallon. Anyone can install it in five minutes. Mr. May wants agents and is offering to send one
free to one auto owner in each locality. Write him today.

my life.” ae ‘ ' folks who have any sense of humor at all. Her—"Well, run along, I'm not running
a ‘ % Come on out even if you haven't. This will Prep school. be as good a chance as
any to develop some. The minstrels par excellence are Fred Smith, Flake Laird, Colin Murchison, and Harllee Branch. They will
put out some new, original, unused, first-class laugh-producing laughs. Our Famous Bell Ringer's Quartet: H. I. Wilkinson, Hugh E. Wilkinson,
H. Ernest Wilkinson, Hugh Ernest Wilkinson. These men try. In conclusion, the evening will be given over completely to the
carnival. Among the booths are to be found on that ghastly floor: the fish pond, a chamber of horrors, a
fortune teller, a crazy man, and a wild man. Any one of us could take the last two parts in
the show but not anything like the ones who are engaged. They eat raw meat. Much more pleasant to some
will be the refreshment stand at which the hungry may be fed and the thirsty quenched. A special feature of
Speaking is to be the humorous magazine. But perhaps the most attractive announcement of all is that the admission to
each and every booth is to be only one cent each. Likewise, the admittance to the minstrel will be reduced
to this pre-war level for the evening. The class has been greatly helped by Professor Erwin. He has had complete
charge of directing and producing the affair. Mrs. Williams has helped out too by volunteering to decorate the gym in
purple and gold, the Junior class colors. All in all, this week promises to be “the best yet.”

The case of United States Army vs. North Carolina Mcleod, et al, was tried before a special meeting of the
General Court Martial (mock) on Wednesday, March 25, and did proceed somewhat in this manner. In that Private McLeod, alias
Runt, did knowingly and willfully leave his post of duty one morning in May, when the birds were joyfully singing
and the roses gently swaying, and he did leave with a show of haste, and after being gone too long
it did fall to the lot of said Army to post said McLeod's likeness in public places and say this-wise,
“Be it known to the world at large, this above-pictured irrational being did leave the post in a run, and
has not yet come back. Therefore, help us catch him!” Following the notice was a gentle hint saying, “To the
person securely apprehending this escaped being, we beg to insist that said person take a gift of 50 plunks.” The
plunks were, in due time, paid to Patrick O'Donawhat, traffic, 5th Ave., and Forty'leventh Street, Ben-Franklin's-town, U. S. A. Such
be the brief explanation of pre-trial procedure.

The Court came to order with a bang. The Trial Judge Advocate did right cruelly swear at the Court, being
in turn sworn at by the President of the Court, and things went forward. The evidence presented did show that
McLeod went A. W. O. L. without his Y. M. G. (You May Go) and by staying B. A. T.
(Beyond Allotted Time) he became A. F. F. J. (A Fugitive From Justice) and furthermore that he never expected to
come back. The woman in the case was “Miss” Big Thompson, alias Mamie Taylor, he-she did testify that he-she meant
to entice Pvt. McLeod, with her-his sweet young ways into forever forgetting the army. It was shown that he-she almost
made a success of the matter. The vote of the court, after all evident stories were faithfully told, was 5
to 4 for guilty, the prisoner getting the benefit of the doubt. He was voted not guilty of the charge,
but guilty of many mean little things equally as bad. The sentence was three times four plus one, administered every
five hours. Prominent members of the Court were Cadet-Second-Lts. A. S. Jones, Jr., Kelly, Wilson More, and Mr. McCarty, and
Law Member B. U. Ratchford.

BALLS CLOTHING AND HATS
BASEBALL SUPPLIES
BATS
EVERYTHING A WILDCAT NEEDS
STUDENT'S STORE
GLOVES
DRINKS
SOAP
PENNANTS
R. O. SELLARS

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

SHE EXPECTS IT---SEE OUR COMPLETE STOCK
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
