THE DAYVIDSONIAN, MAY 7, 1925 | interesting, and highly suitable, as Pragmatism is perhaps the chief movement in present-day Philosophy.
Missionary Study Classes Pragmatism Made Topic Town News Successfully Concluded at Philosophy Meeting Wildcat Hall of Fame On Monday evening
Miss Marjorie J. W. STUART GILCHRIST D*** | Number of Subjects Discussed— Various Aspects of Theory Considered—Papers Read by Houston
THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES gentlemen and eleven young ladies of | occupant of a niche in the Wildcat hall
| Next Year and Wharton the high school set. of fame. | The Philosophy Club held its regular bi-monthly meeting
Thursday night, | April 23rd, in the Pi Kappa Alpha hall. The subject of discussion for the night was Pragmatism.
The program included an analysis of John Dewey's Pragmatic philosophy, with its relation to the theory of knowledge, and also
its value as a test of truth. This was given excellent attention in a paper prepared by C. E. Houston.
Following this, and after some discussion by the club, D. B. Wharton read another paper on Pragmatism, in which certain
values and shortcomings of this tendency in modern philosophy were reviewed. He excelled in many branches of campus activity but
especially in track. He was for four years a member of the varsity track team and for two years, manager
and captain, four years leader of his class track team, and for a time the holder of the college record
for the 220-yard dash. He showed up well in other branches of athletics also; gym team, three years; class football,
basketball, and baseball, three years each. He was secretary and treasurer of the “D” club for two years. He was
also a member of the executive committee of the athletic council. Not only in athletics was he an outstanding figure
but he also played a prominent part in literary and oratorical work of the campus. He was on the Magazine
staff and Quips and Cranks staff for several years; a member and office holder of the Phi Society, member of
the Blue Pencil Club, and student councilman, and a Gryphon (An organization for the promotion of good feeling between the
classes and the upbuilding of a better college spirit.) The annual series of Discussion Groups held by the Y. M.
C. A. closed last week after a two months’ period of successful study of the theme Missions. The attendance at
these meetings held on each hall on Wednesday nights has been fair, averaging approximately 200 each night. In the opinion
of those in charge, these groups had a marked effect on the drive for the Hangchow fund, which recently went
over the top. A general attitude of seriousness toward missions seems to prevail on the campus as a result. These
groups were supervised by leaders who led the discussion, though each man present was at liberty to take part at
any time he desired. Dr. C. M. Richards, Professors Foreman, Fleagle and Wachter, and Mr. J. P. Williams visited with
the leaders in advance and each one of these men gave the leaders instruction in one of the topics to
be taken up later in the classes. Some of the subjects discussed were: “The Trend of Missions in America;” “Our
(Davidson’s) Responsibility;” “The Spread of Christianity is the Only Thing that will maintain World Peace;” “What has Christianity accomplished where
it has been given a fair trial;” and “Qualifications of a Missionary.” Next year, this branch of the work of
the Y. M. C. A. will be in charge of E. K. Regen, who has shown himself a capable worker
this year in leading a group. The ladies of the auxiliary of the Presbyterian Church held their annual birthday celebration
on Thursday last. The offering of nearly one hundred dollars, will go to the Charlotte Kemper school in Brazil. The
auxiliary was addressed by two personal friends of Miss Kemper, Mrs. Lingle of Davidson, and Mrs. Thompson of Atlanta. The
Book Lovers’ Club met with Miss Mamie Withers on Friday afternoon. Miss Maude Vinson read a splendid paper on Queen
Victoria. Mrs. W. N. Mebane entertained at tea on Wednesday afternoon, in honor of her grandmother, Mrs. Killian. When the
cake was served, the pink candles revealed the fact that this was a birthday celebration. Among those who attended the
meetings of the Academy of Science, in Raleigh last week were Drs. J. M. Douglas, and the retiring president, H.
B. Arbuckle, Professor Porter, Messrs. Thies and Mebane, Paul Patterson and James Appleby were student representatives. Miss May Ellenwood has
returned to New York after a stay of several weeks in Davidson. Rev. Mr. Clegg, pastor of the Methodist Church,
has been quite ill for several days. One question that always arises in the mindof every Ga., are visiting Mr.
and Mrs. Henge-|Giersch, Carolina, fourth; Tucker, State, | Carolina, president of the Association, in his | MOON) aoo ee eee
cee 0 0000 0| serious thinking college man veld. fifth. address urged the publications to expand!Oden, p ------.------_-- 1-0 0
0 0 0; : i 120 high hurdles—Time, 15.3 seconds; |their scope and to print news of state and|xC, Cathey
------ pacwos 1 otr000 is, “What am I going to-do Moore, Carolina, first; Clarke, State, sec-| national interest. He felt
that the local|xxMcGeachy ----------- 10 000 0O| after: graduation or during ond; Daniel, Wake Forest, third; Mc-|items were being over-emphasized
in the | 5 SSS Se | vacation?” This is an im- Yellow Cabs Pherson, Carolina, fourth; Yarborough, | college
press. leclOtal Seen ununc sein oe 39 312 2710 4) portant question, worthy of Are Good Cabs Just Phone Any
Hour of the 24 Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte YOU’LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB Look For
the Black Top Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co. Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s We Invite Your Business LARGE
OR SMALL INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO. “ON THE SQUARE” Carolina, fifth. One mile run—Time, 4 minutes, 27 sec- onds; Bell, Carolina,
first; M. D. Ranson, Carolina, second; Buchanan, Carolina, third; P. J. Ranson, Carolina, fourth; Wright, State, fifth. 440-yard run—Time, 52
seconds; Ed- wards, Carolina, first; Watt, Carolina, second; Sides, State, third; Sherman, State, fourth; Hackney, Carolina, fifth. 220-yard dash—Time, 22
seconds; By- rum, State, first; Goodykoontz, Davidson, second; McPherson, Carolina, third; Rackley, Wake Forest, fourth; Tucker, State, fifth. 220 low
hurdles—Time, 24.4 seconds; Moore, Carolina, first; Giersch, Carolina, second; Daniel, Wake Forest, third; Huggins, Carolina, fourth; Clarke, State, fifth. 880-yard
run—Purser, Carolina, first; Redmon, Duke, second; Goodwin, Caro- lina, third; Daniels, Carolina, fourth; Lambeth, Carolina, fifth. Pole vault—Height, 11 feet;
Pridgen, State, first; McFayden, Carolina, and An- derson, Davidson, tied for second; Cor- bett, Carolina; Roberts, Duke, and Parrish, Wake
Forest, tied for fourth. High jump—Height, 5 feet 9 inches; Calhoun, Davidson, and Matthews, State, tied for first; Beverly, Duke,
third; Am- brose, Carolina, fourth; Morris, State, fifth. Shot put—Distance, 41 feet, 11 1-2 inches; Ripple, State, first; Fordham, Carolina,
second; Williams, Carolina, third; Caldwell, Duke, fourth; Jenkins, Carolina, fifth. Discus throw—111 feet 7 1-2 inches; Fordham, Carolina, first; Lamb,
State, second; Black, State, third; Cook, State, fourth; Umberger, Duke, fifth. Javelin throw—Fordham, Carolina, distance, 163 feet, 11 1-2 inches;
Ripple, State, second; McComb, Davidson, third; Jenkins, Carolina, fourth; Peaslee, Carolina, fifth. Broad jump—Distance 21 feet, 4 inches; Ambrose, Carolina,
first; Daniel, Wake Forest, second; Woodard, Carolina, and McMillan, Davidson, tied for third; Prid- gen, State, fifth. In the open
discussion, which followed, problems of circulation, financing, reporting and faculty supervision were dealt with, the latter problem receiving the most
attention. Mr. J. A. Parham delivered an address on “College Students and the Newspaper.” “Newspaper work is the most thrilling
busi- ness in the world,” he said. He emphasized that it was real hard work which had as its aim
getting the new things first and present- ing them so as to please the majority of the public. In his
closing remarks Mr. Parham advised the editors to watch the daily papers constantly and to keep up with the latest
things in journalism. On Saturday morning the following offi- cers were elected: E. G. Moore, of State College, president; W.
E. Milton, of David- son, first vice-president; Miss Eleanor Ven- neman, of N. C. C. W., second vice-presi- dent; Miss
Ruth Efird, of Salem College, secretary, and Miss Dixie Hines, of Greens- boro College, treasurer. In the selecting of the
best college news- paper and magazine, which is done at each convention, The Davidsonian was chosen the best newspaper in
the state, and the Archive, of Duke University, as the best magazine. The same choice was made at the convention
at Guilford last fall. The invitation of the University of North Carolina to entertain the Association next November was accepted.
The executive committee in its report rec- ommended that The Carolina Magazine, of the University of North Carolina, be rein-
stated into full membership in the Associa- tion and that a certain part of the income of the Association be
given the publication en- tertaining the convention to help defray the expenses. Both of these recommendations met the approval of
the delegates. The resolutions committee presented two resolutions which were adopted by the con- vention. The first was that the
convention go on record as being opposed to faculty cen- sorship of the college press. The second was an appreciation
of the hospitality of the Da- vidson publications in entertaining the con- vention. The treasurer’s report showed the Associa- tion
on a sound financial basis. The address of the morning was delivered by Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Education x
Hit for Vick in ninth. xx Batted for Oden in ninth. Summary: Two-base hits, C. Cathey, Three-base hits, White; home
runs, Mc- Dowal, Kendall; sacrifice hits, none; stolen bases, Bigger, Kidd, Maulden; double plays, Kugler to McAulay to Ar- rowood;
base on balls, off Bigger 1, off Poole 2, off Maulden 0, off Oden 0; hits, off Bigger 12 in
9 innings with 3 runs, off Maulden 7 with 4 runs in 6 1-3 innings, off Poole two with 5
runs in 0 innings, off Oden 5 with 4 runs in 2 2-3 innings; losing pitcher, Maulden; umpire, Henge- veld;
time, 2.05. and Psychology at Davidson College. His subject was “The Psychology of the News Item,” and he dealt with
this from the stand- point of both the reporter and the reader. Items relating to the family, inventions, com- petitions,
pride, self-assertion, sociability, and acquisition, arouse the most interest in the reader, he stated. He pointed out the im- portance
of the first sentence in an article calling it the index where the reader should get his information, the body
being the place for details. He stated that the item should be clear, intelligent and above all should convey the
right impression. The Davidsonian, official organ of the Davidson student body, received a big ma- jority of the votes cast
and was declared the best college paper in North Carolina. This is the second time in two years that this
honor has been accorded The Davidson- ian. The Duke University Archive was chosen as the best magazine. serious consideration. In
a very definite way the life insurance business offers you the opportunity for suc- cess. In no field is there
a greater chance for the college man. Write to us for particulars. LIFE INSURANCE CO. Greensboro, N. C. A. W.
McALISTER PRESIDENT H. B. GUNTER Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr. CENTRAL Dyeing Largest 8 E. Trade St. and MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dry Cleaning Shoe Shine In Connection Oldest HAT SHOP Pressing Best CHARLOTTE Remember Mother With Candy White Drug Company
