THE DAVIDSONIAN, FEBRUARY 26, 1925

The Freshman class has again been in session here yesterday. The list gives the names, addresses, and classes of the various alumni and follows:

To the Men of '24,
Three short months and the first meeting of our class, within a year, will be called to order. Make the attendance full. Let's get together and talk over the past year; a great year for old Davidson in more ways than one. Athletics have been a great success, the endowment has been materially increased, and the spirit of the old college is more able than ever.

Drop that work and catch the train for Davidson. You will see more old friends there than you ever will see again. The Class of 1925 has planned a commencement which means an enjoyable time for everyone; we should be there to help send them off. And, then, there are a few ideas which some of the men want to present for organization in the future, and for keeping in better touch with old friends.

Ride the Southern to Jaybirds-ville on June first.

Randolph Jones, Jr.

FRESH CLASS DRESSES UP JONES, 24, WRITES AGAIN

The Freshman class has again been seen with rakes or shovels repairing the athletic field. Others may be seen drawing the roller around the track, ironing it out. The work should be finished in fine shape before all the Freshmen have their part in the work. Young man and teaching, the work done and sites are already beginning to improve in appearance.

HIGH SCHOOLS INVITED

State championships will be decided by the results of this contest. Coach Rawson is planning to enter a freshman team in the relay and field events of the day, and prospects seem bright for the Wildkittens. The entrance list closes on March 7th, and many high schools are hurrying to get in their entrance blanks. No entrance fee will be charged for entering teams in the carnival and the meet will be held solely for the purpose of encouraging competition among secondary schools.

ALUMNI NOTES

Synod of North Carolina
Rev. H. N. McDiarmid, '11, Kinston; Rev. J. N. H. Summerell, '73, New Bern; Mr. Ruffner Campbell, '47, Asheville; Rev. Byron Clark, '00, Salisbury; Rev. D. Brown, '03, China Grove; Rev. A. A. McLean, '06, Lenoir; Mr. J. C. Harper, '15, Lenoir; Mr. G. W. Hall, '05, Hickory; Rev. C. M. Richards, '02, Davidson; Mr. A. L. James, '06, Laurinburg; Rev. E. L. Siler, '87, Maxton; Mr. J. W. McLauchlin, '71, Raeford; Rev. W. A. Murray, '06, Shelby; Mr. S. A. Robinson, '07, Gastonia; Rev. A. A. McGeachy, '08, Charlotte; Mr. J. W. Pharr, '80, Charlotte; Mr. H. N. Pharr, '87, Charlotte; Rev. C. E. Hodgin, '04, Greensboro; Rev. D. I. Craig, '71, Reidsville; Mr. Don Scott, '07, Graham; Mr. T. D. Dupuy, '07, Greensboro; Rev. W. M. Baker, '00, Mt. Olive; Rev. J. O. Mann, '06, Wilmington; Mr. J. Edward Johnston, '14, Winston-Salem; Rev. J. H. Carter, '00, Elkin; Mr. T. A. Finley, '17, North Wilkesboro.

Synod of Georgia
Mr. George Scott Candler, '07, Decatur; Rev. A. Ray Howland, '15, Atlanta; Mr. H. I. Smith, '88, Dalton; Rev. Carl Barth, '08, Macon; Mr. W. A. Watt, '07, Thomasville; Rev. L. G. Henderson, '02, Albany; Rev. N. L. Anderson, '55, Savannah.

Synod of Florida
Rev. W. J. Garrison, '08, St. Petersburg.

1922—W. P. Noyes is in the interest of his firm, D. L. Flack and Son, coal exporters.

1906—Swain, George Fillmore, teaching.

1907—Wright, Henry Parks, young man and teaching.To give high school track athletes the benefit of additional experience, a large crowd of track enthusiasts gathered in Eeville, Wy. Mr. W. I. Bailey, ‘06, of Greenwood, was in attendance. 

02—C. L. Grey, president of the Grey Hosiery Mills in Hendersonville, N.C., stopped over on his return from the Men of the Church Conference in Greensboro.

00—W. H. Thompson, professor at Philadelphia Union Seminary, will take entire charge of the Young People’s Work in the Christian Observer.

10—E. A. Woods, Jr., is supply pastor at the First Church in Greensboro during Dr. Myers’ trip to Palestine.

16—N. P. Farrior has resigned his field in Mexico because the high altitude has greatly impaired his health.

21—R. C. Clontz, of Wilmington, visited the hill on his return from the Convention in Greensboro.

22—D. P. McGeachy sang with the Union Seminary quartet at Greensboro during the convention.

23—Lex W. Kluttz is the state director of the Near East Relief at Columbia, S.C.

Addresses Changed

We have received letters from the following Alumni the past week:

75—Rev. R. S. Burwell, Hopewell, N.C.
07—W. P. Anderson, Secretary Davidson College Alumni Association of New York; No. 1, Broadway, N.Y.
00—Rev. J. S. Cooper, Durham, N.C.
10—Emmett G. Routt, 162 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N.Y.
21—Attorney J. H. Sample, Asheville, N.C.
22—S. D. Story, Secretary and Treasurer, Asheboro, N.C.
23—L. W. Dick, Jr., Woodberry Forest School, Virginia.
23—R. F. Davidson, McCaulay School, Chattanooga, Tenn.
23—W. A. Gamble, Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.
24—H. G. Fenton, French Camp, Miss.
26—T. B. Fidler, Beresford, Fla.

ALUMNI TRUSTEES

The following is a list of names of alumni now members of the Board of Trustees of Davidson College which met recently:

JUNIORS’ INTEREST RISES

That "O Davidson" which we know so well made its first appearance at a band concert in Shearer Hall, May 4. It will be found one of the most charming and beautiful pictures ever witnessed on the campus. 

The program for Sunday will be a special “Y” service, to which all the visiting girls will be specially invited, and a service will be held in keeping with the occasion. 

Monday marks the close of Junior Speaking. There will be two dances this day in Charlotte, one in the afternoon and the second Monday night. With these will close the holidays and leave the students and their visitors with a pleasant and oft-recalled memory of the five days of Junior Speaking of 1923.

Two features of the holidays have been strongly emphasized by the Junior class. First, there will be a host of girls on the campus the like of which has never been seen. The fraternities will hold a reception for their visitors after the carnival Saturday night. The second feature will be a Junior Speaking Magazine gotten out by the Juniors, filled with the atmosphere of the days. Frederick Smith is to be editor of this publication, and he will have a competent board of assistants.

While these plans are yet to be placed in their final state, the above is a fair report of what the Easter holidays will hold for the boys and their friends. It might be well to urge the sending of invitations to the event now, because it is only a matter of weeks until April will be upon us. The Junior class is interested in the sharing of the occasion by every student and is making sure that it will be an event that all the college will enter into with pleasure.

PEABODY COLLEGE GUESTS

Three days, during which time numerous receptions of various kinds were held. The academic processions of the Peabody students and faculty were very beautiful and exceptionally well designed. A large part of the time was taken up in speeches made by some of the invited guests.

DAVIDSONIAN WILL BENEFIT

Wipe out the deficit which the publication incurred last year. A splendid cause and a splendid cure.

CALENDAR

Thursday—
Eumenean Society 6:45.
Philantropic Society 6:45.
Basketball, Wake Forest vs. D.C. (Charlotte), 8:00.

Friday—
Basketball, Guilford vs. D.C., 8:00.

Saturday—
Basketball, Wake Forest vs. D.C., 8:00.

Sunday—
C. E. Training Class, 4:00.
Ministerial Band, 2:00.
“Y” Service, 6:15.

Tuesday—
Metrophilian Society, 6:45.
Pandemic Society, 6:45.

Remember the time and place---
MONDAY, MARCH 9th
103 WEST

Showing a Complete Line of Woolens
Suits $35.00 Up. Top Coats $25.00 Up
Beautiful assortment Neckwear in popular colors

EAT AT
THE ASTOR LUNCH
THE BEST OF COOKING

McAlister Carson, Manager
Insurance Department
Independence Trust Company
Charlotte, N.C.