THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity Quality Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

Chew it after every meal
It stimulates appetite and aids digestion. It makes your food do you more good. Note how it relieves that stuffy
feeling after hearty eating. It sweetens breath and whitens teeth, in its Purity Package.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S & W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

It is reported around the campus that Buster Gray has decided to give up golf. Buster should remember that accidents
will happen.

Boggs—"Will you marry me?”
She—"No. But lend me your knife.”
Boggs—"What’s the idea?”
She—"I want to cut another notch in the swing.”

Car Owner—"What have you in the shape of auto tires?”
Salesman—"Funeral wreaths, life preservers, invalid cushions and doughnuts.”

Bright Young College Fresh—"I want a yard of pork.”
Butcher—"Boy, bring this guy three pig's feet.”

I—“Whatcha gonna do t'night?”
II—"Study.”
I—"I'm not doing anything, either. Let's go to a show.”

King—"What is the orchestra doing playing this time of night?”
Jester—"That, m’ Lord, is but the knights taking off their coats.”

The Davidson student handed his ticket to the bus driver. “Say,” the driver snarled, “this ticket is two days old.”
“I’ve been waiting patiently,” said the student wearily.

“I can’t see my hand before my face.”
“Great Scott! What's the matter?”
“It isn’t there, idiot.”

“Yes, indeed,” said the sweet young thing, “my great-great-great-grandmother was so nice she swam home from a party on the
Mayflower.”

McAllister wins the collapsible soda straw—he sent his girl a picture of himself and insured it for five dollars.

Fresh Joe Willard is minus three teeth. Someone shoved the table at dinner the other day and he stopped the
edge with his mouth.

A Freshman handed in the following essay in English class last week:

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.

Phonograph Records 50c each
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers in Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

BULL
Bull is what the Spanish toreadors kill and Americans sling. It is the husband of the cow. It is the
first name of 100 smokes for 15 cents. It is a four-legged wild domestic animal that is hard to keep
on the other side of the fence. It is what made Samuel Johnston famous. It is what all Davidson students
do. It was Patrick Henry who said, “The Bull is mightier than the Bullet.” It was a young lady who
said, “How did you lose your tooth?” “Shifting gears on a prune.”

Where there’s a will there’s a way. The man got up on the scales to weigh and found he had
fallen off. He got up again.

English Prof—"What are pauses?”
Fresh—"They grow on cats.”

“Have you had calculus?”
“No, I was vaccinated.”

“Jim burned a hole in his pants.”
“Did he have insurance?”
“No, his coat covered the loss.”

There are always two ways of looking at a thing, provided you are cross-eyed.

Lady (at baseball game)—"Isn't our pitcher just fine. He hits the bat every time.”

FIELD DAY IS POSTPONED
(Continued from page 1)
chance to look over promising material among the Freshman entries as well as among the entries from the three upper
classes. The event is a free-for-all field day, no restrictions being made except in case of letter men, who will
not be permitted to participate. Only individual scores will be compiled. First, second, and third places will count in the
scoring as follows: Five, three, and one points, for first, second, and third places, respectively.

INFIRMARY NEWS
Flu and pneumonia are valiantly vying for supremacy in Mrs. Robson’s domain. During the month of February, seventy-seven sufferers submissively
surrendered themselves to the solicitude and concern of the college home for the infirm. Many of those undergoing the pangs
of flu were chemically cured by Dr. MacConnell, through his administration and their inhalation of chlorine gas. President Coolidge was
recently thus benefited. The student body regrets to hear of the critical condition of Charles Anderson.Who is ill with lobar
pneumonia. They will be glad, however, to learn that Dr. MacConnell reports that “the outlook is favorable.”

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

Reds and Blacks End Game in Tie

The second football game of the spring series, played last Saturday between the “Reds” and the “Blacks,” ended in a
tie, 0 to 0, and only twice was either goal in danger. In the third quarter, when the Blacks forced
the Reds back to their own six-yard line, they threatened to score but failed to carry the ball across for
a score. Again, in the last two minutes of play, when Grey, for the Reds, missed an attempt for goal
by a few feet with a placement kick from the 20-yard line, the Blacks lost their opportunity to win.

Throughout the game, the crowd was impressed by the excellent punting, which was resorted to by both sides. In the
first half, the Reds had a slight advantage over the Blacks, and it was during this period that they made
three of their four first downs while the Blacks made only one first down. During the second half, the Blacks
appeared to have the advantage and during this time they made five first downs to one for the Reds, which
made a total of 6 to 4 for the game.

There were no individual stars during the game, but a few players need commendation for their excellent playing. In the
backfield, “Red” McCombs and Claude Allen were especially noticed for their excellent work in carrying the ball, while “Mutt” Nesbit
and “Count” Leggette did some very fine punting. John Melton and Bob McMillan both showed up well in their end
runs and line plunges. “Red” Anderson and Long did some fine tackling, and Baker, Arrowood, and Pinkney showed up well
at the end positions. Wilson and Wells displayed their usual good judgment in running a team at quarterback, and Sims
and Joe McConnell filled the positions with great ability.

The line-up for last Saturday’s game follows:

“Reds” - Position - “Blacks”
Baker - Center - Arrowood
Anderson - Left tackle - Green
Sims - Left guard - Christian
McConnell - Center - Lincoln
Pinkney - Right end - Wilson
MacMillan - Left halfback - Nesbit
Melton - Fullback - Black

Substitutions:
Reds: Harmon, Thompson, McEachern, Allen, McColgin, Trabue, Wearn, Peterson, Stowe, Laws.
Blacks: D. Grey, J. Grey, McGeachy, Farrell, O'Neil, Crinkley, Moore, Taylor, Crawford, R. McConnell, Spainhour, King.

Quite a large number of the town people have been ill during the past week: Dr. T. W. Lingle, Mrs.
C. M. Richards, Miss Letitia Currie, Miss Katherine Porter, Misses Sarah and Julia Thompson, Mr. Thomas Hamilton, Mr. Sam Black,
the Daugherity children, and the Shewmake children.

EMPLOYMENT FOR STUDENTS
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY

If you intend to work during the summer months, it will pay you to investigate our proposition AT ONCE. This
work is of a religious and educational nature for which you are specially fitted. Students employed by us need have
no further worries concerning finances for the next college year. Our guarantee assures you of a minimum of $300.00 with
the opportunity of earning several times this amount. Many of our student representatives earned from $500.00 to $1,000.00 last summer.
No capital or experience necessary. Write today for full particulars and organization plan.

Universal Book and Bible House
College Department
1010 Arch Street
Philadelphia, Pa.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

CHAS. A. PEELER, Mgr.
VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.

EVERYTHING NEW AND UP-TO-DATE
Theatre perfectly ventilated, scientifically heated
Comfortable seats
Good music and only high-class pictures shown here
Showing daily from 1 to 11 P. M.
No intermission
We appreciate your patronage

VICTORY THEATRE

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
