’ THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

THE FLAT-IRON

YOU'LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE MOORESVILLE N.C.

Weekly Programme

Wed., Dec. 2--Ralph Cooke and his music (8 piece orchestra) direct from New York; music, singing and dancing. Picture “Fighting
Heart.” Vaudeville act 3:30, 5:30, 7-9 p.m.

Dec. 3-4, Thurs. and Fri.-- “Greed,” a Metro-Goldwyn Super Special that every man and woman in America should see.

Dec. 5, Sat.-- “The Spied Spook.”

Dec. 7-8, Mon. and Tues.-- “Men and Women.”

Dec. 9-- “Lost a Wife.”

Comedy and News Reels run with every picture.

“Romola” coming next week.

M. B. MAYHEWS College Reps. Chas. Bragaw, 15 N. B. I. Frontis, 18 Ga.

MAYHEWS CLEANERS AND DYERS

A Tale of Romance and Intrigue Beneath Tropical Skies BY KABLE

Dan Druff is aboard the yacht Flat Iron seeking to get hold of secret plans held by Gabriel Snubbers. The
hero Dan falls in love with Weona and the boat wrecks. The three of them finally gain the shore of
a small island where they are captured by a band of savages and shut up in a tower because the
two men would not agree to the marriage of Weona and the king.

There was little sleep in the tower that night. The last occupant had left a pair of little numbered cubes
in one of the bunks, so Dan and Gabriel started shooting craps. Dan had taken a course as graduate work
so he knew his cubes. He soon had all of Gabriel’s diamond set tooth-pick. Now he had him where he
wanted him.

“I’ll shoot the works for that pretty blue paper in your pocket,” Dan said.

Gabriel tossed it on the floor. “Shoot,” he said shortly. “But don’t let Weona see us; she doesn’t approve of
my playing this game.”

Dan’s eyes took on a fierce gleam as he clasped the little ivory cubes in his fist. He rattled them
in his left hand and talked with them meanwhile. “Spell out a full week for papa, and win the pretty
papers—stick close together and do your duty—don’t get excited now—count your numbers right—steady now.”

The little dice rolled. Dan threw a six, a nine, and an eight. He made another little personal talk with
the square marbles, and then rolled them gently on the linoleum—they turned up a six and a four. Dan triumphantly
pocketed the pot. He had achieved his aim; he had hit a bullseye.

The building began to sway back and forth like marsh grass in a breeze. They looked out of the window
and saw—a cyclone coming! They called Weona and all three huddled together in one corner. The building groaned as if
it would fall at any moment. After about six hours of this, all seemed to be quiet, so they risked
a look out of the window. Destruction stared them in the face; buildings were torn to splinters, paving blocks scattered
everywhere, mail boxes were ripped open, but all the people had evidently fled.

“I smell smoke,” said Weona. Strangely enough, neither Dan nor Gabriel were smoking. They looked out of the window and
discovered that the base of the tower was on fire! There they were five hundred and fifty feet above the
ground, and the building burning from the ground up. They ran to the window on the opposite side and ventured
a look. They saw way below them the ocean, a thousand feet down there. The building was constructed on a
cliff! They felt a slight lean oceanward and all clung to the opposite wall. Trapped like a cage of drowning
rats. Dan’s steady mind sought vainly for means of escape. Finally, he took his opera glasses from his briefcase and
looked to the bottom of the cliff. There plainly in the sunlight the little Flat Iron was riding the waves.
In some mysterious way, the little boat had righted itself and floated up in this little cove. With a shout,
he turned to his companions; then he pulled a rope ladder from his ever-handy briefcase and tied one end to
the radiator. Then began the perilous climb downward to the boat. Dan went first and in three hours all were
safely aboard the little boat again. It seemed little harmed by its sinking, so Dan took charge and put Gabriel
to firing up the boiler, let Weona blow the whistle, and he steered the ship homeward, with one arm around
Weona.

You all read the story of the triumphal arrival of the Flat Iron in New York harbor, and how the
Leviathan went out to meet it loaded with newspaper reporters; and how for his brave actions, and marvelous headwork Dan
was presented with one of New York's leading weekly newspapers; how he married the girl he was engaged to when
he left on his eventful trip.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO. Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream SELBY ICE CREAM CO. STATESVILLE, N. C.

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to dothe rest The
Sanitary Cafe Mooresville, N. C. Next door to Artcraft Theatre trip. THE END (Thank goodness!)

The author wishes to acknowledge the destructive criticism of his friend and roommate in the writing of the above novelette.
Also, he wishes to thank those readers who have sent letters of encouragement and suggestion to him from time to
time. He regrets that he does not have time to answer these letters personally as he is considering a contract
for putting “The Flat Iron” on the screen so that it may be released in the early spring.

HANGCHOW FUND
(Continued from Page 1)

by the District of Columbia under a board of trustees representing equally the Foreign Mission Boards of the two great
Presbyterian Churches in the United States. It furnishes a regular arts course, majoring in education. About 200 men have come
from this institution as full college graduates, of whom about 60 have gone into the ministry, about 75 into business,
about 35 into the Y. M. C. A. and other religious organizations as secretaries, and the remainder have become engineers,
physicians, literary workers, etc. At present, there is a student body of 256 young men, a foreign staff of 16,
and a Chinese staff of about 20 men. It is the intention of Hangchow College to limit the number of
the student body to 500 and to increase the quality of work done rather than to educate as many as
it can. It is said that it is a sort of Davidson in China. The Northern Presbyterian Church has Northwestern
as its center of education, while Davidson is the same to the Southern Church. It is the ideal of those
who are connected with the Chinese institution to make it a sort of combination of the two and have a
college over there which has the good qualities of both of these schools. From the number of graduates who have
entered the ministry and other forms of religious education, it is thought that it can be made such without much
effort. Davidson College has a man on the faculty, and they have helped to support him in the past. Warren
has been written some time ago, but the mail may have gotten misplaced on account of the upheavals in China,
or something has happened to keep him from writing to the Davidson fellows as he usually does. They may hear
from him any time, however. When the letter does come, it will be published in The Davidsonian.

GLEE CLUB RENDERS
(Continued from page 1)

very well received at Mooresville, and rightly so. They played well. J. H. Caligan, singing the only solo of the
evening, rendered the “Gypsy Love Song” in great style. He was encored and returned to give the “Dream.” The chorus,
generally speaking, did some excellent work, giving splendidly “The Song of Creation,” “John Peel,” and of course, “O, Davidson,” besides
several other selections. The excellent training and hard work which Mrs. Baker has expended in making the club certainly revealed
itself in the chorus’ numbers. By the time of the Southern trip, which comes in February, when Mrs. Baker has
ended her training, the club should be unbeatable in the South. The tone of the club is excellent, the volume
good. It showed up very well Friday night. The quartet, composed of Calhoun, Foster, Wilson, and Lockhart, gave several selections,
and although they were not new, they seemed to be thoroughly enjoyed. Among the best of the numbers were: “Dear
One, the World Is Waiting For the Sunrise,” “Collegiate,” and “Knee Deep in Daisies.” The club will journey over to
Charlotte, where they will perform for the Queens of Queens College, on Saturday night, December 5. With the experience afforded
to the new men by the performance at Mooresville and the benefit of another week’s practice, the club should be
in much better shape for the performance at Queens and should make a name for themselves.

PIEDMONT Pressing Club No. 27 S. Tryon St.

Many a person will swallow the minimum of flattery and choke at the minimum of truth. Many a checkered career
ends in a striped suit—Arkansas Gazette.

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE N. C.

John Ward Men’s Shoes INCORPORATED REG. U.S. PAT. OFF. On Display By Mr. C. C. Lake Saturday and Monday Dec.
5 and 7 at Students’ Store

Have your old hats cleaned and reblocked $.50. SAVE MONEY Shoe Shine Parlor Phone 3818

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it. Insurance Department. INSURANCE McA. CARSON,
Mgr. Independence Trust Co. Charlotte, N. C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL” PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS VICTROLAS RECORDS AND ROLLS Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments SHEET MUSIC OLDEST IN THE
STATE ANDREW MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St.
