A FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON
Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 23, 1925 No. 26

WILDCATS DEFEAT THE GAMECOCKS IN THRILLING GAME

Vesper Audience Hears Seminary Head Discuss Student Life Problems.

Dr. R. T. Gillespie Spoke to Numerous Campus Organizations

IS DAVIDSON GRADUATE

Many Students Enjoy Private Interviews During Three-Day Visit of Speaker

Dr. R. T. Gillespie, president of Columbia Theological Seminary, addressed the students at the Y. M. C. A. Vespers on
the subject, “Investment in Life,” taking as his text, “For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever
shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel’s, the same shall find it.” In developing his text Dr.
Gillespie stressed the point that a man must not simply lose his life, but he must do so for the
sake of Christ and the gospel. Then shall he find it again, and in abundance.

As an illustration of a man who gave all he had to Christ, the life of David Livingstone was used.
He decided to go into Africa and tell the negro about the Saviour, who had died that they might live
in heaven. His family opposed his purpose. His friends advised him not to go, saying that it would only result
in an early death, and no good would be accomplished in the end. But Livingstone was willing to lose his
life, and he clung to his purpose. He went into the heart of Africa, where he was lost. All of
the world knew that he was lost, and they watched with anxiety for some news of his return. When a
party of men finally found him, he was dead. His corpse was the reward of their search. His heart remains
in the land of those to whom he gave his life and whom he served. He was willing to give
his life for the sake of Christ.

Another illustration was that of a woman (Continued on page 5)

Reporters’ Club Selects Thirteen New Members

G. M. Eddington is Chosen to Lead Organization During Next Year

At a special meeting, held on Friday night, April 17th, the Reporters’ Club elected officers for the coming year; and
elected 13 new men to membership. The meeting was held in the parlor of West Dormitory. The meeting was called
to order by L. B. Gibbs, retiring president, promptly at 10 o'clock. After the regular business was disposed of, nominations
were made for new officers. For president, G. M. Eddington and E. K. Regen were nominated. Eddington was elected. For
vice-president V. S. Broyles, W. T. Covington and W. S. Woods were nominated. Broyles was elected on the second ballot,
the final choice being between Covington and Broyles. C. C. Murchison and W. T. Covington were nominated for Secretary-treasurer, Murchison
being elected. There will be no formal installation of officers, the new men taking charge at once. The retiring officers
are: L. B. Gibbs, president; D. G. Wilson, vice-president, and A. Y. Bowie, secretary-treasurer. The retiring officers each made speeches
of welcome and encouragement to the new officers.

Thirteen new men were elected to membership in the Club for the coming year. The elections of these men were
made upon the recommendation of the retiring Davidsonian staff. The following men were made members at the meeting: Kenneth Bell,
Wade Allison, W. S. Gordon, J. B. Webb, H. L. Shelby, Boyce Martin, Caldwell Withers, (Continued on page 3)

Collegiate Press Convention Will Meet Next Week

The North Carolina Collegiate Press Association will meet at Davidson, April 30, through May 2, in its semi-annual convention. Approximately
40 students are expected to attend from the various institutions in the state. These students will represent 20 publications and
15 institutions. An informal reception for the visiting delegates is planned for the evening of April 30. Friday morning's session
will be featured by an address by Dr. Frazer Hood, who will speak on the subject, “The Psychology of the
News Item.” An address by Marion Saunders, of the University of North Carolina, president of the association, together with a
business session, including the appointment of committees, reports of publications, and other business will occupy the morning session of the
convention. A baseball game is being planned for Friday afternoon, and tentative plans include a reception in fraternity halls. A
banquet for the delegates has been planned for Friday night, the banquet probably to be held in Charlotte. Mr. J.
A. Parham, managing editor of the Charlotte Observer, will address the convention Saturday morning, using for his theme “College Students
and the Newspaper.” The (Continued on page 3)

Two Big Contests Interest Debaters

Those in the student body and elsewhere who are interested in the forensic art are looking forward with a great
deal of interest to the coming debates with Wake Forest and with Presbyterian College of South Carolina. On Friday, April
24, at 8:15 o'clock, in Shearer Hall, a team representing Davidson will debate a team from Presbyterian College on the
subject of “Resolved, That Congress should be empowered to override by two-thirds vote the decisions of the Supreme Court declaring
acts of Congress unconstitutional.” Davidson will be represented by Martin, Ben Ratchford and Buck Shaw. The above men speaking in
the given order will uphold the affirmative of the question. E. T. Wilson, D. D. Edmunds and J. D. McInnis
will defend the negative for P. C. All six debaters are men of tried mettle and an interesting evening is
in store for those who are interested.

On May 1, in Charlotte, at Queens College, Davidson will again seek to uphold her forensic reputation when Wake Forest
is encountered. In this debate R. B. Parker, A. Y. Bowie and L. D. Wharton will defend the negative of
the above stated question. Opposing them for Wake Forest will be O. L. Norment, C. R. Holmes, and J. J.
Tarleton. The question under discussion is one which is engaging the attention of the men who think throughout the country,
and the debates will be worth while from a standpoint of information as well as a study of the art
itself.

During the past years Davidson has encountered Wake Forest on six different occasions, winning four of them and losing two.
The first debate with this school was in 1910. The debate with P. C. is the first that we have
had with them and it is with a great deal of interest that the outcome of this initial encounter is
awaited. The Wildcats have high hopes of winning this debate since Martin, Ratchford and Shaw are among the most skillful
debaters on the campus. Piggy Martin, of the Senior class, is prominent in all phases of student activity, being a
(Continued on page 3)

Commencement Program Includes Many Unusual Features and Speakers

Rev. J. G. McAllister Will Deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon

INVITATIONS ARE BEING PRINTED

Class Exercises and Lowering of Class Flag Will Conclude the Celebration

The plans for the 89th Commencement of Davidson College have finally been completed, and the program cards are now being
printed. The faculty and Senior class have succeeded in securing the best speakers available, and are arranging for interesting and
impressive exercises. The college orchestra has been engaged for the entire four days and will add much to the enjoyment
of the season.

The program will begin Sunday morning, May 31, and run through Wednesday, June 3. On Sunday morning at 11 o'clock
Rev. J. G. McAllister, D.D., will preach the baccalaureate sermon. Doctor McAllister is now the professor of Bible and Theology
at the Louisville Theological Seminary. He is a graduate of Hampton-Sidney College and the Union Theological Seminary and since his
graduation has been back to both institutions, to the former as president and to the latter as a professor. In
“Who's Who" he is classified as a well-known theologian, educator and conference lecturer.

At 8:00 p.m. Rev. Neal Anderson, of Sa-Savannah, Ga. will deliver the annual sermon before the Y. M. C. A.
The Senior class exercises at 5:30 p.m., the Dramatic Club performance at 8:00, and the general fraternity reception at 10,
are the only events to take place on Monday. The Senior class will present their gift to the college during
their exercises. The Board of Trustees meets at 9:30 Tuesday morning. Dr. J. R. McCain, president of Agnes Scott College,
will deliver the annual literary address at 12:15. Doctor McCain is a graduate of Erskine College and has received post-graduate
degrees from Mercer University, the University of Chicago, and Columbia University. He is the founder of the Darlington School, at
Rome, Ga. He has been associated with Agnes Scott College since 1915 in the capacity of registrar, professor of Economics,
vice-president, and president.

The alumni luncheon given at the expense of the college at 1:30 will be the outstanding feature for the alumni.
Provisions for rooms and board will be made for any alumni who will write Mr. F. L. Jackson. Class reunions
of '24, '20, '15, and so on for five-year periods will be held this commencement. A reception by the faculty
at 5:00 p.m., exercises of the literary societies at 8:00, and the Senior class festival at 10 complete the exercises
for Tuesday. The Senior class feature is to be a surprise for the onlookers as the nature will be kept
secret until it is presented. A. M. Martin is head of the (Continued on page 5)

NEW I. R. C. MEMBERS

The International Relations Club has recently elected the following students to membership: E. K. Regen, W. A. Christian, T. G.
McCutchen, W. C. Ogden, E. E. Lingle, W. B. Rice, L. H. Leathers, J. B. Webb, E. F. Bohannon.

Commencement Program

Alabama Senator Will Lecture to Students Monday

Senator J. Thomas Heflin, of Alabama, will speak in Shearer Hall, Monday, April 27, at 7:30 p.m. The subject of
his lecture will be “The Story of the South.” Davidson students and townspeople have a rare opportunity of hearing one
of America’s greatest orators. Senator Heflin went to Congress in 1904, and resigned in 1920 to fill out the unexpired
term of the Hon. John H. Bankhead in the Senate. Senator Heflin is an orator of very great ability and
his oratory is typical of the best traditions of the South. As a storyteller, his impressive personality holds his listeners
spellbound. The descriptions of the cotton fields all abloom in the Southland are said to be literary masterpieces, and none
should miss hearing them. Senator Heflin will be remembered also as the author of the resolution in Congress making the
second Sunday in May Mother's Day. This alone should make him popular with the students, besides his art of telling
and applying an anecdote. He is equally good whether humorous or serious. A small admission fee of 25 cents will
be charged for the lecture. No Davidson student can afford to miss the opportunity of hearing this noted orator on
a great subject that interests everyone.

Funds for Queens

A combined drive for funds in behalf of Queens College and Hangehow College, Hangehow, China, held the interest of Davidson
students during the past few days. The Davidson drive for six thousand dollars for Queens College, led by Jim Milhous
and his corps of organized workers, was conducted in conjunction with the drive for funds to support Warren Cox, Davidson's
own representative on the Hangehow College faculty; and Davidson students responded unselfishly to both causes. The Hangehow Drive was to
have been run separately from that of Queens College, but a close consideration by leaders in both campaigns led to
the combination. Room-to-room canvasses by the various workers, after a big get-together meeting in Shearer Hall on Wednesday morning, were
highly successful. Students were urged to subscribe to both campaigns, and their subscriptions were taken for the two causes by
the same set of canvassers.

The Queens College workers were guests at a banquet at the New Charlotte Hotel on last Friday evening, and at
that time the various officers of the Davidson committee were elected. At that time Davidson was represented by over 20
members of the student body at a banquet given at the New Charlotte Hotel for the purpose of putting on
the Queens College drive at Davidson. Mr. Lockhart, director of the drive, in stating the cause of the meeting, stated
that the men present would act as a committee in putting over the drive. The principal speaker of the occasion
was Dr. Frazer, president of Queens. Dr. Frazer stated that his purpose in life was to see Queens established as
an A-grade institution and one which is recognized by other colleges and universities—even as Davidson. Until this is done, he
declared, he would not be ready to die, but if this was realized his one ambition would be fulfilled. Dr.
McGeachy, one of the directors of Queens, added some statements to Dr. Frazer’s remarks pointing out the relation that Davidson
bears to Queens and the feeling of co- (Continued on page 5)

Davidson Trackmen Win From South Carolina in Last Event of Contest

South Carolina Leading by Six Points Until Closing Minutes

GOODYKOONTZ IS STAR

McConnell’s Sensational Performance in Mile-Run Brings Spectators to Their Feet

Davidson defeated the University of South Carolina Saturday in their dual track meet held at Columbia by the narrow margin
of two points. The score was 57-55. The meet was nip and tuck all the way through. Davidson got off
to a good start, but the Gamecocks soon tied the score up. Then the fun started; first one was ahead,
then the other. At the last event, which was the javelin throw, the South Carolinians were ahead six points, but
by McCombs taking first place and Gracey second, the Wildcats nosed out ahead. The mile run was the sensation of
the meet. McConnell (Davidson) and Flannahan (Carolina) tied for first place. This is very unusual due to the length of
the run. Rowe, of Carolina, made one of the strongest finishes on the two-mile ever seen. On the last lap
Williford (Davidson) was leading him about 30 yards when he started his spurt and won by about a 15-yard margin.
Sook took the track in this meet and came back with the first place in the shot put to his
credit. Three of the Davidson team made their letters in this meet: Brand, McMillan, and Calhoun. Sores made his first
appearance on the track in this meet. Gaston was the outstanding star for the Gamecocks, while Goodykoontz and McConnell showed
up well for Davidson. Gaston took three first places and McConnell took one and tied one. The day was ideal
track weather, being (Continued on page 6)

Freight Rate Reduction is Plea of Ex-Governor

Ex-Governor Morrison Delivers Scholarly Address Before Students of Economics

Calling on the sons of North Carolina to challenge the problem of high freight rates within the state as a
test of their patriotism, ex-Governor Cameron Morrison presented his plea for port-terminals, in a forceful discussion delivered before a representative
group of students and townspeople, Monday morning at Davidson. Prof. A. Currie, of the Economics department, invited ex-Governor Morrison to
speak before the class in Economics at the 11:40 period. The class met in Shearer Hall, where other classes and
friends were invited to hear the ex-governor speak on the question of port terminals.

Ex-Governor Morrison opened his discussion by saying that cheap and serviceable transportation was necessary to the prosperity of any people.
He emphasized the fact that the people of North Carolina should look upon the problem of high freight rates as
a State question, and act as a unit in solving the difficulty. “North Carolina cannot be independent as long as
the freight question is based on the complete monopoly of the railroads,” said Governor Morrison. He pointed out the cause
of high rates in North Carolina, by saying that freight rates are made on the basis of “basing points” that
are located in Virginia, so far as this state is concerned. North Carolina rates are made (Continued on page 5)
