THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 15, 1925

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

+

HUNGRY??
Home Cooked. Those tasty eats and delicious Punch for feeds and parties
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie’s) TEA ROOM

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

Blue Suits
This Fall it will be Blue. We have some wonderful blues in new weaves---wide wales, diamond patterns, plain and fancy
Basket weaves, and diagonals. They are in a rich dark blue shade, exquisitely tailored, perfect in their style and shaping.
Both single and double-breasted. Early as it is for a fall style to show activity, we are selling many of
them every day.
$35, $40, $50
Tate-Brown Co.

Wildcat Net Team Made Up of Tournament Stars
Crosland, Carr, McCutcheon and Alexander to Compose Tennis Team

During the past two or three weeks 29 men have been trying out for the tennis team, and for the
fall term the following four men will compose a tentative team: Lake McCutcheon, captain; Dick Carr, Bob Crosland, and W.
A. Alexander. Of the 20 odd men who tried out for the team nine made an especially good showing, these
men were Don Stewart, Dick Carr, Lake McCutcheon, Bill Covington, Malcolm Lockhart, W. A. Christian, Bob Crosland, and H. M.
Martin. Wood Brown was forced to forfeit his match on account of sore feet. The feature match of the tournament
was the match between Lockhart and Alexander. This was very close and the outcome was for a long time in
doubt. Alexander won out, 7-5, 4-6, 13-11. A certain number of men who made a good showing in this tournament
will run off a “round robin” tournament next spring, before the regular team for the spring schedule will be selected.
Those who now compose the team are at best a tentative team and several other good men who proved their
worth in the last tournament will be given another chance. The varsity team last year consisted of five men, four
of whom were lost through graduation; they were Harry Price, Mac Bell, Jimmy Trotter, and Tom Staley. Lake McCutcheon, the
captain for this year, was the fifth man on the team. Prospects seem to be as good, if not better,
than they were this time last year, and from present indications Davidson should take off additional honors in State tennis
circles.

HOW THEY PLAY
Again Caldwell, with his three touchdowns, leads in the scoring for the state grid stars, but Saturday's games caused considerable
change in the line-up. Karleskint, Wake Forest ace, jumped up near the lead with three touchdowns. Sparrow, of Carolina, is
tied with him, contributing a couple of field goals with his touchdown.

Touchdowns. Field Gls. Try for P’nt. T’tl.
Caldwell, Duke 3
W. Shuford, State
Karleskint, W. F.
Sparrow, N. C.
McComb, Davidson
Hennette, State
Riley, W. F.
Overton, Day.
Underwood, N. C.
James, W. F.
Shuford, Carolina
Leggette, Dav.
Harrison, Dav.
Arrowood, Day.
Rackley, W. F.
Ober, W. F.
Laird, Davidson
James, W. F.
Ellerbe, W. F.

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

Three football games this week! And all of them rare and rich. Rich in what is left to your opinion.
First comes the All-Americans vs. All-Internationals, this battle of wits to occur on Thursday afternoon within the precincts of Richardson
Field—at least somewhere on the field. Second, the Wildkittens tackle their first college freshman team, when P. C. yearlings clash
with the Davidson new men on Richardson Field, Friday afternoon at 3:00 o'clock. And while color is expected to be
displayed in these two games, the most colorful will be the third, Presbyterian College vs. Davidson College—the varsities, at Rock
Hill, S. C., Saturday. Speaking of color makes us think that the student at Davidson Saturday will get to see
that game in color, for red, green, yellow, white and other kinds of colors will be used on the blackboard
in the gym, upon which the students may be able to follow the Wildcats up and down the field. The
only difference is that you don’t see the men trotting back and forth. We hope that the trotting will be
mainly forth, Not merely trotting forth upon the field, but on down, down and still farther down, until so many
downs will have been made that D. C. will have won a game. But you know how stubborn these Presbyterians
are. They grudgingly give each inch, and doggedly fight each moment. If you don't believe it, look at this:

1919—P. C., 0; Davidson, 0.
1920—P. C., 7; Davidson, 0.
1921—P. C., 0; Davidson, 7.
1922—P. C., 8; Davidson, 7.
1923—P. C., 0; Davidson, 3.
1924—P. C., 3; Davidson, 15.

Which do you want? A special to Carolina that stops at Mooresville, Barbers Junction, Mocksville, Winston-Salem; Greensboro, Burlington and Chapel
Hill? Or one that leaves Davidson and stops at Winston-Salem, Greensboro and Chapel Hill? Well, it alldepends upon the number
of men that make the trip. While football is uppermost in every Davidson student’s mind just now, remember that other
athletic progress is being made. These classes are getting in trim for their cage clashes. The wrestling men are getting
down to work early this year, and are expecting to give the Plebes of Annapolis a “run for their money.”
The tennis team for fall engagements has been chosen and consists of McCutchen, the only letter man of last year,
with W. A. Alexander, Crosland, and Carr as partners. The long, lean, and lanky distance runners, as well as the
stockily built lengthy sprinters, are meandering back and forth each day between Davidson and somewhere, strengthening their muscles and getting
in shape. Golf aspirants and the billy goat are occupying the course every day, new devotees of this sport progressing
or retrogressing as the case may be. And soon we'll mention campus football, after real football has passed. A number
of men and Kimbrough are warming up with the horsehide, too.

BEAVER CLUB NAME OF SOPH’S SOCIETY

During the past week, ten members of the Sophomore class founded a new honor society. The object of this society
is to promote friendliness towards all organizations that visit the campus. This applies not only to athletic teams but also
to debaters, speakers, and so forth. It is of paramount importance that all strangers or visitors receive a warm Davidson
reception and visible signs of hospitality upon entering our campus. It is in this line that the new organization aims
to function. The ten men who thus bound themselves together were: Lynn McClain, Robert Miller, Howard Arbuckle, Carter Rowe, Mack
Lockhart, John Foster, Dick Carr, Bud Guthery, Chalmers Davidson, and Walter Lingle. “The Beaver Club” has been selected as a
name for the organization as being in line with the work which it intends to do. During the latter part
of the past week, each member was required to wear the Davidson colors and the Beaver symbol, as a form
of public initiation. At the end of each year, ten promising members of the rising Sophomore class will be taken
into the club to carry on its work. In this way, it will become a permanent honor society for Sophomores.

Coach Mattox’ Squad is Ready for P.C. Freshmen

First Game With Bluestockings Fresh to be Played at Davidson — Hard Drill This Week

The Davidson Wildkittens and the little Blue Stockings of the P. C. Freshmen will clash on Richardson Field tomorrow. As
the game comes just a day before the contest between the older brothers of the two schools, it is assured
that it will be highly interesting. Little is known of the strength of the South Carolinians, but reports have reached
the campus that they have a team equally as strong as they had last year when Stamps, Dugan, and the
other horsemen threw such a scare into the camp of the Davidson freshmen. Wilson, the Presbyterian quarter, is said to
be equally as good as his famous brother “Shorty.” Kirvin, a stocky lineman from Sumter, is to be feared if
the reports coming from Clinton are true. He is a brother of “Bull” Kirvin, who was a terror to P.
C.’s opponents several years ago. Coach Mattox has been drilling his men hard this past week in view of the
game. The fresh were defeated in their first game of the season last Friday by High Point College, 14-0. Davidson
will in all probability present the same line-up that was used against the Collegians with the exception of Leftridge and
McClure, who are slated to take the places held by Vance and Monk at tackle and end respectively.

GRID STANDINGS

W. L. T. Pct.
Davidson ______ 3 0 1 1.000
Wake Forest __ 2 0 1 1.000
N.C. State ____ 1 1 0 .667
Carolina ______ 2 1 0 .667
Lenoir ________ 1 2 0 .333
Elon __________ 1 2 0 .333
Guilford ______ 0 3 0 .000

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Columbia Theological Seminary 1828-1925

Columbia Theological Seminary is an approved Seminary for ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is the official Seminary for
the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, and Mississippi. The Faculty is composed of men who are chosen for pre-eminence:
1. In Christian Character
2. In Scholarship
3. In Approved Ability
4. As Moulders of Thought
5. As Leaders of Men

The student body is composed of picked men from the choicest Christian homes of the South. Their motives, ability, and
character have been approved by their home church, Presbytery, and college. These young men come to the Seminary to receive
special training for leadership in the most important sphere of human experience. Columbia Seminary offers to its students thorough training,
sympathetic fellowship, helpful cooperation, practical experience, and a true conception of the meaning of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

WE SELL
18 East Trade St.
Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

FELLOWS!
We spare no pains in our efforts to serve the best. We take pleasure in soliciting banquets and those “college
feeds.” See our managers for information and prices.
The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel
MANAGERS F. R. HUDSON
