FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., APRIL 2, 1925 No. 24

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA INITIATES FRIDAY

Virginia Gobblers Outpoint Wildcats 80-46 in Initial Meet at Blackstone

Davidson Trackmen Take Same Number of First Places as Techmen

GOODYKOONTZ LEADS

Wins First Place in 220 and 440 Dashes and Second in Hundred — McConnell Goes Well

With weather better suited for football than a track meet and with a regular blizzard during the afternoon, the Davidson
Track Team lost to the Gobblers last Saturday by the score 80 to 46. Due to the severe weather conditions
of both cold and high wind, the entire meet was slowed up. The running events were affected to such an
extent that the time was not up to the standard; the pole vault was also considerably less than it should
be. Goodykoontz, of Davidson, was high point man of the meet with two first places and one second. His time
of 22.8 for the 220 was just one-fifth slower than the college record.

Davidson captured six first places in the meet: the 120 hurdles, high jump, 220 dash, 440, 880, and the javelin
throw. Tech, on the other hand, took eight firsts with the 100-yard dash, discus, shot put, two-mile, mile, 220 hurdles,
broad jump, and pole vault. Second places were a big factor in the high score of the Gobblers with 11
against Davidson’s two. Coach Tex Tilson and Manager Patton with 13 members of the squad made the trip.

(Continued on page 8)

Smith Selects the Davidsonian Staff

C.F. Smith, recently elected editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian, makes formal announcement of the staff for the coming year, work will
begin with the next issue of Davidsonian. He has selected W. H. Branch as managing editor for the coming year.
During the past year Branch has been an associate editor on the present staff, and previous to the time he
was elected to act in that capacity he was a member of the Reporters’ Club. He has been doing considerable
writing for The Davidsonian the past year, and before he came to college was connected with publications in high school.
He has been helping on the makeup of the paper each Monday night.

As assistant managing editors he has chosen L. D. Wharton and P. F. Jones. Wharton this past year has been
Athletic Editor of this publication, and has had entire charge of the athletic end of the paper. His column of
“Sport Flashes” has attracted attention. In addition to this, he has been one of the writers for The Davidson Press
Bureau, and has written thousands of words with that agency. He was also connected with the athletic department of Quips
and Cranks this year. He was a member of the Reporters’ Club before being chosen as a member of the
past year’s staff.

For the past two years, B. F. Jones has been working with the assignment department.

(Continued on page 8)

Oak Ridge Cadets Snatcher Varsity With Fast Play to Win Both Games of Series

The Wildcat nine started off the baseball season here Friday and Saturday by losing a two-game series with Oak Ridge
Institute. The score of the first game was 8-7 and the second 12-7. Davidson usually begins the season with a
two-game series with Oak Ridge, but the honors are usually about even, this being the first time Oak Ridge has
swept the series. Both teams played mediocre ball, probably due to the fact that it was the first encounters of
both teams. The first game was featured by a seventh-inning rally by Davidson in which they very nearly evened the
score. Both sides made several errors in the first of the game but seemed to tighten down as the game
continued.

The Oak Ridge team played tighter ball and seemed to be able to connect with the leather with greater ease
than the Davidson nine. The Wildcats amassed a total of errors to equal their runs and two more than their
hits. Covington and Grimm slammed out two pretty triples, Covington’s bringing in two runs in the sixth. Covington and Graham
were the only two men on the Davidson nine who played through the entire game without an error. Farley slammed
out three hits for Oak Ridge and also played well in the field.

The line-up:

DAVIDSON AB R H PO A E
Woodard, cf 1 1 3 0 0
Covington, 3b 1 1 1 2 1
S. Alford, ss 1 1 1 2 1
Meares, 1b 1 1 1 2 1
F. Alford, lf 1 1 1 2 1
Wells, rf 1 0 0 0 0
Davis, rf 1 0 0 0 0
Simpson, 2b 1 0 0 2 1
Kimbrough, 2b 1 0 0 0 0
Wrenn, c 1 0 0 5 1
Hampton, p 1 0 0 2 0
Vance, cf 1 0 0 2 0

(Continued on page 8)

Local Talent Play Will be Presented on Monday

Civic League to Stage the Flapper Grandmother to Shearer Hall Audience

Miss Viola Towler, a charming and vivacious little directoress, has picked her cast and is holding daily rehearsals for the
approaching presentation of The Flapper Grandmother, a rollicking comedy drama, to be staged under the auspices of the Civic League,
in Shearer Hall, April 7. Students and townspeople, alike, are viewing with interest and expectation the preparations for this unique
little three-act novelty.

The story of the play centers around the disgust of an antiquated old grandmother, who has grown weary of her
uneventful life, and has determined to become a modern flapper, with all the connotations the term implies. Suddenly becoming rich,
she sails to Paris; and returns to America a re-made woman. No longer an old lady with crow’s-feet, rheumatism, and
the other semblances of old age, she immediately begins to attract and captivate the youthful Romeos of Bingville. The play
now speeds along, enriched by its sparkling humor, to an unexpected conclusion. The count, who has professed love for the
flapper grandmother because of her riches, is led to believe that the oil stock has proved a poor investment—and immediately
ceases to show affection for the grandmother. Here, Dr. Joy, the childhood sweetheart and companion of the old lady, proves
his undying admiration and adoration; and, of course, the grandmother—with a young, unwrinkled face but the experienced body and heart
of an old woman—finds true happiness.

(Continued on page 8)

Thirty-Six Alumni and Friends Will Also Be Received

TODD TO SPEAK

New York Man’s Address Features Public Programme Preceding Banquet at Chambers Hotel

Friday night six members of the student body and thirty-six alumni and friends of Davidson College will be initiated and
publicly received into the fraternity of Omicron Delta Kappa—the highest fraternity of achievement along lines of student activity at the
college. Following the private initiation in Ku Hall, there will be a public ceremony at Shearer Hall at which Mr.
John R. Todd, of New York City, will deliver the address of the occasion.

The members of the student body to receive this honor are: James F. Milhous of the Senior Class; Nevin E.
Sappenfield, Hayden Hollingsworth, H. I. (Buck) Shaw, Roland B. Parker, and Conrad Frederick Smith of the Junior Class. Each of
these men has distinguished himself along various lines.

There are thirty-six alumni and friends of the college to be received into this honorary society. Of this number, seven
are from Charlotte; three from Concord, Gastonia, and Greensboro; four from Winston-Salem; two from Atlanta and Columbia, S. C.; and
one each from Clarkton, Durham, Eastover, Hendersonville, Clemson College, Lowell, and New York City.

The ceremonies will start off at 7 o'clock when the initiation ceremony will be observed in Ku Hall. Then at
eight o'clock in Shearer Hall the public program will commence. C. M. S. Mellwaine, president of the local chapter of
O. D. K., will preside. Rev. J. Tim Pharr will pronounce the invocation following which Dr. J. M. McConnell will
give a short history of O. D. K. Then J. A. Lake, vice-president of the fraternity, will...Read the list of
initiates other dents, with H. B. Price reading the list of students. Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson College,
will then introduce the speaker of the evening. Mr. John R. Todd is known by the students as the man
who several years ago gave a delightful talk on "Gee, ain't it grand to be boss." He is head of
one of the most successful construction companies in New York City. For many years he has shown his interest in
Davidson and his election to O.D.K. is very appropriate, his selection to speak at the public ceremony for (Continued on
page 7).

"Y" CABINET SELECTED BY HOLLINGSWORTH

A. H. Hollingsworth, newly elected president of the Davidson College Y.M.C.A., has selected the cabinet of that organization for next
year, and it is published here. The members of the cabinet are as follows:

Y Cabinet 1925-26:
W. T. Covington—Personal Work.
J. M. Garrison—Weekly Meetings.
A. Y. Bowie—Deputations.
D. G. Wilson—Entertainment.
W. E. Milton—Self-Help.
L. L. Deck—Handbook.
H. L. Shaw—Mission Fund.
G. M. Eddington—Sunday Schools.
T. C. Barr—Community Work.
R. B. Parker—Bible Study.
E. K. Regen—Mission Study.
J. M. Appleby—Boys’ Work.
W. A. Christian—Attendance Records.

Present Plans of Juniors Call for the Best Mirth-Provoking Speaking in Years

Blue Pencil Gives Bids to Four Men

Blue Pencil Chapter of Sigma Upsilon national literary fraternity elected the following men to membership Monday night: C. M. S.
Mellwaine, P. M. Patterson, S. W. Brown, Jr., R. B. Parker, C. F. Monk, E. P. O'Connor. All these men
are class of '26, and E. F. Smith, who has been a member since the regular elections last fall. All
of the men taken in have shown their ability in magazine and extra-curriculum activities, along with their class work and
other literary lines. Mellwaine has been interested in all literary work, and the Davidsonian. Patterson has been keenly interested in
the work on the Davidson College Magazine. S. W. Brown has contributed prose and verse to several issues of The
Davidson College Magazine and is the author of a one-act play put on by the Dramatic Club last autumn. Parker
has also been a Magazine contributor and is prominent in other lines. C. F. Monk has taken part in several
productions of the Dramatic Club, is a contributor to the Magazine, and is newly-elected editor of the Magazine for next
year. E. P. O'Connor is chiefly known for his verse which has appeared in copies of the Magazine for the
past two years. The program of Blue Pencil consisted, in addition to the election of new members, of contributions of
prose and verse, and is (Continued on page 6).

Street Carnival Will Be Main Attraction at the Gym Saturday

FOLLIES OF 1926

Old-time Minstrel and Original Play Are the Features of the Junior Follies

A Street Carnival will be the main feature of the Junior program arranged for Saturday night, April 11. At this
performance, the student body and visitors on the Hill will find varied types of entertainment. Everything typical of and necessary
to the Street Carnival will be found in the gymnasium at that time. Everything from fortune tellers to unbelievable feats
of magic, the pitching booth in which a way resembling that of Jethro will substitute for the willow, and other
mid-way attractions, will be housed in the big play-house that night. It will truly be a downpour of entertainment deluxe
and the biggest drop in the downpour will be the minstrel show, The Follies of 1926, which will be presented
in three parts. In part one, Frank Hudson, Ed Wilson, Fred Smith, Woodrow Wilson, and Pigey Martin will sing solos,
assisted by a chorus. Fred Smith, Flake Laird, Colin Murchison, and Harllee Branch will also feature the program for the
commencement exercises of the 1926 class of the Afro-American University of Illegitimate Science and Liberal Arts. (Continued on page 7).

Doctor Pratt of Louisville Holds Annual Life Work Service in Impressive Manner

Local Professor Speaks to Meeting of Freshmen

The Spirit of Davidson is Wachter’s Theme for Last Wednesday’s Address

The Freshman class had the privilege of hearing a very inspiring address by Prof. Carl Wachter last Wednesday night on
The Spirit of Davidson. This lecture had been delivered to the Seniors at their smoker the night before and they,
realizing the true Davidson spirit that had inspired Professor Wachter in delivering this, arranged for the Freshmen to have a
chance to hear it. The class attended in a body and many of the upperclassmen who had not heard it
the night before were also present. In his lecture, Professor Wachter stressed the fact that one only gets out of
Davidson what he puts into it. If its sons work and support it, Davidson will reward them fully. Professor Wachter
emphasized that one must work for Davidson for the pleasure of working for it, not for personal glory or reward,
but only for the fact that Davidson is being benefited by his work. And in doing this, it will reward
each man personally according to how he has worked for Davidson. Professor Wachter, although not an alumnus of Davidson, is
a true exemplification of Davidson spirit. In the few months of his stay here, Professor Wachter has been an ardent
supporter of every student activity, working for every athletic team, literary society, or any activity that is working for and
through Davidson. This lecture showed clearly that the best interests of Davidson were in his heart, for only through this
could he have brought out all of the valuable thoughts and truths expressed in it.

Dr. Pratt, from Louisville, conducted the first of a series of revival meetings at the Y.M.C.A. Sunday evening. These services
are an annual event on the Y.M.C.A.'s program of work among the boys at Davidson, and each year a prominent
worker in religious circles is obtained to conduct a series of meetings on the campus. This year Dr. Pratt comes
from Louisville, bringing with him two old Davidson students, Buck Currie and Bob Macleod, to assist him in the meeting.
The service last Sunday was opened with a song service by Buck Currie, after which Bob Oeland and Billy Woods
led the meeting in two prayers. Bob Macleod read the scripture from which Dr. Pratt took the text for his
talk which followed. The talk centered about a new interpretation of the parable of the Prodigal Son. Jesus gave this
parable not to represent the forgiving spirit of God the Father, but to represent the two types of people in
the world and their relation to the Father. The Prodigal Son, who grew tired of the sameness of life at
home, wanted to push forward in life, and represents the radicals. The son who stayed at home, as he had
led it all along, represents the conservatives, especially the conservative Pharisees before whom Jesus was speaking. Dr. Pratt said that
both types of people were necessary for life, the one to keep life moving, the other to control the balance
wheel and to keep humanity from flying off on a tangent. The fault of the radical lies in trying to
find satisfaction in a service other than that of Jesus Christ, while the conservative does not have a wide, comprehensive
view of just what Christian service is. This came down to what Christ and service for Christ was. Service for
Christ consists (Continued on page 5).
