THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Puzzles Prove Popular Pastime; Paper Proudly Progenitates Pepperish Puns

The Davidsonian has never been behind the times in anything, as any of its readers can testify. And believing that the cross-word puzzle craze is quite the stuff, this publication will start next week with a snappy and complete line of cross-country puzzles that will take the combined knowledge of a Socrates and a Noah Webster to unfathom. These popular pastimes have swept over the country like a tidal wave, until now dictionaries are more in demand than ice water in the summertime. All the college boys are working them, and Pa has to be driven to his work and Ma neglects her housework to solve the fantastic and alluring little criss-crosses that say little and mean much. The Davidsonian will furnish no little amount of entertainment to its readers with this series of puzzles, for they will be humorous and instructive at one and the same time.

These puzzles will be strictly home product and will fit in well with local gossip and conversation. It will now behoove each and every campus shiek to put on his thinking cap and fill in the little squares. A well-padded puzzle ought to cause more pride in a manly breast than a chest full of decorations. These aforesaid puzzles are said to be dandy to send to one’s girl. They will keep her mind occupied until the sender gets around next summer to press his claims in person.

It was with some misgiving that The Davidsonian entered upon this heretofore untried field of human knowledge. Several warned the directors that dire results would be sure to follow. Some predicted that the devotees would acquire strained eyes and cramped fingers, and would wear their Webster’s Unabridged to the bone. Some even say that anyone who fools with these alluring pieces of mental and stimulating literature will simply leave off their classes and fail to write their girls. However that may be, the first puzzle will appear in this paper next week. And to cap the climax, a grand and munificent prize will be offered to the successful solvers. It will be no easy matter to work them out, but it will be worthwhile.

Davidson Floral Wreath is Laid on Wilson’s Tomb

Dr. W. J. Martin Sends Wreath from Davidson for Special Memorial Exercises

Associated Press dispatches from Washington of a recent date carried an item of decided interest to Davidson College students and alumni, the item appearing prominently in the columns of newspapers throughout the country. The placing of a floral wreath from Dr. W. J. Martin, president of the college, on the tomb of the famous war-President and Davidson alumnus, Woodrow Wilson, occasioned the comment. The dispatch follows:

“Washington, Dec. 29.—(By the Associated Press.)—Woodrow Wilson’s undergraduate days at Davidson College were memorialized with the planting of a small pine tree on the grounds of the Episcopal cathedral at Mt. St. Alban Sunday and the placing of a wreath on the war-President’s tomb in the cathedral. The wreath was sent by Dr. William J. Martin, president of Davidson College, and bore the colors of the college.

“The exercises were concluded under the auspices of a group of local North Carolinians, headed by Mrs. Charles F. Taylor, and formal presentation of the tree was made by Miss Serene Williams, of Wallace, N. C. The memorial is associated with plans to create a Woodrow Wilson Davidson College scholarship memorial.

“The life and achievements of Mr. Wilson were extolled by Representative Abernethy, of New Bern, as the principal speaker at the ceremony. Miss Margaret Pou, daughter of Representative Pou, of North Carolina, acted as color bearer and the tree was accepted for the cathedral by Rev. W. L. Devries.

“The earth placed around the tree when it was planted was taken from ground near the room occupied by Mr. Wilson as a student at Davidson.”

PANDEINIC DEBATERS (Continued from page 1)

Eumenean: S. W. Brown, A. Y. Bowie, and C. L. Bragaw.
Pandeinic: W. E. Milton, J. M. Garrison, and H. L. Shaw.
Metrophilian: E. T. Pullen, R. B. Parker, and W. A. Patterson.

Look out

By Uncle Bud

Dear Uncle Bud:
Just lots of boys around here say they don’t like my hair, just because I try to make it look as if it were bobbed. One of them even told me that he thought it was dyed. Do you think so?
W. A. Patterson.

Dear W. A.:
No, I think it's false.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle Bud:
I have a bad case of hay fever. How can I get rid of it, and what causes it?
Dick Littlejohn.

Dear Richard:
There is no cure, and I hereby advise you to leave grass widows alone.
Uncle B.

Dear Uncle Bud:
I was up with vertigo nearly all last night, and my heart pains me dreadfully. Is there any hope?
Stout Montgomery.

Big Boy:
Tell me if she’s good looking, then I can advise.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle Bud:
I crave to go into the farming business and would like to know what weeds are the easiest to kill.
Piggy Martin.

Dear Piggy:
Widow's weeds are the easiest to do away with. Just say, “Wilt thou,” and they wilt.
Uncle Bud.

Dear Uncle Bud:
If you were immensely wealthy what would you like to have?
Yuk Hall.Yuk: I can think of nothing nicer than an alarm clock with a busted buzzer. Your Unk.

Dear Uncle Bud: What is an octogenarian? 
Stud Trawick.

Dear Stud: Haven't had time to look the word up and find the exact meaning, but those persons must be awfully unhealthy. Every time I read of one, he is either dying or dead.
Uncle B.

Dear Unk: How can I make a hit with my girl? She never pays any attention to me.
Warren Ogden.

Dear Warren: Tell her that she has a musical laugh, and she'll laugh at every one of your stale jokes.
The Old Man.

Dear Uncle: The other night I heard my little brother, Frank, using the awfullest language you ever heard. What do you suppose he meant by it?
Sion A.

Dear Sion: Perhaps he was just swearing off cussing for the new year.
Uncle Bud.

TRINITY CHANGES NAME (Continued from page 1)

One of her prominent opponents, along with Duke’s generosity, is glad that the school saw fit to accept the donation by changing the name to Duke University. Trinity is one of the beneficiaries of Mr. Duke.

Preliminaries for Senior Oration Next Thursday
Four Best Speakers Will Be Chosen From Large List of Entrants

The preliminaries for the Senior Oration will be held Thursday night, January 15th, in Shearer Hall. Any Senior is eligible and there is likely to be about 15 contestants out of which the four best speakers will be chosen for the literary society night program at commencement. Although this is a literary society meet, anyone may enter, and the four will be chosen who show up best, regardless of whether or not he belongs to a society. There will be some good speaking as most of these men are active members of the literary societies. The speeches will bring out their training and practice of the past four years. There will be a college medal awarded to the best speaker. The date has been postponed once but this is the final date decided upon.

SIGMA UPSILON MEMBERS HOLD BI-WEEKLY MEETINGS

The Blue Pencil chapter of the Sigma Upsilon honorary fraternity met Monday night in Phi Gamma hall. A varied and interesting program was given consisting of original plays and essays. A short story was read entitled, "Touchdown," by A. I. Simpson. A paper by A. M. Martin was read on the American Dramatic Critic, Winter; C. I. Smith read an original one-act play; an article was read by J. Gallant on Suppere.

Library News

Among the books recently added to the library, these should not be overlooked:

The Living Pageant by Robert Forrest Wilson. This is written by an American who is not a learned archeologist, but who is trained to the reporter's task of getting at the living truth with all its human interest. The Nile antiquities called to him that those whose hands fashioned them were elder brothers of ours—people much like ourselves. He found that there were not only giants in those days, there was also a great diversified mass of humanity hoping and fearing, suffering and rejoicing, working for its living, and having as good a time as it could while doing so.

The Negro From Africa to America, by W. D. Weatherford, Ph.D. Written by a recognized authority on the subject, this volume is undoubtedly destined to become the standard work on the many-sided and urgent problem of the Negro in America. The book gives the information desired regarding the African background of the Negro, the slavery source of his coming to America, and the religious, social, educational, and economic factors connected with his life in this country. Dr. Weatherford faces all issues squarely, and gives the plain facts in a way that will appeal to thoughtful people of both races.

Strife is caused in the ranks of the faculty at Mercer when Dr. Fox refuses to resign his chair as Professor of Biology on account of his beliefs on Evolution—"The New Student,” N.Y.

Waln-Over SHOES
“They’re Collegiate”

LEGION
The wide toe, short vamp, spring oxford in chrome russia, the new light tan, $9.00

Place your orders now
Complete line of samples always on display for your convenience
SULLIVAN BROS.
310 WEST

Here's the new short-vamp shoe, fellows, made to wear with those smart, wide-ankled trousers of yours.

The General Electric Company includes many specialists—engineers who know about tunnels; engineers who know about street lighting; engineers who know about the electrification of factories. These men are helping to build the better and happier America in which you will live. If you are interested in learning more about what electricity is doing, write for Reprint No. AR391 containing a complete set of these advertisements.

GENERAL ELECTRIC

Piercing the Great Divide

West of Denver is the Continental Divide; hemmed in behind it is an undeveloped district twice as large as Maryland. That fertile area the new Moffat Tunnel will open up. General Electric mine locomotives are carrying out the rock, and G-E motors are driving air compressors and pumping water from underground rivers.

The conquests of electricity on land and sea, in the air and underground, are making practical the impossibilities of yesterday. It remains only for men of ability to find new things to do tomorrow. Thus does Opportunity of 1925 beckon college men and women toward greater things as yet undreamed, and to a better world to live in.

GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY, SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK