THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1, 1925

DOCTORS McALLISTER AND ANDERSON SPEAK TO CLASS
(Continued from page 1)

ular pastors of that city, and by his personality and character has endeared himself not only to the members of his own congregation, but also many others in the city. He is especially liked as an orator and preacher, and his address before the Y. M. C. A. Sunday night at 8:00 p.m. was one of the most inspiring of those to be delivered this commencement.

Rev. James Gray McAllister, who is to deliver the Baccalaureate Sermon, is a graduate of Hampden-Sidney College, in the class of 1894, and is one of the honor graduates from that institution. He attended Union Theological Seminary, and graduated from there in 1901; he was the first holder of the Hoge Fellowship, the highest honor given to a member of each Senior Class at the seminary. In the year 1906 he received his D.D. degree from two institutions, Washington and Jefferson College, and also Centre College. After finishing his work as a student at Union he remained as a Professor, from 1902-1905. He was elected President of his alma mater, Hampden-Sidney, and remained its head for four years, from 1905-1908. At present he is a professor in Kentucky Theological Seminary, Louisville, Ky., but has recently accepted a request from Union Theological Seminary to become a professor there. Dr. McAllister is well known as an orator, and is one of the most popular speakers at Montreat every summer. Within the last two years he has made an extended trip to the Orient, spending a considerable time in the Holy Land. His interesting articles on this trip were published this past winter in the Christian Observer. So popular have they proved that he has made plans to publish them in book form. Those who have heard him say that he is a very interesting and forceful speaker, and it is expected that he will present a splendid Baccalaureate Sermon.

Rev. Neal Larkin Anderson, D.D., is a graduate of Davidson, in the class of 1885. While in college here he was a member of the Eumenean Literary Society. He is more than a mere graduate son of Davidson, as his father was a Professor in this institution from 1866-1874. His father was Prof. J. M. Anderson, and while here he and his family lived in the building now called “Louisiana.” Dr. Anderson attended Princeton Theological Seminary, and was a member of the class of 1887. Since taking his theological course he has received his Doctor of Divinity degree from Davidson. He has had several important pastorates, among them Birmingham and Winston-Salem. As has already been stated he is now pastor of the Independent Church in Savannah, Ga. This church is not connected with the Southern Presbyterian Assembly, but secures its pastors from it. It was in this church that the father of Woodrow Wilson was pastor, during the boyhood of that future famous son of Davidson. Dr. Anderson was for a time President of the Texas Theological Seminary, Austin, Tex. He is now one of the Trustees of Davidson College, and has long been a loyal son to his alma mater. Because of the worth and ability of these two men, those who were privileged to hear them on the opening day of Commencement were richly rewarded for their attendance on both of these meetings.

Old Chambers Bell Replaced by Hon. Brevard McDowell

The old college bell, which had rung its diverse summons to fifteen generations of students, tolled for the last time on the early morning of November 18, 1921. The fire partly melted the bell, and the fall caused the rest to be broken into bits. For a time following the incineration of Chambers, the shrieks of a steam whistle attached to the roof of the Commissary summoned students to classes. This, however, so often got out of order that it was found necessary to substitute a train engine bell.This worked admirably for a time, but the need of a larger and better bell was strongly felt. Hon. Brevard McDowell, of Charlotte, saw the need and donated to Davidson the splendid bell which it now possesses. The gift was presented in an impressive ceremony on the morning of September 14, 1922, as a memorial to the Davidson heroes who died during the war. At this ceremony, Dr. J. W. McConnell introduced Mr. McDowell, one-time mayor of Charlotte. The Hon. Brevard McDowell responded, stating his gladness in making the gift. Dr. Martin accepted the donation on behalf of the administration, and Sam Davis, on behalf of the student body of the college. The honor of first ringing the bell was reserved for the donor. At the last note of the bell, cheer after cheer rang from the students for Mr. McDowell and the bell. The ceremony will linger in the minds of the classes of '23, '24, '25, and '26. The new bell hangs in a temporary tower north of the armory until a permanent place is provided for it in the new Chambers building.

Second X-Ray Picture in Country Chambers Physics Lab:
The second x-ray picture ever made in the United States was made at Davidson in the old physics laboratory on the first floor of the old Chambers building. 

She—“What a pity it is that handsome men are always conceited.”
Joe McConnell—“Not always, little girl. I’m not.”

The success of The Davidsonian during the past year is in no small measure due to the efficient cooperation and services of the Presbyterian Standard Publishing Company. During the term of the staff which finished its work with the first issue in April, the paper never failed to come out on time. The Collegiate Press Association, which convened, said Dr. R. H. Lafferty, Charlotte x-ray specialist, in speaking before the biology classes of the Central High School, Charlotte, on May 8. The picture was taken by a group of students among whom was Osmond L. Barringer, of Charlotte, on January 12, 1895. The first to be made in this country was taken on January 5, 1895, just a week prior to the picture made at Davidson.

Success of Paper During Year Due to Efficiency of Presbyterian Standard:
Their cooperation helps Davidson. The balanced make-up of the paper was especially noticed. The instructions concerning make-up were closely followed by the printers, and in the case of shorter news items which were sent in as fillers, they were always placed to good advantage. The material for the paper is turned in to the editors on Monday, and that night the paper is edited. Tuesday morning the copy is mailed to the Presbyterian Standard, and on Thursday afternoon the paper is delivered at Davidson. Due to the poor schedule of mail trains, it is hard to get late news into the paper, but repeatedly, during the past year, so efficient has been the service of the Standard that reports of happenings Tuesday and Tuesday evening have appeared in the Thursday number. Despite the many handicaps due to the difficulty of getting copy to the printers, and the fact that once the material is out of their hands, the editors cannot make changes, as they could if the paper were printed in the same town, except under special circumstances, no criticism can be made of the way in which the Standard has handled their end of the job. Considering the difficulties, the retiring staff is especially proud of the record which the paper has made, and hopes that the future editors and business managers of the paper may carry to still greater success the paper which for 11 years has served the students of Davidson College, and her alumni and friends.

Reception Given to Alumni by Faculty:
The Davidson College faculty will give their annual reception for the alumni and the parents and friends of the graduating class tomorrow afternoon from five to six on the campus between Elm Row and the old Y.M.C.A. building. Punch and cakes will be served on tables set on the campus by the faculty reception committee, and everyone is cordially invited to attend the occasion. Mrs. H. B. Arbuckle is chairman of the committee and has complete charge of all the arrangements. Mrs. J. M. Douglas, Mrs. Agnes Brown, Mrs. E. J. Erwin, Mrs. O. J. Thies, Prof. A. V. Goldieu, and Prof. A. Currie make up the committee. Preparations have been made for five hundred of the visitors, who will be guests of the faculty at this time.

Top: Eu and Phi Halls with Shearer Hall in background.
Center: Old Dormitory Row, left to right, Rumple, Watts, Georgia.
Bottom: The Walk from the columns of Chambers to Main Street.