THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

And Carolina has a multiplicity of backfield stars and an array of reserve material that surpasses that of any of
the other Tar Heel elevens. May victory come to Wildcats. Carolina has been pulling that trick this year and has
piled up a great record following the early defeat by Wake Forest. Messrs. H. S. and L. Richardson, donors of
Richardson Field, were interested spectators at the game with N. C. State.

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

Furman Backs Run Wild
42-0 Score in Greenville Game — Schneider Stars

The Furman Freshman eleven swept down the field to hold the great Hurricane eleven as their varsity had done earlier
in the season, but the team that Coach Norson has developed could not have been held by many first-year squads
in the Carolinas. Time after time the Purple eleven swept across the field for wide end runs that spelt defeat
to the Davidson team, Schneider leading the offense of the Furman crew with some of the prettiest broken field running
and slashing line driving ever seen upon a football field.

He was ably supported by Blunt, who scored the second touchdown, and Capps and Davis. Davis sent the ball over
for a field goal in the first quarter, kicking from a difficult angle at a 30-yard distance. The great backfield
of the Furman crew received the ball on kick-off and marched down the field for 60 yards to a touchdown.
Receiving the ball again, Capps pulled a great play in punting on the first down with the ball in mid-field,
Tidwell, who played a neat game at end, covering the punt on Davidson's five-yard line. When the Wildkittens kicked out
30 yards, Furman opened up again for a touchdown march. A field goal by Davis closed the period at 16-0
for the home eleven.

Davidson Tries Rally
After Furman had run the score up to 35-0, the Davidson team showed a comeback, marching down the field for
about 35 yards. Meyers, right end, played the greatest game for Davidson. Well looked good in the backfield. James was
injured in the second period but came back as the game was closing for some distinctly foreign game playing. Holengreen
also played great on the Wildcat line, smashing up the opposing plays.

Position Davidson
Whol) 35 I) 2222225 NicGonnell
cox fe Dankver
Wiggs sauracccs PAT
opegeaeene™ Smith
newiofh) 2 Ge ee Kerr
Goble-s==<=-s----- RG --__.. Holmgreen
Stmonee eo RG? aeceneeem Leftwich
MecFairly Be ee ere apna Myers
Gay pS ee OBes sere Winburg
SMD eye LH James

Tate-Brown Co.
Hea! a WeNkoybhale FB Black

Score by quarters:
Furman Fresh —-----__- 16 7 12 7—42
Davidson Fresh ~-___- 0 0 0 6— 0

Scoring, touchdowns: Schneider (4), Davis (2), Blunt. Field goals: Davis (2).

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Don Wharton

Following the greatest disappointment of the Wildcat season, this column has been turned over to me for a week. The
less that is written about last week's game the better, for little could be said in praise of the Davidson
team, far less for the student body. But while speaking of tie games, it is to be remembered that Jim
Hendrix, the least faltering of the Wildcats against Hampden-Sidney, has figured prominently in no-decision bouts since his entry at Davidson.
Since he has been on the varsity squad—and that means since his first day at Davidson—Hendrix has seen the Wildcats
come out of seven contests without either team winning. Jim has played in five of these games. His first tie
came in the fall of 1921 when the Wildcats were battling in Richmond against a university of that name. The
papers of the city were flouting headlines of a 14-0 victory for the Baptists, but in the last four or
five minutes, the Wildcats staged their greatest rallies, scoring two touchdowns and kicking both of the goals. Coach Grey used
two complete backfields.

The next two games on the Davidson schedule resulted in ties. State and Davidson battled to a 3-3 draw on
Wearn Field, and then came the wonderful scoreless game at Winston-Salem with Carolina. Jim, being a freshman, could not be
used in either of these games on account of being an honorable one. The next drawless game on Hendrix's schedule
was the wonder tie with the Virginia Tech eleven, when he played against Coach Tilson. He and Laird are the
only men playing for Davidson.who played against this coach. Last year Hendrix was the outstanding star of the great Wildcat
for a tie game with the Carolina Techmen at Pinehurst, resulting in a 10-10 score. He scored the tying touchdown.
It was a different Hendrix that went on Wearn Field early in this season and led the Wildcats against Wake
Forest. Awaiting the sudden 7-7 game with the call of Sappenfield for sprint or pass was a cool field general
marshalling his forces after being swept down the field in the first few minutes. While writing of great backfield men
it might be a good idea to casually speak of “Red” Schneider, captain of the Freshman Hurricane at Furman. Weighing
one hundred and ninety pounds, faster than any of the varsity and harder to tackle than a greased pig, this
halfback scored four touchdowns on the yearlings—Davidson year—which does not cast any reflection upon the yearlings either. He was an
all-southern man in Memphis high school circles, and with a good line before him bids fair to repeat in the
collegiate world. When he left for college the home papers said that the city was losing the greatest football prospect
in its history. And don't forget that Mallory, rated as football's greatest defensive back while leading the Yale eleven, was
a son of Memphis.

Picking an all-state eleven this year is going to be about as hard a job as forecasting a Dartmouth-Cornell score.
Hendrix and Rackley are the outstanding quarters but woe to the sports editor who rushes ahead with the halves and
fullback. But they didn’t watch Atkins. Blount, Gane Dropkick, Davis; point after touchdowns, Davis, 3. Referee, Black, (Davidson), Bradley (Furman);
Head linesman, Huggins, (The Citadel).

Captain Elkins issued a boxing call at Davidson—Professional Coach to be Engaged Later. Thirty candidates turned out last week for
the first boxing practice. At present Captain Elkins, who will coach boxing, is getting his men in first-class physical condition.
The practice now consists of a long run, and various games which strengthen the men and teach them to keep
mentally alert. They have not even had the gloves on yet. But as soon as they are in good condition,
Captain Elkins will start giving them the rudiments of boxing. When the men have reached a fair degree of proficiency,
a professional will be engaged to put on the finishing touches. Later on, elimination bouts will be held to choose
the champion of the college. Those who show up best in these bouts will make up the team. If the
team shows up as it is expected, it will have matches with some of the largest colleges and universities of
the South. Although this is the first year that Davidson has had a boxing team, it is hoped and expected
that it will make a good showing. There is some good material among the thirty candidates, but very few had
any previous experience. Elkins would like to have at least thirty more out. If one is not out for any
sport, boxing at Davidson needs him. It does not matter whether he has any previous experience. Many who have never
even had a pair of gloves on before are making a fine showing. Practice is held at four-thirty every afternoon
in the gym.

MILITARY COMPANIES HAVE CAMPUS GAMES

Last Thursday the Sophomores of Company A defeated the Sophomores of Companies A, B, and C combined in a closely
contested game of Cage Ball. These games are not for the R. O. T. C. alone but for the whole
student body. Athletic equipment for various games may be obtained in the Armory at any time. Come and use it
whenever you have a vacant period.

PHI BETA KAPPA HONORS

(Continued from page 1)

He is a member of Scabbard and Blade, and Alpha Phi Epsilon. He is a Captain in the R. O.
T. C. In literary society work he has been prominent, having been an inter-collegiate debater and being at present president
of the Philanthropic Literary Society. I. K. Regen is at present manager of football, president of the Volunteer Band, and
a member of the “Y” Cabinet, the annual staff, I. C. and O. D. K. He made the Honor Roll
his Junior year, and was vice-president of the Sophomore class.

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Columbia Theological Seminary

1. The enrollment in the Junior Class equals the combined enrollment of the Middle and Senior Classes.
2. The second term begins February 9, 1926.
3. The Seminary has for ninety-seven years maintained the highest standard of entrance requirements and excellence in scholarship.
4. To receive our degrees, a student must present a bachelor’s degree from a reputable college.
5. A special English course, with no degree offered, is provided for worthy students, who come with approval of Presbytery;
but who present no college degree.
6. A catalogue, bulletins and other information furnished on request.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

When in need of first-class job printing of any description, see FRED SMITH
8 South Barracks
QUICK SERVICE
BEST PRICES
Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.
Charlotte, N. C.

In College Display
10:00 A. M. to 4:00 P. M. every Friday
Appleby & Milton, Mgrs.
ALL KINDS OF CLOTHING AND ACCESSORIES
Sold out of stock. No waiting. Carry it with you as you go
Harrison Clothing Co. Room

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE
