THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 23, 1925

Losing, as we did last Saturday, the DAVIDSON game was played at Richmond against the “Spiders” of the University of
Richmond. The whole student body was looking forward to the game to be played the next week with Citadel.

The only recent news from the alumni seems to indicate that they are very much interested in matrimonial activities. We
never close. Any time college we are presented with several interesting facts of five years ago. The Wildcat football team
had as its coach, Hugh Grey, and under his able guidance was making an enviable record. It is interesting to
note that the team had just won a game by 7-0 instead of losing, as we did last Saturday.

The Glee Club had just been organized again with Charlie Vance as leader. From forty to fifty men tried out,
among whom there was some very promising material. Several trips were planned for the fall and spring and everyone was
looking forward to a big year. Both literary societies, the Eu and the Phi, were going in full swing at
this time. They gave promise of staging lively debates and spirited literary contests of various kinds. This was the year
of the exciting Harding-Cox election, when the question of the League of Nations was one of the main points at
issue. Davidson had its share of interest in this important campaign; the Cox-Roosevelt Club was formed for the purpose of
aiding the Democratic cause in every way possible. The club raised a fund of $250 to aid in carrying on
the campaign. All students who had reached the voting age were urged to go to the polls. As usual, this
publication was struggling along in financial straits.

Prof.—"Mr. Platt, give me a sentence with the word “wheels” in it.”
Platt—"The wheels in a dog's tail go round and round.”
Prof.—"That’s wrong, nothing but wagons have wheels.”
Platt—"Well, the dog’s tail was a waggin’.”

THE KELLY CLOTHING COMPANY
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Correct Dressers for Men and Boys
Clothing and Furnishings for college boys
Your most convenient point to buy standard merchandise

YOUR APPEARANCE
Is very important, in fact it is absolutely necessary to appear at your best at all times.
LET US ASSIST YOU.
THE COMMERCIAL BARBER SHOP
Statesville, N. C.
Next to Postal Telegraph
P. C. McILWAINE, Mgr.

SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
Prompt attention to orders for fine Ice Cream
SELBY ICE CREAM CO.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

We can show you a complete line of SWEATERS, TROUSERS, HATS AND SHOES
Just received; a new fall shipment of Manhattan Shirts and Pajamas.
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
(DAVIDSON’S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

At present, following are several announcements of marriages:
The Rev. Grady Brown, of Reidsville, N. C., will be married to Miss Evelyn Elizabeth Sadler on November 10, 1925,
at Steele Creek Presbyterian Church near Charlotte, N. C.
The marriage of Rev. Joseph James Murray, of Lexington, Va., to Miss Jane Dickson Vardell, of Red Springs, N. C.,
will be solemnized November 12, 1925.
Dr. Phillip Barbour Price and Miss Octavia Duvall Howard are to be married on November 19, 1925 in Baltimore, Md.
Dr. and Mrs. Price will go to China soon after their marriage.
Mr. Dan Ingram McKeithen, of Aberdeen, N. C., and Miss Eleanor Herndon, of York, S. C., will be married November
6, 1925.
Rev. Daniel Coppedge Stogner and Miss Anabel Wilson, of Anderson, S. C., were married October 1, 1925. Mr. and Mrs.
Stogner are at home in Simpsonville, S. C.

News has been received from Dr. J. P. Matheson in Vienna where he says he is enjoying life but he
also adds that his motto is: “American and that it always shall be.” The following Davidson men are attending the
seminary at Louisville, Ky. this year: L. Currie, ’21;J. W. Groves, '22; L. A. Taylor, '22; R. L. McCleod, Jr.,
'23; A. D. McArn, '20; A. C. Wildman, '24; C. V. Brown, Jr., '24; R. M. Cochran, ex-'23; R. F.
Davidson, '23; and A. M. Martin, '25.

Soph Cagers Turn Back Both Fresh and Seniors

Second Year Men Down Freshmen 22-18—Seniors Receive Small End of 31-7 Score

In a slow and very uninteresting game for Americans, the Sophs defeated the Freshmen in their basketball game of the
present season by the one-sided score of 31 to 7. Of course, the odds were all in the favor of
the second-year men and the fact that the other team had not played together helps to explain the large score
piled up by the Sophs.

From the start of the game, Weld and Calhoun, working automatically, shot ten points and with the aid of the
captain, Wilson, made it 14 for the half. The second half marked the best work of the more experienced team.
Weld for the Sophs outshone all opposition and got possession of the ball to shoot or pass it to someone
else in position to shoot. The outstanding star of the game was Wilson of the Sophs, who played standing guard
for them, led in scoring with nine points. Sturdivant was the only Freshman that caused any trouble for the Sophs.

Sophs (31) Fresh (7)
Calhoun (6)--------- Hunt
Weld (7)
Wilson (9)---

Subs—Sophs: MacCauley, Kugler (3), Withers (3), Oden (4). Fresh: Brown, Hancock (1), Kelly, Query (2), Covington. Referee: Simpson; Scorer, Moore.

Piling up a score that could not be overcome in spite of the fact that numerous substitutions were made, the
Sophomores defeated the Seniors last Thursday night 22 to 18. This defeat was the first upset of the season and
it is doubtful if there will be another one as startling as this throughout the league. The only reconciling features
of the game as far as the Seniors were concerned, was the playing of Parker at guard in the first
half and the comeback staged in the second half by the seemingly defeated crew, although it was futile. All credit
was due to the Sophs. Entering the game against heavy odds they staged a type of battle that was not
to be denied and although out-played during the second half almost as much as they had outplayed their rivals in
the first half, they had sufficient score to give them the margin of victory.

The score:
Seniors (18) Sophs (22)
Cooke (C) F. F. Calhoun (6)
Lawson (8) L. F. Weld (5)

Subs—Seniors: Moroe, Huie (2), Oneal. Sophs: Oden, D., Taylor, Kugler. Referee, Hewlett. Scorer, Mauze.

HONORARY FRATERNITY COUNCIL MEETS

The Honorary Fraternity Council met recently and is functioning under its new officers. They are: R. W. Graves, President; L.
B. Huie, Vice-President; and J. J. Earnhardt, Secretary and Treasurer. The Council has been assigned to a room in Concord
Building and it hopes to have the room furnished and ready for use within the next few weeks. At the
last meeting, the spring bid date was discussed but as yet no definite day has been decided upon.

If you get hungry, come up.

TOWELL’S FILLING STATION
Davidson, N. C.

Have those old shoes rebuilt. Service is our watchword.

E. A. FRYE SHOE SHOP
Representatives STEVE WALL and J. D. LAW

of Mooresville Drug Company
Next Door to M. and F. Bank

Davidson College students always welcome to our store

NONE TOO SMALL
DUNN, President
JOHNSTON, Vice-President
R. A. DUNN, Vice-President
W. A. WATSON, Vice-President
T. S. McPHEETERS, Assistant Cashier
W. STEWART, Cashier and Trust Officer
B. DOAR, Asst. Trust Officer

Capital, Surplus, Etc., Over $1,200,000.00

The Commercial National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.

LEST YOU FORGET WE ARE STILL GLAD TO BE OF SERVICE TO YOU

If you need a suit, either one or two-trouser suit, let us show you before you make a decision. Knickers,
extra trousers. Sport Sweaters, Golf Stockings, Golf

BELK BROTHERS CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

ARE YOU HUNGRY? WE HAVE FRESH Fruits Candy Sandwiches Milk Cigarettes, etc. COME IN AND EAT

The Student’s Store
“It’s yours, why not patronize it?”
