6. THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

Parker Appoints Committees From the Senior Class

The Senior class, under the able leadership of its president, Roland Parker, is striving to perfect all plans for its year’s program before Christmas. The class is a scene of internal activity as the many committees appointed by Parker are functioning effectively. This is the first time that there has been an endeavor to have all plans in a tangible condition so early, and judging from the work being expended on the various phases of the work, a bigger and better commencement should result. The committees appointed and now working are as follows:

Committee on class gift: Appleby, chairman; Garrison, O'Neal, Graves, Brenner, Baker, Ratchford, Houston, Shaw. The class has decided on the gift and is reserving the announcement of its nature for a later date.

Committee on selecting class mark of distinction: Spier, chairman; Lynch, Lawson, T. S. This committee has written to 25 colleges asking for suggestions, and in the near future the class will appear with some mark of distinction.

Committee for selecting Commencement Baccalaureate speaker: Barr, chairman; Regen, Bowie, Yergen, Williford.

Committee for selecting Commencement Literary speaker: Hollingsworth, chairman; Monk, Franklin, Brown, Pullen.

Banquet committee: Huie, chairman; Ragen, Lovelace, Deck, Melton, Miller.

Memorial committee: M. E. Miller, chairman; Houston, O'Neal.

Invitation committee: Shaddock, chairman; H. C. Lawson, M. E. Miller.

Every man on every committee has been chosen with care, with the idea in view of having each man in a position he is most familiar with and in one he can most capably fill. The whole class is showing a splendid disposition to work behind those who have been placed in places of responsibility, so that they may look back on their last year at Davidson with a justified pride.

JUNIORS COMPLETE PLANS
(Continued from page 1)

...his withdrawal to enter the school of art, and was considered one of the finest art contributors of the school. His work appeared in several of the college publications last year. The editors hope to have the frontispiece in various colors, so as to make the Magazine...

PHONE 24 ANY HOUR OF THE 24
YELLOW CAB CO. - Charlotte, N. C.

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION
We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest.
The Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

We can show you a complete line of SWEATERS, TROUSERS, HATS AND SHOES. Just received; a new fall shipment of Manhattan Shirts and Pajamas.
THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO.
(DAVIDSON'S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)

Deck is Appointed Head of Fresh Control Court

As Many Men Work, Competition Rises

Prominent Senior Chosen to Fill Unexpired Term of Frank Hudson

L. L. Deck has been elected to complete the unexpired term of the late Frank Hudson as Judge of the Court of Control. F. Kugler was elected to take the place left vacant by Deck’s advancement, as one of the three Senior members of the court.

Deck is one of the prominent men on the campus. During his Sophomore year he was chairman of the Sophomore committee for the Freshman cap burning night. He is very active in the literary work on the campus, being a member of the Pandemic Society. He was editor and business manager of the 1925-26 “Y" Handbook, was business manager of the Davidson College Magazine last year and is business manager of the “Quips and Cranks” this year. Deck is second ranking captain of the local R. O. T. C. Battalion, and was recently extended a bid to the Scabbard and Blade, and he is also a member of Omicron Delta Kappa.

The student form of government has proved successful since its inauguration at Davidson College several years ago. Each new class learns to respect the rules and regulations set down in the constitution of the student body and there are few violations which the court rules as unworthy of a true Davidson man.

The membership of the Court of Control now is as follows: L. L. Deck, Judge; L. B. Huie, M. E. Miller, F. C. Kugler, Senior members; C. C. Murchison, R. L. Lincoln, Junior members; R. McRae, P. R. Maudlen, Sophomore members.

MONOGRAM CLUB
(Continued from page 1)

...to keep his wits about him lest he fall under the spell of the reader and think himself in the presence of a British soldier in far India or a British tar rounding Cape Horn.” An editorial in the same...issue made the following statements: Wachter characterized soldiers, sailors, St. Peter, and the devil with equal success. Bent the best received of his selections was his rendition of Masefield's Cape Horn Gospel. Even the most experienced tobacco chewers on the campus, and their name is legion, were forced grudgingly to admit that as the old British tar, the Professor could not be beat. Professor Wachter’s interpretation made Kipling’s poem seem one hundred per cent more realistic, and to add to Kipling’s power is genius indeed.

An added reason why everyone should avail himself of this opportunity to hear Prof. Wachter give the Kipling program is that it is the only Kipling recital that he will give here this year and perhaps it will be the last opportunity the students will have to hear him in an evening platform reading.

Since the announcement that Prof. Wachter was to give the Kipling recital he has been besieged by insistent requests not to omit “Tomlinson” nor “Gunga Din” and by all means to repeat Masefield’s “Cape Horn Gospel.” He had planned to give the “Explorer” which is one of Kipling’s unquestioned masterpieces and several other numbers not included in last year's program, but art is long and time is fleeting and Prof. Wachter intends to limit the entire program to an hour and a half. However, whether the numbers are new or old Prof. Wachter will be greeted on Tuesday evening by an audience eager to listen and ready to applaud. And unless all signs fail, it will be an audience which will overflow Shearer Hall, and late comers will be greeted by the ushers with the statement “standing room only.”

“The worst thing about living a double life,” says Roland Parker, “is that a fellow seldom gets through twice as soon.”

The distribution of magazines will be made at the Saturday night performance in the gymnasium.

FELLOWS! “We never close. Any time you get hungry, come up. TOWELL’S FILLING STATION Davidson, N. C.

Out Daily On Mat! Approximately a dozen men are now out for positions on the wrestling team. There are four letter men of this sport back this year: Captain Bill Cox, Manager Joe Frierson, Harry Vance, and J. C. Barrington. Vance, who is at present with the football team, will report out for wrestling immediately after the close of the football season. Besides these letter men, the following men are out:

119 pound class—Blythe, Wildman, McCutcheon, Carrington, McCullen, and Willard.
129 pound class—Harrall, Sloan, James, Lovelace, Nichols, and Copelan.
139 pound class—Woodham, Houck, Glenn, Davis, Wilson, and Williford.
149 pound class—Garrison, McGeachy, Hunter, and Meadows.
161 pound class—Albright, Hill, Harper, and Baker.
175 pound class—Vance.
Unlimited class—Purcell, Joyner, Stowe, and Mauldin.

The team is fortunate in having Captain Weems to coach them again this year. Captain Weems was a star wrestler while at West Point, and was captain of the wrestling team during his last year there. A handsome gold medal will be awarded by Captain Weems to the Freshman who proves himself to be the best wrestler in his class. This and the fact that they are eligible for the varsity in this sport, should be an added incentive toward making many Freshmen try out for the team.

Manager Frierson has not as yet been able to complete the schedule for the year, but is sure of several good matches. The team will take on Navy, at Annapolis, this year, and will make one trip into Virginia, having matches with the University of Virginia, and V. P. I. Two opening matches have been procured with Concord “Y”, State, Duke, and Carolina will probably be met.

Honest John, the shoemaker, was telling his girl goodnight. It was late. She leaned her head against his shoulder. “Shoemaker,” said she, “stick to your last.”

ARMY SALVAGE CO. OFFERS: Everything in army goods---Hobnails---army shoes---boots---army shirts---lumberjack shirts---wool army trousers---leather leggings. Come to see us and get fixed up for the rough weather. ARMY SALVAGE CO. Statesville, N.C.

INSURANCE We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it. McA. CARSON, Mgr. Independence Trust Co. Insurance Department. Charlotte, N.C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL” PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS VICTROLAS RECORDS AND ROLLS Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments SHEET MUSIC OLDEST IN THE STATE ANDREWS