= EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SESSION 1924-25

| JAN. | FRESHMAN | SOPHOMORE | JUNIOR & SENIOR |
|------|-----------|-----------|-----------------|
| Thurs. | A. M. | No classes | No classes | No classes |
| 22 | P.M. | English 1 | English 2 | English 3 or 4 | English 5 or 6
|
| Fri. | A. M. | Physics 1 | Physics 2, 3 and 4 | Pub. Speaking |
| 23 | P.M. | Pol. Science 1 | Accounting |
| Sat. | A. M. | Spanish 1 | Spanish 2 | Spanish 3, 4, 5, 6 |
| 24 | P.M. | Bible 1 | Bible 2 | Applied Math. 1 and 2 | Astronomy, Geology |
| Tues. | A. M. | Phys. and Hyg. | Psychology 1, 2, 3, 4 |
| 27 | P.M. | French 1 | French 2 | French 3 | Philosophy 1, 2 |
| Wed. | A. M. | Economics 1, 2 and 3 |
| 28 | P.M. | Math. 1 | Math. 2 | Math. 3 and 4 | Polit. Sc. | Education
1 | Christian Ev. or Ch. Hist. |
| Thurs. | A. M. | Latin 1 | Latin 2 | Law | Education 2 |
| 29 | P.M. | Biology 1 | Biology 2 | Biology 3, 4 |
| Fri. | A. M. | History 1 | History 2, 3, 4, 5 |
| 30 | P.M. | Chem. 1 | Chem. 2 | Chem. 3, 4, 5, 6 |
| Sat. | A.M. | German 1 | German 2 | German 3, 4 |
| 31 | P.M. | Greek 1 | Greek 2 | Greek 3, 5, 6 |
| | | ROTC 2 | ROTC 3, 4 |

---

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Coach Monk Planning a Real Baseball Diamond

Practice For Pitchers Starts February First—Only Grass Infield in State

Under the capable direction of Coach Monk, work on the baseball diamond has been progressing rapidly. The managers and assistants
have been “putting out” labor with generosity which has brought results. When the season opens, Davidson will be able to
present one of the best, if not the best, diamonds in the state.

During the past month, they have been busy cleaning the field, clipping the outfield grass, and drawing the base lines.
The work is nearly ended, so the field should be in fine shape when Younger issues his call for baseball
candidates. A novel and pleasing feature of the diamond is that it will have a grass infield, which will be
a great improvement. The Wildcats can boast of having the only infield of this sort on a college diamond in
the state, it being a new innovation in collegiate baseball circles of this state. A grass infield will help the
already good diamond, and the Wildcat infield should be in their prime cavorting on it. The infield allows much faster
work and should add much color to the games this season.

The card this season, according to Manager Briggs, is the most comprehensive ever undertaken by a Wildcat team. The season
opens on the Hill on the 28th and 29th of March when Oak Ridge furnishes the opposition. From then on,
the nine has a row of hard games, and some of the crack collegiate nines will be seen in action
on Richardson field. After exams, the season will come on with a rush. Coach Monk announced that practice for pitchers
would start as early as February.

---

DAVIDSON STUDENTS GO (Continued from page 1)

were M. M. Teague, G. R. Shaddock, and F. R. Hudson. The convention began on the evening of Sunday, December
28th, with headquarters at the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel, and ended on the evening of Wednesday, December 31st. The days were
largely spent in carrying on the business of the fraternity. The main items of interest were the re-establishment of a
pre-war chapter, Virginia Kappa, at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va., and the re-election of Governor William W. Brandon, of
Alabama, as Honorary Emminant Supreme Archon. The renewal of the charter at William and Mary brings the total number of
chapters to 95.

The opening meeting of the convention was in the form of a memorial service held Sunday night for all members
who had died since the last convention and who had been killed in the World War. After this service, a
model initiation was put on, in which 17 pledges from the four chapters in Georgia were initiated. A tea dance
was given Monday afternoon at the Capital City Club, and the convention banquet was held Monday night. The form of
entertainment Tuesday night was a supper dance at the Piedmont Driving Club. The convention ended with a Dutch supper at
the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel, Wednesday night.

---

Theta Upsilon Omega

J. M. Appleby and O. J. Allison returned to Davidson Monday night from Philadelphia, Penn., where they represented Kappa Alpha
chapter of Theta Upsilon Omega.

---

In the forty-seventh year of Baxter, during the reign of Helper, the tender hearts of youthful subjects in the kingdom
of Wildcats did long to seek the dwelling place of their Papas. So earnest was this homing instinct that unusually
long and prolonged were the plans for the heart-rending departure. So tender was the feeling of the noble line for
his subjects, that he did speak to the queen of his inclination to heighten his grief by weeping.

Ben, son of Franklin, did take upon his spacious back an instrument of deception, commonly called a pack, and set
himself out upon the highways, where, with tender and pleading glances, he did coax himself into the chariots of gasoline,
one and many, until he did approach the hall tree of his papa’s house, where he hung his weary pack.
And he did do this, even by the second setting of the sun, counting from the day he set himself
out to deceive and beg his way into the homeland.

Frederick, son of Smith, did likewise seek his native country, and even many others. Henderson, the Fordimite, having chariots of
sheet metal, did offer them unto a group of dwellers having papas in a far country for a consideration not
exceeding the actual worth of these human burden-bearers. The goodness of this Fordimite so touched the hearts of the tender
and humble Wildcats, that they grasped the chariots by the wheels of guidance and did urge them toward their papa’s
houses.

Even unto the number of one-score less four did depart in this manner. Ever Hayden, son of Hollingsworth; Yeargen, the
mighty of feet; Litch, of the tribe of Huies; McMillan, the Countryite; Shelby, of long socks, and many others did
cast themselves into the charging chariots of the Fordimite and right gladly urged the gas buggies onward.

But time would fail were it told of how Burgess, the Greerite, did silently gaze upon the dwelling of his
ancestors as the buggy of Henderson, the Fordimite, did recede in the distance. So great was the joy of his
native Greer that he must needs speak in silence. Time would fail were it told of how a frisky chariot
did push its iron crank very near the wheezing wagon guided by the hand of Deck, until the son of
Hollingsworth could right easily see the anxious faces of the sons of McIlwaine as they urged their steed to a
breaking speed, even toward Florida. The face of Chong was seen to peer out through the curtains of the fleeing
vehicle. Right fiercely did these chariots race crank and crank for the leading place, even until darkness covered the scene
and the hurrying rattles died away.

As these humble subjects of Helper did slip away into the Southern nightland, they drew nigh unto the kingdom of
Bull Dogs, even those who abide in the city of Athens. All went well until bold and boisterous men did
seek to destroy these Wildcats by casting pellets of lead dangerously close to the wagons of tin. Right mightily did
the knees of Hayden, son of Hollingsworth, smite the walls of the chariot, causing the vehicle to stop. But even
in time did these bold bad men of Athens, seeing the fear of the travelers, depart in peace, permitting these
Wildcats to seek the spacious firesides of their papas unharmed.

Chief of chariots did depart unto the wilds of West Virginia. They did meet Wildcats, not of Jaybirdsville, and succeeded
in making a non-stop trip to their papas in the towns of West Virginia. Even in these many manners and
many others did the Wildcats seek and find Christmas at home.Fraternity at its second annual convocation. The sessions were held
at 1844 N. Sixteenth St., the home of Epsilon Alpha Chapter. The convention was well attended and much business was
transacted. The most important was the acceptance of a petition for membership into the fraternity by the Tillicum Club of
the University of California, and Phi Sigma Phi, a local fraternity at Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. Appleby was appointed a
member of the executive committee. The organization at the University of California has been established for 13 years, and considering
the large number of national fraternities already on the campus, it ranks among the highest, having representatives in practically all
the activities of the university. Phi Sigma Phi has been organized for about four years and is in good standing
compared to the other fraternities and local clubs at Miami.

Mrs. A. C. DeVane has been very ill, but has now recovered sufficiently to be able to be moved to
Charlotte where she will receive further treatment.

GLEE CLUB ENJOYS HIGH TIME
(Continued from page 1)

out en masse for the concert, but they could not be so vociferous in their applause as the Davidson student
body was in its appreciation of the Converse Glee Club. After an all-day run Friday, the Davidson musicians landed in
Rome, Ga., barely in time to get ready and meet their audience at Shorter College. The concert would have been
minus the performers altogether, but for the successful efforts of Harlee Branch, the advance manager, in getting the station master
in Atlanta to realize the importance of the Davidson College Glee Club and hold the train nearly an hour so
that they could make the connection. After the concert, a reception was given for the Glee Club, in which “Pee-wee”
McCravey starred by getting lost in the flames of “fire” which swept around him and hid him from view.

Saturday found the Glee Club in Atlanta, where the climax of the trip was to be staged. At noon, a
luncheon, sponsored by the Atlanta Davidson alumni, was given for the club at the Atlanta Biltmore Hotel. Needless to say,
it was enjoyed by those partaking thereof. During the afternoon, the songsters were taken for a ride out to Stone
Mountain to see the sculptural work which is being done there on the Confederate Memorial. At Agnes Scott College, the
Glee Club put on an exceptionally good performance Saturday night and was well received by a large audience. An Atlanta
paper, in speaking of the concert, says: “From the opening until the final numbers, the audience was highly entertained by
the quality of the performance. ... Two black-faced comedians, rendering ‘colored music,’ received much applause. All numbers were well received.”

Sunday was spent in Atlanta. One quartet from the Glee Club sang Sunday morning at the West End Presbyterian Church,
and again that night at the First Presbyterian Church. John McCrae played a violin solo at the Decatur Presbyterian Church,
Sunday morning. Monday, Piggy Martin rounded up his musicians and started on the homeward journey. The next stop was Greenville,
S. C. After the performance Monday night in Greenville high school, Tom Barr, a member of the club, and his
sister, gave a reception for the Glee Club members, which was another enjoyable social feature of the trip. Tuesday found
the Wildcat songsters in the familiar territory of Charlotte, where the last concert of the tour was given in the
Central high school before a rather small audience. After this final performance, the tired performers wended their weary way back
to Davidson.

Wildcat Basket Five To Have Three Good Trips
Coach Younger to Take Team on Long Jaunt Into Virginia

Twenty-three games remain on the Wildcat basketball schedule, offering ample opportunity for the Davidson basketeers to demonstrate their ability, according
to a recent announcement from Manager R. W. Oeland. Eight games on the local court and four more in Charlotte
will make it possible for students to witness the Red and Black cagemen in action unusually often. The 1925 schedule,
said to be the most strenuous ever undertaken at Davidson, will carry the team on two extensive trips: one through
North Carolina, and the other into Virginia. Games with Duke University and Wake Forest appear on the schedule three times
each, while Georgia Tech, Washington and Lee, V. P. I., Carolina, Stetson University, Charlotte “Y,” Roanoke College, Hampden-Sidney, Guilford, Elon,
and Concord “Y” are also included on the list. The game with Georgia Tech in Charlotte on February 17th will
prove especially attractive in view of the fact that it will mark the first athletic contest between the two colleges
in the past two years. Davidson followers and basketball fans throughout the state are highly pleased over the prospect of
Davidson tying up with Washington and Lee and V. P. I. again. The game with Duke University will mark the
first athletic engagement between Davidson and the newly named institution. With the squad fast rounding into top-notch condition, and such
an extraordinary schedule of games arranged, indications are that Davidson is entering on a new era of basketball.

MEN LINE UP FOR WORK IMMEDIATELY ON RETURN

Only two groups went out to the rural Sunday Schools last Sunday. The Shearer Chapel Sunday School was conducted by
L. B. Gibbs, H. C. Bridgers, John Crinkley, L. A. McCutchen, Archie Ray, and N. G. Patterson. These men took
charge of both the Sunday School and church services there. After the classes were over, N. G. Patterson talked on
Prayer, the topic for this week. L. B. Gibbs spoke at the church service following Sunday School. Sunday night, the
Christian Endeavor Society and the Ladies’ Training class met jointly. Increased interest was shown by the large number present. The
other group held services at the Mill Chapel. F. T. Franklin, W. W. Purdy, and M. C. Yeargan were the
leaders there. Forty-five people were present, this being a large increase over the usual number.

POST-HOLIDAY ENROLLMENT SHOWS FEW WITHDRAWALS

Beginning with Friday, January 1st, Davidson students began to return from the Christmas holidays. Although the reports from registration are
not complete, they are very favorable. Not a single man has definitely left school, in spite of the fact that
about 25 men have failed to enroll so far. By Saturday evening, a total of 456 students had registered with
Mr. Jackson. Twenty-seven more men came in over the weekend and by Monday evening, 573 men were enrolled. Mr. Jackson
reported that there might be some after the mid-year examinations.

RED AND BLACK CAGEMEN
(Continued from page 1)

Anderson (14) - Yates (6) Center
Boggs (C) - Schenck (1) Right guard
McConnell (3) - Smith (5) Left guard
Substitutions—For Davidson: Laird (1) for Staley; Hewlett (2) for McConnell. For Charlotte “Y”: Sutterfield (3) for Yates; Milstead for Mallory.
Several repetitions. Referee: Hengeveld (Davidson); Umpire: Rawson (Georgia).

CARD OF THANKS

The boys who stayed over for the holidays wish to extend their appreciation and thanks to the people of Davidson
who so kindly and entertainingly helped them to pass the time.

LOST

One Soph Math book, “An Introduction to the Calculus.” Finder please return to R. E. Faucett.

You don’t need trig. to know that nine dollars from fourteen leaves just the price of—Oh well, you spend it
but not on shoes. Because John Ward’s nine dollar oxfords beat any fourteen dollar ones you ever saw. On Display
By Mr. A. M. Shimmon at Honor Store January 13, 14

INCORPORATED — AAG, U.S. PAT. OFF.
Stores in New York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia
Address for Mail Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City

Hart Schaffner & Marx
Young Men Tell Us We've Scored a Bullseye

There’s just the right swing of youthfulness in these new clothes of ours. They say the styles are flawless, there’s
vigor, life, ZIP in them.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men
