4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 5, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH................. Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURKE............................ Business Manager

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH................................. Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON.............................. Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES...................................... Assistant Editor
W. E. MILTON.................................. Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER................................. Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE................................... Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH................ Associate Editor
GARNETT McMILLAN..................... Humorous Editor
J. W. DICKEY.................................. Alumni Editor
F. K. BELL....................................... Exchange Editor

Business Staff
H. D. BURKE................................... Business Manager
W. H. LYNCH................................. Assistant Business Manager
H. Y. ALEXANDER......................... Circulation Manager
E. D. WITHERSPOON.................... Subscription Manager
J. M. GARRISON............................ Assistant Subscription Manager
C. W. WILLIAMS............................ Solicitor
V. S. BROYLES............................... Solicitor
E. L. DOUGLASS............................ Assistant Solicitor
JULIAN LAKE................................. Assistant Solicitor

Reporters’ Club
G. M. EDDINGTON, Pres.
V. S. BROYLES, Vice-Pres.
C. C. MURCHISON, Sec.-Treas.
R. H. McILWAINE
W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
E. MOORE
F. K. BELL
J. K. REGEN
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
J. B. THOMPSON
W. T. COVINGTON
J. B. WEBB
W. T. DAVIS
J. G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
J. B. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

DAVIDSON SPIRIT

There is something fundamentally wrong with the spirit of the student body here at Davidson. The purpose of this editorial will be to explain why the present spirit that is shown is deficient in sportsmanship and plain common sense.

There have been enough editorials written about the subject of Davidson spirit to fill a library shelf. Some of them have been crisp and clear, with some originality apparent, but the majority have been the familiar, cut-and-dried, wishy-washy, rah-rah type of articles that the average student throws away before reading half of them.

The Freshmen do not seem to have the true college spirit that prompts one to attend pep meetings and yell for the team on the field no matter whether it is winning or losing. The upper-classmen are content to stand idly by and watch the Freshmen make a show at shouting loud in the meetings while they do little themselves. There is not that rivalry between the four classes on the campus which makes for the best in college spirit and true sportsmanship.

What conditions on the hill cause this? Is there any force that tends to discourage a man from supporting his own classmates? A Freshman attended the basketball game the other night. He was loyal enough to his class and had enough Davidson spirit to cheer for his team even when the Sophs were getting further in the lead every minute. An upperclassman immediately jumped up and wanted to know why this Freshman dared to commit such an outrageous crime as that of cheering for his team. All unconcerned, he told the questioner that he was glad to root for his team and that he didn’t care if he got a yellow cap for it. He got it.

Last Friday night the writer strolled up toward Shearer Hall for the pep meeting before the State game. He went in the hall expecting to join in with the lusty cheers and shouts of six hundred boys but instead, he saw the Freshman class lined up on the benches with two upperclassmen standing over them, checking them off as if they were a pen of livestock going to market. A handful of old men were sitting on the benches in the back, waiting for someone to start the music, someone to press the switch and tell them it was time to holler for Davidson.

How can anyone expect genuine, spontaneous, and loyal support of the college with such mechanical methods of enforcing and maintaining a proper respect for the traditions of the college and a love for its name and concern for its welfare? Have hired soldiers ever shown a daring and fearlessness in battle comparable to that of the patriot fighting for his homeland? Will a college student yell and cheer for his alma mater when he is promptly squelched should he dare to raise his voice in admiration for the prowess of his classmates? Can a man be urged to show the proper spirit at one time and to act subservient to authority at another?

We have nothing against the Court of Control which regulates the actions of the Freshman class. It is rather against the antiquated, unsportsmanlike attitude which the upperclassmen take against the first-year men. We believe that if a Freshman is loyal enough to come out and cheer for his team, that not only ought he to be allowed to root for his team, but that a few of the slackers among the three upper classes might well take lessons under him.

If the Freshman class has to be made to attend a pep meeting, then there is something radically wrong, somewhere. We believe part of it is due to the fact that these new men on Davidson campus are just like any other 100 percent, red-blooded young Americans in that they don’t want to be made to cheer one time and to be quieted down at another time when they feel the urge for a display of excitement and true college spirit.

WHAT COLLEGE OFFERS

The following paragraph contains the words of William Dewitt Hyde who was one time president of Bowdoin College. It seems to us that it is about as clear and explicit a statement of the nature of a college education as we have ever read:

“To be at home in all lands and all ages; to count Nature a familiar acquaintance, and Art an intimate friend; to gain a standard for the appreciation of other men’s work and the criticism of your own; to carry the key of the world’s library in your pocket, and feel its resources behind you in whatever task you undertake; to make hosts of friends among the men of your own age who are to be leaders in all walks of life; to lose yourself in generous enthusiasms and co-operate with others for common ends; to learn manners from students who are gentlemen, and form character under professors who are Christians—this is the offer of the college for the best four years of your life.”

There are some who say that the four precious years spent in college, right in the very prime of manhood, are too valuable to be spent in a cloistered retreat, learning dry rules and forgotten lore that will never be used in the struggles of life. Dr. Hyde has shown the opposite side. He views college as one big opportunity, a field of preparation where each man fits himself for the highest duties of citizenship. To him, a college education is the key with which we can unlock the treasures of the ages and keep them as our own.

To some, probably the time spent in college will not bring them back in dollars and cents the investment expended. But the future enjoyment that they will gain by the broadening of the mind and the enriching of the intellect will far more than repay for all the time and effort spent in securing the education.

THE SESQUI-CENTENNIAL

All patriotic Philadelphians and the folks of that neighborhood are all worked up about the 150th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration of Independence which will be celebrated next July the fourth. A proper setting will be provided by the five months’ celebration which will give the proper atmosphere for the remembrance of that gallant act of our forefathers.

The full name of this will be the Sesqui-Centennial International Exposition and it will be on the order of the world fairs that have been held at various cities in the last hundred years or so. Since the Panama-Pacific Exposition in San Francisco, great strides have been made in learning and discovery and the sesqui-centennial will include them.all. It will bring together millions of people from all over the earth to view the greatness of the United States. It will serve as a porthole through which the progress of humanity can be observed. It will be a liberal education to any Davidson student who can beg, borrow, or secure the necessary impedimenta to take a whole holiday at this big show and take in everything offered to sightseers.

A campaign will be put on in a few days to start student thought in the direction of the World Court question, which will come up before the Senate on the 17th of December. It is hoped by the Y.M.C.A. that student thought can be crystallized toward this very important topic of world affairs.

Open Forum
ARE WE THINKERS?

The statement was made by a prominent educator during the Student Conference held at Duke University last week that from his own observations, only one student of every twelve with whom he came in contact was a thinker—real seekers after knowledge beyond the bounds of the daily assignments made in the classrooms. This speaker, who comes from a representative Southern university, in which he is in a position to observe and speak with a great degree of authenticity as regards that particular school, applied the same ratio to students in the colleges of the South. Some comment bearing out the speaker—and some which was more favorable to the students—was made. Whether or not the exact proportion is correct for our campus is a subject for discussion—but that a large percent of us do not read the daily newspapers outside of the sports page and the comics is a known fact, and it is the belief of the writer that the percentage is probably true of Davidson College when it comes to the consideration of national and international problems.

How many of us know the results of the Locarno Conference? Do we know the stand taken by President Coolidge, by Senator Borah, by the leaders of the Senate, on the World Court issue? How many know that the Senate will vote on America's entry into the World Court on December 17th? What are the Harding-Hughes-Coolidge Reservations in regard to America’s entry into the court?

Yes, we are busy students—every one of us—and our regular class assignments keep us over our heads in work. We have not the time to read the newspapers—much less to try to form opinions on national questions, to try to think some for ourselves. We have not the time—but not for that reason. We find time to write our girls, to read Life and College Humor—in fact, we make time to do such things—because we want to do them. But of course, we have not time to keep up even in a very incomplete way—with World Problems—because we will not take the time to do it. If that is an incorrect analysis, the writer will welcome a correction.

Now to the more immediate point in view. The college and university students of America are trying to arouse among their numbers men and women who will think, have opinions on world questions, and will express their opinions, and so make felt the Student Thought of America. Last weekend, over one hundred students from the colleges and universities of North Carolina met at Duke University in a student conference to consider the World Court question and to stimulate thought on their various campuses. At the same time, similar state conferences of college students were held throughout a large part of the United States. The delegates to the conference heard a great deal of discussion on the subject and left the conference with a determination to foster in every way possible student thought on this and other questions.

The World Court issue is the big issue before America today—it is to be voted on by the Senate in the immediate future—we are college students—many of us have already reached the age of voters, and all of us are within a few years of that age—we are being called on to express ourselves, and that is what we all crave. But to express ourselves, we must have at least a rudimentary knowledge of the questions to be considered. Are we thinkers beyond the bounds of our own campus? Are we preparing for active citizenship in America and the World? Then let us keep up with our national problems—and THINK.

—'26.

Minor Chords

I saw them out driving
An automobile,
And what he was holding
Wasn't the wheel.

I saw them out boating,
Jim and Lenore,
And what he was hugging
Wasn't the shore.

I saw them out fishing,
Or that’s how it looked,
But it wasn’t a fish
That the young lady hooked.

Later they were out walking,
I saw them pass,
And what he was pushing
Wasn’t propelled by gas.

—Ex.

We wonder how anyone could stoop so low as to write those naughty words on the tank.

The height of extravagance as seen by one person on the campus is washing socks with Woodbury's Facial Soap.

“The drinks are on me,” said Skit as he turned over a milkshake on his new Oxford bags.

FAMOUS WOODS
pile. Cord

“Three weeks,” said the judge.
“I prefer ‘Six Days’ by the same author, your Honor.”

“That bird is sure dumb.”
“How come?”
“I told him it was a wet party, so he brought his slicker along.”

If mud is a beautifier, Davidson students should enter the Manly Beauty contest next year at Atlantic City.

Flapperology: as we show, so shall they peep.

The Keyhole wants to know what has become of Mah Jong, crossword puzzles, tight trousers, garters, banana songs, free drinks, and paddles.

To remember your girl’s birthday is a mark of courtesy, but not to remember which one it is a mark of tact.

Sheik says, “As soon as the girl suggests staying home and talking instead of going to the show, you know you got her going.”

A certain Freshman told this one on John Bernhardt: John went to Charlotte and, intending to stay all night, registered at the Charlotte Hotel. He was assigned to the sixteenth floor. He ran all the way up the stairs and when he arrived at his room, panting, he was asked why he didn’t take the elevator. He replied, “Well, I did intend to do that, but I missed it.”

The latest in effeminacy has taken place among the students of Davidson; one bashful young member walked home from an automobile ride the other night.

A snappy young Junior, Bordeaux,
While taking a walk stumped his teaux.
He said, “Oh, my!”
And started to cry,
And hobbled back home in the sneaux.

Bo McMillan says his idea of a star salesman is one who could make money selling buggy-whips in Detroit.

—KABLE.

MINOR CHORDS — IDEALISM

True to me, kind to me, never deceiving,
Cheering me, helping me, ever believing;
Sad for me, glad for me, never apart,
Dear to me, near to me—Pal o’ my heart;
Clean-hearted, whole-hearted all the way thru,
Uplifting and tender, wonderful you!
Fair to me, square to me, life’s dearest part,
Best to me, blest to me—Pal o’ my heart.

—Anonymous.

REALISM

Harsh to me, cruel to me, ever forgetting,
Railing me, failing me, endlessly fretting;
True to another, but false to thine own,
Doubting me, leaving me, saddened alone;
Square to me never, unfair in thy deeds,
Far from me ever, neglecting my needs;
Arrogant, haughty, and full of conceit:
Languishing, swooning, I fall at thy feet.

—H. L. S.

The track team showed a good deal of form in the State meet Saturday, but they were outclassed by the Techmen. The showing of Clement Penn was especially good, though, and he stuck right up under the leader all the way. The others will no doubt be in their full stride by the middle of the season.

Hallowe’en passed by and the campus still retained its fair looks that had been bestowed by nature. It speaks well for the fellows when they listen to a request not to bring shame to the visitors on the campus. Hats off to us boys.