THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 19, 1925

Oh well, there is so much to be said about that game last Saturday that it is almost useless to
continue lauding the merits of the Davidson team. Davidson gained more ground against Carolina in that game than against any
team that the Wildcats have played this season—without a single exception. How does that sound for a team that is
considered the best and strongest team in the state? Carolina declared state champions upon the basis of scores, but upon
the basis of actual playing and ground gained the Wildcats get the honors.

For prompt and satisfactory service visit Paul Richardson’s Barber Shop 202 S. Church St.

NEUMONIA
Always call a physician. Until his arrival use “emergency” treatment with Vicks. This does not interfere with anything he may
prescribe.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

RALPH’S
MY CUSTOMERS ARE MY ADVERTISERS
Johnston’s Barber Shop
Just beyond the Bank

Benefit as well as pleasure. Exercise for the teeth, healthful and a spur to digestion. A long-lasting refreshment, soothing to
nerves and stomach. The Great American Sweetmeat, untouched.

New York Cafe
BEST EATS IN TOWN
Fresh, Clean, Sanitary
Davidson, N. C.

FELLOWS!!!
We have several new U-Push’Em Fords at your disposal. Prices reasonable. See us at any time.
Henderson Filling Station
Davidson, N. C.

ON THE JOB
Wifey—"Didn't I hear the clock strike two as you came in last night?”
Hubby (a quick thinker)—"You did, my dear. It started to strike eleven and I stopped it so that it wouldn't
wake you up."

IN CHARLOTTE
It's easy enough to be cheerful when nothing in life you lack, but the jay-walker worth while is the one
who can smile when the traffic-cop sends him back.

We would like to suggest that a heavy coat of stucco be placed on the outside of the water-tank to
keep the poster makers from practicing their trade at night.

Droopy Hudgins, All-Defective Setback, has picked below his All-Off 1928 Team. Here it is:
Position Player Team
1st Base Ure Outte from Mt. Mourne Braves
Right Tickle Clipping from Behind
Stationary Guard Tan Bars from Ft. Leavenworth
Pitcher Tin R. Glass from Woolworth’s
Onward March from Schubert
Mixed Singles U. N. Me from Me N. U.

Here lies the body of Jim Kuykendall; while slave-driving freshman he met his fall.

Just before the special train pulled into Winston-Salem last Saturday, Abe Lincoln went through the coaches and informed us that
if anyone took a deep breath while he was in the twin city that he would begin spitting tobacco juice.

Ogden—"Changed your bed-linen yet, fresh?”
Fresh—"Heck no; ‘tain’t worn out yet.”

It is impossible to kiss a girl unexpectedly; the next best thing to do is to kiss her sooner than
she thought you would.

Apples may keep the doctor away for a while, but kiddo, onions will keep everybody away all the time.

“Mother, what is that tramp doing with that piece of wrapping paper?”
“Hush, darling; that is a college graduate with his diploma.”

These red-hot mammas that they talk about nowadays didn't get that way over the cook stove.

“Let me tell you about that dream I had last night.”
“Don’t worry; I saw you with her.”

“Seen Al?”
“Al who?”
“Alcohol.”
“No, but kerosene him last week, and he hasn’t benzine since.”

“Here are your collars and ties, Mr. Deck. Can I show you anything else—how about some night clothes?”
Deck—“Naw, I reckon not. Being as I’m not one of those society fellows I go to bed when night comes.”

Week-ends may come and week-ends may go, but classes go on forever.

Some fellows who used to drink like a fish drink what the fish drinks now.

An optimist is a fellow with hay fever who is thankful that he is not an elephant.

“Niggah, I’se suah sorry fo’ you,” said a negro pugilist to his opponent as they squared off. “I was born
with boxing gloves on.”
“Mebbe you wuz," retorted his challenger, “and ah reckon youse gwine to die de same way.”

A hick town is a place where there's no place to go that you shouldn't.

Bellhop—"Call for Mr. O’Brien; call for Mr. O’Brien.”
Ikey Goldenberger—"Vat iss the initial, please?”

“Like music?”
Fresh Fair One—"Yes indeed.”
Fresh—"Then listen to this band around my hat.”

Prof—"Where is Mr. Bottom today?”
Stude—"Mr. Bottom has dropped out.”

BANDIT FARNSWORTH’S LATEST
Sheriff—"Ma'm, can we hang this flea-bitten horse-thief to one of your apple trees?”
Lady—"Sir,I'll have you to know that I'm a married woman, and I cannot have men hanging around the house.”

HE EVIDENTLY DIDN'T HURRY

Jim Clardy came home from Wyoming Tuesday on the train where he had been all summer. (Social item in Colo,
paper.)

“That girl is a corker.”
“Who is she?”
“Just one of the workers down at the bottling plant.”

“Johnny, did you give your penny to the Sunday School teacher?”
“No’m, I lost it.”
“What! Do you realize that this makes three straight Sundays that you have lost the pennies I have given you?”
“Yes’m, but if I keep up I will win ’em back. That kind of luck can’t last forever.”

“I think you are the handsomest man on this campus!”
Ronald Wilson—“Yes, dear, and I adore you for being such a sweet truthful girl.”

THOSE CHAIN GANG BLUES

Rise, Buddies, rise, spit on the rock,
It’s not quite day but it’s o'clock,
Let me hear the rattle of your chain,
It looks mighty cloudy, but it ain’t gonna rain,
So rise buddies, rise.
I hate to do it but I got it to do,
I don't want you but the rock crushers do,
So rise buddies, rise.

FAMOUS BUCKS

Cross seat oe eye Sears and Roe_-- Rose
“Oh, Ronald, I'm just crazy about you.”

COLLEGE EDITORS VOTE (Continued from page 1)

...ging that the publications be allowed to express within their columns the true thoughts and ideals held by the mass
of students that make up the life of the institution. Forty delegates attended the convention and took part in the
discussions. The convention opened on Thursday evening, November 12th, at which time W. N. Keener, Editor of the Durham Herald,
spoke to the editors. He discussed the changes that had taken place in the type and form of college periodicals
during the past decade, and urged more college students to enter the field of journalism within the bounds of North
Carolina. Following his talk, he answered numerous inquiries propounded by members of his audience on questions of interest to those
aspiring to follow the profession of journalism.

On Friday, the morning session was featured by an address of welcome by J. H. Lineberger, of Carolina, and a
response by Miss Ruth Efird, of Salem College. Reports as to conditions of the various publications were heard, and remedies
suggested. On Friday afternoon, the delegates attended a special class on journalism, conducted by Professor Johnson, of the University faculty.
The crowning social event of the convention was the delightful banquet served at the Carolina Inn on Friday evening. J.
M. Saunders, former president of the association, acted as toastmaster; and brief talks were made by several of the delegates.

On Saturday morning, the delegates voted on the place for the next convention. Invitations were extended by Salem College, Duke
University, and Guilford College. The latter invitation was accepted. The convention closed in time for the delegates to attend the
Davidson-Carolina football classic, as guests of the University’s athletic association.

The following are delegates who attended the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association meeting: Salem College, Ruth Efird, Elizabeth Hastings, Dorothy
Siewers, Eloise Willis; Meredith College, Crys Davis, Mary Crawford, Geneva Benthall, Elaine Goode, Blanche Stokes, Katie Dail, Martha Blannett, Nancy
Little; Greensboro College, Augusta Sample, Carolyn Glascock, Eleanor Vanneman, Julia Livermon; Lenoir-Rhyne College, E. M. Mauney; Queens College, Katherine Conley,
Ha Hoover, Julia Boone, Agnes Efird; Davidson College, Frederick W. Smith, Wood Brown, Harlee Branch, Jr., Earnest Milton, R. S.
Wilson, L. D. Wharton, Jr., Harold D. Burke; Guilford College, E. P. Brown, Joseph Cox, Murray White; Duke University, Al
Young; Elon College, Henry Peel; N. C. State College, E. G. Moore, F. K. Fogleman, J. M. Potter; University of
North Carolina, J. H. Lineberger, W. T. Couch, H. N. Parker, A. C. Summerville, Harold Seburn.

Speaking of the great open spaces, how would you like to see Notre Dame play the All-Continentals?

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Surprising The Number Of Davidsonians Who Procure Their Footwear At Gilmer-Moore’s Charlotte

MODERNLY EQUIPPED
205 West Trade Street (upstairs)

“FRED’S” RECREATION HALL
BILLIARDS
Meet your friends here and make this your club when in Charlotte
MORALLY CONDUCTED

Drugs, Medicines, TOILET ARTICLES
DAVIDSON, WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Prescriptions a Specialty
Stationery Candies KODAKS

YOU NEED
Shaving Cream Soap Talcum Tooth Paste
“It’s yours, why not patronize it?”
We have a complete line of toilet articles
See us about the special Palmolive offer
The Student’s Store
