THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

Students to Renew the ‘Junior Speaking Hangchow College Fund in an Early Campaign

College President Praises the Work of Davidson Representative in Orient

COX ON FACULTY

Great Influence on Morals of Country Result of Work of the College

The only distinctive piece of foreign work which the Davidson student body as a whole carries on is furnishing annually the support of Warren Cox, of the class of ’23. Cox is Professor of Chemistry in Hangchow Christian College, Hangchow, China. Reports from the president of that college, Dr. Fitch, who is now in the U.S., assure Davidsonians of the fact that Cox is carrying to Hangchow College the real Davidson Wildcat spirit. The following information concerning Hangchow College will be of interest to all Davidsonians:

Hangchow College is chartered by the District of Columbia under a board of trustees representing equally the foreign mission boards of the two great Presbyterian churches of the United States. It furnishes a regular arts course, majoring in education. The college is located in the suburbs of Hangchow, the capital of the province of Chekiang, a province with a population equal to about one-fifth of the population of the United States. The city of Hangchow is the most famous in all China for its beauty of location. It has also been a center of education and of art. About two hundred men have come from this institution as full college graduates, of whom about sixty have gone into the ministry, about seventy-five into business, about thirty-five into the Y.M.C.A. and other religious organizations as secretaries, and the remainder have become engineers, physicians, literary workers, etc.

At present, there is a student body of two hundred and fifty-six young men, a foreign staff of sixteen, and a Chinese staff of about twenty men. An educational commission which recently went to China, and which represented various mission boards, made a careful survey of the entire educational situation and recommended that Hangchow College be enlarged so as to have a teaching and administrative staff of twenty-four foreigners and thirty-nine Chinese, with a student body of five hundred. This result would secure maximum efficiency as regards pedagogical work, economy of administration, and the highest results as regards the development of personality and Christian leadership.

Last year the Davidson student body pledged over a thousand dollars for this great work. About $250.00 of this has not been paid. Warren Cox’s letter in this issue of The Davidsonian indicates just what the student body is doing, showing what $2.00 a man can do.

MANAGERS OF TRACK BUILD GOOD SURFACE

Due to the earnest efforts of Jim Patton and his cohorts, the track is now in the best condition that it has been so far this year. Everyone who witnessed the track meet, held on last Friday, could readily see that the track managers have not been loafing on the job and if Davidson does not put out the best track team in the state, it will not be because the track is not in good condition. Manager Jim Patton says that the track is in as good condition as could be expected but that in a few days he expects to have the whole thing disced and rolled. There have been several bad places in the track that have been very difficult to patch up and put in good shape but by a great deal of work on the part of the manager and assistant managers, it has been put in pretty good shape. The entire track will not be worked over again however until after the High School meet, which Coach Tilsez is counting on staging very soon.

Over at Wake Forest they have such an abundance of pitchers that Stamey says he is going to work behind the plate. They have seven letter men back, Armstrong (captain) and Greason alone returning to the infield.

Success Assured By Landscaping

Other thoughts than mere thoughts of love are indulged in when the season of Spring Fever strikes upon the world in and around Davidson. With a longing for a real background in which the Junior Speaking and week-end parties can be made successful, the authorities come forth with plans for sufficient landscape gardening to clothe the campus in a soft and yielding carpet of green. Steps are taken whereby further limited anti-Freshman territory may be set aside and transplanted into a haven for upperclassmen footsteps ready to yield to the number elevens of small and large men of the three upper classes.

As a medium toward the attainment of this end, the first of last week saw several bags—yellow bags—demurely reposing in sublime content over the canopy of grass spread across the Hill. These bags, harmless in themselves, would not allow the approach of anyone unfamiliar with them or their odors. Concentrated fertilizers reposed throughout the campus in one hundred pound quantities. Discontent with the position in such a small area covered with the plant’s nourishment, several were the men in overalls who donned huge baskets to play joyfully in the oppressive fish and bone meal. Having donned the accoutrements to their play, these men proceeded in a manner unforeseen, except for the past forty years, on the Davidson campus. With first one hand and then the other, even as the sower sows his seed, did the guano scatterers proceed to distribute the nitrates over the soil in an even and uniform colored layer of dust-like cover.

As a result of the diligence shown in the play, the grass has now begun to feel the effects of the sustenance gained from such sublime essence of concentrated plant foods. So extensive has been the landscape gardening on the campus proper that the blades of the bermuda have at least attained one more sixteenth of an inch in length and one more shade deeper in color.

But, in their wise discretion, the authorities did not stop with beautifying the campus itself. Behind the sustaining wall lining the East side of Main Street real landscaping has been taking place. There a plow, a harrow, and more sowers have been employed. Grass seed now offer a perfect feasting place for sparrows, wrens, and other types of the feathered kind. The borders of the campus will soon take on their first coat of verdancy. Steps have been taken to prevent the crop of grass which will surely result from such an outlay of labor from escaping, once it reaches anything like mature age. Suspended on posts three feet high and running around the plots so recently cultivated is a fence. A wire, forceful and restraining, has been placed there to prevent the sole of many a shoe from beating the bovine to the nest of green fodder. Such an addition is surely an adjunct to the campus, increasing its beauty and demanding, in the future, an increased respect for anything like physical improvements on outside conditions as they now appear around the Davidsonian hangouts.

Statesville Receives Davidson Deputation

Several Students Make Visit to Nearby City for Boys’ Conference

A deputation composed of a number of Davidson students went to StatesvilleLast week to assist in the boys’ work. This deputation was similar to others sent out recently under the direction of Mr. Leonard, the state Y. M. C. A. boys’ secretary for this district. Those who took part in the work Friday were L. L. Deck, A. N. Moffett, S. J. Bryant, and Clanton Williams. Talks were made to the high school students by Bryant and Williams, while Deck and Moffett spoke to the boys in the lower grades and also made a talk in one of the negro schools. The main feature of Saturday’s program was a hike in which about seventy of the Statesville boys took part. Among other events, there were several baseball games and a weiner roast. The meeting Sunday afternoon brought the work to a close. At that time, Harry Price spoke to a large group of boys on the living of a clean, Christian life. The Davidson quartet, composed of Piggy Martin, Tom Barr, Lowrance, and Malcolm Lockhart, furnished music for the meeting.

DEATH TAKES JACK MILLER
(Continued from page 1)

It was thought that if he could get home that soon, he would improve and be able to resume his duties in the classroom. Martin Teague, who is also from Laurens, had planned to make the trip with Jack, but when Jack learned that he was going home, he brightened up to the extent that the authorities and Jack thought he could make the trip alone, and this he did. As soon as he reached home, he was examined by Dr. J. H. Teague, and the latter, knowing that he had previously suffered from kidney trouble, recognized the cause of his illness immediately, and after Jack’s death, stated that had he remained at Davidson, he would not have recovered. He lived only 48 hours after he reached home. He was conscious until the last and was cognizant of his serious condition. The funeral was held at 4:30 o'clock Saturday afternoon from the home of his parents, the funeral service being conducted by his former pastor, who returned to Laurens to officiate at the funeral, and he was assisted by the present pastor of the Presbyterian Church and the pastor of the Methodist Church there. The pallbearers were seven of his friends in Laurens, and Wade H. Allison, his roommate at Davidson, who went to Laurens for the funeral. Mrs. C. M. Miller; two sisters, Eloise and Lydie; and two brothers, Martin and William, all of whom are younger than the deceased. The Davidson student body unanimously voted to send a floral offering Saturday morning, and the Junior class also showed their esteem for Jack by sending a similar token. Other expressions of sympathy were received by the family from friends of Jack in Davidson and from officials of the college. The many beautiful floral offerings and the many attendants at the funeral indicated the place of honor and respect that he occupied in the hearts of the Laurens people. Jack is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Miller; two sisters, Eloise and Lydie; and two brothers, Martin and William, all of whom are younger than the deceased.

R. O. T. C. News
R. O. T. C. Rifle Team, firing from standing positions on Friday afternoon, February 27th. Out of a possible 25 points, the following scores were chalked up: Manuney, R. L., 23; Gudger, I. M., 21; Purcell, T. G., 21; Joyner, J. A., 20; Vick, L., 20; Clark, J. J., 20; Brown, E., 20; Ramsey, W. C. (Capt.), 10; Akers, J. M., 18; Batte, G. A., 18; Webb, J. B., 18; Talley, J. R., 18; Vaughn, J. A., 17; Miller, B. W., 16; Westbrook, D. O., 14. The match scores at kneeling position will be fired during the week ending March 7th. The sitting and prone positions are to be fired during the two weeks following March 7th, at the end of which time all scores will be aggregated and the men firing the ten highest scores will constitute the Davidson Rifle Team.

SONGBIRDS FROM QUEENS
(Continued from page 1)

Smith, Turner, Gillis, and Pritchette delighted the audience with vocal solos, and Miss Elfreda Sharpe rendered four classical numbers on the violin with excellent technique and expression. A duet from Madam Butterfly, by Misses Holmes and Turner, and a quartet by Misses Holmes, Smith, Klutz, and Pritchette deserve mention. The entire program was one of worth and merit and is considered the best given here this year by a girl's college glee club. The Queens Club has given concerts here for the past several years, but this one is an improvement on all previous performances. The personnel of the club arrived in Davidson Friday afternoon and returned to Charlotte Saturday morning, leaving here at 7:00 o'clock. After the entertainment, the girls themselves entertained for a couple of hours at the various fraternity halls.

Library News
Among the books which have recently been added to the library are:

Valley Waters, by Charles D. Stewart.
“The story itself is an arresting one, concerning the search for the home and mother of a shell-shocked American soldier who has come back to life as it were with his memory a blank. The scene is laid principally in Ohio, in and around the Muskingum Valley.”

The Green Mirror, by Hugh Walpole.
“The Green Mirror has not one touch of aniline in all its warm colors, rich presences, and faithful portraiture. It is a fine novel, grappling bravely with the great ironies of mother-love.”

Stacey, by Alexander Black.
“For the great chance in life, Stacey looks about him with high-spirited expectation. He is full of curiosities, full of theories. He has a lively sense of romance but a serious intention to be practical. Consigned to the parlor floor bedroom, he finds romance upstairs and drama in the basement. Outside, a painted world in which liberty and loneliness can be partners. Back home means the Middle West. The job and the distractions mean New York. In the basement, he finds the drama of the girl who has turned from the streets and the man—a stalwart sinner—who has put the width of the continent between him and the scene of his fall. Above stairs, he meets the girl who makes his bed, and more audacious femininity to whose wiles he succumbs. Outside, in the painted world, he finds one job after another; as a promoter of business in a hair-restorer enterprise; as a handyman in a rich woman's household; and then comes his ironic final plunge—the toss of the dice for success, that closes Mr. Black's frank and vivid novel.”

EAT AT THE ASTOR
LUNCH SERVICE - THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

PREPARE!
4:00 o'clock. Sunday afternoon the hour in America. WHY?
McAlister Carson, Manager
Insurance Department Trust Company
Charlotte, N. C.

HATS - HABERDASHERY - SHOES
March 18 and 19
Bill Hollenbeck, Rep.
At Lobby of West
Wednesday and Thursday
Fifth Avenue, at 46th St.
NEW YORK