THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 2, 1925

Best Place to Eat
Good Orchestra
College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

"COLLEGE!" That's what the new Society Brand Boulevard says to you. College clothes are not like other clothes. College men
wear what they like and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it, so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand
makes clothes for college men. That’s why they make the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner and Urner Oxfords
Manhattan Shirts

ATHLETICS THIS AND NEXT WEEK

The Varsity Track Team will stage their first home meet of the season with the Wofford track team Saturday afternoon
on Richardson Field. According to reports, Wofford has one of the best teams in the history of the school, and
the Wildcats are working hard to make a good showing against the visitors. Coach Tilson is much encouraged by the
good showing the team made at V. P. I. Although losing the meet, they took seven first places out of
14, and he expects his charges to hit their best stride against the Terriers. The team will be somewhat handicapped
by the loss of the services of Red Anderson, who has the mumps. Anderson won the high hurdles at Blacksburg
and was one of the high scorers. It is hoped that Alf Brand will be able to take part in
the dashes by the time of the meet, so that the Wildcats will be in peak condition, excepting the loss
of Anderson. Wofford will probably send about a dozen men, all of whom are expected to make things interesting, and
it would not be surprising if some of the school records were lowered. The meet will begin promptly at 2:30.

Varsity Baseball
March 31—N. C. State here.
April 3—Elon here.
April 9—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 10—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.

Fresh Baseball
April 10—Rockingham Highs here.
April 11—Duke Fresh here.

Varsity Track
April 4—Wofford here.
April 11—South Carolina at Columbia.

The Fresh and Varsity baseball and track outfits took just the opposite start in their initial encounters, for while the
Varsity fell by two disastrous scores, the Yearlings won both of their clashes. However, there is quite a bit of
difference in the opposition that the two squads had to meet on the track and also on the baseball diamonds.

It looks like that Davidson stock is tumbling more and more on the diamond. Nothing extra to start with, then
two defeats by the Cadets, then Frank Alford off the team with a case of mumps, and to climax it
all, Captain Teddy Covington injured (temporarily) Monday afternoon.

PROF. WACHTER GIVES BASKETBALL BANQUET

The basketball squad was entertained by Professor Wachter at a banquet last Tuesday night at the Charlotte Chamber of Commerce.
All members of the team who made the trips were present. Besides the team and Professor Wachter, there were present
Dr. J. M. Douglas, of the Athletic Association; C. M. S. McIlwaine, editor of The Davidsonian, and Coaches Monk Younger,
Tex Tilson, and Rawson. The menu was a little out of the ordinary, having broiled tenderloin steak as the pièce
de résistance.

Following the banquet, there was an informal discussion as to the best means of promoting athletics, maintaining the standards of
the past, and pushing forward greater accomplishments in the future. Professor Wachter said, “The mental gymnast uses his muscles to
serve his brain, while the athlete uses his brain to serve his muscle. We are coming more and more to
realize,” he said, “that scholars need to keep their muscles in trim and their bodies in prime condition, and also,
what is equally important, athletes must train their brains to be truly successful. Davidson is a great training camp, and
every man in the student body should keep himself fit in every way, and consecrate all that he has and
is to Davidson. Their slogan should be, ‘The best that we've got for Davidson.’”

But the way a Wildcat team finishes the season can never be judged by the initial game. For instance, last
fall the gridiron squad beat Elon by the slimmest score in the history of football between the two schools. Yet
what a finish on Thanksgiving Day!

The return of the track team from Blacksburg brings a little tale about one of its young stars. It seems
that Bluefield, W. Va., getting wind of the great work of its son, Harry Goodykoontz, planned to give him the
usual reception that heroes are wont to receive. Looking around over the town, they could find nothing more appropriate than
the high school that he and Feet had attended. However, there was some missing link in their plans, or anyway,
when Goodykoontz reached the old home town, the school had already vanished in smoke and flames and his reception was
called off.

One man made a favorable start when Lefty Oden fanned the first batter to face him in a varsity game.
Anyway, Goody sure had a big day as he took first place in the two-twenty and four-forty and second in
the hundred. Not so bad.For the first varsity meet he had entered (the State Olympic last year was open to
freshmen). Miss Marian Daniels, a student at Agnes Scott College and the sister of Frank Daniels, a Freshman, is spending
the spring holidays at the home of Mrs. J. M. McConnell. Everyone is hoping that the same conditions will prevail
this year, for the Davidson Yearlings have some material that will go good in that or any other meet. John
Currie in the dashes, McMillan and Nesbit in the middle distances, and Melton and McGeachy in the field events would
make a very valuable addition.

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite

The loss of Red Anderson will strike the track squad pretty hard. He made his letter last spring but was
just beginning to hit his stride when the mumps hit him. Calhoun took a first place in the high jump
in his first meet, and Joe McConnell got a base on balls his first trip to the plate. Last year
Joe slammed out a homer against the State Freshmen. Here’s to one against the State Varsity.

Although the start on the diamond was pretty weak, we are right here to say that when the final game
is chalked up with the Duke nine, there will be quite a different class of ball players from what appeared
Friday. Coach Younger has the habit of getting something out of nothing, of changing gloom to sunshine. And he does
it in such a quiet and unassuming manner that one doesn’t know it has been done until “all of a
sudden” a big change has come over his teams.

On last Thursday afternoon, the Davidson Fresh baseball team administered an overwhelming defeat to Denver. The final score was 11
to 0, and the outcome was never in doubt from the start. Although clearly outplayed in every department of the
game, the Denver boys fought all through the game and their courage and pep never faltered. The game was marred
by costly fumbles and imperfect plays that would not be made later in the season. This was the first game
for the Freshmen, and they showed up rather well at this stage of the season. However, if the Fresh expect
to cop the state championship, they will have to do a lot of hard work. The outstanding feature of the
game was the batting of H. Johnson for Davidson. He got three clean hits out of as many trips to
the platter, one of them being a home run and another a triple. The work of the Davidson pitchers was
very good, the three used only giving up two hits. Arrowood and Kugler fielded the ball nicely. For Denver, Drummond
was probably the outstanding player of the game. Box score follows with summary:

DENVER
H POA E
W. Sigman, cf 0 2 0 0
D. Sigman, 2b 0 1 2 0
Long, c 0 6 2 0
Howard, ss 0 1 1 1
G. Sigman, 3b 1 2 0 1
Drummond, p 0 1 3 0
Munday, 1b 0 7 0 1
Proctor, lf 0 2 0 0
Chorore, rf 0 1 0 0
Totals 0 24 6 3

DAV. FRESH
AB R H PO A E
Grey, ss 3 2 0 6 2 0
McAulay, 2b 4 1 1 1 0 0
Johnson, cf 3 3 3 1 0 0
Maulden, rf 2 1 0 0 0 0
Edwards, lf 1 2 1 0 0 0
Wilson, c 0 1 1 0 0 0
McNeil, c 0 0 4 1 1 0
McColgan, 1b 3 0 0 12 1 0
Crosland, 3b 1 0 0 1 1 0
Oden, p 2 0 1 0 1 0
Geathey, p 2 2 1 0 1 0
W. Cathey, p 1 0 0 0 2 0
Totals 18 11 8 27 9 1

Summary — Two-base hit: Drummond; three-base hits: Maulden, Johnson; home run: Johnson; sacrifice hits: Kugler, Johnson; stolen bases: Arrowood, Maulden,
Edwards, Kugler; double plays: McColgan (unassisted), Kugler to McAulay to McColgan; struck out: by Drummond 8, by C. Cathey 2,
by Leight 3; bases on balls: off Drummond 2, off W. Cathey 1.

That's the story that’s being told over in East, and for that reason it must be true.

For all insect bites, red bug, chigger, bee, wasp, mosquito, etc., apply wet baking soda or household ammonia, followed by
cooling applications of VICKS VapoRub. Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly.

For High Class PRINTING of every description
“Jam-Up” SERVICE see
C. M. S. McIlwaine
14 Ga. Agent for Presbyterian Standard Pub. Co.

All kinds of accessory clothing shown every Friday in the lobby of West Dormitory by Joe Harrison Clothing Company
APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
