THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 17, 1925

Alumni Notes

Edgar Tufts, 1922, and Mrs. Tufts, of Banner Elk, N. C., were visitors on the campus Saturday.

Rev. W. E. Hill, D.D., pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Fayetteville, N. C., has accepted the pastorate of the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond, Va., and will remove to that city in January. Dr. Hill is the father of Messrs. W. E. Hill and T. E. Hill of the class of ’29.

Rev. R. W. Miles, 1914, is now Secretary of State University Work in the Southern Presbyterian Church. Dr. Miles spent last week on the campus of William and Mary College in Virginia.

'22—T. M. (Bishop) Lowry, is studying history in the graduate school at Princeton.

'18—I. H. McKeithan is studying law at Harvard.

’21—J. M. Richards and W. C. Cummings, who are students at Oxford, began their Christmas vacation last week. Cummings is touring the countries of Europe, while Richards is in Egypt and intends to visit Palestine and the Balkans.

'04—L. T. Mills is a prominent lawyer in Camden, S. C.

'25—Charles Hunter of Reedy Creek, S. C., is teaching at Reedy Creek.

WILDCAT FOOTBALL TEAM (Continued from page 1)

The prevailing thoughts throughout the banquet have already been intimated in the exchange of congratulations. One other particular idea was predominant throughout the entire evening though, and that was in reference to the spirit of Davidson College, and what it means to men. This was emphasized, not primarily from the standpoint of what strength it gives to the team, nor the spirit upon the athletic field, but that in every activity at college, in the classroom, on the campus, in all phases of college life, there was a different kind of atmosphere not always present on other campuses. Furthermore, one of the Davidson alumni stated that he had found that the spirit of determined doggedness and indomitable courage that he had obtained on the campus was proving of lasting benefit to him in the business world, and when disappointments were staring him in the face, that his training at Davidson oftentimes saved him and spurred him on to work again.

During the course of the evening an invitation was formally extended to every man on the Davidson team who graduated this year to return to the banquet which that alumni association is planning to give at the close of next season. The affair Saturday night was the second time that a football team had been entertained, the Gaston association, however, acting as host to a third banquet, when in 1924 they entertained the baseball nine.

Just at the close of the banquet Manager Regen announced that Lucien Wells would captain the Wildcats in the season of 1926 as a result of the election that morning. Up until that time the outcome of the election was unknown to any of the players.

At the conclusion, officers of that association were unanimously elected as follows: President, Fred L. Smyre, of Gastonia; vice-president, C. M. Robinson, of Lowell; and secretary-treasurer, Hugh Query, of Gastonia.

The following letter men were present: Captain Black, Captain-elect Wells, Hendrix, Dick Grey, McComb, Harrison, Nisbet, Leggette, Vance, Laird, Anderson, Baker, McConnell, Pinkney, Bohannon, Arrowood, Jim Grey, Melton, Ritchie, and Manager Regen. Other Davidson guests were Monk Younger, Tex Tilson, Dr. J. M. Douglas, Dr. J. M. McConnell, Mr. F. L. Jackson, and Ernest Milton.

FROM EXPERIENCE AND OBSERVATION

You can put us down as saying that there are going to be lots and lots of lies told between the 23rd of December and the 5th of January.

Insurance Department. INSURANCE

We know the cost but we cannot even estimate the price of not carrying it.

McA. CARSON, Mgr. (’13) Independence Trust Co. Charlotte, N. C. PHONE 129

Fresh Home Made Candies! For the Holiday Season

We give prompt attention to all orders and wish to solicit your patronage

PIEDMONT CANDY KITCHEN 18 N. TRYON ST.

Charlotte Minister is Heard by Big Audience at “Y” Vesper Service

Rev. J. F. Ligon Delivers Inspiring Talks on Abraham and Prodigal Son

Rev. J. F. Ligon of the Tenth Avenue Presbyterian Church of Charlotte gave a very helpful talk at “Y” service Sunday night in Shearer Hall. The speaker chose two texts for his discussion, one from the eleventh chapter of Hebrews and one from the fifteenth chapter of Luke. They were: “not knowing whither he went” and “and took his journey into a far country.” The first has to do with Abraham leaving the home of his fathers and seeking a new home for his family; the second tells of the prodigal son leaving his father’s home. The burden of Mr. Ligon's remarks was a contrast of the two men, Abraham and the prodigal son. The two men were alike in that they were both young but they were different in that Abraham was religious and the prodigal was worldly inclined. The life of Abraham was characterized by seriousness of mind and steadfastness of nature whereas flippancy and carelessness characterized the latter. In that neither knew where he was going they were similar but that one was seeking a better place and environment and the other was leaving a good environment and seeking a worse place, there is a marked contrast. God is taking Abraham from a sinful city to a place to carry out his purpose and the prodigal is going to a place to satisfy his passions. Both were impelledby a great inner urge; the call of the far country and adventure was common to both. Abraham was conservative, religious, cautious, and self-controlled. The prodigal was restless, reckless, irreligious, and worldly. Different motives prompted them: Abraham was guided by God; the prodigal was guided by his own lusty ambitions. Radically different, their experiences were similar in that they both received the things for which they set out to get, but they greatly contrast in that one found riches, peace, happiness, and God, while the other found human degradation, shame, and loss of wealth, moral power, and popularity. After this vivid picture and contrast of the two men, the speaker drew the very apt conclusion that it is each individual's responsibility to choose his way in life—one of two ways—the God-directed life or the self-directed life. The first way leads to peace, happiness, and eternal life; the second leads to disappointment, humiliation, and disaster.

YOUNG PEOPLE'S CONFERENCE IN ATLANTA

During the Christmas holidays from December 29th through 31st, there will be held in Atlanta a conference for the young people of the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is estimated that there will be over a thousand young people gathered for the purpose of inspiration and study. A number of prominent speakers have been secured among whom are Dr. W. T. Thompson, Dr. Charles Pratt, Dr. Gillespie, Dr. B. R. Lacy, Dr. Charles Goodell of New York, and Dr. Egbert W. Smith. The conference bids fair to be one of the best ever held in the South. Several of the Davidson students are planning to attend the meeting. There will be some reduction in the railroad rates which will prove beneficial to those coming a distance. A small registration fee is charged but the convention will prove inexpensive as the delegates are to be entertained in the homes of Atlanta. Anyone desiring more information can obtain it by seeing any member of the Y. Cabinet.

READ ’EM AND WEEP

“I hear you and your girl had a misunderstanding.”
“Yes, I misunderstood her eyes.”

“What would you do if your girl would begin to cry?”
“I'd hang out a sign—'WET PAINT.”

“Boys, don’t throw your money away, somebody may want to borrow it.”

“What does your girl call you?”
“Down.”

——

Sixteen Freshmen

OH YOU CHRISTMAS!

Lashes to lashes,
Powder to dust,
If she puckers her lips
Then I know I must.

Win Grid Letters

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, sixteen freshmen were awarded the “D.C.” in football. This was a comparatively small number as compared to former years. The reason for this was that only a few men played regularly and substitutions were rather rare. Davidson High was again represented on the team by two men, Black and McConnell. Both of these men have brothers on the varsity and will have to work hard to come up to their level. Eight of the players came from North Carolina schools and three from Georgia. A number of these men show promise of making the varsity next year. James, who is a punter of no mean ability, was placed on the composite All-State Freshman team. Kell has shown Red Grange tactics in the backfield at times and Le Fevre is a guard of the first class. He also played tackle in two games. Flinn has shown himself to be very heady as a quarter and also Wenberg. The men receiving the “D. C.” are as follows: J.T. Kerr, of Wilmington; E. A. Holmgreen, of San Antonio, Texas; E. L. Smith, of Quitman, Ga.; N. A. McDonald, of Raeford; D. M. Ritchie, of Concord; R. L. Le Fevre, of Lexington; D. O. Leftwich, of Conyers, Ga.; A. N. Meyers, of Greensboro; H. R. McConnell, of Davidson; M. O. Crawford, of Sumter, S. C.; S. M. Black, of Davidson; J. O. Wenberg, of Wilmington; R. L. Kell, of Pascagoula, Miss.; J. T. James, of Galax, Va.; R. O. Flinn, of Atlanta, Ga.; and Mac King, of Bristol, Tenn.

Davidson Curriculum to be Increased Next Year

New Courses in Scientific Department Will be Added Next Term

Announcement will be made in the catalogue soon that Davidson is to install several new scientific courses. The geography department will be increased so that there will be courses in human, physical, and commercial geography and at the same time economic geology will be added to the present geology course. Students then can major in geology if they wish. It is expected that many men will take advantage of this, especially under so experienced a professor as Dr. Porter. Dr. Porter represented Davidson in the economic geology expedition sent out last summer by the University of North Carolina under W. F. Prontil. This party of fifteen started at Chapel Hill and for a little over five weeks prospected in Georgia, Tennessee, Virginia, and North Carolina, visiting also the principal mills and factories on their route. Dr. Porter accomplished two missions on the trip; not only did he greatly increase his already remarkable collection, but also he made preparation for the new economic collection. It is hoped, only marks the beginning of the addition of new scientific studies at Davidson.

DAVIDSON, N. C.

You can’t keep a good man or a bad drink down.

OUT THIS WEEK--NEW VICTOR RECORDS

No. Size
Let Me Linger Longer in Your Arms Peerless Quartet 19827 10
It Must Be Love (From Merry---Merry”) Peerless Quartet 19827 10
Flamin’ Mamie Aileen Stanley 19828 10
Sweet Man Aileen Stanley 19828 10
Let's Wander Away---Fox Trot Waring's Pennsylvanians 19814 10
Hay Foot, Straw Foot---Fox Trot Waring’s Pennsylvanians 19814 10
Neapolitan Nights---Waltz Don Clark and His La Monica Ballroom Orchestra 19789 10
Close Your Eyes---Waltz Max Dolin and His Orchestra 19789 10

PARKER-GARDNER CO.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
MUSIC DEPT.
Store open Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday nights