THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 5, 1925

ALUMNI NEWS. | R.O.T.C. News Literary Societies NOTES: | AES EEBISS: | DAVIDSON

‘o—Major A. L. James, of Charlotte, was on the Hill Saturday afternoon. Major James, whose signed editorials have been read
with a great deal of interest, is a graduate of West Point. He served in France during the World War
and was cited for bravery by General Pershing, the King of Belgium, and the President of France.

16—T. C. Sparrow was up for the game Saturday night. He is a physician in Charlotte.

15—J. M. Van Devanter, who is now at Tucson, Ariz., is much improved in health.

16—H. H. Wilcox is now in the insurance business in Elberton, Ga.

17—E. P. Nisbet was on the Hill Saturday night.

23—P. B. Guthery was up for the game Saturday night.

22—M. C. Dew, of Charlotte, visited his brother here during the weekend.

Marriages

11—Dr. R. C. Sample, of Hendersonville, and Miss Laura Candler, of Maxton, were married on February 21st. The couple left
immediately for Florida. Dr. Sample is a rising young physician.

FIVE YEARS AGO

This week five years ago the Wildcat quint had just returned from a trip to South Carolina, defeating the University
and Wofford, and losing to P.C. and Clemson.

Junior speaking was over and all the “fire” and “fury” had died down. The Juniors acquit themselves with honor, and
the would-be orators speak for once without manuscripts. The paper also commented that it was one of the best speaking
in many a year. On an inside page were four large pictures representing the causes of the Junior Speaking heart-aches.
The issue was not stinting in its praise of the success of the big social event.

The million-dollar campaign had just closed with great success. Already the grand sum of $1,004,018 had been raised and all
of the reports had not come in. Of that amount, $400,000 was to go to Davidson College and the rest
to be proportioned among ten other colleges and prep schools.

The prospects for a good baseball team were very good. There were nine lettermen back and about 75 other candidates.
Coach Hengeveld was busy getting a line on his men.

TWO DEPUTATIONS PROVE BENEFICIAL TO BOYS

Six Davidson Students Make Speeches in Two Neighboring Cities

Two important and profitable deputations were held during the past two weeks. One team consisting of J. A. McAlpine, D.
H. Stewart, and J. M. Appleby went to Mooresville, the deputation lasting throughout Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. At the high
school auditorium, they took part in the chapel exercises on Friday morning. Piggy Martin’s quartet, consisting of Wilson, Lockhart, Lowrance,
and Martin was also present and took part in the exercises. The quartet, however, came back after the chapel was
over.

On Saturday afternoon, the members went on a hike with the Hi-Y boys. They reported that the Mooresville lads have
a commendable organization. Sunday morning each of them held a class at different churches. Sunday afternoon marked the final and
climatic meeting, in which A. H. Hollingsworth was the speaker. At this meeting, Martin's quartet was again present to assist
in the program.

A week prior to the Mooresville deputation, C. F. Smith and S. F. Bryant went to Newton. This also lasted
three days, Smith and Bryant carrying on the same program as was carried out at Mooresville. Both made several speeches
at the schools and churches of Newton.

DOCTOR YATES SPEAKS TO MINISTERIAL BAND

Dr. O. I. Yates, for many years a missionary to China, spoke to the Ministerial Band at their meeting Sunday
in Shearer Hall. Dr. Yates is at present in this country on an extended furlough. The speaker based his talks
on three questions, which the president of the college he had attended as a young man had brought out in
an address before the college Ministerial Band. These questions vitally concerning all ministerial candidates were: What shall we do with
Jesus? What shall be our life work? Where shall we carry on our life’s work? Briefly passing over the first
and second questions, he based his talk mainly on the third question, “Where shall we carry on our life’s work?”

Mrs. Lewis Price, of Lewisburg, W. Va., was a guest at the home of her daughter, Mrs. W. W. Woods,
last week.

SODA : CIGARS PARKER COLLEGE FOUNTAIN PENS AND A SERVICE THAT CARRIES THE ENTHUSIASM OF A CLASS RUSH - Lynch’s
Pharmacy, Inc. 201 North Tryon St.

NONE TOO SMALL NONE TOO LARGE We Want Your Account Regardless of Its Size

Last Wednesday was the day set for competitive squad drill in the R.O.T.C. battalion. After the usual preliminaries, a bill
was presented—That Congress should be empowered to override by a two-thirds vote decisions of the Supreme Court which declare acts
of Congress unconstitutional. J. R. Falls and W. B. Price upheld the affirmative against I. M. McCutchen, J. M. Garrison,
J. E. Moore, and G. H. Zimmerman for the negative. The bill was defeated. Another bill was presented—That the North
Carolina Legislature should adopt the port terminals bill.

Eumenean

The last meeting of the Eumenean Society was opened with theUsual reading of the honors, the competition was very close,
minutes and the roll call. President Purdy then gave the floor to H. L. Shaw, Jr. in regard to the
use of the hall for Junior Speaking purposes. The matter was tabled until the next meeting.

The program of the evening started with a debate whose query read, Resolved, That the United States should increase her
naval forces. W. I. Lingle and C. R. Rowe debated on the affirmative and R. A. Duke and C. F.
Smith upheld the negative. The vote was two to one for the negative. The society applauded A. M. Martin extensively
on his oration Money and Its Values. J. M. Murchison gave a declamation and the meeting was closed with current
events by F. D. Daniels.

The following officers were installed at the meeting of the Metrophilian Society last Tuesday night: C. Ray, president; S. Christenberry,
vice-president; G. K. Sims, secretary; D. B. Wharton, critic; W. L. Albright and M. G. Lyerly, supervisors. On the debate
for the night J. G. Hand and M. G. Lyerly upheld the bill, Resolved, That the United States should increase
her naval forces, while J. Z. McDaniels and J. M. Andrew took the opposite side. The affirmative won the decision
of the judges.

The battalion was reviewed by the winners of these medals. Many of the board of trustees also witnessed the afternoon
drill and all seemed highly pleased with the showing made by the battalion. Captain Daugherity is in charge of the
rifle team which is now competing with other institutions of the South. Professor Wachter was present and gave a short
and illuminating talk on Vital Thinking Through Muscles.

Philanthropic

The newly elected officers of the Philanthropic Literary Society were installed at the meeting last Thursday night. The main feature
of the ceremony was the inaugural address by F. E. Calhoun, the new president. The other officers installed were A.
B. Williford, vice-president; C. G. Davis, secretary; J. E. Holshouser, critic; D. M. Calhoun and E. E. Lingle, supervisors. The
program for the evening consisted of an oration and the regular weekly debate, the subject of which was Resolved, That
the United States should increase her naval forces. A. B. Williford and E. E. Lingle, of the negative, defeated C.
W. Crinkley and W. S. Gordon, of the affirmative. W. L. Baker gave an interesting oration on Character Building.

Your teacher will tell you, a clean-shaven face in overalls looks better than needing a shave in full dress. The
Ingersoll Razor Strop gives you 300 shaves from one blade. Ask the clerks at White Drug Co. to tell you
how to look pleasant.

The first match standing of the scores did not appear to be very good, but it is believed that after
the team gets under way they will make a better showing. Captain George is working every afternoon getting the rifle
and pistol ranges in condition for spring firing. He expects to have the Freshmen firing on the outdoor range sometime
in March. The Sophomores will have a course in pistol firing sometime during March also.

GLEE CLUB SCORES HIT IN NEARBY AUDITORIUM

The Davidson songbirds winged their flight over to Cornelius last Saturday night and entertained the populace of that thriving metropolis
with a very interesting performance at the high school auditorium. There were about two hundred people present and everyone enjoyed
the program. Ed. Wilson, as he always does, made a hit with the audience by singing his selection of popular
songs. The Kiser brothers also met with the approval of the audience judging from the signs of immense applause. They
entertained the people for quite a while with their original blackface act. The clog dance staged by the Kiser twins
met with much approval not only with the audience but with the glee club itself, as one of the pair
whistled while the other did some old-time country clog dancing. The jazz dedicated Tessie to the chief of police of
that city, who favored them with his presence. On March 6th the Glee Club is planning to make a trip
to Lexington, N. C. The entire performance will be under the auspices of Watt McCain, a former student of Davidson,
who graduated in the class of ’24.

VOLUNTEER BAND

The Volunteer Band held its weekly meeting last Sunday morning at 10:15 o'clock in the “Y” reading room of the
gymnasium. The devotional part of the meeting was led by Burns Gibbs, the President of the band. Archie Ray and
Ben Wharton, who were delegates to the Volunteer Convention at Chapel Hill, were the speakers of the morning; and their
talks were in the nature of a report on the Convention.

Mrs. A. A. McGeachy, of Charlotte, spent Wednesday with her parents Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding.
