THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

EAT CAROLINA EAT CAROLINA

College Jewelry Watches and Clocks

Nine Tours State and For unless they get a better eye on the ball, both as to fielding and batting,
the season may rollick along with a woeful accounting at the end of the season.

South Carolina Track Meet on Saturday Week Wildcats Visit Columbia to Roll awarded to competitors in this GREAT WORD-BUILDING CONTEST.
Send stamp for circular and rules. Address, Sheffield Laboratories, Dept. 12, Aurora, Illinois.

JUNIOR SPEAKING PLANS

GLANCE OVER THIS SPORTOGRAPHS

VARSITY BASEBALL (Continued from page 1)

By Ernest Milton

A lovely humorous publication, bearing the very significant title Sanity Rare, will be distributed at the carnival in the gymnasium;
representatives of Davidson have contests within one week. Somebody is going to win and somebody is going to lose—or maybe
there will be a tie in some cases.

April 9—N. C. State at Raleigh.
April 10—Wake Forest at Wake Forest.
April 13—Carolina at Salisbury.
April 16—Wofford here.

VARIETY TENNIS
April 9—Clemson here.

FRESH BASEBALL
April 10—Rockingham High here.
April 11—Duke Fresh here.
April 13—Raeford at Raeford.

The guests of the various fraternities will begin to reach Davidson on Friday afternoon and will continue to arrive throughout
the weekend.

Best Place to Eat

Good Orchestra

SEEseaen ol

AB H PCT.
Vance 14 5 .343
Shin 10 3 .300
Davis 7 2 .296
Alford 8 2 .250
Covington 12 3 .250
Witt 13 3 .231
Woodham 15 3 .200
Witt 9 2 .222
Woodham 15 3 .200
Hampton 11 0 .000
Kimbrough 2 0 .000
Kugler 2 0 .000
McConnell 2 0 .000

Losing the first four baseball games is a Wantirre Hinuutig iat Baseball is of an art, and the Oca can't
always rely upon that Wildcat fighting spirit to win the game.

April 18—U. of S. C., at Columbia.

YOU MAY WIN $1,500
If you are able to make the most words out of the letters contained in the words “TOILET,” a total
of $3,000 IN CASH prizes will be awarded.

Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters

W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler
DAVIDSON, N. C.

The TATE-BROWN CO.
CLOTHIERS

“COLLEGE!” That’s what the new Society Brand Boulevard says to you. College clothes are not like other clothes. College men
wear what they like and if Fifth Avenue doesn’t like it, so much the worse for Fifth Avenue. Society Brand
makes clothes for college men. That’s why they make the best.

Dobbs Hats
French, Shriner and Urner Oxfords
Manhattan Shirts

Meets Carolina Monday
State and Wake Forest Met on First Day of Holidays, at Salisbury Easter

The baseball team will leave Wednesday for a trip through the eastern part of the state in an attempt to
break the losing streak that has been hanging over them this season. The first game will be in Raleigh against
N. C. State, on Thursday afternoon. State beat Duke by a small margin, who in turn beat Elon 16-0, so
a real scrap may be expected there. On Friday the team journeys down to meet Wake Forest on their home
diamond. Wake Forest is eager to avenge themselves of the defeat handed them by the Wildcats in basketball and are
primed to give the Davidson team one of the hardest scraps of the trip. Saturday the team will return home,
where they will rest until Monday, when they will meet Carolina in Salisbury. This promises to be one of the
best games of the season as the Wildcats may always be counted on to put up their best against the
Tarheels. After the Carolina game the team will take a two-day rest until the 16th, when they will play the
Wofford nine here. The team has been hard at work since the Elon game smoothing out the rough spots, finding
the weak ones and strengthening the team throughout. Laird, Ogden, and Hampton have been pitching real ball. Wrenn and Black
may be relied upon to handle the other end of the battery. In the infield, Woodham is handling first in
his capable way and at the hot corner Covington is playing his regular game of first-class ball. The other infield
positions are being fought out between S. Alford, Kimbrough, Simpson, and Kugler. In the outfield, Vance, Wells, and Davis are
showing up much better. The team that takes the field Friday against State will be practically the same team that
has been representing Davidson, but it will be a much-strengthened team, much better than before.Heretofore, and the scores should be
different from those handed in hitherto. The trip will be made in a large Safety Coach and 15 men will
make the trip, including the manager and coach. The following men will probably be taken: Wells, Vance, Davis, McConnell, outfielders;
Covington, Simpson, Kimbrough, Woodham, Kugler, S. Alford, infielders; Oden, Hampton, Laird, pitchers; Wrenn, Black, catchers.

A delightful evening was spent at the home of Mrs. Wilson MacConnell at an entertainment in honor of Mrs. Fulton.

“Equipment for Every Sport”
Reach
Spalding
Wright & Ditson
Goldsmith Goods
Myers Hardware and Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade Street

Twenty-four runs, 32 hits, and 28 errors is the record so far. We're hitting 'em high in all lines at
first, but we're optimistic enough to believe that this will not continue, at least in some channels. Frank Alford will
be out on the diamond again and will be ready for the Easter Monday game. We're glad of that. Even
though Harry Vance has made some miscues out in the field, he has certainly made atonement for part of them
by his slamming the ball out. Nine hits out of 16 attempts, with an average of .563. Not so bad,
Harry. The team's average is .252.

State last Saturday put a crimp into Duke's state championship aspirations, it seems. The Techmen defeated the Methodists, 5 to
4. However, three of State’s men who had been out of the game for the first of the season were
in. Red Johnson, Dutch Holland, and Gladstone are going to strengthen State’s chances considerably for State honors. But Guilford nosed
State out, 2 to 1. Elon also beat Davidson, 6 to 2. But the Wildcats easily defeated Wofford, 89 to
37, in the track meet here Saturday. At the same time, State was again displaying her strength by defeating the
strong V. M. I. track men, 68 to 58.

State must have an unusually good team to do that, since the Cadets have some good men along this line.
When you read this it will have been decided whether Coach Monk, Coach Tex, and Coach Rawson will be back
next year at Davidson. A great deal depends upon Davidson's athletics, whichever way their decision goes. Here’s hoping it will
be in the affirmative. They have done great work in the past two years in organizing Davidson's athletics, and not
to return would perhaps undo their accomplishments. Then they are good coaches, too, and the boys like them. The latter
means lots to a coach, so we are told.

Wonder what Lenoir is going to do this year in the way of a baseball team. Last year they created
a sensation over the state when they became near-state champions. The Freshmen open their season Friday with Rockingham High, which
is said to have one of the best high school outfits in the state. The following day they meet the
Duke Fresh. What they have in the way of material for next year’s team can be looked over then. Preliminary
contests against opposition that wasn't so strong show some good hurling material, and we need that. Don't forget that it
wasn’t Oden’s fault that we didn’t win the Elon game. His pitching was excellent.

Gamecock Crew—Closely Matched
On Saturday, April 18, Manager Patton will escort Captain Gracey’s team down to Columbia to give the track squad of
the University of South Carolina a scrap. It is understood that South Carolina track men are expecting to carry off
the laurels with a good margin, but according to comparative results, if their expectations become a realization, that margin will
be a narrow one. Davidson downed Wofford 87-39. The team suffered the same penalty before the team from South Carolina.
The Wildcats will be in much better shape by the eleventh than they were last Saturday. Brand will be in
shape for the dashes of the coming contest. Calhoun’s ankle is rapidly improving from an injury incurred in practice last
week. He is expected to exceed even his mark in the high jump of the last two weeks in which
he took respectively first place and a tie for first. Captain Gracey will also be in good shape by the
coming meet. There is no doubt, however, that the Wildcats will have a big job on their hands. The South
Carolina team is a strong one, and we also doubtless expect some improvements within the next two weeks.

NEW FRATERNITY FOUNDED
(Continued from page 1)
Men will hold their offices for the remainder of the school year. According to the members of the club, they
intend to keep it actively at work in building up interest and attainment in the Davidson biological department. Bi-monthly meetings
are held at which timely topics are discussed and the business of the club is transacted. An outstanding feature in
connection with the founding of this new scientific club is the fact that the members claim it was gotten up
entirely through student initiative and the faculty members were later admitted to membership.

For Dental Gold, Platinum, Silver, Diamonds, magneto points, false teeth, jewelry, any valuables. Mail today. Cash by return mail. Hoke
S. & R. Co., Otsego, Mich.

PNEUMONIA
Always call a physician. Until his arrival use “emergency” treatment with Vicks. This does not interfere with anything he may
prescribe.
VICKS VapoRub
Over 17 Million Jars Used Yearly

For High Class PRINTING of every description “Jam-Up” SERVICE see C. M. S. McIlwaine 14 Ga. wt Agent for Presbyterian
Standard Pub. Co.

All kinds of accessory clothing shown every Friday in the lobby of West Dormitory by Joe Harrison Clothing Company
APPLEBY AND MILTON, Mgrs.

Wholesale
When You Need Candy See Us
26-28 S. College St
CHARLOTTE, N. C.
