Merry Christmas

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., DECEMBER 17, 1925

Happy New Year

No. 14

Twenty-one Varsity Players Are Given Letters as Reward for Work This Season

Nine Men Receive Letters for First Time While Twelve Others Get Stars

At a recent meeting of the Athletic Council, twenty-one letters were awarded to the gridiron stars of the 1925 season. The number of letters is unusually large for the Davidson team, but this is due to the fact that such strong teams were met during the season that many substitutes were needed. Nine of the letters were awarded for the first time, and twelve stars were given to the veterans who had served for more than one year on the Wildcat team. The third star was added to the constellation of Jim Hendrix, star quarter of the Wildcat team, while the second star was given to five members who have played for one year and made their letters for three years.

A player must participate in at least twenty quarters of the regular scheduled games in order to be eligible to wear the “D”. After this, his name must be voted on by the council and even though he has played in the required number of games, it is possible that he will not be awarded his letter. This makes competition for berths and letters very keen and inspires the men to put out their all for the team.

The nine men awarded their letters in football for the first time are: H. M. Arrowood, Shelby; C. F. Ritchie, of Concord; J. Grey, of Huntersville; J. W. Melton, of Decatur, Ga.; R. Grey, of Davidson; W. O. Nisbet, of Charlotte; A. J. Hewlette, of Wilmington; C. W. Harris (Continued on page 2)

Students Refuse to Accept Monk’s Offer to Resign

Last Friday morning, C. F. Monk, editor-in-chief of the Davidson College Magazine, tendered his resignation from his position to the student body. Mr. Monk gave as his reason for resigning, the criticism of the recent issue of the magazine. He first requested the faculty to give him their approval of his resignation, and then presented his case to the student body. After a motion from the floor and much discussion pro and con, the student body voted almost unanimously to refuse to accept the resignation of the editor. The students gave him at the same time a vote of confidence and approval.

From the status of present conditions, and from the consensus of opinion of the student body, it seems that there will be no more issues of the magazine this year, unless a new staff and editorial board is formed at once. Last year only one copy of the magazine appeared, due to the financial condition of the periodical. The plans for this year were that there would be one issue before Christmas and three after the holidays. The vote of the student body in refusing to accept the resignation of the editor clearly demonstrates the degree of confidence in which the students hold his views and attitude. Monk, in presenting his resignation, urged the acceptance of his resignation for the best interests of the magazine. Monk is one of the most popular men in the student body, being cheer leader and member of the Omi- (Continued on page 3)

Scholarly Article by Local Professor Wins Place in the Johns Hopkins Review

Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake Contributes Interesting Article to Journal of Famous University

An article appearing in the current issue of the Johns Hopkins Journal is of noteworthy interest to Davidson students and professors. The subject of the article is: “Laws of Pronunciation in Eastern Virginia.” It was written by Dr. Edwin F. Shewmake, professor of English here. A brief summary of the article is as follows:

There are in eastern Virginia two dialect pronunciations to which little attention has been paid. According to modern dictionaries, ou in about, house, and out, is pronounced like the ou or ow in crowd, how, loud. But reasonably careful attention to the pronunciation of these six words by a native of that part of Virginia lying east of the Blue Ridge mountains known as eastern Virginia and embracing the Piedmont and Tidewater sections, will reveal a marked difference between the ou sounds of the first group (about, house, out) and that of the second (crowd, how, loud). The so-called standard pronunciation of the diphthongal ou is approximately that of a as in father plus that of oo in pool; but the dialectic pronunciation heard in eastern Virginia is approximately that of u as in but plus the same sound used in the standard pronunciation for the second part of the diphthong. The standard is perhaps more theoretical than actual, for there is room for a number of slightly different sounds ranging between that of a in father and that of u as in but as the first element of the diphthong. According to their pronunciation of such words as about, house, aunt, crowd, how, and loud, American speakers of English may be (Continued on page 8)

Seniors Hold First of Class Smokers

The first of a proposed series of class smokers was held by the Senior class last Wednesday night at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. The class assembled at 8:30 o'clock and proceeded without formality into a very successful get-together meeting. L. B. Huie, who was in charge of the smoker, presided and announced the program which was impromptu throughout. Several of the Seniors, among whom were Red Laird, Bill Mattison, and Buck Shaw, gave humorous talks, which were enthusiastically received. Then the speakers turned to a more serious vein. Roland Parker, president of the class, made a short talk in which he reminded the members of the Class of '26 that their time here is fast growing shorter, and advised that they make use of every opportunity to strengthen their class associations and friendships. Buck Shaw, Jim Appleby, and Hayden Hollingsworth were called on for short talks, and responded in their respective order, reviewing the history and attainments of the class, asking for the greatest amount of class spirit, and giving suggestions for the further work of the class.

After the speeches, a colored male quartette entertained for a while with negro spirituals and jokes. Then the meeting was turned over to the president and a short business meeting was held. Various suggestions for future class activities were discussed at length, and tentative plans made, but these will not be announced at the present. Huie was reappointed to have charge of (Continued on page 2)

NEW WILDCAT CAPTAIN

Lucien Wells is Chosen to Lead Davidson Team During Season of 1926

Star of Many Wildcat Battles Chosen by Team-mates as Their Captain

The election of Lucian Wells to captain of the 1926 football team marks an event of great interest not only to the students but to the alumni and others interested in Davidson’s athletic endeavors. On last Saturday morning, the football team met for the election of a captain to succeed Wick Black, worthy leader during the past year. On the first ballot, Lucian Wells and Joe McConnell led the ballots. A vote between Wells and McConnell was then held. The count was a close one as both of these men were outstanding men of the team and both of them popular as well. The result of this election was not announced until Saturday night, at the banquet given by the Davidson alumni of Gastonia. At that time Wells was notified of his election. Wells is a memberof the class of '26 and is one of its most popular members. This past year marked his third year as a member of the varsity football team at Davidson and he has been an outstanding player. He will be especially remembered for his playing against Carolina year before last. His game against Wake Forest this year, in which he crashed through the Demon-Deacon line for the Wildcat tally, was one of the best seen in the state this year. Wells is also a letter-man in baseball. The football season next year is looked forward to with anticipation now that it has a popular captain in Wells. He is a clean and a square player who plays hard at all times. The election of Wells as captain will give the Wildcats two captains on next year’s Wildcat varsity, since Black will return next year also.

(Continued on page 6)

Wildcat Football Team is Honored at Banquet Given by Loyal Gaston Alumni

Homeward Routes Hold Fascination At Holiday Time

At 7:00, approximately 75 people sat down to sumptuously spread tables at the Gastonia High School cafeteria, the occasion being the annual banquet given for the Davidson Wildcats by the Gaston County Alumni Association of Davidson College. At this time the Gastonia High School football team, state champions, were also guests of the alumni association in that county, as well as a few friends of the institution. The occasion was one of merriment, feasting, and rejoicing. Particular emphasis was placed upon the latter, since, as expressed by many of the speakers, the best high school football team in North Carolina, and one of the best college teams in the state, were assembled, congratulatory remarks being given to both teams frequently.

Following the delicious four-course dinner, served by some of the high school girls, Mr. Hugh Query, editor of The Gastonia Gazette and an enthusiastic alumnus of Davidson, acting as toastmaster, made a few introductory remarks in which he stated that the evening tended to prove a disappointment to him, since it had been his plan to have three speakers on hand, but that last-minute advice stated that it was impossible for any one of them to be there. No set program was followed out, but Mr. Query began calling upon speakers who gave talks that had the semblance of prepared speeches. It was an entirely informal affair, in which the various ones called upon expressed their sentiments in whatever words they chose to use.

(Continued on page 5)

Robert Franklin Davidson Wins Rhodes Scholarship for Excellence in Studies

Davidson Delegate at Princeton Meet

Princeton University was host to the National Collegiate Court Conference on the 11th and 12th of December. Delegates representing a large number of colleges and universities over the country gathered to discuss the World Court problem which has been before the students of the higher institutions of learning for the past six weeks. This meeting was for the purpose of crystallizing student opinion. Some of the most noted authorities on international questions, such as Van Dyke and Fosdick, were present to address the conference and to discuss the issues with the delegates. Davidson College, with the other North Carolina schools, favored entrance into the Court according to a vote taken several days ago. The conference by comparing the votes of the different schools found that the census of opinion was for the Court.

James Sprunt, of the class of '22, was the Davidson representative at the conference. While a student here he was an outstanding man and the college authorities considered him well qualified to act for his alma mater in this capacity. He is now a graduate student at Princeton. The student body officers carefully considered the advisability of sending a representative from the student body. Since the problem to be discussed at the conference had been so widely discussed on the campus, in the literary societies and in the various student body meetings, all concerned were anxious to see a student go to Princeton. There was a wealth of material from which to choose delegates and all was favorable.

(Continued on page 6)

The annual election of Rhodes Scholars, held recently in Swarthmore, Pa., resulted in the naming of 32 out of a list of 420 candidates. On this list of 32 appears the name of Robert Franklin Davidson, of the class of '23. This new honor, great as it is, is no surprise to his classmates and those who knew of his brilliant and energetic work on the campus. The following appears in the Quips and Cranks of '23 and sums up his character and accomplishments while at Davidson:

“Dignified and unassuming but with a perpetual smile which makes a friend of everyone he meets, Bob climbed steadily upward on the ladder of prominence. With four years on the honor roll, finishing as valedictorian of the class of '23, Bob holds a record seldom equalled by any student. But in the position of editor-in-chief of The Davidsonian he has served the college at the most difficult post on our campus, and the quality of the publication has borne evidence of Bob's editorial ability and untiring energy. D. C. is loathe to part company with a man of the calibre of Bob Davidson and we're hoping he'll decide to take his M.A. here. With the record which he carries it is superfluous to predict a brilliant future for this outstanding figure of the class of '23.”

While on the campus Bob was actively associated with 16 different student activities and his many friends feel that the Rhodes Scholarship was never more worthily awarded than to him. Under the Rhodes will, each state in the union elects two students to Oxford two years out of every three. Each of these

(Continued on page 3)