: THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1, 1925

South Wing Chambers is Nearing Completion
Campaign for Rebuilding Chambers Carried to Successful Conclusion

MOVE IN THURSDAY
Work on Other Sections Will be Started—Hurry Completion

After the burning of old Chambers, on November 28, 1921, plans were immediately put under way for replacing the loss.
East and West dormitories were authorized to fill the need for rooms and plans were made for a campaign to
rebuild Chambers. Although old Chambers only cost $81,000 back in 1860, at the time of the fire its valuation was
$250,000, and the cost of replacing and enlarging the building, replacing timbers with fire-proof material, was much greater. The proposed
building was to cost well over $500,000, so by the fall of the next year, less than a year from
the time of the fire, the $600,000 campaign was thoroughly organized and ready to be launched.

Campaign of Davidson
On Wednesday, October 18, 1922, the campaign was launched at Davidson with a quota of $25,000, $50 per man for
the entire student body. By midnight the quota had been exceeded, and $27,500 had been raised. The class of '23
averaged $57.83 per man; the class of '24, $51.40 per man; and the present graduating class, then Sophomores, averaged $50.40
per man, or a total of over $7,250 for the 144 members of the class. The next day a holiday
was granted to the entire student body. Thus the campaign was successfully started and a large part of the quota
was subscribed. The remainder came slowly, however, and it was not until early in 1924 that the contract for the
first section was let.

New Chambers
The new building will be built in three sections, two T-shaped wings and the central section. The estimated cost of
building is well over $500,000. In February, 1924, the contract for the south wing was let to Blythe and Isenhour,
of Charlotte, for $150,000. Work was started in the spring, and now a year later, the building is almost ready
for occupancy. The south wing which is being completed contains on the first floor nine executive offices, the book room,
the faculty room, store rooms, toilet rooms for men and women, two classrooms and three offices for instructors. There is
a capacious basement for store and work rooms. On the second and third floors of the building are nineteen classrooms
and seven offices for instructors.

Ready to Move in
Immediately after Commencement the executive offices of the college will be moved to the new building, and the library building
will be left exclusively in the hands of Miss Shaw, the college librarian. As soon as possible work will be
started on the other two sections, so that the building may be completed soon. The north wing will contain eleven
classrooms, fifteen offices, three departmental library rooms, and nine laboratories with necessary store rooms. In the central section will be
the auditorium seating 1,200 persons. There will also be a reception and banquet hall with kitchen and pantries. A well-designed
stage with six dressing rooms forms part of the equipment. There are also two club or classrooms in this section.

South Wing of New Chambers Under Construction, April, 1925
The building when completed will have a frontage of 312 feet, over 30 feet longer than that of the old
building which it replaces, and will be one of the best equipped college buildings in the South.

EIGHTY-THREE SENIORS
(Continued from page 1)
been completed, the graduating class will reign. The salutatory will be delivered by W. W. Purdy, a Phi Beta Kappa
man who has well earned the honor. After the salutatory address, the B.S. men will be presented, and will stand
as their names are read. Dr. W. J. Martin, president of Davidson, will present the diplomas to the men, who
will stand in front of the rostrum by pews—one group being seated to the left as the next group files
out from the right. When all B.S. men have received their diplomas, the A.B. men will be presented, and will
proceed in the same manner as the B.S. men. After these have been given the long-sought "dip," the lone Master
of Arts candidate will be presented by Dr. Frazer Hood, and receive his degree. After all academic degrees have been
presented, Captain Geo. H. Weems, U.S. Army, the Professor of Military Science and Tactics, will present to those men of
the class who have completed, successfully, four years of military work in the R.O.T.C. department, commissions as second lieutenants in
the Organized Reserve Corps of the Army. The names of these men will be read out by grades—the highest ranking
cadet officer first, etc. As their names are read, the men will doff their robes and caps, and will receive
their commissions in the military uniform. The presentation of honorary degrees will follow next. Men whom Davidson considers outstanding will
be honored by receiving degrees. As soon as honorary degrees have been given, the Valedictorianwill be presented and deliver his
address. M. W. Trawick, the recipient of this honor, has made a signal record in his scholastic work. He has
led the school almost every year during his course here, and will complete that course in a blaze of glory.
Below is a list of those who will receive degrees and commissions:

HONORARY DEGREES

Doctor of Divinity
Rev. Jesse Colin Rowan.
Rev. Samuel Williams Moore.
Rev. Robert Dale Daffin.

Doctor of Science
Dr. Porter Paisley Vinson.
Dr. James Pleasant Matheson.

Doctor of Laws
Mr. Robert A. Dunn.
Dr. James Ross McCain.

Doctor of Pedagogy
Prof. Spencer Jarnagin McCallie.

Military Commissions
Cadet Major J. A. Lake, Jr., certificate, under age.
Cadet Captain W. C. Ramsey, commission.
Cadet Captain J. P. Hendrix, commission.
Cadet Captain L. B. Gibbs, commission.
Cadet Captain R. T. Gudger, commission.
Cadet Captain J. R. Earnest, commission.
Cadet Captain J. R. Kimzey, commission.
Cadet 1st Lt. M. D. Thomasson, commission.
Cadet 1st Lt. W. J. Howell, commission.
Cadet 1st Lt. R. E. Boggs, commission.
Cadet 1st Lt. J. B. Hall, commission.
Cadet 1st Lt. W. A. Patterson, commission.
Cadet 1st Lt. J. A. Thompson, certificate, under age.
Cadet 2nd Lt. O. P. Matthews, certificate, under age.
Cadet 2nd Lt. T. A. Guiton, commission.

CANDIDATES FOR DEGREES

Master of Arts
Gilbert Douglas Sample.

Bachelor of Arts
Okey Johnson Allison.
John Daniel Baker, Jr.
Benjamin George Brown.
Henry Dockery Brown, Jr.
Otis Mack Brown.
Simril Faulkner Bryant.
James McLeod Carr.
Joseph Rhea Earnest.
Paul Butterfield Freeland.
Clayton Sharpe Furches.
Leonard Burns Gibbs.
William Minor Gracey, Jr.
Thomas Eugene Gray.
Thomas Alexander Guiton.
James Bartlett Hall.
James Hubert Anderson Hopkins.
Charles Richards Hunter.
Caldwell Pharr Johnston.
Robert Tabor Kimzey.
James Albert Lake, Jr.
John Dickenson Laws.
Lawrence Calvin Little.
William Aulay McAulay.
Brown McCallum.
Moore Stirling McIlwaine.
Archibald Campbell McIntyre.
Cornelius Chasten McMillan.
Thomas Curtis McSwain.
Arthur Duncan Malley.
Arthur Morrison Martin.
James Ferguson Milhous.
Alfred Nisbet Moffett.
Williamson Wallace Morris.
Paul Morrison Patterson.
William Allen Patterson.
Oliver Pharr Matthews.
Harry Bayard Price.
Archie Cole Ray.
Grafton Dulaney Rogers.
Alvin Thompson Rowe, Jr.
Albert Franklin Simpson.
Joseph Edgar Singletary.
Willard Gilbreth Thomas.
John Archie Thompson.
Martin Whitford Trawick.
Hugh McAden Wells.
David Benton Wharton.
Hugh Ernest Wilkinson.

Bachelor of Science
McPherson Scott Beall.
Ralph Erwin Boggs, Jr.
Julian Rosser Briggs.
Charles Michael Brown, Jr.
Lander Eugene Calhoun.
John Malloy Clayton Covington.
Louis Philip Cox.
John Bryant Gallent.
James Roby Gudger.
James Paisley Hendrix.
John Cicero Hunt, Jr.
Miles Moore Hunter, Jr.
Kenneth Lewis.
Frances Henley Lindley.
Richard Littlejohn.
Alexander Worth McAlister, Jr.
Kenneth Shepherd McAlpin.
James Harvey McConnell, Jr.
Henry Belk Matthews.
Frank Roberts Montgomery.
Raymond Wilson Oeland.
Marcus Reece Patrick.
Norman Guthrie Patterson.
James Harvey Patton, Jr.
William Wallace Purdy, Jr.
William Campbell Ramsey.
Raney Oldham Sellars.
Thomas Frank Staley, Jr.
Milton Dillard Thomasson.
Harry Alexander Townsend.
James Morris Trotter.
Robert Wright Walker.
Robert Dixon White.
John Milton Williams, Jr.

(Continued from page 1)
while at Davidson will receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Science from the college on commencement day. Miss Smith
was elected to membership by the chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at the University of Alabama, and will be initiated
by the local chapter. Following the initiation, routine matters of business were disposed of and reports of officers heard. The
new officers elected at the last meeting of the chapter assumed their duties, and will serve for one year. These
officers were: Dr. C. R. Harding, President; Dr. J. L. Douglas, Vice-President; and Prof. W. W. Wood, Secretary-Treasurer. Professor Wood
was re-elected to this office. The National Council of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa will convene at New
York City early in September. The local chapter will be represented at this convention by Dr. J. M. McConnell, Dr.
T. W. Lingle, and Prof. W. W. Wood.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM

SUNDAY, MAY 31
11:00 A. M. — Baccalaureate Sermon, Rev. J. G. McAllister, D. D., Louisville Theological Seminary
8:00 P. M. — Annual Sermon Before Y. M. C. A., Rev. Neal L. Anderson, D.D., Savannah, Ga.

MONDAY, JUNE 1
5:30 P. M. — Senior Class Exercises
8:00 P. M. — Dramatic Club Presentation
10:00 P. M. — General Fraternity Receptions

TUESDAY, JUNE 2
9:30 A. M. — Meeting of Board of Trustees
12:15 P. M. — Annual Literary Address, President J. R. McCain, Agnes Scott College
1:30 P. M. — Annual Alumni Luncheon — Meeting of Alumni Association
5:00 P. M. — Reception by the Faculty
8:00 P. M. — Exercises of Literary Societies — Contest for Senior Oratorical Medal — Award of Society Diploma, Trophies
and Medals
10:30 P. M. — Senior Class Feature

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 3
10:30 A. M. — Award of College Medals — Graduating Exercises — Lowering of Class Flag

Upper Left: Front View.
Upper Center: Chambers Ruins showing rear of building. Below, Left to Right: Old Chambers; Martin Chemical Laboratory; Shearer Hall; South
Wing Chambers Under Construction.
Upper Right: Chambers Columns.
