Vol. XII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., FEBRUARY 26, 1925 No. 19

WILDCATS WIN FOUR IN GREAT TRIP THROUGH VIRGINIA

Davidson Wins Four of the Seven Matches and Tar Heels Gather Trio
Six Matches Stretch Into Extra Periods as Men Prove Equal
COX AND WATERS STAR

This Month Closes a Very Successful Season for Captain Weems’ Grapplers

The Davidson wrestling team defeated the University of North Carolina matmen at the Davidson gym Saturday night by the score of 14-11. Davidson won four matches, three on time and one on fall, while Carolina annexed two on time and one by default. All of the matches were well fought throughout, six of them stretching into extra time periods. The margins of victory in all the matches were very small, also making them interesting and exciting. The match between Waters and L. P. Cox was the most interesting and closest of the evening, the time advantage deciding the match being only nine seconds. The most exciting match was in the light-heavyweight class, Warner and Vance, in which Vance was injured and unable to continue. Frierson and W. D. Cox also showed up well, Cox getting the only fall. Summers won the victory for Davidson in the last match of the evening, in the heavyweight class. The score was tied 11-11 before this match began, and by winning on time from his man, Summers boosted the score up to 14-11.

Both teams showed excellent training and spirit. The good spirit of both teams was especially noticeable since there were several close decisions by the referee. An interpretation of the rules was needed at one time to decide the winner of the match.

Summary:
115 pounds—Frierson, Davidson, won from Heaffner, Carolina, in 5 minutes 8 seconds.
125 pounds—Mostinger, Carolina, defeated (Continued on page 2)

High Schools Invited to Compete in Track Meet

Forty-Five High Schools Are Asked to Enter Big Track Carnival Here

Forty-five prep and high schools throughout North Carolina have received invitations from the Davidson Athletic Association to participate in an extravagant track and relay carnival, to be held on Richardson Field, on March 21st; and a number of schools have indicated their desire to enter the contests. A handsome silver loving cup will be awarded to the school with the highest team score at the completion of the various track and field events. A mile-relay, open to teams of four runners, will be the principal event of the afternoon; and the winner in this contest will be given a credit of five points on the total team score. Other events will include: hundred-yard dash; 220-yard dash; 440-yard run; 880-yard run; 220-yard low hurdles; running high jump; running broad jump; pole vault; javelin throw; shot put; mile run; and discus throw. The same rules employed in the annual Interscholastic Track Meet, held at Chapel Hill each spring, will be used in determining all questions pertaining to eligibility and qualification. Judges will be selected from the coaching staff and faculty of the college. The date has been arranged so as not to conflict with any other athletic event. Dinner will be served by the college to the members of all the teams, and entertainment (Continued on page 7)

Davidsonian Will Benefit by a Recital of Kipling

Professor Carl Wachter to Direct Recital Based on Works of Famous Author

On Thursday evening, March 20th, at 8:15, in Shearer Hall, a recital of Kipling’s poetry will be given by Prof. Carl Wachter, for The Davidsonian. Kipling is undoubtedly the favorite poet of men on two continents. He is a living immortal. His “Danny Deever,” “Mother O’ Mine,” and “Mandalay,” have been set to classic music and are favorite numbers on every concert stage in America. One of the greatest of modern plays was built upon the theme of Kipling’s “Vampire,” and his “If” has strengthened the moral backbone of thousands of men. “The Recessional” is unsurpassed as a national religious hymn, and is not excelled in the English language for nobility and majesty.

Concerning Kipling’s style the Encyclopedia Americana has the following to say: “A genuine master of language, though with certain limitations, he (Kipling) ranges from the brutal speech of the barracks and the vivid slang of the smoking room to a diction that is noble and majestic. He has an almost inspired instinct for the essential thing, for that which stands out as typical of the whole, and he can flash it upon the minds of his hearers in startling and impressive felicity of expression.”

The management of The Davidsonian have decided to place the recital within the reach of every student by reserving the entire hall at 50 cents per ticket. The proceeds are to (Continued on page 7)

Interest Shows in Spartanburg Meet

The annual conference of the Southern Students Association of International Relations Clubs will convene in Spartanburg, S. C., on February 26th, 27th and 28th. The Wofford and Converse Clubs will be the hosts to the conference. The Davidson chapter elected as its two representatives to the conclave Whitford Trawick and Roland Parker. Dr. J. M. McConnell will also probably attend as the faculty delegate. An elaborate program is announced by the president, James G. Gathings, Furman University. Speakers of international note from various foreign nations will address the convention. Among the most distinguished of these are: Prof. Boris K. Morkovin, University of Prague, Czecho-Slovakia; E. M. Poteat, Kai Feng, China, and Honorable Theodore Marburg. The Davidson delegates have been assigned a prominent part in the round-table conferences which comprise a prominent feature of the meeting. Several social features will enliven the delegates at appropriate times. The association, as its name implies, is an organization of student clubs throughout the South whose prime purpose is a study and consideration of international relations. It is honorary in its character, limiting its membership largely to Juniors and Seniors. It has chapters in 20 of the South’s leading colleges and universities. Davidson, Duke, Carolina, and State, are the North Carolina members. The local club, with a membership of approximately 25 Juniors and Seniors, is unusually well organized this year; and its members, chosen strictly on the basis of ability, interest and merit, have shown extraordinary interest in the work of the club. The membership campaigns each year, open only to members of the Junior and Senior classes, are employed in filling the ranks of the club, left vacant by graduating members.

Juniors’ Interest Rises as the Gladsome Days of Speaking Approach

Flowers That Bloom in the Spring Have Nothing on Juniors
WILSON IS HEAD

For Five Days All College Will Fall Under Sway of Mirth and Fun

Junior Speaking of 1925 will eclipse all events of a similar nature that have yet held their sway at Davidson. The truth of such a remark lies not in the hopes and beliefs of the Juniors but in the actual plans that are being laid under the direction of D. G. Wilson, chairman of the Junior Speaking Committee, and the members of his committee. The date is April 9th to April 13th, inclusive; the place is all Davidson; and the action during that time and at that place covers even a wider field. School will be dismissed Thursday morning, April 9th, for the Easter holidays, and will resume work Tuesday, April 13th. Friday evening is the date for the opening event which is to be in the nature of a baseball game. The Davidson Freshman team will play a game with some other team, which at present has not been decided upon. Friday night the Davidson College Glee Club will present a concert in Shearer Hall. The Glee Club has appeared once already atDavidson, and last fall completed a trip through South Carolina as well as several other short trips to nearby towns. Their merit has already been proved, and in featuring them Friday night, the Junior class presents one of the strong points of the holidays. Duke University comes to Davidson Saturday afternoon for a track meet. It was solely through the work of the Junior class that this meet was obtained for this day, and the reward for their work will be one of the most interesting and hotly contested athletic events ever appearing on the hill. 

Saturday night marks the high-water mark of holidays. As yet, the plans for this night are not fully materialized, but the attraction will be something of a street carnival held in the gym and whose feature will be a negro minstrel. The supervision of this minstrel is under Prof. F. J. Erwin, and his success in amateur theatricals at Davidson always guarantees the highest type of performance when under his direction. There will be many other attractions at this carnival whose nature will be revealed later. The gym will be gayly decorated in the colors of the college and the class, and in this background of color, with girls and boys moving in the midst of the gay holiday spirit of the season.

(Continued on page 7)

A Rudyard Kipling Recital by Professor Carl Wachter
Shearer Hall
Thursday Evening
March 20th
8:15 o’Clock
All Seats Reserved
Admission Fifty Cents

Ray and Wharton Attend Conclave at Chapel Hill
Delegates Report This to be One of Best Conferences of the Kind Ever Held

Beginning Friday afternoon, February 20, the North Carolina Volunteer Union held its conference at the University of North Carolina. The conference lasted through Saturday and Sunday, closing the evening of the latter. Members of the Volunteer Bands of every college in the State were present at the conference. The local Volunteer Band was ably represented at the convention by two of its members, Archie Ray and Ben Wharton. They report that the conference was one of the most interesting in many years and assert that it was well worth their time to attend it.

In addition to the regular speakers of the conference, there were two traveling secretaries present, Miss Corilla Broadnax, of New York City, and Mr. Joseph Connelly, of Texas. Both of these secretaries are from the student volunteer headquarters in New York City. The Y. M. C. A. of the University was host to the conference throughout its session, and made the delegates’ stay a pleasant and interesting one. The attending delegates were entertained in a charming manner at various homes. One of the many pleasant affairs in the convention was a reception for the delegates at the Baptist church. Various stunts by different colleges featured before the banquet. The speeches and instructive talks were clear-cut and noticeable for their forcibleness.

(Continued on page 2)

Student Delegates Lead “Y” Services

Mr. Williams, “Y” secretary, Norman Patterson, and Harry Price, delegates to the North American Missionary Conference in Washington, were speakers at the “Y” service Sunday evening. Mr. Williams gave a brief summary of the conference in which he showed the enthusiasm that prevailed throughout the meeting. There was snow and rough weather, but the thousand delegates were there every day and attentively listened to the sixty-two speakers. President Coolidge delivered the opening address, and Mr. Williams was greatly impressed by his sincerity. There were six speakers who brought out the spirit of the service. Bishop Brant spoke of the brotherhood of man, and said that the best method of preventing war was that no Christian nations would carry on war. Miss Margaret Burton, John R. Mott, J. H. Oldham, and Robert E. Speer made powerful and gripping addresses.

Norman Patterson was then introduced and he said that when he saw how many speakers there were to be, he thought he would not be able to understand all that was said, but that the fundamental thought each introduced was that we should consider Jesus Christ our friend. The only difference that he could detect between the foreigners and Americans was the color of the skin and the slight accent. The souls of all men being of equal value, he went away seeing no distinction between the people of different nations. He emphasized the fact that Christ Himself, and not a lot of theology, must be put before souls now more than ever. An Indian who had visited America said that the religion we had did not seem real but a mild inoculation of something that made us immune to real Christianity. He thought the meeting was a great success and

(Continued on page 6)

Davidson Loses Only Game of Trip to the Lexington Generals
Guilford Defeated by Wildcats on Way to Old Dominion

DAVIDSON 40, V. P. I. 29
Hampden-Sidney and Roanoke Beaten by Decisive Scores—Anderson Goes Fine

The Davidson Wildcats completed one of their most successful trips of recent years by winning four out of five games on a journey through Virginia. Playing Guilford on the way up to the Old Dominion and winning by a 59-27 score, the Wildcats trimmed the Virginia Tech, Hampden-Sidney, and Roanoke quints, losing only to the fast Washington and Lee team. All the games were won by comfortable margins, Coach Younger's men over doubling the score in all save the V. P. I. clash. The victory over Guilford was the most decisive in many years, while the defeat of the three Virginia teams placed the Wildcats high in the won and lost column. The Davidson boys scored 193 points to their opponents' 125, Anderson leading the tallying. Every man on the team at times was the star of the game, and much praise was given to the Wildcats and Coach Younger for the fast attack that has been developed. The work of the three reserves, Hudgins, Beall, and Huie, was of good order, Coach Younger using them repeatedly in every game.

Davidson 59, Guilford 27
Coach Younger's Wildcats opened up on the first game of the trip, even before getting into the Old Dominion, by running away with the Guilford College game, 59-27. Playing on the Quaker court, the quint showed a powerful attack, outclassing the Guilford squad from the very first. Guilford accounted for four points before

(Continued on page 8)

Peabody College Guests Addressed by Dr. Hood
Dr. Frazer Hood Represents Davidson Faculty at Peabody College Anniversary

Dr. Frazer Hood, professor of Psychology in the Davidson faculty, was in Nashville, Tenn., during the past week for the celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the establishment of the Peabody Foundation. This is a fund left by the late George Peabody for benevolences. Two years ago this fund was turned into the present Peabody Institute which serves in training primarily teachers.

Doctor Hood served a two-fold purpose at the celebration; not only was he the designated representative of Davidson College, but he was also a specially invited guest for the occasion. The most prominent colleges of the whole country were represented by leaders of the respective colleges, many of whom made brief addresses to the assemblage. Among the more noted guests were the British Ambassador to the United States and a Supreme Court Judge—both these notables delivered addresses which were not only enlightening but also highly interesting and entertaining. The ambassador from Great Britain spoke on what the Peabody Institute has done for England. He brought out the tremendous part that the Peabody Institute had played in the education of the English youth. The celebration lasted over a period of

(Continued on page 7)