5 6 See re: THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 3, 1925

DRAMATIC CLUB FELLOWS

We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.

The New York Cafe

Next Year’s Schedule

SPORTOGRAPHS

Tentative Schedule is announced by Manager for Basketball Team

It’s all over now, boys, but the cheering, and there’s plenty of that to do.

Schedule Plans for Games With All Large State Teams Except Charlotte

The past season was a great one, full of great games. Many students saw every game.

Graduations Will Hurt

Now that the pigskin has been locked up for another year, all eyes are turned towards basketball. For the past two weeks, 15 men have been working out daily with Coach Younger while Coach Younger was engaged with football. In a day or two, regular practice will be started for the whole squad, including those who were on the football team. Four letter men from last year’s squad have been lost to the team, but six other letter men are in school at present, about whom Coach Younger can build up this year’s team. These men are Captain Anderson and Andy Hewlett.

Manager Garrison reports that the schedule has been made out in part. To date, it embraces games with all of the big state teams except Wake Forest. Negotiations are being made for a trip into Virginia. The schedule to date is:

Dec. 20—Concord “Y” at Davidson.
Jan. 8—Duke at Davidson.
Jan. 13—Wofford at Davidson.

The greatest change in the Davidson schedule is the placing of four light teams in the first part of the season, thus causing the latter half to be unusually heavy with games.

Davidson Goes to Lexington for Virginia Cadets

By Ernest Milton

Davidson, Nov. 25.—Dr. J. T. Douglas, faculty manager of Davidson athletics, last night announced the Wildcat football schedule for 1926, the only new team to take a place on the Davidson card being V. M. I., which will be played at Lexington on October 30th. A return game will be played on Richardson Field in 1927 with the Virginia Cadets, thus affording the western section of North Carolina its first view of the famous “Flying Squadron.”

The last game with the Cadets was in 1919, when the Davidson team went under by a 14-7 score in Lexington, although the Wildcats had won two years before that by a 23-7 score on a Danville gridiron.

The final announcement of a game with N. C. State during fair week in Raleigh in the place of the great Carolina-State game will be received by Davidson alumni in east North Carolina with great rejoicing.

Duke will be played on the Durham field again in 1927, another two-year contract of campus-to-campus nature having been signed respectively for one, two, and three years.

The overwhelming defeat of Duke was a fitting climax to the season, and the support that the Davidson student body gave the team that day ought to be assurance enough to college officials to know that the student body is justly and forever back of the Wildcat team.

Duke did not have such a good team this year, but when she comes back to Davidson campus in 1928 for a Thanksgiving melee, they are going to have one of the strongest teams of the South.

Simultaneously we develop a feeling of sadness, for Carolina beat us. But in so doing she knew a Wildcat team was there, and all we can do is to look forward to next year.

The Synod of Mississippi and Columbia Theological Seminary Join Forces

Resolution in Regard to the Columbia Theological Seminary, Adopted November 13, 1924.

“The Synod of Mississippi has heard with pleasure the plan for the removal of Columbia Theological Seminary to the City of Atlanta, Ga.

I. Does hereby accept said offer of the Board of Directors of said Seminary when the removal of the Seminary shall have become an assured and legal fact.

II. And as this removal may be thus assured, the Synod does hereby appoint as its representatives to the Board of Directors of said Seminary:

Rev. C. W. Grafton, D. D.
Rev. J. B. Hutton, D. D.
Mr. R. E. Kimbrough

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, President

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies

JAKE MARTIN, Prop.Needed was a little more man-power. Maybe Black would have been the necessary amount of extra flesh.

The Wildcats are losing six regular players and two other lettermen, and this is probably done to give the two Davidson coaches time to develop another real fighting machine, for it is generally admitted that with Hendrix, Baker, Black, Wells, McComb, Laird, and Vance and Anderson gone, Younger and Tilson will have to build a team anew.

Furman University, since 1902 a great rival of the Davidson eleven, has finally passed off of the schedule, though it is not known whether this will be permanent or not. This leaves Davidson with a more balanced schedule, meeting six North Carolina elevens, two South Carolina, and two Virginia teams. The acquisition of the V. M. I. game means that Davidson is meeting one more team. In the past two seasons, the Wildcats have played five games with members of the Southern Conference, winning two, losing two, and tying one. In these games, Davidson scored 23 points to the S. I. C.’s team’s 29.

Hendrix had a walk-away on the composite all-State pick, they say, while there never was any question about Vance being the best guard in this territory.

We've lots to be proud of, and we hope you are just as proud as we are of the team that by many people is considered the best in the State.

What kind of students are coming to Davidson next year, fellows? We want a few athletes in the bunch; and we want you to talk Davidson to them when you go home for Christmas. We might need a few.

1925 Football Schedule
The following is the schedule announced by Dr. Douglas, subject to slight change:
Sept. 18—Elon at Davidson.
Sept. 25—Wofford at Spartanburg.
Oct. 2—P. C. at Rock Hill.
Oct. 9—Guilford at Davidson.
Oct. 16—N. C. State at Raleigh (fair).
Oct. 23—Wake Forest at undecided place.
Oct. 30—V. M. I. at Lexington, Va.
Nov. 6—Hampden-Sidney at Davidson.
Nov. 13—North Carolina at Davidson (home-coming).
Nov. 25—Duke at Durham (Thanksgiving day).

Phi Beta Kappa Initiates
(Continued from page 1)
In addition to the men named as speakers at the banquet, the men who are to be initiated Friday are: Dr. B. F. Wilson, ’84, pastor of the First Church of Harrisonburg, Va.; Mr. H. H. Caldwell, ’03, Registrar of Georgia Tech; Prof. W. C. Rose, ’07, of the Chemistry Department of the University of Illinois; Prof. H. L. Moore, ’08, Professor in the Carnegie School of Technology; Prof. K. J. Foreman, ’11, Professor of Bible and Philosophy at Davidson; Prof. C. R. Wilcox, ’11, President of the Darlington School for Boys, Rome, Ga.; and H. L. Shaw, Jr., B. U. Ratchford, and E. K. Regen, of the Senior class.