4 ao The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........Managing Editor
WISE MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher Editor
H. B. PRICE........Associate Editor
W. H. BRANCH........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW........Associate Editor
G. D. ROGERS........Athletic Editor
L. D. WHARTON........Alumni Editor

Business Staff
J. A. THOMPSON........Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN........Subscription Manager
C. R. HUNTER........Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON........Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH........Typist

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.
C. R. ANDERSON
M. APPLEBY
I. M. AUSTIN
C. L. BRAGAW
V. S. BROYLES
D. M. CALHOUN
W. T. COVINGTON
W. T. DAVIS
C. M. EDDINGTON
F. T. FRANKLIN
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS
J. M. GARRISON
J. P. GLADNEY
A. LINGSWORTH
J. D. LAWS
R. H. McILWAINE
GARNETT McMILLAN
J. E. MOORE
C. C. MURCHISON
R. B. PARKER
E. K. REGEN
J. B. THOMPSON

EDITORIAL

Happy New Year!

1925 is with us for better or for worse, so let’s make the most of it. The Class of ’25 has only five more months on the hill, the conclusion of four years of good fellowship and happiness.

Now that Trinity College is no more, the jinx which the Blue Devils have placed on the Wildcats may be broken. The Wildcats broke the jinx on Turkey Day, but Duke University should prove easier to beat than Trinity College. A change will do the Wildcats some good, anyway.

By winning the finals of the Junior-Senior debate just before the holidays, the Pandemics kept their Junior-Senior debating record clean. Since its foundation in 1922, the Pandemic Society has won every Junior-Senior debate.

Two weeks of holidays are over, but a large part of the Senior Class is expecting another ten-day period of rest from the cares of school work. It takes a grade of 85 to be excused, and the next two weeks will tell the tale. Work hard and earn the reward. Good luck, Seniors.

The 1925 basketball schedule contains three games, the most comprehensive schedule a Wildcat quint has undertaken in many years. Carolina will be met for the first time.

THE DAVIDSONIAN, JANUARY 8, 1925

Open Forum

(This department is conducted by the editor, for the benefit of those members of the student body, or faculty, who desire to express their opinions on any matter which might arise during the collegiate year. It is the hope of the Davidsonian staff that the column will be conducted for the betterment of campus life, and that the students will express themselves freely and enter into open-hearted discussion on campus problems. The names of the writers will be withheld from publication, if such is the desire of the writer. All articles must be handed in to the Editor of The Davidsonian by 7:00 p.m. Monday.)

THE PICTURE SHOWS

A few weeks ago an article appeared in this column of the Davidsonian which bore a complaint concerning the noise and unnecessary disturbance which was prevalent at the picture shows at the gymnasium Saturday night. This article stated that the noise was annoying and that it disturbed many patrons, especially the ladies.

Why could not the motion picture shows be held in the auditorium of the local high school? There is ample seating room in that auditorium—a place where it could be kept under lock, and would really be safer than at the gymnasium. It is the belief of many with whom the writer has talked that this would put an end to all such noises as the shooting of fireworks and the creating of other disturbances which at present keep many people from attending shows which they would enjoy seeing. Then, too, there are no adequate seats at the gymnasium for the ladies to sit upon after they come to the show. If the pictures were shown at the school building there would be plenty of seats and the crowd would be much more orderly. The Y. M. C. A. would undoubtedly profit by the change, for it would have a much larger number of customers. This would enable them to let the school make a small profit for the use of the building, and would also add to the treasury of the “Y.”

G. M.

THE FINAL GRIND

Two weeks from today, the mid-term examinations commence, and continue for ten days. Although work throughout the whole term is of supreme importance, work during the final days will count heavily toward the preparation for the ensuing test. Upon the term’s work depends the success with which the student meets the mid-term test. To those who succeed, there remains a future at Davidson, but there are always a few who realize too late that successful scholastic work is the first requirement of college. There is no place at Davidson for the man who fails to pass his work. Before the examinations come the last series of monthly tests, the best preparation possible for the more severe tests of the following weeks. Seniors who pass the final preliminaries with flying colors will be exempted from the examinations. Two weeks more of hard work, and ten days of harder work will wind up the first semester of the year 1924-25. May the student body pass through the tests and enter on the second half year with its ranks still filled. Hard work is all that is needed to win success.

THE DUKE BEQUEST

The forty million dollar donation of Mr. J. B. Duke to the cause of education in the Carolinas, is the largest gift to education ever made in the South, and one of the largest in the history of the United States. By his gift Mr. Duke is enabling the colleges benefited to increase their equipment and efficiency. The North is always slow to recognize Southern institutions and work along every line, and education is no exception. Southern institutions as a whole have pitifully inadequate equipment as compared with the leading Northern colleges, but with the growing commercial development and prosperity in the South, this state of affairs is gradually changing.

CLASS RUSHES

“Freshman Flag Flies in Defiance of Sophs” is the headline that The Technique (Georgia Tech) carries over a news story of a recent occurrence in that school. Editorially the paper condemned the freshmen for their lack of college spirit in such an over-abundance of class pep (“selfishness”) but still it seems that the incident carries some element of importance to the Davidson students.

Not that we are afraid of any such occurrence at Davidson. Not in a school that lets its football team go away for the Thanksgiving football game without even a semblance of a send-off at the railway station. Not in a school that allows the same team to return after winning a great victory without any reception. Nor in a fresh class that is in any way related to last year’s which so meekly bowed to a humiliating ceremony as their numerals were painted over on the college water tank.

Does not the occurrence show that there should be some means of outlet for the spirit that theoretically heads? In many of the larger schools and universities of the East and Mid-West (and for all we know throughout the entire country) there is a traditional custom of a class rush. Immediately this brings the condemnation of hundreds of the Davidson students as being “too much like a prep school.” Far from it. For who can call Northwestern a prep school? or Illinois?

A MINISTERIAL STUDENT

What is one anyhow? Well, at any rate, they are human beings and if you intimately associate with one you'd soon discover this. What excuse is there for an Open Forum article on this subject? On Davidson campus for the last four years I’ve heard that the Ministerial candidates were a bum lot of fellows; thatIn this band, composed of many leading men of the four classes who have decided to devote their lives to full-time Gospel service, there are many men who are hypocrites, that they don’t know what they’re doing, and furthermore they don’t care. Is this the real truth? Is there an element of truth in the above accusation?—Impossible. What do you think a Ministerial student should be? Well, too many of us think that one should be a young-faced, reserved being without feelings—who should not associate with “the sinful horde” and whose life is never enlightened with beautiful gay thoughts and in whose soul there is “no guile, no joy,” no fun, nor no nothing. If this be your standard—then you'll always be disappointed. Of course, a Ministerial student should be a conscientious, thoughtful Christian and a “real fellow” as well. It seems that we have by some ridiculous way arrived at the conclusion that a Ministerial student should be unlike the other men. What’s wrong for anyone is wrong for a Ministerial student—and vice versa. I believe that a Ministerial student should always be like other men unless the other men are wrong; that the stinging criticism of this band of men is unjust and decidedly uncalled for, and furthermore, is entirely false. Every day I hear some pure, innocent soul say, “he’s no better than I am.” Why should he be? We cannot rightfully establish a double set of morals. In our criticism of our fellow students, let us be fair and honest. Let us apply to ourselves the standard we use in measuring the Ministerial Band and see if we are in a position to judge them so harshly; for, in judging this set of men we are judging the men who make the “great Davidson Spirit” possible and the men who are working for the cause for which this college was founded. Well, the fact is—A.C.R.

Chaff

Santa Claus

What neckties are committed in thy name, and what cigars!

Father's Prayer

Christmas comes but once a year.—Amen.

From the looks of most members of the student body, Santa certainly had a large stock of loud socks, shirts, sweaters, neckties, handkerchiefs, and the like.

The Kitchen Mechanic

Bub Oeland will now drive us insane with his charming little agonizer, called: “My Swedie went away.”

“Ah, Mary, you're just as beautiful as you ever were and I have never forgotten you.”

“And you, Flake, are just as big a liar as ever and I believe you just the same.”

Our Monthly Book Review

For the month of January, our celebrated author, P. Cladius Birdsong, has written a play—a tragedy—in one act. This has been passed by the National Board of Review and the Committee on Attendance of the Lion Tamers’ Club; therefore, we deem it worthy of the honor to decorate the columns of our most extinguished periodicals. It follows:

BILLS IS BILLS
A Tragedy in One Act
By Will Billiams

Scene: A modern office, one-man type, on the thirty-umpth story of the South Carolina Sardine Trust Company Building, located at Corntassele’s Landing, S. C.

(As the curtain rises I. M. Broke, vice-president and general janitor of the Big Boston Baked Bean Beanery, takes his seat at a desk which is piled high with papers. Broke busies himself with some papers as the postman enters).

Postman: “Good morning, sir. You seem to have quite a large correspondence lately.” (Hands Broke a bunch of letters and walks out).

Broke: “Yes, I have lots of correspondence, but it is all one-sided. These are nothing but bills, bills, BILLS.”

Enter two collectors as telephone rings. Before either can be answered a Western Union boy hands him a telegram from Hardboiled & Son, requesting the payment of their bill at once. Answering the telephone, he finds out that the gas company is on its way to his home to get the meter. Upon looking up again, Broke sees three more men enter with bills in their hands as the stenographer comes in to remind him that it is the first of the month. Taking a hop, skip, and a jump from his seat, he goes through the window, head first, taking the whole sash with him. Above the sound of the shattering of the glass is heard the song, “In the Sweet Bye and Bye,” as sung by a bankrupt.

Curtain.

Moral: Don’t feed an alligator peanut hulls, because ice isn’t always what it’s cracked up to be.

The Purple Book
With Apologies to the Blue Book

The following has been copied from the Purple Book for the benefit of those students who are always bumming their way home. All who use this to advantage will kindly pay the Society Editor one dollar and fourteen cents in German marks.

National Highway No. 496853.
State Highway No. 26.
Miles designation.
00.0 Leave Jaybirdsville, traveling in a general direction till you come to a cross-roads. Take any of the four that you want to—just keep moving.
09.6 Town of Sedberry’s around stumps. Straight ahead.
43.1 City of Hate. This is where Piggy Martin lives, but you can’t help it. Turn with the Detour obstacles.
4063.8 Junction and other rapidly changing road. Don’t try to knock it down, as it has as yet been found to be indestructible.
196.7 State of Exhaustion. Hamlet of Tannery Flats. Keep your eye peeled for Buster Lawson. He’s the speed cop and the chief bootlegger. Don’t stop unless you want to buy, but if you get hauled up for speeding, just say, “How about a quart?” This has never failed to work. Keep moving. After a careful study of the surrounding animals and country, it will be noticed that in the hazy distance is the old red barn. Rest of the way—No instructions needed.

The Davidsonian has no New Year’s resolutions to make. 1924 is gone and 1925 is here, but the old world is rocking along just the same. We have attempted to give the news of Davidson College to our subscribers, and to give them the best possible service. We are not one hundred percent perfect; we have made mistakes which we hope have been rectified. Our aim during the coming year as during the past year is to give service and to keep The Davidsonian “The Livest Wire on the Hill.”

Mr. Duke’s bequest will do more to place Southern schools on a higher plane than any development of recent years. Duke University will remain as a monument to his beneficence, and as a proof that the South is unwilling to remain in the background. No longer will the North be able to laugh at Southern education. Despite the lack of culture which is claimed as an attribute of the South, no section of the country can boast of more eloquent orators or more gifted speakers than the Southland. With equal educational facilities and advantages, there is no limit to the possibilities of the South. Mr. Duke will long be remembered as the man who above all others helped the cause of Southern education. Money is by no means the greatest thing in life, but money, used properly and unselfishly for the benefit of humanity, can accomplish wonders.

Weather men and scientific journals bring reports that the winter of 1925 will be one of the coldest of recent years. No doubt with the low temperature will come an unusual amount of snow. What is to be the policy of the Davidson student body as regards this chance for turning some of our spirit into healthy exercise? Last year the only thing done with the snow besides a little individual snow-balling was the trampling of it into the dormitories. This will no doubt continue forever.

However, at Dartmouth the whole college lives for a week almost in the snow. A winter festival is had with skiing, ice-skating, and all other forms of out-of-doors sports. This is hardly practicable at Davidson but perhaps the custom of the University of North Carolina of several battles between the freshmen and sophomore classes might be adopted. Certainly, Carolina is no more a prep school than Davidson. Great times are had down there from the time the first flakes begin to fall until it’s all over. Perhaps it might bring some enjoyment here, develop some spirit among the student body, and create some excitement among the students.

L. D. W., Jr.