THE DAVIDSONIAN, JUNE 1, 1925

LIBRARY OF DAVIDSON COLLEGE ERECTED BY ANDREW CARNEGIE, 1910

SENIOR ORATIONS FEATURE
Literary Societies Hold Joint Program in Chapel
Hopkins, Wharton, Price, and Ray Contest for Senior Medal
HONORS DIVIDED
Award of Diplomas to be Made in Respective Society Halls

Tuesday evening at eight o'clock the four literary societies of the college, the Eumenean, Philanthropic, Pandeinic, and Metrophilian, meet together in Shearer Hall for the annual Senior Oratorical Contest and the award of inter-society medals. Contrary to the custom of the past two years, the awards of diplomas will not be made in the joint meeting, but will occur immediately after the announcement of the winner of the oratorical contest, in the two literary society halls, the Eumenean and Pandeinic societies meeting in the Eumenean hall, and the Philanthropic and Metrophilian societies meeting in the Philanthropic hall.

The four finalists in the oratorical contest were selected in a preliminary held early in January from among the best speakers of the Senior class. F. A. Hopkins, the first speaker representing the Eumenean Society, will speak on the subject, The Individual and the Nation. D. B. Wharton of the Metrophilian Society speaks next on the subject War Wisdom. H. B. Price, the third speaker, the Pandeinic representative, speaks on the subject Whither. The final orator of the evening is A. C. Ray, Jr., the second man from the Metrophilian Society to enter the finals, who speaks on the subject, The Clash of Color.

The Metrophilian leads with two men in the finals, the Eumenean and Pandeinic Societies being represented by one man each, and the Philanthropic failing to have a speaker. Three of the speakers, Hopkins, Ray, and Wharton, were finalists in the Junior contest last spring, Wharton winning. The fourth speaker, Price, did not go out for the Junior Speaking contest, but showed up well in the preliminaries this spring and was selected for the finals.

The Senior Oratorical Medal is given to the winner of the Senior Oratorical Contest annually by the college, and is the only medal given by the college for forensic attainments, all the other cups and medals being awarded by the Literary Societies.

Cups and Medals
Cups are awarded to the societies which have won the Junior-Senior and Fresh-Soph debates. Medals are awarded to the best speaker on each of the Junior-Senior teams, to the best speaker in the Fresh-Soph contests, to the winner of the Freshman declamation contest, to the winner of the inter-society essay contest, and to the intercollegiate debaters.

Pans and Phis Win
The Pandeinic and Philanthropic Societies receive the cups for winning the Junior-Senior debate, and the Fresh-Soph affair respectively. The winning team in the Junior-Senior contest was composed of H. L. Shaw, J. M. Garrison, and W. E. Milton, all Junior members of the Pandeinic Society. H. L. Shaw was elected medalist by the judges. E. T. Pullen won the Junior-Senior debater’s medal from the Metrophilian Society; A. Y. Bowie, the Eumenean, and B. U. Ratchford, the Philanthropic medal.

The Philanthropic Society’s winning team in the Fresh-Soph debate was composed of C. G. Davis, John Crinkley, and F. A. Phillips, C. G. Davis winning the inter-society medal offered to the best speaker. The Metrophilians and Eumeneans were eliminated in the preliminaries, and in the finals the Philanthropic team won from the Pandeinics by a two to one vote of the judges.

R. A. Miller of the Eumenean Society receives the Freshman Declaimer’s medal, winning in the final contest from Powell, Prichard, and Yonan. This was probably the most closely contested event of the year, there being very little difference in the quality of the work of the four men.

F. A. Hopkins of the Eumenean Society wins the Essayist’s medal offered jointly by the four literary societies, and at this time A. H. Hollingsworth will be awarded the Junior Orator’s Medal, which he won at Junior Speaking.

Intercollegiate Debaters
Nine intercollegiate debaters will be awarded debating emblems at this time. A. H. Hollingsworth, D. B. Wharton, and C. W. Williams represented Davidson in the debate with Emory which the Georgians won. Davidson successfully defended her side of the argument in the other two debates of the year, R. Z. Parker, A. Y. Bowie, and L. D. Wharton defeating Wake Forest, and H. L. Shaw, A. M. Martin, and B. U. Ratchford winning from the Presbyterian College of South Carolina. These nine representatives of Davidson on the platform will receive emblems.

After the announcement of the winner in the Senior oratorical contest, the members of the four societies will adjourn to their respective halls where the diplomas will be awarded to the Seniors who have completed the work necessary for graduation.

Award of Diplomas
Each society has elected a valedictorian and respondent who will speak at the individual society commencements. All alumni and friends of the societies are cordially welcomed to the graduation exercises.

The Metrophilian Society leads in the number of graduates with nine; the Eumeneans are a close second with eight Seniors who will receive diplomas. The Philanthropic Society graduates five men, and the Pandeinic four. Immediately after the conclusion of the literary society commencement comes the Senior class feature, details of which have not yet been announced.

The following men will receive diplomas:

Metrophilian
J. M. Carr, W. M. Gracey, T. A. Guiton, A. Patterson, A. C. Ray, Jr., W. G. Thomas, J. A. Thompson, M. W. Trawick, D. B. Wharton.

Eumenean
P. B. Freeland, J. D. Laws, F. A. Hopkins, A. M. Martin, A. N. Moffet, P. B. Patterson, W. W. Purdy, W. C. Ramsey.

Philanthropic
W. C. Baker, L. E. Calhoun, J. E. Holshouser, H. M. Wells, R. D. White.Pandemic L. B. Gibbs, C. M. S. McIlwaine, H. B. Price, R. W. Oeland.

CLASS DAY EXERCISES (Continued from page 1)

were also elected by the class, these men having shown their oratorical skill on previous occasions and are expected to repeat. W. W. Purdy has for four years consecutively been elected to the office of class poet. He will make his final contribution by reading aloud his new class poem during the class day exercises. This program, allowing an intermission for supper, will be followed at 8:00 p.m. by the Dramatic Club presentation.

LITERARY PROGRAM
All of Two Literary Societies Added During Stay of ’25
Pandemic Springs From Eumenean — Metrophilian From Philanthropic

During the year 1921-22, the Freshman year of the graduating class, two new literary societies, the Pandemic and Metrophilian, came into being. In the early days of the college, the literary societies held a premier place among the outside activities of a student. A man was known by the society to which he belonged, the Philanthropic Society (Phis) being composed largely of men from the state of North Carolina, and the Eumenean Society (Eus) consisting of students from outside the Tar Heel State. Competition in those days ran high, and centers of great interest to the older alumni are the two literary society halls. With the advent of and growing interest in athletics, and the other forms of extra-curricular activity, which are now legion, interest in the literary societies began to wane, and it was felt by certain members of the faculty as well as by Senior and Junior members of the old Eus and Phis that the creation of two new societies would increase the total membership and add zest to inter-society competition. The two societies therefore branched, in November 1921, and from the old Eumenean there sprang the Pandemic, and from the old Philanthropic the Metrophilian societies. The location from which a man comes has nothing to do with which society he shall join, but the competition among the societies is free. The results have justified the hopes of the founders, and the college generation of the class of 1925 has seen renewed interest in literary society work, debating, declaiming, essay writing, the practice of parliamentary law, etc. This interest has been augmented this year by the enthusiasm of Professor Wachter. The new societies have shown themselves to be up to the calibre of the old, the Metrophilian having furnished a number of inter-collegiate debaters and the Pandemic having won a large majority of the inter-society contests since its founding. It is hoped by the members of the two new societies that soon they will have society halls of their own, and will no longer have to sponge on the hospitality of their forebears. The future for the literary societies is very bright. Results both locally and in inter-collegiate debating contests during the past year have been most gratifying. If the next college generation will increase even more literary and forensic interest and work, much may be expected from the Eumenean, Philanthropic, Pandemic, and Metrophilian literary societies. It may be of interest to visitors to know that the chandelier which hangs in Phi hall is a gift to the college, and, being brought over from France, is supposed to be an exact imitation of the chandelier under which Napoleon Bonaparte was married. Woodrow Wilson, during his year at Davidson, was a member of the Eumenean society, and records of his work are kept in the college library by Miss Shaw, librarian.

AGNES SCOTT PRESIDENT (Continued from page 1)

of Georgia, he has written an account of the early history of that State. James Ross McCain was born in the year 1881. He is a graduate of Erskine College, Due West, S. C., of the class of 1900. He received his Master of Arts degree in the year 1906, and the degree of LL.B. in 1901. His degree of Doctor of Philosophy was received from Columbia University in 1914. In the years following his graduation from Erskine he was both a lawyer and a school teacher. In 1905 he founded the Darlington School in Rome, Ga., and was its head until 1915. This school is one of the best Preparatory Schools in the South, and it is to the credit of Dr. McCain that he should have been the founder and head of such an institution. His association with Agnes Scott College began in 1915. At that time he was registrar of the college and professor of Economics. Later he became Vice-President of the institution, and since May 25, 1923 has been President. Although he has only been head of the college for two years he has caused many changes and improvements to be brought about. As its efficient leader, Agnes Scott will doubtless continue and expand its great usefulness in the South. The exercises will begin at 12:15 p.m. Tuesday, and those who do not avail themselves of the opportunity of hearing the address to be made by our distinguished guest will undoubtedly miss one of the most worthwhile speeches to be delivered during the commencement of 1925.

Seniors Welcome Last Year’s Class

The class of '25 is glad to welcome back to the hill the many members of the class of '24 who, it is hoped, will return to renew old friendships at their alma mater. R. R. Jones, president of last year’s graduating class, has put forth every effort to ensure a reunion of the class, practically en masse. J. L. McLean has been handling a part of the arrangements and the merry helloes of the newest alumni will ring out joyously. A luncheon for the class, it is understood, is being arranged, where reminiscences, hopes, and plans can have free play. Twenty-five wishes to the class ahead of her a most happy and successful reunion.

Philanthropic Society Hall