6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, DECEMBER 10, 1925

Wachter Scores Big Success in Second Kipling Recital Before Local Audience

Ministerial Band Hears “Sock” Gibbs

The second appearance of Prof. Carl Wachter in a recital of Kipling’s poems, given in Shearer Hall, on Tuesday evening,
was greeted by an overflowing audience of students and townspeople. For over an hour, this master interpreter of the stirring
poems of the great English writer, held the undivided attention of those who listened. The “D” Club, under whose auspices
this entertainment was given, benefited to the extent of more than a hundred dollars. This is to be used as
a fund with which to pay for the new home of Felix, the college mascot, and to provide for his
maintenance.

Professor Wachter was introduced by Jim Hendrix, in a very glowing and complimentary speech. The speaker related in well-chosen words
the appreciation of the “D” Club for this kindness on the part of Professor Wachter, and told also of the
estimation in which he is held on the campus.

The program was made up of selected poems from Kipling, and two baritone solos, the whole being a delightful treat
for those who love the rugged and virile poetry of Kipling, the whimsical charm of his East Indian verses, and
the grandeur of his longer poems.

In an informal and unconventional manner, Professor Wachter briefly told of the program while seated in a large rocker on
the well-appointed stage. He drew the immediate attention and interest of the audience by his sketch of the poems which
he was to read. By this explanation of the purpose and style of the selections, the audience was able to
grasp more closely the fullness of them. He spoke in a very touching way of the illness of the poet,
who now lies seriously ill at his home in England.

The first selection, Gunga Din, was given with all the fire and animation of the old British soldier who originally
told it. The young British soldier was read with all the unconscious humor and bravado of the old guard. The
audience rocked with laughter during the rendition of this favorite.

Masefield’s Cape Horn Gospel, telling all the trials of the crew on their voyage, was received with cheers. The interpretation
of the old salt was excellent. A poem, given as an encore, telling of the world’s creation as seen by
a Frenchman, was a scream throughout. Professor Wachter lapsed into a Pierre of the Parisian boulevards in his shoulder shrugging
and grimacing, depicting the excitable Frenchie.

In every one of these poems, Professor Wachter’s interpretation of the spirit and tone was superb. His rendition of “If,”
in the manner of a father speaking to his son, was truly touching and inspiring. The Dedication to the Barrack
Room Ballads was given with all the fervor and vigor of Kipling himself.

The two solos, The Gypsy Trail, and On the Road to Mandalay, were well received, although the singer’s range was
not so good as when reading. The dialect was true to life in both selections.

The Ministerial Band met on Tuesday afternoon in Shearer Hall. Hollingsworth led in prayers. L. B. (Sock) Gibbs, ’25, now
studying at the Seminary, spoke quite appealingly on the subject of “Prayer.” In part he said: “The motive of prayer
is not getting things we want, but of coming into communion with God. We must not pray as hypocrites—their reward
is the approval of men; but if we pray in accordance with Christ’s teaching, we get another reward. Prayer should
be earnest and not repetition in so many words. Too much does the Lord’s Prayer come from our lips and
not our hearts. Christ teaches us to be persistent in prayer. We should pray unceasingly for things which we believe
to be in accordance with God's will. Others will see the result of secret prayer in our lives, which is
a reward. We must realize that Christ is the center of things, and we must put Him really in the
center of things. Do not skim the surface for then we will not get the power which is in prayer.”

As this was the time for the new officers to be installed, the reports of the outgoing chairmen were heard.
Don Stewart, for the Deputation Committee, reported that deputations had been sent, along with quartette, to Bethpage, Kannapolis, Shearer, Gillwood,
Hopewell, Hobson’s Church, and two to Mooresville. Williford, for the Devotional Committee, reported that morning watches and Bible work had
been carried on. Murchison, in charge of the Records, remarked upon the attendance. Goodykoontz, reporting for the Program Committee, reviewed
the speakers which the Band had heard. Davies, reporting for the Friendship Committee, said that two feeds had taken place.
President Bowie, in handing over the reins of office to A. B. Williford, reviewed past work and as a charge
to the incoming officers, read Paul’s charge to Timothy, from II Tim, 2:3-15. D. H. Stewart is the newly elected
vice-president and L. K. Pritchett the newly elected secretary.

President Williford then named the following committees, after which the meeting was dismissed with a song and prayer:

Program—D. H. Stewart, chairman, and J. M. Murchison and T. Preer.
Devotional—A. Y. Bowie, chairman, and H. G. Goodykoontz and C. F. McRae.
Deputation—C. G. Davis, chairman, and P. J. Garrison.
Music—W. H. Allison, chairman, and J. H. Caligan and C. K. Poole.
Statistics—L. K. Deck, chairman, and A. B. Claytor and W. K. Pritchett.

Professional Notices

DR. JOHN S. HOFFMAN
DENTIST
311, 312, 313, 314 and 315 Professional Bldg.
PHONES: Office, 5050 Residence, 1937.J
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Telephones
Office 3171 Res. 3419-W
12 South Tryon Street
Over Garibaldi & Bruns
DR. JAY R. McCABE
CHIROPRACTOR
Charlotte, N. C.
Neurocalometer Service

Dr. C. F. Smithson
DENTIST

Eyes Examined Glasses Fitted
F. C. ROBERTS
OPTOMETRIST
24 South Tryon St. Up Stairs
Telephone 3528
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

PHONE 24
ANY HOUR OF THE 24
Brick and Fancy Creams---Eskimo Pies
Mooresville Ice Cream Company Incorporated
“DE LUXE” ICE CREAM
Mooresville, N. C.

Dr. Arbuckle Attends Meeting in Chattanooga

Dr. H. B. Arbuckle, the president of the men’s organizations of Concord Presbytery, recently attended the meeting of the men
officially connected with the Southern Presbyterian Church. This meeting was held in Chattanooga, Tenn., and was called to devise means
to relieve this stress. The leading and best-informed men of the Church attended. Such men as Dr. Lilly, Dr. M.
E. Melvin, Dr. Revis, Dr. Homer McMillan, and Dr. Mauze appeared on the program. One of the most inspiring and
helpful of the addresses was the one delivered by Dr. Lovejoy, of the M. E. Church, North. His subject was
Stewardship, and was very helpful to those present. The census of opinion was that the financial condition could be relieved
by raising the budget. The budget to be raised is $1,750,000. Dr. Arbuckle reports a very enjoyable and helpful trip
and hopes to see the financial condition of the Church soon relieved.

DOCTOR EDWARD MACK
(Continued from page 1)
first, education of the young men of the colony, and second, to preserve and promote learning and truth among the
Indians.the years. “A sacrifice has to be made to get an education,” stated Dr. Mack. “In Great Britain it takes
$30,000 to educate a young man from the time he enters Eton until he graduates from Cambridge. The cost of
an education in one of the big universities in this country has been estimated at $1,500 a year. Not every
American father or boy is willing to sacrifice it, and happy are those who do, for no investment will make
a richer yield. The great men in life are the ones that have sacrificed in college.” Here Dr. Mack cited
the experiences of a certain wealthy man of the mid-east, who had the opportunity to go to college, but elected
a business course at Poughkeepsie. He has made a success in the business world, but he realizes that he is
not able to compete with the people that his rank calls for him to associate with, for they are on
a higher intellectual plane.

“College is the best place to drift along and loaf. It is a good place to drift with the stream.
How easy it is to go along the line where there is no resistance, but in after years the thought
is different, and to make a success the helm must be set into the winds, and kept there, in order
to make the voyage of knowledge and make the port of service. There is no thought of criticism against the
modern colleges, but every man who enters college places on his soul the beauty of election. Now, when a young
man comes here, there are many ways to go. The parting has grown into a multitudinous division. Of the men
that come to college and elect easy courses, only one in ten has the same chance for success in life
as the one who labors through the difficult fields. It is something for the man to have the determination to
become something through his hard labors.

“To quote Webster: ‘Training in certain subjects of general culture and after that general and progressive election.’ This is the
making of men. To see beyond the easy and popular out into the hills where men ask much of them
is the great thing. Sacrifice in education does not end with college days. Learning means hard labor. It is a
great thing to be a poor man, for they are wonderfully free. The greatest achievement in Korea is the translation
of the Bible into Korean. The nation will rejoice in the newness of light. May the great God give you
a spirit of sacrifice! Learning is sacrificial.”

BIGGEST CAROLINA PAPER
(Continued from page 1)
honors under the Fetzers, Davidson products.

In selecting the Wildcat leader The News and Observer said, “Coach Monk Younger, of Davidson, is chosen for the 1925
season. With these eleven men and Younger to coach them, no college could ask very much more to give it
gridiron power and autumnal publicity.

HE DESERVED IT
“How did you get that medal?”
“Heroism, lady; I took it away from a guy twice my size.”

Literary Societies in Final Forensic Battle
The finals in the Junior-Senior debates will be held December 21 between the teams of the Pandemic and Philanthropic Literary
Societies, on the question, “Resolved, That the Sterling-Reed educational bill should be enacted into law.” Caligan led the opening song,
after which Monk, Brack and Bowie read the scripture lesson, Matt. 6:5-15. McRae, Deck and Miller fulfilled the purpose of
the meeting, which was to investigate the financial condition of the Church and the United States should enter the Permanent
Court of International Justice. The talk for the afternoon was made by program included messages from some of the Secretaries
of Stewardship, Superintendents of Missions, Members of Executive Committee and Leaders of Men’s Organizations. The members of the Philanthropic team
are: A. B. Williford, C. G. Davis, and J. C. Barrington. The members of the Pandemic team are: W. E.
Milton, L. M. McCutchen, and G. M. Eddington. In the past it has been the custom to give one medal
to the best debater in each of the societies, but the custom has been changed and only one medal will
be given to the best debater of the four societies. This causes the medal to be more coveted, and makes
it mean more to the winner. Both of the affirmatives won in the preliminaries. In the new question, the Pandemic
has the affirmative, and the Philanthropic the negative. Both teams have begun work on their respective sides and the finals
give promise of being one of the most heated discussions that the forensic council has sponsored.

Endeavorers Have Lengthy Meeting
The subject of discussion at the last meeting of C. E. Training Class was in the form of a debate.
The subject of the query was: “Resolved: The Dixie Endeavor Magazine is Better for the Work of a Society Than
the Christian Endeavor World.” The affirmative was upheld by Davis and Covington and the speakers for the negative were Steele
and Graham. Both sides brought out some points in favor of their papers and all seemed interested. The lack of
time hindered a very lengthy discussion and after due consideration the judges handed down a decision in favor of the
negative. The meeting opened by the singing of a few familiar songs led by Lynch after which three members led
in prayer. At this point Covington took charge and called for the reading of the Scripture. Garrison favored the class
with a solo. Next in order was the appointing of the judges and officers of the debate. At the close
of the debate Covington urged every member to take renewed interest in the class and be present for the two
remaining classes before the holidays. The meeting was dismissed with the Mizpah Benediction.

YOU’LL ALWAYS FIND A GOOD SHOW AT THE VICTORY THEATRE
MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.
Weekly Programme
Wed., Dec. 9---Lost, a Wife, with Adolph Menjou.
Thurs. and Fri., 10th and 11th ---“Romola,” with Lillian and Dorothy Gish.
Sat., Dec. 12---“The Shock Punch,” with Richard Dix.
Mon. and Tues., Dec. 14 and 15---“Chickie,” with Dorothy Mackaill, Bosworth, Myrtle Steadman, Bowers, Brockwell.
Wed., Dec. 16---“Secret of Black Canyon,” with Dick Hatton.
Coming---“Never the Twain Shall Meet.”

FELLOWS, WE BELIEVE IN CO-OPERATION
We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest
The Sanitary Cafe
Mooresville, N. C.
Next door to Artcraft Theatre

PIEDMONT HAT CLEANERS
Shoe Shine Parlor
Pressing Club
Have your old hats cleaned and reblocked $.50. SAVE MONEY
No. 27 S. Tryon St.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”
PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS
VICTROLAS
RECORDS AND ROLLS
Phone 3818
SHEET MUSIC
Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments
OLDEST IN THE STATE
ANDREW MUSIC STORE
213 N. Tryon St.
