THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 9, 1925

INSTALL “Y” CABINET SUNDAY NIGHT

The installation of the new Y. M. C. A. Cabinet will take place Easter evening, April 12, in Shearer Hall.
Mr. Jackson will deliver the charge to the new president and cabinet. An address by Mr. Jackson is never disappointing
to anyone, and the Y. M. C. A. is quite fortunate in its selection of him as speaker for the
evening.

The new president, Hayden Hollingsworth, will step into that office of very high honor which has been so excellently occupied
by Harry Price for the past year. It is no exaggeration to say that no more splendid fellow has ever
held down the presidency of the Davidson Y. M. C. A. than Harry Price. He is all that he has
been written up to be and more. The other officers to be installed are W. T. Covington as vice-president and
W. A. Christian as secretary. In addition, the entire new Y cabinet will step into their new offices.

Special music will be furnished by the K. K. K. Quartet and it is a certainty that this feature will
be enjoyable by all present. Additional music will be supplied by several young ladies who will be visitors on the
hill at this time, and Piggy Martin gives the assurance that the audience will not be disappointed.

Dr. (Doc) LaFar, of the class of ’22, and captain of the football team of this year, together with W.
W. Moore, were among the alumni members of the O. D. K., back on the campus for the initiation feed.

COSTUMES
Wigs and Make-up for School and College Plays and Pageants
Special Rental Rates
VAN HORN & SON
921 Walnut St.
PHILA., PENNA.

We Invite Your Business
LARGE OR SMALL
INDEPENDENCE TRUST CO.
“ON THE SQUARE”
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Lizzie Young.

Religious Activities

Ministerial Band

Dr. R. H. McIlwaine, a missionary to Japan, who is in this country on a furlough, spoke to the Ministerial
Band last Sunday. His subject was, “Getting the right perspective of our relations to God.” In developing this, he first
explained its meaning and showed how men have been blessed by getting the right perspective, and of men’s failures because
they missed it. He told how this was illustrated in the lives of Moses and David, and showed how they
were overthrown in attempts about which they lost the right perspective of God. In concluding his talk, he said, “The
Word of God will never be overthrown. Our danger lies in disregarding His Word. To get the right perspective, we
must depend on God, and yield ourselves to God, for Him to direct and guide us.”

Volunteer Band

The Volunteer Band met in the Y gymnasium at 10:15 last Sunday morning. The band was very fortunate in having
Dr. McIlwaine, a missionary to Japan, to speak to them. Dr. McIlwaine took his subject from the twelfth chapter of
John. He emphasized the fact that total surrender is the only way to give the best service in the Lord's
Kingdom. The meeting closed with a hymn and prayer.

C. E. Training Class

The meeting Sunday was termed a triangle. There were three leaders, three songs, and three prayers; the leaders being: M.
A. Steele, R. A. Duke, and J. A. Ricks. This special service was scheduled for Easter, but, anticipating that many
of the fellows would be away from town Easter, it was moved up to last Sunday. Duke, Steele, Ricks, Milton,
and Currie gave short talks on: “What does Jesus mean to us?” “A house not built with hands,” “The resurrection
of Christ,” and “The resurrection proves Christ a Saviour, it is a glorious hope, it is a moral, and it
creates a bond of fellowship.”

DAVIDSON PLAYERS SCORE
(Continued from page 1)

of the interior of the home of Andrew Spriggins, miserly country storekeeper. At this stage of the play, the audience
was introduced to the large cast of characters, who played important parts in the comedy-drama. Beautifully costumed choruses and novelty
dances were featured at intervals on the program; but the chief interest of the performance rested on the rejuvenation of
Grandma Pepper, who started in the play as an antiquated and discouraged old woman. Becoming suddenly rich on oil stock,
the old grandmother boarded a ship for Europe and spent several months in Paris, where she had her face “skinned”
and her wrinkles removed. She returned to America a made-over woman—but finally realized that her experienced heart was too old
for her youthful body, and satisfied her longing for companionship in the love of her childhood admirer, Dr. Joy.

The play was staged under the auspices of the Davidson Civic League, and was presented under the direction of Miss
Viola Towler. The Davidson College symphony orchestra rendered a number of pleasing musical selections during the intermissions.

Mrs. Mary Vincent Fulton, of Danville, Va., is the guest of Misses Mary and Lizzie Young.

TOWN NEWS

Miss Randolph Venable, of Winthrop College, and Miss Hubbard of Converse, are spending the spring holidays with Miss Nina Holt
White.

The As You Like It Club held their bi-monthly meeting at the home of Mrs. Laird and her sister, Mrs.
Moffat, on last Friday afternoon. In place of the regular program was substituted a varied one which was original and
very interesting in the form of a Shakespearean contest.

On last Tuesday evening, the Thelemite Club met at the home of Prof. W. L. Porter. After the business was
disposed of, a musical program was enjoyed by all. Several selections were played on the piano by Miss Catherine Dalton,
a graduate of Flora MacDonald College, after which Mrs. J. P. Williams rendered a few songs. Refreshments were in the
form of a box supper. These boxes were chosen by a contest which was won by Prof. E. J. Erwin
and Mrs. J. P. Williams.

Mrs. Hengeveld and her daughter, Miss Hargrove, are visiting at the home of Mrs. Hengeveld’s son, F. W. Hengeveld, of
Davidson.

Miss Randolph Venable, of Winthrop, and Miss Nell Hubbard, of Converse, were guests for several days of Miss Nina Holt
White.

Library News

The Dark Forest, by Hugh Walpole—“To say that this book is remarkable is only to lay hold on a convenient
word expressive of at least a part of the sensation the story produces. Here is a book for which many
of us have dimly waited, a book that transcends the outer facts and reveals the inner significance of war. THE
DARK FOREST is a love story of unusual beauty as well. Who, having read it, will forget this book, at
once awful and beautiful? It must be read, for neither quotation nor description is capable of giving more than a
bare hint of the nobleness, the intensity of this work of art so deeply rooted in reality.”—New York Times.

Woodrow Wilson, The Man, His Time, and His Task, by William Allen White—“This book will try to tell the story,
as simply as may be told, of a man, his time, and his task. His partisans have idealized his virtues
and so have sought to create a Heaven-sent Messiah to redeem aWicked world from iniquity. His enemies—alas, they have seen
his weakness through the green and red glasses of envy and hate, and a fin made of him. He was
neither god nor frost of the cloister upon his public manner, with an academic respect for facts and a Calvinistic
addiction for digesting the facts into his own God-given truth. On the surface, he was half or two-thirds Irish and
so turned to his friends a gay and lovely face. But the dour Scot, big and dominant inside him, turned
to his adversaries a cold and implacable heart that transformed even the most amiable of his opponents into ardent foes
with a lust for torture.”—From the Introduction.

Heirs of the Incas, by Carroll K. Michener—“In the celebrated domain of the old Inca empire and the melancholy souvenirs
of Inca civilization, Mr. Michener has discovered much of unusual interest. He tells the story of his travels in this
“cradle of the South American people” with humor and keen appreciation of the beauties of the Andean Country, the strange
types of people, and the extraordinary combination of modern commercialism, medieval ideas, and general slovenliness that flourish there.”

Among the foreign books which have been added to the library are the following:
Madam Bovary, by Flaubert.
Salambo, by Flaubert.
The Temptation of St. Anthony, by Flaubert.
Crime and Punishment, by Fyodor Dostoevsky.
Plays of Edmond Rostand.

Hengeveld and her granddaughter Kauffelt, second critic.

The society is expecting to have a superman—some sort of old striped devil they have elected president of the Glee
Club for the coming year at a meeting last Monday.

Middle-aged gentleman with the hoar- eacranverai, Literary Societies.

The regular meeting of the Philanthropic Society was held April 2. There was nothing of importance that came before the
society. The impromptu debate was not held, but the regular one was, the subject being Resolved, That the disputes between
capital and labor should be settled by compulsory arbitration. All four of the speeches showed that the men knew their
subject well and that they had put considerable time in preparation. The decision of the committee was 2 to 1
in favor of the affirmative.

After the result of the debate was announced, the treasurer made his report, which was very pleasing to all members
present. He reported that the note which has been hanging over the society has been paid, and that the annual
interest of the $500 endowment of the society has been paid into the treasury. In concluding his report, he said
that the society, besides being entirely free of debt, had a neat sum in its treasury.

At the meeting of the Pandemic Literary Society on Tuesday night, the election of officers was held. A. H. Hollingsworth
was chosen president; J. Willard Keerans, vice-president; D. Hancock, secretary; J. M. Garrison, treasurer; P. J. Garrison, sergeant-at-arms; F. T.
Franklin, first critic; and R. D. Kauffelt, second critic. These men have all displayed excellent ability along literary lines and
the society is expecting to have a very successful year under their leadership.

Hollingsworth is one of the leaders of campus life on the Hill and stands for the higher things in life.
At the election of the officers of the Y. M. C. A. cabinet a few days ago, he was chosen
president. The others also are interested in the various activities on the campus.

The meeting of the Eu Society last week was featured by the try-outs for the Fresh-Soph debate. The society was
called to order and led in the devotionals by President Purdy. Following this was an oration by J. D. Laws
on Otto Von Bismarck. The query for the trials was, Resolved, That capital punishment should be abolished. The following men
spoke, all taking the affirmative side of the question: T. G. McCutcheon, J. P. Gladney, V. S. Broyles, R. A.
Duke, W. H. Lynch. After all had made their speeches, a committee composed of Williams, Barr, and Engle selected McCutcheon,
Duke, and Lynch to represent the society in this debate. Immediately before adjournment, Mr. Barr proposed that the constitution be
amended so that a requirement for a certificate would be that the candidate go out for either an intercollegiate or
an intersociety speaking contest. No action was taken on the motion.

Wilson and Hudson
D. G. Wilson, of Atlanta, Ga., was elected president of the Glee Club. At the same time, Frank Hudson, of
Chattanooga, Tenn., was also elected manager of the Glee Club. These two men were selected for their ability that has
already been demonstrated and their leadership on the campus. They will prove capable leaders for the coming year and plan
to lead the club in a successful year.

Wilson has been a prominent leader on the campus since his first year. He has been elected vice-president of the
rising Senior class and is popular among the student body as well as his classmates. He is chairman of the
Junior Speaking Committee and has done faithful work in that line. He is a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity.
Hudson is also a member of the rising Senior class. He has been a member of the Court of Control
for two years and is one of the assistant cheer-leaders. He is a member of the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity.

Tell a man there are 249,453,247 stars and he will believe you, but if he reads “fresh paint” he will
make a personal investigation.

McNeill—Were you sick abed yesterday?
McClary—Naw, sick at school.

Tartarin of Tarascon, by Alphonse Daudet.
Heliodorus, An Aethiopian Romance.
The Cloud That Lifted, by Maurice Maeterlinck.

BEAUTY CONTEST!
After years of preparation and valuable experience, Mr. Frank Hudson announces that he will be able to conduct a well-established
and perfectly organized Beauty Contest during the Easter holidays. Mr. Hudson has seen, according to an interview with him Wednesday
night, all of the most beautiful women of the South and his ranking of the girls who visit Davidson will
no doubt be the crowning glory of the week. Mr. Hudson says that all applicants for the Beauty Queen Contest
must apply to him not earlier than 1 a.m. of any of the Junior Speaking nights. He will give them
his most careful attention.

Yellow Cabs Are Good Cabs
Just Phone 24 Any Hour of the 24
Charlotte to Davidson or Davidson to Charlotte
YOU'LL FIND THEM ALWAYS ON THE JOB
Look For the Black Top
Wiley Service Yellow Cab Co.
Look For Our Private Phone in Brown’s

One question that always arises in the mind of every serious thinking college man is, “What am I going to
do after graduation or during vacation?” This is an important question, worthy of serious consideration. In a very definite way,
the life insurance business offers you the opportunity for success. In no field is there a greater chance for the
college man. Write to us for particulars.

PILOT LIFE INSURANCE CO.
Greensboro, N. C.
A. W. McALISTER, PRESIDENT
H. B. GUNTER, Vice-Pres. and Agency Mgr.
