4 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 12, 1925

The Davidsonian

Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of Southern Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES:
10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the Collegiate Year

All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from an unknown source will not be published.

CHALMERS M. S. McILWAINE........Editor
KENNETH S. McALPIN........Business Manager

Editorial Staff
C. F. SMITH........Managing Editor
W. E. MILTON........Assistant Managing Editor
C. F. MONK........Assistant Managing Editor
A. F. SIMPSON........Peanut Parcher Editor
H. B. PRICE........Assistant Editor
W. H. BRAN........Associate Editor
H. L. SHAW........Assistant Editor
G. D. ROGERS........Alumni Editor
T. D. WHARTON........Athletic Editor
H. D. BURKE........Advertising Manager
A. THOMPSON........Circulation Manager
Y. ALEXANDER........Assistant Circulation Manager
T. C. McSWAIN........Subscription Manager
G. SHUMMER........Bookkeeper
J. M. GARRISON........Service Manager
W. H. LYNCH........Correspondent

Reporters’ Club
L. B. GIBBS, President
J. M. GARRISON
D. G. WILSON, Vice-Pres.
J. P. GLADNEY
A. Y. BOWIE, Sec.-Treas.
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH
C. R. ANDERSON
P. F. APPLEBY
J. D. W. AUSTIN
W. H. LYNCH
C. L. BRAGAW
R. H. McILWAINE
V. S. BROYLES
J. E. MOORE
D. M. CALHOUN
C. C. MURCHISON
W. T. COVINGTON
F. P. O'CONNOR
W. T. DAVIS
R. B. PARKER
G. M. EDDINGTON
E. K. REGEN
F. T. FRANKLIN
J. B. THOMPSON
L. L. DECK
W. S. WOODS

EDITORIAL

JACK MILLER

Death has once again visited the Davidson student body, and has left in its wake a void that cannot be filled. Last Friday, J. W. Miller, known to all here as Jack, died quietly at home. No one realized his serious condition when he left Wednesday afternoon, happy in the thought that he was going home. He seemed better, cheered up by the fact. Forty-eight hours later he lay dead at home. He had gone home. His cheery smile and pleasant “hello” are missed on the campus. For three years he had been making friends at Davidson, and in his passage to the world beyond, he leaves at Davidson none but friends. His influence still lives on. Davidson is a better place for the three years he spent in her halls; and that is the true measure of success in life. The student body extends its sympathy to his family, happy that they knew Jack, grieved because he is gone.

Before the next issue of The Davidsonian the first elections will have been run off. The students will have selected one of their leaders for the coming year. May their selection be a wise one.

Three more weeks till the one and only Junior Speaking of the year. Twenty-six is working hard, and a great time is assured all who stay for the festivities. The call of home will be too strong for many of the students.

Whatever may be started for the improvement of the campus, it cannot be carried out successfully without the co-operation of the students. It should be a matter of pride to see that the campus is improved. Without co-operation, however, the grass along the front campus will never get a chance to come up. Let’s use the paths wherever possible, and at least respect the barriers which have been put up.

The work of improving the campus is going on full tilt. An attempt is being made to replace the grass which has been worn down, and put the campus back in its old condition. Grass seed has been sown along the whole front of the campus on Main Street. Wire fences have been put up to give the grass a chance at the outset. The wire so far has merely made the student body go over rather than take a few steps out of the way to use the path.

With all the diverse things which fill this universe of ours, there is nothing which interests us so much as ourselves, men and women. Human nature is of prime interest and importance, and yet how few of us are really able to interpret it. All of us, however, appreciate to some extent true portrayals of the human emotions, pictures of the souls, of beings like us. No man has portrayed the underlying sameness of human nature, despite its many variations due to differences in station and environment, and above all to that underlying spark which makes man an individual, more vividly than Rudyard Kipling. Kipling, in his poems as well as in his prose, has bared the souls of men and women. He is a poet of the people, and his simple democracy has won him a place in the hearts of readers all over the globe. His best work was done in India, where East meets West, and there Kipling acquired his world outlook. He sings of everyday men and women in every station of life. His poems sound a keynote of democracy and equality.

The Equality of Man
“Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet,
Till Earth and Sky stand presently at God's great Judgment Seat;
But there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor Birth,
When two strong men stand face to face, though they come from ends of the earth!”

“For the Colonel’s Lady an’ Judy O'Grady
Are sisters under their skins!”

Mother Love
“If I were damned of body and soul
I know whose prayers would make me whole,
Mother o’ mine, O mother o’ mine!”

The Secret of His Hold on Our Hearts
“Lo, I have wrought in common clay
Rude figures of a rough hewn race
Prof. Wachter, Will Neal and Mrs. Baker March 20. Don’t Miss Them

Kipling’s Songs of Real Men and Women
His Original Expression of Fundamental Human Nature
“They passed one resolution: ‘Your sub-committee believe
You can lighten the curse of Adam when you've lifted the curse of Eve.
But till we are built like angels, with hammer and chisel and pen,
We will work for ourselves and a woman for ever and ever, amen!’”

Life is Not All Happiness
“A fool there was and he made his prayer (Even as you and I!)
To a rag and a bone and a hank of hair (We called her the woman who did not care)
But the fool he called her his lady fair-- (Even as you and I!)”

The Boaster
“If you stop to consider the work you have done
And to boast what your labor is worth, dear,
Angels may come for you, Willie, my son,
But you'll never be wanted on Earth, dear!”

“Tommy”
“For it’s Tommy this, an’ Tommy that, an’ ‘Chuck ’im out, the brute!’
But it’s ‘Saviour of ’is country’ when the guns begin to shoot.”

At the Top of the Scale
“Ave you ’eard o’ the Widow at Windsor
With a hairy gold crown on ’er ’ead?
She ’as ships on the foam—she ’as millions at ’ome,
An’ she pays us poor beggars in red.”

It’s the Heart That Counts
“The tumult and the shouting dies;
The Captains and the Kings depart:
Still stands Thine ancient sacrifice
An humble and a contrite heart.
Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet,
Lest we forget—lest we forget!”

FROM OUR REPRESENTATIVE IN CHINA

Hangchow, China, January 27, 1925.

To All Davidson Students:

I should have written this letter a long time ago but kept putting it off until I had made my expected trip to Peking, so that I could have more to tell. The latter, however, has failed to materialize because it is almost impossible to get to the capital: reason—war. Even then it is more or less risky after one gets to Peking.

I want to thank you all for the fine Xmas check. I shall buy the wheel at once, and am sure that it will prove of lasting value: a wheel is always necessary and useful in the Orient. With a distance of seven miles to the city—the rickshaw fare amounts up if you have to travel very often.

Now for the college. It seems hard to realize that I have been here five months—and still many things are a long way from straight in my head. One’s characteristics have to get adjusted as well as other things—and that’s quite a job. The college as you know is situated on a hill immediately overlooking the Hanchow River (Ts Kang)—about a half mile in width. From the river to the top of our hill is a rise of five hundred feet—and that means that one’s legs keep in pretty good condition. The college itself consists of two dormitories holding a hundred boys each; an administration building; a chapel; and an athletic field. The latter has been hollowed out of anadjacent hill, and is in excellent condition. Behind the college buildings are the foreign residences—extending almost to the top of the hill—and ending up with the college observatory. We are out in the country, of course, with plenty of fresh air (something one learns to appreciate in China)—and it is a walk of five to seven miles to get to the mission stations in the city of Hangchow. With the exception of about a mile to the suburb of Zakow, where one can take the train, it is a walk through crowded and narrow streets, overflowing with business, rickshaws, germs, and smells. Some of the streets are so narrow that they are one-way streets: one rickshaw has to wait till the other one gets through!

The Chemistry department at the present time has only one laboratory in which to perform its experiments. That means that Middle School, General, Qualitative, Quantitative, and Organic are all in the same room. Sometimes it’s not so convenient, but at other times it’s not so bad. We are hoping soon to have our science building, and then we will have a whole floor. At present we really don’t need more room (or don’t deserve it) for we only have about thirty-five men taking Chemistry. With Dr. Fitch working for more dormitories to room more boys, we are surely hoping to increase our enrollment. The coming term I will have all the work in the department because my assistant is leaving and going to Shantung province to take charge of a Middle School up there. Teaching four courses in Chemistry will be a little more than I bargained for—with me not knowing very much about any of them.

It is hard to give a picture of China or of the Chinese as they are. I have found the students vastly similar in many respects to American students. On the whole, they are much more in earnest about their work. They have to be, for you will remember that they have to take their lectures in either Chinese or English—and equally well in both. That means that every student in the college takes about ten hours of language a week! Everybody wears long gowns, of course, and after all, it is a right good custom. In the winter time, their padded clothes are much warmer than our crazy ones that open at the neck. They have to be warmer for the Chinese are not acquainted with a warm room—much less a fire in their homes. In fact, they don’t like to go into a foreign house in the winter time for they get too hot. All the college buildings are without heat. Think of Davidson College carrying on its work with every window in the dormitory open, and snow a foot deep outside. It seems to me that I remember classes being dismissed when there was no fire in the rooms!

Athletics? No can do. Chinese just weren't made for athletics. They are trying hard but insist on playing in their long gowns! You know it is quite a comedown to have to throw a ball when you have never thrown one in your life. Very few can throw a ball—and it’s a slow job to teach them. And then the slang that we use in connection with our athletics is most confusing. Try to explain to someone who never saw a baseball game why they must not run from “first” to “second base” when the “batter” “knocks” a “fly” to the “fielder.” Then try to explain why the “runner” is “out” when the ball touched the “base” and didn’t touch him—and you have some of the difficulties of “Chinese” baseball. They are learning rapidly, though, and by the time our grandchildren are in college, I doubt not but that China and Uncle Sam will be playing intercollegiate baseball! Football (American football) just won't go. There is one Chinese American football team in China and Jimmy Graham (V. P. I.) has that. He is a colleague of Tex Tilson’s, and has got a pretty good team—but it’s worse than pulling eyeteeth (especially when you remember that a larger proportion of boys like volleyball best) to get them to come out. We had thirty minutes of compulsory athletics five evenings a week last term, and more students were interested than ever before. Next term we are hoping to do something along the same line.

China is a strange mass of incongruities. It is a civilization that has developed absolutely independently of anything that has touched European learning, and it is vastly different. Little things like standing your umbrella upside down, or soldiers carrying umbrellas, or beginning your meal with sweets and ending with a bowl of rice, or saying the blessing in the middle of a meal instead of at the beginning, really don’t matter after you get used to them. But when you try to plant a foreign way of doing things in place of the old way, there is likely to be friction. And it is from too much of this attempt, combined with other things, that is causing the anti-foreign feeling. You can find every nationality in the world in Shanghai; and Americans are no better than Russians—to a Chinese: they are all foreigners and are seeking for the dismemberment of his country. It is only by continued work that we are trying to show them that not all Americans are in China for what they can make—but for what they can give. With the coming of the new civilization, there must be the coming of a workable religion—and Buddhism and Confucianism with all their good points, and with their still firm hold on the people, don’t work. The Chinese know they don’t work, and are slowly (but how very slowly) looking for something better. The question is, “Where’s it coming from?”

Wish that some in the Senior class would consider coming over for next year. I expect we could get a job for you.

Sincerely yours,
(Signed) W. M. Cox, Jr.

ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA
(According to our friend, Octavus Roy Cohen)

Dramatis Personae
Antony J. Chew—Gentleman of color from Rome (Georgia).
Cleopatra Amaryllis Jones—Belle of Bummin’ham.
Florian Slappey—Disappointed wooer of Cleopatra.
Messenger Boy.

Scene: In Bummin’ham, way down in Alabam’.

Scene I—In the parlor of Cleopatra Amaryllis Jones. Cleo and Antony enter in great state, both sartorially correct. Antony disports a gay, lavender-tinted raiment, with a yellow rose in his lapel. Cleo is wearing a flame-colored gown that contrasts favorably with her ebony-hued complexion. The Sears & Roebuck Victrola in the corner plays softly the seductive strains of Red Hot Mamma.

ANT. Gal, you sho’ does look swell in them clo’es which you has on. Ef I an’ you don’ git th’ grand prize at The Sons an’ Daughters of I Will Arise dance tonight, I suttin’ly is mistook.

CLEO. Fumadiddles what you say, Ant’ny.

ANT. An’ does we win the grand prize, does I gits took in t’ the Mos’ Royal an’ Benign Fo’th Order. Hot tripe! Wait til’ you sees sweet papa in them red velvet robes, holdin’ that big so’d.

CLEO. Boy, you don’ look so turribly unswell tonight. Where at did you git that rose?

ANT (smiling pacifically)—Sis’ Callie Flukes pinned this heah blossom on mah coat dis mawnin’ when I pays up mah bo’d bill fuh two months in advance.

CLEO. I ‘lowed some o’ them high browns whut live at Rome, Jawga, has sent it. Does you really love me, Ant’ny? (Antony embraces her).

ANT. You's th’ fondes’ thing I is of, Cleopatry. They aint a gal in Bummin’ham as whut kin hol’ a shine t’ you. You suttin’ly ought to git a job with th’ Midnight Movie concern. You has got th’ face an’ th’ figger. Does you crave movie actin’?

CLEO. No, honey, I craves to settle down with you in Rome. (She smiles coyly at her hero.)

ANT (in alarm)—Naw—I means I don’t crave t’ go back t’ Rome jes’ now. I hopes—(the doorbell rings and Cleo goes to the door where a messenger boy hands her a telegram.)

CLEO. It’s fuh you, Ant’ny. I hopes aint nobody daid. (Antony reads slowly, scratching his head).

ANT. Sufferin’ tripe! Hit’s frum Fulvia!—An’ she says she’s comin’—

CLEO. Whoz-all’s this Fulvia?

ANT. She's mah wife, an’ Ise got t’ make a mean gitaway fo’ she— Git me told this ve’y instant.

CLEO. ’Splain yo'self cuhlud man, an’ I don’ mean maybe.

ANT. Hot Mamma! Look heah! She says that she’s done got a divo’cement frum me, an’ Ise a free man. Oh Bebby! (He dances around the room). Never did like that woman no-how. She thought Rome wuzn't good ‘nuff fuh her.

CLEO. Then you means you and me is goin’ t’ git ma’ied?

ANT. Ah don’t mean nothin‘ else but ’cept.

CLEO. Then is I goin’ t’ return this heah Woolwo’th joolry to Florian Slappey, ’thout no delay. He’s flatter than a busted aig. Is we goin’ to eat at Bud Peagler’s, Ant’ny? I craves some ba-becue.

(Continued on page 5)