THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1925

Prof. — “Now Mr. Westbrook, how much are we going to beat Furman?”
Westbrook—“Seven to nothing.”
Prof.—“Thank you sir; I thought you’d know.”

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298

ARTCRAFT THEATRE
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Home of Good Pictures
C. I. GRESHAM, Owner

DONNELL N. C. State, Guard

Players Defeat Charlotte Aggregation
Davidson Players Drop But One Match to Fast Country Club Team

Open Now for Service
HOT DOGS AND ALL GOOD THINGS TO EAT
CASHION CAFE
Davidson, N. C.

The Davidson varsity tennis team defeated the representatives of the Charlotte Country Club on last Friday by the overwhelming score of 6 to 1. The matches were played on the elegant courts of the Charlotte Country Club, and a large audience witnessed the games. The courts were in excellent shape, and presented quite a contrast to what the Davidson boys were accustomed to play on.

HUNGRY??
Home Cooked. Those tasty eats and delicious Punch for feeds and parties
SCHOFIELD (Miss Minnie’s) TEA ROOM

The outstanding stars of the contest were the two rival captains, Tommy Hawkins of Charlotte and Leighton McCutcheon of Davidson. The game played by Dick Carr was worthy of special mention also. Davidson took all but one of the matches, captain McCutcheon losing to Captain Hawkins by a score of 6-3, 2-6, 6-1. This match was a neck-in-neck struggle, in which Hawkins finally managed to win out. Dick Carr beat his opponent by a score of 6-0, 6-2. It was evident from the beginning that Carr would be the victor, and at no stage of the game was he in danger. W. A. Alexander, Mac Lockhart, and Wood Brown, all of Davidson, defeated their men with apparent ease.

College Jewelry
Watches and Clocks
Eversharp Pencils
Stationery
Parker Fountain Pens
Pennants and Pillows
Athletic Supplies
Bradley Sweaters
W. S. HENDERSON, Jeweler.
DAVIDSON, N. C.

In the double matches Davidson was also victorious. The two doubles teams of Davidson were composed of Brown and Lockhart, and McCutcheon and Carr. The latter team had a close match, but finally emerged with the big end of the score. In this match the playing of Dick Carr was well-nigh sensational. He played a beautiful driving and net game, and was undoubtedly the star of this match. This will probably be the last tennis match of the season for the Davidson team.

THE GAS BAG, $8.00
“YES, WE ARE C’LLEGIATE”
“Collegiate, Collegiate, Yes, we are Collegiate—”
You've heard that snappy fox trot song! Well, this Gas Bag shoe is for the boys who dress the part of Collegians. Wide toe, short vamp, smart style in light mellow tan. Collegiate? Yes! $8
TATE-BROWN COMPANY
KEERANS & KING, Agents

SPORTOGRAPHS
By Ernest Milton

Fight ’em, Wildcats; fight ’em!

This afternoon decides whether the Wildcats shall battle Carolina as a contender for the state championship, or whether they will meet the Tar Heels in a contest that has no bearing on the state title.

The thousands of people who are watching the little red and black jersey-clad boys fight for Davidson are going to watch a determined and dogged fight on the part of Davidson.

Not only are the Wildcats fighting today under the harboring wings of their own dormitories, but they are on their own grounds, which gives them a decided advantage. When the whistle blows eleven snarling Wildcats will be waiting to scrap and claw their way through the heavy State team, with many more of the same variety purring on the sidelines, anxious to get into the game.

But, we cannot forget that in front of these eleven Wildcats are eleven hefty players, and before the Wildcats can make much progress, seven of these big boys will be shoved aside by such men the size of Tom Baker and Harry Vance. It has been done, though, and whether defeated or victorious today, these eleven forwards of Davidson are going to show their mettle. They haven't forgotten the 10-10 tie at Pinehurst last year. Will today’s fracas be a duplicate, or which team is going to win? MostSport scribes over the state seem to think that Davidson will win on the basis of past performances of both teams this season. But we are taking such predictions with a grain of salt. As your writer said last Saturday, “I don’t like to make predictions about Davidson; you never can tell what she is going to do.” It is interesting to note outsiders' observations sometimes. One sports writer in his comments Monday said: “The Davidson-Furman game at Charlotte Saturday left the following distinct impressions: The Purple Hurricane has the strongest line in the Carolinas; Vance, of the Wildcats, is one of the greatest forwards in the South; the Davidson fighting tradition was amply held up; and the ‘crazy quilt’ formation is a beautiful piece of press-agenting.” To all that we agree. All the Wildcats could hope for last Saturday, even though they gave their best, was an even break against Furman, but state papers seemed to be expecting the little Presbyterians to win. For instance, one paper stated that “Davidson’s defeat was rather discouraging to North Carolina football enthusiasts. It was a hard game to lose. Davidson, along with Wake Forest, is the best North Carolina has.” We appreciate the latter, and today is deciding just how good Davidson is. We sincerely hope that writer will not be disappointed at the end of the season.

Match of the fall, and a fine schedule is now being arranged for next spring by Captain McCutcheon.

(On BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE JAKE MARTIN, Prop.)

FELLOWS
We are always ready to serve those delicious meals. Come in any time.
The New York Cafe
Charlotte, N. C.

W. STUDDERT
N. C. State, End
Big end on Coach Tebel’s team who has shown varsity calibre.

Furman Statistics Don’t Look so Bad...
Below are given the statistics of the Furman-Davidson clash in Charlotte last Saturday, and the final net gain of ground shows up Davidson well. Where Furman gained was in her punting, averaging five more yards on her 13 punts, for a total gain of 65 yards over Davidson. The Furman backs were thrown for heavy losses which counteracted their gain from scrimmage as will be seen from the following:

First downs, Furman 9, Davidson 4.
Ground gained from scrimmage, Furman 121 yards; Davidson 59 yards.
Ground lost from scrimmage, Furman 34 yards; Davidson 8 yards.
Net ground gained from scrimmage, Furman 87 yards; Davidson 51 yards.
Pass completed, Furman, six out of 20 tries; Davidson, five out of twelve attempts.
Ground gained from (Continued on page 3)

Columbia Theological Seminary
Columbia Theological Seminary is an approved seminary for ministers in the Southern Presbyterian Church. It is the official seminary for the Synods of South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Mississippi. The faculty is composed of men who are chosen for pre-eminence in Christian character, in scholarship, in approved ability as moulders of thought, and as leaders of men. The student body is composed of picked men from the choicest Christian homes of the South. Their motives, ability, and character have been approved by their home church, presbytery, and college. These young men come to the seminary to receive special training for leadership in the most important sphere of human experience. Columbia Seminary offers to its students thorough training, sympathetic fellowship, helpful co-operation, practical experience, and a true conception of the meaning of service.

RICHARD T. GILLESPIE, Pres.

Mooresville Enterprise
MOORESVILLE, N. C.
Printed every Thursday.
Job printing in all commercial lines.
Advertising rates and prices on work furnished on application.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
THE SHOP WHERE SERVICE IS FOREMOST
OUR AIM IS TO PLEASE

WE SELL
Spalding, Wright & Ditson, Goldsmith, Reach, O’Shea Knit Goods.
Myers Hardware & Sporting Goods Co.
18 East Trade St.
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE — THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N. C.
30 W. FIFTH ST.

“PROTECTION PLUS SERVICE”
W. E. PRICE
MASSACHUSETTS BONDING AND INSURANCE CO.
OCEAN ACCIDENT AND GUARANTEE CORP., LTD.
INSURANCE AGENCY
GENERAL AGENTS
PHONE 932
CHARLOTTE