“THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 19, 1925

Staple and Fancy Groceries
Quantity ; Quality ; Service
H. M. JOHNSTON
Phone 20

Sweet Young Thing—"I'd like to buy a petticoat.”
Floor Walker—"Antique department on third floor, Miss.”

Bohannon—"When you were in Europe, Joe, did you go up the Rhine?”
McConnell—"Sure, Fine view from the top too.”

“I call my girl ‘Grapefruit.’”
“Why?”
“Because every time I squeeze her she hits me in the eye.”

Wrigley’s increases the flow of saliva and relieves that “stuffed” feeling. Clears the throat, steadies nerves, and sweetens the breath.
Cleans teeth too.

The bootleggers' national anthem is “Coming thru with the Rye.”

“Niggah, how come you takin’ dat razor to de dance?”
“Dis is gwine to be a cuttin’ dance.”

Little Spee McConnell’s weekly bedtime story:
Once upon a time there was a girl, she was the only daughter of the village dog-catcher. One day a
slick city fellow came in town, and took her to dinner at a cafe. While there, he committed a terrible
error; he fed the dog-catcher’s daughter on raw meat. She immediately became sick—had a terrible attack of hydrophobia. The next
day she died. The city fellow should have fed her on liver—for raw meat makes dog-people wild.

When in Charlotte take your meals at the S&W Cafeteria

Merchants & Farmers National Bank
Charlotte, N. C.
4% paid on Savings Accounts and Certificates of Deposit
Checking Accounts Invited

BLANK VERSE
“The wind is blowing through the trees;
The old gray mare is on her knees;
I feel quite like a piece of cheese—
I have a cold, and cannot sneeze.”

FAMOUS HEARTS

Those Frozen Eclairs!! Um! Um! Where Do They Come From?
The Selby Ice Cream Co.
STATESVILLE, N. C.

NICHOLSON FURNITURE CO.
Statesville and Taylorsville, N. C.
“Not Cheap Furniture, but Good Furniture Cheap”
We furnish homes complete.

Phonograph Records 50c each
WHITE DRUG COMPANY
Dealers in Drugs, Medicines, Stationery, Toilet Articles
Norris’, Whitman’s and Hollingsworth’s Candies
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY

The famous word quip:
“That that is is that that is not is not that is it is it not,” should read:
“That that is, is; that that is not, is not; that is it, is it not?”

Heard at the asylum:
Where you going?
Down to the river to sleep.
Sounds fishy—where you going to sleep down there?
In the river bed.
What are you going to use for cover?
Sheets of water.
Has the bed of the river got any springs?
No, but there’s plenty of current in it to make it light—the river's a good place to sleep in.
Can I bank on that?
Yes, you can't get around it.
Well, I've got to run on, I live down by the lake myself—drop in sometime.

Collegiate Definitions
Freshmen are small bodies of humanity entirely surrounded by ignorance.
Sophomores are slight swellings, jutting into seas of sophistication.
Juniors are beings, not large enough to obtain seniority, bounded on two sides by fire-water, on one side by U-Drive-Ems
and on the other side by a Dumbbell.
Co-eds are the archipelagos of college life—insignificant bodies, known as the result of strange discoveries by men.
The Faculty—but why go on.

Father—"How are you getting on in school now?”
Young Son—"Fine. We're learning words of four cylinders now.”

Average Student—"I’m so broke I call money ‘John,’ I'm not familiar enough with it to call it Jack.”

If the college charged tuition by making a man pay for what he learned, some guys would go through college
and make money.

Christenbury says he only likes two kinds of women—those who bob their hair and those who don't.

Fire is pleasing, I sure adore mine;
Righto, brother, but E-gad they shoot a line.
We call ‘em “fire” when they're able to boast of eighteen Junes; why don't we call the one of forty
Septembers—“Embers”?

Monkeys are graceful; how can a fellow go to a dance and believe in evolution?

Methods to prevent so much flunking:
1. Don't have exams.
2. Lower the passing mark.
3. Don't have exams.
4. Leave off Greek, Latin, and Math.
5. Don’t have exams.
6. Have the Profs. spot the students.
7. Add laundry number and size of shoe to grade.
8. Don't have exams.

At Davidson—1925
“They Satisfy,” he said as he bummed a cigarette, lit it, and blew out the smoke.

At Converse—1925
“They Satisfy,” she said as she threw down a College Humor and Whiz Bang and blew out the candle.

At Cornelius—1925
“They Satisfy,” he said as he picked up a can of Mellen’s food and a bottle of Castoria and blew
in his last cent to pay for them.

Fraternities to Build Own Houses Near Hill
Board of Trustees Revise House Rules—Present Hallsto be Vacated

The Davidson fraternities are to have homes of their own. This statement embodies forward movement on the campus at Davidson.
For several years, the chapters here have been hoping for favorable action from the trustees. The first ray of hope
appeared last commencement when permission was given to the chapters to build, but under such adverse conditions that the fraternities
deemed it best to wait until the Board of Trustees should act. At their last meeting, during the closing days
of February, they gave the subject their attention and presented to the chapters at Davidson a plan whereby house dreams
might come true.

Under the new plan, the trustees suggest that the fraternities build on a selected piece of college land, paying to
the college a nominal rental. On the collection of fifty percent of the money, work is to go forward to
completion, the college lending the remaining portion. This proposed home is to be of three rooms and a kitchenette and
not to exceed five thousand dollars in cost. This plan was given as merely the preferred schedule of operations by
the trustees. Should this meet with the disapproval of the interested parties, the trustees suggested and approved the following plan
for a home: The chapter desiring to do so may rent, buy, or build a house with dormitory space for
the entire chapter, excluding freshmen. Dining facilities are to be supplied for the whole chapter. This house is to be
under the supervision of a matron who must be approved by the Executive Committee of Davidson College.

Some of the halls, at present occupied by a number of the fraternities, must be vacated by September 1, 1925,
so it is expected that when school reopens next fall, some of the fraternities will be occupying homes of their
own, realizing dreams of years.

MOFFETT TELLS OF TASK OF CHOOSING LIFE’S WORK

The Volunteer Band held its regular meeting last Sunday morning in the gymnasium. The meeting opened with a short song
service, after which Moffett and Eddington led the house in prayer. Regen conducted the devotional exercises. Moffett was the speaker
for the morning. He chose for his theme, the problem of choosing a life work. He presented the difficulties correctly.
“The only way to choose a life work is to go to our God and ask His guidance and direction,”
says the speaker. “Try to find out what He would have us do and then prepare ourselves for the work.”

After Moffett’s talk, the business of the band was taken up, after which a song was rendered. The band was
dismissed with prayer by Tom Barr.

The Book Lovers Club held their regular meeting last Friday evening at the home of Mrs. J. R. Withers. Dr.
Frazer Hood gave a very delightful lecture on William James, after which a splendid George Washington program was carried out.
The guests of the evening were associate members of the club: Dr. and Mrs. C. R. Harding, Mr. and Mrs.
Yates, Mr. Bailey, and Mrs. Quellin.

DAVIDSON MEN SPEAK AT OLDER BOYS’ CONFERENCE

Dr. C. M. Richards and Harry Price were speakers at a County Older Boys’ Conference held at Rutherfordton Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday. About two hundred boys were present at the conference, which began with a banquet Friday night. Dr. Richards
spoke twice, addressing the boys Saturday afternoon and making the final address on Sunday afternoon. On Saturday morning, Harry Price
made a talk on The High Way and the Low Way.

On Monday, Mrs. Avery Hobbs was called to Charlotte to attend the funeral of her mother. Her friends extend sympathy
in this great bereavement.

JOHNSON’S Barber Shop
The Best in Town
A TRIAL WILL CONVINCE YOU

EMPLOYMENT FOR STUDENTS
THIS IS YOUR OPPORTUNITY

If you intend to work during the summer months, it will pay you to investigate our proposition AT ONCE. This
work is of a religious and educational nature for which you are specially fitted. Students employed by us need have
no further worries concerning finances for the next college year. Our guarantee assures you of a minimum of $300.00 with
the opportunity of earning several times this amount. Many of our student representatives earned from $500.00 to $1,000.00 last summer.
No capital or experience necessary. Write today for full particulars and organization plan.

Universal Book and Bible House
College Department
1010 Arch Street
Philadelphia, Pa.

The Raleigh Cafe
A Refined Dining Room for Particular People
221 West Trade Street
Charlotte

Charlotte Transfer Company
PHONE 298
BAGGAGE AND TAXI SERVICE
JAKE MARTIN, Prop.

Victrolas
Victor Records
Steinway Pianos
Player Pianos and Pianola Reproducing Pianos
Player Piano Rolls

Parker-Gardner Company
CHARLOTTE, N. C.

Furniture, Rugs, Draperies, and Interior Decorations
We Make Designs and Erect Draperies and Carpets for Homes, Lodge Rooms, Society Halls, Etc.
