¥ 4. a wat THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 26, 1925

The Davidsonian
Member of North Carolina Collegiate Press Association
Member of South Collegiate Press Association

FOUNDED BY CLASS OF '15
“The Livest Wire on the Hill”

Published Weekly by the Students of Davidson College
Entered at the Post Office of Davidson as Mail Matter of the Second Class

SUBSCRIPTION RATES: 10 Cents per Copy; $2.50 the College Year
All Articles for Publication must be in the hands of the Managing Editor by 7:00 p.m. Monday. Articles received from
an unknown source will not be published.

CONRAD FREDERICK SMITH Editor-in-Chief
HAROLD D. BURK Business Manager

life. We praise Him for His Mercies and ask His blessing and guidance through another year that would be dark
without His divine presence. In this hurrying and scurrying, work-a-day world of ours, we are prone to forget the real
significance that the day holds for us. In the whirl of pleasures and labors, we seek to amuse ourselves rather
than to deliver thanks to Him, to whom thanks are due. We find excitement in hunting, football games and in
groaning tables rather than in simple thanks and heart-felt praise. On this Thanksgiving day, in the year of our Lord,
one thousand, nine hundred, twenty-five, let us return our humble thanks, and praise to Him, who in the mercy of
His being has preserved us and made this land in which we live a land of plenty and of joy.

EDITORIAL STAFF
W. H. BRANCH Managing Editor
L. D. WHARTON Assistant Managing Editor
P. F. JONES Assistant Managing Editor
WES MILO Athletic Editor
R. B. PARKER Associate Editor
A. Y. BOWIE Associate Editor
A. H. HOLLINGSWORTH Associate Editor
E. S. McMILLAN Humorous Editor
J. B. BELL Alumni Editor
F. K. GAMBLE Exchange Editor

BUSINESS STAFF
HAROLD D. BURK Business Manager
J. M. McELROY Assistant Business Manager
J. M. McELROY Assistant Business Manager
J. M. McELROY Circulation Manager
J. M. McELROY Subscription Manager
J. M. McELROY Assistant Service Department

REPORTERS’ CLUB
G. M. GILLESPIE Pres.
J. F. HOLLINGSWORTH Vice-Pres.
B. MARTIN Sec.-Treas.
C. C. MURCHISON
R. H. ETHERIDGE
W. H. ALLISON
J. P. McKNIGHT
H. M. AUSTIN
J. E. MOORE
F. K. BELK
E. K. REESE
C. L. BRAGAW
H. L. SHELBY
D. M. CALHOUN
J. B. HENDERSON
W. T. COVINGTON
J. B. BELL
W. T. DAVIS
J. G. WHARTON
E. L. DOUGLASS
B. WILSON
F. T. FRANKLIN
C. WITHERS
W. S. GORDON
W. S. WOODS

THANKSGIVING
Since that first bleak day in November, when that sturdy and dauntless little band of pilgrims knelt in humble thanksgiving
to the God who had guided their destinies in this new land, America has thrived and prospered. The years have
been many and long since those inspired and loyal patriots sacrificed their life’s blood to gain a foothold for freedom
in the land that was then a howling wilderness, beset with dangers and fears on every hand. During that interval
of three hundred years, this America of ours, this wonderful land of opportunity and promise, has arisen from an uncharted
waste to a civilized country where every man enjoys the freedom that is promised him in that great human document,
the Constitution of the United States. America’s greatness is heralded among nations; her leaders are recognized among nations for their
grasp upon international problems and their perception into the future where none have trod before. This country holds a unique
place in the annals of those that have achieved. Not by prowess of arms, although the might of the Stars
and Stripes has been felt in every corner of the globe, but in the arts of peace and humanity, has
the United States secured a place in the affairs of the world that has made her a leader among countries.
In the realms of science and of invention, in the arts that have to do with the progress of industry
and commerce, in everything that pertains to human welfare, our land has blazed the way for others to follow. The
lot of man has been made happier since the founding of this country by those intrepid pilgrim fathers. Pain and
suffering have been lessened; humanitarian movements have never been so favored as today. Institutions of learning have prospered beyond the
fond hopes of their promoters. More and more attention is being paid to the cultivation of the higher arts which
improve the aesthetic senses of man. The past year has been filled with blessings of manifold varieties. We have enjoyed
the goodness of God in the free air and blue sky above; the golden sunshine that gives to life its
blessings, has also entered our hearts to make them glad. We have lived lives of freedom beneath the flag that
symbolizes the mightiest country in the world today. We have seen the forces that will, sooner or later, bring about
a fulfillment of those high principles which Woodrow Wilson laid down to a war-stricken world. So, as Thanksgiving day comes
once more to us, let us realize that it is a day of praise and thanksgiving in the fullest sense
of the word. It is a day set apart out of all the days of the year, in which we
glorify our Father above, who gives us our light and our life.

RESOLUTIONS
Davidson College, Davidson, N. C., Nov. 20, 1925.

Greetings:
Whereas; It has pleased Almighty God in His all-wise Providence to remove from our midst on the 13th of November,
1925 our beloved friend and classmate, Frank Reynolds Hudson,

Therefore, Be It Resolved:
First: That the Senior Class of Davidson College extends to his family and friends their most heartfelt sympathy.
Second: That we do cherish and honor his memory as a devoted Christian gentleman and that Davidson has lost an
esteemed and honored son.
Third: That we do deeply feel the loss of one whose life was an example of Christian devotion and fellowship,
and that we bow in humble submission to Him who doeth all things well.
Fourth: That a copy of these resolutions be sent to: The bereaved members of his family, The Chattanooga Times, The
Chattanooga News, The Davidsonian, and be entered on the records of the Senior Class.

Committee,
W. E. MILLER, Chairman.
C. E. HOUSTON.
E. A. O'NEAL.

THE SADNESS OF FAREWELL
When “College Ties” is sung Thursday afternoon a sensation of profound sorrow will choke every Senior as he realizes that
a number of the most gallant football heroes ever to don the Red and Black uniform—and his own classmates—will have
fought their last grim battle for the Alma Mater. And especially to these heroes themselves will the sadness be great;
it means an end of participation in the king of college sports. In the future they can only watch the
battling of the “thin Red line” from the sidelines forced to restrain the old fight which will inevitably rise within
them. And none the less sad will be this denouement because they have covered themselves with glory by forming the
soul of the greatest Wildcat machine in many years.

Short years have passed since we saw them as striplings exhibit the fight which has ever distinguished them. Today as
stalwart men their strength is mightier but the spirit is not nobler—it could not be. There are six varsity men
of ’26 who have played their last. Laden with honor, we give them great praise. Nor would we forget the
men who, for three hard years, strived and failed to “place.” They too are real Wildcats. To all these men
who have sacrificed, without one complaint, high grades, tempting foods, satisfying smokes, and other equally alluring pleasures—to these men who
have daily risked maiming for life which means a blighted career, or who have dared death itself to win for
old Davidson we as Davidson men humbly offer hearts full of praise and admiration. You have played our game, too.
Nor may we forget that eighty-five other Seniors are viewing their last grid game as a body—that their sorrow is
none the less poignant, their loyalty none the less true than that exemplified in their fighting classmates “on the line.”
’Tis a farewell where sadness rules supreme. ’26, your grid day has faded in a sunset of glory. Others must
supplant you. But your sons have done their part. You have consecrated forever six heroes to the noble galaxy of
the Wildcats. Like men we say to the old grid, “Farewell.”

R. B. P. (’26).

As Kin Hubbard would say, “th’ boys git more fun out of this here campus football than anything that’s happened
since th’ barn burnt down.”

MEET MR. GRANGE!
Anyone who has been within hailing distance of a newspaper during the progress of thesePast few weeks will need no
introduction to the phantom flash from the ice-fields of Illinois, Harold Grange, late of the University of Illinois, but now
of the Chicago Bears, Inc. That meteoric flash of human lightning will never again twinkle his tootsies to the tune
of his alma mater’s cheers and songs. For Red has deferred his diploma until his offers and contracts have expired.
Until then, he will fondle the pigskin, the skin he loves to touch more than the sheepskin. Red and a
few lesser satellites plan to barnstorm the country with a professional football team. Instead of toting chunks of ice, he
is going to carry a bushel or more of laurel wreaths to encircle his brow every time he makes a
touchdown. He’s got his proportion of the gate receipts all figured out to a nicety. Tex Rickard has nothing on
Red.

One must confess something of a disappointment at this display of professionalism after such a career at college where the
game was entered into for the love of the sport and nothing else. They say that his father strenuously objected
to this turn of events. Football has remained so long in the ranks of the amateurs that it seems a
shame for it to be commercialized. It is true that many accusations have been made about the policy of colleges
making such a display of football, charging so much for tickets and raising such a ruckus in general. We have
all seen the good and many of the bad effects of professionalism on baseball and boxing. Give us an amateur
contest every time. One where the players carry on for the love of the game and not for any pecuniary
rewards. We certainly hope that this movement of Mr. Grange will not have any appreciable effect in commercializing this sport
that ranks supreme in the heart of the collegian.

A GIFT OF ROSES

The Dartmouth, a daily newspaper published by the University of that name, evidently decided that Davidson was setting some sort
of precedent down in this section of the country. The whole editorial page of a recent copy of that paper
was devoted to a discussion of Davidson, the knowledge and acquaintance being had by means of The Davidsonian. An article
relating to the policy toward Freshman cheering was quoted in full, and numerous excerpts were taken from the news columns
of the paper. The Dartmouth seemed to be well impressed by our efforts here. A suggestion was made that they
call their Freshman team the “Greenies.” Such commendation is enough to gladden the heart of any weary editor. We are
now scanning the pages of the New York Times in an effort to see just when they will begin making
paragons of our journalistic efforts.

“Lend me your ears,” said fond mother as she grabbed the rag and the soap. We are happy that the
Junior class has decided to use the title of Sanity Rare again, as a name for their humorous magazine which
they will publish next Junior Speaking. Who knows but that this will be the forerunner of a regular humorous publication
for Davidson?

Our idea of a conservative gent is the bird who broke out a front tooth so he could use a
straw better.

With Christmas only a month off, everything will be quiet around the campus except the shooting of fire-crackers, torpedoes, and
students.

Minor Chords

IN VAIN

A short twelve-month ago you ruled my heart;
Your frowns, your scorn, disdain and pity clear,
Were powerless to cause me to depart.
It seems no more I held my manhood dear,
For always, ever, did my thoughts return
To wait on you! All vain! All vain!
Again repulse was mine. You sat, you smiled, you did not see my eyes—
How could my hungry heart its need define?
Why, words were poor in pushing such emprise;
There is no way to show the aching hurt
Of heart denied! With time came thought, calm amain:
True mate with me you never could have been,
Because to stoop to me you would not deign.
Thus, I should spend my days in deep chagrin,
That she whom I had chosen, chose not me,
But pitied me! With thought came
—F. T. F.

I tell you how. “‘Lutely Ole Mister Wildcat is mighty proud these days. He can see through the crack of
his cage, the new home that is being built for his royal occupancy. Charlie reports that the cat demurred the
other day concerning the fact that no tile floors and bath were to be installed in the cage.

A news item says that a convict escaped from prison not long ago in the dress of a girl. Well,
if the guards don’t get him, pneumonia will.

A hick town is one where the prominent citizen wears galluses to have a place to rest his thumbs.

Do you want to be a SUCCESS? Do you want to be known as a two-fisted, red-blooded, double-jointed HE-MAN? One
that steps right up and calls everybody SPEEDY? Are YOU game? Throw off your shackles of discontent. Away with the
fetters of bondage. YOU Are The Man, YOU! Don't let another precious moment go by before you read every burning
word of this message that is destined to open new avenues and wealth to you. Do you want to be
a second Rockefeller, or a Henry Ford? Do you want to have your name written in gilt letters on all
the coal-oil cans and the road-lice in the country? YOU CAN DO IT! Our new 376-page book, hot off the
press will. This marvelous masterpiece will go down as the great creation of this great age. It will be a
boon for the man who has waited in vain to hear old Opportunity tapping on the door of his apartment.

Dr. J. Hezekiah Goflunk, the distinguished author, is the world’s greatest authority on being a success. He has traversed the
world over to seek new and different rules which he has incorporated in this cataclysmic, epochal, and transcendental book. Dr.
Goflunk has been educated in the greatest American and Patagonian Universities. He has more degrees than a Fahrenheit thermometer. And
what’s more—he knows his OATS. Do you get that? HE KNOWS HIS OATS! But the best of it all is
that this book is absolutely FREE. We know you think us moronic to make such an offer but we care
not for money, only for the advancement of humanity.

MR. DOWN-AND-OUT, YOU CAN BE A SUCCESS! Never say DIE. Mr. Hank Gooflewhitz, of Crabtree, Iowa, writes us and says
that due to this wonderful book, he became a new man almost overnight. Even while he was taking the book
home from the post-office, he bought an oil well for five dollars which he later sold for a million cash
and a second-hand Ford.

ARE YOU DISCOURAGED? Then read this book on SUCCESS. If you are a man and are unable to face your
daily tasks, you, by all means, need this work of art. If you are a woman and cannot do your
housework, leave Lydia and follow us. If you are a student and you get fired upon in all your classes,
if you have the last trouble with your work, just step right up and get one of our free books,
and YOU CAN DO IT. You can be a SUCCESS!

Do you have trouble in remembering names and faces? Would you know Mr. Addison Sims, of Seattle, if he were
to step right up and call you SPEEDY? Can you make a hole in one on the golf course every
week or two? Are you perfectly at home when you spill the gravy in the lap of your best girl
when you take her to the Greek cafe for dinner? ARE YOU? If you cannot do all these things, you
need to have our book on SUCCESS.

Are you a scrawny weakling with a chest as flat as a Scotchman’s contribution envelope? Are your legs as spindly
as a Louis XIV chair? Is that the insidious thing about it? Do your best friends hate to mention it
to you? You are the ONE that needs the advice and comfort of our BOOK. You can be a superman
in every sense of the word. This book is the sensation of the ages. You can have a copy free
by asking us. Merely send us $3.98, a paltry sum to be sure, to help pay the expenses of packing
and postage. DON’T WAIT. REMEMBER WHERE THERE’S A WILL, THERE'S HEIRS! WRITE at once to—

THE SKINNUM QUICK CO.
1313 Creek Ave.
Bandit, Texas
—C. F. S.
