6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, NOVEMBER 12, 1925

Jack Caldwell, Duke fullback, is getting a good bit of publicity. Weighing around 200 pounds, he is one of the very fastest backs in the state. Twice during the Wake Forest game he spotted Rackley and Ober 15 yards and overtook them on the straightway.

DRAMATIC CLUB PLANS TO GIVE SEVERAL PLAYS

On the night of Tuesday, October 20th, the members of the Dramatic Club held their first meeting of the year. The meeting was a social gathering at which the regular members and all those interested in its activities were present. A number of the young ladies and matrons of the town, who took part in the plays last year, were also in attendance. Fred Smith made the first talk of the evening asking the co-operation of the members. Professor Erwin then made a short talk outlining the plans for the year. He also announced that a one-act play would be given on stunt night. The presentation will be a mystery play, the cast including L. L. Deck, Wood Brown, and Bud Guthery. The play was rehearsed before the club and given its hearty applause. The active members then withdrew to consider the new constitution, which had been drawn up, and accepted it in full. At the close of the meeting, sandwiches and punch were served and a social hour was enjoyed by all those present.

The club, under the direction of Professor Erwin, plans to give two presentations during the year. The first of these will be given on Thanksgiving night after the Duke game. Three one-act plays written by Fred Smith, Wood Brown, and Professor Erwin will be presented. It has been the policy of the club during past years to give plays written by the students themselves in order that any latent talent along this line, which a student may have, may be developed. Since these plays have been exceedingly popular, the same policy will be carried out during the present year. Under the leadership of Fred Smith, as president, and Wood Brown, vice-president, the year will certainly be a successful one. Any member of the student body, who shows talent along this line, will be given a chance to take part in these plays. The members of the Freshman class are especially urged to attend the try-outs when they are held.

Seniors to Adopt Distinctive Garb

The Senior class at a meeting two weeks ago voted to have some class distinctive garb.

Captain Weems Calls Wrestling Men to First Practice Monday

The wrestling room and mats have been put into first-class condition by freshmen and a number of matmen have been working out optionally. Official practice, however, will start next Monday, the 16th, according to an announcement by Captain Weems who will again coach the wrestling team. A splendid schedule has been arranged for the matmen by J. C. Frierson, manager of the team, including besides matches with other colleges in the state, outside matches the biggest of which is one with the Naval Academy about the first of March. The first match will probably be in the middle of January, giving the candidates something over two months in which to train. November 16th will be the earliest date which a Davidson team has started practice and this early start is expected to do a great deal in putting the team in tip-top shape by January.

Four letter men are back from last year’s squad around which Captain Weems expects to build his team, although he says the places are open to the best man, regardless of whether he is a varsity man or not. The men returning who won their “D” last year in wrestling are Captain W. D. Cox, J. C. Frierson, manager, Barrington, and Harry Vance. Freshmen are eligible for places on the varsity team and to represent the school in any meets. Captain Weems is especially anxious for all freshmen as well as other students who are interested in the sport to turn out for the team. The coach says he would like to see several places on the varsity team filled by the yearlings as it would help the team for four years to come. To stimulate Freshman interest in the sport, Captain Weems is offering a beautiful and appropriate medal to the best wrestler in the freshman class. To win this he does not necessarily have to be on the varsity team. The winner will be picked by the wrestling coach, captain, and manager. Since wrestling is recognized as a beneficial development of football men, it is expected that a number of football players will come out for wrestling at the conclusion of the football season.

The boxing class which is being coached by Captain Elkins is expected to be of much help to the wrestling candidates as they will afford each other mutual workouts. If the proper number of candidates turn out and the team

Central Cafeteria on the Square and Brown’s Restaurant 17 S. Tryon St. The Best Places to Eat CHARLOTTE

Victory THEATRE MOORESVILLE, N.C.

N.C. Weekly Programme

Nov. 11-12---Wed. and Thurs. The Red Lilly, with Ramon Novarro, Enid Bennett, Wallace Beery.
Nov. 13-14---Fri. and Sat. Harold Lloyd, in The Freshman, Lloyd’s greatest picture.
Nov. 16-17---Mon. and Tuesday- Locked Doors, a Paramount picture.
Nov. 18-19---Wed. and Thurs.: Great Divide, a Metro-Goldwyn special. Comedy and news reels run with all pictures.

ADMISSION 10-25 cts.

We are beginning to wonder about one-man elevens. Davidson forwards rushed McDowell, N.C. State ace, and the Techmen went down in a glorious defeat. Last year the Wildcats let Lagerstedt of Trinity run wild a while and then the whole Davidson team got together for two touchdowns in the final quarter.

FELLOWS, We serve the best and leave it to our satisfied customers to do the rest. The Sanitary Cafe Mooresville, N.C.

We can show you a complete line of SWEATERS, TROUSERS, HATS AND SHOES. Just received; a new fall shipment of Manhattan Shirts and Pajamas.

THE GLOBE CLOTHING CO. (DAVIDSON’S ONLY CLOTHING STORE)is given the right kind of support, a successful mat season may well be prophesied for the Wildcats.

NEW BUST OF DANTE IS GIVEN TO LIBRARY

The entrance hall of the Library building has been beautified by the presentation of a life-sized bust of Dante. This presentation was made to the college by President Martin at the beginning of the school year. Dr. Martin made the selection of this bust while he was in Italy, during the summer of 1924, and it has been en route from Pisa since that time. The pedestal on which the bust rests is made of green marble, while the face and robes are of Carrara. The face is of white, and the robes are of dark-veined Carrara, a combination often used in Italian statuary. Above the brow are some green laurel leaves that add to the dignity of the face. The bust of Carnegie, that formerly occupied the place of honor that the bust of Dante now graces, has been moved to the upper landing.

The Eumenean Literary Society held its regular meeting on Thursday night of last week with President Sarr in the chair. After the devotional period conducted by Ogden, A. Y. Bowie and Fred Smith each gave a humorous reading. A mock trial followed in which McCravey was tried and convicted on a charge of seducing members of Eu Society that they might attend meetings of Philanthropic Society. At this meeting, officers for the second term were elected as follows: C. F. Smith, president; W. A. Christian, vice-president; Chalmers Davidson, secretary-treasurer; T. C. Barr, critic. These officers are to be installed two weeks from the date of their election. Sparrow was received into the membership of the society at this meeting.

Beauty of Campus

During the past summer, many improvements were made on the campus that are worthy of notice, and at the present time, the campus and the two literary society halls are undergoing some important improvements. On Concord Street, a stone wall has been built around the edge of the campus which not only greatly improves its appearance but also prevents it from washing. The woods behind Chambers have also been cleaned up and thinned out. On the front of the campus, topsoil has been put on the strip next to the street, and it has been fertilized and seeded, and in a short time, it should be in much better condition. The ground in front of Chambers is being prepared for seeding, and it will be done as soon as the weather permits. In front of West and Georgia, the brick wall has been extended, and now runs along part of the road in front of the athletic field. There is a great deal of slope to the ground between Georgia and West and the ground has been washing badly, but two cement retaining walls have been built there to stop the washing of the soil. A chain fence has also been put along the side of the roads on the campus to keep automobiles off the grass.

The improvements on the two literary society halls will be the installation of a complete heating plant for each one. These plants will be large enough to heat not only the two society halls on the upper floors but also the two halls to be built on the lower floors which will be occupied by the Pandenic and Metrophilian Literary Societies. These improvements will contribute a great deal to the comfort of the members and are expected to increase the membership and the attendance at the meetings.

COLLEGE JOURNALISTS (Continued from page 1)

These meetings are thought by all to be very helpful and effective. Here the problems of the journalists are taken up and freely discussed. Among these are means of financing, matters of policy, and other kindred subjects. Mr. J. H. Lineberger, Chairman of the Publications Board, has arranged an attractive array of social festivities for the occasion. This organization is host to the delegates and has planned a banquet for Friday evening which is to be followed by a dance. The Association will attend the Carolina-Davidson football game on Saturday afternoon and will close with a dance on Saturday night.

The officers of the Press Association are: E. G. Moore, of N. C. State, president; W. C. Milton, of Davidson, first vice-president; Eleanor Vanneman, of N. C. C. W., second vice-president; Ruth Efird, of Salem College, secretary; Dixie Hines, of Greensboro College, treasurer.

The Wildcats are always good for a comeback. Take 1920 for instance, Georgia Tech won 66-0, and the next week scattered Wake Forest for a 27-7 victory. Take 1917: V. P. I., State, Georgia Tech, and Navy had won and the Wildcats pulled an iron-man stunt of six straight victories over Virginia Military School, Furman, Auburn, Wake Forest, Wofford, and Clemson, scoring 207 points to opponents' 37 in these games.

Morgan Speir was appointed chairman of the committee to make investigations and report to the class. At a class meeting last week, the report of the committee was heard, and three styles and colors of lumber jackets were presented for the consideration of the class, these garments being shown by students who are campus agents for clothing concerns. After a discussion by the class, none of the articles presented were selected. Speir and his committee are at work, getting in contact with clothing concerns in nearby cities, and will have further reports to make to the class at a future meeting. While the popular sentiment in the class seems to be in favor of having blazers, the class has reached no decision as to the article to be used as the class distinction.

Have you heard the one about the absent-minded professor who put the cat to bed and kicked himself down the stairs?

Speaking of going to bed reminds us of our Pajamas. They’re the “Cat’s Pajamas” alright, but you’ll enjoy sleeping in them yourself. Coat style or middy---V-neck, round-neck, and collar effects. Fabrics of soft, comfortable Nainsook, Soissette, Broadcloth, Madras, or Silk. Colors of White, Tan, Blue, Gray, Helio in solid patterns or combinations. $2.50 to $7.50

MELLON’S CHARLOTTE, N. C.

“EVERYTHING MUSICAL”

PIANOS, PLAYER-PIANOS VICTROLAS RECORDS AND ROLLS OLDEST IN THE STATE

ANDREW MUSIC STORE 213 N. Tryon St. Band instruments of all kinds, stringed instruments MUSIC