6 THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

Famous Student of Political Science Miss Sarah Wambaugh Delivers Learned Address Before Attentive Audience in Shearer Hall

“The Making of a New World,” was the subject of the address delivered last Monday night by Miss Sarah Wambaugh to an unusually large and interested audience at Shearer Hall. Miss Wambaugh dwelt chiefly on the organization and work of the League of Nations and some of the great international problems that have confronted that body. The speaker is quite an authority on Political Science and has gained international prominence by her interest in and constant efforts in behalf of plans for world peace. She is a member of the Secretariat of the League of Nations, three sessions of which she has attended. This has given her an opportunity of coming in contact with the leading diplomats from all over the world, and of becoming intimately acquainted with the problems of the different nations.

Miss Wambaugh began by presenting a graphic picture of the delegates in assembly. They are seated downstairs in alphabetical order, the visitors and spectators looking from the gallery. Fifty-five nations, with the recent admission of the free-state Ireland, are members of this league, and send delegates each year to Geneva, Switzerland, where the league convenes every September. Miss Wambaugh stated that Labor Day was not nearly so important to the American people as the same day was to the peoples of Europe, because they thought of that day as the time when the League would meet again.

A very interesting part of the address was the description of the different embassies and the characters in each. Among these were Macdonald, head of the English delegation, Heriot, head of the French delegation, Benetzch, head of the Czecho-Slovakian delegation, and many others prominent in international affairs. Benetzch, the last named, was probably more responsible than any other one individual for the accomplishments and results of the last session. English and French were the official languages of the assembly. After each speech was made it was translated into the other tongues. Ireland adopted French as its official language in preference to English.

In formulating the points to the Protocol, disarmament and arbitration were the chief points considered. It was agreed that any nation that refused to abide by the decision of the league would automatically become the aggressor. England and France favored granting the league obligatory jurisdiction in all legal matters and also wanted compulsory arbitration. Another point sponsored by a good many countries was the right to make partial treaties among themselves. There was considerable dis-

Davidson Faculty Will be Increased to Care for Large Enrollment

Professors Lilly and Arrowood Accept Offers and Will Arrive For Fall Term

Davidson College will have next year two new professors in addition to the assistant professors whose names have already been given in a previous issue of the Davidsonian. In the English department, Prof. Henry T. Lilly has been called to one of the chairs and he has accepted. He is an A. B. graduate of the class of 1918 and was a very prominent member of the student body. He has received the Master of Arts degree from Princeton University and has also studied a year each in Vienna and Oxford, England. He will have had five years of teaching experience, the last two years in the Presbyterian College of South Carolina.

To fill the Chair of Religious Education and Sociology, Rev. Charles Flinn Arrowood has been called. Dr. Arrowood is also an old Davidson man, graduating with the A. B. degree in the class of 1909. He has also received the B. A. degree from Union Theological Seminary, Richmond; A. M. from Rice Institute, Houston, Texas; and Ph.D. from Cum Laude University of Chicago. He has taught in public schools and Elise High School in North Carolina. For several years he was a pastor in Texas and taught part-time in Rice Institute during two of these years. He was professor in Southwestern Presbyterian College for three years and is again teaching in Rice Institute. Dr. Arrowood comes to Davidson well equipped for good work. Both he and Professor Lilly are sons of the Presbyterian manse and come of the soundest of orthodox parentage.

A SAD MISTAKE

A young soldier had been brought up for insubordination. The Court Martial was about to begin. The old Colonel in charge of the court was not a West Point product, but a graduate of an R. O. T. C. school. “Be seated, gentlemen,” thundered the Colonel. He looked at the boy before him, a handsome youth, whose clean-cut, smil-

Extensive Plans Made for Entertainment of N. C. Press Association

Dr. Frazer Hood to Deliver One of the Principal Addresses to College Writers

When Thursday, Friday and Saturday, April 30, May 1 and 2, roll around, Davidson will be the host for the annual convention of the North Carolina Collegiate Press Association. Practically every college publication in the state, of every nature, will send a representative to this convention. Those planning the entertainment are expecting between 35 and 40 delegates. One question which will come up for discussion during the business sessions will be the admission of the Chowanian, a publication coming from Murfreesboro, N. C., into the association.

Dr. Fraser Hood, of the Davidson faculty, has been asked to make a talk on some phase of psychology in its relation to journalism. Dr. Hood has not as yet announced his subject, but no matter what subject he speaks on, the convention is sure to enjoy a treat. The program committee, of which Ernest Milton, of Davidson, is the convention-college representative, is also planning to have a speaker from Charlotte to address the delegates. Plans for the entertainment of the guests are well under way and it will be done to make the convention's visit to Davidson one of pleasure as well as one of benefit. On Thursday night, April 30, there will be an informal reception, and for Friday night a banquet is being planned. Efforts are also being made to arrange a baseball game for Friday afternoon.

At this convention a vote will be taken as to the best college paper published in North Carolina. At Elon last year The Davidsonian won this honor by an overwhelming vote, and as the paper has improved under able leadership this year, it stands an excellent chance to receive this honor when the ballots are cast again here at Davidson the first day of May. Concluding the convention there will be an election of officers for the ensuing year.

DRAMATIC CLUB PLANS PRESENTATION OF PLAYS

The Davidson Dramatic Club, planning a series of monthly meetings at which one or more original one-act plays will be presented, is inaugurating a new system of dramatic development among the students. The plays will be produced beginning to bud, even as do the leaflets that the winter referred to by A. S. M.

Junior Speaking Ushers in Malady of Dream Fevers

With the advent of the Junior Speaking siesta comes dreams on the part of several of the Davidson students. Dreams, not mental hallucinations, but dreams to carry the heart into fond repose. Most of the boys affected by this far-away and ethereal repose find at the end of their dreams the identical end. Peering into the veil of the future even farther than the eye can see he sees in the distant thoughts of summer and the summer time.

Sam Summers, the tiny tot from Marion Junction in the Alabama state, is chief of these day-dreamers. Since he has been exposed to the course in subconscious psychology, he has not had an easy moment. Dreaming of the days of long ago when he used to feel so big and rough. When he thinks of how he has changed, he cannot help dreaming of times when he can revert once more to the surroundings of his childhood and become his dear one’s little Percival once more.

Another addict of the dreaming craze is Semryl Bryant, midget but powerful cheer-leader of Davidson College. His case is a peculiar one involving many and simultaneous psychological precepts and has so far been unsolved, even by experts. The chief symptom in his case is a constant reverie in which a coy little blonde demands a commandeering role and draws Sem nearer and nearer to his diploma, that is, as far as thoughts can draw him.

Forrest Franklin is dreaming of the path in which he homeward wends his weary way at the end of collegiate activities with the sighing belief that his dreams will be long in their realization. Soon, however, commencement will catch him with his longings too acutely realized and his song will turn to the long and sweetly melodious ballad, “Oh horsie, jumpThat first stump, my turn will come next.” Junior Speaking draws to a realization of the entire student body the fact Hutchinson has come and spring is but a little distance ahead. Plans are on the trees, and within the next six weeks Davidson men will be smilingly and sighingly turning their weary footsteps homeward to rest in ease and plenty away from the gruesome toil of regular classes and extortionate lessons including reviews. Once Junior Speaking features made a deep impression on and presented before audiences, all who knew him or even saw him. “What school are you from?” asked the colonel. The boy told him. “Ah,” replied the colonel, “I am a graduate of the dear old place myself. And tell me, is the old prof who shot so many boys still teaching?” “No,” replied the boy, “he died last year.” A pleased smile crept across the colonel’s face. At last, the ambition of years had been achieved. And yet he was not as happy as he should have been. Why should others have to suffer as he had done? He thought of the R.O.T.C. The long made-up drills. The parades. The target pits. Then he thought of his old company. As a freshman and a sophomore, he had been its pride. He could go from right shoulder to port with only one mistake, from port to order with only two, and he could almost do at ease perfectly. And he had hated it. The boy hated it too. Ah, he would let him off. He had only “horsed” the top sergeant. The colonel thought of the top sergeant in his company, who shouted “Right shoulder arms and come to order as your names are called.” That was a hardboiled Junior. The colonel’s name was C. W. Williams. 

The cast, chosen for the presentation of the play, is as follows:
Smiley Jackson, a clown - S. F. Bryant
Toto, a clown - Ed. Whitlow
Ringmaster - Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld
Louise, a bareback rider - Jean
Smiley's daughter - Mattie Maclemore

All persons interested in writing, staging, or acting in plays are invited to be present. Young women at Newcomb College in New Orleans, according to a writer in Collier’s Weekly, were put through an intelligence test and came off badly. Thereupon they challenged the faculty to a similar test, and it proved to be sweet revenge.

By an overwhelming majority, the students of Amherst College endorsed a resolution asking the authorities to abolish compulsory chapel attendance. The Oxford debating team, after touring the United States, took in the University of Hawaii before proceeding to Australia and New Zealand.

At Northwestern University, a group of co-eds desiring to be different have formed a club with the following motto: “Liberty or Death, Preferably Death.” They believe that love and marriage are degenerating into childish games. Some of the answers from a group of 23 professors were: Al Jolson is a wrestling champion. Filet Mignon is an opera by Puccini. Brilliantine is a preparation that ladies put into their eyes to make them shine. Grover Cleveland Bergdoll was a World War hero. Maraschino was prime minister of Russia before the war. —The Brackety Ack.

Junior Speaking is just around the corner. Every Wildcat is purring for the chance to realize his few hours of freedom—really appreciable hours—and will anticipate the time when liberty is extended for more than five days. And, as usual, they will be ready at the end of that time to come back and tell all fellows hello. Ain't it fine to be thinking of going home? Surely Dreaming Fever is an ever-malady when the sap begins to rise and spring clothes the world in garments of rich green.

The Fighting Wildcats
WILLIAM MINOR GRACEY
Track

When that little Tennessee town, Covington, by the Mississippi, sent to Davidson her son and idol, “Bo-Peep” Gracey, she wasn’t aware that this lad was destined to carve his name in the Wildcat Hall of Fame. But such is life! “Bo-Peep” is here—but be it regretfully added—for his last year. When Fresh Gracey walked out on the track for the first time as green and simple-looking as the rest of them, little did he dream that he would one day be captain of Davidson’s Varsity team—nor did he know that he would ever make the varsity. But he did—and that—his Freshman year. He had made a record for himself in High School, but now, behold! he is hailed as the best all-around track man Davidson College has ever called her son. Gracey is a track team in himself. He throws the javelin, he puts the shot. He jumps the bar, and he vaults the pole. And he excels in all. But in high hurdles, he is best. He held the state record for two years and would probably hold it still had not Fate pointed at him her crooked phalanges. The witnesses of the State Olympic meet in Durham last year will not soon forget this Wildcat, who had lost his right shoe before he had reached the second hurdle, but who finished that race with one foot bare, and hardly one foot behind the winner. Nor will his opponents in the V.P.I. meet last year forget the lad who won three first places, a second, and a tie for second, carrying off the honors of the contest with twenty points. But “Bo-Peep” is more than a great athlete. He has just finished serving a term as president of the Metrophilian Literary Society. He is treasurer of the Senior Class, he is an Omicron Delta Kappa and a member of the Pi Kappa Phi Fraternity. Great things are expected of “Bo-Peep” this season.

Minnesota University now publishes the largest university newspaper in the world, according to reports from that institution, their publication having the largest circulation, greatest amount of college reading, and most substantial advertising of any college daily newspaper on the globe.

This is a terrible supposition, but just suppose that you were to be married tonight and, when you awoke this morning, found that all of your clothing had been stolen. You could just walk into our store and get re-trousseaued in a little of no time—suits, shoes, hats, shirts, ties, socks, pajamas, and even the luggage to carry it in—and when the preacher arrived you'd be “all set” for the wedding. Of course, you’re not going to be married tonight, but this just shows you how complete our stock of men’s things is—and how quick the service.

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP
The Most Convenient For Davidson Men