**The Davidsonian**

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XIII DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., OCTOBER 1, 1925 No. 3

WIN OVER WOFFORD PRECEDES CLASH WITH BAPTISTS

Garrity and Younger Training Elevens for Big Battle in Charlotte Saturday

Wake Forest Gets Off With Decisive Victory Over Carolina—Wildcat Forwards Outweighed Over Ten Pounds Each—Baptists Have Wonder Backs—Both Teams Fast

The eyes of North Carolina football fans are centered this week upon Coach Hank Garrity and Coach Monk Younger as
each primes his eleven for the classic of the day Saturday. The clash on Wearn Field in Charlotte is the
second gridiron battle between Carolina's youthful coaches. But the battle will be quite a different thing from the last between
Davidson and Wake Forest. Those were the days of weakness among both Baptists and Presbyterians, and the 6-0 victory that
Wake Forest rang up in 1923 brought little honor to the Baptist team. However, this year it is another story.
Having smashed the championship hopes of the Tar Heels for the second consecutive year, the Wake Forest crew is sailing
through North Carolina for another championship.

Coach Garrity has sent the veteran Fetzers to the shelf as football coaches, and the people of the state are
today watching him and Younger. Coach Garrity showed the world that he can refill great gaping holes in his line
without injuring his team, for last year his victory over Carolina was by only a single point, while this year
a touchdown was the margin. In Riley and Daniels he has two aggressive ends, while Emmerson at center and Ellerbe
at tackle are among the state’s foremost linesmen. However, it’s not his line that will receive the attention, nor will
it draw the crowd. In the “four horsemen” Coach Garrity has a crew that will bear more watching than any
backfield in the South Atlantic States, for Rackley, Greason, Ober and Karleskint are wonders for speed and drive, while it
was Chackles, long famous on the Asheville High team, who scored against Carolina.

Monk Younger is strengthening his team for the Wake Forest clash by sending Brassy Baker back to tackle, where he
won his berth on the All-State team last year, while Red Grey goes to right guard. The change is necessitated
by the injury of Red Anderson, who has been showing up unusually well at tackle. The Wake Forest team has
not suffered a (Continued on page 3)

Six Fraternities Perfect Definite Plans for Houses

With the serving of notice to those fraternities, which are now occupying halls in Oak and Elm Rows, by the
college, that after the first of the year the college would need these two buildings for other purposes, active plans
have been started towards the building of individual fraternity houses. These four fraternities, Beta Theta Pi, Kappa Alpha, Kappa Sigma,
and Pi Kappa Alpha, have adopted the small house plan which the Board of Trustees has recommended to the fraternities
on the Hill. This provides for the building of houses together on Concord street, near the athletic field, and the
forming of a Fraternity Row. In this way the fraternity life of the college would become centered together, and a
greater feeling of unity and co-operation would be created in these groups.

By adopting the small house plan it means that the fraternities will build only a small house with no sleeping
accommodations. The houses will consist only of a large reception hall, lounging room, kitchenette and meeting room. The members will
not room in their houses but remain in the dormitories on the campus. Two fraternities, the Phi Gamma Delta and
the Sigma Alpha Epsilon, are now oc- (Continued on page 3)

HONORARY FRATERNITY COUNSELORS

The following are the 10 fraternities invited to join the newly organized council of honorary fraternities:
A. H. Hollingsworth
R. B. Parker
J. J. Earnhardt - Gamma Sigma Epsilon
B. E. Miller - Biology Club
C. F. Smith - Delta Pi Kappa
I. R. Club
L. B. Huie - Scabbard and Blade
R. W. Graves - Sigma Pi Sigma
S. W. Brown - Sigma Upsilon

Quips and Cranks Staff Plans Larger Year Book

George Shaddock Chosen to Succeed Kenneth Harris as Head of Art Department

H. L. Shaw, the editor-in-chief of the 1926 Quips and Cranks, announces that the entire staff is already hard at
work, and expects to put out an annual that will surpass any ever published at Davidson. The new year book
will be essentially the same in size, but will be superior in material; also, a radical change will be made
in the cover. Professor Erwin's old classroom in Eu Hall has been turned over to the staff to be used
as headquarters for material. All the work possible will be done here. It is the desire of the staff to
make this book one that is more distinctive, that is a truer characterization of the college life at Davidson, rather
than a portrayal of college life in general. It is to be a printed reproduction of the Wildcat spirit as
it is seen in the different student activities. It is to be the culmination of the year’s work of The
Davidsonian in that it will be the greatest shock from the “livest wire on the hill.” (Continued on page 5)

RACKLEY, WAKE FOREST

Not a small part of the great success of the Wake Forest eleven has been due to the wonderful generalship
of Rackley, as well as his swift dashes around the ends.

Honorary Fraternities Organize Council for Control of Activities

New Council to Eliminate Former Conflicts in Bidding Among Honorary Organizations

The Honorary Fraternity Council, an organization in which the honorary fraternities on the Hill each have a representative, was formed
last week. This council is the same to the honorary fraternities as the Pan-Hellenic Council is to the social fraternities.
Each honorary fraternity that has been invited to be a member of the council has selected a man to be
their representative. This man can represent only one organization. The main purposes of the council are to formulate a practical
meeting schedule for all the organizations; heretofore several of the meetings have conflicted and a man who has been a
member of several of the fraternities has been unable to attend all the meetings. A regular bid day will also
bedecided upon and no fraternity will be allowed to bid before this day. A regular place for meetings will also
be decided upon, and all matters that concern the honorary fraternities mutually will be considered. Davidson College has long felt
the need of an organization such as this, but all attempts to create this council before have failed. R. B.
Parker, R. W. Graves, and L. B. Huie are the men to whom the campus is From the first, the
heartiest endorsement of all concerned has been received. All the organizations that have been invited to join have accepted. Representation
on the council is limited to those organizations which have been asked to join by special invitation. The council plans
to show deference to the Student Council, Davidsonian Staff, and Y. M. C. A. Cabinet, since these organizations, not coming
strictly under the head of honorary fraternities, are prominent on the campus. This council by virtue of its position will
rapidly become a powerful force on the Hill. It is quite an honor both for an organization and an individual
to have a position on this council. The following are the fraternities invited to join and their representatives: Alpha Phi
Epsilon, Roland Parker; Gamma Sigma Epsilon, J. J. Earnhardt; Biology Club, M. E. Miller; Delta Pi Kappa, C. F. Smith;
International Relations Club, J. E. Moore; Omicron Delta Kappa, A. H. Hollingsworth; Philosophy Club, C. E. Houston; Scabbard and Blade,
L. B. Huie; Sigma Pi Sigma, R. W. Graves; Sigma Upsilon, S. W. Browne.

Mrs. B. W. Romefelt and little son are the guests of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Grey for a few
days. Jim Hendrix led the Davidson Wildcats against the Wofford Terriers. Again generalship won a football game, with Dick Grey
besting Fulk, of Wofford, for a break and when the break came he played it for a touchdown and victory.
All in all, Hendrix played the game more like a seasoned quarter than a halfback calling signals.

One Hundred Candidates Try Out for Glee Club
Extensive Southern Tour Planned for Singers in Addition to Special Entertainments

One hundred men, forty upperclassmen and sixty Freshmen, including nineteen of last year, tried out for the Glee Club on
Wednesday evening, September 23. Mrs. R. H. Daughterity, assisted by D. G. Wilson, and C. Barr, took charge of the
try-out. From the 100 aspirants for a place in the club, 46 were retained as likely material. This number is
to be reduced within the week to 40, the quota of members set for the coming season. The club will
be slightly larger than it has been in the past, only 32 having made the trips in 1924-25. Regular practice
will begin about the first of October. Mrs. Coral Baker will again direct the chorus. Mrs. Baker, who is from
Charlotte, has contributed greatly to the success of the organization for the past two years, and the officers feel that
they are fortunate in securing her services. T. C. Barr will have charge (Continued on page 5)

HENDRIX, DAVIDSON
The game Saturday will be a great duel between the two quarters, and according to the work of Hendrix against
Wofford, the duel will be a brainy one. Hendrix Scores Lone Touchdown in 7-0 Victory Over Fighting Terrier Eleven Wildcat
Machine Smashes Wofford Defense After McConnell Recovers Fumble—Terriers Sweep Field Twice But Passes Intercepted—Grey Stars With Vance and Richie Sweeping
around the Wofford right end for a touchdown in the second quarter, to their eighth consecutive victory over the Terriers.
The two teams had exchanged nine punts by a few yards each kick. Hendrix played a seasoned quarter than a
halfback calling signals.

Makes Mistake
Deep in their own territory in the first half the Wofford quarter made the fatal mistake of calling for a
lateral pass, which going wild was scrambled for in vain till Joe McConnell covered it on the Wofford 25-yard line.
Then Hendrix gathered his team for the final plunge to victory. Black made a scanty yard over center, but Grey
clipped off 14 on a reverse play. Then Black hit the line again for a short gain. The master stroke
came when Hendrix faked the same reverse but instead drove through the center of the line for eight yards and
first down on Wofford's one-yard line. The great defensive team that Rip Major has built came to life, stopped the
next two plunges, but was swept off its feet when Hendrix raced around the end for the winning touchdown.

One of the most beautiful plays of the game had preceded all this, when Dick Grey, attempting to punt, missed
the pass, raced back to get the ball and booted it for 53 yards up the field. Later on in
the game Grey pulled a hair-raising play when he snatched a Wofford pass off the hands of several Terriers and
Wildcats. He caught a pass, he steadily booted the ball for long punts, he raced the ends, and once he
stood alone between Wofford and a touchdown. Grey, with Hendrix, vied for honors in the backfield. Following the Davidson touchdown
Wofford made a grand plunge down the field, (Continued on page 8)

Manhood Theme of Forceful Talk by Famous Orator
Bishop Rondthaler, of Winston-Salem, noted divine of the Moravian Church, delivered a highly inspirational address before 300 students and townspeople
at the Y. M. C. A. vesper service Sunday evening. “Character and Manhood” was the theme treated and the thoughts
expressed by the speaker made a profound impression on his hearers as evidenced by the rapt attention throughout. In his
introductory remarks Dr. Rondthaler referred to the search for immortal life that had been conducted by DeSoto in former days,
saying that he found the nearest approach to such life in contact with young men. “Character is the sum of
the ethical traits that go to make up the moral personality. As such it is synonymous with life itself, for
life is expressed in character.” Character was represented as the circle of life, with the virtues that go to make
up the character being points on the circumference of the circle, the crown virtue of character occupying the center of
the circle. “Manhood,” continued the speaker, “is the last reserve of character that one brings into the battle of life.
It is like the great reserve of an army always held in waiting for the (Continued on page 6)
