THEDAVIONIAN

FOR A BETTER DAVIDSON

Vol. XII: DAVIDSON COLLEGE, DAVIDSON, N. C., JANUARY 15, 1925

Charlotte Business Man Makes Stirring Address

Topic Was “Commonest Mistake In Christendom”—Listened to Attentively

WONDERFUL APPEAL

Talked On Doubts and Fears That Come Into Life of Every College Student

In a gripping, shoulder-to-shoulder address at the vesper services on last Sunday, Mr. Tom Glasgow, prominent citizen of Charlotte, spoke
to the Y. M. C. A. on the problem of personal faith, with a few words in opening on the
problems of personal purity. “Every man has to face the problem of personal purity,” he said, and he gave two
points which had most helped him to conquer in the struggle. First, the subconscious memory of the teachings of his
mother; second, the endeavor to build up a sense of justice. “It is not fair to deny your sister, and
your sweetheart, and indulge yourself,” was his interpretation of a sense of justice.

His main topic he classed as “The commonest mistake in Christendom,” the problem of personal faith. He said that errors
in thought have filtered into the pew and pulpit, and gave as an example Harry E. Fosdick, who was a
capable man, but had followed a mistaken line of thought. The speaker told how he, when a college student, had
often wondered, “Is there really a God?” and spoke of the anguish of his uncertainty. He then told a Bible
story of a man’s uncertainty. Nicodemus came and rapped on Jesus’ door; he entered, and he used tact in his
address to Jesus, but He could even read minds, and He knew Nicodemus had not come for that, so He
told him what he had come for. Jesus then told him he could not get what he came for unless
he was born again. This perplexed Nicodemus and he could not understand how a man could be born again; and
Jesus explained that he had a physical body and a spiritual body. Still Nicodemus was uncertain. Jesus told him to
look out of the window, and let the wind blow against his cheek. Then he asked him from whence they
had come. He said that Nicodemus was mistaken, it is not a matter of personal knowledge, but of personal faith.
He told of how the Israelites crossed the Red Sea, cursed God, and His manna, and then of how they
were afflicted. Moses made the serpent and put it on a pole and all who believed were healed.

(Continued on page 5)

Prelims to be Held for the Senior Oratoricals

Twelve Men Have Signified Intention of Contesting For This Coveted Trophy

The preliminary tryouts for Senior Speaking will be held tonight at 7:00 o'clock in the auditorium of Shearer Hall. At
this time four speakers will be chosen to participate in the Senior Speaking Contest at commencement. Approximately 12 Seniors have
signified their intention of entering the preliminaries. Each speaker will present at this time an oration, which will be judged
according to its excellence; consideration being shown for the thought, method, and delivery of each speaker. Five members of the
faculty have been secured to act as judges.

Senior Speaking is an annual event of great interest to the forensically inclined members of the Senior class. The Senior
Speaking Medal, to be given to the winner in the finals during commencement, is highly prized. Along with Junior Speaking,
the finals of which will be held during Junior Speaking in the spring, Senior Speaking affords the only contest of
speaking ability. Both are restricted to one class.

Superior Teamwork and Technique of Wildcats Enable Them To Beat Methodists Twice in Row

Red and Black Machine Comes Back Strong In Final Spurt to Win Friday’s Game 27-25----Excellent Passing and Good Team Work
In Second Game Causes Defeat of Duke, Who Played Hard to Overcome Lead----Spec McConnell Stars With 13 Points to His
Credit

Coach Monk Younger’s Wildcats opened the 1925 inter-collegiate basketball season of North Carolina last week by defeating the Duke University
quint twice in succession—thus establishing the record of having been the last school to win over Trinity College and the
first to defeat the new Duke University.

Friday night's game in Charlotte was remarkable for Davidson—the Wildcats scoring 14 straight points in a final seven-minute rally to
overcome a Duke lead of 12 points, and to win the game by a 27-25 score.

Saturday night the Wildcats started from the first whistle a sharp passing and short shooting attack that smothered the Methodists
under a 39-22 score. The game was played before a crowd that packed the alumni gymnasium beyond its capacity. Only
once throughout the game were the visitors able to rally—that at the beginning of the second half, and went on
a scoring rampage, piling up 16 consecutive points in a great burst of speed.

Many players contributed to the comeback, but Spec McConnell probably shone more brilliantly throughout the two contests than any other
player. In the first half of Friday's game when the Davidson team was being thoroughly drubbed by the Duke team,
McConnell’s playing was great as on both offense and defense he was the leader of the Davidson quint. His passing
was a great factor in the final rally which brought victory.

Price and Patterson to Attend Mission Meeting

Five Thousand Will Attend One of Greatest Christian Conferences Ever Held In U. S.

Harry B. Price, president of the Davidson College Y. M. C. A., by vote of the student body has been
selected as representative to the foreign missions convention which will convene in Washington, D. C., January 28. Norman G. Patterson
possibly will also attend. If he does he will be sent by the Volunteer Band.

The foreign missions convention has been called together upon the united efforts of the foreign mission boards and societies of
Canada and of the United States. The chairman, James L. Barton, in his official announcement states “the primary purpose of
this convention is for the information and inspiration of the churches of Canada and the United States. It will be
an educational, not a deliberative or legislative assembly. It will not deal with questions and problems of administration on the
mission field. The addresses, to be given by the best speakers, will be for the information and inspiration of the
churches.”

(Continued on page 5)

Mid-Winter Edition Magazine Promises To be a Lively One

The Davidson College Magazine, which will come from the press on March 1, will be a much larger issue than
has ever been published before. Short stories, poetry and essays, with other miscellaneous articles, will make up the literary part
of this magazine. The Davidson College Magazine will go to the press on the first of February. This issue will
be the only issue for the year and will accordingly be the largest issue ever published. It will be composed
of 200 pages, 78 of which will be taken up with literary work. It is the ambition of the staff
to make the quality of this magazine the very best possible. The professors of the English department are co-operating with
the members of the staff in securing short stories, poems and other articles from the various English classes.

The staff requests that all students, desiring to contribute articles to the magazine, turn their articles over to the editors
of the departments to which they are desirous of contributing articles. The editors of the various departments are as follows:
Al Simpson, short story; Benton Wharton, essay and miscellaneous; R. W. Walker, humorous department. The business manager with his staff
of assistants is preparing an extensive campaign for advertising. This work will necessarily be very heavy, in order to meet
the expense of such a large issue.

Last year Trinity tried to get one scheduled for their new gymnasium. If Duke wouldn't like to have one this
year, State might be willing to put one on in their new building. And that gymnasium—one of the finest in
the state—is named in honor of a former Davidson student and athlete, Frank Thompson, who made a great name at
Davidson for a couple of years.Victory to Davidson. Saturday night, with better support from his teammates, he played both teams
with 13 points.

Friday's Game

After trailing the Durham lads throughout the first period in a miserable game, the Wildcat team started the second half
with the score 15-7 against them. Duke throughout the entire first period played rings around Coach Younger’s men and save
for the work of McConnell and Boggs on the defense the Davidson team did not show up well at all.

With Duke leading, 25-13, the Wildcats started one of the greatest comebacks ever pulled on a basketball court, as in
the last seven minutes Davidson scored 14 straight points. The change came when Andy Hewlett and Laird were injected into
the game. With great dash and speed Hewlett started the Wildcats into a splurge of passing and floor work that
bewildered the over-confident Methodists. With every man on the Davidson quint passing nigh-perfectly, Hewlett scored four points. McConnell, playing a
game only excelled the following night, scored two more. Then the team began feeding the ball to Anderson, who looped
three straight into the basket to tie the score and then won the game with a difficult shot. The small
crowd which had gathered in the auditorium went wild, the sharp report of the final gun soon bringing them to
their feet with a mad outburst of joy.

Captain Boggs played his usual steady game with frequent exhibitions of great dribbling. Ed Bullock led the Duke team well,
showing nice caging ability and fast floor work. The line-up and scoring follow:

Davidson. Position. Duke.
Staley (3) - Bullock (8) Right forward
Beall (2) - Graham (1) Left forward

(Continued on page 6)

The Wildcats, however, stopped this. The Wildcat stars in the two games were his greatest game, leading the scoring of
Coach Tilson Plans to Develop Fast Track Team. Schedule for Season Announced by Manager Patton — Meet With Virginia Tech
Last of March.

With some 12 or 15 men already in fairly good condition for the Wildcats’ first running, jumping and throwing bee
with Virginia Polytechnic Institute, and with a large turnout of aspirants for the team, Coach Tex Tilson expects to develop
a good track and field organization at Davidson this year.

There are several letter men from last year’s squad around whom this year’s team will be built. These men are
Captain Gracey, better known as “the track team,” on account of his remarkably successful participation in three or four events
per meet. He is a hurdler of no mean ability and also takes part in the field events—shot put, javelin,
and pole vault. Then there is “Red” Anderson, who is expected to reach his prime this year. Red is exceptionally
good in the javelin throw and the pole vault. The other two letter men who will grace the cinder path
with their presence this year are Jim (Continued on page 6).

Literary Societies Inaugurate a New System of Medals

Much interest is being taken among the members of the literary societies with regard to the new system of awarding
prizes and medals which is now being considered. For some time past there has been a feeling in the minds
of various members that something should be done to create more spirit for the contests and make the prizes worth
the putting forth of more effort and work on the part of the contestants.

Sometime before the Christmas holidays the forensic council, composed of inter-society members, and the Alpha Phi Epsilon debating fraternity held
a joint meeting and drew up a set of resolutions covering this idea. These were in turn passed on to
the four literary societies to be discussed and acted upon. The Eumenean society has accepted the resolutions and it is
hoped that the others will accept them this week.

The main idea is to have a few medals worth contesting for, instead of the many medals now offered by
each society, and for which very few men strive. The new awards will be of a new design, not yet
selected. The new system will not affect in any way the events already held, only those in the future. It
is planned to abolish the Fresh-Soph declamation contest and substitute a Freshman declamation event, each society picking two men to
represent it. Only one medal will be given jointly by all societies.

Instead of four medals as now, only one Fresh-Soph debater’s medal will be awarded. This will go to the best
speaker in the finals. This not only places a premium upon good debating but also upon the team work ability
of this speaker, since he must have good partners to win. The same method will be followed in awarding the
medal to the Junior-Senior debaters.

An essayist medal, open to any member of any society, is also to be given. A com- (Continued on page
5).

Resolutions Passed By Students Thanking Duke

Committee Appointed By Hendrix Drafts Resolutions for Student Body. MUNIFICENT GIFT. Student Body Appreciates Greatly the Charitable Spirit Which Prompted
This Gift.

The Davidson student body unanimously passed resolutions thanking Mr. J. B. Duke, of Charlotte, for his gift to this institution.
A committee was appointed by J. M. Hendrix, president of the student body, and the resolutions drawn up by them
were adopted as read, just before the Christmas recess.

Davidson will receive five per cent of the income of $40,000,000 after 20 per cent has reverted into the principal,
and this amount will range between $75,000 and $100,000 each year, increasing as the years pass and fluctuating according to
the prosperity of the Duke interests each year. This income will prove a great benefit to Davidson, whose net income
from endowment at the present time is but $37,500. This will give the institution three times as much operating capital
as heretofore, and will enable Davidson to add new faculty members and increase facilities for work and housing of students.
The resolutions adopted follow:

Resolutions

Whereas, Mr. James Buchanan Duke in his bequest of $40,000,000 to charitable and educational institutions in the Carolinas, has set
aside a liberal portion of this sum for the needs and uses of Davidson College; therefore be it resolved:

First. That the student body of Davidson College heartily commend the charitable and benevolent spirit which prompted Mr. Duke to
aid the cause of education.

Second. That the student body of Davidson College extends its thanks and deepest appreciation to Mr. Duke for the income
from this bequest which shall accrue to Davidson College.

Third. That the student body of Davidson College calls upon all alumni of the college, and upon all friends, to
join with it in an expression of gratitude to the donor of this munificent gift which is destined to play
a great part in the upbuilding of charitable and educational institutions in the Carolinas.

Fourth. That a copy of these resolutions be sent to Mr. Duke, the papers of the state, (Continued on page
6).

Mr. Williams Given Good Advice in His Address

Reads Impressive Selection at End of Speech—Minister Must Be In Sympathy With Others

In an interesting and instructive talk before the Ministerial Band last Sunday afternoon, Mr. J. P. Williams, secretary of the
Y.M.C.A., used as his theme “The Viewpoint of the Minister in Regard to the Business Man.”

In his statements concerning the importance of the business man in the church, Mr. Williams said that the Southern Presbyterian
Church controls the wealth of the South in that it possesses more wealth per capita than any other church. The
increase of wealth in the last few years was noted, but the increase of wealth in the next 50 years
is not to be compared with that of the past 50 years, he predicted.

Mr. Williams continued his address by saying that there are two things that the minister must have. First, he must
have a complete and accurate knowledge of his message, and then he must know the people to whom the message
goes. In the average congregation there are generally a few men (Continued on page 5).
