THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 23, 1925

Church Leaders Express Pleasure Over Removal of Columbia Seminary

Dr. Gillespie Tells Opinions of Church Leaders Over Removal of Seminary Asset for Atlanta

Dr. Richard P. Gillespie, recent visitor and speaker at Davidson, when interviewed relative to the removal of Columbia Theological Seminary from Columbia to Atlanta, gave out the following opinions of various church leaders and prominent educators. Numerous Davidson students interested in the Seminary will find many items of peculiar interest in these views.

“It has been decided to move Columbia Theological Seminary to Atlanta if Atlanta will make an adequate response. Columbia Theological Seminary has a whole history, extending over nearly a century, and is a great spiritual force. It can be made one of the greatest theological seminaries in this country. Spiritually, intellectually and financially Columbia Theological Seminary will be a fine asset for Atlanta. It is seldom that such an opportunity comes to a city.”—Dr. Walter L. Lingle, president, The Assembly Training School.

“I admired its faculty and was proud of its past achievements.”—Dr. J. R. McCain, president, Agnes Scott College.

“Columbia Seminary is a renowned, historic school with a record of one hundred years of unsurpassed service. To build such an institution into Atlanta's life will enhance its glory and power in manifold ways.”—Rev. Thornton Whaling, D.D., Moderator of the General Assembly.

“I need not tell you with how much interest I have read the accounts of the marvelous future of usefulness that seems to await Columbia Seminary in such a Southern center as Atlanta.”—Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president, Washington & Lee University.

“Located at Atlanta, Columbia Seminary will occupy a strategic position with reference to the very heart and center of the territory served by the Southern Presbyterian Church.”—Dr. W. M. McPheeters, Columbia Theological Seminary.

“Atlanta is more than the capital of Georgia. It is the natural and logical capital of the Southeast. It is rapidly becoming the cultural capital of this entire section. The bringing of Columbia Seminary to Atlanta will place that institution in the best possible position to serve this section of our nation. It will strengthen the spiritual and religious life of our entire community and the territory of which it is soon to be the cultural and spiritual as well as the commercial capital.”—Rev. Ben. R. Lacy, D.D., pastor Central Presbyterian Church, Atlanta.

“I am deeply concerned to see the Columbia Theological Seminary moved to Atlanta, not only because of what its coming will mean to this city, and this great southeastern section, but because of what its location here will mean to the future of the Seminary and its service to the Kingdom of God. I believe the move is providential and the place strategic. I am convinced its location in Atlanta will prove the means of recruiting a large number of splendid men for the ministry.”—Rev. Richard Orme Flinn, D.D., pastor North Avenue Presbyterian Church.

“This institution, enriched by so many great yesterdays, planted in the fertile soil of the Atlanta spirit and surrounded by a section as good as the best that Dixie has to offer, will enter upon a service for the public good compared with which the success of the past will be but fractional.”—Rev. A. E. Driggers, pastor Inman Park Presbyterian Church, Atlanta.

“I consider Columbia Seminary the powerhouse of Presbyterianism in the South.”—Rev. J. R. Williams, pastor East Point Presbyterian Church, Atlanta.

“The graduates of Columbia Seminary will gain much from a great Presbyterian center like Atlanta. They will have an experience in the various church work here that will add to scholastic equipment the power of vision, enthusiasm, and assurance in work. The fruits of such practical training will be evident whether in the city or the country pastorate.”—Rev. John W. Good, Ph.D., professor of English in Agnes Scott College.

“I believe we need a centrally located seminary to train efficient ministers and missionaries, because the way is now open to help God answer the prayers we have been praying: ‘Thrust forth labourers into the harvest.’”—Rev. Geo. W. Sheffer, pastor Moore Memorial Presbyterian Church, Atlanta—Adv.

Dr. Richard T. Gillespie, president of the Seminary, spoke four times at Davidson last Sunday. He announced that he would be glad to correspond with anyone concerning the Seminary.

Spanish Club to Enact Interesting Bull Fight

Queens and Davidson Will Delineate Spanish Customs of Both Continents

The evening of May the 1st the students of Spanish in Queens College and Davidson College will stage in Shearer Hall the second annual “Spanish Night.” The program is planned to depict the characteristic customs of Spain and Spanish-America and includes features in the songs, dances, and “fiestas” of the Latin people. The outstanding number to be presented by the members of the Davidson Spanish Club is a “true and natural representation of the Spanish bullfight.” Few details have been divulged by Prof. F. L. Blythe, who is in charge of the “Corrida de Toros,” but from what has leaked out a magnificent spectacle can be expected. This act gives promise of uproarious edification for all those interested in the ancient sport.

Two farces, adapted from the 16th century originals by Dr. F. K. Fleagle, are to form another part of the program, acted in by students in the Spanish department of Davidson College. The students will also form a chorus to sing the old songs of Spain and the new songs of America done into Spanish, literally “jazz” Latinized. The College Concert Orchestra will give several numbers.

The part to be taken on the program by the girls from Queens has not been announced. However, the star position of the evening is held open for them and no doubt they will offer something unusual to fill it.

VESPER AUDIENCE HEARS (Continued from page 1)

school teacher. He and a friend had gone to a neighboring church in Kentucky. During the service his friend was called upon to offer prayer. Later, a man came to him, saying that he had been away listening to a man, whom they anticipated getting as a pastor, but he had heard of this man’s prayer, and if he was the man he thought he was, he wanted him. He had gone to see his mother. She had several children, and he didn’t know how much she was paid for teaching, but it was not much, and he knew that she earned every penny which she received, for she poured herself into her efforts. She gave all she had to her pupils, not merely to earn a living for her children, but to make her pupils good Christian citizens. Now several of her pupils had gone out into life, and had made successes, only to look back upon that woman as the one to whom the honor was due. She also had been willing to lose her life. But not merely to lose it; she had lost it for the sake of others, for the sake of Christ, and the Gospel.”

J. M. Appleby led the meeting. Mr. Williams introduced the speaker as the new president of Columbia Seminary, and who is doing so much for the institution, which is to make its home in Atlanta within the next few years. N. G. Patterson, E. K. Regen, and R. W. Oeland led in prayer. W. W. Purdy was at the piano.

STUDENTS SOLICIT FUNDS (Continued from page 1)

operation that exists between the two institutions. Milhous and McIlwaine were nominated as chairman of the drive at Davidson and Milhous was elected. Monday night a meeting was held in Shearer Hall for the appointment of the various captains and officers of the drive. After careful consideration it was decided to put the drive for the Hangchow fund on at the same time. Julian Briggs was elected chairman of the Hangchow drive, Jim Milhous chairman of the Queens drive, and Ernest Milton secretary of the drive. For the captains in the various dormitories, the following men were appointed: Buck Shaw, Rumple; Bill Christian, Watts; Kelso Regen, Georgia; Jim Hendrix, West; John Laws, East, and Hayden Hollingsworth, Barracks.

There will be a meeting at the New Charlotte Hotel, Friday night, for the purpose of deciding results of the drive that was put on Wednesday night.

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM (Continued from page 1)

committee to put on this part of the program. The graduation exercises at 10:30 Wednesday will be the final event. At this time the college medals will be awarded and the class flag lowered.

The Mecklenburg Charlotte Pageant Will Depict Historic Events of Mecklenburg County

President Coolidge Invited to Attend. Big Celebration in Queen City Special Military Day

The Charlotte Chamber of Commerce and Pageant Association are busy making plans for what is generally believed to be the biggest event of its kind ever held in Charlotte, the celebration of the 150th anniversary of the signing of the Mecklenburg Declaration of Independence. The celebration, which will take place at the natural amphitheater of Independence Park, in Charlotte, will last for five days, beginning May 18.

A delegation of Tar Heels headed by Rev. Luther Little, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Charlotte, and Col. T. L. Kirkpatrick, president of the Chamber of Commerce, recently made a trip to Washington for the purpose of extending to President Coolidge a formal invitation to attend the pageant. The President seemed pleased with their speeches and highly commended their efforts and their aims of making this celebration the most spectacular and worth-while one ever held. He was unable, however, to make any definite reply to them, but he promised to consider the proposition thoroughly, and to make an effort to attend.

One day of the five will be set aside as Military Day, the feature of which will be a military parade. A battalion of artillery from Fort Bragg has been engaged for the event, and in case the President comes, the famous ninety-piece military band from Washington will be present. Other smaller bands from other places are also expected. No speeches are to be made on this day but the entire time will be given to the review of military tactics.

The largest crowd ever attending a similar event in Charlotte is expected to witness this historical celebration. People representing various sections of the United States and Canada will be present. Major General Al-Len, who was commander of the 90th division of the A.E.F. in France, who was commander-in-chief of the American troops in Germany, and who has won practically every honor offered for military skill and genius, will be the honored guest of Military Day. An invitation was extended to Davidson to take part in the celebration, but on account of the final exams which are to be held at the same date, it had to be declined.

Wildcats Lose to Jacket Golf Team

In a fairly close and well-played match, the golf team from Georgia Tech defeated the Wildcat linkmen 13-3 at the Charlotte Country Club last Saturday. Spalding and Reaves were the individual stars of the match, both shooting a 75 par for 18 holes. In one of the afternoon games, their morning twosome resulted in a victory for Spalding five up. Whitaker, of the Techmen, played a very consistent game to defeat Milhous, of the locals, in the morning twosome. Whitaker won the first nine holes 2 up, but Milhous came back strong and tied for the second nine holes of the eighteen. Sid Jones had a rather interesting match with Brannon and tied after the first nine holes, which Brannon won 8 up. Jones tied for the second nine holes. Trotter, fighting gamely, lost his match to Farnsworth six up and five to play.

There were two low ball foursomes played by the golfers in the afternoon. One of these was won by Tech and the other by the local boys. The first low ball foursome was played by Spalding and Whitaker, of the Techmen, and Reeves and Milhous, for Davidson. This match resulted in a victory for the locals in which they shot a low ball score of 68, which is four strokes below par for the course. The scores for this foursome follow:

Name Out In Total
Spalding 39 36 75
Whitaker 44 40 84
Reeves 36 39 75
Milhous 42 40 82

The other foursome of the afternoon was played by Farnsworth and Brannon, of Tech, and Trotter and Jones, of Davidson. This match resulted in a victory for the Georgians by a substantial lead which they held at the finish. Although the local golfers' aggregation was whipped rather badly, they fought hard and pushed the Georgia Tech boys for every advantage they took during all the matches, at the same time gaining good experience. Old Sol was smiling down in all his glory Saturday and the weather was almost that of a mid-summer day. There was a fairly large gallery on hand to witness the fray, which was very interesting from the spectators’ standpoint.

Literary Societies

EUMENEAN SOCIETY

After the meeting had been opened by President Purdy and the roll had been called, the usual program was omitted and the election of officers for the coming term was held. For president, Allison, Barr, Bowie, and Smith were nominated. Barr was elected. McCutchen, Williams, Gladney, and Christian were named for vice-president, and McCutchen was elected. For secretary, Duke, Lingle, Daniel, and Davidson were nominated, the result being Duke's election. Bowie and Smith were named for reviewer, and Bowie was elected. Lynch was elected treasurer over Allison and Howard. It was decided by the society to meet next Tuesday to hear the Fresh-Soph debate, the Eumenean team competing with the Philanthropic team.

PHILANTHROPIC SOCIETY

The first regular meeting of the Philanthropic Society, after the holidays, was held at the usual hour on Thursday night, April 16. The subject for debate was, Resolved, That the Isle of Pines Treaty should be ratified. After a very interesting and well-prepared presentation of both sides, the judges announced their decision in favor of the negative. Those on the debate were Gordon and Morris, negative; Houck and Dixon, affirmative. The next thing on the program was an extemporaneous debate on the subject, Resolved, That the Poole Bill should be ratified by the State Legislature. Alexander, arguing the negative side, won out over Baker, of the affirmative. The committee, composed of Barrington, Calhoun, and Currie, made the decision.

Wofford Nine Wins In Close Contest

Last Thursday the Davidson nine failed to continue their march, suffering a defeat by Wofford College, the score being 14 to 5. The game was played on the home field, and the season being well underway, it was hoped that the Wildcat club would tighten up. The game was lost mainly on account of bad hitting and errors by the home team. Coach Monk started the game with Wells pitching. The game was a close one until the fifth inning; at that time the score was five to five. Wells was taken out then and Oden put in. Oden pitched three innings, during which time he allowed seven more men to cross the plate. He was replaced successively by Sappenfield and Kugler, who pitched the last two innings, allowing their opponents two more runs. Thackston, for the Wofford team, pitched an excellent game, fanning almost half the men who faced him. In fact, the whole Wofford team played well, making no errors, while the Davidson team made four. Four home runs were nailed out during the course of the game, Pettigrew getting two and Laird and Roberts getting one apiece. Davidson was outplayed and the Wildcats were forced to bow to the Wofford nine.

The line-up was as follows:

WOFFORD AB R H PO A E
Dixon, ss 4 2 2 2 0 0
Gibson, cf 5 2 2 0 0 0
Smith, 1b 5 2 2 8 0 0
Roberts, 3b 5 2 2 0 0 0
Pettigrew, lf 5 2 2 0 0 0
McDow, c 6 0 1 10 2 0
Thackston, p 5 0 1 0 2 0
Totals 45 14 19 27 14 0

DAVIDSON AB R H PO A E
Glenn, cf 4 1 1 2 0 0
Davis, lf 4 0 0 0 0 0
Covington, 3b 4 0 0 0 0 1
Woodham, 1b 4 0 0 9 1 1
Alford, S., cf-ss 4 2 1 2 0 0
Vance, rf 4 0 1 0 0 0
Laird, lf-cf 4 1 1 0 0 0
Simpson, 2b 4 0 1 4 1 1
Wrenn, c 4 0 1 10 2 0
Wells, p 0 0 0 0 2 0
Oden, p 0 0 0 0 1 0
Sappenfield, p 0 0 0 0 1 0
Kugler, p 0 0 0 0 2 0
McConnell 1 0 0 0 0 0
Totals 31 5 8 27 15 4

Score by innings: R
Wofford 300 203 000—14
Davidson 000 210 020—5

Store and more—an Institution!
Bon Marche
Charlotte, N.C.

DR. D. C. LILLY TO TALK TO “Y” ON NEXT SUNDAY

Speaker from Winston-Salem to Make Talk on Science and Religion

The Y.M.C.A. service for next Sunday will be under the direction of Dr. D. Clay Lilly, pastor of the Reynolda Presbyterian Church of Winston-Salem. Dr. Lilly is quite a distinguished scholar and preacher, has organized and is carrying on the Conference of Christian Theologians and Scientists. He is one of the leading men who have done a great deal in bringing together the factors in science and religion. In the recent conference held at Winston-Salem, there was quite a bit of interest in the questions up for discussion among the foremost authorities on religion, and the Davidson delegation was very much impressed with these and have renewed their efforts to get Dr. Lilly to visit the local Y.M.C.A. There has been quite a bit of talk about science and religion on the campus this year and at last a man has been acquired who is well versed in this line. With the drive for attendance at the “Y” there should be a large number of students at this meeting.

FREIGHT RATE REDUCTION (Continued from page 1)

on the Virginia rate plus basis, that is, rates on freight from Chicago, for example, are made by taking the distance haul rate to Richmond plus the local haul from Virginia to Carolina points. “Basic points are a result of the competition between water transportation and the railroads,” said Governor Morrison. “We have no water competition, hence our rates are hoisted to us from Virginia, on the Virginia city plus basis. Such a system is unsound, absolutely economically and debasing. What are we going to do about it?” Ex-Governor Morrison urged his hearers to support the port terminal question, or some better plan, if the port terminal idea could be proved illogical, in order that actual competition might be brought to bear on the railroads, and the freight rates within the state lowered to their normal level. He urged artificial stimulation to waterways in case the proposed plan would be necessary until they could be placed on a sound economic basis in the matter of earnings. In closing his able discussion of this plan, his plea for state patriotism was renewed. “We are going to set up water competition for the glory and development of the state,” said Governor Morrison. “I do not say that the port terminal bill is the only solution, but I do say study the question and adopt either the port terminal idea or something better that may be substituted. The plan is not the big thing, the question is to give the railroads competition and force our freight rates to normal.”

Colorado University will soon enter into another branch of sports if present plans materialize. Construction of a million-dollar lake, four miles east of Boulder, by the Public Service Company of Boulder, will provide an ideal place for rowing, and if the opportunity can be obtained, and the expenses are not prohibitive, this sport will become a reality in Colorado. The lake is two miles long and a mile wide—Columbia Spectator.

Co-eds at Marquette University have so greatly increased the patronage of the Union House barber shop there that an extra barber was added to the shingling force. To relieve the monotony of bobbing so many heads of hair, the barber has resorted to keeping count of the number of redheads that he shears.—P.C. Blue Stocking.

“Spec” McConnell made a sensational sprint at Columbia last Saturday, to tie for first place.