: THE DAVIDSONIAN, MARCH 26, 1925

ALUMNI NEWS | NOTES

W. (Bob) Miles, class of ‘11, and former “Y" Secretary, is pastor at Auburn, and is in charge of the
Young People’s Conference to be held at Magnolia Beach during June.

Dr. Robert Cannon Sample, ‘11, prominent physician of Hendersonville, N. C., was united in marriage to Miss Laura Beatrice Chandler,
of Maxton, N. C., at a recent date, Dr. E. L. Siler, ‘01, officiating.

The following alumni located in Charlotte attended the Kappa Alpha banquet held there Saturday night, March 21: G. D. Crouch,
‘18; N. Y. Pharr, ‘19; T. W. Hawkins, ‘20; T. D. Sparrow, ‘16; A. C. Wood, '20; R. P. Jamison,
‘22.

PROF. WACHTER PLEASES
(Continued from page 1)

Mrs. Baker was the piano accompanist for Mr. Neal. Her ability as such could have been no better illustrated than
in this performance and her association with the Davidson College Glee Club as director during the past fall. At the
conclusion of Mr. Neal's rendition of Mandalay, Mrs. Baker led the audience in the singing of the chorus of this
popular poem of the English author.

Professor Wachter's readings consisted of Gunga Din, Chant Pagan, The Explorer, Cape Horn Gospel by Masefield, Tomlinson, A Code of
Morals, The Answer, Dedication of Barrack Room Ballads, and two poems of his own writing, The Happy Man and Shakespeare's
Return. He told one interesting incident concerning the latter poem in which a certain member of the Davidson faculty, upon
hearing the poem read, would not be convinced that it was not one of Shakespeare’s own until he had carefully
investigated the works of that author.

Too much cannot be said as to the perfection and delightfulness of Professor Wachter’s impersonations. One was forced to keep
his wits about him lest he fall under the spell of the reader and think himself in the presence of
a British soldier in far India or a British tar rounding Cape Horn. This recital did two things for Davidson's
campus. It aroused in the boys here a higher appreciation of the value and the place in literary history of
the great British poet, Rudyard Kipling, and it made forever permanent the place held by Prof. Carl Wachter in the
hearts and respect of the students here.

On These Cold Days---
GOOD, HOT SANDWICHES
They Satisfy the Appetite
W. G. SHIELDS
DAVIDSON

FIVE YEARS AGO

The Wildcat basketball team dropped the second game of the Carolina trip to the N. C. State quint by the
score of 30-10. Roberts led in the Red and Black scoring, making eight of the ten points. Putting up the
best and fastest game of the trip, the Red and Black team threw a scare into the Carolina camp when
they held the fast university aggregation to a one-point victory. The final score was 22-21, with the Wildcats playing the
better game as the whistle blew.

Dwight Chalmers was elected captain of the 1920 basketball team. As a brilliant student, debater, and a basketball player, he
made a name that will not soon be forgotten.

A dozen men landed berths on the fall honor roll. They were as follows: Seniors, S. H. Askew, D. M.
Chalmers, A. L. Foscue; Juniors, C. K. Brown, J. E. Cassell, W. P. Cunning, J. S. Brown; Sophomores, J. M.
Richards, P. H. McAlpine; Freshmen, D. H. Ogden, R. F. Davidson, I. C. Thames.

Junior Speaking was a joyous jubilee. For the first time, the would-be orators spoke without manuscripts. Davidson was besieged by
a troop of the prettiest and most winsome girls of the South.

Dr. Edward T. Davis gave an interesting lecture in Shearer Hall, his subject being Revolution, Reaction, and Reconstruction. Immediately after
the lecture, a reception was given in his honor at the home of Dr. T. W. Lingle, for the faculty
and representative leaders of the student body.

The Wildcats opened the baseball season by defeating Oak Ridge in two games.

The student body, at its annual election, chose A. L. Currie president for the next year.

Governor T. W. Bickett delivered an inspiring address before an audience of some 500 on the subject “The Standard of
a Man’s Life.” Practically the entire student body, as well as a large portion of the townspeople, were present to
hear the chief executive of North Carolina.

Davidson was defeated in baseball by Carolina, 3-2, and by N. C. State, 2-0. Shephard and Currie pitched great ball.
The team showed decided improvement in batting. The Wildcats came back strong in the Furman game and decisively defeated them
8-1.

Miracle of Revelations is Topic of Interesting Sunday Service at “Y”
Miss McCruer Renders Beautiful Whistling Solos Following Talk By Mr. Lockhart

The “Miracle of Revelations” was the subject of Mr. Malcolm Lockhart’s talk at "Y" Service Sunday evening. “Some people doubt
some miracles of the Bible,” said he in the beginning. “But, I shall talk to you about another kind of
miracle, that of revelation.”

He discussed the subject from three angles: first, the revelation of God in nature; then, the revelation of God in
the Bible; and finally, the revelation in Christ. He said that God made nature for us and in so doing
could have made it very unattractive, but instead, he made it attractive for us. He could have given us things
to eat as he did animals, but he gave us pleasant things, the peach for example, which is very delicious
and luscious. Consider how God reveals himself to us throughout the Bible and in Jesus Christ.

Immediately after his discussion of the revelation of nature, he had Miss McCruer whistle “Listen to the Mocking Bird.” She
whistled very beautifully several other selections during the evening, all of which were very much enjoyed. Jim Pinkney led the
meeting, “Piggy” Martin led the music, and Miss Mary Emma Frazer, of Queens College, accompanied on the piano.

Mr. Lockhart is well-known to all older Davidson students and is remembered as having conducted the recent campaign for the
college. He is now engaged in conducting a similar campaign for Queens.

NICK SAPPENFIELD ELECTED PRESIDENT OF STUDENT BODY
(Continued from page 1)

Christian were the only candidates, resulting in the election of Pinkney, with a total of 300 votes, and Covington, with
240 votes to his credit. Only three members of the rising Sophomore class were nominated for the position of secretary-treasurer.
The first ballot was close, with Melton and Foster leading W. R. Grey. A second ballot was run, and Melton
won with 229 votes, followed by Foster, with 224.

The four winning candidates are all outstanding men.Sappenfield, hailing from the nearby city of Concord, N.C., has distinguished himself in
various lines of campus activity. As an athlete, he has won praise from all who have seen him perform on
the gridiron; and as a campus leader, he has made an enviable record. He is a member of Sigma Pi
Sigma, the leading honorary physics fraternity, and has served as president of his class and as a vice-president of the
student body during the past two years.

Pinkney and Covington have likewise distinguished themselves on the campus. Pinkney, of Beckley, W. Va., is a letterman and was
a member of last year’s football eleven, as well as secretary of the student body and a member of the
Student Council during the past year. Covington, from Raeford, N.C., is just completing a successful administration as president of his
class and has also been a member of the Student Council. Melton, from Decatur, Ga., although just nearing the end
of his first year at Davidson, has made a fine name for himself on the campus, especially as an athlete.
He was a member of the Freshman eleven during the past season and is a leading member of the Freshman
track team.

John W. McAllister, ’19, and Charles W. Angle, ‘18, were on the Hill last weekend. The Wildcats triumphed over their
ancient track rivals by defeating N.C. State, 44-36. Murray was the highest individual scorer.

The Gamma Sigma Epsilon, a chemical fraternity, was organized by Davidson students. Smaller colleges are eligible for chapters. The Fresh-Soph
Debate was won by Eu’s. The track cup was won by the Juniors with a total of 39 points, with
the Fresh in second place with a total of 26 points. The Sophomores rolled up a total of 21 points
while the Seniors amassed only four.

DAVIDSON FRESHMAN INVITATION TRACK MEET (Continued from page 1)

The day was ideal for the event and a good crowd attended. The track was in nice shape.

220-yard dash—Currie, Davidson, first; Ison, Charlotte, second; Niles, Oxford, third; Ford, Charlotte, fourth. Time, 25 1-5 seconds.
440-yard dash—Nisbet, first; McMillan, Davidson fresh, second; O'Neil, Charlotte, third; Floyd, Salisbury, fourth. Time, 57 1-5 seconds.
880-yard run—Fisher, Salisbury, first; Rowe, Charlotte, second; Brown, Charlotte, third; Stigler, Davidson fresh, fourth. Time, 2 minutes, 9 4-5 seconds.
Mile run—Fisher, Salisbury, first; Barclay, Statesville, second; Penn, Davidson fresh, third; Gallagher, Charlotte, fourth. Time, 4 minutes 57 seconds.
120-yard low hurdles—Reed, Charlotte, first; Lochicotte, Charlotte, second; Whittington, Greensboro, third; Frye, Statesville, fourth. Time, 16 seconds.
One mile relay—Davidson fresh, first; Charlotte, second; Salisbury, third; Greensboro, fourth. Time, 3 minutes 50 4-5 seconds.
Pole vault—Duncan, Statesville, and McGeachy, Davidson fresh, tied for first; Hunt, Oxford, third; Jennings, Davidson fresh, fourth. Height, 10 feet.
Shot put—Brewer, Winston-Salem, first; Blackwood, Winston-Salem, second; Melton, Davidson fresh, third; Pickard, Charlotte, fourth. Distance, 38 feet 6 1-4 inches.
Running high jump—Smith, Statesville, first; Goodwin, Greensboro, second; Green, Charlotte, third; Melton, Davidson fresh, fourth. Height, 5 feet 3 inches.
Discus throw—Summerville, Charlotte, first; Blackwood, Winston-Salem, second; Newman, Winston-Salem, third; Goodwin, Greensboro, fourth. Distance, 93 feet 3 1-4 inches.
Running broad jump—Harrison, Davidson fresh, first; Melton, Davidson fresh, second; McNinch, Charlotte, third; Lentz, Winston-Salem, fourth. Distance, 19 feet 4
3-4 inches.
Javelin throw—McNinch, Charlotte, first; Blackwood, Winston-Salem, second; Brown, Greensboro, third; Grey, Davidson fresh, fourth. Distance, 127 feet 1-4 inch.

Oglethorpe Exchanges

A group of 115 members of the Fresh class at Columbia held a banquet in an inn. The members of
the Soph class, finding it out, caused them to change the hour, but the Sophs found this out also, so
the Fresh called on the city police force for protection from the Sophs.—The Columbia Spectator.

Eureka College has a custom strange and interesting. The Senior class buries a fruit cake at the beginning of the
year and unearths it at the end of the year. If any luckily do unearth the cake, a feast follows.
But if the juniors find it before commencement, they fall heir to it.—Crimson and White.

The training committee of Boston University insists that all girls who go in for sports this year must not smoke
and must get at least eight hours of sleep each night. Six infractions of the sleeping rule will be allowed,
but there must be no back-sliding where tobacco is concerned.—Centre College Cento.

In the person of a ten-year-old student, Centre University in Georgia has perhaps the youngest university student in the country.—The
Yellow Jacket.

What does a girl’s wearing a fraternity pin mean? Almost anything according to a recent census taken among co-eds in
a western university. Some declare that you must marry him if you wear his pin; some consider it a measure
of popularity only, and others, who were in the majority, manifested that it depends on “how you look at it.”—Centre
College Cento.

If present plans work out, the University of Oregon will have the honor of participating in the second radio debate
in history, so far as is known, where two broadcasting stations are used and the teams are hundreds of miles
apart.—The Florida Alligator.

The West Virginia University debating team recently returned from a record-breaking tour. In 21 days, 21 states were visited and
the team debated 11 times, losing only two of these contests to Willamette and Brigham Young. The team went to
the Pacific coast through the northern states and returned via the southern route.

CENTRAL HAT SHOP
MILLER’S PRESSING CLUB
Dyeing Dry Cleaning Pressing
Largest and Oldest
8 E. Trade St. CHARLOTTE
Shoe Shine In Connection

EAT AT THE ASTOR LUNCH
SERVICE - THE BEST OF COOKING
Charlotte, N.C.

PREPARE!
4:00 o'clock Sunday afternoon is the most dangerous hour in America. WHY?
McAlister Carson, Manager
Insurance Department
Independence Trust Company
Charlotte, N.C.
