THE DAVIDSONIAN, OCTOBER 29, 1925

Costly Conflagration Consumes Carefully Constructed Castle

The annual fire occurred last Sunday night. The opening bell rang at about nine o'clock. Both teams lined up for
action and in the initial play Captain Deck, the pride of D company, made first down to the fire house.
After some discussion as to the best play to run, Captain Deck, with his usual foresight and wisdom, sent the
chemical truck around the right end of the library to the first, which happened to be a negro house somewhat
to the rear of Louisiana. Some few seconds later, with excellent interference both from the front and rear, the hose
truck crossed the last barbed wire fence that separated it from victory.

At this point, the fire took the offensive and almost swept Captain Deck, et al. from their feet. However, the
day was saved by Squat Laws who entered the fracas as a substitute. Young Laws and his teammates became drenched
with perspiration, but their ardent work turned the tide much to the dampness of innocent spectators. Slave-driver Kuykendall did excellent
work in rounding up the men of C company. Father Time, seeing that both sides were becoming wearied, called a
halt to the hectic struggle and called it a draw because one side gained as much as the other lost.
The many fans would probably have demanded their money back had it not been for the fact that the fire
called forth fire of another kind and from then on the battle was extremely colorful.

The stars of the day were numerous. But all agreed that the most spectacular play was the restoration of a
colored infant by a certain person who was too modest to allow his name to be used as testimony. This
daring young man rushed madly into the engulfing flames and with a punch equal to K. O. (Jack Dempsey) Mauney,
shoved all opposition to the rear. Clasping his objective tightly to his manly breast, he strode from the fiery furnace.
Here the band played “HAIL, THE CONQUERING HERO HAS ARRIVED.”

The date of the next engagement has not yet been announced, but it is whispered here and there that it
will be called early next year. The disassociated Repress was represented quite well. Several action photographs were made, but it
was later discovered that they were suppressed because a Mackilpine boy was insufficiently attired. Later, the entire crowd repaired to
the bar-room above the village and quenched their thirsts upon Coca-Cola and their hunger with hot dogs.

ALWAYS A GOOD SHOW
---AT THE---

VICTORY THEATRE

MOORESVILLE - - - N.C.

Weekly Programme

Oct. 29-30, Thurs. and Fri.---Yolande, with Marion Davies.

Oct. 31, Sat.---Wolves of the Road, with Yakuma Canuth.

Nov. 2-3, Mon. and Tues.---Tomorrow’s Love.

Nov. 4, Wed.---(One night only) Graham Prince and his orchestra, THE HOTTEST THING SINCE THE CHICAGO FIRE.

The musical sensation of the season.

Presentation 7-9 P. M.

The Tushman coming Nov. 13-14.

People Vodvil Specialties

BOSTONIAN SHOES

SHERRILL-WHITE SHOE STORE, Agent

Drop in and look them over
STATESVILLE, N. C.

Overcoats for College Men

To be well dressed, a man doesn’t need the profile of a Barrymore, the bearing of a West Pointer, or
the income of a bank director. Good looks are not necessary as long as a man has good taste. As
far as income goes, many of our best dressed patrons are young men whose allowances must go a long way.
Fashion Park Suits and Overcoats, though very modestly priced, possess the same elements to be found in expensive tailor-made clothes,
style that is clean-cut and well-mannered, fabrics of pure texture and pleasing patterns, tailoring that is perfect in every particular.

If you wear Fashion Park Clothes, you are a well-dressed man.

MEN’S SECTION
STREET FLOOR

JIM HENDRIX

Davidson, Quarterback

Hendrix’s return to Davidson for another year of football was a great feature of a fine team that Coach Younger
has produced.

ALHAMBRA THEATRE

MONDAY
TUESDAY
NOVEMBER 2-3
CECIL B. DE MILLE’S Masterpiece
“The Ten Commandments”

H. L. SHAW

IMPERIAL

MON., TUES., WED.

GLORIA SWANSON
---IN---
“THE COAST OF FOLLY”
A Paramount Picture

THUR., FRI., SAT.

NORMA SHEARER
LON CHANEY
In “The Tower of Lies”

FELLOWS!

We spare no pains in our efforts to serve the best.

We take pleasure in soliciting banquets and those “college feeds.”

See our managers for information and prices.

The Maxwell-Chambers Hotel

MANAGERS
H. D. BURKE
F. R. HUDSON

Free parking space for 15,000 cars at the Speedway Grounds.

Tickets on Sale at Crayton Motor Co., Davidson, N. C.
