THE DAVIDSONIAN, APRIL 30, 1925

Baker and Sappenfield Go to Annual Conclave

Two Student Body Officers at Florida Convention—Baker Speaks on Athletics

N. E. Sappenfield and T. S. Baker, President and Vice-President of the Student Body, attended the annual convention of the Southern Federation of College Students held at the University of Florida on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday of last week in Gainesville, Fla. All of the leading colleges and universities of the South are represented in this association.

The Federation was formed with the intention of following a definite program, taking up the many and varied problems which arise in every college, to find out how these problems are handled at other schools, and to generally foster better and closer feeling among the schools of the South. Each year a schedule of the most important problems of the past year is mapped out and followed. Every representative brings up the problems most prominent in his particular school and the other delegates tell how this problem is met and controlled at their schools. In this way, an insight of the control and government of other schools is obtained that could be had in no other way. Baker spoke to the convention Saturday morning on the subject of “Athletics.” In his talk, he denounced the evil of paid college athletics.

These problems cover every phase of college and university life and the discussions cover such problems as Student Government, Athletics, Religious Life on the Campus, The Control of the Freshman, The Honor System, The Promotion of School Spirit, Student Publications, Social Side of College Life, and all other propositions of interest to students everywhere.

Davidson entered the Federation last year and at last year’s convention, which was held at the University of North Carolina, was represented by A. M. Hillhouse, President of last year’s student body, and J. M. Hendrix, President of the student body this year. During the past year, the Federation was headed by Tom Baklentine, of the University of Kentucky. C. F. Hoey of N. C. State was vice-president and V. V. Morton of V. P. I. was secretary-treasurer. As the delegates to this year’s convention have not returned, the officers for the coming year and a full report on the meeting cannot be obtained. Sappenfield and Baker left for the convention on Wednesday of last week and are expected back either Tuesday or Wednesday of this week.

WILDCAT ORATORS VICTORS
(Continued from page 1)

B. U. Ratchford ably maintained that the court should not have this power for a number of potent reasons. His argument was a vital factor in his team’s victory. D. D. Edmunds of P. C. continued his first colleague’s assault on the affirmative’s plan and strikingly pointed out various defects in the affirmative thesis. H. L. Shaw, in his customary brilliant style, skillfully showed the practicableness of the affirmative proposition and concluded the main arguments for the Wildcats with a powerful resume of the affirmative’s points of proof. J. D. McInnis, with telling force, pointed out further dangers in the opponents’ proposition and ended the negative proof with an able summary of his team’s arguments.

The rejoinders for both teams were sharp, pithy, and keen. Each speaker in turn caught the interest and sympathy of the audience. Both teams exhibited the same admirable fight so characteristic of the athletic heroes of both institutions. Probably a more thorough knowledge of the subject and a more subtle coherent system of argument won the decisive triumph for the Wildcats. This victory gives the Wildcats an even break in the forensic platform of the year, the Davidson debaters having bowed to Emory during the past fall. A keen interest is being manifested in the outcome of the Wake Forest-Davidson struggle next Friday evening when these two teams meet at Queens College, in Charlotte, as it will break this tie and will settle in one way or the other, at least for a year, the friendly rivalry between these two institutions.

This picture shows how the New Chambers will look when completed. The southern unit (right wing) is now under construction.

French Author Talks to Foreign Languages Class

Students in Advanced French Heard Noted Professor and Author On Monday

The Davidson students of advanced French had the opportunity of hearing a noted author and instructor, Prof. A. Vermont, a native Frenchman and teacher of French at Converse College, Spartanburg, give an interesting lecture in his native tongue last Monday in Dr. W. L. Lingle’s classroom. Prof. Vermont spoke three times to well-filled rooms.

The speaker is the author of two of the best-known textbooks of beginners’ French in circulation, “La Belle France” and “Aux Etats Unis,” both of which are used at Davidson for first-year students. Prof. Vermont was introduced by Dr. Lingle in a short talk in French and the Converse professor then spoke for 40 minutes, including topics of a wide range of interest to the students and professors. In the beginning of his talk, he told of the political divisions of France, and spoke to some extent of the wealth and of the present debts of his native land. Prof. Vermont won the admiration of the audience when he touched upon the social life in France and of the conditions in the home of a young lady when a “jeune homme” called. The fair damsel was always ably assisted in entertaining her “beau” by all the members of the family. He said that under no conditions was a young man allowed to have an automobile for his own use, and by saying that he was much in favor of the American way of filling “dates.”

Davidson College and the head of the French department here came into much praise by the speaker in his conclusion, which was in English. He stated that he had for a long time wanted to pay Davidson a visit and at last this desire had been realized. He claimed for Davidson that it was one of the outstanding schools of America and that a school was measured by the men it graduated and that it was here that Davidson excelled. Prof. Vermont, traveling by motor, returned to Spartanburg immediately after his last talk.

STUDENTS GO OVER TOP
(Continued from page 1)

Mr. Malcolm Lockhart, chairman of the drive, concluded the talks for Queens. Speaking for the Hangchow fund, Hayden Hollingsworth outlined the plans for using the money that was to be subscribed. Julian Briggs, student chairman of the Hangchow fund, also talked briefly on the subject. Jim Milhous, student chairman for the Queens campaign, concluded the talks.

Many prominent Charlotte business men aided in the room-to-room canvass the two nights. These men were also prominent in the headquarters work for funds in the campaign. These men worked at the same time the students were soliciting for the Hangchow fund. Some of the students who took an active part in the room-to-room canvass were: Jim Hendrix, Jim Appleby, Buck Shaw, W. T. Covington, W. A. Christian, Harllee Branch, W. R. Sparrow, Ernest Milton, Bob McMillan, John Melton, Chang McIlwaine, W. S. Woods, B. J. Alderman, Malcolm Lockhart, Jr., Charles McIntyre, Willard Keerans, and Colin Murchison.

“Jokes about old maids are in poor form.”Buildings in the southern states will be started as soon as the magnificent new project construction. More than 11,000 people have contributed towards the erection of this building.

South Wing of the New Chambers Building Now Being Rushed to Finish

New Building Will Supply Long-Felt Need for More Classroom Space

After months of untiring labor, the builders have almost completed the first unit, or the south wing, of the new Chambers Building. Construction work on the entire building, which when completed will be one of the most complete buildings in the southern states, will be started as soon as the Board of Trustees sees fit to let contracts for the remaining two units of the magnificent new project.

At the present time, the finishing touches are being added to the new south wing; and college officials are hopeful that at the next meeting of the Board of Trustees in June, official sanction will be given for the completion of the entire building. If this is granted, work will begin immediately on the north wing and central portion, which will contain a modern auditorium, executive offices, professors' studies, and classrooms. The new auditorium, up-to-date in every detail of the equipment, will remedy a need that has long been felt at Davidson.

The present wing, completion of which has been delayed by inclement weather and certain unavoidable delays, will be ready for occupancy by the beginning of the fall term. It is three stories in height and contains twenty classrooms, ten professors' studies, and ten rooms to be used as administration offices. The south wing is complete now with the exception of a few finishing touches that will be placed by the contractors within the next months. Following completion of the actual construction work, the college officials will probably begin work on beautifying the surrounding grounds. The building will be thrown open for inspection by visitors during commencement, although the administration offices will not be moved from the present quarters until after the close of school. The beginning of the fall term will find the south wing fully completed and equipped, and all administrative offices and classrooms centered within its walls.

DELEGATES GATHER HERE

(Continued from page 1)

Friday morning at 9:00, President J. M. Saunders, editor of the Tar Heel, will call the meeting to order. J. M. Hendrix, as president of the Student Body of Davidson, will welcome the delegates, as will C. F. Smith, editor of The Davidsonian, and C. F. Monk, editor of the Davidson College Magazine, on behalf of their respective publications. President J. M. Saunders will make the response and will address the convention on the aims and purposes of the organization. Reports from the member publications will follow.

After a brief recess, the meeting will reconvene at 11:30 a.m. to hear Mr. J. A. Parham speak on “College Students and the Newspaper.” Mr. Parham, the managing editor of the Charlotte Observer, is outstanding among the journalists of this section and as a keen observer of the newspaper's extensive work will bring to the members of the association enlightenment on the perplexing phases of this subject. The remainder of the first day will include a baseball game on Richardson Field in the afternoon and an entertainment by the combined Spanish Clubs of Queens and Davidson Colleges in the evening. As a climax in the evening, a banquet will be given at 9:30 at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel, with the staffs of The Davidsonian and the Davidson College Magazine as hosts.

Continuing the meeting Saturday morning, the delegates will complete the business of the convention. The election of officers for the coming term, a consideration of the application made by the Rutherford College publication, The Chowamon, for membership, and the selection of the leading college newspaper and the leading college magazine are especially important matters to be handled. The past year The Davidsonian was awarded the distinction of being the leading college newspaper in the association, and the Archive of Trinity College, the best magazine. The second address of the convention will be made Saturday morning at 11:30 by Dr. Fraser Hood, Professor of Education and Psychology at Davidson College. He speaks on “The Psychology of the News Item.” Dr. Hood is one of the foremost psychologists in the country. He is also a lecturer, author, and director of various psychological researches. He excels in fields other than education as well. In the application of psychological methods to specialized interests, he finds his particular field. The results of his studies of journalistic psychology will be revealed in this address.

The conclusion of the convention will come with a luncheon given by the Reporters’ Club at the Maxwell Chambers Hotel. Special music will enliven the gathering. The N. C. Press Association has grown rapidly since its organization in 1921. Its membership now numbers 21 publications in 16 colleges of North Carolina. The present officers are: J. M. Saunders, president, Carolina; Ruth Hoyle, secretary, Greensboro; Agnes Efird, treasurer, Queens.

The following are members of the association: The Salemite, Salem College; The Davidsonian, and The Davidson College Magazine, Davidson; The Tar Heel, University of North Carolina; The Guilfordian, Guilford College; The Trinity Chronicle, Duke University; The Technician, North Carolina State College; The Twig, and The Acorn, Meredith College; The Carolinian, and The Coraddi, North Carolina College for Women; The Blues, Queens College; Davenport Weekly, Davenport College; The Message, Greensboro College; The Archive, Duke University; Old Gold and Black, and The Wake Forest Student, Wake Forest College; The Pine Needles, Flora Macdonald College; The Lenoirian, Lenoir-Rhyne College; The Maroon and Gold, Elon College.

At the time the paper went to press, the following had announced their intention of attending: The Salemite, Misses May Hairston and Ruth Efird; The Carolinian, Misses Sam Davis and Eleanor Vannerman; The Chronicle, Messrs. R. E. Long and F. H. Shinn; The Twig, Misses Dorothy McBrayer and Lorene Warrick; The Lenoirian, Messrs. Jacob A. Seaboch and W. Edgar Mauney; The Blues, Misses Ruth Starnes and Ila Hoover; The Acorn, Misses Katie Dial, Elaine Goode, and Margaret Wheeler; The Maroon and Gold, Mr. A. Richardson; The Davidson College Magazine, Messrs. C. F. Monk and R. B. Parker; The Davidsonian, Messrs. C. F. Smith, Harllee Branch, and H. D. Burke.

Mrs. F. W. Hengeveld has returned home after a visit to her parents in Waycross, Ga.

Since 1868

THE HOME OF GOOD SHOES

GOOD SHOES STYLISH SHOES

Every Davidsonian wants to be well shod all the time. Good weather or bad, for stunts or classes, there’s no feeling quite so satisfactory as the feeling that “I look all right.” Gilmer-Moore Shoes assure you of that feeling. Always good looking, always stylish.

GILMER-MOORE CO. CHARLOTTE

SHOES LUGGAGE

Champion Electric Shoe Fixery

Best Shoe Shop in Town

Shoes Repaired While U Wait

W. W. GIBSON, Prop. Davidson, N. C.

SHIRTS OF English Broadcloth $1.75

These are mighty fine shirts, fellows—made of excellent quality English Broadcloth; and they’ll stand many a trip to even a college laundry without being laid up for repairs. They’re cut amply full to ensure comfort; and they’re well made. Made of white only with or without collars.

WE PROMPTLY FILL ALL MAIL ORDERS

NORTON’S BARBER SHOP

The Most Convenient For Davidson Men